乔纳森·米利肯(Jonathan Millican)来自英国北约克郡哈罗盖特(Harrogate)，在剑桥大学上一年级。他觉得自己不是众人想象中那种典型的技术呆子，但是这个刚刚在英国网络安全挑战赛中获得冠军的19岁小伙子，大概很难不让他的剑桥同学们用异样的眼光看他。这场挑战赛虽然名气不大，但却竞争激烈，今年有四千人报名参加，评委从几百个参赛者中挑选出30名选手到英国城市布里斯托(Bristol)参加3月10日的决赛。经过一天的比赛，米利肯在一系列模拟环境中打退了其他黑客的攻击，准确地发现鉴别了电脑病毒，终于得胜而归，他现在可以响当当地称自己为英国最聪明的电脑少年了。而且，也许他还没有意识到，他已经在一场全球博弈中扮演了一个小小的角色。一场争夺互联网未来的意识形态层面的角逐，以及在二十一世纪国家之间如何操控冲突，这些问题和米利肯之间，存在着一条隐隐若现的线索。美国曾是冷战结束后世界上唯一的超级大国，但是它已经越来越注意到中国这个庞然大物的崛起，在网络空间中，中国拥有独特的优势。专家估计中国的"网络斗士"之多，就像美国的工程师一样数不胜数。其中的一些人，曾在政府的支持下，系统性地侵入西方政府和公司的网络系统并从事盗窃活动：盗取国防机密，给电脑系统设置漏洞，扫描能源和供水系统以图发现潜在的薄弱点等等。其规模之大，美英等国家到现在才惊醒，在因此带来的恐慌情绪催动下，正试图在网络上收复失地。巩固西方在网络上的防卫能力的办法之一，就是招募一批电脑专家来保卫那些遭受攻击的系统。这正是英国从2011年起开始举办网络安全挑战赛的原因，米利肯等参赛选手正悄悄地被英国政府的电子侦听中心GCHQ招徕，也是这个原因。在这一场新型的较量中，GCHQ是位于第一线的。互联网爆炸式的发展，以及我们在日常生活中对电脑系统几乎完全的依赖，为许多盗贼、间谍和捣乱者提供了无穷的机会，让他们利用这一平台大肆活动。尽管还未成形，但是针对这些活动的反击已经开始了。《卫报》从英美两国政府中的高级官员、以及在伦敦、华盛顿和旧金山等地的专家和智库那里了解到，西方正在武装自己，准备采取一种远为主动的姿态，对付这一前所未有的问题。这场争夺战中的筹码，一下子变得非常高了。在过去的一年半中，各方正在协同曝光那些日夜不断对商业机构和政府部门进行的网络攻击。奥巴马当局估计在被侵入的小型企业中，60%随后破产，价值十多亿美元的知识产权被盗，其中包括一些世界上最大的国防合同承包商的设计蓝图。在英美两国，政府开始将网络争夺置于军事空间中，让那些从事这些攻击的人明白，他们有可能遭受报复。英国的2010年国防战略与安全评审(SDSR)，尽管发表之时备受抨击，但也许会成为网络争夺的历史转折点。这份报告将来自网络的袭击列为最高类"一类"等级，因为英国政府认为这些袭击对国家安全造成了一种真正的威胁。美国方面的动向也是相似的，今年1月17日，美国参谋长联席会议主席马丁·登普西(Martin Dempsey)明显地改变了姿态。在一份长达70页，晦涩难懂、几乎无人关心的文件中，他声称美国准备将网络空间当作军事阵地看待："为了打击干扰敌人，必须在原有的海陆空作战空间之上，加入太空和网络空间中的行动……这对军事力量的投入至关重要。我们可以说，这是过去几十年中最重要、最根本的改变。"军方长期以来一直拥有基本的网络战能力，比如拥有一些可用于干扰信号的设备等，但是那些更为复杂强大的武器却很少被提及，极少被使用，部分原因是在这方面还没有正式的战斗规则。正因为如此，美国军方无法经常投入它所拥有的最具杀伤力的网络武器，这样的例子包括去年西方国家对利比亚发动攻击时，五角大楼曾为奥巴马总统提供了一个选项，可采用针对性网络攻击瘫痪卡扎菲的军事电脑网络。虽然当时白宫决定不发动这一袭击，但是在登普西作战信条公布之后，下次再遇到同样的情形，美国总统、以及美军网络战总司令吉斯·亚历山大(Keith Alexander)将军在采取行动上将会更有把握。美英两地的官员们私下承认，他们已经开发了一系列新型"攻击性"网络战武器，同时还包括这些武器的使用规则。"如果我们知道有人将发动针对我们的网络战，我们将会先发制人"，一名英国政府官员这么说："我们拥有这一能力，我们也会使用这一能力，即使敌人身处海外。"美国国务院现在已经将网络安全列为"外交政策重点"，一些美国政府官员强调："冲突交战的原则同样适用于网络。""如果我们获得了网络攻击事件的关键信息，就有权亮出我们的家伙"，其中一名官员说："什么样的网络攻击可以说达到了临界点？那就是当我们可以得出结论，认为某一网络攻击的目的是故意杀伤生命。"保罗·罗森茨魏希(Paul Rosenzweig)曾在美国国土安全部担任了4年副助理部长，一直到2010年。他对是否会发生单纯的网络战争表示怀疑，并说道："网络战可以成为一场常规战争的一部分。我希望、祈祷、假设他们(中国)和我们一样担心网络战的爆发。"弗兰克·奇卢福(Frank Cillufo)曾在9/11发生之时担任布什总统的国土安全特别助理，他补充道："在网络上，我们现在的情形，就跟2001年9月12日恐怖袭击发生之后的反恐怖机构一样。""我们已经不可能通过建立防火墙来解决问题，这是我得出的结论。我们必须讨论建立攻击能力，这样才能吓退敌人。在未来，我觉得你不可能见到哪一场战争中不带有网络战的成份……这是确定无疑的。"随着对立双方都在构建网络武器，俄罗斯和中国已经呼吁谈判修订新的国际条约，用以管理在网络战争中允许采取的行动。俄罗斯方面倾向于建立一个控制军备竞赛式的协议，去年9月份，俄罗斯和中国正式向联合国提出议案，建议修订一个新的国际条约，对互联网上的行为进行规范。这一议案被英美两国断然拒绝，它们认为军备竞赛控制协议没有约束力，因为几乎不可能确认每个签约国到底拥有什么样的网络武器，电脑病毒当然比核导弹好藏多了。英国外交部还说，这一新的国际条约，不过是俄罗斯和中国在本国控制互联网上言论自由的手段而已。"现在才修订新的正式条约已经太晚了"，一位英国国防部的高层说，"如果我们选择这条道路，要好多年之后才可能出现一些像样的东西，这不过是俄罗斯和中国试图将这一问题束之高阁的借口。"但是其它办法同样是遥不可及，也许还更含糊不清。英国外交大臣威廉·黑格(William Hague)向世界各国呼吁遵守一套网络中的"道路交通法规"，其核心将是尊重国际法、个人隐私和知识产权。要实现这一点，就要求国家之间有着深厚的良好意愿、对现行法律实行统一化，让跨国境执法更为容易。这些对俄罗斯和中国来说是难以接受的，就像它们的提议西方无法接受一样。"现在还没到我所说的网络战的时刻，但是也快了"，互联网安全联盟(Internet Security Alliance)总裁拉里·克林顿(Larry Clinton)说，他任职的组织代表了一批跨国公司，包括许多防务和航空工业中的企业。"我想我们正在看到一场在网络上的军事竞赛。我们平安度过了核武器时代，安然应付了化学武器，如果我们能够安全处理网络战，那就太好了。可是我们完全没有一套处理这一问题的理念，我都不知道这套理念该是什么。我们还没能建立起一套可以让我们应对这一问题的模型。"开发网络武器并建立一套使用这些武器的手段，仅仅是这一复杂的新问题的一部分。尽管政府部门不断遭到攻击，深受黑客侵入之苦的，却是私营企业。知识产权被盗规模之大、以及对脆弱的经济产生的连带反应，正是促使英国将网络攻击定性为威胁国家安全的原因。这一新的定性又迫使政府改变策略，把盗窃也包括在可能触发军事反应的事件中，当然这里的盗窃必须是大规模的。罗森茨魏希估计私营企业控制了美国85-90%的数字基础设施，"我很肯定欧洲也差不多。"虽然很难计算，但是去年由英国的内阁办公厅指派的一项调查估计在2010年英国经济因网络盗窃损失了270亿英镑。而美国在9年前即已经放弃对这一价值进行确切的估算了，当年已知的"网络入侵"事件就已经达到了10万起。华盛顿一家颇有声誉的智库估计这个数字去年大约为1000亿美元。在过去的5年中，美国最大的一些公司花了差不多同样数量的资金来加强它们的网络防卫能力，然而分析家们说这还不足够防止"重大军事损失"，包括隐形、核武器和潜艇技术上的损失，虽然没有一家公司会承认这一点。美国联邦调查局(FBI)执行助理局长肖恩·亨利(Shawn Henry)在不透露任何细节的前提下，确认了军事网络和国防承包商因为黑客入侵而损失严重："这些网络中的大批信息被各种各样的海外政府人物盗走了。"在这一网络间谍活动中，还有一个在某种程度上更令人担忧的侧面。"我们知道俄罗斯和中国已经做了必要的侦察工作，用来建立打击美国关键设施的计划"，一家位于华盛顿的智库、战略与国际研究中心(Centre for Strategic and International Studies)的吉姆·刘易斯(Jim Lewis)这么说道。他在2008年曾接受布什总统指派，为政府撰写了一份网络战略报告，现在仍被认为是同类报告的基准。"我们必须把对关键设施的保护提高到一个新的档次，相信大家也这么认为，因为它们非常易受攻击，还完全没有得到保护。""这话可不是随便编的，我已经做了相当长时间的研究。我们知道有人已经做了侦察，也知道控制系统可以发出摧毁这些关键设施的指令。我们得到了这些信息，却没有在自我保护方面下任何一点工夫……我们已经花了7年时间试图吓退攻击者，却没有取得任何效果。"亨利承认FBI现在每个月要处理几千个新出现的攻击事件，FBI现在已经在63个国家中安排了专门对付网上威胁的工作人员。"我们认识到我们的基础设施存在薄弱点"，他说："每个月在工业界和零售业发生几千起安全措施遭破坏的事例。我们知道一些海外国家拥有强大的入侵能力，也知道哪些信息是他们的目标。"他补充道："曾有敌对势力呆在网络中长达好几个月、有时甚至好几年，都没有被发觉。他们在那些网络中几乎是畅行无阻的……他们可以观察在那些网络中穿行的信息，不仅有能力研究数据，而且还有可能修改数据。他们完全拥有可以干扰破环整个网络的能力。"亨利说网络攻击正变得越来越复杂精密。"防御系统每做一个动作，这些攻击者就随之改变战术。"罗森茨魏希相信这种对能源工厂或是水厂等关键设施进行对应勾画的工作，在美国政府内部被看作是"作战的准备工作"。他说，这是中国在向美国传递信号："不要派第七舰队来救台湾，否则我们会切断洛杉矶的电力供应。"美国方面正在爱达荷国家实验室运行一系列的模拟实验，测试美国一些最重要的电脑网络的稳固性，但这些测试需要花一定时间才能完成。因为事关重大，奥巴马政府正在推行适当的全国范围的监管以及在网络安全方面的标准，虽然这些做法可以迫使私营企业关闭一些可能受到攻击的漏洞，但是政府的这些努力还是受到了私营企业的抵制。三个相互对立的法案目前正在争夺参议院的投票，其中之一是由前总统候选人约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)提出的，他希望能去除政府监管，去除私营公司因网络安全落实不力而被罚款甚至起诉的可能。虽然不同党派有各自的论调，但是没有人质疑存在着一个根本问题，以及这一根本问题的源头在哪里。"两派政党中的重量级人物都在风风火火地奔走"，罗森茨魏希说："两边都说有问题存在。都说这真是一个问题，是一个近在眼前的问题。吉斯·亚历山大将军都说他看到了这一问题，他可不是那种胡编乱造的人。"他认为，到底谁是罪魁祸首是明摆着的。"中国否认发动针对美国的网络战。这是一个无耻的谎言，那种人们因为不愿意面对后果而不敢揭穿的谎言。中国的电脑程序员人数比西方的工程师加起来还多。""不是每个人都是'网络斗士'。但是如果你有一百万个电脑程序员，你就能找出一千个'网路斗士'来。我们也有许多IT专业人士，但他们不是一回事。我们不了解黑客文化。"世界上最独立的网络安全分析家德米特里·艾尔佩洛维奇(Dmitri Alperovitch)补充道："在间谍活动上，中国人很明显不受任何制约。""在美国，不管是私营机构还是政府部门都不允许进行商业间谍活动，中国却不受这个限制。如果谈起数量和规模，没有人能比得上他们。"某些攻击的大胆程度令人震惊。本月早些时候，美国国家航空航天局(NASA)的总监察官保罗·马丁(Paul Martin)透露NASA在加州帕萨迪纳(Pasadena)的喷气推进实验室(JPL)遭遇网络攻击，攻击来源似乎是中国。JPL管理23艘太空船，包括前往金星、土星和火星的太空船，还控制着国际空间站。马丁向美国议会提供的证词实在异乎寻常，他说黑客在JPL"获得了整个系统的控制权"，可以修改、拷贝、删除任何敏感文件，创建新文件，上载黑客工具用来侵入其它NASA系统。总而言之，他们在运行整个网络系统。这不过是去年NASA遭受的47次网络攻击中的一次，其中13次成功地攻入了NASA的防火墙。马丁说有些侵入行动"可能受到外国情报机关的协助，帮助达成他们的国家发展目标。"中国到底能够多么有效地关闭整条能源供给线、或是整座通讯中心，并能维持多久，目前还在辩论之中。拉里·克林顿说这么做不太容易，但是如果你认为中国做不到，那就太愚蠢了。"旧技术一般比新技术安全，铜线就比光纤安全。问题还在于互连程度，现在的网络安全隔离程度已经远远比不上过去了。""你可以进入一个武器系统，却完全不知道系统已经被侵入了，直到你发射了武器，它飞回来砸到你脸上……那些在六年前被认为是复杂精密的攻击现在已经是小儿科了。"如果网络攻击的威胁真的如此巨大，同时又有那么多人相信中国是幕后主使，那为什么美国政府在谴责中国的时候不能更加强硬呢？美国国务院拒绝回答这个问题，甚至拒绝回答是否曾使用过外交手段：通过召见大使或是驱逐外交人员出境等手段来处理这类问题。梅利莎·海瑟韦(Melissa Hathaway)曾是布什总统时期联合网络小组(Joint Interagency Cyber Task Force)的主任，在奥巴马执政第一年还是国家安全委员会(National Security Council)的成员。她认为政府的沉默是可以理解的。"我们要考虑我们的角色，以及世界的经济未来。你认为未来的经济会是什么样子？坦率地说，现在我们都依赖中国。包括我们所有人。""他们买下了许多欧洲的债务，也买下许多美国的债务。目前他们正在帮助推动世界稳定。"美国还在寻求另一条通向中国的道路，以一些智库为媒介，与中国一起参与"网络战争"的游戏。只有这样，五角大楼和美国国务院的代表才有机会和他们的中国对手们坐在一起，表达自己的担忧，聆听对方的疑虑。这些交流活动给人们带来的一个希望是也许这些对话可以在华盛顿和北京之间发展出类似当年"核热线"一样的交流渠道，这样的话，双方的领导人可以相互通话，避免出现不可扭转的局面。终于可以把信息传达到中国了，美国人为此而感到高兴，但是，刘易斯却不相信中国真的在听，他也不相信中国真的会限制其在网络空间的行动。他和中国军方打过多年交道，他说中国人民解放军是"非常带有敌意的"。"他们把美国看作一个打击目标。他们认为自己的所作所为有充分的理由。他们觉得中国一直被不公平地对待，因此有权利扯平。英国和法国曾经烧毁了圆明园，但是他们认为现在美国才是帝国主义的象征，而且它还在走下坡路。
A selection of nine new apps for you today:Kinect Star WarsReleased to promote the Xbox 360 game of the same name, this isn't actually a game. Instead, it gives your Facebook and Twitter feeds a Star Wars rebrand, including the ability to view them in the style of the famous scrolling-text intro sequence.Windows PhoneTransformers: Ruckus ReaderBook-apps publisher Ruckus has relaunched its platform, which now provides parents with updates on how their children are reading and progressing through its apps. Several have been launched using the new platform, including Transformers: Ruckus Reader, which complements its story with a word hunt, mini-games and a make-your-own story page. Other brands getting the treatment includeMy Little Pony,CrayolaandSeaworld.iPadStuff MagazineBritish gadgets magazine Stuff has hit the iOS Newsstand, with an iPad app that charges £2.99 per issue or £23.99 for a year's subscription. The monthly magazine's digital version is bulked out by videos, 360-degree product photos and zoomable picture galleries.iPadGreggs Taste RescuePaging David Cameron! There's now a "Greggs Taste Rescue" app for iPhone, complete with a fake professor diagnosing "how broken your taste is" and prescribing the cure. That cure being, of course, a visit to a nearby shop to buy a pasty or three. The app ties into Greggs' latest online marketing campaign. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the Android version.Android / iPhoneEA BattlelogEA's latest console companion app is Battlelog, which enables players of Battlefield 3 to connect to its social community from their iPhones. Features include "Battle Feed" notifications on game events, messaging with friends, detailed statistics and friend leaderboards.iPhoneSage Record KeeperBusiness software firm Sage has launched an iPhone app to help small businesses and self-employed people keep income and expenditure records easily, to avoid a panic come tax-filing time.iPhoneSnapNPlayThis is clever: an app that takes a photo of sheet music, then plays it. The app can't yet parse "rests, grace notes, and triplets", but as the video below shows, it does a decent job with Amazing Grace.AndroidPolycellDIY brand Polycell has teamed up with Aurasma for an augmented reality app that provides how-to videos when people point their smartphone at Polycell packaging or catalogue images. Better than a simple menu? I'll let you be the judge of that. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadKidfolioBilled as "a social network and digital scrapbook for parents", this is the latest app designed to help them capture and store photos, videos and audio clips of their child growing up, while sharing them with a close social network of family members. Parenting tips are thrown in too.iPhone
Wait, I can explain everything!
It's being billed as the technology trial of the century: Oracle v Google, in which the database giant, a longstanding fixture in Silicon Valley, is trying to persuade a jury that the search giant knew it was misusing intellectual property that belonged to the other for its Android smartphones.The stakes are high for both: if Oracle fails, its control over the Java programming language could be seriously compromised. But if Google is the loser, it could face a billion-dollar payout and licencing fees payable to Oracle on every Android device in future.Even if Google prevails – something which the company says it is confident of – details of its business plan for Android, including revenues, profits and projections, could be laid bare in the court by testimony expected from chief executive Larry Page, who is scheduled to testify in the trial, which is expected to last between eight and 10 weeks. Google has previously evaded close questioning about revenues it earns directly from Android, instead giving approximate suggestions about its total revenues from mobile platforms – which include Apple's iPhone and iPad.Before jury selection started, US district judge William Alsup warned both companies that they should not expect to keep sensitive financial information secret. "This is a public trial," he said.The trial began on Monday with Oracle lawyer Michael Jacobs trying to convince the jury that Google's top executives have long known that they stole a key piece of technology to build the Android software that now powers more than more than 300m smartphones and tablet computers.The unflattering portrait of Google was drawn in the opening phase of a complex trial pitting two of Silicon Valley's powerhouses in a battle delving into the often mind-numbing minutiae of intellectual property and computer coding."We will prove to you from beginning to end … that Google knew it was using someone else's property," Jacobs said near the end of his hour-long opening statement. Google's lawyers will counter with their opening statements on Tuesday.The showdown in a San Francisco federal court centres on Oracle's allegations that Google's Android software infringes on the patents and copyrights of Java, a programming technology that Sun Microsystems began developing 20 years ago. Oracle, a business software maker, acquired the rights to Java when it bought Sun Microsystems for $7.3bn in January 2010.Google has steadfastly denied Oracle's allegations since the lawsuit was filed in August 2010, seven months after the Sun deal closed.The impasse has left it to a 12-member jury to resolve the dispute in a trial. Judge Alsup devoted most of Monday's session to picking the jury, leaving only enough time for Oracle to lay out the framework for its case.Oracle is seeking hundreds of millions of dollars in damages and an injunction that would force Google to pay future licensing fees or find an alternative to Java to keep its Android system running smoothly.At one point in the lawsuit, Oracle estimated it might be owed as much as $6.1bn. But Alsup has whittled the case down in a way that has substantially lowered the size of the potential payout if Google loses.In a sign of how far apart the two sides are, Google last month said it would be willing to pay $2.8m plus a tiny percentage – 0.515% – of its future revenue from Android, if the jury decides Android infringed on two Java patents. Google hasn't publicly estimated what it thinks its liability might be if the jury decides Android violated 37 Java programming copyrights, as alleged by Oracle.The copyright disagreement, the most important point of the case, will be covered in the first phase of the trial and be followed by the patent dispute. If necessary, a third phase will be devoted to how much money Google owes Oracle.Jacobs said Google took copyrighted Java "blueprints" to harness the creative power of millions of Java software developers, so they then could write applications for Android. However, Google never obtained the proper licence, he said."You can't just step on someone's IP because you have a good business reason for it," Jacobs said.Much of the evidence presented during the trial will delve into highly technical fare likely only to appeal to programming geeks and patent-law aficionados. The jurors, selected on Monday, include a retired teacher, a postal worker and a store designer for clothing chain Gap. The seven-woman, five-man jury also includes a retired photographer, an avid hiker and a nurse.While the minutiae may be challenging even for the well-informed, there are expected to be dramatic interludes that lift a veil on the inner workings of two of the world's most influential technology companies.The intrigue will include testimony from the two companies' multibillionaire CEOs, Oracle's Larry Ellison and Google's Page. Oracle indicated on Monday that it could call Ellison to the stand as early as Tuesday.Several other industry luminaries, including former Google chief executive Eric Schmidt and former Sun Microsystems chief executive Jonathan Schwartz, are also on the list of potential witnesses.Jacobs focused much of his opening statement on excerpts in internal emails that suggest Google knew it needed to pay licensing fees to use some of the Java technology that went into Android, a project that began in earnest in 2005 when Google bought the startup company of the same name run by one-time Apple staffer and co-founder of the Danger mobile phone maker Andy Rubin.The first phone running on Android software didn't go on sale until October 2008, about 15 months before Oracle bought Sun Microsystems, after which it stepped up the attempts to make Google pay up for the Java technology.Oracle cited an October 2005 email from Rubin to Page as an early sign that Google realised it probably would have to pay Sun for using Java in Android."My proposal is that we take a licence that specifically grants the right for us to Open Source our product," Rubin wrote. "We'll pay Sun for the licence."Jacobs pointed to a May 2006 email from Schmidt to Rubin as an indication that Google knew it might need to seek other solutions for Android if it couldn't work out an agreement with Sun."How are we doing on the Sun deal?" Schmidt asked in his message. "Its (sic) it time to develop a non-Java solution to avoid dealing with them?"According to Jacobs, a May 2007 email from Rubin to then-CEO Eric Schmidt shows that Google consciously decided against taking a licence. Some spectators in the packed courtroom strained to read the email, displayed alongside photos of Rubin and Schmidt."I'm done with Sun (tail between my legs, you were right)," Rubin wrote to Schmidt. "They won't be happy when we release our stuff."Google's Prosser said Java inventors cheered Android when it was released. But Jacobs told the jury that Sun executives were not happy behind closed doors, regardless of what they said publicly.By August 2010, Google still hadn't been able to find any satisfactory alternatives to Java, according to an email that Google engineer Tim Lindholm sent to Rubin."We have been over a bunch of these, and think they all suck," wrote Lindholm, who worked at Sun Microsystems before joining Google. "We conclude that we need to negotiate a license for Java under the terms we need."The lack of a licensing agreement ultimately didn't deter Google, Jacobs told the jury, because the company realised it needed a mobile software system to preserve its digital search-and-advertising empire as more sophisticated phones enabled more people to surf the Internet while they were away from their desktop computers. Java provided Google with a springboard into mobile computing because 6 million software programmers were already familiar with the technology and could easily create applications that would run on Android, Jacobs said.Although Google doesn't charge device makers to use Android, the company makes money from some of the mobile advertising and mobile applications sold on the system. Page suggested in October 2011 that Google's annual mobile advertising revenue now exceeds $2.5bn, but it hasn't specified how much of that money comes from Android-powered devices.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM said to discuss hiring bank to weigh strategy options &gt;&gt; BloombergResearch In Motion Ltd. (RIM), the troubled maker of the BlackBerry smartphone, is in talks to hire a financial adviser that can help it weigh strategic options, according to three people with knowledge of the matter.RIM is considering hiring one Canadian bank and one global bank, said one of the people, who asked to remain anonymous because the deliberations are private.In the wings, the Fat Lady is doing her vocal warmups.Openwave announces definitive agreement to sell Mediation and Messaging product businesses to Marlin Equity Partners &gt;&gt; OpenwaveA patent troll is born:Openwave's remaining entity will be renamed Unwired Planet, a name that recalls the company's rich heritage of innovation; it will be focused on Intellectual Property and will remain a publicly traded company. Openwave's patent portfolio is comprised of approximately 200 issued US and foreign patents and another approximately 75 pending applications, many of which are considered foundational to mobile communications. Openwave intends to provide further details on its plans for Unwired Planet in conjunction with its third quarter of fiscal 2012 financial results conference call.Nokia Oyj Credit Rating &gt;&gt; Moody'sA short history of Nokia's credit rating, as told by Moody's. In February 2000, it was A1 (top level). The first cut came in April 2009. Now read on...Moody's downgrades Nokia to Baa3/P-3, outlook negative &gt;&gt; Moody'sGiven that the rating outlook is negative, there is currently limited potential for an upgrade of Nokia's ratings. However, a rating upgrade to Baa2 could be triggered by (i) the Windows devices rivaling the market positions of the Android-based leaders, (ii) by group revenues starting to grow again and operating margin (1.0% Moody's adjusted for 2011) reaching high single digit percent, while (iii) maintaining a net cash position (about EUR3.1bn Moody's adjusted per end of 2011). For an outlook stabilization, (i) the Lumia family of devices needs to prove traction by gaining substantial market share and returning the Smart Devices segment to non-IFRS operating profit, (ii) the Mobile Phones segment should at least stabilize its sales volumes and return to a double-digit contribution margin, and (iii) cash consumption fall to marginal levels.Nokia bonds remain at investment grade, but only just. This is the second ratings cut in the past nine months.How much does Wall Street hate Google's stock-split plan? &gt;&gt; AllThingsDOf the plans to create a new class of non-voting "Class C" stock:At least one shareholder advisory firm, Philadelphia-basedEgan-Jones, has come out strongly in opposition to the plan. "We strongly oppose governance structures, such as currently exists at Google and as proposed, in which the holders of one class of common stock have voting rights with fewer votes per share," the firm said.Also on the record in opposition? CalSTRS, the $145 billion California State Teachers' Retirement System, which owns $400 million worth of Google shares,told Reutersthat it's not happy about the proposal and intends to let Google know about it.But Google's founders and Eric Schmidt own two-thirds of the voting stock, so that's that.Sabpab, new Mac OS X backdoor Trojan horse discovered &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityIt's time for Mac users to wake up and smell the coffee. Mac malware is becoming a genuine issue, and cannot be ignored any longer.Sophos products, including our free Mac anti-virus for home users, detect the Trojan horse as OSX/Sabpab-A.Of course, those users who had already protected their computers with Sophos products were already defended against the Java vulnerability.Sounds like a copycat attempt which is unlikely to catch many people unawares - though of course for anyone hit by it, it will be a problem. What's not said is how prevalent this exploit is, how it's being spread, or which websites (or sorts of websites) it's been found on. This is the dangerous point where antivirus threat turns into "security theatre", and every wannabe hacker's virus kit output becomes a reason to be worried.New version of Sabpab Mac Trojan emerges, spread via Word documents &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityOh joy:A new version of the Mac OS X Sabpab Trojan horse has come to light, and rather than relying upon a Java vulnerability - it appears to be exploiting malformed Word documents instead.Disabled Java.. Flash.. Word.. web..Google CEO Larry Page is "excited" - but how much, exactly? &gt;&gt; AllThingsDHaving noticed the Google CEO's fondness for using variations of "exciting" and "excited" when discussing his company's products and businesses, we at AllThingsD had a bit of fun with the transcripts from his recent earnings calls.Since Page reassumed the CEO role last year, he hit an all-time high of 16 mentions of "excited" on last year's third-quarter call. His company's performance made him both "incredibly excited" and "amazingly excited."Awesome.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The window of opportunity is closing fast for Google to make its presence felt in tablets. It's about to get caught between Apple's iPad and the rapidly approaching Windows 8 - which, on tablets, may offer everything that people need if they don't want an iPad.In which case, what's left for Google's Android? (Note the emphasis on Google here, because Amazon's Kindle Fire has shown that non-Google Android tablets can make a splash.)We know that Google thinks tablets are important. Here's Larry Page, Google's chief executive, who at last week's earnings discussion wasasked directly by an analystabout the company's presence in the tablet market - one which is expected to grow by about 50% per year over the next few years, and double this year.Heather Bellini - Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Research Division:"I was wondering, Larry, if you could walk us through your view on Google's tablet strategy via Android and the relative importance of having success with these devices in terms of achieving your long-term goal?"Larry Page:"Heather, that's a good question. I think that we're very excited about tablets. I think there's a number of Android tablets out there and obviously, we have strong competition there as well. I think you've seen us really invest substantially also in things like Google Play, which really give you great access to entertainment, media, books and videos and so on, and as well as the apps. And we think that's an important component of what we're doing. I think there's also -- obviously, there's been a lot of success on some lower-priced tablets that run Android, maybe not the full Google version of Android. But we definitely believe that there's going to be a lot of success at the lower end of the market as well with lower-priced products that will be very significant. And it's definitely an area we think is important and we're quite focused on."(Thanks to SeekingAlpha for the transcript.)The rumours that Google is going to release a low-priced Google-branded tablet, made by Asus, have become pervasive; from the hints apparently dropped by Eric Schmidt (Google's ex-CEO, now chairman) a few months ago, to the murmurs from the manufacturing side, to the stories earlier this month that aplanned launch in May of said tablet has been put off until July.In truth, the chance for Android tablets - more particularly, for tablets running Google's Android - to grab a sizable share of the market is shrinking There are three reasons for this: Amazon (and other "white box" tablet makers) at the bottom end of the price spectrum; Apple at the top end; and Windows 8 alongside Apple to sweep up all the people who want a tablet for some sort of work but don't want an iPad.Gartner's Carolina Milanesi put out aforecast for the tablet marketlast week in which she predicted that Apple will continue to dominate the field through to 2016, selling 169m per year by 2016 (compared to just under 40m last year), while Android tablets will ship 137m (compared to 17.3m last year) and Windows 8-based tablets only 43m (in 2011: 0).Gartner tablet sales forecast to 2016 from April 2011 (dotted line) and April 2012 (solid line)The graph shows how her forecasts have changed since April of 2011: mostly, iPad sales were lower than expected in 2011, and of course WebOS never took off, and QNX (on the PlayBook) turned out to be an anchor instead of a balloon. At the time Microsoft hadn't said anything about Windows 8 and tablets and touch; all it had done was show that the next version of Windows would run on the ARM architecture as well as Intel's. The touch version and Metro didn't appear until the summer.But now we know about Metro, and Windows 8. For this year, Milanesi is forecasting 73m iPads, 37.8m Android tablets (including non-Google ones), and just under 5m Windows tablets. Further ahead, she's still seeing good prospects for Android over Windows.Now, she's the professional on this (and I respect her opinion a lot), but I beg to differ. While she doesn't distinguish between Google Android (let's call them GAndroid) and non-Google Android tablets (such as the Kindle Fire), it's clear from data given by Andy Rubin, Google's head of Android, that non-Google Android is outselling GAndroid by a substantial margin.Android rising - but which?In October 2011,Rubin said(see the 6.52pm slot) that there were about 6m Android tablets using Google services out there. By the end of the year, the proportion of devices accessing the Android Market (as it then was) had risen from 1.8% (around when Rubin spoke) to 2.4%, so allowing for expansion of the Android installed base generally, may have hit 10m.Compare that with Milanesi's estimate, of 17.3m Android tablets shipped during 2011, and you start to see the scale of Google's (not necessarilyAndroid's) problem: it's barely dominating its own sector. And when you then compare it to Apple, which Milanesi says shipped just shy of 40m tablets in 2011, or 66% of the total for the year, then you see that Google already has a mass of trouble in this sector.But Microsoft is going to make it worse.Reality bitesA quick dose of reality first: most owners of Android-powered smartphones, if they have a PC, are Windows users. That's simple statistics: even the most generous assumptions can't push the Mac share among consumers beyond 10%, and as GAndroid smartphones now make up more than half of smartphone sales, and rapidly heading towards being half of the installed base of smartphones too, their users are overwhelmingly going to be Windows users too. Only a tiny pool of people will use an Android-powered phone and a Macintosh. (The other key player in the smartphone market is RIM and its BlackBerry, of course; again, the vast majority there will be running Windows.)Apple's small computer share notwithstanding, the iPad has been a tremendous success in the tablet market. That's been helped by the App Store, which has amazing stuff likeWonders (the app based on the Brian Cox series; it really is astonishing) as well as access to the iTunes store, so you can download music, TV and films, as well as all those apps that people seem to like.And now here comes Windows 8, expected in the autumn (October is the favoured month) and PC and tablet makers are gearing up to offer it. Not only that: Windows 8 on a tablet works really well, even on hardware that wasn't designed for it (seeMatthew Baxter-Reynolds's experience using the Consumer Preview on an Acer Iconia). And Intel has announced the specifications for forthcoming tablets, and expects there will be about 10 models available - in 10in and 11in versions - by the end of the year.Not only that; Microsoft hasn't yet unveiled everything that Windows 8 tablets will have - where you should probably expect some integration, possibly even tight integration, with Xbox Live, and all the content that's available there; the Xbox has become an important conduit for all sorts of conduit, including TV and films, to the living room (arguably more effectively than its own Media Center, and far more so than any other non-TV platform). There will be Xbox integration on Windows 8 tablets, and that's going to mean the chance to play games on them, or watch video, or buy music.Feast of choiceSo there you are at Christmas 2012. Like many people, you're a Windows user with a Google Android smartphone. (Or perhaps just a featurephone.) You're considering buying a tablet. Here are your choices.• Apple iPad. Doesn't run any Windows software (and it's looking increasingly unlikely that Microsoft will offer any form of Office for it). However it can connect to Google services, which you, as a GAndroid user, are signed up for. Lots of apps, lots of games, lots of content. (If you don't have a smartphone, the apps side won't matter; you don't have any.)• Amazon Kindle Fire. Just a guess, but it's likely Amazon will have this in the UK by the end of the year. Lots of apps and games (through its forked Android market), lots of content that you get with your Amazon ID. No inbuilt apps for your Google services, though you can set up email. (As with the iPad, if you don't have a smartphone, you don't have any existing apps to worry about.)• Windows 8 tablet. Available from a range of makers, with access to your Google services (via email setup and the web, eg for Google Docs), plus Windows compatibility (for things like Office documents, via Office 365 or perhaps directly on the device), plus Xbox content such as games, TV and films that you can sign up for easily - and might already be signed up for.• generic Google Android tablet. Available from a range of makers; price about the same as the iPad, but without the same range of content and apps as Apple, because even if what Eric Schmidt predicted happens and app makers begin targeting Android first on smartphones, in the tablet field Apple still leads, and things like Wonders are still going to get built for the Retina Display iPad and its siblings first. That gives Apple an advantage in the content wars. Google Play does have films and music - but so does Apple, and the price is the same. But the iPad is cheaper, because it's got volume, whereas the top tablet maker in the Android field at the end of 2011 was doing less than a sixth of Apple's volumes.• Google-Asus "Google tablet". May be at the same sort of price as Amazon's, but it's hard to believe that it will be comparable, given that it will have been built down to a price, where Amazon can happily sell at break-even, knowing it will profit from selling content. Google (and Asus) have no such guarantee, and the same problems that the generic Google Android tablets face. So it will be cheaper, but won't have the content.Disadvantage Google?Now, the fact that the Google tablet will have the Google brand on it may make a substantial difference for shoppers - the average person will likely see it and think that it's a brand they can trust. (Most people trust Google.) Whether that trust will be sustained once they get it home and find that theycan't get Homeland, the TV series. (Then again, it'snot on Xbox yet, it seems. Appledoes have it. How will things look by Christmas?)The key question is, will people be more loyal to their smartphone, or their PC? (If they don't have a smartphone, will that make a difference?) Will they view a tablet purchase as better if it integrates with the former, or the latter? "Gartner's consumer survey data shows that consumers are running many of their apps on their mobile phones and their tablets," the company says. But there's still a huge number of people who don't have tablets, and the fact that so many have chosen to buy iPads, yet have Windows PCs (statistics again), indicates that plenty of people are running different apps on their smartphones and tablets.That's why I think that Windows 8 tablets will see a more rapid ramp in sales than Gartner is forecasting. After all, if the argument in favour of Android tablets over the iPad is "you can plug in an SD card/USB device", then the Windows tablets will do all that for certain. And if the GAndroid tablets don't have specification tickboxes in their favour, what do they have?What could hold Windows 8 on tablets back? Only a couple of things:1) price. With the Windows licence on top of the build price of the tablet, you'll have to expect that they will initially cost more than Android tablets of a similar size. But they might be able to count on volume because of the attractions mentioned above. That could bring price down in short order.2) app availability. The Windows 8 (ARM) tablets will have a walled garden app store, just like the iPad does, but it's not yet clear how quick the takeup will be by developers to rewrite apps for it. Although we're told that porting is pretty easy, we were told that too about getting apps onto Windows Phone, and that has hardly set the world alight, despite Microsoft offering money to apps developers. A platform has to be built, and won't grow overnight.3) general user experience. Except, as we've already seen, that is already pretty good - and the Windows 8 tablet experience seems miles ahead of the Android experience; the result of Microsoft having spent very much longer on it than Google.Overall, then, this is going to be a very tricky time for Google. It now has three challengers in the tablet market: Apple, the leader; Microsoft, the very experienced pretender; non-Google Android makers such as Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble and a zillion Chinese white-box makers; and then, finally, Google itself, and the companies making Google Android tablets. If you had to choose two of those to succeed, which would they be - and why?
Censorship of internet content can take many forms and ranges from governments blocking the dissemination of political opinion to blacklisting pornographic and pirate websites.TheOpenNet Initiativeis a collaboration between three groups – theCitizen Lab at the University of Toronto's Munk school of global affairs,Harvard University's Berkman centre for internet &amp; societyand theSecDev Group in Ottawa– that investigates internet filtering around the world.ONI principal investigator and Citizen Lab director Ronald Deibert says:Originally and probably still to a large extent, pornography is both the most widely targeted content and also the one that's justified the most by countries. Most countries, if they're going to engage in internet censorship, start by talking about a broad category of inappropriate content. But what we've found over the last decade is the spectrum of content that's targeted for filtering has grown to include political content and security-related content, especially in authoritarian regimes. The scope and scale of content targeted for filtering has grown.For each country, the ONI looks at the following four categories of filtering and gives each a rank ranging from "No evidence of filtering" to "Pervasive filtering":•Political– content opposing the current government or its policies; can also relate to human rights, freedom of expression, minority rights or religious movements•Social– content that might be perceived as offensive by the general population such as sexuality, gambling, illegal drugs, etc•Conflict/security– Content related to armed conflicts, border disputes, militant groups and separatist movements•Internet tools– Tools enabling users to communicate with others, circumvent filtering or that otherwise provide a service. Each country is then classified in terms of consistency – how consistently these topics are filtered across internet service providers – and transparency – how visible the process is by which sites are blocked and whether users are able to view what's on the blacklist.According to the ONI data, Iran was the worst ranked, with "pervasive" filtering in the political, social and internet tools categories and "substantial" for conflict/security filtering. Tested in 2011, Iran's filtering was rated as being "highly" consistent and had "medium" transparency. Even the country's president isn't immune to the blacklist – it was reported in February this year thatcensors had blocked access to several news sites supporting Ahmadinejad ahead of the parliamentary elections in March. Worse yet, Iran has proposed a national internet, which would both increase the government's grip over individual connections but also restrict foreign users from accessing Iranian websites. Additionally, individuals are also required to provide personal details to even use a cybercafe.After Iran was China, which had "pervasive" political and conflict/security filtering, along with "substantial" internet tools and social filtering. In addition to highly consistent filtering, China also had a lower transparency score than Iran.On April 12, Chinese users were cut off from all foreign websites, possibly due to a reconfiguration of the so-called "great firewall."Meanwhile, authorities have shut down 42 websites since March this year.  "The market for filtering technologies has grown worldwide; what started out as a market primarily oriented to corporate environments in the west has now become a major growing business for government," said Deibert.Our research identified many corporations – mostly Silicon Valley corporations – that have provided products and services to regimes that have violated human rights. The market for these types of technologies that are used to implement control is growing more sophisticatedHowever, Deibert feels governments are moving away from widespread blacklists of websites to filter and towards what the ONI calls "next-generation filtering," which includes targeted surveillance and "just in time" filtering, or temporarily filtering content only when it's valuable – for instance, during an election. "We're seeing a trend away from traditional internet censorship and towards next-generation controls," he said. "The future is not in the great firewall but in the way countries like Iran have come to filter content."Do you agree with the ONI assessment? Let us know in the comment field below. You can also download thedatatoo direct from the ONI – what can you do with it? And what would you want to see it compared with?Data summaryONI ranking of each country for internet censorshipCountryPolitical filteringSocial filteringInternet tools filteringConflict/security filteringUnited Arab EmiratessubstantialpervasivepervasiveselectiveAfghanistanno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceArmeniasubstantialselectiveselectiveselectiveAustraliano evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceAzerbaijanselectiveselectiveno evidenceno evidenceBangladeshno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceBahrainpervasivepervasivesubstantialselectiveBelarusselectiveselectiveselectiveselectiveCanadano evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceChinapervasivesubstantialsubstantialpervasiveColombiano evidenceselectiveno evidenceno evidenceGermanyno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceDenmarkno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceAlgeriano evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceEgyptno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceEthiopiasubstantialselectiveselectiveselectiveFinlandno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceFranceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceUnited Kingdomno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceGeorgiaselectiveno evidenceno evidenceselectiveGuatemalano evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceCroatiano evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceHungaryno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceIndonesiaselectivesubstantialselectiveno evidenceIsraelno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceIndiaselectiveselectiveselectiveselectiveIraqno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceIranpervasivepervasivepervasivesubstantialItalyno evidenceselectiveno evidenceno evidenceJordanselectiveno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceKyrgyzstanselectiveselectiveno evidenceno evidenceSouth Koreano evidenceselectiveno evidencepervasiveKuwaitselectivepervasivepervasiveselectiveKazakhstanselectiveselectiveno evidenceno evidenceLaosno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceLebanonno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceSri Lankano evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceLatviano evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceLibyaselectiveno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceMoroccono evidenceselectiveselectiveselectiveMoldovaselectiveno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceBurma (Myanmar)pervasivesubstantialsubstantialsubstantialMauritaniaselectiveno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceMexicono evidenceno evidenceno evidenceselectiveMalaysiano evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceNigeriano evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceNorwayno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceNepalno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceOmanselectivepervasivesubstantialno evidencePeruno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidencePhilippinesno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidencePakistanselectiveselectiveselectivesubstantialGaza and the West Bankno evidencesubstantialno evidenceno evidenceQatarselectivepervasivepervasiveselectiveRomaniano evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceRussiaselectiveselectiveno evidenceno evidenceSaudi ArabiasubstantialpervasivepervasiveselectiveSudanselectivesubstantialsubstantialno evidenceSwedenno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceSingaporeno evidenceselectiveno evidenceno evidenceSyriapervasiveselectivepervasiveselectiveThailandselectiveselectiveselectiveno evidenceTajikistanselectiveno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceTurkmenistanpervasiveselectiveselectiveselectiveTunisiano evidenceselectiveselectiveno evidenceTurkeyselectiveselectiveselectiveno evidenceUkraineno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceUgandano evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceUnited Statesno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceUzbekistanpervasiveselectiveselectiveselectiveVenezuelano evidenceselectiveno evidenceno evidenceVietnampervasiveselectivesubstantialselectiveYemensubstantialpervasivepervasiveselectiveZimbabweno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceno evidenceSOURCE:ONIDownload the data•Download the latest dataset direct from the ONI•DATA: download the data behind our interactive mapMore dataData journalism and data visualisations from the GuardianWorld government data•Search the world's government data with our gatewayDevelopment and aid data•Search the world's global development data with our gatewayCan you do something with this data?•FlickrPlease post your visualisations and mash-ups on ourFlickr group• Contact us atdata@guardian.co.uk•Get the A-Z of data•More at the Datastore directory•Follow us on Twitter•Like us on Facebook
Когда в декабре в России разразились антиправительственные протесты, казалось, что они возникли ниоткуда. Однако споры и недовольство вокруг будущего России – обсуждать которое на государственном телевидении было запрещено – бурлили в российской блогосфере несколько месяцев.Когда движение перешло с уютного экрана компьютера – современного аналога советской кухни, где диссиденты, свободные от шпионящих глаз и ушей, собирались выпустить свой гнев, - на улицы, это шокировало всех, начиная от самих десятков тысяч протестующих и заканчивая правительством Владимира Путина.Интернет в России, в отличие от иных СМИ, развивался преимущественно без контроля со стороны государства. Недавние протесты против Владимира Путина заставили многих задаться вопросом: изменится ли такой расклад?«Сейчас уже слишком поздно менять ситуацию, - говорит Антон Носик, один из главных российских интернет-гуру. - Дети сегодня при рождении попадают в интернет и вырастают в интернете. Нравится вам это или нет, придется это принять».Эту позицию разделяют большинство интернет-экспертов в России – сейчас уже слишком поздно, и технологически слишком сложно, установить систему ограничения в китайском стиле. И тем не менее, правительство, печально известное своим пристрастием как к пропаганде, так и к власти мнительных спецслужб, активно намекает на возможность контроля за интернетом.Оппозиционные блогеры и активисты уже подвергались нападкам со стороны государства в лице следователей и Федеральной службы безопасности, главной ведомственной наследницы КГБ. Некоторые были арестованы, других вызывали для допросов. Под сомнительными предлогами закрывались сайты. Однако до настоящего момента этот подход ограничивался несколькими не связанными между собой эпизодами.«Стратегии как таковой нет, - говорит Андрей Солдатов, эксперт по российским спецслужбам. – Они не знают, как действовать».Текущие и бывшие чиновники в руководстве ФСБ и спецслужб были в первых рядах среди тех, кто призывал к принятию репрессивных мер в отношении интернета. Ожидается, что с возвращением Путина на должность президента (инаугурация 7 мая), их власть и влияние лишь вырастут.В конце прошлого месяца заместитель главы ФСБ призвал к «чистке» российской блогосферы от западного влияния, вторя путинской позиции о том, что недовольство в России раздувается из-за границы. В ходе  регионального совещания на тему безопасности Сергей Смирнов заявил, что западные спецслужбы используют «новые технологии» для «создания и поддержки постоянного напряжения в обществе».«Цель серьезна – вплоть до свержения политического режима, который существует в этих странах. - сказал Смирнов. – Мы знаем, что проблема "арабской весны", проблема революций, случившихся на побережье Африки, - ко всему этому они приложили руку».«Общество должно защищаться. Если враг использует "грязные" технологии, нам нужно каким-то образом очистить пространство от подобной активности», - заявил он.Призывы к регулированию интернета начали звучать спустя неделю после того, как на волне оспариваемых результатов парламентских выборов разразился первый крупный антиправительственный протест. Николай Патрушев, секретарь российского Совета Безопасности и бывший глава ФСБ, привел как Китай, так и Соединенные Штаты в качестве примера «разумного регулирования» интернета.«Попытки помешать людям общаться – в принципе контрпродуктивны и даже аморальны. Но мы не можем игнорировать использование интернета преступниками и террористическими группировками», - сказал тогда Патрушев.Это позиция, которой придерживается сам Путин, - человек, который признавал, что почти никогда не пользуется интернетом и даже тексты предпочитает писать от руки, а не на компьютере. Он несколько раз высказывался в защиту свободы в интернете, предостерегая при этом о вредоносной стороне всемирной сети.Именно этого критики правительства опасаются больше всего – что государство не станет принимать открытую антисетевую стратегию, а будет пользоваться для подавления существующими и новыми законами. Они ссылаются на широко применяемый закон о борьбе с экстремизмом – курс, якобы принятый с целью борьбы с исламистскими и националистическими преступлениями и терроризмом, но на деле бесконтрольно применявшийся против либеральных активистов страны, включая оппозицию, экологов и защитников прав сексуальных меньшинств.Министр внутренних дел России на прошлой неделе сказал, что скоро его министерство откроет новый департамент, который будет заниматься борьбой с экстремизмом в «электронных СМИ».Министерство юстиции уже имеет список из порядка тысячи сайтов, которые запрещены в России, - который включает в себя самые разные страницы, начиная от исламистских террористических сетей и заканчивая сайтами нелегального скачивания музыки – все в рамках закона по борьбе с экстремизмом.Самый недавний случай применения закона против блогеров: в феврале следователи начали уголовное расследование в отношении оппозиционного блогера после того, как он написал пост, в котором говорил о возможности проведения несанкционированных протестов оппозиции в самый разгар предвыборной напряженности в России.«Цензура может быть и вполне законной», - говорит Александр Морозов, популярный блогер и глава московского Центра медиаисследований. «Законы против экстремизма действуют как орудие страха. Они оказывают давление – когда осознаешь, что тебе может грозить семь лет тюрьмы, начинаешь писать с большей осторожностью».Правительство приняло и другие законодательные акты. На прошлой неделе (3 апреля) суд в располагающейся в Сибири Кемеровской области признал местного блогера виновным в «публичном оскорблении государственного чиновника» – после того, как он написал в своем блоге два поста, в которых нелестно отзывался о губернаторе региона. Его приговорили к 11 месяцам исправительных работ и обязали выплатить крупный штраф. Когда в январе в сети и на улицах начали нарастать протестные настроения, ФСБ вызвала на допрос Павла Дурова, главу ВКонтакте, российской версии Facebook, после требования закрыть на его сайте несколько оппозиционных групп. Он отказался удовлетворить их требования и явиться по повестке, и следствие было закрыто.Действия России в отношении интернета до сих пор вторили ее действиям в офлайне – начиная с использования политических законов для борьбы с оппозицией и заканчивая использованием троллей из прокремлевской молодежной организации «Наши», открытой агрессии в виде DDoS-атак против, в основном, либеральных сайтов перед выборами в парламент России и зачастую применяемых в отношении LiveJournal – любимой блог-платформы россиян.Теперь наблюдатели следят за новой организацией под названием «Лига безопасного интернета», совет которой включает в себя чиновников ФСБ и министерства связи и массовых коммуникаций, а также представителей трех крупных, и лояльных государству, частных телекоммуникационных компаний.Пока организация занята разработкой жесткого законодательства в отношении детской порнографии в России, но уже, не вдаваясь в подробности, заявила о том, что в будущем может запустить и другие проекты.Дефицит всеобъемлющей стратегии в отношении интернета не помешал чиновникам начать прощупывать почву в смысле китайского подхода. В июле 2010 года суд дальневосточного Хабаровского края постановил местному интернет-провайдеру закрыть YouTube, обнаружив там видео экстремистского националистического содержания.«Это китайская концепция, - говорит Солдатов. – Проблема в том, что Китай для применения этой стратегии предпринимал некоторые подготовительные шаги – у него была технология. Но в России существует слишком много точек входа на зарубежные сайты. Это слишком сложно устроить технологически».«Они научились блокировать маленькие сайты, - говорит он. – Беда в том, что они не имеют ни малейшего понятия, как быть с социальными сетями. Китайцы осознали эту проблему очень быстро. У нас же уже слишком поздно».В России имел место очень стремительный рост использования социальных сетей – по этому показателю она одна из самых первых в мире. По информации международного рейтингового агентства Comscore, в сентябре Россия вышла на первое место в Европе по количеству пользователей интернета. Согласно недавнему исследованию Pew Research Center's Global Attitudes Project, 43% российских интернет-пользователей регулярно пользуются Facebook и Twitter, в прошлом году таких было 33%. Сайт ВКонтакте еще более популярен. Российская попытка составить конкуренцию твиттеру – Futubra, стилизованная под китайский сервис микроблогов Weibo, успехом не увенчалась. «Она была обречена на провал», - говорит Носик.Россия разрывается между желанием контролировать интернет и желанием использовать его для того, чтобы развиться в современное государство, полагают аналитики. «Если они начнут наступление на интернет, они проиграют, - говорит Носик. – Они превратятся в Туркмению, что явно не то, о чем они мечтают».«Сделать они могут следующее: начать продвигать самих себя, развивая собственное присутствие в сети», - утверждает он, приводя в пример Futubra. «Но закончится все как обычно - потратят кучу денег и разворуют их».
Top 10 UK video games charts, April 13 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (2)Fifa Street(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)52 (3)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (31)PC (8)63 (4)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (37)Wii (7)PSP (3)294 (1)Kinect Star Wars(12+)Xbox 360 (100)25 (5)Tiger Woods Pga Tour 13(3+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (38)36 (6)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (39)PC (4)Wii (3)237 (10)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (34)PC (18)238 (9)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (37)PC (6)259 (8)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (68)3DS (32)2010 (7)Ssx(3+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (50)711 (11)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (37)PC (2)2112 (12)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (46)Xbox 360 (30)PS3 (16)3DS (6)1513 (16)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)PC (1)2114 (–)Resident Evil: Operation Raccoon City(15+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (37)315 (13)Moshi Monsters: Moshling Zoo (3+)DS (100)716 (17)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (64)Xbox 360 (22)PS3 (14)2517 (15)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (45)1518 (14)Mario Party 9 (3+)Wii (100)619 (19)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Wii (27)Xbox 360 (26)DS (19)PS3 (16)820 (–)Wwe '12(12+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (40)Wii (5)6TUKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Jonathan Millican is a first-year university student from Harrogate in North Yorkshire. He says he doesn't think of himself as a "stereotypical geek", but having been crowned champion in Britain'sCyber Security Challenge, the 19-year-old is bound to take some stick from his undergraduate friends at Cambridge.The competition is not well known, but it is well contested. About 4,000 people applied to take part this year, hundreds were seen by judges, and 30 were selected for the final in Bristol on 10 March.After a day of fighting off hackers and identifying viruses in a series of simulations, Millican triumphed, giving him legitimate claim to be the brightest young computer whiz in the UK.And though he may not recognise it yet, Millican has become a small player in a global game. There is a dotted line that links him to an ideological battle over the future of the internet, and the ways states will use it to prosecute conflicts in the 21st century.The remaining cold war superpower, the United States, is slowly squaring up to the emerging behemoth, China, in a sphere in which Beijing has a distinct advantage: cyberspace.Experts estimate China has as many "cyber jedis" as the US has engineers, and some of them, with backing from the state, have beensystematically hackinginto and stealing from governments and companies in the west, taking defence secrets, compromising computer systems, and scanning energy and water plants for potential vulnerabilities.The scale of what has been going on is only now being recognised, and with a discernible sense of panic, the US and the UK are trying to make up lost ground.One important way of shoring up the west's defences involves recruiting a rival army of computer specialists to defend the systems being attacked.This is why the UK began the Cyber Security Challenge in 2011, and why Millican and otherparticipants have been discreetly courted by GCHQ, the government's electronic eavesdropping centre, which is on the frontline of this new power struggle.The explosion in internet use, and the almost complete reliance on computer systems to run and record our daily lives, has opened up endless opportunities for thieves, spies and vandals to exploit the platform.Though it is still evolving, the push-back has started. The Guardian has spoken to senior officials in the US and UK government, as well as specialists and independent thinktanks in London, Washington and San Francisco, who agree that the west is galvanising itself to adopt a far more aggressive approach to a problem for which there is no precedent. The stakes have suddenly become very high.Over the past 18 months, there has been a concerted effort to highlight the relentless nature of day-to-day attacks on businesses and government departments. The Obama administration estimates that 60% of small firms that are hacked go broke, and billions of dollars worth of intellectual property have been stolen from industry, including military blueprints from leading defence contractors.And in the political shadows in Westminster and Washington, they have moved to put cyberspace more formally into the military sphere, so that those responsible for the attacks understand that retaliation is now part of the game.New military battlegroundThough much maligned, Britain's 2010strategic defence and security reviewmay prove to have been a historic punctuation mark in this process.The review made the threats from cyberspace a "tier one" priority, because Downing Street considered them a genuine threat to national security.The US is moving in this direction, too. On 17 January, the head of the US military, General Martin Dempsey, set out a significant change in position. Ina 70-page documentthat was largely ignored and almost completely impenetrable, he said the US intended to treat cyberspace as a military battleground."Disrupting the enemy will require the full inclusion of space and cyberspace operations into the traditional air-land-sea battle space&nbsp;… [They have] critical importance for the projection of military force. Arguably, this emergence is the most important and fundamental change … over the past several decades."The military has long had basic cyber capabilities, such as equipment for jamming signals, but the more sophisticated weapons are seldom spoken of, and rarely used, in part because there has been no formal code of conduct.This has prevented the US from routinely deploying its most destructive cyberweapons, including during the Libya campaign last year, when the Pentagon gave President Obama the option of disabling Muammar Gaddafi's military computer network with a targeted cyber-attack. The White House decided against it, but the Dempsey doctrine will give the president, and General Keith Alexander, the head of US Cyber Command, more confidence next time.Officials in the US and the UK privately concede they have been developing a range of new "offensive" cyberweapons – and a rulebook for their use."If we know that someone is about to launch a cyber-attack on us, then we will pre-empt it," said one Whitehall official. "We have that capability and we will use it, even if the bad actors are based abroad."The state department now regards cybersecurity "as a foreign policy priority", and Obama administration officials insist "the laws of conflict apply to cyberspace"."If there is significant information of a cyber-event, we reserve the right to use tools in our toolbox," said one. "When does a cyber-attack achieve critical level? When one can attribute an attack that deliberately causes loss of life."Paul Rosenzweig, who spent four years as deputy assistant secretary in the department of homeland security until 2010, is sceptical that a cyber-only war will happen soon. But he added: "We may have cyberwar as part of another war. I would hope and pray and assume that they [China] are as worried about that as we are."Frank Cilluffo, President George Bush's special assistant for homeland security at the time of the 9/11 attacks, said: "In cyber, we are where the counter-terrorist community was on September 12, 2001."I have come to the conclusion that we can no longer firewall our way out of the problem. We need to talk about offensive capabilities to deter bad actors. I don't think that you are going to see warfare without a cyber dimension in the future&nbsp;… that is a given. I think warfare as we think of it today will take on these dimensions."With a buildup of cyberweaponry on both sides, Russia and China have called for negotiations to start on new treaties to govern what is permissible in the domain.The Russians, in particular, have favoured arms control-style agreements, and last September Moscow and Beijing formally proposed to the UN a new international code that would standardise behaviour on the internet.That has been flatly rejected by the UK and the US. They argue arms control treaties won't work because it will be almost impossible to verify the weapons each state has – computer viruses are more easily hidden than nuclear missiles.And the new international code, the Foreign Office argues, is simply an attempt by Russia and China to stifle free speech on the internet in their own countries."It is too late for new formal treaties," said one senior source in the Ministry of Defence. "If we go down that road it will be years before anything emerges. This is China and Russia trying to kick the issue into the long grass."But the alternative is almost as far-fetched, and perhaps more nebulous. The foreign secretary, William Hague, has been calling for countries to agree a "rules of the road" in cyberspace, with respect for international law, rights to privacy, and protection of intellectual property at their core.This puts huge emphasis on goodwill between countries and the harmonisation of existing laws to make it easier for investigators to cross international boundaries. It is as unpalatable to China and Russia as their ideas are to the west."It's not at a point where I would call it cyberwar yet, but it's close," said Larry Clinton, president of the Internet Security Alliance, which represents a group of multinational companies, including many in the defence and aviation sectors."I think we are certainly seeing an arms race with respect to cyber. We did well to get through the nuclear age. We did well with chemical weapons. If we can do as well with cyber, that would be great, but we don't really have a theory; I am not sure what the theory is. We don't have a model set up for how we are going to deal with this."Private fearsDeveloping cyberweapons, and a methodology for using them, is only one part of this complex new puzzle.Though government departments are continually under attack, it is private industry that suffers most from hackers. The frightening scale of the theft of intellectual property, and the potential knock-on effect for fragile economies, underpinned the UK's decision to say it must now be regarded as a genuine threat to national security.This, in turn, is forcing governments to expand the boundaries of what might trigger a military response to include theft, albeit on a massive scale.Rosenzweig estimates that 85-90% of the US's digital infrastructure is in private hands. "I am pretty sure it's the same in Europe."Though it is hard to make calculations, one survey last year commissioned by the Cabinet Office estimated theUK economy lost £27bn to cybertheftin 2010.In America, they gave up trying to calculate precise values nine years ago, when the number of known "cyber-intrusions" reached 100,000 in a year; one respected Washington thinktank put the cost of cybertheft in the US last year at roughly $100bn (£63bn).America's biggest companies have spent a similar amount beefing up their cybersecurity in the past five years, but analysts say this hasn't been enough to prevent "significant military losses" involving stealth, nuclear weapon and submarine technology, though none of the companies involved will admit it.Without giving away details, Shawn Henry, executive assistant director at the FBI, confirmed that military networks and defence contractors had been hit hard by hackers. "A tremendous amount of information has been stolen from those networks by a variety of state actors."But there is another dimension of cyber-espionage which is, in some ways, more disturbing."We know that Russia and China have done the reconnaissance necessary to plan to attack US critical infrastructure," said Jim Lewis, from the Centre for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington thinktank.Lewis was commissioned by Bush in 2008 to write acyber strategy for the government, which is still regarded as a benchmark."You might think we should put protection of critical infrastructure at a slightly higher level. It is completely vulnerable. It is totally unprotected."This isn't made up. I have been doing this for a long time. We know that people have done the reconnaissance, we know that control systems can issue commands to destroy critical infrastructure. We know all this and we have done nothing to defend ourselves&nbsp;… We have been trying for about seven years to deter people and it doesn't work."Henry admitted his agency was now dealing with thousands of attacks every month. The agency has people in 63 countries specifically to deal with online threats. "We recognise that there are vulnerabilities in infrastructure," he said. "There are thousands of breaches every month across industry and retail infrastructure. We know that the capabilities of foreign states are substantial and we know the type of information that they are targeting."He added: "We have seen adversaries that have been in networks for many months, or even years in some cases, undetected. They have essentially had free rein over those networks … looking at information that is transiting that network, with the ability not only to review that data, but potentially to change that data. They have complete ability to disrupt that network entirely."Henry said attacks were becoming much more sophisticated. "Every step that the defence makes, the offence changes its tactics."Rosenzweig believes this mapping of critical infrastructure – such as energy or water plants – is seen within government as "preparation of the battlefield". It is, he says, China's way of saying: "Don't send the 7th fleet to save Taiwan, or we will take out the electricity supply in Los Angeles".The US is usingthe Idaho National Laboratory to run simulationstesting the robustness of America's most important computer networks, but these take time.With so much at stake, the Obama administration is pushing for proper domestic regulation and standards in cybersecurity, but that is being resisted by private companies, even though it may force them to close the gaps that are being exploited.Three competing bills are currently vying for votes in Congress, including one from the former presidential candidate John McCain, who wants to fend off government oversight, and the prospect of companies being fined – or sued – if their cyber defences don't come up to scratch.The role of ChinaThough the arguments are running along party lines, there is no argument about the fundamental problem, and where it is sourced from."Anyone who is significant on either side of the aisle is running around with their hair on fire," said Rosenzweig. "The influential voices on both sides are saying it's a problem. It's a real problem and it's a real problem right now. General Keith Alexander [head of US Cyber Command] says he is seeing it, and he's not the sort of guy to make things up."There is no doubt about the main culprit, says Rosenzweig. "China denies it – but this is one of the bald-faced lies that people get away with because we don't want to face the consequences. China has more computer programmers than the west has engineers."Not everyone is a cyber jedi. But if you have 1 million computer programmers, you will find 1,000 jedis. We have a lot of IT professionals but they aren't the same thing; we don't understand the culture."Dmitri Alperovitch, one of the world's foremost independent cybersecurity analysts, said: "The Chinese clearly have no restraints when it comes to espionage."In the US, economic espionage by either private sector or government is prohibited by policy and the Chinese are certainly not constrained by such measures. When it comes to volumes and sheer scale, no one even comes close to them."The audaciousness of some of the attacks has been astounding. Earlier this month,Nasa's inspector general, Paul Martin, revealedthe space agency's Jet Propulsion Laboratory headquarters in Pasadena, California, had been compromised by an attack that appeared to come from China.The JPL manages 23 spacecraft, including missions to Jupiter, Saturn and Mars, and controls the International Space Station.In remarkable testimony to Congress, Martin said hackers had "gained full system access" to JPL, allowing them to modify, copy, or delete sensitive files, create new ones, and upload hacking tools to compromise other Nasa systems. In short, they were running the network.This was only one of 47 cyber-attacks on Nasa last year, 13 of which successfully compromised the agency's firewalls.Martin said some of the intrusions "may have been sponsored by foreign intelligence services seeking to further their countries' objectives".There is debate on how effective, and for how long, a cyber-attack from China could knock out an energy supply or communications hub. Larry Clinton said it would not be easy, but it would be foolish to think it was not possible."Older technologies tend to be safer than newer technologies. Copper wire is more secure than fibre. And the problem is the interconnections. We don't have nearly the degree of air-gapping that we once did."You can get into a weapons system and you won't even know that system is compromised until you set it off and then it comes back and hits you in the face&nbsp;… the sort of attacks that were considered sophisticated six years ago are considered elementary now."If the threat is that great, and the belief that China is behind it so widely held, why hasn't the US been more robust in condemning Beijing? It's a question the state department refuses to answer. It will not even say if it has used normal diplomatic means – summoning an ambassador or expelling someone from the embassy.Melissa Hathaway, who was director of the Joint Interagency Cyber Task Force under Bush and was on the National Security Council in the first year of the Obama administration, thinks the reticence is understandable."We need to think about our roles and the economic future of the world. What would you like the future of the economy to look like? Quite honestly, right now we are all dependent on China. All of us."They have bought a lot of European debt, they have bought a lot of US debt. They are helping to promote world stability right now."The US has been pursuing another route to the Chinese, reaching out to Beijing using thinktanks as proxies, and engaging them in "cyberwar" games.It is the only chance the Pentagon and the state department get to sit across the table from their Chinese counterparts, to express their own fears, and to hear those of China.One hope is that the talks will lead to an equivalent of a "nuclear hotline" from Washington to Beijing, so leaders can talk before a situation gets out of control.While the US may be pleased it is finally getting its message across, Lewis isn't convinced the Chinese are listening. And he doesn't think they will stop their activity in cyberspace either.He has been dealing with the Chinese military for years, and says the People's Liberation Army is hostile."They see the US as a target. They feel they have justification for their actions. There is a sense that China has been treated unfairly, and so they have a right to catch up. Britain and France may have burned the summer palace, but the US has become the symbol of imperialism. And they think the US is in decline."
The US and China have been discreetly engaging in "war games" amid rising anger in Washington over the scale and audacity of Beijing-co-ordinated cyber attacks on western governments and big business, the Guardian has learned.State department and Pentagon officials, along with their Chinese counterparts, were involved in two war games last year that were designed to help prevent a sudden military escalation between the sides if either felt they were being targeted. Another session is planned for May.Though the exercises have given the US a chance to vent its frustration at what appears to be state-sponsored espionage and theft on an industrial scale, China has been belligerent."China has come to the conclusion that the power relationship has changed, and it has changed in a way that favours them," said Jim Lewis, a senior fellow and director at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) thinktank in Washington."The PLA [People's Liberation Army] is very hostile. They see the US as a target. They feel they have justification for their actions. They think the US is in decline."The war games have been organised through the CSIS and a Beijing thinktank, the China Institute of Contemporary International Relations. This has allowed government officials, and those from the US intelligence agencies, to have contact in a less formal environment.Known as "Track 1.5" diplomacy, it is the closest governments can get in conflict management without full-blown talks."We co-ordinate the war games with the state department and department of defence," said Lewis, who brokered the meetings, which took place in Beijing last June, and in Washington in December."The officials start out as observers and become participants … it is very much the same on the Chinese side. Because it is organised between two thinktanks they can speak more freely."During the first exercise, both sides had to describe what they would do if they were attacked by a sophisticated computer virus, such asStuxnet, which disabled centrifuges in Iran's nuclear programme. In the second, they had to describe their reaction if the attack was known to have been launched from the other side."The two war games have been quite amazing," said Lewis. "The first one went well, the second one not so well."The Chinese are very astute. They send knowledgeable people. We want to find ways to change their behaviour … [but] they can justify what they are doing. Their attitude is, they have experienced imperialism and they had a century of humiliation."Lewis said the Chinese have a "sense that they have been treated unfairly"."The Chinese have a deep distrust of the US. They are concerned about US military capabilities. They tend to think we have a grand strategy to preserve US hegemony and they see a direct challenge."The [Chinese officials] who favour co-operation are not as strong as the people who favour conflict."The need for the meetings has beenunderlined in recent monthsas the US and the UK have tried to increase pressure on China, which they regard as chiefly responsible for the theft of billions of dollars of plans and intellectual property from defence manufacturers, government departments, and private companies at the heart of America's national infrastructure.Analysts say this amounts to "preparation of the battlefield", and both the UK and the US have warned Beijing to expect retaliation if it continues.In recent months, the US has made clear it is turning its military focus away from Europe towards the Pacific to protect American interests in the region."Of the countries actively involved in cyber espionage, China is the only one likely to be a military competitor to the US," Lewis said."US and Chinese forces are in close proximity and there are hostile incidents … The odds of miscalculation are high, so we are trying to get a clear understanding of each side's position."Lewis believes the US is preparing to become more aggressive towards China, saying President Barack Obama has already tasked internal working groups in the White House to consider tougher sanctions.Without naming China, a senior executive in the FBI told the Guardian the threats posed from cyber attacks were alarming."We know that the capabilities of foreign states are substantial and we know the type of information that they are targeting," said Shawn Henry, executive assistant director of the FBI's cyber unit."We have seen adversaries that have been in networks for many months or even years in some cases, undetected. They have essentially had free rein over those networks … They have complete ability to disrupt that network entirely."Frank Cilluffo, who was George Bush's special assistant on homeland security, said the time had come to confront China."We need to talk about offensive capabilities to deter bad actors. You cannot expect companies to defend against foreign intelligence services. There are certain things we should do if someone is doing the cyber equivalent of intelligence preparation of the battlefield of our energy infrastructure."To me that's off grounds. That demands a response. What other incentive could there be to map our infrastructure in the event of a crisis?"We have a stronger hand in conventional military and diplomatic means. We need to show them our cards. All instruments on the table. I think we do have to start talking active defence."He said the US had to be proactive or, in time, people would start losing confidence in the integrity of the internet and computer systems."If I don't invest because I am afraid, if I don't use the web because I am afraid, if you lose trust and confidence in those systems, the bad guys have won. Checkmate."The state department refused to speak about the war games, or say which officials took part.A spokesman said: "The United States is committed to engaging countries to build a global environment in which all states recognise and adhere to norms of acceptable behaviour in cyberspace. We are engaging broadly with the Chinese government on cyber issues so that we can find common ground on these issues which have increasing importance in our bilateral relationship."The Pentagon declined to comment or say which of its officials took part in the war games.China has consistently denied being responsible for cyber attacks on the US and other western countries. It says it is also the victim of this kind of espionage.The Chinese defence minister, Liang Guanglie, has said Beijing "stands firmly against all kinds of cyber crimes"."It is hard to attribute the real source of attacks and we need to work together to make sure that this security problem won't be a problem," he said."Actually in China we also suffered quite a wide range [of], and frequent, cyber attacks. The Chinese government attaches importance also on cyber security and stands firmly against all kinds of cyber crimes. It is important for everyone to obey or follow laws and regulations in terms of cyber security."The People's Daily, the Chinese newspaper that most reflects the views of China's ruling Communist party, said last year that linking China to internet hacking attacks was irresponsible."As the number of hacking attacks on prominent international businesses and organisations has grown this year, some western media have repeatedly depicted China as the villain behind the scenes."•Explore the seven-day special series on theBattle for the internet
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIntel's first Windows 8 tablet specs unveiled with fancy new chipsets &gt;&gt; Wired.comNine-hour battery life, 3G or 4G connectivity (optional), "connected standby", 30-day standby, weight below 1.5lbs (0.7kg), &lt;9mm thick. And: 10in or 11in screens. Let's see how closely they can stick to that; ultrabooks are already suffering specification creep (in a bad way). (Thanks @rquick for the link.)How computers are creating a second economy without workers &gt;&gt; The AtlanticWhen the disappointing jobs numbers were reported last week (employers added 120,000 jobs in March, about half the number reported in the two previous months), analysts tripped over themselves looking for an explanation. Of course, jobs numbers are bound to vary, but in my view the long-term trend calls for more jobs to disappear, and the reason is clear as day: the exploding Second Economy.The Second Economy -- a term the economist Brian Arthur uses to describe the computer-intensive portion of the economy -- is, quite simply, the virtual economy. One of its main byproducts is the replacement of low-productivity workers with computers. It's growing by leaps and bounds, brimming with optimistic entrepreneurs, and spawning a new generation of billionaires. In fact, the booming Second Economy will probably drive much of the economic growth in the coming decades.The definition remains slippery, though: is EasyJet or Amazon a "second economy" company? Lots of what happens is achieved by humans; it couldn't happen without them. Instagram or Google are more like a "second economy" company, surely: far more automated.Anonymous hacker caught by FBI after girlfriend's tit-pic blunder &gt;&gt; T3The information was leaked through a website which, at the bottom, contained the image in question. By analysing the photo they were able to discover that it was taken on an iPhone and then using that, were able to find the GPS tag which is included with most images taken on smartphones today.Learning the location of the image was Austrailia they were then able to make the connection between the image and the fact that Ochoa had made several references to an Australian girlfriend.From there it was a simple matter of tracing his Facebook page through her own and then placing surveillance on him until they were satisfied to make the arrest.Simple. Ish.How former Microsoft tech chief Nathan Myhrvold could have created the iPhone &gt;&gt; GeekWireA cover story in Men's Journal, called "How a Geek Grills a Burger," casts the former Microsoft chief technology officer as a "mad scientist" living out a "nerd fantasy."He has a bestselling six-volume cookbook, he studied astrophysics with Stephen Hawking, and his giant Tyrannasaurus rex skeleton has turned his waterfront home into a tourist attraction.And yes, by the way, he tried to convince Microsoft to make the iPhone, basically, more than two decades ago.Though given that the time when he tried to suggest Microsoft do that, in 1991, you would have had to pay about $10,000 per phone, perhaps that's not such a realistic claim. Myhrvold is clearly trying to work on his public image, though, which has been tarnished by his shareholding in patent troll Intellectual Ventures.Disruptions: Innovations Like Instagram Are Tough for Large Companies &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comInsightful comment from Nick Bilton, on why Facebook didn't create Instagram - and nor did Kodak, or Apple, or Google:Even if Polaroid or Kodak could have developed Instagram, it's likely that the project would have been killed anyway. What would be the reaction of almost any executive presented with a business plan to save the company with an iPhone app that had no prospect for revenue?&lt;/pCompanies that try to change the fan belt while the engine is still moving usually end up losing a few fingers.Google BBS Terminal &gt;&gt; MasswerkHilariously brilliant: if Google had been around in the 1980s, it would be a BBS like this. With appropriate dialup noises.TuneCore: we must boycott Grooveshark. we must pressure their advertisers... &gt;&gt; Digital Music NewsThis is a battle that appears to be bleeding beyond the major labels.  We've seen the markings of a broader artist and industry backlash, and now, there's this.  The sharpest attack on Grooveshark is now coming from TuneCore CEO Jeff Price, an artist champion who spends most of this time fighting against the majors.  Yet on Friday, Price tore into the company for failing to compensate his artists and blatantly exploiting legal loopholes.  In fact, Price is now urging his massive indie and DIY community to boycott the company, and directly contact Grooveshark advertisers to pressure change.The clock is definitely ticking for Grooveshark.CIOs See Windows 8 as Possible iPad Alternative &gt;&gt; The CIO Report, WSJGreg Fell, CIO for global manufacturer Terex, is so keen to adopt Windows 8 for tablets that he has arranged with Microsoft to test a Windows 8 tablet in May. Fell, who supports 200 iPads among his 23,000 Terex workers, said he was interested in the interoperability Microsoft is promising between desktops, tablets and phones with Windows 8.Fell has another motive for scrutinizing Windows 8. He wants another viable platform to support. "We don't want Apple to be the only vendor in the enterprise," Fell said. "If BlackBerry is not going to be the strong No. 1 or No. 2, somebody else has to be, and if that's Microsoft, that's good for us and competition."Does assume that enterprises will be using Windows 8 and Windows Phone on smartphones. The latter may not be such a safe assumption.Google's evil stock split &gt;&gt; Felix SalmonReuters financial blogger Salmon points out that what Google is proposing was outlawed for large chunks of the 20th century, and creates shareholders who have no say in the company's running:My key problem with the proposal is that it's being pushed through without common shareholders being given the opportunity to object. I would be OK with it if it was being voted on a one-share, one-vote basis. But instead, Google's Troika has decided that having ten times the votes of any other shareholder isn't good enough for them, and that what they really want is a whole new class of shareholders -- including new employees -- who have no votes in the company at all.Boeing to jump into the mobile phone business &gt;&gt; National Defense Magazine blogCompetitors offering similar secure, encrypted devices are charging $15,000 to $20,000 per device and are using proprietary software and hardware, Palma said."We are going to drive down towards a lower price point, but ... not mass-market price point," he said referring to iPhones, BlackBerries and other consumer market smartphones."We believe that there is significant interest in the defense side as well as the intelligence side and in the commercial world as well," Palma said.YANF - Yet Another Android Fork. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
A selection of 13 new apps for you today:Rough Guides for Windows PhoneTravel-guide publisher Rough Guides has released its first six Windows Phone apps, providing guides for Rome, Amsterdam, New York, Paris, London and Barcelona. All include maps, schedule-builders and the ability to pin a particular points-of-interest list to the Windows Phone homescreen as a live tile.Windows PhonePay WithDesigned by a speech and language therapist working with an apps developer, Pay With aims to help adults with intellectual disabilities to calculate and pay for goods in shops: inputting a number to be shown which notes will cover the costs. It currently supports currency in the UK, Europe, US and New Zealand.iPhone / iPadLazyTown's Friends Forever BooClipChildren's TV show LazyTown has a new iPad app that offers a storybook starring Stephanie, Sportacus and their puppet friends. Expect video clips, animation, puzzles and music from the show.iPadEnjoy EnglandVisit England has launched this app for tourists and natives alike in England, spotlighting more than 10,000 day-out ideas and attractions. It pulls in tips and recommendations from The Guardian too, while enabling users to upload their own photos and reviews of places.AndroidDeath Rally FreeDeveloper Remedy has brought its popular Death Rally game to Android as a free download: the idea being still to race rivals while blowing them up. The money comes from in-app purchases to level up cars and weapons.AndroidRewind.Me (Foursquare Edition)Rewind.Me is an interesting iPhone app that sucks in your Foursquare check-in history then lets you dig into it, browsing by date, location and category of place. If friends sign up and opt in, you can do the same for their history too.iPhoneAirhockey for iPiecesThis game from Jumbo is the latest iPad app designed to work with a physical peripheral – in this case, air hockey strikers to batter a virtual puck around the screen. The game is free, but the iPieces are expected to sell for $9.99.iPadRadiant DefenseThere's a lot of excitement around Radiant Defense, a new tower defence game for Windows Phone that features more than 300 waves of aliens to battle, upgradeable weapons and eye-blasting neon visuals.Windows PhoneYorkshire Post FootballNewspaper the Yorkshire Post has launched a standalone iPhone app for its football coverage, offering news, tweets, live text commentary and stats from the region's teams.iPhoneSnapfishBuying a photo-sharing startup? HP did it back in 2005 with Snapfish, long before Instagram was a glint in Mark Zuckerberg's eye. Now there's a new Snapfish app for Android to help the service's users access and share their photo collections on the go.AndroidKaleidoscope: Fashion InspiredThe buzzwords are all here: "Kaleidoscope is a fashion inspiration and shopping app. It's like a combination of Pinterest, street style and Shopstyle." The idea being that the company's fashion editors snap and choose images of hot clobber, which can then be browsed in the app, and shared to Twitter, Facebook and Pinterest.iPhone / iPadCreative KnittingKnitting isn't just for nans nowadays, and that's reflected by the launch of Creative Knitting magazine on Apple's iOS Newsstand. Expect stitch guides, technical tips and more than two dozen projects to start in each issue.iPhone / iPadParenting's Things That Robots SpellThis educational iPhone app is the work of Endemol's US division, based on an existing e-book called When Things Go Wrong With Robots. It offers more than 50 words for children to learn to spell.iPhone
Google has been fined $25,000 for impeding a US investigation into its collection of wireless network data for its Street View project, which allows users to see street level images when they map a location.The Federal Communications Commission imposed the fine late on Friday, saying Google had collected personal information without permission and had then deliberately not co-operated with the FCC's investigation.The company collected the data between 2007 and 2010, when a car driving around various locations in the US and, later, Europe, took photos of locations from public places – but also collected information from unprotected Wi-Fi networks, including the location, name and in some cases the content including emails.The FCC's investigation was left unresolved,according to the New York Times, because one key participant – the Google engineer in charge of the project – cited Fifth Amendement rights and declined to talk to it. The US constitution's Fifth Amendment protects the right to silence of someone accused by the government of a crime."Google refused to identify any employees or produce any emails. The company could not supply compliant declarations without identifying employees it preferred not to identify," said an FCC order dated 13 April. "Misconduct of this nature threatens to compromise the commission's ability to effectively investigate possible violations of the Communications Act and the commission's rules."Google said at the time that the collection of data from the networks was an error and suggested it was down to an error by those in charge of the information collection. But according to the New York Times, the engineer says that others further up at Google must have known of what was happening.The discovery of the data collection caused a storm when it was revealed in 2010. European data protection agencies reacted in different ways, with the Irish and UK commissioners suggesting Google should destroy the data without penalty, while in Germany they said they would need to examine it to determine whether any crime had been committed.In the US, the FCC tried to make a similar determination, as did the consumer-focused Federal Trade Commission. The FTC closed its inquiry, while the FCC considered whether there had been a breach of the US Communications Act's clauses on wiretapping.In the end it determined that it had not, because there was no precedent for applying it to Wi-Fi communications.Google said in a statement that it had turned over information to the agency and challenged the finding that it was unco-operative. "As the FCC notes in their report, we provided all the materials the regulators felt they needed to conclude their investigation and we were not found to have violated any laws," the company said in a statement. "We disagree with the FCC's characterisation of our co-operation in their investigation and will be filing a response."Between May 2007 and May 2010, Google collected data from Wi-Fi networks throughout the US and across the world as part of its Street View project, which gives users of Google Map and Google Earth the ability to view street-level images of structures and land adjacent to roads and highways.But Google also collected passwords, internet usage history and other sensitive personal data that was not needed for its location database project, the FCC said.Google publicly acknowledged in May 2010 that it had collected the so-called "payload data".
In the opaque world of Chinese censorship, a few red lines shine through the murk. One of the clearest is: no gossip about top political leaders, their families or internal party affairs.But just as the authorities had vowed to tame China's rumbustious microblogs, they have seen an unprecedented wave of speculation and comment on the most sensitive subjects: political infighting, lurid allegations of murder and even (unfounded) claims of a coup.State attempts to control the web, including stern admonitions, large-scale deletions, real-name registration, website closures and even detentions have failed to rein in users. More intriguingly, some of the most startling rumours have proved at least partially true – leading some to wonder whether this is simply a battle between bold users and anxious censors, or something more complex.The bombshells dropped by officials late on Tuesday – thatthe high-profile leadership contender Bo Xilai was suspended from his key political posts and that his wife, Gu Kailai, had been detained for the suspected murder of the British businessman Neil Heywood– mark China's biggest political upheaval for years. Yet microbloggers have received advance warning of almost every development in the unfolding scandal. Users detected the event that triggered it – the flight of Bo's ally and former police chief, Wang Lijun, to a US consulate – two days before the official admission. A post predicting Bo's dismissal as party secretary of Chongqing circulated widely two hours before the announcement. And claims that Gu had poisoned a Briton called Heywood emerged weeks before Tuesday's official statement."Because of the rumours of political struggle it has got hotter and hotter. You can't see any sign of people being unwilling to spread them," said Chinese writer and avid microblogger Michael Anti.International attention tends to focus on the Great Firewall, which stops Chinese citizens from reading sensitive content overseas, and constraints put on familiar western brands – theblocking of social media services such as Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, or the Chinese government's clash with Google, which saw theinternet giant relocate search services to Hong Kongrather than continue to censor results.But the world's largest internet population is far more interested in what happens on domestic sites – and particularly the"weibo"or microblog services, which boast about 300 million registered users. Microblogs, particularly Sina's Weibo, are where the clash of political controls, commercial interests and the urge of millions to share their thoughts on official scandals, or just last night's TV, play out."Weibo plays a much more important role in China than Twitter in the west, because of the heavy censorship imposed by the regime on the other media," said Beijing-based scholar Michel Bonnin. "Weibo is also censored and cannot be considered a free public sphere but it is still the place where exchange of information is the most developed in China, and even traditional and official media are forced to go through it to have a real impact on the public. It is also the only place where the receptors of information can react and influence the circulation of information."Official anxiety about the repercussions has become increasingly evident. Some think the authorities might have shut down microblogs entirely if they did not fear the backlash. Others suggest they see them as both threat and opportunity."This is the most internet-savvy government in the whole world. It's not only about censorship," said Anti. "In a country where there is no democracy it's the best way to understand what people are really thinking."It is also a useful for propaganda: Xinhua reported in December that there were at least 20,000 official accounts. "The Chinese Communist party always believes in occupying and utilising the ground, not destroying it," said Anti.Last year's explosion in microblog use surprised everyone and may in itself have alarmed officials. But many believe that it was the angry and prolonged online reaction to a high-speedtrain crash in Wenzhouthat prompted the government to tighten controls.Three months later,a meeting of top leadersagreed that officials must work on "strengthening the channelling andcontrol of social mediaand real-time communication tools". A short while later, officials announced mandatory real-name registration for microblogs in Beijing and Shenzhen – where the two biggest services, run by Sina and Tencent, are based – and several other cities. Officials have since said it will be rolled out nationally."It is basically a public warning. Everyone knows the authorities could know all your information if they want to know it – there are no secrets for Chinese netizens who use the internet. They want the chilling effect," said Anti.It is unusual for people to be detained purely for critical online comments but last week's crackdown on unfounded rumours of a coup – which included at least six detentions – rammed home the message. "I think the measure is unlikely to impact the well-known microbloggers, who are under a lot of monitoring anyway; it's also unlikely to deter those who really want their voices heard, like petitioners, or victims of housing rights abuses," said Songlian Wang, of Chinese Human Rights Defenders."But it is likely to make those whistleblowers who hold critical information about human rights violations in their workplace or their village... think twice before posting anything online because of fear of reprisal."Yet so far real-name registration appears largely unenforced, with many existing users able to post comments long past the 16 March deadline without proving their identities.A spokesman for Sina said it was implementing the policy but it is not hard to see why companies might want to buy time. At the peak of growth last year, Sina was registering 20m new Weibo accounts a month; but Chinese media say that fell to about 3m in January, shortly afterreal-name registration was announced."We can't guarantee that stricter policies won't appear later on. This will impact the growth of our user base and negatively effect user activity," the chief executive, Charles Chao, has warned, according to Voice of America.A noticecited by China Digital Timesoutlined other official measures, including pre-publication moderation of posts by blacklisted users or those with more than 100,000 followers; 24/7 monitoring and rapid deletion of "illegal or harmful" posts; and requirements to store user data and supply it to police. While the document could not be independently verified, parts of it – particularly its focus on influential users – chime with what is already known about controls."We always focus on automated censorship. But I think a lot of it is hands-on – and has to be," said David Bandurski of Hong Kong University's China Media Project.As users become more skillful at evading controls such as keyword blocks – throughcoded references, analogies or perhaps by posting photographs of text – censors must step up their efforts. Bandurski said he had seen image-only posts deleted within minutes. The speed of that response also suggests a growing number of monitors. While state censors issue directives on unacceptable content and monitor firms' performance, theyoutsource most of the work to the companiesthemselves.CompellingNo one knows exactly how many people are watching Weibo, but Sina's staff surged from 2,800 in late 2010 to 5,000 a year later, with most new staff working on the microblog. Monitors will flag up or delete sensitive posts, and may even call particular users to warn them to avoid certain issues.But while firms cannot afford to seriously upset the government, they need a lively, compelling environment to keep users interested. And while the biggest names may be entertainment stars, social debates and current affairs add spice to the mix.Bandurski compares the deletion of microblogs to "chalklines around a body that is not there". They offer hints of what the government is worrying most about: thefirst large-scale quantitative study of Sina Weibo, by researchers at Carnegie Mellon University, found that up to 53% of locally generated posts were deleted in Tibet, against just 12% in Beijing. While many deletions were non-political – to tackle spam, for instance – the high regional variation is telling.And censorship goes beyond deletions: microblogs frequently block searches for particular words and, increasingly, lock posts so that only their authors can see them.In recent weeks, observers have found what has appeared or remained on microblogs even more intriguing than what has been removed. WhenChongqing sought to cover up the police chief's flight to the US consulate, it did so via an Orwellian statement on its microblog saying Wang Lijun was stressed and undergoing "vacation-style treatment".Late the following day, the official Communist party newspaper's microblog promised more news of Wang – heralding an official contradiction of Chongqing's line: the deputy mayor had indeed gone to the US consulate and was now under investigation."We [saw] Chongqing with Bo Xilai in his seat and able to use the media [there] at his disposal. Then we have People's Daily under someone else – and even People's Daily can reflect quite fractious influences in itself," explained Bandurski.Normally, a scandal involving a senior figure would quickly spur censors into action. Yet gossip about Wang Lijun and Bo ricocheted around microblogs for days before removal. Some wonder whether officials were caught on the hop – or were happy to see such claims circulate."From the very beginning, leaks were not deleted at all on Weibo. It was almost like it was happening in the US or UK. Was that freedom of speech? No. The central government was intentionally not blocking a particular case to mobilise people to get rid of their own obstacles," suggested Anti.More curious still is the emergence of Neil Heywood's death. Britain's announcement that it had asked China to reinvestigate was prompted by rumours circulating on microblogs that Gu Kailai had poisoned a Briton. While it is understood that Wang had made the allegation to US officials, and presumably to the Chinese authorities investigating him, how the spate of claims surfaced remains unclear.It is easy to overestimate the coherence of the censorship system. Not all anomalies are deliberate; even China's state news agency Xinhua appears to have been temporarily gagged on Tuesday, when it sought to announce the news about Bo and Gu on its microblog as well as its website. It blamed the delay in the post's appearance on Sina being "too honest", in a message that later disappeared.In any case, however, the unfolding of the scandal has served factional interests, it has been fuelled by thousands of ordinary microbloggers."Even though [this kind of discussion] is constantly managed and deleted and 'harmonised' – it's there in a way it wasn't before. The stench of China's politics is more apparent to everyone because of social media," said Bandurski.The government has justified controls by training its fire on pernicious "rumours", lambasted by state media as "worse than cocaine". On the night that the state broadcaster announced Bo's political demise, it also carried a prominent news segment with executives from Sina, Tencent and Baidu personally pledging to support the government's campaign.But in a system where so much information remains off-limits, what constitutes a "rumour" is a political choice as much as a matter of fact – as is increasingly obvious to ordinary users."Microblogs are the best weapon to reduce corruption, improve social governance and make officials behave well," wrote Chinese scholar Chen Zhiwu, who now teaches at Yale. "The more the official complains, the better microblogs are."Beside, critics say, it is control not laxity that breeds rumours; censorship that breeds distrust. As news of the Fukushima nuclear crisis spread last year, Chinese consumers rushed to buy iodised salt in the mistaken belief it protected against radiation. State media's accurate declarations that the supply was safe, while eating excess salt was dangerous, appear to have merely spurred sales. As the old joke goes, it's not true until the government denies it."Hegel once said wisdom was like an owl, and that it took flight only at dusk. But his was a nation of philosophy,"wrote scholar Wu Jiaxiangrecently. "Here in our country, we have no owls, only bats. Those bats are rumours, and they take flight after midnight from the microblogs that are their caves."The post was swiftly deleted.
中国的言论审查是让人难以琢磨的，但其中也有几条较为明确的规则。其中最明确的包括不得议论最高领导层及其家属，不得猜测共产党党内事务。正当中国当局誓言约束谣言四起的微博环境之时，一股前所未有的猜测评论浪潮正在掀起，谈得正欢的还是最为敏感的话题：政治内讧、绘声绘色的谋杀指控、甚至是(没有根据的)政变传言。政府采取的任何手段，包括严厉的警告、大规模删除、实名注册、关闭网站、甚至是拘押涉嫌人员都无法让微博用户们听话。更值得玩味的是，有些最为惊人的谣言后来被确定至少部分准确，让人们开始怀疑这到底是胆大的用户与急切的审查者之间的斗争呢，还是别有内情？上周二政府发布了一项惊人的新闻：曾是最高领导层接班人选之一的薄熙来从重要领导岗位上被撤了下来，他的夫人薄谷开来则被拘押，怀疑卷入谋杀英国商人尼尔·海伍德一案，这一消息是多年来中国最大的政治震荡。然而这一政治丑闻中几乎每一项发展，似乎都事先能在微博上看到。微博用户最早察觉到了整个事件的导火索：曾经是薄熙来盟友的前重庆公安局长王立军逃亡美国驻成都领事馆，比官方消息早了两天。在薄熙来被撤除重庆市委书记一职消息公布前两小时，一条预测此项公布的微博已经广为传播。而薄谷开来毒杀一位名叫伍德的英国人的传言，在周二官方宣布的好几个星期前就已经出现。中国作者和微博名人安替指出："因为有关政治斗争，这些谣言变得越来越炙手可热，没有任何迹象表明人们不愿意传播这些谣言。"国际上对中国互联网的关注，多数集中在中国通过设置防火墙禁止中国用户阅读海外网站上的敏感资料，以及因此造成的对西方知名网络品牌如脸书(Facebook)、推特(Twitter)和YouTube在中国推广的制约，再加上中国政府与谷歌的冲突造成谷歌决定将中国总部迁到香港以避免继续接受审查等等。但是在中国，这一世界上最大的互联网用户群用得更多的，是一些国内网站，特别是"微博"服务，据称已有约三亿注册用户。微博才是各种消息的传播和演化中心：政治控制上的冲突、各种商业信息和推广活动、以及成千上人对各种官方丑闻的踊跃评论，或者仅仅是评论昨晚的电视等等。居住在北京的一位学者潘鸣啸(Michel Bonnin)说："相对于西方的推特来说，微博在中国的地位更为重要，原因是对其它媒体的审查非常严。""微博也是被审查的，不能认为它是一个自由的公共空间。但是在中国，微博仍然是信息交流最为发达的平台，即使是传统媒体和官方媒体也不得不通过微博来对公众产生真正的影响。而且它还是唯一一个受众可以对信息作出反应并影响信息传播的平台。"官方对微博影响力的忧虑正变得越来越明显，有人认为如果不是担心可能产生的反弹的话，官方可能已经关闭了整个微博平台，另一些人认为官方既把微博看作是一种威胁，也认为它是一种机遇。"中国政府是世界上对互联网最为精通的政府"，安替认为，"在一个没有民主的国家，互联网是了解民众真实想法的最佳途径。"互联网还是一个有用的宣传媒体，据新华社在去年12月报道，微博上至少有两万个各级政府的官方帐号。安替说："中国政府从来都相信必须占领和使用阵地，而不是将其消灭。"去年微博出现了爆炸式的发展，这让许多人惊讶，也许也惊动了政府。但是许多人相信，网络上对温州动车相撞事件产生的愤怒持久的反应触发了政府对微博控制的强化。事件过后三个月，在一次最高领导层的会议上，同意了政府必须"强化对社会媒体和实时通讯工具的利用与控制"。很快官方即宣布在北京和深圳对微博进行强制性实名制，两个最大的微博服务机构，新浪和腾讯，正是分别在这两个城市和其它一些地方运行的。稍后官方宣布这一措施将在全国范围内实施。安替说："这基本上就是一个公开的警告。现在每个人都明白了，如果官方想做的话，他们就可以知道你的所有个人信息。中国网民已经没有秘密藏身之处，官方要的就是这种令你胆寒的效果。"现在已经很少发生仅仅因为在网上发布批判言论而被拘捕的事了，但是在上星期打击散布北京政变谣言的行动中，有六人被逮捕。这一行动传达出的信息是清晰无误的。维权网的王松连说："我认为这些措施对那些知名微博用户来说不可能有太大作用，因为他们已经被严密监视了；对那些执着地要发出自己声音的人，比如上访者或是拆迁纠纷的受害者等，也不会起太大作用。""但是对于那些潜在的举报者，那些从他们的工作岗位上或是就在他们所住的村子里掌握了侵犯人权行为的关键信息的人……在网上发布任何消息之前，都不得不考虑一下因此可能遭遇的报复。"然而微博实名制看来并未对现有用户强制实施，在3月16日期限过后，许多没有提供实名资料的用户依然可以发布微博。新浪的一位发言人称新浪正在执行政策。但是不难理解为什么网络公司想拖延时间。在去年的高峰期，新浪每月有两千万新用户注册，但是据中国媒体报道，在微博实名制公布之后不久，今年一月份的新注册用户跌到了三百万。据美国之音报道，新浪CEO曹国伟表示："我们不能保证今后不会出台更为严厉的措施。这些措施将会对我们的用户群造成影响，并对有效的用户活动产生负面作用。"一份在中国数字时代网站上公布的通知中，还列举了其它一些官方措施，包括在微博发布之前进行修改，这一措施将针对已列入黑名单的、或是粉丝超过10万的微博用户；二十四小时全程监视并迅速删除任何"违法或有害"的微博；存贮用户资料并随时提供给警方等。尽管这份文件无法通过独立渠道进行核实，但是其中的部份内容，特别是对有影响力用户的重点关注，与现已知道的一些控制手法相符。香港大学中国传媒研究计划的班志远(David Dandurski)表示："我们一直都集中关注软件实现的自动审查措施，但我认为其中有许多目前是、也必须是通过人工完成的。"用户在逃避关键词审查上变得越来越精明，常常采用暗指、类比或是干脆把文字制成图片等手段，审查也得随之提高水平。班志远说他曾经见过一个只带文字图片的微博在几分钟内即被删除。删除的速度达到这样的水平也说明了审查者人数的增加。当政府审查员向网络公司传达指引，指定必须删除的内容并监督网络公司表现时，他们往往把发现和审查的大部分任务交给网络公司执行。没有人知道到底有多少人在监视新浪微博，但是新浪员工人数从2010年下半年的2800人增加到了2011年底的5000人，其中大部分新员工是在微博部门工作。审查者会标识或删除有敏感信息的微博，有时甚至会通知发微博的人，警告他们避免谈论某些话题。然而虽然网络公司不敢得罪政府，它们也需要一个活跃、吸引人的环境来让用户保持兴趣。在微博上虽然还是娱乐明星名气最大，但同时对社会议题和新闻时事的讨论也能够提供热点话题。班志远把被删除的微博比作在犯罪现场"用粉笔勾出的人体轮廓"。它们给研究什么是政府最为担心的议题提供了线索。由美国卡内基梅隆大学的研究人员对新浪微博所做的首次大规模量化研究发现，在西藏地区，本地微博中有53%被删除了，而在北京这个数字只有12%。虽然大部分被删除的微博无关政治，比如说是一些垃圾信息，微博删除率在地区上的巨大差异也是很能说明问题的。审查已不仅仅意味着删除，微博服务经常封闭对某些关键词的搜索，而且越来越多的做法是封闭某些微博，不让微博作者以外的人看到。在最近一段时间内，观察家们还发现，哪些微博出现、哪些微博被保留甚至比哪些微博被删除更耐人寻味。当重庆方面试图掩盖王立军逃往美国领事馆这一事件时，它的官方帐号发布了一条王立军因精神压力太大正在接受"休假式治疗"的微博，颇有奥威尔小说的风格。第二天中国共产党党报的微博帐号称将会有与王立军有关的新闻公布，传达了一个和重庆方面矛盾的官方消息：王立军副市长确实曾逃往美国领事馆，并正在接受调查。班志远解释说："我们看到薄熙来在他的领地上可以将那里的官方媒体为其所用。然后《人民日报》又被其他人所用，即使在《人民日报》上也能看到不同势力的影响。"一般来说，一桩涉及高级官员的丑闻会立即触发对相关内容的审查，然而有关王立军和薄熙来的谣言在微博上流传了好多天之后才被删除。有些人开始猜测到底是官方被此事弄得措手不及、还是对这些谣言的传播乐见其成？安替认为："从一开始，各种泄露出来的消息出现在新浪微博上，根本没有人管，让人觉得仿佛是身处美国或是英国。这是言论自由吗？不是。这是中央政府故意不封锁某一事件的消息，这样就可以调动民情，以利于搞掉他们的眼中钉。"英国商人尼尔·海伍德之死一案的出现更让人好奇。在微博上出现谣言声称薄谷开来毒死一个英国人之后，英国政府宣布已要求中国政府重新调查海伍德的死因。据称王立军曾向美国领事馆官员通报这一指控，假设他在接受中央政府调查时也做了汇报，但这一消息是如何传播到网上的，依然是一个谜。有时候人们未免高估审查者的协同能力，并不是所有审查中的异常现象都是故意的。在本周二，连中国国家通讯社新华社的微博帐号似乎都被临时封闭了，起因是新华社在自己的网站上发布了有关薄熙来被撤职、薄谷开来被收审的消息的同时，又在微博上发布同样消息。它声称这条消息在新浪微博上被延迟发布的原因是"太诚实"，不过这条微博后来也被删除了。不论如何，这一政治丑闻中各种事件的传播，尽管符合某些势力分支的利益，但同时也是因为成千上万普通微博用户的参与推动。班志远说："尽管有关这类事件的讨论不停地被控制、被删除、被'和谐'，它们的出现还是跟过去大不相同了。因为社会媒体的出现，对普通人来说，中国政治的丑恶越来越明显。"中国政府在为自己对网络的控制进行辩护时，往往把焦点集中在那些被政府媒体称为"比毒品还坏" 的有害的"谣言"。当官方传媒公布薄熙来被打倒的消息的同时，它还在显著地位播出了一条新浪、腾讯和百度的领导人表示支持政府行动的新闻。但是在一个有许多信息不容触及的社会，"谣言"的定义不仅仅要看是不是符合事实，有时还要看是否符合政治需要，这一定义对普通用户来说越来越明显。"微博是降低腐败、改善社会治理、促进权力者从好的最好良器。" 在美国耶鲁大学执教的中国学者陈志武这么写道，"官员们越抱怨，不正好越说明微博好吗？"对审查持批评态度的人士还指出，正是控制舆论，而非放松管制，才使大批谣言出笼，审查制度只会造成不信任感。去年当日本核电站发生泄漏危机时，许多中国消费者涌去抢购碘盐，错误地以为食用碘盐可以防辐射。政府急忙宣布食品供应是安全的，过量食用碘盐有危险，其效果却是反而让抢购之风更盛。正如一个老笑话所形容的：没有什么新闻是真的，除非政府出面否认。"黑格尔把谣言比作猫头鹰，要等黄昏到来，才会起飞。那是哲学的国度"，中国学者吴稼祥最近写道，"我们这个国家，可没有什么猫头鹰，只有蝙蝠，蝙蝠是谣言，到半夜才出动，微博就是它的洞穴。"这条微博很快被删除了。
In 1995, four years after Estonia broke free from the USSR, Toomas Hendrik Ilves read a "very Luddite" book by  Jeremy Rifkin called The End of Work. "It argued that with greater computerisation there would be fewer jobs," remembered Ilves, then a senior diplomat,now the country's president, "which from his point of view was terrible."Ilves and many of his colleagues saw it differently. In a tiny (population: 1.4 million) and newly independent country like Estonia, politicians realised computers could help quickly compensate for both a minuscule workforce and a chronic lack of physical infrastructure.Seventeen years on, the internet has done more than just help. It is now tightly entwined with Estonia's identity. "For other countries, the internet is just another service, like tap water, or clean streets," said Linnar Viik, a lecturer at the Estonian IT College, a government adviser and aman almost synonymous in Estonia with the rise of the web."But for young Estonians, the internet is a manifestation of something more than a service – it's a symbol of democracy and freedom."To see why, you just have to go outside. Free Wi-Fi is everywhere, and has been for a decade.Viik says you could walk 100 miles – from the pastel-coloured turrets here in medieval Tallinn to the university spires of Tartu – and never lose internet connection."We realised that if the government was going to use the internet, the internet had to be available to everybody," Viik said. "So we built a huge network of public internet access points for people who couldn't afford them at home."The country took a similar approach to education. By 1997, thanks to a campaign led in part by Ilves, a staggering97% of Estonian schools already had internet. Now 42 Estonian services are now managed mainly through the internet. Last year, 94% of tax returns were made online, usually within five minutes. You canvote on your laptop(at the last election, Ilves did it from Macedonia) and sign legal documents on a smartphone. Cabinet meetings have been paperless since 2000.Doctors only issue prescriptions electronically, while in the main cities you can pay by text for bus tickets, parking, and – in some cases – a pint of beer. Not bad for country where, two decades ago,half the population had no phone line.Central to the Estonian project is the ID card, introduced in 2002. Nine in 10 Estonians have one, and – by slotting it into their computer – citizens can use their card to vote online, transfer money and access all the information the state has on them."There's nothing on the ID card itself, because that could be dangerous if you lost it," says Katrin Pärgmäe, who is in charge of public awareness at RIA, thecountry's internet authority."It only gives you access to the database if you type in the right code."You can also present the card at the pharmacy to pick up a prescription. On public transport, it doubles as a ticket.Many people also have special ID chips on their mobile sim cards that allow them to pay people by text.To a British audience, the ID card will have a whiff of Big Brother. But many Estonians argue the opposite: that it allows them to keep tabs on the state, rather than the other way round."You'd think, given our history, we'd have a problem with it," said Ilves, in an oblique reference to the days when the KGB had an office down a cobbled street in central Tallinn."But I feel much more secure with a digital ID. If anyone goes into my files, they're flagged. Whereas if my files – which would exist anyway – were made of paper, no one would know who was looking at them."Every Estonian can see who has visited their data, and they can challenge any suspicious behaviour. In one famous case, a policewoman was caught accessing information about her boyfriend.During a recent election campaign, a candidate was swiftly punished for accessing personal information about would-be constituents. "I don't know what the idiot was thinking," said Viik. "You can't hide."To an outsider, it is not immediately clear why Estonia took to the internet so much faster than its Baltic cousins, Latvia and Lithuania. All three won independence at the same time. All three needed quick ways of revamping their ailing infrastructure. But to Estonians, the reason is simple. Estonia has a sizeable Russian-speaking minority, but the country's ethnic Estonian majority feel Nordic, rather than Slavic or eastern European. In the early 90s, this meant they looked to tech-happy Scandinavia for both inspiration and investment.Those Finnish and Swedish businesses that did invest expected their Estonian counterparts to communicate by email rather than fax.And pretty soon it was the newcomers who were leading the way."I remember when one of our banks was bought by a Swedish one, they came over and said: 'And now we're going to teach you how to do computer banking'," recalled Ilves. "And we said, 'well, you might want to look at what we're actually doing with computer banking ourselves.'" At the last count, 99% of Estonian bank transfers were online.It helped that many politicians in the early 90s were unusually quick to "get" the internet. "The people in power after the collapse of the Soviet Union were really young," said Jaan Tallinn, the co-founder of Skype, the Estonian internet telephone company, and a co-developer of file-sharingwebsite Kazaa. "They knew what was going on."Mart Laar was 32 when he became prime minister in 1992. Ilves is slightly older, but had learned to code as a child, growing up in exile in the US."I thought if I can do it, anyone can," he said in his strong New Jersey accent. "I was completely at ease with computers."The internet was also seen as a buffer to Russia."We were afraid that Russian armies might take down the TV tower, the central radio station, or newspaper press," said Viik."Three addresses shut down, and we would have been disconnected from the rest of the world."But the internet would still work – and so we realised that this would be a great way of keeping in touch with the world in case of emergency."Ironically, when an attack did finally come, it came via the internet – and promptly disconnected Estonia from the rest of the world.In 2007, the government infuriated its Russian-speaking minority by moving a Soviet war memorial from central Tallinn to a cemetery on the city's outskirts. Violence flared on the streets, and later reached the internet. The first cyberattack was simplistic, and easily dealt with: thousands of unknown individuals bombarding government, media and banking websites with "denial of service" (DoS) attacks."It was like an internet riot," said Hillar Aarelaid, who led Estonia's response, at the time.But what started as an emotional backlash soon became a far larger, longer and better co-ordinated assault on Estonia's very being.It lasted three weeks and could only be contained by restricting internet traffic in and out of the country. It was, in effect, a cybersiege."This is how a lot of myths were created," remembered Pärgmäe. "Those outside the country couldn't access Estonian websites, but they didn't realise that people inside still could."Rumours circulated about the collapse of the Estonian online banking system, and how people were struggling to buy groceries. "But actually the longest downtime for a bank's website was just one and a half hours."The debacle had two positive effects. First:Nato founded a cyberwarfare thinktank in Estonia, to learn from the experience. Second: the government set up theCyber Defence League, a network of 100 volunteers from the cybersector who, among other roles, will form – a kind of territorial army during future strife."Traditionally in western countries," said Ilves, "you've had a weekend-warrior thing where volunteers run off into the woods and do target practice. In Estonia, we have a unit of IT people from banks, software companies who in their spare time for one day a week work on cyber issues."This kind of collaboration between private and public sectors was also central to Estonian innovation in the 90s, Viik claims."The government started several IT programmes as a catalyst," he said. "But only in a few was it the main sponsor. From the early days, government philosophy was not to hire programmers, but to use the services of private companies, which in turn increased the competitiveness of the Estonian IT sector."Case in point: the ID card. "It's private companies who developed and manage the service – and who can now export their new-found competencies to other countries."Viik argues that this benefits both the private sector and the state, who otherwise would not have the resources for ID card technology.But some think the overlap between occasionally threatens Estonia's open internet.For many years, each Estonian citizen had the right to a free domain name. As in the UK, they could not register top-level domain names – but they could bag a ".pri.ee" site, similar to a ".co.uk" site in Britain. In 2010, that changed: the government outsourced the responsibility of allocating domain names to private registrars. The pri.ee domains were abolished, and individuals were instead given the right to top-level ".ee" websites. The only catch was a £15 price-tag – one of the highest rates in Europe.Manyacademics and high-profile techies were outraged, and some founded a pressure group – the Estonian Internet Community (EIC) – that campaigns to give ordinary citizens more of a say in how Estonia's internet is run. After public outcry, a new set of free domain-names - era.ee - were introduced.More generally, it is feared that the same politicians who had such enlightened attitudes to the internet in the 90s may be starting to lose their progressive edge."They're still in power," said Jaan Tallinn, "but I'm not sure they still understand what's going on. Technology keeps progressing. Young people follow the curve. But as they get older they get inertia, and they start deviating from that curve."Ilves himself is fairly critical of parts ofActa, the hugely controversial international agreement that opponents fear will curtail the rights of individual internet users.But there is a perception that other politicians could be doing more to oppose its introduction."It's difficult because it's actually an EU agreement," admitted Jaagup Irve, a PhD student at the Tallinn University of Technology, and an EIC board member. "But the government isn't doing enough to stop Acta."Viik says that among politicians of all stripes there has always been "a silent consensus" about the importance of the internet. For many years, Estonians could expect whomever they elected to have the best interests of the internet at heart.But Irve thinks the public can no longer be so complacent. "People think a government is like a smart missile: the thing practically flies itself," he argued."But today it's more like a bomb that we have to guide. We have to guide the government, and that's what the internet society has woken up to."• Explore the seven-day special series on theBattle for the internet• This article was amended on 17 April 2012 to clarify details of the registration and selling of domain names.
Unlike other media, the internet in Russia, has developed largely untouched by the arm of the state. The  protests  have prompted many to wonder: is that about to change?"It's too late to change things," said Anton Nossik, an internet guru. "Kids are now born into the internet and grew up in the internet. Like it or not, you have to embrace it."That is the view of most internet observers in Russia: that it's too late, and too technologically complicated, to institute a China-style firewall. Yet the government is infamous for its attention to propaganda, and for the power of its suspicious spy services, and there are signs that it is seeking to boost its ability to control the internet.Opposition bloggers and activists have already come under attack from the state, via prosecutors and the Federal Security Service (FSB), the main successor agency to the KGB. Some have been arrested, others called in for questioning. Websites have been shut by spurious means. But for now, it has been an entirely ad hoc approach."There is no strategy. They don't know what to do," said Andrei Soldatov, an expert on Russia's security services.Current and former officials in the FSB and other security service  have been at the forefront of calls for an internet crackdown. With Putin's return to the presidency next month, their power and influence is only expected to grow.Late last month, the FSB deputy director called for a purge of the Russian blogosphere's western influences, echoing Putin's line that Russia's discontent is being fomented from abroad. Sergei Smirnov said, during a regional security conference, western secret services were using "new technologies" to "create and maintain constant tension in societies"The goal is serious – up to deposing the political regime that has existed in these countries," Smirnov said. "We know that the problem of the Arab spring, the problem of revolutions that occurred on the African coast, they all faced it."Society must defend itself. If the enemy uses 'dirty' technology, we need to purge the space from such activity in some way," he said.The calls for internet regulation began one week after the first major anti-government protest erupted in December in the wake of a contested parliamentary vote. Nikolai Patrushev, the head of Russia's security council and former head of the FSB, cited China, as well as the United States, as an example of "reasonable regulation" of the internet."Attempts to stop people communicating are in principle counter-productive and even immoral. But we cannot ignore the use of the internet by criminals and terrorist groups," Patrushev said at the time.That is the line taken by Putin himself, a man who has admitted to hardly ever using the internet, even forgoing computers in order to write texts by hand. He has publicly stood up for internet freedom several times, while warning of the web's pernicious side.That is what government critics fear most –that the state will not adopt an explicitly anti-internet strategy, but use existing and new laws to crack down instead. They point to the country's widely used "anti-extremism law", a policy adopted ostensiblyIslamist and nationalist crime and terrorism, but which has been used with abandon against the country's liberal opposition activists, environmentalists and gay rights campaigners.Russia's interior minister said last week that his ministry would soon  open a department focusing on extremism in "electronic media". The justice ministry has already banned about 1,000 websites from being viewed in Russia – from Islamist terror networks to illegal music downloading sites – all under the anti-extremism law.In the latest case of the law's use against bloggers, prosecutors opened a criminal investigation into an opposition figure in February after he wrote a post discussing the possibility of holding unsanctioned opposition protests at the height of Russia's pre-electoral tension.The law also seeds censorship, said Alexander Morozov, a popular blogger and head of the Centre for Media Studies, a Moscow thinktank. "The anti-extremism laws act as an instrument of fear," he said. "It puts pressure on you – you start to write more carefully, realising you could face seven years in prison."The government has also deployed other laws. This month, a court in Kemerovo found a local blogger guilty of "insulting a state official in public" after he wrote two blog posts mocking the Siberian region's governor. He was given 11 months of community services and a large fine.As anti-Putin sentiment began to rise online and in the streets in January, the FSB summoned Pavel Durov, founder ofVKontakte, the Russian version of Facebook, for questioning, demanding his site close several opposition group pages. He rejected their summons and demands, and the case was dropped.Russia's actions on the internet have so far mimicked its actions offline – from the use of politicised laws to crack down on opposition, to thedeployment of trolls from pro-Kremlin youth group Nashi, to overt attacks, in the form of distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks, deployed against liberal sites in the lead-up to the parliamentary vote and often used againstLiveJournal, Russians' blogging platform of choice.Now, observers are keeping a keen eye on a new group called the Safe Internet League, a body that counts officials from the FSB and the communications ministry, as well as representatives of the three major – and state-friendly – private telecommunications firms, on its board. The group is so far focusing on  introducing stringent anti-child pornography legislation to Russia, but admits it may launch other campaigns in the future, without providing details.The lack of an overarching internet strategy has not prevented officials from testing the grounds of a Chinese approach. In July 2010, a court in the far eastern region of Khabarovsk ordered a local internet provider to shut down YouTube, after finding it hosted extremist nationalist videos."It's a Chinese approach," said Soldatov. "The problem is that China had taken some preparatory steps to use this strategy – it had the technology. But in Russia there are too many entry points for websites based abroad. Technologically, it's very difficult to set up.""They have learned how to block small websites," he said. "The problem is that they have no idea what to do with the social networks. The Chinese understood this problem very quickly. Now, it's too late."Russia has experienced some of the most rapid growth of social network use in the world. In September, it became the European country with the most internet users, according to comScore, an international ratings agency. According to a recent survey by the Pew Research Centre's Global Attitudes Project, 43% of Russian internet users regularly use Facebook and Twitter, up from 33% the year before. VKontakte is even more popular. A Russian attempt to set up a Cyrillic challenger to Twitter this year, called Futubra, styled on China's Weibo, has failed miserably. "It's stillborn," said Nossik.Analysts say Russia is torn between seeking to control the internet and using it to develop into a modern state. "If they start confronting the internet, they will lose," Nossik said. "They will turn themselves into Turkmenistan, which is not their dream.""What they can do is promote themselves by setting up their own web presence," he said, noting the example of Futubra. "What they'll do is spend a lot of money, and steal it, as usual."
The principles of openness and universal access that underpinned the creation of the internet three decades ago are under greater threat than ever, according to Google co-founder Sergey Brin.In an interview with the Guardian, Brin warned there were "very powerful forces that have lined up against the open internet on all sides and around the world". "I am more worried than I have been in the past," he said. "It's scary."The threat to the freedom of the internet comes, he claims, from a combination of governments increasingly trying to control access and communication by their citizens, the entertainment industry's attempts to crack down on piracy, and the rise of "restrictive" walled gardens such as Facebook and Apple, which tightly control what software can be released on their platforms.More on the battle for the internetRevealed: US and China's cyber war gamesWashington's plan to beat web censorsChina struggle to regain control of the internetHow open is your internet? An interactive mapThe 38-year-old billionaire, whose family fled antisemitism in the Soviet Union, was widely regarded as having been the driving force behindGoogle's partial pullout from China in 2010over concerns about censorship and cyber-attacks. He said five years ago he did not believe China or any country could effectively restrict the internet for long, but now says he has been proven wrong. "I thought there was no way to put the genie back in the bottle, but now it seems in certain areas the genie has been put back in the bottle," he said.He said he was most concerned by the efforts of countries such as China, Saudi Arabia and Iran to censor and restrict use of the internet, but warned that the rise of Facebook and Apple, which have their own proprietary platforms and control access to their users, risked stifling innovation and balkanising the web."There's a lot to be lost," he said. "For example, all the information in apps – that data is not crawlable by web crawlers. You can't search it."Brin's criticism of Facebook is likely to be controversial, with the social networkapproaching an estimated $100bn (£64bn) flotation. Google's upstart rival has seen explosive growth: it has signed up half of Americans with computer access and more than 800 million members worldwide.Brin said he and co-founder Larry Page would not have been able to create Google if the internet was dominated by Facebook. "You have to play by their rules, which are really restrictive," he said. "The kind of environment that we developed Google in, the reason that we were able to develop a search engine, is the web was so open. Once you get too many rules, that will stifle innovation."He criticised Facebook for not making it easy for users to switch their data to other services. "Facebook has been sucking down Gmail contacts for many years," he said.Brin's comments come on the first day of a week-long Guardian investigation of theintensifying battle for control of the internetbeing fought across the globe between governments, companies, military strategists, activists and hackers.From the attempts made by Hollywood to push through legislation allowing pirate websites to be shut down, to the British government's plans to monitor social media and web use, the ethos of openness championed by the pioneers of the internet and worldwide web is being challenged on a number of fronts.In China, which now has more internet users than any other country, the government recently introduced new "real identity" rules in a bid to tame the boisterous microblogging scene. In Russia, there arepowerful calls to rein in a blogosphereblamed for fomenting a wave of anti-Vladimir Putin protests. It has been reported that Iran is planning to introduce a sealed "national internet" from this summer.Ricken Patel, co-founder of Avaaz, the 14 million-strong online activist network which has been providing communication equipment and training to Syrian activists, echoed Brin's warning: "We've seen a massive attack on the freedom of the web. Governments are realising the power of this medium to organise people and they are trying to clamp down across the world, not just in places like China and North Korea; we're seeing bills in the United States, in Italy, all across the world."Writing in the Guardian on Monday, outspoken Chinese artist and activist Ai Weiwei says the Chinese government's attempts to control the internet will ultimately be doomed to failure. "In the long run," he says, "they must understand it's not possible for them to control the internet unless they shut it off – and they can't live with the consequences of that."Amid mounting concern over the militarisation of the internet and claims – denied by Beijing – that China has mounted numerous cyber-attacks on US military and corporate targets, he said it would be hugely difficult for any government to defend its online "territory"."If you compare the internet to the physical world, there really aren't any walls between countries," he said. "If Canada wanted to send tanks into the US there is nothing stopping them and it's the same on the internet. It's hopeless to try to control the internet."He reserved his harshest words for the entertainment industry, which he said was "shooting itself in the foot, or maybe worse than in the foot" by lobbying for legislation to block sites offering pirate material.He said theSopaandPipa billschampioned by the film and music industries would have led to the US using the same technology and approach it criticised China and Iran for using. The entertainment industry failed to appreciate people would continue to download pirated content as long as it was easier to acquire and use than legitimately obtained material, he said."I haven't tried it for many years but when you go on a pirate website, you choose what you like; it downloads to the device of your choice and it will just work – and then when you have to jump through all these hoops [to buy legitimate content], the walls created are disincentives for people to buy," he said.Brin acknowledged that some people were anxious about the amount of their data that was now in the reach of US authorities because it sits on Google's servers. He said the company was periodically forced to hand over data and sometimes prevented by legal restrictions from even notifying users that it had done so.He said: "We push back a lot; we are able to turn down a lot of these requests. We do everything possible to protect the data. If we could wave a magic wand and not be subject to US law, that would be great. If we could be in some magical jurisdiction that everyone in the world trusted, that would be great … We're doing it as well as can be done."• Explore the seven-day special series on theBattle for the internet
1995. a., neli aastat peale seda, kui Eesti murdis end vabaks NSVList, luges Toomas Hendrik Ilves ühte „väga ludiitset" raamatut, mille oli kirjutanud Jeremy Rifkiin. Raamatu pealkiri oli „Maailmalõpp". „Selle põhiteesiks oli, et suurema arvutistamise tagajärjeks on vähem töökohti" mäletas Ilves, kes tol ajal oli vanemdiplomaat, nüüdseks riigi president, „mis tema arvates oli kohutav". Ilves ja paljud tema kolleegid nägid asja teisiti. Imetillukeses (rahvastikuarv 1,4 miljonit) ja äsjaiseseisvunud riigis, just sellises nagu Eesti, said poliitikud aru, et arvutid saavad kiiresti kompenseerida nii vähese tööjõu kui ka kroonilise füüsiliseinfrastruktuuri puuduse.Seitseteist aastat hiljem on internet enamgi kui aidanud. See on nüüdseks tihedalt seotud Eesti riigi identiteediga. „Muude maade jaoks on internet lihtsalt veel üks teenus - nagu kraanivesi või puhtad tänavad," laususLinnar Viik, Eesti IT Kolledži lektor, valitsuse nõunik ning mees, kelle nimi on peaaegu sünonüümiks interneti tõusule Eestis. „Kuid noortele eestlastele on internet millekski rohkemaks kui teenuseks – see on demkraatia ja vabaduse sümboliks".Et teada saada, milleks, tuleb minna tänavale. Tasuta WiFi on kõikjal ja nii on see olnud aastakümmend. „Me mõistsime, et kui valitsus hakkab internetti kasutama, peab internet olema kättesaadav igaühele", selgitas Viik. „Seega ehitasime välja ülisuure avalike internetipunktide võrgustiku inimeste jaoks, kes ei suuda koduse internetiteenuse eest tasuda.Sama taktikaga lähenetakse ka haridusele. Aastaks 1997, tänu kampaaniale, mida osaliselt juhtis Ilves, oli aukartustäratavas97% Eestikoolides juba internet.  Tänapäeval on võimalik hääletada kandearvuti vahendusel ning allkirjastada ametlikkedokumenteläbi nutitelefoni.Valitsuse koosolekud on olnud paberitud alates 2000.  Arstid kirjutavad välja ainult elektroonilisi retsepte. Ei ole paha maa kohta, kus ainult kaks aastakümmet tagasi oli vaid poolel elanikkonnast kodustelefon.Väljaspoolt vaatajatele ei ole koheselt selge, miks Eesti võttis interneti tarvitusele kordi kiiremini kui tema Balti sugulased- Läti ja Leedu. Kuid eestlastele on põhjus  koheselt arusaadav. Iseseisvusaja algusest peale on  Eesti pilgu pööranud Skandinaavia poole nii inspiratsiooni kui investeeringute saamiseks. Need Soome ja Rootsi partnerid, kes investeerisid, eeldasid, et Eesti koostööpartnerid vahetavad nendega teavet e-maili pigem kui faksi kaudu. Ja üsna pea olid uustulnukad need, kes juba esirinnas liikusid. „Ma mäletan, kui üks Rootsi pankadest ostis ühe Eesti panga," jutustab Ilves. „Nad tulid siia ja ütlesid: „ja nüüd õpetame teile, kuidas korraldada internetipangandust". Ja meie ütlesime: „ hästi, kuid Te tahate võib-olla vaadata, mida me *teeme* internetipanganduses ise". Viimaste andmete järgi toimus 99% Eesti pangatehinguest internetikeskkonnas.Asjale tuli kasuks ka see, et 90ndate algusaastatel olid paljud poliitikud varmad endale internetti „soetama". „Peale NSVLi kokkuvarisemist olid võimul väga noored inimesed," lausus Jaan Tallinn, Skype'i, Eesti internetitelefonikompanii kaasasutaja ning Kazaa, failijagamissaidi kaas-arendaja. „Nad teadsid, mis oli toimumas".Samuti nähti internetis puhvrit Venemaa vastu.  Irooniana, kui lõpuks tuligi rünnak, tuli see interneti kaudu – ning koheselt katkes Eesti ühenduse muu maailmaga. Rünnak kestis kolm nädalat ning seda oli võimalik ohjata ainult Eestist välja- ja Eestisse sissetlevat internetiliiklust piirates. Tegemist oli tõelise küber-vallutusrünnakuga.Toimunud jääminekul oli kaks positiivset tulemust. Esiteks:NATOrajas küber-sõjanduse mõttepaja Eestis, et kogemusest õppida.Teiseks: valitsus asutas Küber-Kaitseliidu, 100 kübersektori vabatahtlikust koosneva võrgustiku, kes lisaks muudele ülesannetele, moodustaks territoriaalarmee tuleviku hädaolukordadeks. „Traditsiooniliselt on Läänemaades olnud nädalalõpu sõjalise õppe üritused, kus vabatahtlikud lähevad metsa ja harjutavad laskmist," sõnas Ilves. Eestis on meil grupp IT inimesi pankadest, tarkvaraettevõtetest, kes vabal ajal, ühel päeval nädalas, töötavadküberküsimustega.Palju aastaid oli igal Eesti kodanikul õigus tasuta domeeninimele.   2010. a. tuli  muutus: valitsus edastas allhankena vastutuse domeeninimede eraldamise eest era registripidajatele, kes nüüd kasseerivad eestlastelt sisse £15 ümber selle luksuse eest –üks kõrgeimaid hindu Euroopas.Paljud akadeemikud ja kõrgklassi tehnoloogiatöötajad olid äärmiselt negatiivselt meelestatud ning mõningad neist moodustasid surverühmituse – Eesti Internetiühendus - theEstonian Internet Community(EIC) – mille eesmärgiks on välja võidelda suurem sõnaõigus tavainimestele selles suhtes, kuidas Eesti internetti hallatakse.Tegelikult aga kardetakse, et needsamad poliitikud, kellel oli niivõrd valgustuslik suhtumine internetti 90ndatel , võivad hakata kaotama oma progressiivset profiili. „Nad on jätkuvalt võimul," lausus Skype'i Tallinn, „kuid ma ei ole kindel, et nad saavad aru, mis on toimumas. Tehnoloogia areneb jätkuvalt. Noored lähevad selle arengukurviga kaasa. Kui vananedes tabab neid inerts ning nad hakkavad arengukurvist kõrvale kalduma".
For more than a year, the intelligence services of various authoritarian regimes have shown an intense desire to know more about what goes on in an office building on L&nbsp;Street in Washington DC, six blocks away from the White House.The office is the HQ of a US government-funded technology project aimed at undermining internet censorship in countries such as Iran and Syria. And so every week – sometimes every day – email inquiries arrive there that purport to be from pro-democracy activists in those places, but which, the recipients are confident, actually come from spies.This is international espionage at its most elementary: pretend to be a sympathiser, ask for more details, and just maybe, if you're lucky, some unsuspecting intern or temp will forward you the secret plans. It's a long shot, but it's much easier than intercepting phone calls, cultivating double agents or infiltrating opposition groups.This kind of dissimulation has been going on forever. But if you wanted a sign of the strangeness of this moment in history, you could not hope for one more telling than this: the spies who email the L&nbsp;Street office always get their questions answered, promptly and in detail."Everything is completely open – all the code, everything," says Sascha Meinrath, who runs the project, codenamedCommotion Wireless, at the New America Foundation thinktank."If it's a really good question, we'll put it on our frequently asked questions page. Hard questions help us get better."The fact that Meinrath and his fellow geeks are committed to radical transparency is not surprising: that has been the ethos of grassroots internet culture since the beginning. (Meinrath used to work forIndymedia, the citizen-publishing site that grew out of the Seattle World Trade Organisation protests of 1999.) But what certainly is a surprise is the fact that the US state department is providing such people with millions of dollars.Such are the strange bedfellows of the era: on one hand, the US government is funding Commotion Wireless, which will enable anyone with a smartphone to connect with other smartphones, forming a "mesh network" – an impromptu internet – to communicate by stealth, regardless of efforts to monitor or shut down traffic.On the other hand, the FBI recently distributed flyers warning that the use of "anonymisers", encryption or "multiple cell phones" might be "indicators of terrorist activities".In January, Meinrath's team gave Commotion a trial run atthe Occupy DC encampment– meaning the state department was effectively facilitating the protest.Multiple fractious arguments about the internet dominate headlines these days, but ultimately they are all battles in a single war.Debates about China's "Great Firewall", about WikiLeaks, about intellectual property and piracy, about theUK government's plans to expand email surveillance powers, about Facebook and privacy, pornography and terrorism, Anonymous and LulzSec, all boil down to the fundamental question of whether the internet should be "open" – a place of unfettered expression, self-organising order and plenty of chaos – or "closed" and controlled, subjugated to existing frameworks of politics, policing and law.Common sense might dictate some middle way, which is the official line of the Foreign Office: cracking down on criminals but not democracy activists; letting respectable businesses harness the web's potential, without letting copyright anarchists such asthe Pirate Baydo the same.But it is by no means clear that this is possible. Can you facilitate "Twitter revolutions" without also facilitating organised crime? Can you weaken dictators without weakening democratic governments? Can you support an open internet abroad but not net neutrality – which stops internet providers making it easier or harder to access certain sites – at home? Can you be open and closed as it suits you? Or must you make a choice?For a certain breed of digital utopian, these were always supposed to be irrelevant arguments: eventually, they argued, the inherent logic of the internet would defy all efforts to control it.Instead, China has not only developed a vast and highly effective system of censorship over its more than 500 million internet users – combining human and digital surveillance, and permitting closely watched clones of non-Chinese social networks to thrive – but is exporting its thinking and technology to other countries. UK and US firms, meanwhile, have been among those implicated in marketing surveillance technologies used to censor the web in China and Egypt. None of the easy assumptions of the technolibertarians – that the democratic world would champion openness, or that openness would win – any longer seem to apply.Nowhere are the dilemmas and the possibilities better illustrated than in the case of the US state department, which under Hillary Clinton has become a full-throated supporter of "internet freedom" as a human right – while simultaneously trying to avoid the impression that it is fomenting regime change in countries such as Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, American allies that heavily censor the web. (And also while opposing that other pioneer of internet freedom, WikiLeaks, with its penchant for leaking secret state department cables by the truckload.)"We want to keep the internet open for the protester using social media to organise a march in Egypt,"Clinton saidin a major policy speech last year. "[For] the college student emailing her family photos of her semester abroad; the lawyer in Vietnam blogging to expose corruption; the teenager in the US who is bullied and finds words of support online; for the small business owner in Kenya using mobile banking to manage her profits; the philosopher in China reading academic journals for her dissertation … internet freedom is about defending the space in which all these things occur."Between 2008 and 2011, Congress authorised $76m (£48m) of spending on such efforts – a sign of serious intent, though admittedly very little compared with the forces it is intended to fight.The ethos of openness was central to the vision of the internet's founders – academics, mainly, who trusted each other and were not focused on the network's global growth. "The primary design principle underlying the web's usefulness and growth is universality. When you make a link, you can link to anything," its founder,Sir Tim Berners-Lee, wrote in 2010, in a polemic targeted just as much at the "closed worlds" of Facebook and the Apple App Store asat Iran's "Halal internet"."Totalitarian governments aren't the only ones violating the network rights of their citizens," Berners-Lee said, citing a 2009French law, which in its original form would have allowed the authorities to cut off a household's internet access for a year based on nothing but a media company's claim that its copyright had been violated. (Now, a court must agree as well.) "Given the many ways the web is crucial to our lives and our work, disconnection is a form of deprivation of liberty," Berners-Lee added.In practice, though, even well-meaning efforts at openness can aid those who seek to exert tight controls over the internet. That seems to have been the case with the fiasco of Haystack, a project launched amid the 2009 Iranian election protests by a US programmer, Austin Heap, which promised to allow dissidents in Iran to circumvent state censorship.The state department endorsed the project (andHeap won a Guardian innovation awardfor his efforts) but Haystack was abruptly withdrawn amid allegations that its poor design exposed activists to possibly fatal harm, revealing information about them to Iran's state monitors. "Given that history, it's not that [activists] are paranoid," says Meinrath. "It's just good sense – the history is that when we've done these things, it's been very bad!"The radical openness of Commotion is an effort to prevent a rerun of those problems. Anyone can inspect the code, testing it for flaws. Being exposed to the prying eyes of foreign governments means it must adapt to withstand such scrutiny; those using it can accurately grasp the risks, and need not rely on faith in America's goodwill, or on software developers keeping certain things secret. "Instead of trying to hide security problems, we're trying to actively expose them," says Meinrath. "It makes for better relations with people who are going to be putting their lives on the line."Last year, when the New York Times mentioned Commotion, Iran's intelligence minister, Heidar Moslehi, declared that his country had devised ways to sabotage the project. But the logic of the internet has a strange way of frustrating such strategies. "We got flooded with messages from people in Iran wanting to know how to download it," Meinrath said. "He did more to spread word about our technology than we ever could have done."And once a handful of people have downloaded it in any given location, its spread – should they find it useful – is virtually guaranteed. When completed, Commotion could allow demonstrators to plan their real-world gatherings free of state interference.Used in conjunction with a "delay-tolerant" Twitter application, it could let people continue to use the social network despite censorship. Then, as soon as any node on the network managed to connect to the wider internet, it could push out all backlogged tweets for the world to see.Another project receiving state department backing is a "panic button" app for smartphones, called InTheClear, which allows the contents of a phone to be speedily erased, and prewritten texts sent to specific contacts, when the owner is taken into custody.But many of the "internet freedom" dollars go towards digital workshops held globally – some publicly acknowledged, but most secret – at which more than 5,000 activists have so far been trained."One blogger was a Tunisian and he'd been active before the revolution, before Ben Ali left," a senior state department official said at a briefing, explaining one benefit of the workshops. "And when he got to the training programme, the trainer looked at his laptop and found that he had scores of viruses on his laptop, including … keylogger software [that] was sending back every single stroke he typed."Scepticism about such efforts is widespread. "The impression I have, to be honest, is that [the internet freedom agenda] is mainly a public relations thing," says the Cairo-based Middle East analystIssandr El Amrani, founder of the news and commentary site Arabist.net. "It's a big idea that comes at relatively low cost. And while the administration has been helpful in Syria" – condemning Syrian web crackdowns, and energetically using Facebook and other networks there itself – "we haven't seen Clinton or Obama push aggressively for internet freedom in China. We haven't seen any real efforts to ban the export of software to let governments spy on citizens."In its public pronouncements about its activities, Washington toes a careful line, insisting that "internet freedom" is a politically neutral human-rights effort, not a way of undermining authoritarian regimes – some of which, after all, are officially allies."The biggest negative critique of the state department in this area is built entirely around a straw man," insists Alec Ross, Clinton's senior adviser on innovation. "It's rooted in this false premise that we view this principally as an engine for regime change in authoritarian societies. It's just a false critique."To the internet commentator Clay Shirky, by contrast, America's interest in using internet freedom to undermine autocracies is "acknowledged internally and understood externally. It's just that nobody can come out and say it."In the end, though, it may not matter who acknowledges what, or how the state department views things: the forces they are helping to unleash are inexorably exposing the contradictions in how democratic governments approach the question of online openness."It's very difficult to weaponise social media," says Shirky – to choose the battles you want to wage, so as to support openness in Iran, say, while overlooking abuses in South Korea or Thailand, and not aggravating the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), for whom a free and unmonitorable internet is less a human right and more a grave business threat.Shirky says: "The real threat to internet freedom isn't from Iran saying we're going to disconnect and build an alternate internet – that's a desperate act. The real threat comes from theMPAA[Motion Picture Association of America] and our allies. We should be much more worried about what's going on in South Korea than in North Korea."In the utopian version of this storyline, by collapsing governments' abilities to promote freedom in some countries but not others, or in the political realm but not the commercial one, openness may force governments to pursue a more principled kind of politics."We've always been able to say 'oh no, we don't mean you, Saudi Arabia,'" said Shirky. "And now our bluff has been called."Sitting in the wood-lined rare books room of the state department library, Alec Ross, a 40-year-old West Virginian who was closely involved in Obama's presidential campaign, before being hired by Clinton, dismisses many of these criticisms, but paints internet freedom in similarly grand historic terms."I think the fight over an open internet is today's version of a battle between open and closed that has been raging now for 2,300 years," he says, sketching a sweeping tale of clashing forces dating back to the third century BC, taking in the burning of the library at Alexandria, the invention of the number zero, the dark ages and the impact of the printing press.In this view, the crusade for openness rises above mere politics."What distinguishes the Bush 'freedom agenda' from Clinton's internet freedom agenda is that [Clinton's] is less politically deterministic. It's rooted in individual rights, not a presumed political outcome. There are lots of grantees of ours whose members have political views that would be well outside the mainstream in this room. But that's a good thing!"Clinton saysshe will step downthis year, but America's role in the open internet's future may just be starting to get interesting.If the promise of neutrality is not kept – if the policy is used instead only to further narrow US interests – then it could alienate pro-democracy activists and harm US credibility abroad.On the other hand, if the promise is kept, it could unleash forces of openness too great for any nation to control, and with no guarantee that movements thus empowered will be friendly to America. Commotion Wireless may prove to have been presciently named.• Explore the seven-day special series on theBattle for the internet
For much of the book publishing world, the move to digital is all about e-books. That brings big challenges (and regulatory scrutiny) around distribution deals and pricing, but less around the actual content and design.For children's books, it's a different story. The text-centric e-books market has seen children's publishers turning their picture-books into apps.A session at the London Book Fair's Digital Minds conference explored the implications with panelists from publishers Macmillan, Penguin and Nosy Crow, and transmedia production firm Starlight Runner Entertainment.The key theme: making great book-apps for children is very different from making books: it's a collaborative process requiring animators, coders, musicians and above all storytellers with a feel for interactive narrative."It's a much more collaborative process," said Kate Wilson, managing director of Nosy Crow, which has made critically acclaimed apps based on Cinderella and The Three Little Pigs, as well as its own Bizzy Bear books."It's hard to look at any of our apps and say 'this person made that'… It has, so far, to make a rich experience required more input from many many different disciplines."Eric Huang, publishing director at Penguin's media and entertainment division, said his company is signing up developers and animators to create picture-books, and launching them as apps before physical editions. "The new breed of authors isn't necessarily coming from a literary background," he said. "They're still storytellers."Starlight Runner president and chief executive Jeff Gomez, who has worked on franchises including Pirates of the Caribbean, Tron, Halo, Transformers and Hot Wheels, predicted the rise of "the new children's book rock stars" – writers who understand the fundamentals of interactive design.However, he warned that this is about much more than "the equivalent of Choose Your Own Adventure… thinking interactivity means choosing through some kind of branching format".Instead, it's more about "involving the reader as a participant in some form or another in the narrative, so that the decisions that the participant makes and the activity that the participant does have an impact – subtle or overt – on the narrative".The panel agreed that the emergence of tablets and smartphones has been the main reason children's book publishers are excited about digital storytelling, while Huang noted that seeing other children's entertainment companies like Nickelodeon, Disney and Moshi Monsters in the apps space has been an additional spur.One question is what parents' expectations are of storytelling apps for their children. Gomez praised tablets for "removing the last frontier of friction" for children, who don't need to physically turn pages or learn to use a mouse."There is a direct relationship between the child and the app or the digital book, and it is manipulateable with tremendous ease," he said. Wilson, meanwhile, pointed out that the ability to offer voice narration means children aren't reliant on their parents to read to them.Is cutting parents out of the storytelling loop an entirely good thing? Belinda Rasmussen, publisher at Macmillan Children's Books, warned "it would be a shame if that came at the expense of the emotional value of the book: of the parent sitting…"Wilson added that parents are actively involved in the apps that their children use, and pointed out that book publishers may benefit from this: reading experiences may be seen as the "least worst" option on a tablet, which they feel "more positive about than Angry Birds, perhaps".The panel highlighted two big challenges for children's book publishers, though. The first comes down to money."Children's books make money: a good amount of money. And the expectation on the part of publishers is that they won't make that much money on the digital format," said Gomez. "That's a big stepping on the brakes for a lot of publishers."He had a solution: pay more attention to intellectual property rights, and think from the start how a particular story might extend across other platforms and devices, whether that's comics, animation or games.The second challenge for book publishers is how to stay relevant in a world where teenagers and even younger children's expectations of storytelling are influenced by nonlinear content, particularly games.Wilson defended the idea of linear narrative – "stories with a beginning, a middle and an end are very satisfying for children… The reason that J.K. Rowling worked is that it's a better story than any of my children could tell themselves!"However, Gomez said it's more about bringing these linear narratives into bigger, nonlinear worlds: "A living, breathing world where as you're moving through the linear story, there may be other things happening elsewhere in the story world that are unfolding on different platforms".He also warned book publishers that they must learn and find new partnerships quickly, with the risk if they don't being that the business of children's storytelling will be driven by other kinds of companies."If you don't do something about this, that's exactly what's going to happen," he said.
So Facebook hasbought Instagram, a company with a single product – a photosharing app – for $1bn in cash and (FB) shares. Just to put that in context, Instagram has been in existence for 18 months, employs 13 people, has 30 million users and has had a grand total of $7m in investment funding. Oh, and it has precisely zero dollars in revenue.Sound familiar? YouTube was founded in February 2005 as an angel-funded enterprise. In November 2005 Sequoia Capital invested $3.5m, and in April 2006 Sequoia and Artis Capital Management put an additional $8m into the company, making $11.5m in all. Then, in October 2006, YouTube was purchased by Google for $1.65bn.Or how about this? In 1996 a group of Israeli engineers founded Mirabilis, a company that developed the ICQ messaging technology. AOL bought Mirabilis in 1998 for $407m, which then was a lot of money. In 2010 AOL sold ICQ to Digital Sky Technologies for $187.5m.Or this? Skype was founded in 2003 by Janus Friis and Niklas Zennström. It grew rapidly because it offered free VoIP (voice over internet protocol) but was slow to earn revenues by selling "Skype-out" facilities, which enabled subscribers to make calls to conventional telephones. In October 2005eBay purchased Skypefor a sum variously estimated at between $2.6bn and $3.1bn. Two years later eBay took a $1.4bn impairment on the value of Skype, revaluing the company at $2.7bn. In May 2011 Microsoft acquired Skype for $8.5bn. At the time this was Microsoft's largest ever acquisition.And then there's MySpace, also founded in 2003 and acquired by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation in July 2005 for $580m – a purchase lauded by some eminent commentators at the time as the wily Digger's latest masterstroke. Myspace was flogged off last June to an outfit called Specific Media for $35m. Some masterstroke!What is the moral of these stories? Answer: that internet valuations are like the Bible's description of the peace of God: they "passeth all understanding". There's no rational way of valuing companies like these. That doesn't mean, of course, that armies of high-priced accountants, consultants and lawyers toting massive Excel sheets and market "research" didn't provide wodges of impressive documentation rationalising whatever number senior executives had plucked out of the ether. But, in general, there's no way of knowing in advance whether any of these purchases will turn out to be masterstrokes or follies.At the moment it looks as though YouTube was the only really shrewd acquisition in the sense that one can at least envisage a way that it might eventually turn into a serious money-pump for Google. ICQ was a disastrous mistake for AOL, as was MySpace for Murdoch. And it's hard to see how Microsoft will ever get its money back from Skype.So where does that leave Facebook and Instagram? The web has been seething all week with rationalisations of varying degrees of plausibility.Writing in theFinancial Times, for example, Richard Waters pointed out that the comparison with YouTube doesn't work because Instagram is a conduit, not a destination: "YouTube may have had its copyright challenges," he writes, "but there was clear potential in a site that could become the dominant destination for online video viewing. Instagram is different: many of its users capture pictures with its app but then pass them on to other social networks, shifting the sharing function off its network."And then there's the problem that once Facebook becomes a public company there will be fierce pressure from Wall Street to start sweating its new $1bn asset – which means "monetising" all those Instagram snappers.One obvious way of doing that would involve privacy erosion – for example by harvesting the geotagging data that these hapless users will have encoded with their pics – which is why some people are already advising them onhow to delete their accounts beforeit's too late.Which brings us back to the underlying reality. In less than two years Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger, the co-founders of Instagram, transformed an idea into a company valued at $1bn. Between themthey take away $500mfor their trouble. They did it by building a platform that enabled millions of people to publish their photographs online – for free.So what has Facebook bought? Not the platform – Zuckerberg and co could have built that in a weekend. No, what Facebook bought was Instagram's users. Which illustrates the First Law of Online Services: if they're free, then you're the product. Caveat uploader.
Price£168,395MPG21.4Top speed197mphIn the neck-twisting premiership of high-end, low-slung sports cars, there are few design details that quicken the pulse more than a gullwing door. The word alone has the power to bulge eyes and drop jaws. In the week I spent with the retro-tastic Mercedes-Benz SLS, not one person asked me what size its engine is (6.3 litres), how much it cost (£168,395) or what its fuel consumption is (think of a small number and half it). But they all asked about the doors – and many of the women did it in that giggly, chin-down, hair-twiddly kind of way that you could quite easily get used to.In Germany they're calledflügeltüren(folding doors) [see footnote] and in Franceportes papillon(butterfly doors) – words that seem to sum up the pragmatic and romantic national stereotypes of those two European neighbours. What does "gullwing" say about us? Seagulls are hardly our most inspirational bird – falcon-wing doors would have been so much better. But they all come down to the same thing – a door that's hinged at the roof rather than the leading edge. And this simple difference, based on an engineering quirk, has been a&nbsp;lip-licking, brow-mopping auto affair for 60 years.This is how it works: you press the key fob and out pops a handle at the bottom of the door. Pull this and the winged-door powers skywards. This makes you laugh a little. You walk round to the passenger side and repeat. Then you walk to the front of the car and look back at one of the most beautiful sights in all motoring. This makes you laugh a lot. But you can't spend all day looking at your car. You duck under the gullwing and drop yourself into the leathery embrace of the driver's bucket seat. This is the moment you've spent much of your adult life waiting for – the stretch up, it's quite a reach, and then, yes, you pull the gullwing down. Ahhh. Then you open it and do it again. And again… It's one of the fastest cars on the road, but it takes a hell of a long time to get going.On a practical note, entrance and egress is as easy as with a normal door and they need no more space when parked up. They also keep you dry if it's raining. The only downside is that if you roll over and the car comes to rest on its roof, you'd be trapped. But the new SLS gets round this by having hinges that blast off.OK, enough about the doors. What about the rest of the car? It's the modern reinterpretation of the 300SL of the mid-1950s – so it shares the stunning looks, the styling and the performance of its predecessor, but it's also safe. Safe wasn't sexy back then.  The SLS is almost 2m wide and it's very long. The cabin perches over the rear axle with the vast bonnet stretching off to the horizon, a sort of vehicular  ha-ha. Inside that long bonnet is a colossal V8 which means you'll get to 62mph in 3.8 seconds. When pressing the start button it's as if you've unleashed a&nbsp;maniac. It bellows and grunts, whinnies and whimpers. It feels furiously alive. On the motorway the faster you go the happier the car feels. But that's because it hasn't yet realised it's never actually going to spread its clipped metal wings and take off…What are the most cost-efficient cars in the UK?This month the Honda Civic 1.4 i-VTEC SE 5dr was named the overall winner in the 2012ParkersCost of Motoring New Car Awards. The Civic came out on top based on figures collated by Parkers' cost of motoring tool, which calculates the true "hidden costs" associated with owning and running a new car, including fuel consumption, depreciation, servicing and road tax. The Civic 1.4 i-VTEC SE 5dr was also chosen as the winner in the medium hatchback category. Kieren Puffett, editor of Parkers, said: "The statistics for the Civic tell us it is great value for money and Honda should feel rightly proud, because the Parkers awards are based on statistical analysis of every new car's running costs, rather than opinion."There were 11 category winners in this year's awards and in each category there were separate price brackets. This year Parkers also added another price bracket in the eco-car category to reflect the increase in the number of "green" models now on offer. And there was good news for British motor manufacturers this year, as five British-built models took the honours. The Mini Coupe, Nissan Juke, Range Rover Evoque, Toyota Avensis Tourer and the Civic are all built in Britain. The full list of winners by category was:City carKia Picanto 1.0 1 5drSmall hatchbackVolkswagen Polo 1.2TDI Match 3drMedium hatchbackHonda Civic Hatchback 1.4 i-VTEC SE 5drFamily hatchbackSkoda Octavia 1.6 TDI S 5drFamily estateToyota Avensis Tourer 2.0D-4D TR 5drPeople carrierVolkswagen Touran 1.6TDi BlueMotion Tech 5drCrossoverNissan Juke Visia 1.5 dCiEco-carHonda Jazz 1.3IMA HE Hybrid 5drSports coupeMINI Coupe 1.6 Cooper 3drPremium executiveAudi A6 2.0 TDi S line 4dr4x4Range Rover Evoque 2.2 TD4 PureOverall winnerHonda Civic Hatchback 1.4 i-VTEC SE 5dr• The following correction was published on 22 April 2012:Translation corner. Contrary to "Dieting: a pot-bellied history" (Observer Magazine), the Greek word "diaita" does not simply mean "a sensible way of life", nor is it the basis of a specific philosophy. It means "way of living" and originally had no particular reference to food or drink, being also connected to parliamentary assembly. And in our motoring review "Blowing the doors off" (Magazine) we made "flügeltüren" mean "folding doors". "Flügel" directly translates as "wing".
His photographs once adorned the walls of student residences everywhere but now on the centenary of his birth, 14 April, Robert Doisneau, the French photographer, is himself the latest subject of Google's homepage, the Google doodle.Doisneau was born on 14 April 1912 and is best known for the photograph, "The Kiss by the Town Hall" in which in a young couple, oblivious to the bustle around them kiss. The photograph, which has the Paris town hall in the back ground and the tables of a cafe in the foreground, has been reproduced on cards and posters.It was first published in Life magazine in 1950 and Doisneau allowed people to think that it was not a staged photograph. One couple, believing they were featured kissing in the photograph, sued the photographer. In court, Doisneau revealed that it was another couple who he had seen kissing and then asked them to model for him. He then took them to a series of locations in Paris. The couple who wrongly believed they were in the photograph lost their claim.Doisneau's speciality was street photos and he avoided fashion or other forms of reportage. He was awarded a series of prizes for his work and he died in 1994.
The Witcher 2: Assassins Of Kings, Xbox 360Role-playing games normally stumble over themselves to let you customise your character, from gender to species to specialism in magic, fighting, thievery or a variety of other ways of knocking off orcs and persuading innkeepers.The Witcher 2 doesn't dabble in such frippery. You're scarred outcast Geralt of Rivia and that's that. After a lengthy introduction in which you get to know a charismatic and popular king, before being framed for his murder, you escape to a town whose inhabitants exhibit a crude ruthlessness that you soon realise is just what this world is like. Witcher 2's conversion from a PC game is generally successful and it retains the original's refusal to hand-hold, letting you find out how things work through trial, error and repeated disembowelments at the claws of the less friendly inhabitants. Combat is clumsy, glitches abound and the game's lack of mollycoddling often feels like abject neglect, but the cast of salty characters and rich, intrigue-fuelled plot create an unusually textured and absorbing game.Namco Bandai, £38Ridge Racer Unbounded, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Ridge Racer UnboundedThe Ridge Racer series has always been about perfect power-slides and driving with clinical precision. Unbounded is almost the diametric opposite. Owing more than a nod to Burnout and the criminally unsung Split Second: Velocity, it delights in letting you blast your car right through fellow racers, scenery and buildings, leading to a track littered with tumbling debris and still-smouldering shortcuts that didn't exist on the lap before. This gives races a seat-of-the-pants feel, leaving you breathless and palpitating after two or three laps of aggressive jockeying for position. Domination races, which demand a podium finish as well as letting you earn extra points for destruction caused, are the game's staple, but there many other distractions, from straight time trials to the frenzied annihilation of frag attacks where you simply need to mangle as many opponents as possible. Ridge Racer Unbounded is an utterly thrilling reboot of the series.Namco Bandai, £35-£40Games newsMass Effect 3With popular uprisings still in progress in the Middle East, it's slightly depressing that the western world's biggest outcry this spring appears to be that the ending ofMass Effect 3wasn't quite up to snuff. After months of online mud-slinging, developer BioWare has caved in to fan demands by promising a free 'Extended Cut' for late summer. Mass Effect's publisher, Electronic Arts, is also in the news for winning the Golden Poo Award for being America's worst company, apparently for the sin of charging for downloadable content that players believe should already be part of the game. EA's apt rebuttal was that "AIG, Philip Morris and Halliburton are all relieved." Quite.New for this week arePandora's Tower, a peculiar role-playing game with a Japanese flavour of body horror, andAngry Birds Space, with yet more irate avian-throwing action.
I'm bored with that Marmite thing – you know, you either love it or hate it. One of&nbsp;the current crop of Apprentice monsters said it the other day. "I think I'm a bit like Marmite," she said. "You're either going to love me or..." Yeah, all right,Maria O'Connor, we know how it goes. And anyway, I'm not sure it's true. Not about Maria, who I'm pretty sure I hate, and who was the second to be fired by Lord Sugar. But Marmite, which I can take or leave. Twiglets, they're all right, I suppose.Anyway, the Seat Exeo is pretty much the opposite of the Marmite thing. You are neither going to love it nor hate it. Nor feel anything much at all for it. It's a car that seems to be designed to inspire indifference in the beholder. Look at it. See? Nothing at all, not even a flicker either way.It's practically invisible. Even its&nbsp;name – the Exeo – is instantly forgettable. I know, because I&nbsp;instantly forgot it. I asked the nice lady in the press office when my Altea was due to arrive. In the end I had to think about it in terms of what theTeletubbiessay with an Ex first – the Ex "Eh Oh". This is a car forTinky Winky.The Seat Exeo is really a last generation Audi A4, with new lights and a new grille, and rebranded as a&nbsp;Seat. So you could look at it as getting an Audi for less money. Or you could look at it and think: that's just an old Audi, last year's model – why would I want one of them? Or, even more likely, you could look straight through it, not notice it all.Actually, the Exeo is a perfectly good car. It's roomy in the back, and the boot is huge. This diesel model is fairly cheap to run for a car of the size. I have the "Tech" model, meaning it's quite generous with the toys – satnav, a&nbsp;Bose sound system (sounds very good, actually), iPod connectivity, etc. Oh, and it has leather seats, so&nbsp;I can feel a little bit executivey. Ah, perhaps that's what "Exeo" is hinting at... no, it says here that "Exeo" is based on the Latin for going beyond, nothing to do with executives or, indeed, Teletubbies. Hmm. Well, I'm not sure it even gets there, let alone beyond. Performance is adequate, I&nbsp;suppose... God, are you as bored with this paragraph as I am?Because that's what it is – there's no love, no hate, no nothing, it's just dull. What's a properly bland food spread? Philadelphia? That's pretty horrid, actually. I know: it's&nbsp;just plain toast. A Seat Plain Toast, then.Seat Exeo SE Tech 2.0 TDI Multitronic 143 PSPrice£23,690Top speed129mphAcceleration0-62 in 9.3 secondsAverage consumption51.4mpgCO2emissions146g/kmEco rating5/10Cool rating2/10
The internet naming company Icann has admitted that rival bidders for highly valuable new internet domains could have seen each others' secret bids because of flaws in its registration software.The company took the system offline on Thursday afternoon, just hours before applications were due to close after being open for more than three months.In adramatic announcementat about 0200 on Friday morning UK time, Akram Atallah, chief operating office at the organisation which is in overall charge of the allocation of new IP addresses and "top-level domains", said that a glitch "has allowed a limited number of users to view some other users' file names and user names in certain scenarios."He said that "Out of an abundance of caution, we took the system offline to protect applicant data. We are examining how this issue occurred and considering appropriate steps forward."Being able first to see rival bids, which are meant to be confidential, could give applicants important clues about how to word their own bids for the potentially unlimited number of new domains on offer.Icann's move came on what was to be the final day for applications for new global top-level domains (gTLDs) in which applicants could choose to become the owner of online properties such as ".sex" or ".adult" and control the allocation of website names within them.It said on Thursday that it will reopen applications next week, and extend the deadline to Friday.Charlie Abrahams, vice-president for Europe, the Middle East and Africa of the IP company  MarkMonitor, which has acted for companies including Apple, told the Guardian that Icann had not provided any extra detail, so it was unclear how many applications had been compromised. "What we can say is that the domain name space is definitely an area demanding ever increasing security - just last year there were a number of incidents involving the hacking of registries or registrars that compromised major companies including the Telegraph and Vodafone in the UK."Kieren McCarthy, who formerly worked at Icann and now runsdot-nxt, a consultancy on internet governance, told the Guardian that the organisation might bear some liability if applicants lost out because of the fault: "it depends on what people could see. And if a competing applicant changed details at some point through the process. If someone loses their bid - most likely if the same name is applied for under a 'community' application and so gets precedence - then the losing party may sue and use discovery to subpoena records relating to what the problem was and whether ICANN was responsible or, worse, knew about it."He said that the gTLD auction process has otherwise been "run extremely well" but that "Icann certainly has a lot of question marks over it at the moment. It is at a critical crossroads. It is not up the standards of a body with such as important operational role, and, through its own decisions, it is overwhelmed with work and so may have been taking shortcuts."Cities, companies and individuals had been expected to bid for a wide variety of the new gTLDs. Applicants had to pay $185,000, and might then have to enter negotiations with rivals if they both sought the same suffix. Icann has not explained exactly how it will handle  dispute resolution - which could, in theory, pit the giant Apple Inc against the American Apple Growers' Association for the ".apple" domain. (It is not known if either has bid for a top-level domain.)Abrahams said: "On the specific question of who wins a competed for .brand application, provided both applicants met the many technical, financial and legal requirements of a gTLD application, it would come down to a straight auction as to who won the right to run that registry - all applications were (originally) due in by yesterday, and chronology of submission is not part of the evaluation. Examples of registries that may fall into the competed-for category are .eco and .poker."However in some cases trademark owners could argue that they have primacy over a domain claim - which might in turn trigger a costly courtroom battle.
Windows 8 is Janus's own operating system - a "legacy" mode for running any Windows app products in the past 20 years, and a "post-PC", iPad-like mode called Metro-style. At the beginning of March I wrote a piece about how thisarrangement did not work well on the desktop.Towards the end of this year it's expected that proper iPad-competing Windows 8 tablets will hit the market. I wanted to know how these devices might fare in the market, so I gave my iPad to my kids for the week and headed out into world, Windows tablet in hand. How did I get on?tl;drThe "tl;dr" version? It's fine. It's better than fine actually - it's really good. Metro-style on a tablet makes sense in exactly the same way as Metro-style on a desktop does not.OK, so a bit more detail?I took a Windows 7 tablet - specifically a Acer Iconia Tab W500 - and installed the Windows 8 Consumer Preview on it. The W500 has a dual-core 1GHz AMD C-Series processor, 2GB of RAM, a 32GB SSD and a 10.1" 1280x800 screen.Over the course of the week, I asked ten individuals - a mix of clients, friends, and acquaintances to try out some simple tasks on the device as well as using it instead of my iPad.What I wasn't interested in was the hardware. Normal Windows tablets are rubbish compared to what's expected of proper, Windows on ARM (WOA) tablets that are expected to arrive by the end of the year. The Acer unit in particular is no iPad - it's a plasticky lump of a thing, as opposed to the sleek glass-and-metal iPad. But, I was only after a "good enough" analogue of an iPad, and the Acer fitted the bill.I also wasn't that fussed about the quality of the supplied apps. Windows 8 is still a beta and, to be honest, the built-in People and Mail apps (the largest and most novel of the apps built into Windows 8) are very ropey.So what works well? The keyboard is the first standout good element to consider. Typing on a touchscreen is never the most gloriously satisfying experience, but the Windows 8 implementation is solid. It's excellent at seamlessly correctly typing mistakes in the same way the iPad keyboard does.One thing you can't do with an iPad is use "handwriting mode". This works really well with Windows 8 - able to ably transform the most illegible rubbish into actual words.Before: handwriting entered on a Windows tablet running Windows 8 Consumer PreviewHere's where a conductive spider crawled across the screen, mimicking how a handwritingly-challenged individual might write "handwriting". (This image has been edited, mainly because I was too slow to capture the whole area over LogMeIn but it is the same scrawl that was transformed as per the next image.)Windows 8 Consumer Preview handwriting recognition: pretty nifty, eh?Can your iPad do this? Could your Newton?Web browsing also works well. In one session, my son and I were sitting on the sofa browsing Amazon forGruffalo paraphernaliaand we were both happily sharing the screen in exactly the same way as we might with the iPad. Scrolling performance wasn't quite on par with the iPad, but that could well have been the hardware.Generally, then, good marks so far.How did the others find it?It was quite fun to see how people got on with this device. For those of a technical persuasion, the first thing I asked them to do was to get it to join wireless network. They all failed.All of them instinctively knew how to drive the Start screen and found swiping left and right obvious. They could start apps, and they could find their way to the Start screen by using the sole hardware button on the front of the device.What they all failed to work out was how to access the Charms and menus that you can command into view by swiping from the bezel onto the screen. (Swiping from the right-hand side brings up the Charms bar. From there, you can access Settings, and from there Wireless.) Some of them worked out that you could swipe in from the left, or the top, but failed to experiment from swiping from the bottom or right, even though they'd seen these other two gestures work.Windows 8 Consumer Preview on a tablet: there are the Charms on the rightCharms. Charming charms. Charms that charm. Hated the name at first. Quite like it now.I'm intensely relaxed about this, though. If you were from another planet and I told you that in order to access a list of running apps on our current market-leading post-PC tablet [IPAD DOESN'T OUTSELL IPHONE] you put four fingers on the screen and pushed up, you'd look at me with whatever passed for "quizzically" on your home planet, and I'd feel faintly embarrassed for myself and humankind. How about on the iPhone, where double-pressing the Home button on the lock screen lets you access the music player controls? Some of these actions aren't obviously discoverable, nor self-evident; what's important is whether they make sense once you've learnt them. Once I explained the gestures to the people trying out the device, they generally got on OK.One niggle about the off-screen gestures relates to speed: you have swipe in from the side sloooowly - a fast swipe won't register. My best guess on why relates to how Microsoft has implemented off-screen gestures. Rather than insisting OEMs install touch-sensitivity on the bezel, the single pixel around the edge of screen is preserved by the OS to detect "offscreen-to-onscreen" gestures. Thus on my screen, if no touch has been detected and you get a touch on pixel 1199 on a 1200 pixel wide display, the systems deduces you've come in from the right, and the OS will show the Charms bar.(Oddly, the lock screen isn't like this - power up the display and you can zip up and access the password/PIN field in milliseconds. In fact, that's a key feature of the otherwise laughableSmoked by Windows Phonecampaign.)The one gesture that no one discovered was the slightly batty "task switcher" gesture. This displays a list of the running apps, and requires you to pull in from the left hand side (which typically lets you "Alt+Tab" between apps), wait until it registers and then reverse and go back. I knew such a view existed, but I didn't suss out how to access it - I had to ask Microsoft-watcherTom Warrenhow to do it.Windows 8 Consumer Preview: Task switcherThe task switcher. This year's award for most obscure gesture goes to the Windows 8 Metro Shell team.In summary, the feedback I got was good. People seemed to like it. Some basic training was required, but I didn't feel the mental workout required in learning the gestures was any more or less onerous than Apple demands of iPad users.AppsHaving left my kids with the iPad knowing that it was going to spend the week letting them play Princess Fairy Sticker Album HD 2000 Special Unicorn Edition and endless repetitions of The Gruffalo, I was left wondering what I actually use my iPad for.I do some gaming, I watch quite a lot of iTunes content, I use Twitter a lot, I use Evernote, web browsing, and I suspect that's what most people use it for. Most of the installed apps on my iPad are games for the kids where the iPad market is just unbelievably strong in terms of games for the under 5s.To misquote Bill Clinton, is it a case of "it's the apps, stupid"? Not to ruin the end of this story, but when the week was up I'd forgotten I was supposed to be using the Windows tablet and had gone back to using the iPad without thinking about it. I'd actually left the Windows tablet in the car boot (graveyard of many an Android tablet or PlayBook I suspect); as soon as I clocked the iPad I forgot all about the Windows tablet. That's because one of the things I'd really missed on the Windows tablet was a good Twitter client. A combination of the Twitter web client and the work-in-progress implementation of IE10, together with a slightly underpowered device, results in an implementation which is cute and clever but features a please-god-stab-with-me-a-knife-to-end-the-pain style of user experience. Blergh. I needed a proper Twitter client. I tried usingMetroTwiton the legacy desktop (which some people rave about), but I found the reverse of my Windows 7.1 desktop experience, in that I couldn't handle switching between Metro and the legacy desktop.What WOA is going to need is apps. Lots of apps. But with Android tablets having gone nowhere despite a fair wind, are Metro-style apps facing the same fate?In this interesting article piece about"Why Android tablet apps suck", the author says:There's a bit of a chicken-and-egg problem here for developers and users. Apple solved it, in a way, by making the iPhone app experience on iPads so bad that developers had no choice but to code for the iPad. The iPad runs iPhone apps, but not in a way in which anyone would be proud.I think that's key.Apple's lousy toolset for iOS forces developers into creating each app through a process that is really, incredibly involved. With Android, you can waltz into the office at 9am, start working on "tabletifying" your app at about 10, take a long leisurely lunch, spent half the afternoon gassing about football and still have the job finished and signed off by 5pm. You're not going to get away with that with iPad. You're going to need tocraftthat sucker using things called "hard work" and "time".If you run a normal iPhone app on an iPad, all the OS does is scale the iPhone display, showing the content at either 1x or 2x zoom. That unmistakably doesn't make the most of the device, and looks rubbish. For example, if you bring up the keyboard you get a big iPhone keyboard, not the proper iPad keyboard. On Android, the graphical layout subsystem works on a dynamic layout system that doesn't really care about the device's screen resolution. As a result, it can properly scale portrait-style layout on a phone to a landscape-style layout on a tablet and everything looks … well,OK. It's better than the iPhone=on-iPad kludge, but it's rarely beautiful.The problem though is that it is good enough to pass as a "tablet" app. Do a couple of bits of tablet optimisation and you've - arguably - finished. Apple makes you go the extra mile, and the user benefits.Windows 8's graphical layout subsystem (Windows Presentation Foundation, or WPF) is roughly analogous to Android's, so it may be that porting apps will yield the same "meh" result as on Android.The result is what I call a "balance of the universe" problem - you don't get something for nothing. The iPad implementation has had more energy put into it. The amount of love and tradecraft is going to show in the finished product. It typically does with an Android app.Windows Phone to Windows 8 Metro-style ports lie on this same "risk vector". Windows 8 devs will be able to happy slap a Windows Phone app over to Windows 8 with little effort, just like the Android guys and gals. This opens up the platform to the same "it's just a bunch of ported phone apps" criticisms. That said, a wrinkle for Windows 8 lies in the fact that a lot of developers haven't got to the new platform yet, and the Windows Phone and Windows 8 toolsets are not harmonised. The trick would therefore be to get the ecosystem booted from new, non-phone developers, and non-phone apps. In trying to create an iPad competitor, I personally feel that avoiding the pull towards "start with a phone and scale up" can only help. Post-PC devices are not big phones. All of us involved in software engineering needs to understand this.One thing that I am confident about is that the volume of apps will get there on Windows 8. Go back five years and most professional developers would greet any developer who used Cocoa, Objective-C, and Xcode with equal measures of condescension and patronisation. A lot of developers out there are now waiting for Windows 8 to happen, although admittedly a lot of them may not know it yet. Plus there's all theAndroid developers who may be falling out of love with the platform.OEMs need to up their gameIt wasn't my intention to look into the hardware, but it's worth having a look at the Acer tablet I bought. There are some warning indicators to OEMs building WOA tablets.My (Intel-based) Acer cost £365 including VAT and shipping. The (ARM-based) iPad 2 costs £329 including VAT and shipping.Ignoring the size and weight difference - the x86 processor architecture makes demands of the Acer's cooling and battery that the iPad doesn't have to - the Acer is cheap and plasticky. It flexes and creaks on the axis. After a week and a bit of light use, the back is scratched to bits, as is the front screen, which is plastic as opposed to Corning'sGorilla Glass. (The screen's robustness so below par that I'm planning on sending this unit back.) The iPad isoleophobic; the Acer definitely is not. It's a dreary lump of a thing - the worst possible example of bottom-line driven, box shifting laziness that OEMs can achieve. A tick in the box with no love or craft whatsoever.If OEMs put out WOA units like this, just forget it. Dump your MSFT stock and move on because it'll be game over.It doesn't have to be like this though. The newUltrabook-specificationlaptops are really rather good. (Ultrabooks are an Intel-driven scheme to brand OEM laptops with a spec that happens to compete with the MacBook Air.) Ultrabooks are built with a metal chassis, and typically (should) have a capacitive, multitouch screen. Some are properly gorgeous. They are an example of what OEMs can do when sufficiently motivated.So all the OEMs need to do is not create the dross like my current Windows tablet and instead build something like an Ultrabook, but in iPad form, for less money than an iPad. And with better battery life. And lighter. And with a retina screen. And make sure the retina screen doesn't adversely affect battery life. Or make it heavy.Shutting downJust because this came up, let's deal with this: Windows 8 is dead easy to shut down. Swipe from the right to bring up the charms, select Settings, Power, Shut down. I'm all for curmudgeonlyness and being a stick-in-the-mud, but there was been some ridiculous content written about this "problem" for weeks, including thisslightly barking piece. (By the way, that approach outlined in that article certainly won't work on WOA devices.) Windows 8 shutdown mechanism is the pinnacle of ease of use when it comes to restarting Windows. Can we just learn it and move on? Please?ConclusionAfter using a Windows 8 tablet for a week, the takeaway message is: it works. It does what an iPad does, essentially as well as an iPad does. It's actually hard to get hold of what that actually means, or what it feels like - but then that's rather than point.The idea of these devices is to get out of the way and let you connect to people who are important to you, and my limited experiment has shown that even on crappy hardware you can run today, Windows 8 lets you do this in a way that's more than just "acceptable".What you can do today with Windows 8 on a tablet is actually kinda fun to use and - assuming the marketing and app support isn't a total balls-up - should give us the competitor to the iPad that we need in the industry.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
Print magazine publishers' enthusiasm for apps is starting to pay off, but the market is likely to be about more than pure sales and subscriptions.Whether launching spin-offs, AR features to connect print and digital, or looking to Spotify-style multi-title subscriptions, publishers are trying to stay on top of the rapid pace of innovation in the mag-apps market.There have been some early signs of success for Apple's iOS Newsstand. In late March, analytics firm Distimo published a report claiming that the 100 top-grossing Newsstand apps in the US weremaking cumulative daily revenues of $70k– a figure that includes newspapers as well as magazines.Outside the Newsstand, digital magazine aggregator Zinio has won praise from publishers for the performance of its store-cum-reader apps, collecting a catalogue of more than 5k magazines by the end of 2011, when it alsoraised $20m of fundingto beef up its business in 2012.Meanwhile, Hearst Magazinesannounced earlier that monththat Cosmopolitan had become its first magazine to pass 100k paying subscribers for its digital edition, across iOS, Zinio, Nook and Kindle devices, with the company as a wholeaiming to reach 1m paid digital subscribersacross those platforms this year.In the UK, Dennis Publishing said itsold more than £1m worthof magazines and "MagBooks" through Apple's App Store in the last six-month ABC period, with more than 300k downloads of car magazine Evo's app resulting in more than 6k subscribers.Elsewhere, Futuremade $1mfrom the iOS Newsstand in its first month of operation, signing up 75k new subscriptions and generating 9.3m downloads of the free "container" apps through which new issues are bought. By mid-February, the publisher hadsold more than 430k digital magazinesthrough the store, with 80% of downloads outside the UK, and 90% to new customers.Those figures show the two biggest reasons magazine publishers are excited about apps: cost-effective global expansion, and the chance to reach out to people who weren't buying their print magazines.Spin-offs and one-shotsThis trend includes going beyond pure digitised versions of print magazines, though. One avenue is commerce. Time Out New Yorklaunched an iPad appin mid-April that is more of a personalised travel guide than a magazine, inviting users to "browse a constantly updated, ever-changing mix of new events, places and suggestions for things to do in New York City", and learning from their usage to provide more relevant recommendations.In the UK, IPC Media has launchedInStyle Best Beauty Buys 2012in partnership with retailer John Lewis, spotlighting 100 beauty products with links to buy them from the latter's site. It's not a drastic departure from a sponsored supplement in print, but the e-commerce angle opens up a new revenue stream.Spin-off apps are becoming much more common.Marie Claire Runway Spring/Summer 2012focuses on video footage of fashion shows rather than digitised print articles, while The Economist'sElectionism HTML5 tablet appconcentrates on the US presidential election – pulling in articles from non-Economist sources too, which is a new direction for that publication. Dennis' MagBooks include the newUltimate 2012 Olympic Guide.There are even spin-offs from magazine apps that don't exist in the print world, such as The Daily'sAngry Birds Space GuideandGadget Guide, or Project Magazine's music-focusedProject Sounds.Technology blogs are also turning their longform articles into magazine apps, with Engadget'sDistroand TheNextWeb'sTNW Magazine.Time Out New York's iPad app is about recommendations, not articlesMore like appsAnother interesting trend is the impact that apps are having on print magazine design, as publishers look for efficiencies when taking them digital. Future's tablet editor-in-chief Mike Goldsmithsaid in Februarythat "the next redesign of our titles will see them redesigned with our tablet versions in mind".This is reflected at Hearst UK too, which is launching a quarterly spin-off from Good Housekeeping calledGood Ideas. Although it will be available as a print edition and digital version, it's the latter that is guiding the design of the publication."Good Ideas has been especially designed with tablet-friendly features such as smaller articles, greater emphasis on visuals, smart phone-friendly typefaces and an interactive contents page, making it accessible for both the traditional newsstand and digital user,"explained Hearstwhen launching the title.A separate – and experimental for now – way print and apps are intersecting is with augmented reality, with magazines one of the industries that AR startups are aggressively targeting to try their technology.Sports Illustrated made aspecial Viewer appfor its 2012 Swimsuit edition to trigger videos of photo-shoots when smartphones are pointed at specific pages in February 2012, while the Dutch postal service's magazine PostNL – circulation: 6m people – now has apartnership with local AR startup Layarto enhance its pages with links, videos, app downloads and Facebook Likes. Layar has alsoworked with Make magazineon an AR cover.British startup Aurasma has a project on the go withLittlewoods' customer magazine, and in December 2011worked with Top Gear magazineto add AR to its December issue.Next Issue offers all-you-can-read subscriptions on AndroidBeyond single issuesOne thing about all this innovation: it's still based around magazines as standalone entities sold a la carte or for single-publication subscriptions. The print model, in other words. Yet there is disruption of this too, with the likes ofNext Issue– a joint venture between Condé Nast, Hearst, Meredith, News Corp. and Time Inc in the US.Its recently-launched Android app doubles as storefront and reader, selling single issues and subscriptions, but also offering Spotify/Netflix-style all-you-can-eat subscription options at $9.99 and $14.99 a month (the latter includes weekly mags, the former doesn't).Publications like Elle, Esquire, Glamour, Sports Illustrated and Vanity Fair are included, with chief executive Morgan Guenther hailing it as "a game changer for customers" when it launched on the Google Play store. An iPad version will soon be submitted to Apple for approval too.Elsewhere, Google has signed up more than 400 publishers to add their content to its Google Currents aggregation app, whichwent globalin April following a December 2011 launch in the US.Rival news aggregation app Pulse recentlyinked a deal with Bonnierto add 20 of its magazines' content as channels, following an integration with Popular Science that notched up more than 3m (free) subscribers in the app. Forbes has talked upits partnerships with Flipboard and Google Currentstoo, where by March 2012 it had 460k and 900k subscribers respectively.Elsewhere, Zeen isa stealthy startupfrom YouTube co-founders Chad Hurley and Steve Chen that's promising to help people "discover and create beautiful magazines".The business models are still evolving for these news aggregation apps – most are still focused on reach rather than revenues – but smart magazine publishers are looking to partner with them early, while continuing to explore more traditional ways of distributing their publications digitally.Asurvey released in Marchby the UK's Association of Online Publishers found that 52% of its members are recruiting staff to make apps, but that 70% say they are likely to increase their tablet and mobile app partnerships with external technology companies in 2012. Finding the right balance between the two will be the key to success.
1. You will need to have the Firefox web browser installed on your computer. If you do not and want to take part, you candownload it for free.2. Open Firefox and follow this link to theCollusion Add-On page.3. Click on the yellow "+ Add to Firefox" button (at this point you may be prompted to upgrade to the latest version of Firefox – this is also free to do).4. A popup box will appear with a countdown next to the "install" button. When it changes to "Install Now", click on it.5. You have now installed Collusion. You will see it appear on the bottom, right-hand corner of your browser:The Mozilla Collusion icon, found on the bottom, right-hand side of your browser.6. Now you can start browsing the web. If you click back on the Collusion icon you will see small circles start to appear. These are the websites you are visiting and the trackers that are being set to your computer.7. When you are ready to export your data (a day's-worth of normal web browsing would be enough), click on the Collusion icon and then the "Export Graph" button on the left-hand side of the screen.8. This will open a new tab with a long strong of text. This is the data that you will need to copy and paste into the box below.9. Right-click your mouse on the text to "Select All". This will highlight the data. Right click again to select "Copy".10. Click into the box below, right-click again and select "Paste". Check the consent box and press "Send".You have contributed your data to the Guardian's "Tracking the Trackers" project. Thank you!Your data (which is submitted anonymously) will be stored in a database and we will use it with other submissions to analyse what trackers are most commonly found across the sites our readers have browsed.Keep up-to-date with the projectTo be notified when the results are ready – and for further updates to the project – you can sign up to our Guardian "Tracking the Trackers" email.Find out more about the project on ourTracking the Trackerspage.
We are being watched. The websites we visit, and the advertisers who promote products on those sites, are tracking our online activity, building a profile of where we go and in some cases what we do when we get there.The computer on which this article is being written has no fewer than 2,901 tracking files (known as cookies) monitoring its online activity, from sites including Google (121 cookies), Amazon (14), the UK government (46) and dozens upon dozens of advertising networks. These track different things: some monitor which sites are visited, some track which adverts are clicked, others store and report back on preferences and favourites on different sites.The Guardian site is no exception. Unless your browser's security settings are particularly high – and most users' aren't – the Guardian will have placed several cookies on your computer as you arrived at this article, and its advertisers will have placed a few of their own.Given virtually every internet user will have hundreds of cookies, and other forms of tracking, on their computer, and only a small proportion will be aware of this fact, cookies present a privacy concern for visitors and site owners.This may be less sinister than it might first seem. Most cookies store no identifying information on a user: they are interested only in the behaviour of the person behind the computer, not their identity. Those that do track an identity are usually tied to login functions or preferences on one particular website.Still, the concern of pressure groups and users was enough to warrant the EU to look into the issue, and enough to compel it to take action. From 26 May this year, every website operating in the UK will be required to inform its users that they are being tracked with cookies, and toask users for their consent.Sites which do not comply with the new rules face fines of up to £500,000, levied by the information commissioner.This means sites will have to justify why they need information on their users – explaining which aspects of the sites they use rely on cookies.Leaving advertising aside, cookies fill three major roles on the Guardian's own site, as GNM product manager Piers Jones explains:"Cookies do a great job at remembering users' preferences," he says. "If you want to change your default view from the US to UK site, or vice versa, cookies store that preference. Another use is whether you want to see the full site or mobile site from your phone. Cookies also power accessibility options and identity across the site, including on the comment system."Cookies are also used for user testing across the Guardian – when new components are added to the site, there's often no way to know in advance what way of displaying it would work best. Cookies allow a random sample of site visitors to see it one way, and a different group another. Site administrators can then track which view gets the best response.The third use for cookies is for tracking how a site is used to fuel improvements to it, getting a larger pool of data than focus groups or similar would generate:"From my perspective, we're trying to look at the experience people have on the site," says Jones. "Without these cookies, that becomes harder to do."Internet tracking is also essential for targeting ads delivered by the big advertising networks, and without such cookies sites relying on these for revenue could be adversely affected."Cookies ID you when you're on a particular PC and let ad networks build up a profile. This means when you go to another site on the network they build a much deeper ad profile, which means more relevant, and therefore higher priced, adverts can be delivered," explains Ian Maude of Enders Analysis. "The new rules don't spell the death of internet advertising, but could be a handicap to some sites."Maude adds that sites which have login information on their users can build far deeper profiles of their userbase than even cookies allow, and these would remain unaffected by legal changes. This means sites such as Google (for logged-in users) and Facebook's advertising would be untouched, as would that of the Financial Times and similar sites.For large sites such as the Guardian, where some advertising is sold directly by advertising teams and the remainder delivered through networks, there could potentially be an effect, but it could be smaller sites that are hardest hit."Sites with a weak relationship with their audience may struggle, especially if advertising networks are the only way they target their ads. Overall growth in the advertising market should offset the decline, but not for all sites."How websites follow the new rules may have a big impact. Some, such as theinformation commissioner's site, explicitly asks users to tick a box agreeing to accept cookies. Early anecdotal evidence suggests this can reduce the number of users accepting tracking by more than 90%. Other sites, such asbt.com, display a prominent message asking users if they wish to change settings, and saying the default will be to accept everything if not – which experts believe will mean a far smaller portion of users will refuse tracking.Most sites – including the Guardian – haven't yet revealed how they intend to respond to the changes in law. But however it's done, prominent websites across the UK may find themselves having to explain and justify monitoring they've previously taken for granted – and their future success may depend on how well they do so.Tracking the TrackersBut who are the big players tracking us?Help us to identify themand we'll reveal what they're doing with our data.Find out more about the Guardian and cookiesYou can get more details on how the Guardian uses cookies on ourPrivacy PolicyandCookies page.Third party cookies used to tailor advertising based on previous web browsing activity can be turned off through the (IAB) Internet Advertising Bureau's consumer siteYour Online Choices."• This article was amended on 16 April 2012. The original said that all advertising and third party advertising cookies could be disabled through through the (IAB) Internet Advertising Bureau's consumer site. This has been corrected.
Cookies and other web trackers monitor our online behaviour and store our browsing habits, but who are the companies behind them and what are they doing with our data?We have teamed up withMozillato try to find out.The creators of the Firefox web browser recently released an experimental  "add-on" tool calledCollusionthat tries to show you the sites you've visited and what tracking devices they set on your computer.Just a few minutes surfing the web can result in a string of company names, products and services unknown outside of the worlds of online advertising and analytics.We want to help better understand who the giants are in this tracking game, but we need your help.By using Collusion and submitting the results to The Guardian, we can build up a picture of this unseen world. When we've found the biggest players, we'll start tracking them back – finding our what data are they monitoring, and why.How to get involvedYou will need to have theFirefox web browserinstalled on your computer and be comfortable with downloading theCollusionadd-on.For more details on how to do this – including a video walk-through – you can followour step-by-step instructions.Once installed Collusion will start visualising the sites you have visited, plus the trackers they set on your browser.Once you've visited a few sites (a day's-worth of normal web browsing should be enough) you can use Collusion's "Export Graph" button to get your  data.Then, just copy and paste that data into the box below.Submit your Collusion dataYour data (which is submitted anonymously) will be stored in a database and we will use it with other submissions to analyse what trackers are most commonly found across the sites our readers have browsed.Keep up-to-date with the project by emailTo be notified when the results are ready - and for further updates to the project - you can sign up to our Guardian "Tracking the Trackers" email.
Call of Duty, Activision's all-conquering first-person shooter franchise, is as significant a modern pop-culture phenomenon as reality TV or Justin Bieber – and infinitely less unappealing. And that's truer than ever of the franchise's most recent iteration, Modern Warfare 3. When it launched last Christmas, Activision augmented Modern Warfare 3 with a new web-based service which, it hoped, would integrate CoD still further into our everyday lives.The service, Call of Duty Elite, initially encountered both bewilderment and a certain amount of resistance, since the full Elite membership requires a subscription on top of the Xbox Live and Sony Entertainment Network subscriptions gamers must already pay to play via those online services. But the point of Elite slowly became clear, and it is now beginning to achieve its aim.We caught up with two of its prime movers – Noah Heller, product director at CoD Elite developer Beachhead Studios, and Mark Cox, marketing director for digital products at Activision – in a quest to find out where Elite is at and where it might go.CoD Elite: the story so farAccording to Cox, Elite now has more than 7 million free members and 1.5 million subscribers to the full service – a pretty healthy amount, which makes it clear that after initial misgivings, the MW3 community has largely embraced it. You would imagine that those 1.5 million subscribers would correspond to the most hardcore Modern Warfare 3 players – after all, your life would have to pretty much revolve around the game for you to pay a subscription – but the message that Heller is keenest to put out contradicts that notion."With Elite, we want to help everyone step up their game," he says. "We're trying to turn casual players into players who are ultra-competitive. I think that's a good thing for the entire franchise."Heller explains that one of the key concepts that Elite adds to MW3's multiplayer side – anyone who has played the game will tell you is at its most compelling when played online – is that of clans. Previously, when you played CoD online, you might get a few friends together before jumping into online battles with random opponents. But Heller contends that formalising the creation of teams via Elite's clan-generation capabilities has revolutionised the experience."When I select my Elite clan title, I'm wearing the same title as everyone in my clan – my clan leader sets it for me. The reason I want to highlight this is because it has turned out to be something rather massive."When we rolled out the clans feature, we thought it would be a little bit hardcore. But when we turned the feature on, within the first minute, there were 40 clans. Within a day, there were 25,000 clans, and today we stand at over 670,000 clans. With up to 100 members each, clans has become a mainstream feature."Thus as part of our commitment to continually upgrade and update MW3, we added the ability for you to set your own little motto on your clan title. Our players are starting to refer to these as their uniforms."Heller highlights another clever feature which ensures that clans have to major on teamwork."With clans, you level up only by playing together," he says. "You get rewards – for example, if a clan gets to level 10, it unlocks two hours of double-XP [experience points] for every member of the clan. That goes all the way to level 50, where you get a whole 12 hours of double-XP."And the system includes leeway for the less proficient: "We take the top six numbers, and there's a really good reason for that – so that you don't kick people out of your clan who suck."The popularity of the clans feature led Beachhead to introduce Clan Operations – inevitably abbreviated in CoD-parlance to Clan Ops.As Heller explains: "An Operation is a stat-based challenge. In this case, Sticky Fingers, it's for the most captures you can get in Domination within a three-hour period."So if we all played together, it would be aggregated for our clan, but if our clan actually plays together, we could do much better – if you're running live-shield and he's running UAV, and I'm concentrating on killing for the team, it's good for the whole clan."Cox adds: "In our first Clan Operations, which we ran over two days, 25,000 clans took part and about 200,000 people. It was a whole new social experience within the game – rather than individuals talking to each other or parties, they were teams, working together."Activision has taken advantage of the timed nature of Clan Ops to offer prizes for winners."We occasionally do events for real prizes. We do several a week, in lots of different territories, and then every four to six weeks, we do 100K days," says Heller.Cox adds: "The latest one we ran, we were giving away ATVs, snowmobiles and diving holidays to Hawaii. We also align the prizes to content that has dropped recently, so in Europe, we had snowmobiles, which links really nicely to the Black Ice SpecOps drop."Such competitions add a subtle pressure, encouraging free Elite members to subscribe to the full package, as non-subscribers can only win digital prizes.New Elite featuresThe joy of a web-based system is that it can be continually updated, and Heller and Cox highlight a number of features that have recently been added to the service.Heller opens up the console app – a downloadable app that brings the most pertinent bits of Elite to the console on which you play CoD: "The console app is what you can do when you're sitting on your couch, enjoying Call of Duty. Here, for example, we've got the programme guide, listing Clan Operations. The experience is optimised for your controller."Heller reckons one of the primary uses of the console apps is for players to review their performances using "heat maps" showing their movements, spawn points, where enemies "camped" plus areas in which they died and achieved most kills."One of the things we just added was Elite TV," he says. "Elite TV is our commitment to Call of Duty as a lifestyle – not just stats and community, but rich content as well. For example, here's one of our weapons videos. When someone unlocks an AK-47 in the game, say, one of the first things they do is go and watch a video showing how to use it."These are all narrated by XboxAhoy, who is a pretty luminary guy in the community in terms of tactics and education. We also have Friday Night Fights, which plug into what the pros  are doing. We run matches like firemen versus policemen or rappers versus rockers."You can see that we're starting to treat Call of Duty almost as a sport – there are strategy sessions and colour-commentary, and there's a chance for you to see how the pros play, which helps to step up everybody's game."Cox adds that Season Two of Friday Night Fights is in production, and Activision has enlisted Ridley Scott's production company to make it. Plus, he says: "We have a brand-new show called NoobTube, which uses user-generated content created by our fantastically talented audience to supply things like screenshots, videos and clips, and it's hosted by Will Arnett and Jason Bateman."Finally, Heller says: "We've also been working furiously on a mobile application. So we shipped an Android and iOS version, and it's pretty cool. The main use for the mobile app is to change your loadouts on the fly – if you're on the tube or in a taxi, you can do whatever you want to them and send them to the game so they are waiting for you."Elite: the futureRegrettably, a certain amount of coyness crept in when the conversation turned to where Elite will head in the future, but Heller, at least, did talk about another new building-block"We're working on a tablet application right now," he says. "I can't tell you that much about it, but I can tell you it's a totally, customised app for the tablet, not a simple port. The whole website is built in HTML5, so you can go to that on a tablet, and it will look fine. But to make the apps on a tablet, it was about making the most of that real-estate and that landscape."Which sounds like a recipe for live heat-maps, a feature that would get Modern Warfare 3 players very excited indeed? "I can't say anything about that."The last aspect of Elite is downloadable content (DLC). Since MW3 launched, Activision has launched a steady stream of DLC – most recently two SpecOps missions called Black Ice and Negotiator, and a Survival map called Black Box.Elite subscribers get all MW3's DLC for free, and before everyone else – and Cox points out that while Activision promised 20 chunks of DLC when Elite launched, it has now actually delivered 24.An area of Elite called Dropzone dissects that DLC in a useful manner for players, as Heller explains: "Here, we're showing an overhead map with spawn points located – you need to know that to be a great player, but traditionally, we've never talked about it in Call of Duty. And here, we're talking about Clan Plays."For example, if you want to play Team Defender, here are some great ways to defend the map – if you put players in these locations, you can lock the map down, and have a sweeper picking up the stragglers. It's been fascinating to work with mobile clans and pro clans, and get their feedback, creating this idea of pro plays."Heller contends that that sort of integration of MW3's downloadable content into the basic game is a key aspect of Elite, and vaguely states that it will be stepped up in future. But in the meantime, there's no doubt that Elite is transforming the experience of playing Call of Duty online into something with a social element more akin to an MMO like World of Warcraft.If that appeals, you might fancy heading to the Elite website, joining a clan and, if the experience proves irresistible, becoming a fully paid-up subscriber. The fact that you can try Elite before you buy ought to allay any suspicion you might harbour that it is a mere cynical money-grabbing exercise.
A selection of 22 new apps for you today:Shakespeare's The Tempest for iPadLuminary Digital Media is the latest company looking to give Shakespeare an appy twist, with its new iPad version of The Tempest. It includes expert commentaries, a full-length audio reading synchronised with the text, and ties in a Facebook group to discuss the play.iPadLoveThis"Recommend anything – send it to whoever you like," encourages the App Store listing for this social app, which is subtitled "Recommendations with Friends". There are 10 categories, including restaurants, music, products and tradesmen, with the app tying into Facebook for its social graph.iPhoneTetris for iPadOn the plus side, Tetris for iPad looks beautiful on the new iPad's Retina display, and its one-touch controls work very well on the touchscreen. On the downside, it costs £4.99 and uses in-app purchases for "T-Coins" to spend on power-ups, which seems a little pricey.iPad7digitalDigital music store 7digital has launched a Windows Phone app, which enables you to buy and listen to MP3 tracks, while syncing previously-bought songs from the service's cloud storage.Windows PhoneUltimate 2012 Olympic GuideDennis Publishing's latest iPad app focuses on the upcoming Olympic Games in London: a 148-page "MagBook" offering interviews, athlete spotlights and a daily schedule to use during the event itself.iPadPunch! Culture Shelf"Punch! isn't a superficial celebrity news rag, or a biased political news app. It's both," explains this app's store listing. The user interface apes real shelves, with a mixture of viral videos and mini-games based on topical news and people.iPadTitanicDK's new digital book Titanic isn't an app, as such – it's one of the new breed of iBooks on iOS that comes with video, animation and interactivity. In this case, that's for a book explaining the Titanic disaster to a younger audience, complete with a 3D ship walkthrough and footage of the ill-fated vessel being built and launched.iPadThe Daily Show HeadlinesComedy Central has launched a new app for its US The Daily Show series, although it stresses that full episodes aren't included. Instead, it offers clips from the show's headlines with a rolling two-week selection, plus archives.AndroidAvengers Origins: Assemble!Another day, another Marvel Avengers book-app on iOS, although this one's been published by parent company Disney. The storyline focuses on characters including Iron Man, Captain America and Hulk, including interactivity and voice narration from Stan Lee himself.iPhone / iPadDark LegendsThe company behind popular mobile MMO Pocket Legends has a new game focused on vampires. It's still massively multiplayer though, getting players online to compete or co-operate as they play vampires in a world where the undead are being hunted by humans.AndroidDemolition Inc. THDOwners of Android devices with Tegra processors inside should have a blast with Demolition Inc. It's an action strategy game that involves destroying as much as possible: cars, tower blocks, cows... Yes, cows. The impressive physics look to be complemented by a dash of humour.AndroidCyclosleepAlarm clock apps are plentiful on the Google Play store, but this one claims to be a bit more powerful: analysing your sleep patterns using its accelerometer to ensure it wakes you up during a "light sleep phase" for minimal grumpiness.AndroidFunimal PhonicsAnimals and phonics alphabet learning – together at last! This app helps children learn that M is for monkey and H is for hippo (for example), with a choice of US or UK pronunciation.iPhone / iPadGap Casting CallHere's an example of how a brand is using apps in the US. Retailer Gap is looking for a new face for its GapKids and babyGap ranges, and wants parents to snap shots of their children and upload them, before voting on which kids they think deserve to be finalists in the contest.AndroidAwesome Calendar(+Google Task/Diary)Frustrated with the way your iOS device syncs with Google Calendar? This app may be more efficient, and throws in extra features too like To-Do lists, weather forecasts and photo-notes.iPhone / iPadTokyo in HipixPhotographer Tomoyuki Uchida has taken a series of 24 huge-resolution images of Tokyo, which have been turned into a glossy book-app with built-in sound, animation and links. Users can contribute their own recordings and links too.iPadThe Art of ScreamingBetween them, Susan and Wolf Carr have worked on vocal coaching with the likes of Mastodon, Alice in Chains, Biohazard and Fleet Foxes, so when it comes to telling RAWK men how to scream (or, er, beardy men how to croon) they have strong credentials. Now they have an app too, providing video tutorials and piano accompaniment for a series of vocal warm-up exercises.iPhoneParty MeiPhone app Party Me aims to help if you're stuck for inspiration when planning a party, with 24 ideas, and customisable guest, shopping and To-Do lists to help in organising the event.iPhoneAddidokuSudoku fans ready for a new challenge should check out Addidoku, a touchscreen take on the puzzle genre with 60 free puzzles and more available via in-app purchase.iPhoneScottish Album of the Year AwardMusic prize the SAY Award has an official app, which is promising to stream songs from the 20 longlisted albums, and let music fans have their say by voting for the finalists.iPhonei-SAYA team at the University of Salford wants people to record sounds around them and post comments. "We need your help to better understand the everyday sounds around us and how they affect the quality of all our lives," explains the Acoustics Research Centre in the free app.iPhone / iPadFartCloud"Fart Cloud, a revolution in the digital farting ecosystem. Fart Cloud allows users to record there [sic] own farts and upload them to the fart cloud." *cries*Android
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIf Google's Really Proud Of Google+, It Should Share Some Real User Figures &gt;&gt; MarketingLandDanny Sullivan, in a long, long post:I've been meaning to write my "Google+ Is Like The Apple Store For Google" piece for some time. Maybe I'll never get to it now. But you know when you go into an Apple Store, and it's filled with sometimes scary Apple fanatics who seem to have arrived at a holy place? That's Google+ for Google.If Google+ isn't anything else, it's a place that Google fans can call home. It's a place that Google's never really had before, a spot for its millions (and let's face it, there are millions) of fanboys and fangirls to rejoice in all things Google.I've experienced this firsthand in my time at Google. I've learned that if I share anything negative about Google, I can expect to get comments, sometimes many, asking why I hate Google or am biased against Google.Sullivan generally writes positively about Google, and you can see how wrestling with his dislike of its slipperiness over Google+. The "170m" figure this week seems to have been the last straw, and won't have been improved by the complete lack of useful numbers in Thurday's quarterly results.DOJ is likely to lose e-book antitrust suit targeting Apple &gt;&gt; CNET NewsThe Department of Justice "has a far better case against the publishers than Apple," says Dominick Armentano, professor emeritus of economics at the University of Hartford and author of Antitrust and Monopoly who's now affiliated with the Independent Institute in Oakland, Calif. "If the CEOs of the various publishers got together in hotel rooms to discuss prices, they are sunk" and might as well settle, he says.Pretty much only leaves MacMillan to have to fight, then.The World Bank demands open data in Google mapping project &gt;&gt; Publish What You FundThe World Bank has confirmed that it will not support the use of Google Map Maker for citizen-mapping efforts unless it gives users free access to the map data they create.The World Bank and Google have launched a project using crowd-sourcing to populate maps with the locations of public services in the developing world - a resource which could be used by many different groups in humanitarian and longer-term development work.Good move by the World Bank.How Samsung beat Nokia &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu cuts to the chase:Looking at product mix, Samsung growth is shown to be almost entirely due to smartphones while Nokia's stagnant growth seems to be a failure to have any smartphone traction.It's even more clear when showing the above mixes of devices as percents of total.Note that it's not as simple as "Android": HTC, Motorola, LG and Sony Ericsson have all adopted Android too, but all dwindled (some even worse than Nokia). Samsung has stayed ahead of the curve. Its success is completely deserved.Inside Foxconn: Exclusive look at how an iPad is made &gt;&gt; YouTubeRob Schmitz (who was one of those suspicious about Mike Daisey's claims about Foxconn working conditions) gets inside a factory and gets filming.Instagram's Buyout: How Does It Measure Up? &gt;&gt; Waxy.orgAndy Baio:The spreadsheet below captures the acquisition date, dollar amounts, and ballpark counts of the users and employees at the time of acquisition. Be warned: any of these numbers are very rough, cobbled together from Internet Archive searches, old news articles, Quora answers, and tech blogs. If you have more accurate information, please leave a comment and I'll fix it.Upshot: Instagram is a long way from being the most expensive purchase on a per-user basis from the past 13 years. To repeat: Instagram isn't the purchase that marks the top of the bubble. It's part of the bubble.About Java for OS X Lion 2012-003 &gt;&gt; AppleThis Java security update removes the most common variants of the Flashback malware.This update also configures the Java web plug-in to disable the automatic execution of Java applets. Users may re-enable automatic execution of Java applets using the Java Preferences application. If the Java web plug-in detects that no applets have been run for an extended period of time it will again disable Java applets.Next step: just zap Java altogether. Works on 10.6 and 10.7. Users of 10.5... should disable Java?Apple is allowed (at long last) to intervene in Lodsys lawsuit against app developers &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsFlorian Müller:I wish the app developer community luck as far as Lodsys is concerned. I saw that some of the smaller defendants,including Iconfactory, settled the dispute on undisclosed terms, presumably because they couldn't afford the cost and deal with risk of protracted litigation. I wish the remaining defendants as well as all those facing the threat of being sued that Apple's intervention will help to get his troll defeated. I also hope thatGoogle's reexamination requestswill be successful. I still believe that those large players should do a whole lot more for app developers than what they are doing at this stage (for example, I believe they should give them blanket coverage against litigation costs)Let the games really begin.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Apple has released an update for Java on Macintosh computers running Mac OSX 10.6 and 10.7 ("Snow Leopard" and "Lion") which it says gets rid of the Flashback malware that hasaffected as many as 600,000 Macs worldwide. The tool is available through the company's built-in Software Update system.Separately, the security company Symantecpublished research on Thursdaynight as the tool was released which suggests that the number of infected Macs has dropped precipitously since the existence of the infection was publicised.It says that the number of infections fell from 600,000 on 6 April to 380,000 on 10 April, to around 270,000 on 11 April - suggesting a dramatic cleanup rate among Mac owners. The greatest source of infection remains the US, with almost half of all infections, Canada and the UK, it adds. Symantec has alsooffered its own removal tool.Thesoftware update, Apple says, "removes the most common variants of the Flashback malware... This update also configures the Java web plug-in to disable the automatic execution of Java applets. Users may re-enable automatic execution of Java applets using the Java Preferences application. If the Java web plug-in detects that no applets have been run for an extended period of time it will again disable Java applets."Users of the earlier 10.5 ("Leopard") verson of Mac OSX and its predecessors no longer receive security updates: they are advised to disable Java.Symantec's analysis suggests that the suspected gang behind Flashback have been readying the latest version - which connects infected machines to command and control (C&amp;C) servers around the net on a rotating basis, using random-looking domain names generated afresh each day - since 26 March.iTunes account securityMeanwhile, users of iTunes logging into their online accounts to buy items from the store are being confronted with requests to add backup email addresses, and security questions to protect both their devices and accounts.In the recent past a number of people whose accounts have been compromised - either through the use of weak easily-guessed passwords, or because they have handed them over to phishing attacks - have seen their accounts used to buy expensive apps.
Oooh, it's Friday 13. We should, of course, be asking about your unluckiest ever gaming moments... But does anyone actually remember that sort of thing?
Two teenagers have been arrested as part of a Scotland Yard investigation after computer hackers intercepted a call on a highly sensitive anti-terrorist hotline and leaked it on the internet.A hacking group named TeamPoison claimed responsibility for the cyber-attack and said it was made in protest at extradition laws. The group uploaded a recording to YouTube apparently consisting of a phone conversation between Met police anti-terrorist hotline staff, as well astwo recordingsofprank callsit made to the hotline.The boys, aged 16 and 17, were arrested at an address in the West Midlands by detectives from the Police Central e-Crime Unit, They were arrested on suspicion of offences under the Malicious Communications Act and the Computer Misuse Act. A Scotland Yard spokesman said the pair were in custody.In afour-minute recordingof the conversation between the anti-terrorist staff on Thursday morning, one person can be heard saying that the hotline has been subject to about 700 phone calls "from a group known as TeamPoison". The person is then heard to say: "One of the conversations I had last night was leaked on YouTube."That leaked conversation is understood to be a prank call from a TeamPoison member identifying himself with the words "Trick, I'm from TeamPoison, I'm Robert West." After a four-minute exchange, the official is heard telling the prank caller that the incident is being referred to the FBI.In a separate prank call, uploaded by TeamPoison to YouTube on Wednesday, an official can seemingly be heard telling the caller: "You're constantly blocking our phones … People cannot get through when you're constantly coming through here with your phone calls. Other people that need our help can't get through because you're constantly putting this TeamPoison stuff on. It's just getting a bit tedious now."The Metropolitan police said the hackers had not made the recording via their "internal systems", so the public could be confident of using the hotline in confidence. But the cyber-attack will raise huge national security concerns and fresh questions about the security of sensitive police communications. It comes weeks after a separate group of hackers uploaded what it claimed was a recording of detectives from the FBI, Scotland Yard and other police forces.The hacker collective said it had also launched a "phone-bombing" attack on the anti-terrorist hotline. This is a similar process to bringing down a website with a denial of service attack. It involves using a computer or computers to send repeated calls to the number to prevent other calls from getting through.It is not clear how the group recorded the conversation between officials in the police unit. In an interview with Sky News on Thursday afternoon, a person who claimed to be responsible for the interception of the anti-terrorist calls said: "It took no skill whatsoever. It was pretty much an in-and-out job … It was pretty much simple."The person, who used Skype and had an American accent, added: "We're showing MI6 that they are nothing but jokes and they are the real terrorists. We fear no authority whatsoever. The reason we have been around so long is because we're so knowledgeable. Our main factor is Middle East-related … In a nutshell we really don't care about ourselves more than we care about real people. That's why we're here."Ailsa Beaton, director of information for the Met, said: "We have throughout the day researched the allegation that the anti-terrorist hotline had been hacked and activists' claims that they were able to listen unrestricted to confidential communications. We are confident the [Met] communication systems have not been breached and remain, as they always have been, secure. We are satisfied that any recording would have been made via the receiving handset only and not from an attack on internal systems. The public can remain confident in the ability to communicate in confidence and that the integrity of the anti-terrorist hotline remains in place."
Google hasreported strong first-quarter earnings, up 60% year-on-year to $2.89bn (£1.81bn), with gross revenues also up, by 24%, to $10.65bn, and has announced a two-for-one stock split that will effectively act as a one-off dividend for existing shareholders, while retaining the co-founders' control of voting stock.After paying $2.5bn of "traffic acquisition costs" (TAC) to companies that bring traffic to the site, Google's revenues were $8.14bn. But cost-per-click (CPC) – the average amount that Google charges advertisers when users click on an ad – fell for the second quarter in a row, by 6%, and was down 12% year-on-year. That almost certainly indicates a greater shift  among users towards mobile rather than desktop access, reflecting the growth in smartphones – particularly the use of Google's Android mobile software.Larry Page, Google's chief executive, and co-founder Sergey Brinannounced in a letter that they were splitting the stockto create a new tranche of non-voting stock, continuing the stock structure that they created when the company was floated in 2004. The move ensures that Page and Brin will retain control of the company: "These non-voting shares will be available for corporate uses, like equity-based employee compensation, that might otherwise dilute our governance structure," they said.Page and Brin hint that outside shareholders might not have the guts for longer-term bets and could outvote the directors if the voting stock is further diluted: "In our experience, success is more likely if you concentrate on the long term. Technology products often require significant investment over many years to fulfil their potential. For example, it took over three years just to ship our first Android handset, and then another three years on top of that before the operating system truly reached critical mass. These kinds of investments are not for the faint-hearted."As has been the case throughout its life, almost all of Google's revenues came from advertising – just over 96%, compared to 97% a year ago. Similarly, the US remains its dominant market, comprising 46% of revenues; the next biggest is the UK, where it generated $1.15bn, or 11%, of revenues, approximately in line with previous quarters.Speaking after the results were announced, Page dodged questions from analysts about whether Google will release its own tablet to compete with Apple's iPad, which dominates that space and is forecast to continue its lead over the next four years. Page seemed to hint that any tablet would be lower-priced to compete with Amazon's Kindle Fire, which uses a version of Google's Android software without connecting to the search giant's servers, rather than at the top end where Apple dominates: "There's been a lot of success on some lower-priced tablets that were on Android, perhaps not the full Google Android," Page said. "We believe there's going to be a lot of success at the lower end of the market, and it's an area we think is important and we're going to focus on."Page insisted that despite the falls in CPC value "our business is healthy", and that the fall was due to a combination of foreign exchange rates, the growth of mobile and Apple's iPad (Google pays Apple for its favoured position as the search engine on the iPhone and iPad), and "changes in ad quality". He insisted there was no weakness in Google advertising: "If anything, lower CPCs give better return on advertising spend: it's a lower cost so a better return on investment for advertisers."He also declined to give concrete numbers about how many people directly use Google+, the company's fledgling social network. Earlier this week the company gave the site a facelift, and said that 170 million people had "upgraded" to register with Google+, with 100m logging into those accounts in the past 30 days.Asked whether Android – which has become the dominant mobile operating system for smartphones, and for which Google does not charge for a licence – could lower TAC or lead to increased advertising revenue per device, Page dismissed the question as "pretty short-term". He continued: "We don't get many new operating systems – there's only been a few in my lifetime – and Android is really about increasing the pace of innovation, the use of mobile devices, getting a greater user experience to our users. We're in the very early stages of that. The computer I carry in my pocket is as good as the one on my desktop a few years ago. So we're excited about things we're doing." He said he was confident that CPC advertising yields would improve on mobile.
A software hitch has forced the company which allocates new internet "domains" – such as .com – to extend the deadline of the biggest shakeup of online naming in the internet's history, just hours before it was due to close.Companies had been staking up to $185,000 a time to bid for the rights to control their own domains, such as ".camera", ".london" or ".adult", using software run by Icann, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, which allocates blocks of internet addresses and decides when to allow new global domains to be created.But in a statementIcann said thatthe "TLD Application Software" (TAS) which accepts registration applications suffered a "technical issue". It did not specify what the issue was but said that it showed "unusual behaviour" and that it had shut it down "to protect all applicants and allow adequate time to resolve the issue".Icann told the Guardian that "this was not a cyber-attack of any type" and that no application data had been lost.Bidding for the entirely new group of "global top level domains" (gTLDs) opened on 11 January and was meant to close at midnight on Thursday. Anyone willing to pay a processing fee of $185,000 (£119,500) could apply to run their own TLD – such as ".apple" or ".microsoft" or ".london" – and would be able to decide who could create a website or internet address within that space, and charge registry fees.Icann has said that it would not announce which gTLDs have been applied for until 30 April.Now it has said that rather than closing the bidding, it will reopen at 23.59 GMT on Tuesday for three days, and finally close on Friday 20 April at 23.59 GMT. "The deadline is being extended to give applicants the time they would have had if we had not shut down the application system to allow for the diagnoses, any possible repair and subsequent testing of the system.David Taylor from the solicitors Hogan Lovells commented: "The launch of new gTLDs is likely to cause an unprecedented shakeup to the domain name system and the internet in 2013 and onward. Whilst the aim is to enhance diversity, choice, competition and innovation, it will inevitably cause a considerable burden on rights owners across the globe, who will need to carefully reconsider their online strategies. Along with the threat to business and brands there has nevertheless been a significant opportunity for brands to apply themselves during the window that has just closed. It will be very interesting to see how many and who has applied when the list is published and we can expect some significant disputes."Some companies have already shown their hand – although others will have wanted to keep any bids secret so that they do not have to get into a bidding war with anyone else who wants the same extension. The Florida company ICM Registry that brought the ".xxx" domain to the internet said on Thursday that it has applied for three more adult-themed domains: ".sex," ''.porn" and ".adult". It is not known yet whether others will have applied for the same.ICM launched its ".xxx" domain in December 2011 and says it now has 215,000 sites registered in it.
You wrote inanother column: 'My preferred strategy for scanning things (or ripping CDs), is to do the job so well that it never has to be done again.' Please could you share your thoughts on the best way to do this?Michael StevensConverting or "ripping" an audio CD into a digital file is a time-consuming process, and there are at least two sensible options. The first is to make a perfect copy using a lossless system such asFLAC(Free Lossless Audio Codec). The second is to make a copy that is so good that you will never be able to hear the difference. I chose the second option, and encoded tracks in 320kbps MP3.FLAC captures all the information in the recording, but it has two significant disadvantages: it produces large files, and not all portable music players can handle it. (Unfortunately, both Apple and Microsoft have their own lossless formats.) The MP3 codec, by contrast, delivers smaller files that almost every device – PC, phone, MP3 player, CD player etc – can play. It's the closest thing we have to a universal music format.I could have used a lower bit rate than 320kbps (actually VBR: variable bit rate), and I can't reliably hear the difference between lossless and 196kbps MP3 files. However, using a higher bit rate should mean that when I buy better equipment -– such as a high-end MP3 player – it won't expose problems that were masked before. As you may have found, a good quality hi-fi stack and studio monitors can reveal flaws in music files that are inaudible when using a mainstream MP3 player with headphones or earbuds. This applies to CDs as well.I could also have used a lower bit rate with the AAC file format, because it is more efficient than MP3. AAC makes a real difference at low bit rates, especially below 128kbps, but it doesn't make any practical difference at 256kbps and higher bit rates. I decided against AAC because it was far less widely supported than MP3, because there are several versions of AAC, and because I noticed most people like me were using MP3. (If a lot of people have the same problem, someone will produce a fix.)When I wrote a feature about this,Finding the music format of the future, way back in 2007, I was bullish about AAC. Apple had just decided to offer unprotected 256kbps AAC files alongside its DRM-protected 128kbps AAC files, which I wouldn't use even if they were free. However, AAC has not made the sort of progress I expected, and I haven't regretted choosing MP3.So, what's the best way to rip your files? This topic has been debated in considerable depth for at least two decades by people who are much more qualified than I am, so I decided to adopt what many experts considered the best approach. That was to rip CDs using Exact Audio Copy (EAC) software and the open source LAME, following one of the guides at the Hydrogen Audio website:EAC and LAME. (The name stands recursively for Lame Aint an MP3 Encoder.)I was interested to find that the results sounded better to someone who doesn't have a clue what a file format is, and has zero interest in the topic. I had shown my wife how to rip her own (classical) CDs on a Mac laptop using the iTunes defaults and left her to it: job done. A few days later, she got me to rerip them using my system because she wasn't happy with the sound quality.Hydrogen Audio has quite a fewGuides, including nine that use EAC. But if you decide to useCDex and FLAC, for example, there's a guide for that.Hard drive sizes have grown over the past half dozen years, so we now have 750GB and 1TB drives where we used to have 120GB or 150GB drives. This means the extra size of FLAC files – which can be roughly half the size of the original WAV files – is less of an issue. For comparison, a 24-bit FLAC version of Pink Floyd's Dark Side of the Moon (1973) takes up 239MB whereas my 320kbps MP3 version takes up 71MB.You may find lossless files take up too much space, but it depends how many CDs you want to rip.Although not every device will play FLAC, you can use these files to produce MP3, AAC, WMA or other lossy formats for mobile devices. The lossless rip becomes the master copy of the CD, so you never have to rip it again. If you need 320kbps MP3 files for a good quality MP3 player and/or 128kbps versions for a mobile phone, you can make them whenever you like.This is not the same as "transcoding" between different lossy formats, such as MP3 or WMA and AAC. That leads to a loss in quality, and is always a bad idea.I didn't rip things to FLAC, back in the day, and I'm not entirely sure I'd do it now. But if you don't have one or two decades of music files or want to make a fresh start, it's certainly worth considering.Also, if we are ever going to move to a system that provides better-than-CD quality, FLAC is by far the most popular format.Linn Recordssells 24-bit studio master recordings in FLAC format, and Apple Corps and EMI released a limited edition of The Beatles back catalogue in 24-bit FLAC and 320kbps MP3 on an Apple-shaped USB stick.The problem with FLAC files is that Apple iPods won't play them.This isn't a practical problem at the moment: they consume so much space, you probably wouldn't want to play FLAC files on a mobile device. However, people who are solidly in the iPod/iPhone/iTunes camp should consider using ALAC, Apple's Lossless Audio Codec, instead. Most iPods with recent firmware can play ALAC files, it's used in Airtunes, and Apple has now made the format open source. Lossless is lossless so ALAC files should sound identical to FLAC files (as long as you haveiTunes' Soundcheck switched off during playback). It's really a matter of convenience.Of course, Macs can play FLAC files, and Mac users can convert FLAC (and other) files into other formats using, for example, the open sourceMax. If you are going to transcode audio files for mobile use, it doesn't matter whether you convert them from ALAC or FLAC.
As you may well have heard by now, Namco has announced that it's bringing From Software's relentless masterpiece Dark Souls to PC. Subtitled 'The Prepare To Die Edition' (because, you know, we didn't die enough in the console version), the fresh version will feature exclusive new content and an enhanced PVP mode, "allowing players to more closely assemble battles against oneanother online in an all-out fight to the death that fans have demanded".The additional content is still mostly under wraps, but the publisher's press release does highlight a whole extra chapter,  'Artorias of the Abyss', which will include new areas, enemies and bosses.The conversion has been undertaken by the original dev team at From Software and is likely to include a few other surprises.Later on today, we'll be in a group interview with producer Hidetaka Miyazaki and should be able to fire at least a couple of questions in his direction. If you have anything you want to ask about the conversion, or Dark Souls in general, let me know via the comments section!
"And I looked, and behold a pale horse: and his name that sat on him was Death, and Hell followed with him."There are no prizes then for guessing which of the Four Horsemen features in Darksiders II, the 2012 sequel to 2010's acclaimed title where War took centre stage. A cynic, ahem, might speculate that further sequels are going to be less than glamorous – Famine and Pestilence aren't obvious heroes, anti- or otherwise – but Vigil Games have already considered this."We've never really stuck to the actual Horsemen, the official Biblical version," explains lead designer Hayden Dalton. "Names are being bandied about future more games – Fury and Strife, for example." He shrugs. "We want to sell games at the end of the day."That, according to some reports was the problem first time out as, in spite of glowing reviews, Darksiders' sales figures didn't match expectations. THQ had always envisaged a franchise however and, if this preview session is anything to go by, they've not been resting on their proverbials."There was so much we wanted to do in the first game that we weren't able to," explains Hayden. "Questing, looting, customisation, the expansion of the game, more involved skill trees … And we've got the technology now to do that."While a couple of hours hands-on with a single level of Darksiders II isn't necessarily indicative of the game as a whole, early signs are positive. Death is a more athletic protagonist than War both in terms of negotiating the environment and dealing with numerous foes. Fighting – with dual scythes, naturally – is smooth (and there's an enormous number of spells and tricks that can, and should, be added via the Skill Trees) but it's Death's other tricks that impress most: wall runs, pillar climbs and jumps and Death Grip (think supernatural grappling hook) allow Death the ability to roam. And with a play environment some four times the size of the original roam you will."You can play straight through," adds Hayden, "but it's not a bad thing to stray off the path and I think it's a game you can enjoy and explore for months."While certainly a challenge in terms of maps and puzzles – "we're not spoonfeeding" – the design of the game appears to allow some wandering but, happily, also makes it relatively easy to get back to the main objective. "Getting lost is one of my pet peeves," says Hayden. "The artwork's on two different levels. One is communicating the story to the player, the exposition, the other is making the player understand the environment they're in, where they need to go next. We've tried to highlight things with shadows and lighting so you're compelled to go in a certain way or can get back on the path without neon arrows saying 'Go This Way'."Like the original, end of level Boss Battles are also going to be time consuming and tough: perhaps even tougher than before. Of the assembled press that attempted the climactic fight at this preview – and which sees Death's mount, Despair (not Binky, sadly) enter the fray – none that I spoke to manage to finish it.• Darksiders II is released on 29 June. On this evidence, it's likely to be a date worth waiting for
Apple says it will develop a tool to remove the Flashback malware reckoned to have infected more than 600,000 Macintosh computers worldwide, most recently via a flaw in Oracle's Java software, following the worst attacks against the platform in the past decade.But in abrief document posted on Wednesday, the company did not offer any advice on how users could find out whether their machine was infected, nor – aside from updating their software – how they could protect themselves against infection.Update:Apple hasreleased the removal tool, for systems running Mac OSX 10.6 and 10.7.Users of systems running earlier versions of Mac OS X are advised to disable Java.(The security companyF-Secure has instructions so that Mac users can discover whether they are infected.Mashable also offers links to a pair of scriptsthat will check Safari – though not other browsers – for infection.)The first variants of Flashback appeared last September, masquerading as updates to Adobe's Flash player software. More recent variants exploited other flaws – notably in Java.Once installed, the malware monitors network traffic to steal passwords and login details for various sites and systems, attempts to install itself as a root program able to access all users' files, and may also download other software from control servers silently. It could also organise infected machines into a botnet able to attack websites or, potentially, host fake websites and other unwanted content.The latest version using the Java exploit meant users could be infected without taking any action via their browser if Java was enabled simply by navigating to an infected site.A number of websites require Java to provide functionality. Although Java is not included in Mac OS X 10.7, aka Lion, which was released last year, anyone who had upgraded their system from an earlier version of the OS would have it, as would anyone who downloaded it to run programs such as Adobe's Creative Suite.Crucially, Apple maintains its own version of Java, and had left the flaw unpatched for weeks: Oracle released a fix on 17 February, which was distributed to Windows users.Brian Krebs, a security expert,commentsthat Apple's lackadaisical (and oftenplain puzzling) response to patching dangerous security holes perpetuates the harmful myth that Mac users don't need to be concerned about malware attacks.Krebs says: "If you don't need Java, remove it from your system, whether you are a Mac or Windows user."The extent of the outbreak makes the Flashback infection, which was first detected at the end of March by the Russian security firm Dr Web, by far the largest ever to hit the Mac OSX platform. In relative terms, it is at least equivalent to theConficker outbreak on Windows, which affected millions of PCs – though only affecting less than 1% of the total installed base.In the second half of 2011, Apple Macintosh sales passed 5% of the total PC market for the first time in more than a decade; thelatest figures from Gartnersay that in the US, it achieved 10% of personal computer sales in the first quarter of the year. That may have led malware writers to target the platform with renewed vigour.Neither Flasback's authors nor their location has become clear. In May 2011, Russian hackers targetedMac OS X, which was hit by a wave of infectionsdriven by a Trojan program called MacDefender – often spread via infected images in Google's image search. But the combination of a software update from Apple, and araid by Russian policeput paid to the short-lived attack.Although a number of commentators forecast at the time of MacDefender that it was the beginning of a fresh wave of attacks against the Mac OS X platform, it didn't materalise. At the same time, companies including Microsoft have made renewed efforts to close down botnets and capture those behind aggressive malware.John Welch, who administers several hundred Macs for the organisation where he works, discovered that a number of the machines were infected by forms of Flashback, although in many cases the installation failed; that in turn locked out users who tried to log onto the machines, because certain files that Flashback told the system to load were not present. (The organisation uses Sophos antivirus on its machines."It seems that the programmers behind it simply found a better infection vector, and used it," Welch told the Guardian. "I'm not *that* impressed with it, I've seen too many half-done attempts to infect a machine where the silly thing couldn't even install correctly, so I'm not sure it's really all that clever."He thinks that the principal threat will continue to be from infected documents rather than the core OS – though, he says: "... not because Mac OS X or UNIX are magically invulnerable. (There's a lot of magical thinking on this subject.) It's more because due to some well-intentioned, but poor decisions made by Microsoft decades ago, the path to infect Windows was an eight-lane highway vs the muddy goat trail that was Unix. However, if you move off the OS proper, it gets more common."Most high-profile attacks in the past few years have come from infected files which use weaknesses in associated software: Adobe's PDF and Flash Player have become increasingly common targets on both the Windows and Mac platforms, while Microsoft's Office suite – of Word, Excel and Powerpoint – are also frequently targeted by hackers seeking to subvert systems."If it runs code, it can be compromised and run malware," Welch notes. "It's just a matter of how much brainpower and skill someone wants to put behind it. Given the kind of money malware is now generating, there is a lot of both involved."But he does think Apple has been too slow to react. "This is a problem for Apple, and one I hope goes away with [Steve] Jobs not running the company. He had some issues with communication. I think Apple needs to speed up its reaction to verified threats, and they need to stop treating everything like it's [as secret as] the next iPhone. Yes, some things do need a great deal of security, but patching a *Java security hole* is not one of them. I know it's easy to get into that 'MUST NEVER SAY ANYTHING UNTIL IT'S DONE' mentality, but this has burned Apple in the past. They've improved somewhat, but have a ways to go."With Apple having made both Flash and Java optional installations on existing desktop systems, the "attack surface" for malware authors has lessened. Welch points out: "Java is a useful tool that fixes certain problems better than other tools. It's no more necessary than any other language or runtime."A huge percentage of malware attacks happen via email and websites, yet no one asks 'should we really be using email and browsing the web?' [The open source database] MySQL and [web scripting language] PHP are commonly attacked, and successfully; no one questions those tools, even though they are a common infection vector.If Java is the best, or even an equally good tool for the job, I think one is silly to ignore it because 'it's an infection vector'. So is PDF. I don't see people advocating the end of PDF. Bagging on Java in this case is silly. I do like that Apple doesn't install it by default, which I think is a good idea. The need for it is not *common* over the entire population of computer users, so making it an optional install is not a bad idea at all."Yet even with the latest infection, amounting to 1% of the estimated installed base of Macs, there aren't so far signs of a deluge of attacks against Macs. Between MacDefender in May of 2011, and Flashback between September and the present day, the amount of Mac-targeting malware remains remarkably low; while Graham Cluley of Sophos points out in "a short history of Mac malware", the amount targeting the platform has trebled in the past three years – but that still only amounts to a couple of new attacks per year. And one piece of software identified as "malware",from PremierOpinion, is arguably no such thing, but a user-sanctioned tracking system for web use.Sophos does offerfree antivirus software for Mac users– though it's not available through the App Store (because Apple limits what can be sold through it; apparently antivirus software isn't allowed.) Graham Lee, formerly of Sophos, also points out that antivirus appssold through the App Storecan't do real-time scanning, because they aren't allowed to install kernel extensions – which means that new infections can't be caught as they happen, but only retrospectively. (Note:apps not installed via the App Store can install kernel extensions, and so can do real-time scanning - as Sophos AV does. Apologies for not clarifying this initially.)The question now is whether the attacks will get worse – or if malware authors have other targets they can more profitably focus on. Whereas even five years ago the options for malware authors were simple – write something to attack Windows machines, or Macs; the potential rewards were over 19 times greater for the former – now there are almost as many smartphones (where Android apps have become an attractive source of revenue for some, using "Trojan diallers" which silently dial expensive numbers or transmit sender-pays text messages) and, increasingly, websites which have credit card details, or phishing sites that can capture login details for PayPal or for webmail accounts – where the latter can then be used to send outfake frantic messages claiming you've been mugged, and asking for untraceable wire payments.In short, Apple may actually have been fortunate enough to survive the riskiest time – when the desktop and laptop computer were the principal form for computing – as malware has moved to a cross-platform format in which phones, websites, databases and simple social engineering have become equally good methods for criminals to get access to personal and financial details. It doesn't though mean that the danger has passed. But while 600,000 machines infected is certainly a lot, it pales in comparison to the millions of credit cards compromised by the attack on Sony's PlayStation Network, or themore recent hack of a US payments processor.In short: have antivirus, but the bigger threats are probably outside your computer.
I can remember exactly where I was when I first saw the zombie dogs jump through the window in the original Resident Evil. I was in the Edge magazine office, after hours, alone, with only a decrepit security guard creeping about the place for company. It was the first time a video game had genuinely made me jump with shock. It would certainly not be the last time the series would do that to me.In October, Capcom will release the sixth title in the main Resident Evil series. This time the globetrotting plot follows Leon Kennedy, Chris Redfield and mercenary Jake Muller (shock horror – the son of Albert Wesker!) in a bioterrorist drama featuring a new menace, the C-Virus. Each character has a partner, who functions as an AI helper if you go solo – or you can play the whole campaign in off- or online co-op. Leon gets US government agent Helena Harper, Chris goes with fellow BSAA hardnut Piers Nivans and Jake counts on Sherry Birkin, daughter of Umbrella scientists William and Annette, and just a schoolgirl in Resident Evil 2.There are some alarm bells ringing. First of all, the publisher has described it very much as an "actionhorror" game which puts it into the same category as instalments four and five – which weren't very horrific at all. Action denotes dynamism – quick movement, plenty of ammo – and this runs against the mechanics of the original titles. It's been written many times before, but one of the main qualities of Resi 1 and 2 was the sense of restriction: the characters were difficult to control, employing a weird turning mechanism that made it tough to avoid undead lunges. There was also a chronic paucity of ammo, meaning that every shot had to count. As a result, the stress, the sense of expectation, was often unbearable.Brilliantly, this system aped the subjective, tightly controlled camera work of the finest horror movie directors. The likes of George Romero and Sam Raimi continually use strange disorientating angles and point-of-view effects to de-centre the viewer – to both pull them into the action and keep the full mise-en-scene partially hidden. Restriction equals tension.A key feature of Resident Evil 6, however, looks to be its sense of fluidity. The game features an "evolved control system" allowing characters to shoot while running, to slide and roll, to take cover and to engage in melee combat. This totally alters the psychological standpoint from incapacity and evasion to strength and capability. It is the stuff of third-person action titles such as Gears of War. Horror works not only on fear but on weakness and empathy – the greatest horror flicks, from Night of the Living Dead to Final Destination, provide vulnerable characters operating at the edges of their capabilities. The Others would have in no way been improved if Nicole Kidman had got hold of a rocket launcher.In Resi 6, even the enemies have been upscaled. Taking a cue from 28 Days Later, C-Virus victims can run, jump and even use weapons. This is no doubt more challenging, but it could also strip them of the uncanny dread attached to the zombie archetype. The undead – rotting, horrific, numb – represent our fears of old age and death; their lumbering mindlessness a kind of post-modern senility. It's not so bad if they get to leap over cars firing twin Uzis.This interplay of restriction and tension works on an environmental scale, too. Horror fiction feeds on our fears of entrapment, of the unknown dangers lurking in shadows and around corners. Hence, most of Resident Evil was set in a creaking mansion filled with small rooms and narrow corridors; Resident Evil 2 started out in enclosed alleyways and a labyrinthine police building. Like The Shining, like REC, these games are a clusterfuck of claustrophobic anxieties.Resis 4 and 5, however, widened the focus, taking in whole villages – and Resi 6 pans out even further. This is a worldwide epidemic, taking in North America, Eastern Europe and China; it looks like the stories will flit between the locations. Horror rarely does this. Even in post-apocalyptic fiction, the focus is almost always on a small group of survivors and their personal experiences: the father and son in The Road, Don Johnson and his canine in A Boy and His Dog. Resi 6 will have to work hard to keep us engaged enough to be truly scared.But then, the game does buy into one important horror trope: relentlessness. In the Eastern European sections, players will encounter what looks to be a biological weapon experiment gone horribly awry. The J'avo are hulking clone soldiers, sent into war zones like an infantry equivalent of drone craft. Apparently, they can regenerate when injured, and also mutate badly damaged limbs into monstrous new appendages. So you get that sense of inhuman resistance: like Michael Myers, like Jason Voorhees, like Freddy Krueger – they just keep coming back.Better still, the C-Virus gives rise to a new physical state – Chrysalide – in which a critically injured body utterly mutates, spawning entirely new creatures. Now, we're getting back into the DNA of the original Resi trilogy, that whole undertone of "body horror" so brilliantly explored and exploited by directors such as Cronenberg and Shinya Tsukamoto, which jabs at our fears of infection and physical deterioration. Judging by the trailer and screenshots, we can certainly expect plenty of highly detailed gore – there is hanging flesh, there are oozing eye sockets and bloody cavities in pulverised skulls. We are in very different territory to the now rather comedic low resolution zombies twitching their way through the first Resi title.The horror, in the end, can be in the detail. Capcom must flesh out its undead hordes, its viral catastrophe, its zombified war machines, so that the game begins to resemble a nightmarish approximation of global news, lunging from one horrific trouble spot to the next with dizzying abandon. At the same time, the YouTube era has also brought with it a new kind of visual horror: accessibility. Broadcasters are being cut out of the media pipeline as smartphone footage, uploaded directly to the web, brings us the primary source material in all its unexpurgated, unreconstructed reality.Can Resident Evil 6 feed on that? Movies like Contagion have tried to explore a new era of pervasive media horror. We don't have to imagine anymore – we can access everything we fear on our PCs, cables TVs and smartphones – we're in constant touch with our nightmares. Maybe the old restriction/tension metric isn't relevant any more; maybe the idea of isolation is just quaint nostalgia. Is Resi Evil the death of survival horror? Not if the developers understand that those dark corridors and unlit rooms are everywhere now, and that the undead are only ever a Google search away.• Resident Evil 6 is due out on PS3 and Xbox 360 on 2 October. A PC version will follow
A selection of 22 new apps for you today:Premier League 20 SeasonsGood news for football fans in England: the Premier League now has an official iOS app that "relives the past 20 seasons", with 100 videos of "iconic moments", quizzes and competitions. The idea is to update the app with five moments per season, so five more will be added in July 2012. It's the work of IMG Media.iPhone / iPadGoogle CurrentsGoogle launched its online-magazines aggregation app Google Currents in the US in December 2011, and has since signed up nearly 400 publishers. Now it's gone global for iOS and Android, with US titles on board and already some local sites (yes, including The Guardian). The app can also convert blogs into "Currents editions".Android / iPhone / iPadAsdaSupermarket chain Asda has launched a new Android app, with full integration with its e-commerce website, as well as the option to scan barcodes on items at home to add them to a shopping list. There are also special offers, voice search and the ability to check out and book delivery slots for home-shopping orders.AndroidFootball Manager Handheld 2012More football, and this time in an app that is destined to while away a lot of commuter train journeys in the weeks and months ahead. Sports Interactive has brought the iOS version of its Football Manager franchise to Android, offering tactics, training, transfers and more in 12 countries' leagues.AndroidMax Payne MobileFresh from its success with Grand Theft Auto III, Rockstar Games has brought another of its vintage hits – Max Payne – to iOS. Its bullet time gunplay remains intact, but the controls have been reworked for touchscreens.iPhone / iPadCrowiOS action-adventure Crow has been getting huge buzz before its launch, thanks to spectacular visuals and a strong focus on storyline. Made by indie firm Sunside Games, it has the makings of a breakout hit.iPhone / iPadMarvel's The Avengers: Iron Man – Mark VIIBook-app publisher Loud Crow has teamed up with Marvel for a new Avengers iOS app "set in the Marvel cinematic universe" – just in time for the new movie. It's a brand new comic story, plus soundtrack and interactivity.iPhone / iPadNetflixNetflix for Windows Phone isn't a new app, but it is in the UK and Ireland. Subscribers here can now watch shows and films over 3G or Wi-Fi, while also selecting audio and subtitles.Windows PhoneDream:ONCan your iPhone influence your dreams? I (genuinely) had a nightmare consisting entirely of horrific Draw Something sketches the other day. But that's not what Dream:ON is about. It's an experiment to see if playing 'soundscapes' while you sleep can influence your dreams. Space, ocean, rainforest and other soundscapes are available as in-app purchases, and you can find outmore on the project here.iPhoneBurnout CrashEA's latest iOS game is a spin-off from the Burnout console franchise, with the emphasis firmly on creating massive pile-ups. Three modes are included, and 45 levels to smash through. Oh, and the odd tornado, asteroid and tidal wave is thrown in for good measure.iPhone / iPadPress Here: The AppBased on a popular picture-book, this app has 15 mini-games and creative activities for children, all based around dots and drawing. A separate version isavailable for iPhone.iPadBump! Guides 2012 - ParisBilling itself as "the ultimate gay travel companion", this app focuses on the gay and lesbian scene in Paris, including clubs, bars, restaurants and shops, promising to be "a supplement to more straight-laced guides". It joins similar guides toBarcelona,BerlinandFort Lauderdale, which are also out today.iPhoneBubblyVoice-blogging service Bubbly already has an iPhone app in the West, but now there's an Android version too. The idea: a Twitter-style asynchronous social network with voice messages rather than texts. Celebrities give it added cachet, especially for Bollywood fans.AndroidBBC Podcast LoungeThis new Windows Phone app offers a window into the BBC's archives of podcasts from more than 350 programmes. Developed by Igneous Software rather than the Beeb, it can play podcasts in the background, and pin individual programmes to the homescreen.Windows PhoneFighter CityGamevil's newest iPhone game is one of a crop of location-based titles that get you to (virtually) fight other people in your area. The theme here is martial arts rather than the more-common mafia, though: build a dojo, accept apprentices and personalise yourself as you advance.iPhonePopOut! Tale of Benjamin BunnyAnother Loud Crow book-app here, but this time based less on superheroes, and more on cuddly animals. It's an interactive retelling of Beatrix Potter's The Tale of Benjamin Bunny, using a pop-up metaphor for the illustrations and interactivity.AndroidBattleTacHow serious are you about your paintballing? BattleTac is an app providing "real-time GPS tracking, instant messaging and navigation" for the battlefield, to give you an edge on rivals. Although if the developers expect many people to be getting their iPhones out in plain view while paintballing, they're optimistic...iPhone / iPadBarMax Baby BarGot £139.99 to spare and a yen for some Harvard Law School lessons? This is the app for you. It claims to be "the only complete Baby Bar exam review course available on the App Store", with audio lectures, calendar and task list, as well as questions from previous exams in the subject.iPhoneFind a Way JoséIsraeli developer Artlab had a hit with this puzzler on Samsung's bada handsets, but now it's trying its luck on iOS too. It's a 60-level sliding puzzle game with a Mexican tinge, as José tries to find his way to a bottle of Tequila.iPhone / iPadIPL Cricket Fever - DeluxeTo accompany season five of the Indian Premier League cricketing tournament, this iPhone game lets you play as one of the nine teams, with their official players. Expect batting, bowling and celebrating cheerleaders.iPhoneZippityZippity is a useful productivity app for iPhone that opens zip files received in emails or downloaded from the web, so you can preview contents and/or forward them on.iPhoneAR FireAugmented reality mobile games have yet to really take off, but a few more are being developed every month. AR Fire is the latest, getting you to pinpoint a specific colour on your opponent – a blue t-shirt, for example – and then run around blasting one another.iPhone
