It's late on Christmas Day, you're stuffed with turkey, sprouts and cranberry jelly and surveying your presents. It dawns on you that none of your loved ones had any idea what you wanted. Several of them have even managed to buy you the same item. What do you do?You could ask the giver for the receipt, explaining that it really was not your colour or you have never been a fan of Charlotte Church, so you can claim a refund. But for most people, unwanted Christmas presents will end up either in the bin or at the local charity shop.This week, high street bank Abbey announced that, as a nation, we waste &#163;1.3bn on unwanted gifts. So why not make some cash out of those ill-chosen presents? After all, the internet has made the world's ultimate flea-market, eBay, possible - and practically anything can find a buyer.The online auction house will launch a major TV and radio advertising campaign on Boxing Day to persuade recipients of unwanted presents to take the plunge. For the uninitiated, setting up as a seller can be daunting - so a new breed of dotcom entrepreneurs are taking the hassle out of online haggling.David Brackin, a 30-year-old alumnus of management consultants McKinsey, and his chum Fraser Pearce, set up StuffUSell.co.uk earlier this year to help people who would otherwise throw out their unwanted things, to make money by selling them on eBay."The thing most people do not realise is how much sells," he says, which should raise the hopes of anyone looking to find a home for 15 pairs of Santa socks. StuffUSell has flogged everything   from a batch of American car number plates to a fully fitted kitchen.The company does everything for sellers, from collecting the items to be sold, photographing them, creating a listing on eBay and running the auction to collecting payment and to delivering the goods to the buyer. It also deals with the numerous charges that eBay levies on sellers, all for a flat percentage of the sale price."The reason we take a percentage commission is because we are all interested in getting the best value," he says. "Our ideal customers are people who understand eBay is a good idea and would like to sell their stuff but would rather get someone else to do it than engage in all that hassle," he says.So far StuffUSell, based in London, has concentrated on house clearances and dealing with homeowners carrying out a bit of spring cleaning. It also works with businesses looking to use eBay to sell their wares or clear excess stock, but it is now gearing up for the Christmas rush.StuffUSell offers to collect an unlimited number of items for &#163;10 - roughly within the M25 - but potential customers are also free to drop off smaller goods at its locations in London's Earls Court and Finchley Road. From then on it deals with the entire process.StuffUSell advises potential sellers on how much they can expect to get for their item, based on their knowledge of what has been sold on the site over recent weeks. Importantly for sellers who have better things to do with their time than sit at a PC answering emails, they will also deal with queries from potential buyers during the auction process.Such queries, says Mr Brackin, "cover   a whole variety of things and typically include scams, as well as people saying 'can you ship overseas?' and 'is that a scratch I can see in the photo?'."StuffUSell takes 30% of the final sale value of items over &#163;50, and 40% for items sold for a lower price. On particularly high-value goods or batches of identical items, such as a CD collection, its charges are negotiable.eBay brokers such as StuffUSell.co.uk and rivals Auctioning4U.co.uk and SellStuffEasy.co.uk, help first-time sellers get over one of the basic hurdles of eBay - that buyers prefer to buy from sellers who have amassed a certain credibility within the eBay community.When an item is sold, both buyer and seller are allowed to report back on eBay about each other. These recommendations - or criticisms - give a fair indication of whether that seller is worth buying from. New sellers lack these credentials; many gain them by buying goods before starting to sell, but using an outfit that sells on a regular basis is another option.For people with a bit of time on their hands, though, running your own auction can be great fun, according to Richard Ambrose, category manager at eBay.co.uk. His top tips for first-time sellers are to get a decent photo, look for similar items already being auctioned to give a good idea of which of eBay's 12,000 categories it should be in, and above all not to lie about what you are selling."Be as clear and honest as possible - if the thing you are selling has any faults or defects it's best to describe them as clearly as possible," he says.You'll need to decide a starting price for the auction. eBay charges "insertion   fees" based on this starting price. These range from 15p for a starting price of 99p or less to &#163;2 for an item selling at more than &#163;100. Mr Ambrose reckons "if you set a low starting price you are more likely to attract bids and that draws people to your item as momentum builds behind the auction."Auctions last one, three, five, seven or ten days - with seven being the default and most popular. At the end of the auction eBay charges a further fee based on the final sale value, which ranges from 5.25% for an item sold for less than &#163;30 to 1.75% for an item at more than &#163;600.The next issue is payment. The majority of sellers use eBay's own Paypal system, which acts as a clearing house between the seller's bank account and the buyer's account, credit or debit card. Again, however, there is a charge. While free for the buyer, sellers must pay a 20p fee plus 3.4% of the value of the transaction - which will of course include the cost of postage the seller has added to the final value of the item sold.After an auction is closed, the onus is on the buyer to make the first move and Mr Ambrose advises: "if you do not know the buyer, wait for their payment to clear. But then make sure you get the thing in the post straight away."So will eBay be able to take unwanted handknitted jumpers? Its clothing category has been one of the star performers of 2004 and listings even include socks, "but the emphasis tends to be on designer clothes rather than granny's knitted jumpers," says Mr Ambrose."But if you do have other excess presents that you do not particularly want it's a very good time to consider making the leap."
It's just about time for you to sit back with a cup of mulled wine and a mince pie in preparation for the gorge-fest that is the holiday. What better way to prepare yourself than by reading up on what the gamesblog has been up to? So you're up to scratch and fully informed, here is the week that was.MondayGTA saves family from evil burglarsDVD war enters a new levelMarvel heroes get mobile1st Sony PSP handheld reviews are in!TuesdayJeff Minter and Lionhead pull the Unity plugOddworld Inhabitants to attack politics nextPSP problems?Gameloft offers free mobile gameOrigins of PlayStation: A chat with Phil HarrisonWednesday$26,500 for property that doesn't existBloody novelty controllersThursdayThe problem with idiots - Keith takes on the griefersHow to make mobile gaming attractiveIndependent Games Festival finalists announcedRetro game Dizzy for freeFridayGameboy better than morphine2004 EDGE awardsFinal Fantasy to strike up a chord in Chicago
After the tremendous success of the gala Final Fantasy concert, performed by the Los Angeles Philharmonic before the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) last May, acclaimed Square Enix composerNobuo Uematsuand the Chicagoland Pops Orchestra are joining powers to celebrate the in-game music to kick offa North America tour. You can buy tickets for the 19 February gighere.Their LA stopover sold out within three days, with fans and curious public alike queuing up to see the cultural output from one of Japan's most celebrated modern artists. So big is his impact that Time Magazine recently honoured the composer with an "Innovator" award.In-game music fandom is distinctly niche in the West, with the emphasis on individual artists rather than composers. However, with the audio capabilities of contemporary and next generation consoles, we should see the new platforms emerging as soundboards for original classics. I've got my fingers crossed ex-Oingo Boingo front manDanny Elfmangets in on the act.
Perry de Havilland over at theBig Blog Companyshares his point of view on "why Flash sites are... EVIL":I actually think Flash is a splendid thing when used in moderation for banners and other design features, it is just 100% Flash sites I dislike.Flash sites tend to be slow and people hate waiting.  Secondly not everyone uses Flash enabled browsers... Thirdly and most importantly, the biggest flaw is that Flash sites might as well be invisible to Google and most other search engines, which is a huge disadvantage.All very salient points (though I, unlike Perry, hate flash ads and banners), and as someone who is interested in accessibility issues I'd also point out that they are usually awful from that point of view.However, I wonder whether Flash should find its real calling over the new 3G phone network. After all, if somebody put their weight behind Flash-enabled phones and designers built small versions of websites in Flash (or Flash Lite), it could be interesting.It's been nearly a year and a half since DoCoMo's started trying it in Japan, and T-Mobilehave tried something--- but now there's 3G in Europe it would be nice to see what it can really do.Scratch all that silly Wap stuff and stop pretending that it's easy to navigate a traditionally-designed website on a tiny screen ... But that's probably just another one to put on the wishlist.
Famously pretentious, but far less fun than it used to be,Edgemagazine is still one of only two games mags aimed at adults (the patchy GamesTM being the other) This makes its 2004 Awards announcement newsworthy. The full list is below, but highlights include Half Life 2 winning best game and Rockstar North (developers of GTA) winning best developer. For some reason Nintendo picked up the publisher of the year award - possibly due to the famous snobbery of the magazine. Sure DS and Four Swords look good, but neither are out in the UK until 2005! Almost makes the inclusion of World of Warcaft in ourgame of the year polllook respectable. Nintendo love-in aside, what else did Edge choose?The 2004 Edge Awards(Winner listed first, runners up in no particular order)The 2004 Edge Award for Best GameHalf-Life 2 (PC)The Legend of Zelda: Four Swords Adventure (Gamecube)Halo 2 (Xbox)The 2004 Edge Award for InnovationHalf-Life 2 (PC)Katamari Damacy (PS2)The Legend of Zelda: Four Swords Adventure (Gamecube)The 2004 Edge Award for Best Visual DesignHalf-Life 2 (PC)Far Cry (PC)Katamari Damacy (PS2)The 2004 Edge Award for Best Audio DesignThief: Deadly Shadows (PC)Katamari Damacy (PS2)Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (PS2)The 2004 Edge Award for Best Online ExperienceHalo 2 (Xbox)Monster Hunter (PS2)Final Fantasy XI (PS2/PC)The 2004 Edge Award for Best DeveloperRockstar NorthThe Creative AssemblySony LondonThe 2004 Edge Award for Best PublisherNintendoRockstarUbisoftThe 2004 Edge Award for Best HardwareNintendo DSGametrakMawaru: Made in Wario (Game Boy Advance)What do you think then? Any they missed out?
Slashdotcarries some information on a new Motorola MP3 phone that's going to be compatible with Apple's iTunes.The rumours have abounded for a few months, and there's a quote inForbesthat elucidates a little:"We've said we have something coming on this in the first half of 2005 and we're definitely on schedule for that. Hopefully you'll be able to see more about it soon," says Eddy Cue, vice president in charge of applications at Apple.A contact at Motorola confirmed the news to me, and with any luck I'll be able to get some more information and have a look at the unit at Macworld in January.I've been waiting for Apple to make a move towards the mobile phone market - looks like it won't be long until it's a reality.
A hospital in New Jersey is considering distributing Gameboys to kids before surgery instead of pumping them full of tranquilizers, says/..According to an article onSFGate.com, kids demonstrate less pre-op anxiety when immersed in a handheld game than when doped up or forced to play with cuddly bears. It also helps to reduce potential spikes in blood pressure which, says the study, hinders the healing process.Guess they weren't playing Advance Wars 2.
Marlon Brando will reprise his role in The Godfather from beyond the grave, appearing in a virtual form on a new videogame.The rights to reproduce Brando's likeness were obtained by the game company Electronic Arts before his death on July 1.A computerised Brando will appear as Don Vito Corleone - a role which earned him an Oscar.The game could be based on both Francis Ford Coppola's 1972 movie and the original novel by Mario Puzo.Those enamoured with the film's score will not be disappointed, as Electronic Arts has also secured rights to use the Nino Rota compositions.The Godfather is the second high-profile Hollywood crime story to morph into computer game.Vivendi Universal Games is developing a game of Brian De Palma's 1983 film Scarface which is planned to be a sequel to the movie in which players become involved in a third-person adventure.The Godfather allows players to explore their environment on foot or in vehicles, and interact with other characters. It will have a mature rating and should be available late next year.So far there have been no announcements of other deals with actors from the film, who include Al Pacino and James Caan.Electronic Arts, which holds the rights to Harry Potter films, will also be able to extend its franchise on The Godfather.The game is the latest from Electronic Arts' growing slate of Hollywood licences and will be made in conjunction with Paramount Pictures, according to the Hollywood Reporter newspaper.Electronic Arts usually publishes games for all formats - PlayStation 2, Xbox, GameCube and PC, and The Godfather could follow suit.Game creators will try to blend elements of hugely successful videogames such as Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas.
ITNET, the troubled information technology company thrown off a Cabinet Office contract this summer, has agreed to a &#163;235m takeover by support services firm Serco.The 320p a share cash offer will make ITNET's chief executive Bridget Blow more than &#163;6m richer.Serco is also buying, for &#163;113m cash, RCI, a specialist service supplier to the US defence department.Serco, which holds various PFI contracts with the Ministry of Defence and operates the Docklands Light Railway, said the two deals would "give us improved access to a large and growing market".Shares in ITNET plunged 40% after the Cabinet Office cancelled an &#163;83m five-year contract on the grounds that the timetable for introducing internet systems was running late. ITNET argued that the government had made "significant changes" to the original contract.The company also suffered a setback some years ago when Hackney council cancelled an outsourcing deal.Serco believes that it can reinvigorate the firm and make a new assault on the IT outsourcing market for local authorities. ITNET holds some useful contracts such as the one for Birmingham city council.RCI is being bought on a debt-free basis and should be earnings-enhancing in 2005, said Serco. The US firm, which offers consulting and systems engineering, made a pre-tax profit of $9.1m (&#163;4.6m) last year on turnover of $270m.One broker, Investec Securities, believed that the two acquisitions would be positive for Serco, but other analysts questioned whether it was taking on too much with two purchases at the same time.Serco shares fell 3% to 227.25p. ITNET's shares rose 12.5% to 324.5p, with some analysts speculating that a rival bidder for might emerge. After the deal was announced, Serco bought 5.8% of its target in the market.
Fondly remember the days when games involved characters called the Yolkfolk? Perhaps it was to deflect attention from the cancellation of the Club Football series, but Codemasters andBlitz Gameshave got into the Christmas spirit - Treasure Island Dizzy on C64 has been made available forfree download.Simply grab the ZIP file, install and away you go. I give you five minutes before the warm nostalgic glow gives way to another game of Half Life 2.
Ever since Dr Johnson compiled his highly opinionated dictionary in 1755 (excise: "a hateful tax levied upon commodities"; oat: "a grain which in England is generally given to horses but in Scotland supports the people"), language has been a battlefield.Collins Dictionaries today recognises that fact with the   launch of an online Living Dictionary, in which netheads can suggest new words and argue over whether they should be added to the print version of the dictionary. In fact, "netheads" itself might be a useful starting point for discussion."This is a completely new concept which will provide direct contact between the people who compile dictionaries and the end users," said Jeremy Butterfield, editor in chief of Collins Dictionaries. "It allows us to open up the process of suggesting and selecting words."It seems that Johnson's "harmless drudges" have discovered democracy. The concept is straightforward. You log on towww.collins.co.uk/wordexchange, suggest a word and then wait for other logophiles to commend or berate you. The site has been trialled for the past two weeks and there have already been squabbles.One user suggested "Henmania - the hype surrounding the English tennis player Tim Henman which escalates during Wimbledon each year". "I can't stand this word, not because of the person involved, but because it's a non-word," responded another. "If you add mania to Henman you get Henmanmania. Henmania is going crazy for hens."A second respondent wrote: "Until Henman actual wins something I don't think he should have any word associated with him, unless it is the rather derogatory 'soft cock' that the Australians use to describe him."There is also an illuminating discussion of "cheese-eating surrender monkeys - a term coined by the creators of The Simpsons to describe/insult the French; obviously xenophobic". "It will be interesting to monitor the progress of this phrase," says one editor.Mr Butterfield compared the Living Dictionary with the online Wikipedia encyclopedia. "We are hoping... that people will contribute words which they use in their daily lives, but   which have not yet made it into the printed dictionary."Of the words submitted so far, he identified Arab street, contrasexual, cyberathletics, Ingerland, manny and podcasting as likely candidates for inclusion in print. "Things change very quickly now," he said. "Words can establish themselves within a month."
Last week, IBM agreed to sell its PC business to Lenovo, a Chinese company formerly known as Legend. However, there is no need for buyers to panic.In the short term - 18 months to three years - it should be business as usual. The next generation of ThinkPad portables should arrive on schedule, including the X41, following the current roadmap. As for the long term - beyond five years - we can only wait and see.If you buy a ThinkPad in the UK today, you get the results of American design and business expertise combined with technology and research from IBM's development team in Japan. The machine itself will probably have been assembled in an IBM joint-venture factory in China, then sold and supported by the IBM's personal computer division in the UK.When the deal goes through next year, the same people will do the same things in the same places, under the same leadership, but with different ownership. IBM-badged ThinkPads will be assembled in the same joint-venture factory, which Lenovo is negotiating to take over, or in a similar Lenovo factory in China. And the people in Raleigh, North   Carolina, Japan and the UK will be working for Lenovo, rather than IBM.The leadership will be the same because Steve Ward Jr, who runs IBM's worldwide PC business, will become Lenovo's chief executive officer. Since IBM will have an 18.9% stake in Lenovo, he should get IBM's continued cooperation and support. In any case, as part of the deal, IBM will continue to specify IBM-branded PCs (made by Lenovo) for internal use, and they will be the recommended option for all the companies that IBM supplies.What happens later is, of course, anybody's guess. Lenovo will have the right to use IBM's name and brand names for five years, and my source - Gareth Hansford, director of IBM's UK personal computer division - says: "There's no reason why that shouldn't be renewed. But the decision has to be taken: do we have two brand names or one? There is a desire to bring the Lenovo brand into play outside China." Hansford thinks that badging machines something like "IBM by Lenovo" is a possibility.But we can be sure the Lenovo name will start to appear, for two reasons.First, it is evidently Lenovo's desire to become a global supplier, rather   than focus on the local Chinese market, so it has to establish a global brand name. It can't rely on using IBM's brand forever, because the two companies could fall out or go their different ways.Second, there are holes in the product line. Lenovo will take over IBM's desktop and portable PC businesses, but as Hansford points out, this doesn't include servers or printers, and it doesn't include any retail business. This divisional structure suited IBM, with its separate focus on corporate servers, but doesn't make sense for a company going head-to-head with Dell and Hewlett-Packard."The chance to be a stronger competitor to HP and even Acer is the bit we're very excited about," says Hansford. "It will help us to adopt a more aggressive stance and perhaps to get to other price points."Hansford points out that the current deal prevents Lenovo from selling servers outside China and Japan, but I can't see this restriction making it into the next one.The question is, will it work? Brian Gammage, vice-president and research area leader at Gartner, says: "It looks like a good deal for everybody concerned. Lenovo is strong in China and nowhere else, so the assembly of the two organisations looks to be complementary. This is not like HP and Compaq."Gammage reckons that IBM will benefit because it will remove the diluting effect of the PC company from its bottom line, and will convert lots of fixed costs (such as plants and people) into variable costs (shipments of PCs). Further, IBM won't lose the whole $12bn in revenues, because it will continue to sell and install PCs.The former IBM PC group will also benefit, "because it can now be structured to operate as a PC business, where single digit margins are a reality," says Gammage. "Also, China is one of the few PC markets with strong growth potential, so the new company will be ahead of the game."He adds: "No deal happens without some disruption, and obviously competitors are going to try to make a lot of this. But I don't see enormous risks."In fact, Gammage reckons that the spin-off will put pressure on other large companies with broad product offerings "to justify why they are keeping a PC business in house. I can see very little reason for cross-subsidising a PC business," he says.This includes HP, NEC, Sony and Toshiba, among others.Several large PC vendors have been taken over in recent years, including Packard Bell (now part of Japan's NEC), eMachines (bought by Gateway), and Compaq (merged with Hewlett-Packard). Fujitsu of Japan also combined its European PC business with Siemens, Germany's biggest computer manufacturer, and Gartner is predicting more consolidation ahead.In the past, American and European PC suppliers have often looked towards Japanese companies. In the future, they could be combining with Chinese ones.Lenovo has been the first Chinese giant to take a shortcut to the world stage, but it's a pretty safe bet that it won't be the last.
Millions of users  now find it hard  to imagine life  without the internet  - without  email, instant  messaging, web search engines and  online trading or gaming.Over the past decade since Online  was launched, it's the web that has  made the difference. It has made it  easier to access all the net's facilities,  and encouraged a huge explosion in  the number and diversity of websites.With the web still expanding, we  have taken the opportunity to ask  Online's readers, contributors, and  some of the Guardian's journalists to  suggest the 100 most useful sites.It is a sign of the vast reach of the  web that it was constricting to have  to limit coverage to 20 categories  with only five sites in each - a lot of  great sites have not made the cut.The Guardian has its own website  which now has more than 9m unique  users and delivers more than 100m  page impressions a month.We have  listed the most popular Guardian  sites, and some Online readers'  suggestions.Today, almost half (49%) of British  people now have internet access from  home. With more and more information  coming online, the benefits of  being connected can only increase,  and in the next decade, few lives will  remain untouched by the web.ActivismUsing the web to motivate and encourage action is no longer just a pipe dream. While America'sMoveOn.orgis probably the most successful example of web activism, some useful ideas are coming from British hacktivists. FaxYourMP takes the hassle out of contacting technophobic political representatives. Netaction is a rich resource for wannabe online campaigners, including The Virtual Activist, a superb manual for   anyone looking to build and promote their cause online. Those interested in helping out in their local area might try Timebank, which finds organisations to which to donate spare time. AllAboutGiving tells you about charitable donations. Greenpeace has one of the most comprehensive cyberactivist sites.www.faxyourmp.comwww.netaction.orgwww.timebank.org.ukwww.allaboutgiving.orghttp://act.greenpeace.orgArtThe Internet Movie Database is the sine qua non for anyone interested in film. Easily searchable and full of information about any movie, plot, director, actor or crew member you could think of; reliably accurate. For opera lovers, Opera Base is essential. Check future schedules of singers or directors and find details of opera houses or festivals.   The National Gallery's website is wonderful: you can search the entire collection with ease. Abe Books is the best and biggest place to look for and buy secondhand and rare books. All Music is a comprehensive database on all musical genres. Great for checking discographies and the like.http://us.imdb.comwww.operabase.comwww.nationalgallery.org.ukwww.abebooks.co.ukwww.allmusic.comBlogsTypepad has unseatedBlogger.comas our favourite personal publishing tool. Like Blogger, it will also host your site - although you have to pay - but it will let you transfer your own domain name over too. A high level of control over content and layout, plus decent default templates top it off. Statcounter shows who's visiting your site, and helps you   understand why they're there. Technorati lets you see who's linking to you. Blogdex shows what the blog community is obsessing about. Once you've mastered writing a blog, start the radio version with iPodder.org.www.typepad.comwww.statcounter.comwww.technorati.comhttp://blogdex.netwww.ipodder.orgBuying and sellingThe theory used to be that the net let you spend less time shopping, freeing you up for more interesting stuff. Now it's become clear that the net has drawn many into the shopping experience more deeply. The old cliche about Britain being a nation of shopkeepers has been given a new twist at eBay and Amazon, where thousands run their own virtual market stalls. EBay remains the most amusing place to browse. The   small sellers in Amazon's Marketplace are great for tracking down deleted/out of print items. The shopping search site Kelkoo allows you to research products, compare prices and find out if the stores are signed up with the Isis (Internet Shopping is Safe) trust mark scheme. The Apple iTunes Music Store could do with some tweaking pricewise, but it still looks like the future of music retail. For offbeat gifts and early adopter gizmos try Josh Rubin's Cool Hunting blog.www.ebay.co.ukwww.amazon.co.ukwww.kelkoo.co.ukwww.apple.com/uk/itunes/storewww.joshrubin.com/coolhunting/CommunityYou should be able to find a community for any interest, however niche, on the web - but for geek news, the best port of call is Slashdot. Orkut, a site that lets you communicate with friends of friends has replaced Friendster as the peer network du jour, but those wanting to focus on their local area might visit Craigslist, an eBay-meets-Loot which now has sites for London, Manchester, Edinburgh and Dublin. Del.icio.us is a bookmark manager that lets you store and organise your web favourites and then share the sites you browse with others, while Flickr is an online photo gallery that lets other people look at (and comment on) your pictures.www.slashdot.orgwww.orkut.comhttp://craigslist.orghttp://del.icio.uswww.flickr.comEducationUK learners can access a vast amount of superb web-based curriculum material; the best content, though, is only available on subscription. Free stuff tends to be thinner, but here are a few openly available sites worth a dip. Skoool.com is Irish, exported here by Intel; it covers a lot of ground (though has big holes), and will prove handy for pupils studying/revising at home. Nrich has a wealth of intriguing maths activities which extend and enliven the subject. National Archives (the government agency) has put together the huge and cleverly-presented Learning curve. The best new site, though shallow in content as yet, is the National Theatre's Stagework site: nice video clips to support drama. And the prize for neatest, simplest idea has to go to britkid.org, a resource for opening children's eyes to the diversity of our culture.www.skoool.comwww.nrich.maths.org.ukwww.stagework.org.ukwww.learningcurve.gov.ukwww.britkid.orgEmailHotmail is the free email service everyone knows. It's also dangerous, because Microsoft will delete all your messages if you don't log on every 30 days. However, it's an obvious choice for people who use Microsoft Messenger, MSN Spaces (Microsoft's new blogging service), and Internet Explorer, because they all work together. But if you just want web-based email, go for Yahoo. It is cleaner and faster, and you can forward email to a phone or pager. Yahoo only provides 100 megabytes of free space, whereas Hotmail provides 250MB, and Google's Gmail a gigabyte (1GB). One drawback with Gmail is that you cannot sign up: you have to be invited. My first choice is Bluebottle. It's free, it offers 250MB of storage, and as well as web access, it supports POP3 and Imap, so you can use a proper email program from copy.www.bluebottle.comhttp://mail.yahoo.comhttp://gmail.google.comwww.hotmail.comwww.walla.comGamingFor features and information about all past, current and future platforms and products, IGN is a good first stop, although the north American slant may put off the casual observer. UK gamers who want home-grown opinion should head to SPOnG. It has a great reputation among professionals and consumers for reviews, rumours and news. Slashdot Games is a good source for what's floating around the web. If you're stumped by a difficult puzzle, GameFAQs lists game player-created walkthroughs, plus links to cheats, reviews and previews. Finally, the Entertainment Software Ratings Board has a searchable list of games by age rating. It's a useful source for parents considering whether the content of a game is appropriate for their child.http://ign.comwww.spong.comhttp://games.slashdot.orghttp://gamefaqs.comwww.esrb.com/esrbratings.aspHealthThere are more websites devoted to health than to almost any other subject, but some are more reliable than others. A slightly sceptical approach is probably healthiest, but the website of the National Electronic Library for Health brings together all the latest research evidence, safety and organisational concerns. There is even a "hitting the headlines" feature, where staff at the Centre for Reviews and Dissemination at York University assess the reliability of health correspondents' reporting! The Health Protection Agency (formerly Public Health Laboratory Service) has masses of information, including all the symptoms, facts and figures you could ever want on infectious diseases, while the Food Standards Agency is commendably rapid at publishing agendas and minutes of scientific advisory committees, as well as food   safety alerts. The British Medical Journal has been unusual among medical journals in allowing free access to all articles past and present, though some limited restrictions are coming inforce from January. Avert is the website of an international Aids charity which has brilliant statistical data and explanations of the science that anyone can understand.www.nelh.nhs.ukwww.hpa.org.ukwww.food.gov.ukwww.bmj.comwww.avert.orgNewsThe BBC's strengths lie in its breadth of content. A mix of audio, video and text blurs the boundary between old and new media, while the low graphics version even works well on GPRS mobile phones. The New York Times has a huge site, and Google's news website gives old media editors sleepless nights. Headlines are scraped from around the world, with Google's computers deciding on the placement of stories. That means eccentric news selection, but lots of choice. Bomb in Baghdad? Look at coverage from Al-Jazeera to ABC, via Swissinfo and Australia's news.com.au. Ohmynews is a popular South Korean site that relies on 33,000 "citizen reporters". What they write is edited and fact-checked by professional journalists making the site an interesting hybrid between weblog and pro news site. Finally, the Scotsman's site continues to punch above its weight. Its latest addition is a premium archive search stretching back to 1817.http://news.bbc.co.ukhttp://nytimes.comhttp://news.google.co.ukhttp://ohmynews.comhttp://scotsman.comOffbeatEasily Amused is a guide to fun sites albeit a shadow of its predecessor, the Center for Easily Amused. The Weird Site is another source, but less family-friendly. Still, there's a nice web ring with links to 106 Unusual Museums of the Internet, including the Virtual Toilet Paper Museum, Kilokat's Antique Light Bulb Site, and the Burlingame Museum of Pez Memorabilia; another 106 sites are awaiting approval. For an amusing and educational browse, it's hard to beat Snopes, the Urban Legends Reference Pages. The site analyses and debunks all those false claims and hoaxes circulating on the net and elsewhere. Otherwise, for today's five minutes of fun, try browsing B3ta. This UK site sends out a weekly newsletter of cool links and runs a message board where people post amusingly manipulated pictures, some rated NSFW (Not Safe For Work).www.snopes.comwww.theweirdsite.com/Otherlinks.htmwww.b3ta.comwww.ringsurf.com/netring?ring=museum;action=listwww.easilyamused.comPhonesMobileburn is an excellent news and reviews site focusing on new and high-end devices. GSM Arena is a comprehensive site on GSM handsets, where review scores are compiled from reader votes. Yahoo has a straightforward    Wap search engine, which also provides a quick menu of selected games, logos, wallpapers, news and finance sites. WGamer is  the site for the latest mobile games. It's US-based but the reviews are more in-depth than any on the web. Japan produces some of the most advanced mobile phones, so if you want to know the features that will be available in Europe a year from now, Mobile Media Japan is the place. Finally, the cellphone section of gadget blog Engadget has news and pithy comment on the latest handsets.www.mobileburn.comwww.gsmarena.com/http://wgamer.comwap.yahoo.co.ukhttp://cellphones.engadget.com/PoliticsTony Blair's official website is a good place to start if you want to find out what the government is up to. TheyWorkForYou lets you search Hansard by MP and issue. For predictions, forget the official opinion poll sites, City forecaster Martin Baxter's is the best. Electoral Calculus illustrates what the polls mean, and to see what the blogs are saying, look at UK Poli Blogs. If you want to become active, the Google directory has the best list of campaigns, parties and pressure groups.www.number-10.gov.uk/www.theyworkforyou.com/http://electoralcalculus.co.uk/www.voidstar.com/ukpoliblog/http://directory.google.co.ukPublic servicesDirectgov is the best place to start looking for information if you don't know which organisation it comes from; which, for normal people, is most of the time. The NHS Gateway is a breakthrough in navigating the health service, and carries information on waiting times by speciality and postcode. You can report crime online at police.uk, or at least that's the theory. At the National Archives you can read the Magna Carta or find out what granddad did in the war. The parliament website is stodgy, but contains lots of information - and finally, the Inland Revenue. No, really: the tax collector is getting the hang of this web thingy.www.direct.gov.ukwww.nhs.ukwww.nationalarchives.gov.ukwww.inlandrevenue.gov.ukwww.parliament.ukRadioStreaming radio is one of the fastest-growing areas of the web. The BBC   outdoes its rivals by providing 11 stations to suit all tastes. The corporation's Radio Player gadget also allows you to listen to anything broadcast over the past week. If you're looking for new stations, you could drop by Radio-Locator or look at Live-Radio.net, which lists thousands of broadcasters around the globe. Last.fm drops tailor-made radio into your lap, and Traffic Island Disks is a downloadable radio programme which is both engaging and surprising.www.bbc.co.uk/radiohttp://radio-locator.comwww.live-radio.net/www.last.fmwww.traffic-island.co.uk/ReferenceThe web is often the quickest place to look something up - if you know where   to go. If you don't, you can always start with Jim Martindale's Reference Desk, an astonishing collection that has been 10 years in the making. Usually, however, you will probably want to look up a word, a phone number, a place or whatever. For words, try Onelook, which indexes more than 6m words in 981 dictionaries. It also has a "reverse lookup" to find words from their meanings. For longer items, the Concise Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia is online (the Britannica costs money). There are links to the world's online phone books at Teldir, which is now on the Infobel site. Finally, there are maps of just about everywhere at Multimaps.www.martindalecenter.comwww.onelook.comwww.multimaps.comwww.infobel.com/teldirwww.encyclopedia.comScienceYahoo can be worth checking two or three times a day. Eurkalert was deliberately created by the American Association for the Advancement of Science as a forum for formal science press announcements, and that, too, merits a daily visit: over the years, it has become a research resource in itself. Space.com is an impressive, eclectic place. But the best for almost a decade has been, and is still, Nasa.gov. There's plenty of government, but also a wealth of delicious arcana, including the Lunar Surface Journal, a transcript of all the conversations on the moon, annotated by the Apollo astronauts themselves.http://dir.yahoo.com/Science/news_and_media/www.eurekalert.org/http://space.com/www.palaeos.com/Timescale/www.nasa.gov/home/SearchSearch is still the jewel of the web: the ability to extract information on any subject in a fraction of a second. Search engines can now scour hard disks, news groups, images, blogs, emails and peer-to-peer sites as well as the web. Some can do nearly all of these simultaneously. Google remains king of the jungle but Yahoo - which now owns Overture, AllTheWeb and AltaVista (number one choice in the pre-Google era) - is snapping at its heels, leaving MSN Search a distant third. One of the most interesting new sites - though the consumer experience doesn't yet live up to the hype - is Blinkx. It claims to search more sources simultaneously (including hard disks, video and peer-to-peer) than anyone else, using artificial intelligence to interpret the context of what you are saying rather than Google's page rankings (PCs only until January).www.google.co.ukhttp://search.yahoo.comhttp://beta.search.msn.co.ukwww.blinkx.comwww.searchenginewatch.comSportDo you urgently need to know who's leading the Slovenian Liga? The latest results from Bulgaria? Soccerbot has more football stats than you can shake a geek at. Meanwhile, Cricinfo, the online branch of the cricketing authority Wisden, covers most aspects of the world game, and it has a searchable facts and figures database to die for. Howzat? If you want to wager online, Blue Square is your best bet, while One Mick Jones is best read if you (a) like Leeds United, (b) always wear a leather jacket bought before 1978, or (c) think Popbitch is like, so pass&#233;. At the First Church of Tiger Woods, however, "pastor" John Ziegler wonders whether Tiger Woods is God. Well, clearly not - but suspend your golfing agnosticism awhile and marvel at evidence of his divinity, the Ten Tiger Commandments, Tiger news and a kitsch screensaver. Just don't call him Eldrick.www.soccerbot.comwww.cricinfo.comwww.bluesq.comwww.onemickjones.comwww.tigerwoodsisgod.comTravelTravel Jungle does an excellent job of tracking fares by searching 23 airlines and nine travel agents simultaneously and also has a decent hotel search. If the capital's transport network were half as efficient as Transport for London's journey planner, black cabs would be out of business. It serves disabled passengers and brisk walkers equally well. Let's hope that the national public transport portal Transportdirect.info will catch up when it gets round to integrating cycling routes. In the meantime, a small team at Xephos are doing it a lot better. The downside is that they start charging once the free allocation of seven days' use or 100 hits is used up. Michelin's database, on the other hand, is still free and its maps of Europe and hotel and restaurant recommendations are unmatched on the web. Bringing up the rear is Seat61, a labour of love devoted to European rail travel.www.traveljungle.co.ukwww.viamichelin.comhttp://journeyplanner.tfl.gov.ukwww.internet.xephos.comwww.seat61.com&#183;Contributions from Sarah Boseley, Michael Cross, Tom Happold, Charlotte Higgins, Colin Hughes, Bobbie Johnson, Dan Jones, Victor Keegan, Aleks Krotoski, Neil McIntosh, Jim McClellan, James Meikle, Tim Radford, Keith Stuart, Jack Schofield and Ros Taylor100 most useful websitesGuardian websitesNews and PoliticsTwenty-four hour news and political coverage.www.guardian.co.ukhttp://politics.guardian.co.ukblogs.guardian.co.uk/newsSportIncisive, witty commentary and daily football email The Fiver .http://football.guardian.co.ukhttp://sport.guardian.co.ukArtsSites for the arts, film and books.www.guardian.co.uk/artshttp://books.guardian.co.ukhttp://film.guardian.co.uk&lt;A HREF="http://blogs.guardian.co.uk/theguide"blogs.guardian.co.uk/theguideEducationExpert coverage of the sector plus Learn.co.uk is a resource of interactive e-learning materials aimed at school-age students and teachers.http://education.guardian.co.ukwww.learn.co.ukMediaDissecting the media - from TV and radio to advertising and the internet.http://media.guardian.co.ukPublic ServicesNews and commenthttp://society.guardian.co.ukOnlinewww.guardian.co.uk/onlineblogs.guardian.co.uk/onlineblogs.guardian.co.uk/gamesReaders' favouriteswww.wikipedia.org"I needed information on Hallowe'en for one of my classes. I first went to Encarta - they had no information at all. I then went to Wikipedia: everything from food that is eaten to a detailed historical background."www.cursor.org"Political commentary monitoring US politics and foreign affairs with consistent and civilised viewpoint."www.limmy.com"Anyone from Glasgow, or with an understanding of the Glasgow sense of humour and ned culture etc should definitely check it out."www.yell.com"Very simple, fast and efficient. Never fails to deliver phone number and address, as long as you know the name and town."www.musicplasma.com"Type in the name of a band you like and it creates an inter-connected universe of other acts you might also enjoy."remogeneralstore.com"It's very slick - well designed, extremely stylish and really creates a sense of a community and loyalty."www.moimoimoi.co.uk"They do a great little range of toys that are not the usual fare."www.wearewhatwedo.org/default.aspx"A great site with really useful links and something for all the family to get involved in."www.thedvdforums.co.uk"Registration needed, but for anything film related (DVD, TV or cinema) including technology, it is excellent. Also thousands of bargains from big and little retailers - this site is pretty much the best of the web."
Ofcom have announced that they are forcing down the amount BT charges to other broadband suppliers (read it atMediaGuardian.co.uk- registration required)."Ofcom is cutting the price for final connection and rental charges for local loop unbundling services, the so called "final mile" to households and businesses.""It means companies such as Wanadoo, Blue Yonder and AOL will pay just over £34 to access the final mile from January 1, down from £88 charged now and the £50.70 price Ofcom proposed in August.""The move is designed to open up the burgeoning broadband market to competition and will ultimately mean lower prices for consumers, who typically pay between £15 and £30 a month for high-speed home internet connections."USwitch telecoms analyst Chris Williams puts the decision in clear terms:"This decision will mean customers can expect a wider choice of better, faster and more innovative services, such as video-on-demand. With suppliers like Wanadoo, NTL and Cable &amp; Wireless already pledging to invest in local loop unbundling, the future of broadband in Britain is looking more exciting and affordable than ever."
Double troubleGhost Recon 2PlayStation2, Xbox, &#163;39.99 Red Storm/Ubi Soft &#42;&#42;&#42; (PS2), &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42; (Xbox)In this, the latest futuristic warfare effort to bear the ubiquitous stamp of Tom Clancy, you play Captain Scott Mitchell, leader of shadowy American elite military unit the Ghosts. One suspects that Ghost Recon 2 will feature prominently in the stockings of American neo-cons this Christmas, as its plot (set in 2007 or thereabouts) dictates that the Ghosts have been sent to operate behind enemy lines in North Korea, as tension rises with South Korea. At least, that is the plot of the PS2 version; in the Xbox version, rogue North Korean military leaders have risen in revolt, and elite military units from around the world have been sent to quell their uprising.Inexplicably, the PS2 and Xbox versions of Ghost Recon 2 are very different games. Both are first-person shoot-'em-ups in which you either lead a squad or carry out solo missions, but the Xbox version is superior, with better graphics and a more complete control system, although, oddly, its artificial intelligence is inferior. The PS2 version of the game is spectacularly minimal.Both games are pretty hard, and require a stealthy, tactical approach, making use of all available cover and any zoom capabilities your weapons have. Both games feature guns that can fire airburst grenades and bullets that go around corners.They will both please the militarily obsessed - although not those in South Korea, which has banned the game - but the Xbox version wins,   because in the PS2 version you spend too much time squinting at far-away enemies who are about two pixels tall.Steve BoxerJourney to the starsJump to Lightspeed(requires Star Wars Galaxies) PC, &#163;19.99 LucasArts/Activision&#42;&#42;&#42;Star Wars Galaxies, the massively multiplayer role playing game (MMORPG), was released in 2003 with one major omission: it was ground-based only. Now with Jump to Lightspeed, the first expansion pack for the game, players can take their characters to the stars. Once installed, players choose their allegiance - Imperial, Rebel or neutral - and then begin the long flight into space.Initially, the action is basic. Your ship is poorly equipped and the combat is a mildly tedious case of following a crosshair around the screen. Gain some experience and buy a better craft and things get far more enjoyable. Strategy and tactics come into play and the action begins to resemble a flight sim more than an MMORPG. And this is key.On the ground your character's skill in combat is determined by your stats; in the stars it is up to you to manoeuvre and fire. Unfortunately, the problems of the main game remain, namely that it takes a lot of repetitive action to get anywhere.Greg HowsonHobbit heroicsLord of the Rings: Battle for Middle EarthPC, &#163;34.99 Electronic Arts&#42;&#42;&#42;A full year after the film trilogy ended, EA has had plenty of time to polish this to near perfection. Shame then that what we get is little more than "Now that's what I call Middle Earth!", all your favourite Hobbit heroics from the movies, but not as well done.First impressions are promising: a classy intro and an imaginative (if over-large) interface that shows snippets from the movie as you play. But the game quickly breaks down into two types of level: ones with the Fellowship running around replaying set-pieces from the movie (ie: slaying the Balrog), and the real time strategy where you get to control and build your own forces, choosing first to play as either Rohan or Mordor. These levels are entertaining, though the way the units are balanced makes for frenetic but repetitive combat.The Fellowship levels are worse, condensing great movie moments into meaningless click-a-thons.All in all, this is a B-list game saved by A-list production values and scripted highlights which admittedly look fantastic. Oh... and it's the only game where you click your mouse and Sir Ian McKellan shouts "None shall pass": almost worth the asking price on its own.Mike Anderiesz
The biggest news story in the UK at the moment is the resignation of home secretaryDavid Blunkett(since his biographer,Stephen Pollardkeeps a blog, one wonders if some of the pro-blogging blowhards are going to claim this as another victory for the blogosphere).On face value, Blunkie's departure might not seem to have a huge impact on the government's approach to IT - but it does. Since education secretary Charles Clarke has moved over to the Home Office, Cabinet Office minister Ruth Kelly has stepped in to fill his shoes. And guess what? The Cabinet Office is the home of e-government. It seems the jinx surrounding the post of minister for e-government has claimed its latest victim.Our e-government guru Michael Cross was listening to Kelly speak yesterday when the wheels started moving..."After weeks of grooming, Kelly made her first speech on e-government yesterday at a seminar organised by the Insitute for Public Policy Research."No sooner had the brainy former Guardian hack finished her thoughtful talk than she was whisked away to an urgent meeting. Uncharitably, everyone thought she was dodging questions - only later did it emerge that was being offered a Cabinet seat."Kelly's move is a loss because her short time in the post was a breath of fresh air. Her predecessor, Douglas Alexander, took no obvious interest in e-government and famously did not get on with his e-envoy, Andrew Pinder. David Miliband, who presumably takes over the unpopular portfolio, may find more in common with Pinder's replacement, Ian Watmore... both are Arsenal fanatics."
Our last edition of the Guardian's weekly Online print supplement is dedicated to100 of the most useful websites.We asked our readers, contributors and some of the Guardian's top journalists to tell us what they thought were some of the web's best sites... the results should be ready to go straight into your bookmarks.We also finish off our series of best buys for Christmas with a look atgadgets you should open your wallet for.Meanwhile, Jack Schofield takes a look at recent Chinese developments in the world of technology (bothIBMandPalmSource) and Ken Young examines developments atthe British Library, while Michael Cross reveals the truth behind the government's decision toe-government targets.For commentary, Dave Birchcompares eBay to the early stock marketsand Michael Cross wonders if online public services arelot like lunchtime drinking.Of course, there are the regulars includingTalk time (this week it's DJ David Morales),Games Watch,Ask Jack,FeedbackandIT News.We won't be publishing another print edition of Online until January 6, but rest assured we'll still be updating the website with all the latest news.
Brain powerJim McClellan's article on e-commerce (Power spending, December 9) should have mentionedwww.bookbrain.co.uk, which is a wonderful site for those seeking the cheapest book price. On feeding in just part of the title of the book, the site lists the relevant internet booksellers in order of price - including postage, lowest first, and estimates the despatch time. Just click on the bookseller of your choice, and you're away!Jim DockingSurreyiPod biasBobbie Johnson's review of MP3 players (Play it Again, Sam, December 9) was a disappointing and badly researched promotion of the iPod. His very unimaginative eulogy to the iPod does not cover many of its failings, or the many more features offered by other players. It is precisely because alternative players have a richer set of features that iRiver and Rio players come out better than the iPod in reviews and ratings in the technology press.Just because a player has a large market share does not mean it is the only, or even the best, one. What's next? A review of web browsers saying that Microsoft's Internet Explorer is the only one to choose?Martin CowardShoreham-by-SeaWhat about iRiver?I am surprised that the iRiver iHP-140 didn't even get a mention in your article about Christmas MP3 players.   It's feature-packed: 40GB, plays/records every file format (MPeg 1/2/2.5 Layer 3, Ogg Vorbis, WMA, ASF, WAV) and unlike many others, comes with an FM tuner, and is the only brand to offer high-quality recording using internal/external mic, line in/out, optical in/out and lots, lots more. The recording quality is excellent, file conversion is easy, and sharing with a PC or Mac dead easy. The downsides are a mediocre screen display and finicky controls that take time to learn, but that shouldn't disqualify it from a mention.Michael GearyBathNo regretsI was disappointed to see that you did not include the iRiver H series in your top 10 MP3 players. Around a year ago, I researched extensively before purchasing my hard drive-based MP3 player. I ended up opting for the iRiver H120. This is an outstanding piece of equipment, very simple to use, twice the battery life of an iPod and with features such as optical in/out, built-in microphone for voice recording, FM radio, and upgradeable firmware. The iRiver is probably one of the wisest purchases I have made, it has recently been updated by the H300 series, which has a colour screen.James CameronLondonMoney solutionLike Tony Gretton and other Firefox users (Feedback, passim) I have found difficulty using the Egg online Money manager to access accounts other than the Egg credit card. Rather than abandon Firefox, I've taken advantage of one of their extensions (available from Firefox's Tools menu) called ieview. This adds the option to open a link (such as Egg's Money Manager) in IE. Once finished, just close IE. Not exactly ideal, but at least a partial solution.Mike RodenLondonManx MacsThe Manx government might have been daft enough to go for a 100% Microsoft "solution" (Feedback, December 9), but it had the sense to base IT training on Apple Macs in all its schools - and to have a level of IT funding for each pupil which is about six times the average for the UK.Our Education department's computer bus, Destination - the Future, has proved an international success.Brian StowellDouglas, Isle of ManDrive timeWhile I use a USB drive for moving documents around, particularly between laptop and desktop computers, I was not aware of the range of data and software that can now be stored on USB drives (You can take it with you, December 2).It will be interesting to see if some of what is discussed here becomes commonplace.lecornu.blogspot.comI, Gadget"Designers of devices such as the Palm Pilot may view them as computational devices to help people better manage their lives: users see them as extensions of self," says Sherry Turkle in Talk time (December 9). At last somebody said it out loud. Mobile devices are not just "gadgets for freaks" but essential parts of ourselves.blogs.msmobiles.com/cellphonefan/
OK, so my hand has beenslappedby various unhappy readers who take offence at the gamesblog's lack ofindie games coverage.However, to appease you and to inform folks in general about the latest from the big kahuna of independent games festivals, the finalists have beenannouncedfor the IGF. There are 20 in all, none of whom have had funding from any biz or org. Oh the digital places we'll go!Gamesblog is particularly taken withGish, a rag tag which cost only $5K and took a mere 8 months to make (about the same amount of time that Argonaut was given by EA to developCatwoman. Unfair). Download ithere.Although most of the finalists hail from North America (a truly depressing fact),Legion Arenareprazents the UK. Go the boys from Epsom!
Want to get a good grasp of the issues currently surrounding mobile gaming?Here'sa thorough interview with games designer Greg Costikyan who argues that providing seamless multiplayer experiences is the only way forward for the industry. He identifies some key problems, though, including the intrinsic limits of platforms like Java and BREW, the reluctance of gamers to make data connections while playing (because they're never sure how much it's going to cost), and network latency.Beware, the interview contains the following phrase:"If I'm looking up restaurant listings on my phone, I want to be able to chat with my sweetie at the same time..."Sweetie?!
CNET News.com has posted aninteresting articlelooking into how publishers of multplayer online games are dealing with 'griefers' - those anti-social morons who beat up 'newbies' and generally try to disrupt things for everything else. It seems that companies are now turning to a mix of psychological warfare and crippling peer pressure. Sounds like my school days.
Your thoughts on the download revolution?It's good and bad. When they learn to police it better it will be great. People make their money writing songs and by downloading music free you're preventing them getting their royalties. Everybody loves something for free and that's OK, so long as the people providing the music are willing to give it for free. The upside of downloading is that I love being able to shop for records without having to leave the house.How do you feel the record industry responded to downloading?It just   wasn't ready. Now it's frantically seeing how it can get a hold on it all. There are people developing software to help the record companies collect royalties from downloads because they simply didn't have the technology to do it in-house.Ringtone charts?Some people are writing specifically for ringtones, as they know kids now change their ringtones every day. Along with picture messaging, I think it's another way for phone companies to make money from us - it's cheaper to text than call someone but it still costs you money.Do you follow the trend towards having a Macintosh running your studio system?It's always been Mac. My office is PC-based but I'm a Mac guy all the way. I run Pro-Tools in the studio so it's got to be Mac to run it on. But I use analogue two-inch tape as well as the computer. I think analogue   always sounds better than digital although Pro-Tools has just made certain aspects of the recording process much easier and less time-consuming.Are music programs such as Pro-Tools quite intuitive to learn?Not for me, as I like to create and not have to get too involved in constantly watching the screen, which is what it becomes. I'd rather leave that to my engineer or programmer who likes to do that. Obviously I have a basic knowledge of the software but I'm not as gung-ho as some about needing to know every feature of it. I've spent most of my life working at an SSL mixing-desk so it's now a case of finding my way around Pro-Tools and applying myself to learn what I need from it.Have you got yourself a G5 yet?No, I'm still on a G4 - it's mandatory to keep upgrading so I am looking to get a   G5 at some point. I'm not a computer freak, though, as I still use my laptop mainly for email and other bits and pieces. My kid makes me look bad on a computer - he's my supercomputer! Besides Pro-Tools, the only other software I use a lot is Adobe Creative Suite, Excel and Entourage. I do use my laptop for watching a lot of DVDs, too.&#183;Visit:www.defmix.comwww.adobe.comwww.protools.comwww.apple.comwww.vertu.com/flash/
Time Warner agreed to pay $210m (&#163;108m) yesterday to settle criminal fraud charges related to its internet service provider America Online.The media conglomerate was also expected to pay another $300m to settle similar allegations from the chief financial watchdog in the United States, the securities and exchange commission.Under the terms of the settlement with the US justice department, charges of aiding and abetting fraud will be deferred for two years provided the company continues to cooperate in an investigation into how certain advertising deals at AOL were structured.The investigation is one of the last hangovers of the disastrous merger of AOL and Time Warner that was completed in January 2001. The justice department settlement relates to advertising deals with several smaller companies around that time that allegedly allowed AOL to exaggerate its profits.The parallel SEC inquiry has centred on the way that AOL accounted for a $400m payment from the German media group Bertelsmann, and whether the cash was improperly used to make the company's profits look better.Time Warner is eager to get the affair behind it. The investigations have restricted its ability to do any deals that would require issuing new shares in the company.However, it is not yet entirely in the clear. It is still facing a shareholder lawsuit related to the investigations, which alleges that Time Warner misrepresented advertising sales by $1.7bn between 1999 and July 2002.
Alex, Wendy, Dirk and Kyle Komarnitsky would like you to help them with their Christmas decorations. Or more precisely, the family in Lafayette, Colorado, want you to turn on and off the 17,000 Christmas lights strewn across their house,  writes Dan Glaister in Los Angeles .To date, almost 36,845 people have helped the   Komarnitskys. But none of them has gone to Lafayette to do it. Instead, a visit to the family's website -www.komar.org- allows internet users to manipulate a webcam and, with the click of a mouse, to turn the Christmas lights on and off.But there are rules: the lights and webcam only work from 7pm to 10pm, and each user can only change the lights three times within a five-minute slot. "I'm concerned about the Christmas webcam being (ab)used too much and the blinking lights bothering the neighbours!" writes Alex Komarnitsky on the website.
Time was when keeping up with the hi-tech Joneses meant carrying a bag laden with the latest PDA, phone, music player, voice recorder, camera and GPS satellite navigation system.Fortunately, as 2005 beckons, the mobile industry seems to have spared gadget lovers' potential hernias by integrating most of those facilities into smartphones. Yet, in spite of the mobile's emergence as the decade's uber-gadget, sales of other electronic goodies are at an all time high - largely thanks to older technologies being replaced by shiny new ones.Tipped to be the first casualty of next year is the VHS video recorder. Even though you can't buy one in Dixons, the retailer, along with everyone else in the consumer electronics industry, is not sure what you should buy in its place. Sales of both DVD and hard disk-based video recorders started to rocket in 2004, and it is likely that the pair will be battling for that space under your TV by the end of the year. For our money, the best bet could be a combi recorder that has both a hard disk and DVD on board, yet these are too expensive to warrant a recommendation just yet. Instead, we are sticking with the &#163;400 Sky+ 160 (160GB) digital satellite receiver/hard disk video recorder - perhaps the most intuitive video recorder ever devised.Handheld hard disk-based personal video players, which boast large storage capacities and three- to four-inch screens, began to edge towards the mainstream in 2004. Microsoft-powered models like the Creative Zen are hamstrung by    their incompatibility with certain key file formats, so arguably the best model on sale is the &#163;350 Archos AV440, a striking, superbly built audio/video player with a 40GB hard disk.It was a splendid year for robots, with three very different models all making our top 10. Easily the smartest is Sony's &#163;1,200 Aibo robot hound, which can stream audio wirelessly from a PC's hard disk along with barking out reminders of appointments ... as well as chase balls and play dead. Almost as clever is the latest incarnation of the Roomba (&#163;180), the budget robot vacuum cleaner that has taken the US by storm. Its makers have improved its power and performance and one day they may even work out how to get it to vacuum stairs. With an armoury of kung-fu kicks, the &#163;90 Robosapien looks as if it could become the most popular robot since the must-have of a few years back: the Furby.In spite of some fierce competition from one- and now two-megapixel cameraphones, sales of digital cameras in 2004 have remained healthy, especially in the four to five megapixel compact and digital SLR sectors. Our pick of the compact bunch is the Sony &#163;400 DSC-T3, a superb five megapixel camera with a 6.3cm screen. For digital SLRs, it will be hard to look beyond Canon's 16 megapixel EOS-1Ds mark II when it is launched soon.Another key technology whose time appears to have arrived is DAB or digital radio. Of the models released in 2004, the &#163;150 Bug has an interesting retro design and some neat features such as the option of pausing a transmission.Perhaps best value of all is the &#163;50 digital radio adaptor from Dixons, which plugs into any hi-fi to add those extra stations.Just about every consumer electronics maker seems to sell a set-top box that works wirelessly with a PC to stream audio, image and video files to a home entertainment system. Few, though, are as elegant or as simple to use as the &#163;300 Philips SL300i. Apple's superb &#163;100 Airport Express is the best budget device if you use iTunes.Many manufacturers have also begun to realise that women love gadgets, too. However, this has meant that 2004 has been a record year for pink gadgets colouring everything from digital radios to USB memory sticks. More female buyers have at least meant that there are some striking laptop and gadget bags reaching the market. Those looking for classy notebook PC holders should investigate the range from Knomo (www.knomo.co.uk), while those looking for something more casual should check out Crumpler (www.crumpler.co.uk).The year has also had its fair share of bizarre, some might say completely barking, gizmos. Disruptive Technology deserve bravery points for starting to market a solar-powered iPod recharger in the UK - in the middle of December (www.disruptivegroup.com/products/solio/). Maybe they would have been better off opting for the USB-powered drumming Santa (www.iwantoneofthose.com), or the Lav-nav loo light (www.gadget.co.uk) which glows green when the toilet lid is down. But then again...Top 10 gadgets1 Sky+ 160www.sky.com2 Sony DSC-T3www.sony.co.uk3 Roombawww.vipdomotec.co.uk4 Apple Airport Expresswww.apple.com/uk5 Archos AV440www.archos.com6 Sony AIBO ERS-7M2www.sony.co.uk7 Philips SL300iwww.philips.co.uk8 Dixons Digital Radio Adaptorwww.dixons.co.uk9 Robosapienwww.boysstuff.co.ukwww.amazon.co.uk10 Knomo Cholet women's laptop bagwww.knomo.co.uk
DVD futuresIn the New Year I intend to purchase a DVD recorder. My preference would be a hard disk model. Should I be concerned about the competition between Toshiba and its allies and Sony Blu-ray over future formats?Brian BullardJack Schofield replies:No. It will be several years before either HD-DVD or Blu-ray devices are widely available at consumer-friendly prices and there is a big enough selection of pre-recorded movies to make these formats compelling. (In Japan, early Blu-ray machines cost about $2,700 - &#163;1,403 - each.) Also, both formats promise to be backwards-compatible, so they will play your existing recordings. Even if the two new formats have to fight it out in the marketplace, it probably won't be more confusing than the current mess, which includes DVD-Video, DVD-R/RW, DVD+R/RW, and DVD-RAM, as well as DVD-Audio and SACD (Super Audio CD).MP3 solutionI have a music collection of about 900 songs coming in at about 3.5GB on my Windows 98 PC. I was wondering what MP3 player you could suggest. In an ideal world, something around &#163;100 that can hold all 900 songs would be perfect!Daniel RundleJS:Amazingly enough, you can do it for a quarter of the price. All you have to do is move your MP3 files to   CD: they should fit on five CD-R discs costing &#163;1. You can play them on a portable CD/MP3 player such as the Proline DM1945MP3, which currently costs &#163;19.99 atComet.co.uk, though your budget could stretch to a lighter, snazzier model. Yes, I know, you "need" a hard disk-based MP3 player with 4GB of storage. The closest I can see at the moment is the 2GB Philips HDD070 Micro Audio Jukebox, which costs &#163;128 fromAmazon.co.ukor Comet. However, you could get a 4GB Creative Muvo 2 for only &#163;139, which looks like a better deal. If you can't increase your budget, you could wait for next Christmas, when HD players will be under &#163;100. But by that time you will have 1,800 songs.Wiki startI would like to include a simple Wiki on my otherwise static website. Ideally, each page would include a pull-down menu giving users the option to view the static page in one frame, and its corresponding Wiki page(s) in another.Tom RobertsJS:You could try to duplicate your static pages on a Wiki farm - a site that hosts Wiki pages free or charges a small fee for extra facilities - and provide a link from each page of your website to its Wiki counterpart. There is a guide to Wiki farms athttp://c2.com/cgi/wiki?WikiFarms. Readers may have better ideas...HijackedCould you give me any advice on getting rid of this start page (http://start-page.info/)?Peter Haydn-SmithJS:This is an example of the complex and regrettably common browser hijacker known as Cool Web Search, which comes in about 40 varieties. The best way to deal with it is Merijn's free program, CWShredder: seewww.spywareinfo.com/~merijn/downloads.htmlfor information.In October, the program was bought by Intermute for inclusion in SpySubstract Pro, and you can now get the free version fromwww.intermute.com/spysubtract/cwshredder_download.htmlIf CWShredder closes after opening, you need to run PepiMK's CoolWWWSearch.SmartKiller removal tool, available from Merijn, first.For further information, seewww.spywareinfo.com/~merijn/cwschronicles.htmlandwww.doxdesk.com/parasite/CoolWebSearch.htmlBackchat&#183;Last week, Ray Devaney asked about a DAB radio with a built-in MP3 player, and I suggested the Perstel DR201 as being available. Kev Swindells suggests the Perstel DR-301. This offers "live pause (one minute) and SD card playback, which means you could take a number of cards with you to carry multiple albums around", he says. "Unfortunately no retailers seem to have stock at present, but information is available atwww.perstel.co.uk/productsnew.html#dr301."&#183;Continuing the saga about static and dynamic IP addresses, Thomas Graham said last week that "most DNS servers are not updated enough to be 'dynamic' - it can take up to 24 hours to change an IP". Ceri Hopkins adds: "This all depends on a feature of a DNS record or of a whole domain known as its 'time to live' (TTL). Providers of a dynamic DNS service will make the 'time to live' of records sufficiently short that DNS servers cannot cache old data. For example, dyndns.org has records with a TTL of 60 seconds, and changes are almost instantaneous."&#183;This is the last Online for 2004, and Ask Jack is now taking a holiday until January 14, 2005.
In a refreshing display of maturity, the government this week abandoned the fiction that it will put every single public service online by the end of next year. The Cabinet Office announced that, for reasons of policy, 26 government functions - 4% of the theoretical total - would continue to depend on pieces of paper and personal visits.The admission, in the Cabinet Office's autumn performance report, removes a rod from the back of chief information officer Ian Watmore.Although everyone working in e-government knew that the 100% goal was nonsense, it was the prime minister's target and had to be obeyed, even to the extent of "e-enabling" obscure procedures such as permission to be buried at sea.Watmore told the Guardian this week that he could not remember exactly which of government's 657 services had been dropped from the 2005 target. However, they include procedures where officials need to scrutinise original documents, in applying for new passports for example. Other exemptions are to cope with the need to phase in new systems gradually "to mitigate project risk".Others have been subsumed into separate initiatives, such as the NHS IT programme, which has its own deadlines, mainly around 2008. Still others are awaiting policy changes such as reforming the common agricultural policy. E-enabling services ahead of reforms would require "disproportionate effort for minimal gain", the Cabinet Office said.While the change in target removes one worry, Watmore's e-government unit faces a busy year. Today, 75% of government services are available electronically, but the 130-odd that are left tend to be the awkward ones. Many involve connecting separate databases, or the applicant having to prove his or her identity.The good news is that, after a slow start, Britons seem to be taking to e-government, especially for business processes. Nearly 80% of vehicle registrations are now electronic, as are 67% of company incorporations.The Cabinet Office also claims that its new government portal (www.direct.gov.uk) has been a success.However, its traffic - 600,000 unique visitors a month - is still lower than major portals such as the BBC (and the Guardian). For the future, beyond 2005, Watmore set out four priorities:&#183;To create more "citizen-centric" government by connecting more organisations to the Directgov site. This will include local councils, which run most public services.&#183;Encourage more citizens to do business with government over the web.&#183;Set up ways for private firms and voluntary agencies to act on behalf of government on the web.&#183;Use IT to help public servants do a better job. One example is the system of electronic health records being created for the NHS, Watmore said.In his role as head of the IT profession within government, Watmore has recruited a "council of chief information officers" from across the public sector. The council, which will include a representative of local government, will meet for the first time next month. Watmore can expect a robust debate on the national identity card and the government's efficiency review. He declined the Guardian's offer to send a reporter to the event.One issue that Watmore hoped would not be on his agenda resurfaced last week: the digital divide. Watmore's predecessor, Andrew Pinder, announced a year ago that the government had achieved its aim of providing internet access for all. Although only about half of adults have their own internet connections, nearly everyone knows that they can get online in a nearby library or community centre.Last week, however, BT issued a warning that the digital divide could be with us for decades to come. It published a study suggesting that, in 2025, some 23 million people will be "at risk of digital exclusion". In an age of electronic public services, digital exclusion will be much more unpleasant than it is for the 24 million adults who are regarded as excluded today.The study, by the Future Foundation, defines digital exclusion as not having internet access at home. Paul Flatters, the foundation's chief executive, said this is a proxy measure: it is impossible to predict what the definition will be in 20 years' time. However, he was confident that, without action, the kind of people who are not engaging with the internet today will not be engaging in 2025. The   research, based on a long-term study of 5,000 households, criticises two comforting predictions about the divide. One is that digital exclusion is just another term for poverty, the other is that the problem will wither away as generations that are uncomfortable with computers die off.The main barrier is not access but   motivation, Flatters said. Internet users living below the poverty line tend to be much better educated than non-internet users.Flatters called for efforts to be made to market the internet, and for continued promotional projects such as the industry-sponsored EverybodyOnline. "Intervention can work," he said.
To mark the season of goodwill, I've been stimulating the local economy, paying large sums to the national exchequer and providing much needed employment to young Australians in London. Yes, I've spent the past week in the pub.My lifestyle choice follows an authoritative benefits-identification study, which I commissioned from a local brewery. Of course the study identified downsides, too - to my liver, my family life and to my nose when, after seven pints, I engage strangers in conversations about Iraq. However, such "key risks" can be consigned to the small print.As a piece of research, my study has all the validity of a North Korean opinion poll. I'm in good   company, though. The methodology, which I'll call AlotBsol (always look on the bright side of life), is borrowed from the government's exercise in demonstrating the benefits of e-delivery of public services."Authoritative studies" published last week by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister show that English councils could gain &#163;1.7bn a year if they put in place ideas and systems developed by six centrally-funded e-government projects.What they won't do is put &#163;1.7bn in taxpayers' pockets. Of that sum, only &#163;56m will be hard cash from increased revenues: e-savvy councils are better at collecting taxes and service fees. Of the rest, &#163;306m will be cost savings, for example in making field workers more productive by giving them handheld computers. It is up to councils whether   they use these improvements to do more with the same staff or to "realise" the savings by cutting jobs.To date, most have chosen the non-confrontational option.The vast bulk of the gains identified, &#163;1.34bn, are more in the category of AlotBsol. They include such outcomes as more satisfied citizens, better staff morale, higher take-up of state benefits and even "transparency of process". All good things. Satisfied citizens are more likely to report an abandoned car before it is torched; happy staff are less likely to go sick. Encouraging people to claim benefits means that more money goes into the local economy, even if it's only the pub. The difficult bit is how to turn these external rewards into an internal business case for buying IT.This is the bane of all e-government programmes. Unless you're dealing ruthlessly with a basket case of an agency, the internal business case doesn't add up, so hardly anyone bothers writing one.The local government national projects team, which commissioned the studies, deserves credit for trying. If the result is to encourage more councils to take up its products and processes rather than trying to re-invent them 300 times, the effort will be worthwhile.Most authorities, however, will continue to invest in e-government for the reasons they have always done. Either because they are told to, or as an act of faith that the outcome will be worth the expense and risk up front. A bit like lunchtime drinking, really.www.localegovnp.org.uk/benefits
The British Library is a huge national resource. Where else can you find 150m items, collected over 250 years, covering every age of written civilisation and seemingly every aspect of human thought? Or a collection ranging from books and manuscripts, journals and newspapers, prints and drawings, scores, stamps, patents and all manner of audio material. Not to mention "treasures" such as the oldest dated printed book, the Diamond Sutra, or the beautifully crafted Lindisfarne Gospels.The library is based at three sites: St Pancras, London; Boston Spa, Yorkshire; and Colindale, north London (home of the newspaper collection). Each year, 2,300 staff handle half a million reading room visits and supply 4m documents. This year, the library clocked up its 150,000th reader registration.But the British Library has to perform a fine balancing act. It has the UK's largest collection of journals and periodicals, yet has to observe strict rules of copyright that define the way it allows the public, educational institutions and private firms to access that resource. And, like the BBC, it has to balance its public remit with the need to generate revenue. In particular, that relates to revenue from its document supply service, which is used predominantly by academics and corporates.At the heart of its existence is the decision on what is the best technology for it to compete effectively with more commercially focused services while adhering to copyright law. Fairly simple when the library was photocopying material and sending it out by fax and post, but in an age where the original material may be in digital form and most of the readers want documents emailed, it is a much taller order.The library has to use technology to speed up the search and delivery of its services, yet ensure that whatever it sends out cannot be sent on to a third party.The research services are centred on the reading rooms at St Pancras and the document supply service at Boston Spa, which effectively provides remote access to a continually updated repository of journals and publications. Typically, a request leads to a search for a particular document that is then sent out. With a fall in the numbers using the service between 1998 and 2003, highlighted in a recent National Audit Office report, new services are seen as vital to stemming decline.A recent innovation has been to digitise the process of reproduction   and delivery through what is called the Secure Electronic Delivery Service (Seds). This meant replacing 80 photocopiers with 10 scanners. When a document is located, it is scanned and emailed directly to the subscriber. However, the system's security means the document can be printed just once.Seds cost &#163;2m and is the result of collaboration with document delivery service Relais International, Adobe and Elsevier. It gives customers fast access to more than 100m items."This is all about making back-end services more efficient while still observing copyright restrictions," says Mat Pfleger, head of sales at the library. "For example, we can scan a document, but we cannot store that data."The library does, however, maintain a database covering the 20,000 most influential research journals, down to article level and some to abstract level. This can be searched by subscribers and can provide email alerts so that once a customer's inter ests are logged in the system, that customer is made aware of relevant articles as they arrive.Critics say the library is facing a struggle in an increasingly competitive market for research services, and Pfleger recognises this: "Providing the best services is a real challenge," he says. "It's as much a case of deciding what to prioritise. Our main focus is on science, technology and medicine because there is a big demand there."But early next year, the library will launch a web portal that pulls together services. This should make it easier for the 20,000 subscribers to find what they want. It will initially be aimed at small- to medium-sized businesses. It will be developed with partners as a full-blown workflow and research tool aimed at medium to large companies, and will include full searching of titles and abstracts."The key is ease of use. We are living in the age of Amazon and eBay. Our service has to be as easy as they are to use. We are a public body so it's not so much about profit as about recovering   the cost of creating the service and justifying the investment," says Pfleger.Steve Heggie, project manager of the World Cancer Research Fund, is using the service to do a trawl through research relating food nutrition and physical activity to risks of developing cancer. This involves requesting around 20,000 papers worldwide. "This is about speed of delivery," he says. "With the secure electronic delivery system, we are able to get a much faster turnaround. A request that might have taken a few days is now usually completed within 24 hours." But he agrees that the control on copying can be a problem: "You cannot save the document, you can only print it out and read it. We then decide if it is pertinent to our research. If it is, we consider getting the original from the publishers."Ingenta, an information service provider that competes with and   works with the British Library, says it has been looking at a similar service. A spokesperson says: "The British Library service is good but it still needs to work on improving the ease of use."One quirk of the new system is that although documents are scanned for dispatch through Seds, it is not possible to store the scans if the document is requested again.Furthermore, the library is in the middle of the debate about making science publications free - the open source model applied to academic work. On the one hand, it relies on good relationships with publishers to ensure its work as a public repository continues; on the other, its commercial aspirations are restrained by the need to observe copyright law.Pure commercial providers can more actively help publishers shift their publications into electronic form or on to the web with RSS feeds (code that automatically sends new content to subscribers). Ingenta, for example, provides services for publishers to put research on Ingenta's portal or builds a portal for the publisher. This means publishers can develop a variety of ways of reselling research."The move towards open source will make a difference," says Heggie. "Services such as Seds are expensive and we have problems with copyright. Patients give their data free to researchers but at the end patients and researchers have to pay to see the research. I am in favour of open access."Naturally, the library is seeking to protect an important revenue source, and the recent House of Commons scientific committee report, Scientific Publications - free for all?, recommended the government protect the library's document delivery service.The library's chief executive, Lynne Brindley, recently stated that "while we have been hugely successful in re-engineering the operation we still have challenges. Our service, for instance, is more comprehensive than others, and that has cost implications."Meanwhile, work continues in making the library more accessible, and digitising some of the national treasures so they are available via the website under what it calls Turning the Pages.A Wi-Fi network is the latest innovation. Last month, the St Pancras library unveiled a network making it possible for visitors to connect laptops to the internet from any of the public spaces in the building. As a result it has become the largest Wi-Fi location in central London.It is hoped Wi-Fi will significantly increase use of the library's fast-growing website (www.bl.uk), which has effectively become a virtual library in its own right.
MS Desktop SearchMicrosoft's MSN division has released a US English test version of MSN Toolbar Suite, its desktop search system for Windows XP and 2000. The suite adds toolbars to Internet Explorer and Microsoft's Outlook email and personal information program, and lets users add a deskbar to the Windows TaskBar. You can type a word or phrase into the deskbar then choose to search either Desktop Items or Web Items. The MSN system also searches Outlook email, calendars, contacts, notes and, unlike Google's Desktop Search, PDF files. The IE toolbar also offers links to Hotmail, MSN Messenger, MSN Spaces (blogs) and My MSN. Ask Jeeves is also expected to announce a desktop search system this week, while Yahoo is planning to offer a free version of the commercial X1 desktop search program.http://toolbar.msn.com/Pic alertOffice Christmas parties could end in tears thanks to the growth of camera phones. These threaten to replace photocopiers as the source of embarrassing party images, and emailing them to corporate desktop PCs could create a new kind of hangover. A survey by PixAlert and the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development shows that 70% of organisations have disciplined staff for circulating inappropriate images. Party snappers could fall foul of company policies or cause offence by circulating candid images of their colleagues. PixAlert says many companies have yet to check their policies in the light of their exposure to criminal and civil claims as new devices such as camera phones become available.www.pixalert.com/survey/Pixalert_CIPDsurveyfinal.docOracle prevailsPeopleSoft is to be acquired by Oracle for $10.3bn (&#163;5.4bn) following a protracted battle. The past 18 months has seen the suit resisted by PeopleSoft's board, Oracle making appearances before monopolies and merger hearings, poison pill anti-takeover measures, and board-level resignations. The sale is now acceptable to the recently reshaped board at PeopleSoft,   and the deal is expected to go through next month. Oracle will then decide how to integrate PeopleSoft's software, and the JD Edwards products that it acquired shortly after Oracle started its predatory moves. PeopleSoft is advising its shareholders to tender their shares to Oracle by December 28.www.oracle.com/corporate/press/2004_dec/acquisition.htmlE-gov gainsHewlett-Packard and Fujitsu are each celebrating successes with long-term e-government contracts. Walsall metropolitan borough council is planning a joint venture with Fujitsu Services worth &#163;650m. The council's 12-year Putting the Citizen First project will enable anyone to pose any number of questions by internet or email and have them all answered by one council employee assigned to their query. HP will be working with the London Borough of Newham for the next decade to provide and support a Microsoft Windows and Exchange 2003 infrastructure. This &#163;27m project will migrate Newham from its current IBM legacy system to HP ProLiant blade servers.http://uk.fujitsu.com/news/newsarchive/2004/12/021204aChange partnersThe future of the SuSE Linux Open Exchange (Slox) server is looking positive following Novell confirming support for the email, calendaring and workgroup software. Slox, developed by Netline, was sold through SuSE before Novell acquired the German Linux vendor in January. There were fears that Novell's GroupWise program would supplant the product when Netline released it as the open source Open-Xchange in February. Under the new partnership, Novell will sell Open-Xchange under Netline's branding into smaller accounts of up to 2,000 employees, and sell GroupWise to larger accounts. The partnership allows Netline to increase its market share by selling through other partners, such as Red Hat, the company says.http://mirror.open-xchange.org/ox/EN/news/news_detail2526.htmOrganic growthSeiko Epson hopes to release monitors and televisions using Organic Light Emitting Diode (OLED) technology in 2007. OLED screens pass electric current through organic films to produce bright screen displays (electrophosphorescence). The main obstacle is that current screens only last for 2,000 hours, and the company has set a target of 10,000 hours to provide an estimated six-year lifespan. Seiko Epson's 200 engineers aim to increase the longevity of OLEDs to 5,000 hours by next year, and double this before 2007. OLED screens are expected to undercut current LCD prices because they will be cheaper to produce and do not require a backlight or filters.www.wave-report.com/tutorials/oled.htm
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say soPress releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
The first modern stock market began in  Amsterdam in the 17th  century. One of the  interesting lessons  from that time is that  the courts had no mechanism for  dealing with the transactions that  were undertaken (some transactions  were actually prohibited).  Yet the market grew and, as a fascinating  paper by Edward Stringham  in The Quarterly Review of  Economics and Finance discusses,  allowed the traders to experiment  and devise new instruments.This market worked, in the effective  absence of regulation, because  contracts were self-enforcing with  the group, and the means of  enforcement was reputation. As  Adam Smith noted later that century,  "when a person makes 20 contracts  in a day, he cannot gain much by endeavouring to impose  on his neighbours, as the very  appearance of a cheat would make  him lose". As is the case with eBay  today, a trader's reputation was the  basis of their earning power and a  low-overhead enforcement mechanism  for the community.Of course, as communities grow  it is difficult to maintain such a  system. Eventually, people begin  trading with others they don't  know and it becomes harder to  establish and track the reputation  of counterparties. Eventually the  market becomes regulated,  because it is more cost-effective to  have a central body managing  market entry and setting the rules.As I noted some time ago,  however, electronically-managed  or computer-mediated reputation  has become (thanks to the internet)  a viable choice again. I've always thought that eBay's reputation  system (the stars) was its most  interesting contribution to the  future of online business.As we know, there are limits to  this kind of system. Good traders  find their accounts hijacked by  fraudsters, and criminals list items  for sale with no intention of delivering  them. Nearly half of all the  online fraud complaints to the US  Federal Trade Commission in 2003  were about auctions and the vast  majority of auctions are on eBay.  Since eBay relies on passwords,  this kind of fraud is inevitable.But suppose eBay supported a  stronger form of authentication?  Suppose it used stronger authentication  to link eBay pseudonyms to  individuals (and, in particular,  individuals' bank accounts).One way to move this area  forward in interesting ways would be to allow people to use their  impending national ID cards to  both authenticate their access to  eBay (perhaps your name might be  displayed in green if you've  authenticated yourself this way)  and store their eBay reputation.  Then, when you are at a car boot  sale and spot a bargain, you could  easily check the seller's stars and  decide whether to do business with  him or her.And, if you think that using eBay  reputation as a substitute for "real  world" trading standards or credit  checking is too far-fetched, note  the deal with PayPal in the US that  allows eBay merchants with lots of  stars to offer interest free credit  (actually loans provided by GE  Consumer Finance) to purchasers.  How long before your bank asks  you for your eBay stars before it  gives you a loan for that new car?
IBM isn't the only company doing business with China. Last week, PalmSource bought China MobileSoft, a small supplier of software for mobile phones - and announced that it would be adding a Linux-based Palm OS to its line-up.CMS appeals in at least three ways. First, it already sells software for low-end mobile phones, and this is a market where PalmSource has no products. Second, CMS is working on a version of Linux for mobile devices: PalmSource hopes to benefit from selling Linux-based versions of Palm OS to handset suppliers and other manufacturers. Third, CMS provides a gateway into the fast-growing Asian market, where Palm OS is currently weak.All these sound like good reasons for taking over CMS. In fact, you   might wonder why PalmSource didn't do this three or four years ago. The answer, of course, is that it didn't exist.PalmSource was only founded when Palm was split into two companies. PalmSource got the software while PalmOne got the Palm and Handspring hardware, including the Treo smart phone.The split was designed to make Palm OS as widely available as its main competitors, Symbian and Microsoft's Windows CE, without new licensees feeling that the odds were stacked in Palm's favour. PalmSource boss David Nagel, a former Apple executive, hoped this would help avoid Palm going the same way as Apple, and ending up with 2% of the market.The problem is that instead of going straight to Linux, Palm OS has already been rewritten using   input from BeOS, the failed operating system that Apple was going to buy to form the basis of Mac OS X. (Apple rejected it in favour of Next's NextStep, based on BSD Unix.)As a result, PalmSource will end up with three versions of its operating system: the old Palm OS 5 (Garnet), the redeveloped Palm OS 6 (Cobalt), and a future OS 6 on top of Linux. It will also have CMS's operating systems, to which it will add the Palm user interface.PalmSource says that all this will give it unparalleled range, but it sounds a lot for a small company to handle, especially when it has other problems. These include Sony, a leading Palm OS user in its Clie handhelds, dropping the system outside Japan, and a decline in the PDA market, where Microsoft-based products have now over taken the once-dominant Palm platform.PalmOne, meanwhile, has so far failed to launch any products based on the superior Cobalt version, and is considering Windows CE and other operating systems. As an independent hardware company, of course, PalmOne isn't shackled to PalmSource.It is a sobering thought that Palm recently had about 80% of a fast-growing market for PDAs. Today, PalmSource is obliged to compete in the fast-growing market for smartphone software against Symbian and Windows Mobile, with Linux making progress as a potential challenger. The going is tough and could get tougher.Buying CMS may well be a good move for PalmSource, but it may not be enough, and it may be too late.An open letter to the Palm OS communityhttp://masl.to/?A1ED1250AAn open letter from PalmSource to the Linux communityhttp://masl.to/?W5DD2250A
Blogs produced using Movable Type, including this one, are under attack from "comment spam", with 50,000 hits a day being reported by some users. AtThe Daily Whim, Reid Stott writes that comment spam is "now stressing web servers so greatly that a number of hosts are shutting down comments in Movable Type, or shutting down Movable Type itself. So, if you run a weblog using Movable Type, and have comments enabled (even with MT Blacklist, as you'll see below), you've got a problem. Or rather, you may be causing one at your web host, and you may get shut down with no notice."Stott's post was followed by a long and interesting discussion about how to stop comment spam, and the part played by Google. (Probably nobody, or hardly anybody, ever clicks on comment spam, but the spammer's URLs get the benefit of appearing on blog pages that sometimes have high page ranks.)From a housekeeping point of view, it's Onlineblog's comment spam checking that has slowed down the Post command. If you are commenting, you only have to hit Postonce, then just wait for the comment to go through. Thankyou!Also, I'm seeing more and more examples of what I've decided to call the Vigilante Tendency. Here's one from the comments:I've been in the internet security wars for about 15 years now. Absolutely nothing has changed in those 15 years except the rapidity with which the black hats can operate and adapt to the humane measures we are taking so far. We're all still living inside the stockades and building more walls that have to be climbed, but nobody is out killing Comanches. Comment by Scott Chaffin · Dec 12, 7:40pm
1.Need for Speed: Underground 2(Electronic Arts)2.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas(Rockstar)3.Call of Duty: Finest Hour(Spark/Activision)4.The Incredibles(THQ)5.Fifa 2005(Electronic Arts)6.Prince of Persia: Warrior Within(Ubi Soft)7.GoldenEye: Rogue Agent(Electronic Arts)8.The Getaway: Black Monday(SCEE)9.Pro Evolution Soccer 4(Konami)10.Halo 2(Microsoft)Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
Today'sWall Street Journal Europecarries a story about how mobile firms are keying in to tech gossip websites (unfortunately it's subscription-only, so I'm not linking to it). Here's a flavour of what it says:""There's an insatiable appetite for seeing new phones from every angle, explains [Richard] Brome, who runs his web site, calledphonescoop.com, from his apartment. "Sometimes I feel like a technology pornographer," he says.""Mr Brome and cybersleuths like him are at the center of a teeming world of online cellphone gossip that is taking on an influential role in the $100bn industry. The sites have emerged over the past couple of years, riding the global boom in the gadgets as their position in popular culture grows."""Motorola is constantly looking at ways to work with these tech enthusiasts and considers them to be a valuable resource," a Motorola spokeswoman says."Of course, corporate interests seeing the value in what are essentially industry gossip columns is nothing new. The difference with this union is that this time, the power lies more with the average consumer, and less with the professional observer.That's the Power Of Blogs (TM) at work.
"Everybody has peculiarities. Anyone who says otherwise is lying. There are people who collect Mazinger Z cards, have their computer case painted in pistachio green, or can't get a good sleep until they have jumped three times on one leg. Such small weaknesses turn out, inevitably, in pocket computers, and the Web holds a true cornucopia of weird, weird, weird programs," says CanalPDA. It presents a Top 10 of Palm OS exampleshere.
"Thanks to the success of our Special Edition U2 iPod, a slew of other artists are now clamoring to have signature MP3 devices of their own. Pre-order your favorite today," it sayshere.
Not satisfied with using a normal controller with Resident Evil 4? Why not try outthisdedicated blood-splattered chainsaw joypad currently available for pre-order fromLik-Sang. According to the description text, "holding it in your hands for sure makes you feel like a man." Do you think they're joking?Apparently, it comes with a sound chip to mimic the noise of a revving saw, but I don't think it has a motion sensor to translate your wild manly thrusts into game movements...
When I saw this headline this morning I thought I was still concussed from the super-cool spill I took off my bike last night. Nope, a 22-year old kid from Oz has paid US$26,500 in one fell swoop for a packet of virtual land in the Massively Multiplayer Online Game (MMOG)Project Entropia. Although virtual economies thrive in parallel with our own (see The Guardian's coveragehereandhere), this is the most money anyone has ever spent at one time in an MMOG. I'd love to have 26K to burn.While it may seem that this young lad is the one who's got the concussion, actually it appears to be a sound investment of his cash; the game is one of the few (if not the only?) virtual worlds that uses a cash-based economy, unlike EverQuest and its ilk which use "platinum pieces" or "simoleans". The young virtual investor can expect tax revenue and rent from new tenants.Check outIGNfor more details, but head toTerra Novafor, I'm sure, a more detailed discussion of what this monumental event actually means.
Students take note - endless journeys to the library could become a thing of the past thanks to a new multimillion-pound scheme to make classic texts available at the click of a mouse.Under a deal announced yesterday between the internet search engine Google and five of the world's top libraries, some of the globe's greatest literary treasures will soon be freely available for all to read on the world wide web.Oxford University's world-renowned Bodleian Library will initially make an estimated 1m books from its 19th-century collection available to Google, while Stanford University and the University of Michigan in the US will be contributing their libraries of a combined 15m titles. Also taking part in the scheme on a test basis are Harvard University and the New York Public Library.The project will involve scanning millions of titles - many of them rare and delicate - and making the text available on the internet via Google searches. It is a process which experts have predicted could take as long as 10 years."This project won't necessarily have an end date," said Fabio Selmoni, the managing director of Google's European advertising sales and operations. "As far as Google is concerned, it's very exciting to move into a non-digitised area and bring it to people all around the world. We're working very closely with libraries and publishers to make as much information available as possible."The deal fits with Google's wide-reaching ambitions to drive as much information as possible on to the internet. Although there have been setbacks along the way - Downing Street this week jettisoned its 2006 e-government target, for example - many remain confident that the future for all data, new and old, lies on the web.Bullish predictions from search companies indicate that it is not a case of if data will hit the internet, but when. "We have the audacity to believe that one day we will be able to provide all the world's information online," Mr Selmoni boasted.The California-based search giant hopes to get a head start on its competitors by integrating the library information into its own database, while the libraries involved will benefit from having their collections brought into the digital age. The Bodleian could eventually see its entire collection of 8m titles transferred into searchable digital formats.Although many out-of-copyright titles are already available for free on the web, Google hopes users will take the opportunity to search across collections and look at titles previously only available on library shelves."The Bodleian Library's 19th-century collections, which include many out-of-print titles which would otherwise be incredibly hard to find, will be scanned as part of the Google Print Programme," said Reg Carr, the director of Oxford University Library Services. "We hope that Oxford's contribution to this project will be of scholarly use, as well as general interest, to people around the world."The scheme could revolutionise academic life by putting information at the fingertips of readers instead of being filed away in musty library catalogues. Students, scholars and amateur enthusiasts alike will be able to look at books which were previously out of reach - including works by Charles Darwin, Edgar Allen Poe and Charles Babbage - simply by connecting to the internet."At the moment you can come and look at these texts if you have a bona fide scholastic interest," said Nicky Old, a spokeswoman for Oxford University. "Now you will be able to do it from the comfort of your home or office. And the benefit of being on the internet is that it's not just accessible, but searchable as well."Neither Google nor the libraries would reveal any financial details of the project, but the search giant's well-publicised flotation this year raised more than $1bn - capital that could easily be injected into a programme which some are estimating will cost at least $150m.Google's attempt to become a library on the web is not the first of its kind, but it is by far the most ambitious. Project Gutenberg already publishes   the texts of books which are out of copyright, while the British Library is part of a &#163;2m scheme allowing readers to view copyright-sensitive material electronically. Google and the online retailer Amazon, meanwhile, have made deals with publishers such as HarperCollins and Penguin to make newer, copyright-sensitive titles available."We're not just intending to   focus on books that are out of print," Mr Selmoni said."We are also hoping publishers will realise the benefits of putting their existing catalogues online."Books that could find their way into GoogleThe Descent of Man - Charles DarwinThe Bodleian Library has an extensive collection of Darwin material, including his 1871 work The Descent of Man - a follow-up to the controversial The Origin of SpeciesGoblin Market and Other Poems - Christina RossettiOxford has an original edition of Goblin Market, the first major success for the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, of which Rossetti was a member. Her most well-known work was praised by reviewers for heralding a new voice and original talent when it was published in 1862On the Economy of Machinery and Manufacturers - Charles BabbageBabbage is better known as the godfather of computing, but this 1832 rarity was his first exploration of management theory. His passion was calculating machinery and he was well aware of the commercial possibilities of such a machine, and gives a description of cost accounting in this bookThe Principia: Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy - Isaac NewtonStanford has a first edition of Newton's 1687 work, in which he laid out the principles of time, force and motion that have guided modern physicsThe Whetstone of Witte - Robert RecordThe University of Michigan has a rare copy of Record's bizarre mathematical manual - the first publication to use the equals sign because, in the author's words, "noe .2. thynges, can be moare equalle"
The world's two richest men have joined forces. Bill Gates, the co-founder of Microsoft, has joined the board of Berkshire Hathaway, the investment company run by Warren Buffett, affectionately known as the Oracle of Omaha.Forbes Magazine this year listed Mr Gates' net worth at $46.6bn (&#163;24.1bn). Mr Buffett, who lives modestly in Nebraska, Omaha, was valued at $42.9bn.The two men are friends and are said to play each other at Bridge over the internet. Mr Gates is based in Seattle.The hiring could herald a new direction for Mr Buffett, whose investment prowess is legendary.He has historically steered clear of technology stocks, something that earned him criticism during the internet boom, with the explanation that he prefers to invest in things he understands. Berkshire is a significant shareholder in Coca-Cola, American Express and Gillette. His policy is to buy stocks and hang onto them for a long time. Mr Gates in turn is already a shareholder in Berkshire.Mr Buffett is known for his homespun wisdom. Berkshire's annual meeting, known as Woodstock for capitalists, is a pilgrimage for many investors hoping proximity might help his luck rub off. Mr Gates will take the place on the board of Mr Buffett's wife, Susan, who died of a stroke in July.The board consists of 11 members, including former Coca-Cola chief Donald Keough, Mr Buffett's son Howard and another technology chairman, Walter Scott of Level 3 Communications. With Mr Gates joining the Berkshire board, two of the most respected men in corporate America will be working alongside one another. They do, however, differ in one aspect. Mr Buffett publicly supported John Kerry's run for president and has been a fierce critic of the Bush administration's tax cuts. Mr Gates is a George Bush supporter.More recently Mr Buffett has taken to buying businesses outright as it has been more difficult to find undervalued stocks. Equity holdings represent 50% of Berkshire Hathaway's net worth.
Hollywood stepped up its battle against internet pirates yesterday when the Motion Picture Association of America launched a legal battle against the filesharing networks BitTorrent and eDonkey.Both networks are widely used to trade pirated movies online. The association is working with police in the US and Europe to target individuals involved in the setting up of the filesharing facilities, as opposed to those using them, or the software companies behind the programs. BitTorrent itself is a piece of file transfer software, but the MPAA's targets are those who provide links to pirated files.John Malcolm, the MPAA's director of worldwide antipiracy operations, said: "These people are parasites, leeching off the creative activity of others. They serve as traffic cops connecting those who want to steal movies with those who have a copy and want to provide it."Nearly 7,000 individuals have been targeted during the MPAA's two-year battle against online piracy, but the cross-border legal actions mark a new stage in the operation. BitTorrent and eDonkey have risen in popularity recently because they allow users to download very large files, meaning that entire movies, computer games and software are accessible.eDonkey recently surpassed Kazaa as the most popular fileswapping network in numbers of users, while BitTorrent has long been the largest network in terms of the amount of data transferred across the web.More than 100 server operators around the world are being prosecuted, said the MPAA. In the US the actions are mainly being pursued through the civil courts, while in Europe several criminal prosecutions are being undertaken.In France several cases have already been filed against the administrators of seven servers used to help people trade files. Their operator is still wanted by the French authorities.
This month saw the tenth anniversary of the Japanese PlayStation launch, and with Sony'slatest blockbusting projectalready flying off ofAkihabarashelves, it seemed like a good time to glance back at the birth of the machine that started it all. These days we take it for granted that Sony Computer Entertainment is the biggest player in the business - it's easy to forget that, a decade ago, the company had little or no presence in the industry. So how exactly did the consumer technology giant build its videogame empire? I talked to SCEE's Executive Vice President of Development Phil Harrison about those incredible early years...The old story is that the PlayStation evolved from a CD drive that Sony developed for the Nintendo SNES console. Is this completely accurate?Sony has an even longer history in the game business going back to the mid- 1980s with the MSX platform and then later with designing and supplying the sound chip for the SNES. It's true that Sony created a CD game system based on the SNES technology, but due to commercial difficulties with Nintendo, that product never made it to the market. Sony then decided to enter the games business properly with our own technology and business model in 1992.It seems to me that Sony prepared really well for the launch of PlayStation by spending a lot of time going around the world and talking to developers about what they wanted from a CD-based console.Yes, we spent a lot of time listening to the developers and publishers about what they wanted - not really from a technical point of view but about the business model and level of support that we could offer the industry. Those early discussions were invaluable in helping us shape our business model and approach to the market.How much input did game developers have into the specs of the PlayStation and its APIs?Not a huge amount, to be honest. We held a number of "behind closed door" presentations and demos of the prototype development hardware - incidentally, it was about the size of a small photocopier - to the development community in late 1993 and early 1994. By then the hardware specification was fixed, although we did add some more memory to the system later.How did Sony seek to garner opinion from the industry?We held lots of meetings, made literally hundreds of presentations and sought to gain as much support from the industry as possible. At the time, the market was dominated by two aggressive competitors: Sega and Nintendo. Although both companies had done a great job growing the market, it was still effectively a toy business and there were real commercial and technical issues with the cartridge-based business model that they had adopted. The industry was extremely supportive of our attempts to bring new thinking to the industry and to take it new directions.What do you think were the key early factors in the success of the machine?We set out with two clear goals: to be the creative choice of the game developers by offering the best technology with the best development tools, and to be the commercial choice of the publishers by offering the best business model and opportunity for profit. Getting those right was key to our success.So, right from the beginning, Sony was marketing the machine as a lifestyle accessory rather than a toy. Where did this idea come from?The idea really came from the power of the technology - the sophisticated 3D graphics, high performance processor and digital sound were only available in high-end workstations costing, back then, over £10,000. By delivering this power in a home system for £299 we were able to attract a new audience of consumers who had previously not been into games.PlayStation games looked, sounded and played better - and really delivered an "arcade quality" experience on the TV in the living room. Although by today's standards the graphics were relatively simple, you have to remember back then it was a revelation. By making games more realistic, more consumers found them interesting and were attracted to play games perhaps for the first time in their lives.If the graphics were themselves a major selling point, why was the whole lifestyle angle so important?If we were successful in positioning PlayStation as an aspirational product we would differentiate ourselves from the old "toy" image of the Sega and Nintendo market. We were not simply selling a game system, we were promoting an entertainment lifestyle. PlayStation was the first game system to make it "cool" to play games and you had to join in, or be left out. We pioneered many marketing techniques that are now commonplace in our industry - things like PlayStation chill-out rooms in top nighclubs, celebrity product placement, guerrilla branding at music festivals, and the PlayStation skate-park in west London. All of these were totally innovative concepts for launching a game system in 1995, although the echoes of these campaigns still resonate today. The advertising was innovative, talked-about, edgy and unlike anything that had been used in the category before. I think that we made some of the best ads, in any industry, for PlayStation.At what point did you realise that PlayStation was a major phenomenon? What were the key moments for you?There were plenty - I think the first time was on the UK launch day on the 29th September 1995, going into HMV on Oxford Street and seeing people actually buy the machine that had been the focus of our lives for nearly three years. After that, it was the little things: somebody would mention PlayStation on TV or in a magazine and you could see that it was invading popular culture.Style magazines started to feature PlayStation games regularly, and then The Face put Lara Croft on the front cover. Style commentators would use the expression "PlayStation Generation" and we'd all know what they meant. I'd been making games for 10 years before PlayStation and I would always feel somewhat self-conscious admitting what I did for a living in certain circles. After we launched, telling someone you worked for PlayStation would get an instantly positive reaction. It's clear that for many people, PlayStation was more than games, it was like a new culture - whether you played or not, you couldn't ignore it. It's as important as music or film to millions of people, more so for many.What have been your personal highpoints over PlayStation's opening decade?Although there have been many highpoints since, I won't forget 1995 and 1996 in the UK - it was the summer of Britpop, and Oasis at Knebworth had PlayStation in their VIP area, for example. Sounds normal - almost corny - now, but it was very cool then I can assure you! We had no idea how big it would eventually become, but being involved in the launch of PlayStation was an amazing time of real innovation for our industry; creatively, technically and in the new cultural language we helped create. Whether you love games or not, there aren't many products that have made such a huge cultural impact. You can't take that away from PlayStation - or from the people around the world who helped, in whatever way, to make it happen.
Rare 19th-century books from Oxford's Bodleian Library are to be made available online, it was announced today.Oxford, together with Harvard, Stanford, the University of Michigan and the New York Public library, is working with the search engine Google to digitally scan books from rare collections, allowing users from around the world to access books and materials.Small samples from the libraries are starting to be scanned in at the moment, and the process will be an ongoing one, said Anna Lineker from Google."We are working very closely with the libraries to ensure that it is a seamless process and causes minimum disruption. It is great for the libraries, as they will get digitalised archives of all their material."The Bodleian Library has a collection of approximately 8 million books, built up over centuries since its foundation in 1602 when precious volumes were chained up to prevent them being stolen by readers. Now its riches will be read around the globe.The first of these books to be included in the scheme will be the university's 19th-century holdings - around 1 million titles in total. Classics such as Charles Darwin's work The Origin of Species will be included, as well as more unusual titles.A spokesperson for the library said: "I suppose these will be the most interesting to scholars, if we have hard to find or rare books then they can access them from anywhere in the world."Reg Carr, the director of Oxford University Library services, said: "Making the wealth of knowledge accumulated in the Bodleian Library's historic collections accessible to as many people as possible is at the heart of Oxford University's commitment to lifelong learning."Oxford is therefore proud to be part of this effort to make information available to everyone who might benefit from it."The Bodleian's 19th-century collections, which include many out-of-print titles which otherwise would be incredibly hard to find, will be scanned as part of the Google Print programme. We hope that Oxford's contribution to this project will be of scholarly use, as well as general interest, to people around the world."Users searching with Google will see links in their search results page when there are books relevant to their query. Clicking on a title delivers a Google Print page where users can browse the full text of public domain works and brief excerpts or bibliographic data of copyrighted material. Library content will be displayed in keeping with copyright law.This scheme is an expansion of the Google Print program, which assists publishers in making books and other offline information searchable online.In a press release today, Larry Page, the co-founder of Google, said: "Even before we started Google, we dreamed of making the incredible breadth of information that librarians so lovingly organise searchable online."
To celebrate the launch of its new website, mobile games publisher Gameloft is offering a free game to all visitors (with compatible handsets). Just head tothis pageand let them know what phone you have. The game you'll receive depends on your network operator and handset model (if you've got an ancient brick with a monochrome screen you can more-or-less forget all about this) - they're offering some real gems from the Gameloft back catalogue including Rayman Bowling and Gulo's Tale.
Microsoft Corp. on Monday became the second tech-industry giant to offer software for searching through computer desktops - a technology it claims is vastly superior to that launched by Google two months ago," reportsAP."The free software - included in the new MSN Toolbar Suite and compatible with the Windows XP and Windows 2000 operating systems - is designed to let computer users find the information they're looking for without scrolling through thousands of e-mails or file folders. Instead, they will be able to search for keywords located in virtually any type of file, from e-mails to instant messages to PDFs, just as easily as they conduct searches on the Internet."Comment:The article has a link to Charlene Li'sblogat Forrester Research.
Have Sony got a problem on their hands with the PSP launch?Unconfirmed reportssuggest that dead pixels, stuck buttons and other faults have blighted the handheld's launch. Despite this the launch seems to have gone well, withCNN reportinga sell out. One of the more comprehensive reviews around can be foundhere. Finally, those of you lucky enough to have your hands on a PSP will want todownloadthe latest movie software that allows users to run MP4 files on their handheld.
A tiny west African country is demanding control of its internet domain back, reports today'sFinancial Times."São Tomé and Principe claims it has unwittingly become the continent's electronic porn publishing capital after a Swedish company and its local partner sold the country's internet identity without government approval."The government is demanding a share of the income earned from selling addresses using São Tomé's .st suffix, after a US survey found they accounted for more than three-quarters of the porn pages generated from websites that use African nations' identities.""The controversy highlights an evolving debate over control of potentially lucrative national internet identities - known as top-level domains - after disputes over domains ranging from Moldova to the minuscule Pitcairn Islands in the south Pacific."
The next generation offering fromOddworld Inhabitants, the team that brought us the phenomenal Abe's series and the Xbox's tremendous Munch's Oddyssee, is set to rile a few political feathers.The development studio, founded byOscar-nominatedfilm industry veterans Lorne Lanning and Sherry McKenna, has never shied away from tackling big issues in their games; their first trilogy attacked big business and worker exploitation. Far from being Right On,Abe's Oddysee,Abe's ExoddusandMunch's Oddyseeare all extremely entertaining, best-selling and enjoyable products that consistently attract a wider audience than the traditional gamer geek.This time, according togamesindustry.biz, they aim to get under the skins of politicos of certain current governments. Excellent. They're looking for answers? I expect a lot of gamers are as well.If all goes well, this could start a new revolution for mainstream console gaming to be raised in high-level government discussions for the right reasons, and not because of violent gimmicks. Any why not? It's time to get intelligent. Games can and should have an agenda.Keep an eye out for Citizen Siege. First, look out for their forthcoming title,Oddworld: Stranger's Wrath.
