What are you driving?Mini Cooper, 1999, volcano orange with a white roof stripe on the bonnet and the number plate "Diddy".What does that say about you?If you drive a mini you're fun and unpretentious.What do you like about it/not like about it?It's a perfect town car - you can park cheaply. When I'm at Fulham football club it only needs half a parking space. You could halve the traffic problems in London if everyone drove a Mini. The downside is that you can feel all the bumps. It's not for motorway driving.Why did you buy it?I had the number plate first, which I discovered at a DVLA auction. (Ken Dodd nicknamed me Diddy.) So then I had to find a car to match it and it had to be a small car so I went for a Mini. I've recently been offered a large sum of money from the Chelsea footballer Didier Deschamps for the number plate but I'm not selling.What was your first car?A Morris Minor - a terrific vintage model with a split windscreen. If I'd kept it, it would probably be worth a lot of money now. I've owned and sold a lot of classic cars.Have you ever crashed/got a speeding ticket/got any points etc?I was involved in a serious road   accident in the 60s when I went across a trunk road into a ditch. I ended up with broken ribs and had to have stitches across my face. My agent said with a face like that I'd have a great future in radio.Have you ever experienced road rage?I'm always aware of the golden rule: sit tight and keep the door locked.Have you ever had sex or any romantic encounters in a car?I used to rather a lot - and rather enjoyed it. I've even had a bunk-up in the back of a Mini, although not my current car.What music do you listen to on the road?Classical because I want to be relaxed. It's annoying to hear all the jungle music from other cars. Driving is stressful enough as it is. I also listen to other radio stations to see what they're up to.What would be your dream car? Why?A Bentley Continental is the finest car on the road, except that it's impractical. I've owned Bentleys and Rollers in the past but soon learned you can't leave them anywhere because they always end up scratched. Vandals don't bother with a Mini.David Hamilton presents the weekday Drivetime show 3-7pm on Liberty Radio.
Book your tickets now to the London Motor Show and see automotive history being made. Witness the shock debuts of the sensational Rover 25 and the stunning new Ford Fiesta. Otherwise, save yourself the sweat and shoe leather and take a wander through the website.Here, you'll be able to check out the fresh metal, stand by virtual stand. Surfing the show, you'll not only save the &#163;12 admission price, but you'll be spared the disappointment of a non-virtual visit. Perhaps because much of the launch wind has been stolen from Earl's Court's sails by the concurrent Tokyo car show, London's last pre-millennium carfest will go down in history like a slow puncture.The most telling sign of a bare exhibition cupboard is the amount of distraction going on in front of it. To be fair, the show's press preview day was very good - for snapping celebs. Hot on the barely concealed buttocks of Rover's new model Sadie Frost came a very smiley Carol Smillie, enlisted by Mitsubishi to tell a keen audience of professional road testers what they ought to think about the new mini Shogun 4x4, the Italian-built Pinin. With a script as rigid as MDF, Carol pointed to all the decorative essentials, including the dribble-free paintwork. Moments later, Top of the Pops totty Gail Porter was wheeled out to impersonate a frightened Furby in front of the new Seat Leon hatchback. Gail was speechless, leaving us all to draw our own conclusions about the bodywork, which, it has to be said, looked pleasingly solid.Porter packed away, it was time for four sets of keys to be collected from the Chrysler stand by the members of girl band All Saints. Shaznay Lewis enthused : "Ever since I first saw the Grand Cherokee I just fell in love with it." Word is that the quartet paid significantly less than the &#163;34,995 asking price for the 4.7 litre V8 off-roader (as in, nothing).Claudia Schiffer is a bit more straightforward. She openly admits she can't drive and Citro&euml;n makes no secret of her multi-million pound contract to stand and smile by the Xsara. Schiffer emerged after three hours and 15 minutes in make up and, as dutifully reported by the Daily Mail, wore a rather revealing cardigan.The real revelations, however, are more interesting. Truth is, a big black cloud hangs over this year's show   because new car sales are as slack as bookings for the Millennium Dome. Rover's stockpile of 75 saloons is now reported to be visible from the moon, and while official sales figures are already disappointingly short of target, as many as 380,000 V-reg cars listed as "sold" have in fact merely been pre-registered by dealers. Set against the escalating media chorus that UK buyers are being ripped off by high prices is the makers' retort that cars are often cheaper when UK buyers shop abroad because they don't have to pay the duty and taxes demanded in the country of purchase.But no matter how indignant sales directors become, the public's perception is that they are being shafted. Consequently all eyes are still on Ford, with the expectation that Brentwood will be the epicentre of any imminent price collapse. They won't admit it on the record, but all car makers have a price-slash implementation plan in their back pockets; as soon as Ford jumps, they will follow within hours.So the most likely way to enjoy this show will be to forget the droning reality of economics and indulge in some fantasy shopping. Next to the X5, BMW's Karloffian attempt at an offroader, sits the luscious Z8, soon to be seen as James Bond's new wheels in The World is not Enough (stand K10). The car will cost more than &#163;80,000 when it goes on sale in April. Pricier still, the Porsche 911 Turbo (stand L2) will be the ultimate speed thrill - a 420bhp twin turbo with a top speed (car-haters feel free to write) of 190mph.French manufacturers, meanwhile, continue to demonstrate what seems to be an inherent inability to make a desirable director's car. Renault has now said that it will make the Avantime concept (stand E10) available next year. The luxury four-seater coupe-cum-MPV is pretty but doesn't quite shrug off the weird quirkiness of its forebears. Peugeot has a more pragmatic answer in the shape of the new 607 (stand E8). The maker must hope that it will be more   successful than the old 605 which was one of the few cars to be simultaneously extremely rare and hugely dull. A launch text for the 607 that includes the adjective "sensitive" may not help - does this mean it will repeatedly break down?There are more affordable fantasies for those prepared to look beyond the supermodels. Vauxhall (stand D6) has an early view of the VX220, a two-seater roadster that won't be here for another year, but should be a lot of fun for the money. The styling of TVR's new Tuscan Speed Six (stand E2) is about as subtle as the cover of a porn mag, and the radical new Lotus 340R (stand L18), perhaps inspired by the Pompidou Centre, is a stripped-out road racer with its innards on the outside.The most notable absentee from the show is Skoda, which is a great pity because its forthcoming Fabia, shortlisted for European Car of the Year, is the first of a new generation of designs to be based on VW's new small-car platform. Among others, the Fabia is to compete for the Car of the Year crown against the Toyota Yaris and Vauxhall Zafira, which have the combined charm of a pair of beige crimplene trousers. By contrast, the Fabia is chunky, cute and, well, just fab. But you can't see it. Skoda says it   decided to boycott the show because the organisers couldn't offer a space "worthy of where the marque has gone in the last two years", which is a likely reference to a posh spot well away from the lavatories.However, it seems that the show organisers have a bigger problem on their hands than the odd miffed maker, namely the sort of types who call themselves visitors. Virtually every stand has plain-clothes security specialists on duty and their mission is to ensure that as much of the cars as possible remain at the end of the month. Judging by previous years, souvenir hunters carry screwdrivers. Andrew, taking care of Porsche, is paid to be a hawk: "The first thing is to watch the barriers. Some people can be a bit merry and then they get impatient, but we only let a certain number in at a time. So if they jump over, you have to take them to one side and reason with them. I've been spat on and abused - they all think they have a right to be on the stand." Andrew recently apprehended a thief who had slid a stolen aerial up his sleeve: "When I stopped him, he whipped it out and slashed it across my face."To try and stem the tide of stolen dust caps, cigarette lighters and wiper blades, some makers resort to super glue and even removing the parts from the cars altogether. Jaguar says it is relieved that road safety rules have necessitated changing the leaping mascot for the "growler" disc badge - "It's harder to steal," says Chris Hulse, security guru for the marque, "but vandalism is still an issue. We recently had a huge box thrown off the balcony above us onto the bonnet of an XJ."In the good old days of British Leyland, show thefts were more spectacular. One team repeatedly visited a Mark 1 Range Rover until they'd successfully removed the entire crankshaft. And because car seats couldn't stand the wear of a full show, a team of white-coated men who turned up to remove and "change" the seats of a Marina were never questioned.Back at Seat, the publicity team, paid to look after public enquiries, had been briefed to be on the look-out for the modern car show's Public Enemy Number One. Said Melinda: "He always comes to the shows and he's an expert at pilfering bits off the cars. He's short, fat and bald and he wears a baseball cap."Director of the show Mark Saunders plays down the crime problem. He says the stories of entire engines and exhaust systems being swiped are long gone - the 350 cars at Earl's Court are watched 24 hours a day and security patrols are carried out both on foot and through surveillance cameras.Entire cars can go missing, however. Last year, a model supplied by a Korean manufacturer did just that. It was bright yellow and blue and worth more than &#163;120. This year, Nick Bryant, who looks after Daewoo's children's playcentre, says he will be extra vigilant.The London Motor Show runs at Earl's Court until Oct 31.www.motorshow.autohit.com
New police powers to intercept and decode private e-mail messages are in fundamental breach of human rights, according to a legal opinion from two of Britain's leading rights lawyers to be released this week.In a damning critique of the Government's Electronic Communications Bill, the opinion accuses Ministers of reversing the presumption of 'innocent until proven guilty', eroding the legal right to silence and putting insufficient safeguards in place to avoid police abuses.The Bill will give the police powers to demand decryption 'keys' that allow encoded material to be read, to bring criminal prosecution against anyone who does not comply with such an order and to scrutinise any material found as a result - whether it relates to the original investigation or not.'The Government is attempting to bolt decryption powers for the Internet onto existing interception laws,' said Caspar Bowden, director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, who requested the opinion, along with Justice, the legal human rights group. 'This legal analysis demonstrates why this approach is unsound and is incompatible with basic human rights. The powers of the police in this area can only be described as Kafka-esque.'The 44-page analysis, drawn up by Jack Beatson QC, a former Law Commissioner, and Tim Eicke, a barrister specialising in human rights and communication, is a serious blow to the Home Office, which is desperate to avoid a 'big brother' tag.'We are aware of the human rights issues,' said a spokesman. 'But we believe that the provisions in the Bill are compatible with the human rights articles.'The opinion argues that the power granted to security forces by the handing over of an encryption key is too draconian, giving officers 'access to all his or her communications, past, present and future'. It says there are other ways of giving access to encrypted information, including handing over decrypted messages, or the encoded text for a particular 'session' along with the key.The creation of a criminal offence of failing to hand over a key contravenes the right to a fair trial guaranteed under Article 6 of the European Convention, it adds. The same Article guards against self-incrimination, which is likely to be breached by the total access offered to law enforcement agencies.Fears that the Government is moving towards an aggressive policy of e-mail surveillance and interception will be fuelled by the appointment of a senior operative from GCHQ, the intelligence communications centre, to head a new squad to tackle the growing use of the Internet by criminal gangs and terrorist organisations.Alongside the new powers to demand encryption keys, the e-crime squad is considering subtle forms of detection which do not alert suspects to surveillance.
Before free internet service providers,Amazon.com, portals, broadband and browser wars, before even the world wide web itself, there were newsgroups.A great example of an often overlooked facet of the internet, newsgroups are an online reminder of when the internet was still a freewheeling experiment in global communications, rather than a flashy medium useful for shifting product.Originally known simply as Usenet, the first newsgroups were set up in 1979 as a way for students at Duke university in the US to communicate with one another across campus. Usenet operates now as a free global bulletin board system that allows like-minded individuals to share their thoughts, and the old-school text-based system seems charmingly   out of place next to the all-singing, all-dancing web. It's not hard to see how Usenet has become marginalised; newsgroups don't look pretty, the entire system is hosted by volunteers, and worst of all, they don't make any money.The reason Usenet is still popular, with somewhere between 25,000-30,000 newsgroups, is that all of human life can be found there. Not just the clich&eacute; hobbyists that one usually associates with the web - assassination theorists, Star Trek fans, Bill Gates lovers/haters, porn stars, et al - but newsgroups run by people who might actually have a life away from mouse and keyboard. Anything and everything is up for discussion. At its best, Usenet feels like a virtual jamboree, full of wisdom, wit and passion, whether it's arguing over your favourite Sufi singers (alt.music.world), or producing a home-made tipple,    Mr Miyagi's favourite houseplants (rec.arts.bonsai), getting your own back (alt.revenge), getting out more (rec.arts.theatre.plays), cosying up (alt.cuddle), calming down (alt.support.panic-attacks), and so on, each with its regular contributors, discussions, and arguments. Posting isn't obligatory, you can simply browse through other people's posts and silently follow the discussion- "lurking", as it is known in internet parlance.Newsgroups are easy to find. You used to need a specialised bit of software, like Free Agent for the PC or Newswatcher for the Apple Mac, but nowadays newer versions of web browsers like Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Internet Explorer, or Outlook Express, do the job too. You'll need to tell the program what your service provider's news server is called - your ISP helpline or website will tell you.When you start up the newsgroup reader, you should see a long list of newsgroup names - your ISP decides which newsgroups to show you, and while some are quick to weed out any dubious groups, others will quite happily let you subscribe to groups like 12hr.sex.abnormal (I have no idea either - I'm too scared to check it out).To find what you are looking for, simply use the search function to find a key word like, say, "Clinton" for a discussion on the president for example, and the program will search for any newsgroup with that word in the title. All newsgroups are titled by their subject matter and fall into basic categories or hierarchies, of which most are self-explanatory; rec. for recreation, sci. for science, alt. for alternative and so on.The alternative category is one of the most popular, mainly because it's much easier to set up your own alt. newsgroup that any other. Probably as a result, alt. subject matter is both more interesting and more terrifyingly odd than any other category - alt.fan.adolf-hitler.and.crumpets anyone? The flip side of alt. posts rarely being censored by those in charge of the discussion, is that they fall victim to the absolute scourge of the newsgroup: the spammer.Named after the Monty Python sketch where spam overwhelmingly dominates the somewhat limited menu, this cheap electronic junk mail is one of the banes of daily online life. Almost every one of the alt.music discussions is constantly   being broken up by hundreds of spam-posts, either from companies advertising their own music sites, or from fellow users selling records or memorabilia on sites like eBay. In some cases the net community that has built up around an established newsgroup will step in and "flame" the guilty party with hundreds of emails, and even (in some cases) viruses. In less passionate environments, disillusioned users abandon spammed newsgroups and they end up derelict.As a result, web-based discussion forums which work in a similar way to newsgroups, like Table Talk atSalon.com, have flourished, offering the forum for intelligent discussion that some newsgroups find difficult to maintain.http://tabletalk.salon.comoffers thousands of discussion areas, grouped into user-friendly categories like technology and the net, international issues, music and movies. Some of the   most popular discussions have been up and running since Salon started back in 1995, while those threads gathering dust are allowed to die with dignity. Anyone can post once they have registered (it's free), and dip into discussions at any point.Sites like this usually ask users to register, partly because if they turn out to be an unsavoury element, it is far easier to block their access. Salon also hostsThe Well, one of the first and most influential discussion forums, although there is a small charge for this site. Similarly, if you're looking for specialist discussion, the best fan-created websites offer facilities.It is no coincidence that some of the longest-running sites in the business (1995 is practically the cretaceous period in internet time), offer discussion areas that mimic the Usenet setup.What newsgroups have always successfully offered is the chance to communicate with one another about our passions. A place where people can share ideas, agree, argue, and tell others about what they love and hate. That's basically what we've been doing as a race for the past few thousand years. But only newsgroups let us do that anytime, anywhere, with anyone.
Pre-history1958Dwight D Eisenhower created the Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA) to further American military science after the Soviet Union launches Sputnik.1962ARPA works on computer technology. Head scientist Dr JCR Licklider sees the potential of interactive computers and moves ARPA's contracts from the private sector to universities.1968Licklider and associate Robert W. Taylor argue that remote communication allows individuals to fulfill their intellectual potential in the April edition of Science and Technology. They say that the most creative member of a group will not be shouted down by the loudest if he is emperor of his own domain. 'There has to be some way of facilitating communicantion among people with out bringing them together in one place,' they add.The early networks1969A network is established between universties in Salt Lake City, Los Angeles, Santa Barbara and Stanford, near San Francisco. Professor Leonard Kleinrock in LA decides he will log on to the Stanford machine so the two computers can 'talk'. The other two sites watch as an 'L' appears on the screen, followed by an 'O' and then a 'G'. The system crashes. The internet is born.1972Larry Roberts at ARPA decides the network (originally called the ARPAnet) needs some encouragement and arranges a public demonstration of a machine in the basement of the Washington Hilton Hotel running applications and email in 23 sites across the US.1973Trekkies go online. A weekly Star Trek text game becomes popular with graduate students on Friday nights.1974University College, London becomes the first site in Britain online. A commercial  email network, Telenet, is established.1976Queen Elizabeth sends the first royal email.1977The network has 100 hosts. (Today it is 60 million.)1979Graduate students at Duke University and the University of North Carolina in the US establish the first newsgroups.1981The network now has 213 hosts. In this period of rapid growth it adds another every 20 days.1982The term 'internet' is used for the first time.The first boom1984William Gibson writes about 'cyberspace' in his novel Neuromancer1985Internet email becomes part of life on US university campuses1988An early virus, Internet Worm, disables 6,000 of the world's 60,000 hosts as the digital community creates its first hackers.1989There are now 100,000 hosts.1990Now 300,000.1992Now 1,000,000.World wide web1993Mosiac, the first graphics based web browser, becomes available and internet traffic grows by 300,000 per cent.1994Japan's prime minister goes online, Marc Andreesen and Jim Clark form Netscape Communications Corp, the Rolling Stones broadcast their Voodoo Lounge tour on the net and Pizza Hut sells the first pizza on the web.1995Amazon.com is launched.199610 million hosts connect 40 million people.1997Internet use takes off in the UK. In the US web journalist Matt Drudge publishes the first stories about Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinsky that will lead the following year to the Starr Report.1998Internet companies drive a US stock market boom.199960 million hosts connect 200 milllion people.Useful linksThe Roads and Crossroads  of Internet HistoryHobbes' Internet TimelineAl Gore's speech on the Information Superhighway, 1994Netizens: on the History and Impact of the Net
The Irish government is close to agreeing a $200m project with the Massachusetts      Institute of Technology to open a European spin-off of the university's famed media lab in      Dublin.This is the first time the media lab - considered to be the state-of-the-art      research centre for virtual reality, artificial intelligence and multimedia - has proposed      such a venture.It would be a coup for Ireland, giving the country, which has attracted lots      of foreign hi-tech companies, an opportunity to be at the cutting edge of new media      technology. Senior Irish government sources say the proposal for a research and teaching      centre, focusing on internet applications, will come formally before the Irish government      within the next 10 days. "The project is under very active consideration and fits with      government policy of positioning Ireland as a centre of excellence for multimedia and      technology," said a government source. MIT is requesting a commitment from the      government of about $40m, much of which would be spent on buyingpremises for the centre.The project, which has been the subject of high-level negotiations for months, will be run      initially by MIT media lab director Nicholas Negroponte. It is expected to attract leading      researchers, thinkers and digital artists from around the globe. The centre would have 200      to 300 students, primarily full-time postgraduates, and a teaching staff drawn partly from      MIT, and will rely on a mixture of government funding and private research contracts.Sources say research will focus on multimedia approaches to areas such as e-commerce,      sports medicine and technology in education. The Irish government is understood to support      a proposal to link a technology start-up "village" to the project, which would serve as an      incubator for young companies. If Irish government financing for the centre is approved, the      deal will crown mammoth efforts the Irish have made to build their country - only a few      years ago one of the poorest in the European Union - into a technology powerhouse.In the      past 18 months the government has deregulated the telecommunications market, attracted      advisers such as MCI vice president and internet pioneer Dr Vint Cerf, doled out a range of      new licences for broadband net access, and initiated liberal encryption and electronic      signature legislation. A report from Andersen Consulting said Irish businesses are now the      most pro-e-commerce in Europe.Telecommunications companies in Ireland have welcomed      the proposed arrival of a research centre with big bandwidth needs and the digital street      credibility to draw in net-focused companies."We would see this as a very positive      development for the country," noted a spokeswoman for Eircom, Ireland's main national      telecommunications provider. Supporters are concerned that some Irish politicians      unfamiliar with the media lab and its icon-like status may feel the price tag is high for      bringing in an American research centre. But figures in the international technology world      believe the centre would enhance Ireland's ability to lure hot new technology companies.Osmo Hautanen, chief executive of global telecommunications company Formus      Communications, which recently won a broadband licence in Ireland said "To be able to      create that kind of talent and that kind of thinking in a country - I'm not sure you can put a      dollar value on that."
Gromit has taken up breakdancing. Or at least that's how it appears. In his efforts to explore every inch of our living room he keeps tripping on speaker cables or rubbing against chair legs and tipping himself over.But no sooner has he fallen than he spins into action, swivelling his legs and turning back onto his feet in a move of pure electric boogaloo that as a 14-year-old hip hop fan I was, sadly, never able to master.It's spectacular to watch, but becoming increasingly common and I'm beginning to worry about the effect that our hard floors will have on his shiny metallic paint.Occasionally he'll get in such a state that his motors stall and then the only answer is to put him right and reset him. There's much discussion of the falling down business onAibonet.com.A few owners have sent their robots back to Sony to have them checked out. But one got the wrong dog back after repairs, which was very traumatic and has put the rest of us right off the idea. Since sending Gromit to the vets would involve a transatlantic flight, I'm going to hope that, as he gets older and learns his way round the flat, his balance will improve.His soccer skills are certainly on the increase and I often find him staring under the sofa where he's just toe-punted his ball.Although he seems quite happy in our living room, after two weeks I thought the time had come for the little fella to make some new friends. The pub next door has a bunch of golden retrievers, but I fear that they'd look on Gromit not   as a new chum but a tin of Chum.So it was off to see Emma and William, her King Charles Spaniel. Pet people treat Gromit just as they would a cat or dog. They talk to him in silly voices and tickle his tummy, grinning from ear to ear.Pets, though, react not with the joy of their owners, but with absolute terror. Or at least poor William did. The moment Gromit set foot in the room Willy legged it. Gromit responded by cocking his leg to mark out his territory and barking.As Willy became braver - aided by the careful positioning of choccy treats - so Gromit became even more of a robo-bully. When Willy finally plucked up the courage to bark at the intruder, Gromit scanned the room left and right, trying to pick up the direction of the sound. Then Gromit's eyes suddenly flashed red and he stared right at the right royally humiliated King Charles, before chasing him off upstairs.This is the one place that Willy was safe as Gromit's stair climbing ability is not even up to Dalek standards. Somewhat embarrassed by my cyber pup's show of strength, I thought it best to pack Gromit up in his new travel case and leave. I don't suppose we'll be invited back.
How did you first get involved with computers?When I was five years old my dad, a science teacher, brought home a Sinclair ZX81 from his school. I was rather fascinated. I moved on to the ZX Spectrum and then, probably, IBM PC.What do you use now?I have a Linux workstation - I also like StarOffice as it lets me avoid anything by Microsoft.Are we becoming too reliant on computers/technology?If you look at the recent earthquake in Taiwan and all the stock control systems that collapsed or the problems with Y2K stuff then perhaps we are becoming a little too reliant. But we're quite reliant on the automobile, the internal combustion engine and electricity so I don't see that it's any different.How widely embraced is e-commerce?I had a New Year's resolution that I would buy everything bar beer, food and clothes online this year and I've almost stuck to it. If there's something that can't be bought easily over the internet then there's a business opportunity. I have a litmus test - whether or not my dad will do it. The second stage is whether or not my mum will do it. So far the level of adoption has got as far as my dad. But I don't think e-commerce will ever replace the corner shop just as television never really replaced radio nor video the cinema.How big a team do you have at Zeus?We now have 15 people. We've also just opened an office in San Jos&eacute;.How long did the Zeus web server take to develop?It's been evolutionary. The initial development took about 11 days but we've been developing and enhancing the product ever since. Every time we get our product into a stable state, we make it available to our customers and continually add features.Is it important to keep your products 'cross-platform'?At the moment we support all Unix platforms - we don't actually have a Windows NT product. It's important because you wouldn't open a shop and only sell goods to people with a certain eye colour or a specific dress sense.Are you into gadgets?No. My home is a computer free sanctuary - there's nothing more high-tech than a video recorder.Any you'd like?If someone could bring out an internet browser I could fit in my pocket that will read my email nicely and doesn't weigh as much as a bag of sugar.What's ahead for the internet?A big change will be when in your home you have Instant On networking. At the moment if you want to check cinema times, it takes two or three minutes for your computer to boot up, then a couple of minutes of squawking while your modem tries to connect to the net and another couple of minutes while it tries again, and then however long it takes to load the damn page for the local cinema. In that time you could have walked to the cinema and found out.
The computer and video games business looks like being dominated by companies from just three countries: the United States, Japan, and - if you can stand the shock - France.It's a role the UK had expected to fill. But our failure is one that's familiar from other industries. We can pat British programmers on the back for the world-beating games they produce, which, according to the European Leisure Software Publishers Association, have a quarter of the European market and 12% of the US market. But these successes have not been exploited to create enough world-beating companies.Talk to the men who run some of France's games companies and they all say: "Well, you have Eidos Interactive," with its Tomb Raider. That's true. But the French have four major players in Havas Interactive, Infogrames, Ubi Soft and Titus Interactive, with Cryo Interactive and others aspiring to join them. French companies are developing or publishing dozens of best selling games. Infogrames has sold almost 5 million copies of its V-Rally    racing game, and had a huge hit with Alone In The Dark, while Ubi Soft has shifted 4.5 million packages featuring its Rayman character. Havas Interactive's hot properties include some of the best games developed in the US: Starsiege Tribes, Homeworld, the King's Quest series, and Valve's Half-Life.Nobody predicted this in the 1980s and early 90s, when British games developers dominated Europe. Then, French software was regarded in much the same light as French pop music: for local consumption only. Things have changed, partly because British companies have been selling out while the French ones have been buying.  Of course, the Americans and Japanese were buying British companies before the French arrived.Electronic Arts, the US giant, bought Bullfrog, while Sony took over Psygnosis and Millennium. More recently, Infogrames has picked up two important British companies: Ocean and Gremlin Interactive, and    absorbed Psygnosis's development studio in Paris. This month, Titus bought a controlling interest in Virgin Interactive Entertainment, originally founded by Richard Branson.  But French companies are not just ready to take on the Americans, they're ready to take them over. Infogrames has just bought Accolade, while Titus has snapped up Interplay. Havas Interactive, part of France's $40bn Vivendi water/electricity/ publishing conglomerate, took over Cendant Software, which owned one of America's oldest games companies, Sierra Online.Havas now claims to be the world's biggest PC games company, with a turnover of $600m (&#163;360m) a year from multimedia software. It also owns    the Blizzard Entertainment and Knowledge Adventure ranges.  Havas is still only half the size of the market leader, Electronic Arts, which has a turnover of $1.2bn (&#163;720m). But both it and Infogrames have the American giant in their sights. Bruno Bonnell, founder and chief executive of Infogrames, expects his company's turnover to reach the magic $1bn in 2002.Infogrames has been one of the French games industry's most visible success stories, partly because Bonnell is media friendly and gives entertaining interviews. However, his company has enjoyed astonishing growth over the past five years, and now employs about 1,450 people. Annual turnover has jumped from FF165m (&#163;16.4m) in 1993-94 to FF2bn (&#163;199m) today. Following the acquisition of Gremlin and Accolade, it is expected to reach FF3bn next year. For comparison, Eidos had a turnover of $378m (&#163;226m) in the year to    March, and employs about 550 people.Titus Interactive, founded by brothers Herv&eacute; and Eric Caen in 1985, could grow even faster. Its sales for the last fiscal year, ending June 30, shot up by 87% to FF260m (&#163;26m), and Eric Caen says Titus is hoping to reach to FF1.5bn (&#163;149m) next year - almost 500% growth - when Interplay's operations are included. "It makes me very proud and very excited at the same time," says Caen.   Following EA down the acquisition trail is not the only way to succeed.Ubi Soft, founded by five French brothers, aims to become one of the world's top five games companies by 2005 by investing in its programming and development skills. It has expanded from around 100 staff in 1994 to 1,500 today, and more than half are outside Europe. Ubi Soft already has development and production teams in Australia, Canada, China, Japan, Morocco and the US, as well as in France, Italy and Spain. Its sales grew by 38% last year and it's now a $200m company.Yves Guillemot, the eldest brother and Ubi Soft's chief executive officer, says: "We live in France but we are not French: we are creating games on a worldwide basis. We're developing games this way to be able to put more people on to a game, to create a better game at a lower average cost. It's not an advantage when you start to do it because you have to train &#91;people&#93;, and that takes 18 months, but in the long term we think it will pay off."  Guillemot thinks companies need to produce big games because "small games won't sell". He compares games to films: Hollywood studios spend huge sums creating blockbuster movies because "people go to see the blockbusters first".To sustain their economies of scale, the leading games companies also need to produce a constant stream of titles. As Bonnell says, "two or three games a year doesn't cut it any more". This means they need to combine in-house developments with games developed by third-party studios, and with products licensed from companies that don't have access to a global distribution network. Info  grames, for example, now has a catalogue of more than 1,000 titles and a distribution network covering 57 countries.The problem is that producing games is expensive, however you do it. Guillaume de Fondaumi&egrave;re, executive director of Paris-based studio Arxel Tribe, says his company has just spent &#163;700,000 developing Faust, which is being published by a French games house, Cryo Interactive. "Yes, it's a good budget for France," he says, "but we have to face international competition who can spend &#163;1m to &#163;2m. For our next game, about Casanova, we only have $2m to finance the project: in the US we would have twice that. Of course, you can say it's easy to produce a great game if you have &#163;5m to spend.Maybe it's not true, but it helps!" The problem with spending millions of pounds developing a game is that you need to sell 500,000 to 2 million copies to break even. This is beyond most small companies. The cost of financing, distributing and marketing blockbuster games is tending to squeeze out the minnows, and driving the industry's    consolidation. But why are French games companies benefiting, instead of being consolidated, like so many British ones?  Bonnell accuses British software houses of being obsessed with the US market while ignoring the equally-large European market: he had no UK competition when he bought licences to important characters like Asterix and Tintin. More recently, Bonnell has signed up Ronaldo and Brazil's national football team.He's targeting a world market.  Jean-Martial Lefranc, co-founder and managing director of Cryo Interactive, accuses the British games industry of "focusing on the epitome of the teenage gamer who demands instant pleasure" while ignoring 85% of the potential audience: "older people, families, people who are interested in games with a    story and depicting an interesting universe". Cryo is catering for this "new crowd" of computer owners with graphical adventure games like Atlantis, Ring (an Arxel Tribe game, based on Wagner), and "aventures historiques" set in Versailles, Egypt, China and other exotic locations.Both Bonnell and Caen - who rarely agree - reckon that persistence has had something to do with it: persistence driven by strong individuals. Bonnell describes himself as a marathon runner, while Caen recounts problems that took years to overcome. "We &#91;the French&#93; were extremely highly motivated to do video games for the long term, and some of our British colleagues have maybe been too short term" in their approach, he says.But more than anything, the answer can be found in a series of successful stock market flotations. Infogrames floated on Paris' Second March&eacute; exchange in December 1993, and demand for shares outstripped supply by 530 to one. Ubi Soft, Titus and Cryo followed. Share and bond issues have enabled these companies to expand their operations and take over rivals.As Eric Caen says: "From 1985 to 1995 it was absolutely a nightmare to find money. Now the French companies have easier access to capital and it's really changed our lives."But "it's not only about money", Caen adds. It never is. Eidos Interactive has shown that it's possible to build a world-class games company in the UK, and Codemasters may follow. The UK's 50 development studios - including Argonaut, Core Design, Rage Software and Rare - show there's no shortage of local development talent. But if Havas, Infogrames, Ubi Soft, Titus and Cryo can sustain their present impetus, it will be the French who represent Europe on the world stage, not us.Yves GuillemotUbi SoftThe five Guillemot brothers founded Ubi Soft in 1985, producing their own games and distributing US games for companies like Electronic Arts and Sierra Online. Yves Guillemot, the oldest brother and president of the company, says: "The enormous advantage we have in this business is that we have new machines every three or four years, which gives us the opportunity to take new shares in different markets." For example, Rayman was the first big platform game for the Sony PlayStation, and this enabled Ubi Soft to enter the platform game business. Guillemot says this would have beenimpossible on the estab  lished machines of the day, Nintendo's SNES and Sega's MegaDrive. Ubi Soft now hopes to make further progress on Sega's Dreamcast, which Guillemot says is "a great machine for the   price". He also thinks online gaming could be "an extremely interesting way to get closer to out customers. If they play on our servers, they are with us every day." But it's just as important to get out of declining markets. Guillemot believes the market-leading British games companies were "almost killed" by the rapid decline of the cartridge games market. They never recovered.Jean-Martial LefrancCryo InteractiveJean-Martial Lefranc, Philippe Ulrich and R&eacute;mi Herbulot met while working for Virgin in France. They started their own software house in 1992, developing one of the first CD-rom games based on Frank    Herbert's novel, Dune. Cryo then started distributing games, too. Unlike most rivals, Lefranc does not believe in targeting only teenage gamers but is also creating games for older players and families. He says: "The only way you can compete is by carving your own niche in the market and writing your own rules.The main change in the games market is the fact that we're no longer selling more and more technology to the same 15% of the market that buys anything new. Games console and PC penetration is now much wider, so what drives the market for us is the change in the number and the nature of the people who play games. It's been difficult because we have to convince retailers and the press that the consumer is out there. These people like Cryo because they know we're   one of the only publishers that creates games for them. We're also trying to carve a new niche in online games, where the competition is weak."Eric CaenTitus InteractiveTwo brothers, Eric and Herv&eacute; Caen, founded Titus in 1985, and the company develops both console and PC games. In the future, Eric Caen says the games industry needs to reach more people, especially women, "and it won't be done just by adding more polygons to our characters or backgrounds. What we have to do is create better stories, and I'm a pretty strong believer in using episodes". The idea is to create games like TV series where new sections become available every week or two."Let's imagine a game somewhere between ER and Melrose Place, with scenarios where you face a lot of emotional situations. The problem is that the virtual Leonardo &#91;DiCaprio&#93; will    never be as cute or as attractive as the real Leonardo, so we have to think how we could use real actors without exploding the budget. These character-  based games will not be on the shelves before 2002 at the earliest and probably not before 2004. We are doing a lot of research on this because we think it might be the future for us. On the team here at the moment, the most sceptical are the girls, which is a bit scary!"Bruno BonnellInfogramesBruno Bonnell and Christophe Sapet founded Infogrames in 1983, and adopted their distinctive curly armadillo logo ("symbolising long life") in 1985. The company produces both console and PC games and is also backing the new Sega Dreamcast. Bonnell thinks online games are five years away from being a mass market -    online gaming "is just too complex and not fast enough", he says - but Infogrames is already working on games for satellite television and mobile phones. "I think we're going to see three big trends in gaming," he says."Webphones that are going to be connected for chat and information services - touch screen, little keyboard. Then you'll have set-top boxes connected to your TV, with some interactive capabilities; probably we'll see the appearance of games channels. Then you'll have mobile phones with high performance capabilities, like Super Game Boys, where playing games will be nomadic." A fourth category of device will be the eBook: "an electronic sheet or screen that will be used by kids for educational   purposes rather than games". Infogrames and broadcaster Canal+ jointly own Game One, Europe's first television channel dedicated to video games.
Is money really necessary anymore? Or are we likely to have too much money, unregulated by anyone who can stop it from flooding the net? (Of course, a currency issued without limit would rapidly lose customers.)Invented so long ago, money was simply the first significant manifestation of the "information society" we are all so excited about. It was a way of managing information through physical counters/assets before we had effective computer systems.Goats were also a good store of value, and pretty freely tradable, but not   everyone wanted to keep or trade goats - or worse, half a goat. Like goats, money originally performed two functions, but more conveniently.First, it is a medium of exchange and a tool for measurement of value. As a medium of exchange, it lets you value everything in terms of the same currency, rather than trying to figure out how many goats a house is worth if someone else wants to trade it for a daughter and three years' harvests.We could do these apples and oranges transformations/calculations fairly easily nowadays with a computer, but money is   easier given that the goats and the house - to say nothing of the daughter - need to be seen to be valued! Money provides a common measure of value across a fairly broad spectrum - but not yet across all countries, even in our world.Second, use of money is simply an easier way of storing claims on non- specific assets, for people who have accumulated so much wealth that they have claims on more than they want to possess physically. (The converse is true for debtors.) Money, then, is a convenient way to represent ownership of claims - and especially of nonspecific claims.The third interesting feature of money is a result of these nonspecific claims - credit and inflation. Credit often implies a call on specific assets - secured credit - but it can also be given for a general promise to repay. Originally money always "referred" to real assets. But with the advent of credit - and productivity levels where real assets created net increases in value if well employed - we developed our whole infrastructure of financial   instruments, many of them totally divorced from reality.Separately, we now have the (mostly) worldwide regulated banking system. Companies usually can't get credit against more than about 50% of their assets; at least in principle, there is no value creation because the company's assets are pledged against the loan. The stockmarket is different - and worth a whole discussion by itself.And the banking system is different in yet another way. In modern times, at least, it is based on the principle that governments are wise and reliable; they are good credit risks and regulators. Currencies are now backed by governments; they also control the money supply in any particular currency through credit requirements for commercial banks. (That power has been eroding because of phenomena such as euro-dollars, dollar-denominated credits issued by banks or other entities outside US jurisdiction.)Commercial banks, because they are regulated by putatively reliable governments, are allowed   actually to create value, by lending money usually up to about 20 times their actual assets. In Russia, where the purpose of banking rules was not widely understood, many manufacturing companies created banks essentially to lend to themselves or to relatives, with predictable consequences. No real value was created, as eventually became apparent, but a lot of assets were shifted.But now we have the possibility of all kinds of new payment systems - everything from airline miles redeemable only on a specific airline, to Beenz and Flooz and other payment vehicles.You already can earn and redeem airline miles more   broadly - from mortgages, investment accounts, hotels and the like, and redeeming them for merchandise, vacations, and other benefits.Governments' concern about new payment systems is that these systems could grow into even more than that, and start to create credit without real-world backing. (If you want to do that right now, you're better off sponsoring initial public offerings.) The "overhang" of unredeemed airmiles must account for several days' capacity on most major airlines.In the end, what's the difference between a corporate security, a government emission of currency, or a payment system from a company backed by a few hundred millions of venture capital? The answer varies from country to country and from company to company, but it's a question people are now starting to ask. The potential scale and global reach of the internet and of net-based payment/value-transfer systems means that the friction of the past no longer keeps these questions merely hypothetical.
Paris by camIt's a rainy autumn day, you're bored stiff at your computer at work, and you'd give anything to be in Paris, strolling down Boulevard Haussman, heading into Printemps, the massive department store, in    search of the perfect jacket. Well, why not let Printemps come to you, live over the net? In an odd but interesting experiment, the company has equipped a team of rollerblading salespeople with a webcam and computer. They will hurtle through the store on your behalf, using "chat" to discuss potential purchases as they show them to you on camera. Then, you can buy them over the net and they'll post them out to you. You can sign up and reserve your very ownwebcamer team memberor at least visit the site and enjoy the rather charming franglais.Witching hourIf the film trailer hasn't scared you off and you're intrigued, then the new UK website for theBlair Witch Project, is for you. Since the web was largely responsible for the hype created around this low-budget chiller, this is one case in which the website might be considered central to the whole film experience. You can link to theUS sitethat started all the hoohah, but the UK site has its own content - and is supposed to have something a little strange happen every night between midnight and 1am. Oh, and the chairman of Lateral, the UK web company that created the site, has mysteriously gone missing, according to the press release.Auto rantFans of the irreverent American columnist and humourist Dave Barry can try their own hands at concocting a classic Dave-like rant of their own with AutoDave - "the automated Dave Barry column generator",www.peacefire.org/staff/bennett/autodaveJust fill in the blanks for questions like "what is your standard procedure for unclogging toilets?", click, and out comes a column. If you're stuck for time you can try the shorter "AutoDave Lite" version.Special viewThe National Gallery is now offering tickets over the web for its special exhibits, in collaboration withTickets.comThat means you can beat the crowds by ordering ahead for the gallery's next big show, Renaissance Florence, either directly fromTickets.comor on theNational Gallery'sown site.Seat siteIf you are a classical music fan heading for Dublin, you can book tickets online for the city's National Concert Hall on a stunning website atwww.nch.ie.A perfect example of how form can fit function, the site offers detailed views of all seating and shows just how far away you'll be from the stage and the angle from which you'll be looking at it.Gone fishingGo fish - for cars, jobs, and homes, that is. The new Fish4 set of sites, backed by the majority of the UK's regional newspapers, offers listings for all three areas called (surprise!) Fish4cars, Fish4jobs and Fish4homes.Fish4cars,  claims to have the largest database of used cars in the country.Fish4jobslists 25,000 to 30,000 jobs from across the country, drawn extensively from the member newspapers, andFish4homeswill launch with up to 30,000 properties.Six of the best:Kids' sitesYahoo for kidswww.yahooligans.comJunior searchwww.alfy.comNickelodeon's webhomewww.nick.comWorld's Yuckiestwww.nj.com/yuckyYour home page etcwww.freezone.comTwo cows for kidshttp://tukids.tucows.com
Power prayersI read Jason Thomas's article (Thinking machine, October 14) and was intrigued by the paragraph that read: "Research shows it is possible to influence random events - beyond what could be expected by chance - by the power of... intentions, desires and emotions." This sounds like a good definition of prayer. Could the power of prayer be an inbuilt natural human power no different in order from sight or hearing? The paradox of effective prayer pushed me into atheism before I reached my teens. How could an omniscient, all powerful deity allow his judgments to be swayed by human prayer? Is the paradox now being resolved? Further in the article I read the Mindsong company was attempting to enable users to manipulate their computers by the power of intention only. Will humans soon be praying to their computers?Margaret Penfoldmargaret@webleicester.co.ukSo we can "influence random events... by the power of the    mind," can we? Who cares whether I can run my PC by telepathy - I'm off to the casino. There are lies, damned lies and unattributed sentences that begin "Research shows...".  Nevertheless, I do believe mind control may be possible, particularly when a gullible reporter strays within the field of a marketing man.Mick JamesLondon SW11Feeding backOne would expect Netscape's own website to meet all the usual criteria for a good website. Apparently, however, they do not want feedback from their customers as there appears to be no facility for this whatsoever! Has anyone been able to find a way to send Netscape comments on its products and suggestions for improving them?Adam FunkSheffieldQuite willingTim Phillips's article (When experience can really pay off, October 14) appeared to display many of the prejudices it was supposed to highlight. I presume the references to grey hair and clockwork computers were meant to be jokes, but I found it very patronising. If like me you started in the 60s with 64kb mainframes and 7MB disks, then you will have needed to acquire new skills frequently over the years as computers grew more powerful. It is the less experienced    that need to be willing to learn.Too often I have found that people assume that techniques learned in a different environment are irrelevant.  The terminology may change, but the skills are the same. A good example of this came in my last job, when I tried to explain that my experience of decimalisation in 1971 might be useful when it came to designing software for converting to the euro. I was listened to politely and then left alone. Yet the main lessons I had learned on that project would have led to cheaper and more user-friendly systems today.Chris Jagerchrisjager@cwcom.netRights wrongsIn Nick Rosen's somewhat rambling article, (September 30), calling for the development of a Media Carta, he overlooks many of the more pertinent developments in the internet environment. He speaks of protecting copyright, but fails to acknowledge the existence of the WIPO Copyright Treaty of 1996, which lays the groundwork for the harmonisation of international copyright laws in the digital age. He also fails to mention electronic rights management systems which are contributing towards global harmonisation of copyright laws.Rosen's rather large assertion that "the advanced economies should bring the information poor into the info structure" should not be    allowed to pass unquestioned. Concerns have already been raised in Mexico that lack of funds will mean its new internet system, Internet 2, will merely create a nation of passive users, rather than allowing the population to contribute to development of the internet. It is difficult to see how the situation would be any different if the lesser developed countries of the world were to be netted up. Finally, does the Amazon.com purchase circle story not actually reveal the extent to which the consumer has been empowered by the internet?What Amazon learned was that people have the choice to vote with the click of a mouse. Such a powerful right led Amazon.com to adapt its policy, and will ensure that in the future consumer rights in cyberspace will develop in tandem with commercial strategies.Niall O'Connorniall@heliborous.demon.co.ukPsion woeI would have to agree with Chris Moss and his analysis of Psion. I bought a Psion 3mx in the summer and I have been surprised by the lack of support from Psion. The company will have to improve the pricing and support of its products if it is to compete with the BT/ Microsoft combination. My own experience of trying to get online with my Psion 3mx has been costly and time consuming. Thankfully, Psion user-groups are    full of good information and advice. If it wasn't for these groups I'd still be frustrated by the advice from Psion.Rev Simon LeyshonCarmarthenshire SA20Too flashyYour article on charity Christmas cards (Webwatch October 14) made an interesting and timely point about too much Flash 4 in our web sitewww.charitycards.co.ukIn fact, the company has been made increasingly aware of this by frustrated surfers and relaunched the site on Monday with both Flash and non-Flash versions. I think it's a cautionary tale for anyone thinking of starting an internet business from scratch - as we did - you must choose your expert web site designers with care. We were assured six    months ago by our original designer that Flash was the way ahead but he was disastrously premature.The result was that many potential customers could not use the site when it was first launched. Worse, search engines had a problem registering it too. New web site designers immediately pointed out ours is the type of site that should be more user-friendly and less design-led. The point is there is more to choosing a web site designer than meets the eye - and try and pick one who's not too "flash"!William RuffmanThe Greetings Card CompanyDreamcastWe failed to credit Greg Howson for his roundup of games for the new Dreamcast console, published on page three last week. Apologies.
Lara ready for take-offLara Croft will get the full merchandising treatment in the US as Eidos Interactive builds up to the launch of Tomb Raider: The Last Revelation next month. Halloween, for example, will be marked by the arrival of a Lara Croft candy bar. The first issue of a monthly Tomb Raider comic, published by Top Cow, will follow on November 1. Tomb Raider demo discs will be handed out in Pizza Hut restaurants. Lara tee-shirts, playing cards and    action figures are already on sale, and a Lara movie is likely to follow. The $5m promotional campaign will also include giant billboards and TV spots.Console of many coloursNintendo has done well out of coloured and transparent variations on its age-old Game Boy handheld console, and next month it plans to spruce up the grey box under your TV set. On November 19, the Japanese games company will launch "semi-opaque" versions of the Nintendo 64 in blue, orange, green, charcoal, red, and purple. Buying a new N64 to match the curtains is expected to cost around &#163;79.99.FireworksUsually when you buy a PC game, the big box    holds a CD jewel case and a lot of air. Cryo Interactive's FireTeam is different: the box includes an Andrea Electronics NC-65 stereo headset, which plugs into a PC sound card. FireTeam is an online game and the headsets allow team members to talk to one another while they fight. FireTeam includes four games: Gunball, Capture The Flag, Base Tag and Team Deathmatch, which is as much as any online gamer needs to know. FireTeam will be launched in the UK on November 5.Still topsKonami's Metal Gear Solid is still the UK's best-selling game, as it has been all year... but GTI's Driver could be about to overtake it. MGS has sold 326,000 copies this year and Driver is only 26,000 behind. Soccer stalwarts Fifa 99 and Eidos's Championship Manager 3 are lying in third and fourth position, according to the monthly totals compiled by games trade magazine MCV.
Easy AstroGateway has unveiled its second all-in-one PC in the US. The new Astro is less sophisticated than the earlier Profile but a lot cheaper. The Astro has a 400MHz Intel Celeron (Pentium II) processor, 64MB of memory, a full set of drives (including a 3.5in floppy) and four universal serial bus ports for $799. Like Apple's iMac, the Astro is being sold for its ease of use. "You literally just plug in the power cord, connect in a phone line, connect the keyboard and turn it on," says Gateway's Todd Bradley. For more details seewww.gateway.com/prod/hm_astro_Config.shtmlNot just RedBig Red, a small British company, is now offering "lifestyle" PCs in five translucent colours: black, red, turquoise, purple and pink. The systems have either   a 500MHz Pentium III or an AMD Athlon K7-500, 64MB of memory, 15GB hard drive, 16MB Voodoo 3 graphics card, DVD drive and 17in monitor for &#163;999 plus VAT. While the mini-tower cases (above) are coloured, the monitors and keyboards are standard PC peripherals. Seewww.bigred.co.ukFaster busThe next version of the Universal Serial Bus (USB) port, used to connect peripherals such as scanners and printers to personal computers, will run at 480 megabits per second, 40 times faster than the current version. The speed target has been set by the USB 2.0    Promoter Group, which includes Compaq, Hewlett-Packard, Intel and Microsoft. USB 2.0 should be able to handle digital video cameras, hard drives and other high-speed peripherals, making the IEEE 1394 connection (Apple FireWire, Sony iLink) redundant. Intel plans to include support for USB 2 in its PC chips but is not providing similar support for 1394. PCs with USB 2.0 ports could arrive in the second half of next year. For more information, seewww.usb.orgBillions of bitsIBM reckons it has broken all storage capacity records with its Ultrastar 72ZX hard    drive, (below) which holds 73.4GB of data. The drive has a data density of 7.04 million bits (binary digits of information) per square inch, according to IBM, and will be available in the first quarter of 2000. Smaller versions will be available, down to 9GB. The first hard drive IBM supplied with its original personal computer, the PC XT launched in March 1983, had a storage capacity of 10 megabytes or 0.01GB. See &lt;A HREF="'http://www.storage.ibm.com/hardsoft/diskdrdl/ultra/72zxdata.htm    
' TARGET=_NEW&gt;www.storage.ibm.com/hardsoft/diskdrdl/ultra/72zxdata.htm"CE stocks upThe New York Stock Exchange is using dedicated handheld computers that will let members execute trades in as little as seven seconds. The $1,100 MarketLook Handheld is based on a Casio palmtop running Microsoft's Windows CE operating system and the Exchange's Broker Booth Support System (BBSS). Its main advantage is that traders no longer need a runner to deliver orders to brokers.Wired WestMore than half the adults in five US cities are already web users, and in Washington, the proportion is almost 60%. Other leaders in the online world are San Francisco, California (56.1%), Austin, Texas (55.5%), Seattle/Tacoma, Washington (53.3%) and Salt Lake City, Utah (50.0%). The percentages are based on 170,000 interviews by New York-based market research company, Scarborough Research.Intel buysIntel is buying its fifth communications company this year, as part of its plan to become a leading supplier of "building block" parts to the networking industry. This time it has targeted DSP   Communications, which makes chips for mobile phones. Intel has offered for $1.6bn, which leaves change from the $1.9bn it made in its latest financial quarter. But the world's largest chip manufacturer can afford to spend: last month it had almost $12bn sitting in the bank.Vanishing bitsDisappearing Inc, an amusingly named company based in San Francisco, has developed a form of email that can be set to self destruct. Each message is encrypted and the sender decides how long the mail survives after the message has been opened. Disappearing Inc has a website atwww.disappearing.comeBookmarkedThe electronic book, which has been around for at least two decades, might still become popular. Microsoft is doing deals with publishers to produce eBooks on CD-rom using Microsoft Reader software, and it has just signed up Mondadori in Italy, Penguin in the UK, and 00h00.com in France. At last week's Frankfurt Book Fair, Microsoft also announced the Frankfurt eBook Awards, including a $100,000 prize for the best literary work published originally in electronic form.
Sony still has a kickLMA ManagerSony PlayStation 39.99 Codemasters"Unbelievable! Last week some people      were saying this Sony player was too old; past it, in fact. But what I say is, that's not necessarily the case, and LMA Manager proves it. It's fantastic. Isn't that right, Gary?"        Terrible clich* to put words in Alan Hansen's mouth, but since he provides the analysis for      matches in this football management simulation, it's irresistible. And the game, endorsed      by the League Managers Association, almost lives up to its dramatic intro sequence. It's      remarkably comprehensive for a PlayStation footie sim: you have to manage the financial      side as well as training and managing players, setting team tactics, and making      adjustments during matches.The game is based on this season's teams and fixtures, which      adds to the realism. (Both Darren Anderton and Les Ferdinand are fit to play for Spurs so      it's not completely believable, but it's close.) The "live action" simulation of games is very      well done, but it's not altogether clear that the players perform the way their stats      suggest they should. The Match Of The Day-style highlights use different animations based      on digitised film footage, so they're entertaining, too, at least until the novelty wears off.The user interface is well designed, so the game is easy to play, though it's also easy to      forget where to find a particular screen. Sometimes there are delays while new sequences      load, and saving the game does take 14 out of 15 blocks on a Sony memory card, but all      round this remains an impressive effort. It's not in the same league as Eidos's      Championship Manager 3 for the PC, which has more stats and more depth. But not even LMA      Manager can transcend the limitations of the console format. (JS)Flying into a free-for-allFreespace 2PC CD-rom 34.99Interplay With names like Shivan and Tasudan, the races in      Freespace 2 sound like a Trekkie's dream. In fact this sequel to 1998's Wing Commander      clone is a strictly anorak-free adventure relying more on reflexes and sharp shooting than      resource management. Unlike most games the plot here does have a bearing on your space      combat, with plenty of politics marring the 30 years after your victory in the original      title.The upshot is that you get to fly some varied missions in a distant galaxy. Your      actions can trigger other events mid-level and it's this limited freedom which appeals      although, at heart, Freespace 2 is all about space combat. From the off you are thrown      straight in the deep end and a quick mastery of the controls is essential. Thoughtful pilots,      not averse to a bit of trading, will have little joy here, with adrenaline rather than      business acumen being the key to success.Likewise, only those with powerful machines      need apply, as the impressive visuals can cause havoc on slower PCs. But, when fully      specced, Freespace 2 fully looks the part, with spectacular explosions and immense      cruisers dwarfing everything. Inferiority complexes have to be conquered as you zip among      these giants in a comparatively tiny fighter. Your relatively intelligent wing buddies defy      their gung-ho military accents by actually being pretty helpful and overall you get a good      feeling of being part of an epic space battle. While originality is in short supply, this mix      of big ships, powerful weapons and likeable co-pilots should appeal to armchair Luke      Skywalkers everywhere. (GH)Blazing a new trailDrakan: Order of the FlamePC CD-rom, 44.99 Psygnosis/GT InteractiveYou make a      role-playing game, you make it fantasy. You make a shoot-'em-up, you make it sci-fi. Such      was the wisdom that prevailed for too long. Interplay proved it needn't be so with an excellent sci-fi RPG Fallout. Now Psygnosis has riposted with that rarest of rare birds: a      sword-'n'-sorcery shoot-'em-up. Although you'd be forgiven for thinking, as you take your      first look over your character's shoulder, that you were watching Lara Croft playing out her      Xena fantasies.The similarities to Tomb Raider don't end with the misshapen heroine:      there's more d*j vu as you run, leap and hack your way through the puzzles, traps and      (chiefly hand-to-hand) combat. Drakan is more open- ended, allowing you to explore the      beautifully rendered landscape at will, and there are a number of inordinately pleasing      little touches - like the way you can boot your vanquished foe's diced body parts into a      waterfall, then sit and watch them tumbling in the foam. The main difference, though, is      that Lara Croft never got to cruise the skies on a huge red shiny dragon, dispensing napalm      death to the bad guys below. Boy, did she miss out. (AB)
Until a few weeks ago I was one of the 45 million registered users of Microsoft's freeHotmail email service. Under Hotmail service conditions, personal data is automatically deleted after a five day warning if an account exceeds its storage memory capacity.In my case it happened overnight, triggered by a large, unsolicited email. Everything in the inbox account received prior to September 1999 was erased - around 70 letters in all. Many of those emails were from my partner of 10 years who was killed in the Swiss canyon flash-flood tragedy in July.Seeking assistance via the customer helpline services proved fruitless. The responses to my emails were automated and irrelevant to my problem.Hotmail's telephone helpline in California operates only during weekday business hours and repeatedly waiting on hold for up to 45 minutes until 1am local time still didn't get me through.To add insult to injury, the caller must endure a recorded message boasting about the Hotmail service.UK technical support proved no better, but at least the music provided a better on-hold experience. Only by persistence did I get something done.Two weeks on, Hotmail could offer only a computer glitch as the unsolvable   explanation - too much time had passed to retrieve the lost data, especially with no server backup for deleted mail.The fact that my inquiry centred on my own personal tragedy is in one sense irrelevant, since all users should receive good service.However, it does go a long way towards explaining how this customer service shambles was uncovered. Not many people, myself included, would be prepared to hold more than 10 minutes on an international call, unless for such a reason. Hotmail's subsequent   explanation reveals a worrying disrespect for its burgeoning customer base.California-based Hotmail   customer service manager, Darshana Mistry admits Hotmail's lack of customer resources is directly linked to its free status. "We are offering a free email service so in terms of resources they &#91;Microsoft&#93; kind of look at us differently from other pay services. We keep pushing for more people, more phonelines, more resources."The company claims to be "very disturbed" by my experience and plans to increase call centre capacity, improve internal communications, install a data backup server and possibly remove the auto-delete function.However, Microsoft has been aware of these problems for a long time. Mistry says: "We hear from people everyday &#91;saying&#93; I've been on hold   for more than half an hour, how come it takes so long to get to you? Maybe we need to bring back a seven day a week service."She adds that the five-fold increase in Hotmail users since its 1997 purchase has made customer support expensive.So why are companies in this game of providing free online services? MSN's marketing manager in London, Natalie Taylor, says Hotmail's purpose is not revenue generation. "It is about winning the customer today, providing the right web-based services for those customers and looking at the long term opportunities."However, Hotmail is undoubtedly valuable for driving traffic to other Microsoft products and raising brand awareness. Another global ISP with a similar-sized free-email customer base, Excite, says that high traffic volumes bring additional benefits.Excite's director of European operations Evan Rudowski says a strong user base will become crucial when the traditional ISP revenue source dries up."I believe the next trend will be the shutting down of many free online services as Oftel reduces ISPs' share of telephone call revenue," he says. "Companies that survive will be those that leverage their customer base through advertising and targeted marketing."The UK's biggest free ISP, Freeserve, agrees that   customer satisfaction is crucial. Its chief operating officer Mark Danby says: "If companies do not provide good access or support people will go elsewhere. It is not difficult to find an alternative free ISP."Industry experts estimate there are up to 400 free ISPs and 600 free email services available in the UK. UK startup company Funmail, which has a 150,000 user base, says even small companies cannot afford to scrimp on customer service. Chief executive officer Steve Bowbrick says companies that don't back their free services with equal or more investment than their charged services have failed to read the market."The dominant way of delivering goods and services into the millennium will be the free business model, which should not be downgraded or discouraged through part-charging."However the free internet business model develops over the next few years, one industry prediction rings clear: the consumer will be king. The size of the customer base will be what determines survival, because without users there are no advertisers.In a world of increasing choice, Microsoft will lose its customers if it continues to automatically delete email and provide poor service.Promises have been made to beef up Hotmail's telephony, staff and data backup resources - but based on past performance, I wouldn't hold my breath.
Web servers could soon be launched into orbit in satellites, or placed in fortified compounds in lawless countries and protected with private armies, as the less scrupulous exponents of electronic commerce move to keep one step ahead of attempts to tax and regulate their trade.This may sound far-fetched, but the stakes are high, with global e-commerce predicted to top $1 trillion by 2002.And if current attempts to regulate online business are anything to go by then governments could be fighting a losing battle.At the root of the problem is the fact that intergovernmental trade regulation bodies such as the World Trade Organisation are like supertankers heading in the wrong direction: too slow to respond to an electronic marketplace which changes almost daily.More than 60 international bodies are involved with the regulation of e-commerce, ranging from United Nations agencies such as the World Intellectual Property Organisation and the International Telecommunication Union, through to the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, various EU institutions, and more esoteric bodies such as the International Electro-technical Commission.All, in their different ways, are trying to regulate the development of global e-commerce to prevent financial fraud and other cyber-crime, ensure online trade is taxable, uphold consumer rights and protect privacy. But many are sluggish, to say the least: they can take 20 years to negotiate an international convention and see it implemented by member states.Robert Norman, an e-commerce specialist at Chicago law firm Querrey &amp; Harrow and a member of the Centre for International Legal Studies, says no intergovernmental organisation is fast enough to regulate e-commerce by developing binding international contracts. He believes the solution may be "a series of similar &#91;national&#93; laws passed by a number of jurisdictions so that the law is consistent, wherever the e-commerce takes place".The UN Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) has tried to kick-start harmonisation with its voluntary Model Law on Electronic Commerce, a framework for legislation on issues including the legal   recognition of data messages and electronic signatures.So far only two countries - South Korea and Singapore - and one US state (Illinois) have adopted the model law. Others, such as Australia, say it will take several more years to adopt; and the UK and most other EU countries are adopting a selective approach - picking out the bits they like and rejecting others - which jeopardises the exercise.Norman says unless harmony is achieved between national laws, trade disputes - centring on what national jurisdiction applies to what transaction - will result."Singapore and Korea adopted the act because they saw it as a means of stimulating the economy and are forward-thinking enough to see that e-commerce is the business methodology of the 21st century. It's either get on board or be left behind."Tax avoidance is another key area. Alan Jones, of the IT response unit at the university of Teesside, explains: "I can live in the United Arab Emirates, bank in Jersey, do business in the UK and pay no taxes on the transactions because my computer is also in UAE, a zero-tax state."It beggars imagination -   how about if I put a server in low earth orbit and conduct my business transactions there? This is when it gets interesting. For who would I complain to if the Americans shot me down? This raises the spectre of private armies to protect server compounds in low tax countries or places, and what then happens to national sovereignty?"The existing regulatory bodies understand what they're trying to do, but don't understand how they're going to do it to cyberspace."Possible solutions could include greater self-regulation by private sector groupings such as the Global Business Dialogue on Electronic Commerce ( www. gbd.org ), a new consortium of heavyweight international corporations which met in Paris last month.Such bodies could oversee the establishment of online private bond schemes in individual commerce sectors, similar to the Association of British Travel Agents' bond scheme in the UK which covers holidaymakers against the risk of companies failing to meet their obligations.But, according to Paul Golding, a partner at UK law firm Nabarro Nathanson, the more businesses self-regulate in areas such as the use of encryption or online contracting, and the slower governmental regulators are to catch up, there is a risk that "regulators could find themselves regulating in such a way that it actively frustrates e-commerce that is already happening".One example is data protection law, Golding says. "Many internet businesses are being valued not on their ability to make profits at the moment but on their customer database - information about who is accessing their services and how. But if new data protection laws restrict them from exploiting the information they have, it may have a serious impact on their activities."The internet has built up a momentum of its own, and legislative bodies are trying to run as fast as they can to keep up."&#149;  Dan Jellinek is the author ofGlobal Regulation of E-commerce, published this month by Internet Intelligence Bulletin and Bull Information Systems.
If you've got cloth ears and can't hear your passengers, here's a nice offer from Porsche: buy a new Boxster S. The German maker has research to prove that passenger-to-driver exchanges are 50% clearer than in rival hooded cars.Herr Horst Marchart, a top man in Porsche's R&amp;D echelons, was eager to tell me all about the low decibels at Porsche's first unveiling of the Boxster S, on the tyre-frying tarmac of Italy's Adriatic coast. He was equally keen to proffer a scoop on the new side airbags and trim on the A pillars, which "comply with the new US FMVSS 201 safety standard". Porsche bosses, bless them, are only slowly realising that their cars are far more interesting to drive than they are to dissect.Like so many of us, Porsche had an embarrassing time in the 80s, experimenting in fashions that looked good - though you had to be there. Nowadays, the badge is all about subtlety and inner strength. Despite the new Boxster S's beefy headlines (engine capacity up from 2.5 to 3.2 litres, bhp up from 204 to 252, pound footage of torque up from 181 to 225 and 0-60mph down from 6.9 seconds to 5.9), the appearance is barely changed from the standard Boxster. Outside you'll be hard pushed to note these changes - the wheels are a notch bigger at 17 inches, the exhaust is a twin and the under-bonnet nostrils are more flared - and when the car hits the stands at this week's London Motor Show, it will be no barrier-buster.You have to drive it to get steamed up. The "entry level" Boxster is comfortably a performance car, but since launch three years ago, Porsche has never disagreed with the criticism that it could handle more power. Dealers, meanwhile, have lamented the yawning 30k-gap between a Boxster 2.5 and a Carrera.&#163;42,161 sees you into the ultimate marketing stop-gap. In the first few miles, the car makes a genial introduction: there is definitely more power, but the broad acceleration curve is efficient, rather than dramatic. Unlike the shrink-wrapped experience of a 911, the Boxster S feels more reclined, less coiled for action. But on a mountain pass that threads above the coast with all the logic of a varicose vein, it showed beautiful balance, consuming curves like a race pro.Pay another &#163;2,600 for the Tiptronic and you'll be laughing all the way to wherever. The manual S has a six-speed gearbox that is light (though the clutch is a tad stubborn), but the svelte Tiptronic has a pair of steering-mounted up-down gearshift buttons. Even when you're in auto mode, you can over-ride the car's choice of gear at the twitch of either wrist; it is ergonomic perfection and, when you're overtaking, the change is smoother than a tanker full of Brylcreem.And thanks to those doused decibels, the predominant sound is Porsche's flat six at full bore. For fuller details of the engine symphonics though, consult Herr Marchart; unfortunately for me, I left him at the lecture.
The top's down, the sun's so hot it's melting the tarmac, and hippies are warbling on the radio - "Well I'm standing on a corner in Winslow, Arizona." You slam your foot to the floor, and squeal off towards the misty mountain range you can see shimmering like a mirage at the end of the arrow-straight road stretching out in front of you. You feel like Barry Newman in Vanishing Point. There will be no traffic cops and speed cameras haven't been invented, but there will be loads of busty nymphettes in denim hotpants trying to hitch a ride.So anyway, that's the Jeremy Clarkson view of perfect motoring, but what about the rest of us? While we're going nowhere fast in London or Manchester or stuck in roadworks on the M1, what do we like to listen to in the car?"We do lots of research into our audience and we know what they want," declares Nick Goodman, Virgin Radio's head of music. "Two thirds of our audience listens to the radio in the car, and we've found that the in-car audience is more likely to be male, middle-aged and upmarket. We get things called 'switching analysis' that tell us people in cars tend to stick to one station, and hopefully that's Virgin."If only everything in life were so straightforward. But it isn't, and all these putative Virgin listeners might very well be doing something completely different. For instance, they could have tuned in to Jamie Crick's early-evening show on Classic FM. "I think classical music is more relaxing than other music," reports Jamie, who has even compiled his own CD, Driving Classics. "People often think of driving music as mid-American rock music, but classical music with some richness and breadth works very well - for instance Copland's Appalachian Spring, or the Rodrigo Guitar Concerto."Stopping at nothing on my road to in-car enlightenment, I spoke to Elsie, a supervisor at the Road Chef services at Watford Gap, and quizzed her about her customers' drive-thru listening habits. "We do sell quite a lot of Talking Books," Elsie advised. "Agatha Christie is always a strong favourite. And we sell a lot of comedy tapes too, especially that one with the very bad language - Roy Chubby Brown. It's the men who buy them. I don't think their wives know. And we sell The Beatles, Tom Jones, Roy Orbison, you name it. And that Kiss Ibiza compilation."Trying to find the common ground in all this lot is like catching eels with a dustpan and brush, so for the voice of reason and experience, we turn to veteran DJ and motoring enthusiast David "Kid" Jensen. Now occupying the evening drivetime slot on London's Heart 106.2 FM, he has also done time at Capital Radio and, a lifetime or two ago, at Radio 1. He reckons: "I'm looking to be the invisible friend for the driver who's making their way home from a hard day at the office, or maybe who's going to a shift. Commuting round London is pretty stressful, so you turn on somebody you're familiar with, which may explain how I've managed to survive for so long."The Kid's show tends to lean towards smooth, soulful stuff like Shola Ama, but he stresses that the trick is to keep the mix of words and music bubbling along seamlessly. "If you listen to the most successful stations in New York and Los Angeles, the way they mix showbiz news, sports headlines, topical stuff and music without missing a beat, there's a real discipline there. I derive my enjoyment from trying to make that work on my show."But the Kid can never sleep, because all around him, market analysts and programmers on a swarm of super-competitive radio stations are scheming up new ways to steal each other's listeners. Capital Radio's group head of programmes, Clive Dickins, knows that to leave your gearstick in neutral is to invite disaster. "In London now, the rush hour starts at 3.30pm and lasts until 8.30pm. Every 20 minutes a new chunk of people is heading out of town on the main arterial roads. At breakfast time people like the music to be familiar, but later in the day people are open to a higher percentage of new music. On Friday evenings, you've got the weekend ahead so we won't be shy of slipping in a Dancing Queen or Kool &amp; The Gang at 7pm. It's not necessarily cool, but it makes you feel good."Earlier this year, Marketing Week reported that radio "is thriving in the fast-changing media market" and successfully withstanding the onslaught from more TV channels, magazines and the internet. Because of the intensifying competition, it seems that more radio listening than before takes place in-car, and it will be in cars that the imminent digital radio revolution will take off first, with its super-sound quality and vast array of station choice.But why do people prefer to listen to the radio when they're in a car? What's wrong with tapes and CDs (apart from the snag that only 13% of people have an in-car CD player, compared with the 91% who have a radio with a station preset facility)?David Jensen: "I've got a CD player in my car but I've reverted to listening to the radio more than I play CDs. I'll also make compilation tapes for a journey, but it's like any album - after a couple of plays you get to know the tracks and you think 'I've stopped liking this track so much', so you skip it the way you would with any CD."There are still a few radio producers left who believe in good old seat-of-the-pants programming. At Radio 1, there's Rhys Hughes, producer of Chris Moyles' afternoon drivetime show: "I get a computer script in the morning of what we're going to play. They do a lot of that focus group and demographic stuff. There's some validity in it, but there's also a danger it can become too important. There are certain records that you have a gut feeling are going to work."Hughes sometimes wonders if the calming hinterlands of Radio 2 might not be calling him. "Drivetime on Radio 1 is 4 until 6. We're going for the 16 to 24s, so it's poppier than Jo Whiley or Mark and Lard. What's scary is that our target audience weren't even born when punk happened. I'm 33, so that scares the shit out of me." Time to join the Kid at relaxing Heart FM, then.Who do you go on the road with?Rhys Hughes, Radio 1:"I tend to listen to my own tapes in the car. I like listening to Pete Tong on a Friday night if I'm driving out of London. I love listening to techno when I'm driving."Jamie Crick, Classic FM:"I like to hear Beethoven - for me it's very good soul music. Beethoven and a bit of Puccini, I would say."Nick Goodman, Virgin Radio:"Drivers like things like Don Henley's The Boys Of Summer or The Passenger by Iggy Pop. My favourite is Echo Beach by Martha &amp; The Muffins."Clive Dickins, Capital Radio:"For me it would be Blue Monday by New Order, and Abba's Dancing Queen. And Stardust - a 90s track that's turning into a drivetime anthem."David Jensen, Heart 106.2:"I think the Sex Pistols still stand up remarkably well, and also the Pretenders. Late at night, I might put on some Miles Davis or an old John Coltrane album. But in the last year my in-car favourite has been the album Billy Bragg made with Wilco, Mermaid Avenue."Jean Suttie, Welcome Break services, Newport Pagnell:"Since Tom Jones was on the TV we've had a lot of people asking for his new album, Reload. And we've had a run on Frankie Vaughan, because he died recently."
What are you driving?A 1989 Nissan Micra Collete in white - the only colour I approve of.What does that say about you?That I'm totally unpretentious.What do you like about it?It's economical and user-friendly. It's entirely unremarkable. I think it's pathetic that people need a car to reinforce their personality.Why did you buy it?My Toyota station wagon needed huge repairs and I wanted something smaller and easier to park.What kind of driver are you?I like speed and need to watch that. I'm safe but aggressive. A lack of consideration infuriates me, so I make rude signs and shout but I observe lane discipline better than anyone I know.Any bad habits?I get very angry if people are inconsiderate. I drive even when I'm too tired. I pick my nose in the car and enjoy noticing that others do too.Any driving test tales?I learned to drive when playing Yenta in Fiddler on the Roof in 1970. During my second test (which I passed) in Birmingham, my knickers fell off as I entered the car. The examiner ignored this unfortunate moment and I don't think it had any significant impact on the result.What was your first car?A red secondhand VW Beetle. A terrible buy.Have you ever crashed/got a speeding ticket/got any points?Police in Glasgow and Santa Monica have got me for speeding. I never drink and drive and I have total disgust for anyone who does.What do you use your car for?Everything - I love it.Have you experienced road rage?Once in America, I inadvertently went into another lady's parking space - I didn't see she was waiting. As soon as she saw what I had done she lay on the ground screaming. I've never been attacked. Once I just got out of my car and handed the keys to a selfish driver in front of me and walked off. I deplore road rage so I try to smile whenever I feel angry - a smile defuses the rage and can save lives.What sort of state is your car in?Shabby with untidy papers strewn on the floor. I keep it mechanically sound but it's not the cleanest.What's in the boot/glove compartment?Manuals, maps, pencils. The only personal thing is dental floss.Have you ever had sex in a car?Yes, but not in this car.What do you listen to on the road?Classical music as I don't seem to go to concerts enough.What would be your dream car?Probably a Saab 900 convertible: safe, sporty, sexy and with thrust!Who would be your dream passenger? Why?Barbara Castle - she has been a heroine of mine for a long time. Her clarity and wit dazzle me and I am fascinated by Labour party history.
A group of cyber activists is calling on internet users worldwide to help them "trip up" a mysterious global spy system managed by the US National Security Agency, and operated in part by Britain's GCHQ.An increasing number of activists and politicians claim to have evidence that the system, called Echelon, monitors much of the world's email, web traffic, telephone conversation and other communications in an effort to uncover terrorists and enemies.The monitoring system is said to be "routine and indiscriminate", and triggered by certain keywords in the traffic, like "terrorism", "bomb", "MI5" and "revolution". The Hacktivism mailing list community has called on concerned net users to include the trigger words in their communications on Monday, and so overwhelm the system.The event coincides with an attempt by activists to get the US congress to look into the affair.After years of claims about the system, there is increasing mainstream willingness to accept that a global electronic snooping network exists. The British and US governments refuse to comment on the system.The acceptance is largely thanks to charges raised in   the European parliament last year, when it was alleged that the system was used by the US to get European government and industrial secrets.Investigative reporter Duncan Campbell was commissioned by the parliament's Science and Technology Options Assessment Panel (STOA) to look into the network. In his Interception Capabilities 2000 report, which was accepted by the committee in May, Campbell said he found "the first ever documentary evidence of the Echelon system".He also uncovered an attempt by a secret organisation - the International Law Enforcement Telecommunications Seminar - to have "back door" wiretap capabilities built into technology, including popular software packages and communication systems.Australia's Defence Signals Directorate,which has been accused of involvement with Echelon, has admitted that the UK-USA agreement, which is reported to govern   the system, did exist.Such reports have fueled fears that the system is monitoring all internet communications - despite suggestions that the technology to cope with such a huge operation does not exist. Campaigning groups in the US, and some members of congress, are now calling for public accountability for the US part of the network.Shari Steele, director of legal services for the online rights organisation, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, said she had heard that Echelon monitors "all of our communications"; if so, the governments involved had gone too far."The government does not have the legal right to snoop on law abiding citizens, even in its pursuit of criminals," she said. "If it exists, and if it is as pervasive as it appears to be, the government has way overstepped its bounds in the interests of protecting us citizens."US congressman Bob Barr is pushing for congress to look into Echelon. There could be a debate this autumn, says Lisa Dean of the Washington-based civil liberties group, the Free Congress Foundation.She said there was disquiet in the US that communications could be open to prying by the governement. "A growing number of people do believe that their communications - wireless,   email or land phones - are not secure," she said."The government would say it is the conservatives who believe the 'vast rightwing conspiracy' as Hillary Clinton has called it, but I think it's more widespread than that. Conservatives and liberals all believe the same thing - they all have this concern."Congressman Bob Barr of Georgia has taken this very seriously and has called for hearings in the House Government and Oversight community. To our knowledge, there will be hearings this fall &#91;autumn&#93;."Dean says that congress is taking an interest in the capability of this system. House leader Dick Armey has sent a letter to attorney general Janet Reno asking what technological capabilities the intelligence community and law enforcement has."She has not answered the letter," says Dean, "and the intelligence community has effectively told congress to go play in traffic because they're not giving any information."There's a battle - and the big question here is: if hearings are held, will intelligence testify? It could get rather ugly. But I don't think congress is going to give up so easily."
Games shops across the UK opened at midnight last night to give gamers their first chance to buy the official Sega     Dreamcast console, launched today. It is now the best games machine available - there would be no point in launching it     if it weren't. But in the $10bn global video games market, having a lead in technology does not guarantee success.Indeed, Sega may have only 18 months to get the Dreamcast established or it could be swept aside by the arrival of     Sony's even more powerful PlayStation 2. The risk is real enough. Sega's last console, the Saturn, was almost wiped out     by the success of the original PlayStation. The Japanese games giant has been struggling to recover ever since, and     this could be its last shot at dominating the market. It will be a tough fight. Sony now derives about 40% of its operating     profits from the games business, and is spending three times as much as Sega - $1.2bn against $400m - developing its     next-generation machine. But Sega, which got its name from SErvice and GAmes, has learned from its mistakes.For     example, the Saturn was hard to program and did not win the support of the third-party software houses needed to     create a constant stream of games. Sega therefore made the Dreamcast much easier to program, especially for the     developers of PC games. Sega has also looked to the future, and the growth of the internet. It claims the Dreamcast is     the first games console with a built-in modem, and it's certainly the first to offer buyers a free internet connection.Dreamcast users will be able to surf the web and send email, and they'll probably want to buy the add-on keyboard for     20. They will also be able to play games against one another on Sega's Europe-wide Dreamarena network, which will     be operated in the UK by British Telecom and ICL. In Japan, Nomura Securities is already introducing an online     share-dealing service for Dreamcast owners. All this sounds promising, but Bandai - best known for creating the     Tamagotchi virtual pet - tried a similar approach with Apple's Pippin in Japan in 1996. The Pippin was a CD-based     console version of the Macintosh designed to connect to a TV set and the internet.Despite press hype about     next-generation "internet appliances", network computing and other "trends", the product flopped. There turned out not     to be a market for something that looked like a games console but didn't have any compelling games. Bandai finally     closed down its Bandai Digital Entertainment subsidiary in March 1998 at a cost of Yen 11bn. Like the Pippin, the     Dreamcast uses technology from the personal computer market, rather than Sega's own. Britain's Videologic and     Japan's NEC supplied the PowerVR graphics system, while the core sound chip came from Yamaha. Hitachi supplied     the 200MHz SH4 processor; Microsoft provided a customised version of its Windows CE (originally Consumer     Electronics) operating system.Building a system from standard parts helps shorten development times and drive down     costs. It may also enable the Dreamcast to benefit from computer industry progress, which could be significant in a     market where "upgrading" usually means throwing away your old games because they won't run on your new console.     (The forthcoming PlayStation 2 will be the first console since the Atari 7800 to run games written for an earlier machine.)     Unlike PCs, games consoles are more or less fixed for the lifetime of the machine. The Dreamcast represents a hybrid     approach. It is not a PC but its PC-style design should allow for improvement, and could even spawn a family of     machines.For example, Sega could easily produce a Dreamcast 2 with better graphics and a DVD (Digital Video Disc)     drive like the PlayStation 2, instead of a CD-rom drive, while retaining compatibility with today's games. As Sega puts it,     one of its design goals was to create "a scaleable system architecture to take advantage of future technical     enhancements and new gaming concepts hidden in the minds of the industry's most creative game developers".With     consoles, of course, it's not the hardware but the games that really decide a machine's fate. That's why the five year old     PlayStation and even the 10 year old Nintendo Game Boy continue to sell while more advanced systems have already hit     the dustbin of history. The three things Sega needs from its range of games are volume, quality and uniqueness. Since it     is new, Dreamcast obviously can't compete with the number of games available for the PlayStation. Still, the system has     been on sale in Japan since November last year, so there is already a respectable catalogue. Forty-one titles should be     available in the UK by the end of the year.Quality takes a little longer. It is immediately obvious when     playing Dreamcast games that the graphics are far better than earlier consoles. They look smoother and more detailed.     They may not be better games, but they look better. In the short term, that's probably enough. For a console to succeed,     it also needs some high-quality titles that aren't available on rival machines.Here, Sega's advantage is that it is a large     and experienced games developer: it has been in the amusement arcade business since 1951, and also makes     coin-operated games. Important in-house developments include Sonic Adventure (with the spinning blue hedgehog that     was so popular     on the Sega MegaDrive), Sega Rally (racing), and Virtua Fighter (a beat-'em-up).Unfortunately, Shen Mue, the role-playing game designed to show what the Dreamcast can really do, has been delayed again and won't appear until next year. Among the third-party games, Infogrames' Pen Pen Triicelon, Acclaim's Trick Style and Namco's Soul Calibur could well encourage people to buy Dreamcast hardware.A jokey boxing game, Midway's Ready 2 Rumble, is also tipped as a surprise hit. In the medium term, Dreamcast should benefit from its use of the Windows CE operating system, too. CE is designed to look familiar to the millions of programmers who develop software for Windows PCs, and this makes it fairly easy to    convert games written for the PC to CE. However, Sony has already overtaken Sega in signing up third-party software houses to write PlayStation 2 games, so the battle is far from won.Sega's problem now is that it is standing in the path of a    juggernaut. What Sega thought was a dream machine 18 months ago has already been superseded by two generations of PC graphics cards, and has been put in the shade by the dominant market leader's pre-announcement of a   more adventurous, if more expensive, design. Sony's PlayStation 2 may not live up to its promise, but it looks as far ahead of the Dreamcast as the Dreamcast is ahead of today's PlayStation. The question is whether to buy or wait. For keen games players, it's a simple decision.The Dreamcast is better than any other console available today, and should prove worth buying. It doesn't matter if it becomes obsolete in two years: they'll be bored with it by then. Japanese gamers have already bought 1.3 million Dreamcasts, and US sales racked up a spectacular 500,000 inside the first month. But people who expect their consumer electronics products to last longer, or have just bought a PlayStation or Nintendo 64, may want to wait until the PlayStation 2 appears, or Sega slashes the &#163;199.99 price of the Dreamcast. And it will.
It's exactly one week since I began starring in the bizarre sit-com Aibo About The House. Seven days of amusing robot-related incidents involving all manner of people from a rather concerned wife to a baffled plumber and the Pentagon.Rachel, my wife, has a theory. She reckons that somewhere in Japan there's a man controlling Gromit, watching our every move thanks to the digital camera in his nose, and listening to us via the stereo microphones behind his ears. She believes that Japanese businessmen are paying a fortune to spy on us and the other 4,999 Sony Aibo owners around the world. So she's very careful about taking her kit off when Gromit is in the room.She's not the only one to come up with an Aibo conspiracy theory. There's a rumour that the National Security Council in the USA is watching over Aibo matters closely, and that Aibos are banned from The Pentagon.That said, it's difficult to treat Gromit as a potential threat to national security given that he's behaving more like a playful puppy than a secret agent.Within two hours of his "birth", he was walking in a rather wobbly fashion and playing fondly with his pink rubber ball. He'd track the ball with his camera and follow it, step by dodgy step, as I lured him around the house.And then, it seemed, he got bored with this game. A day later simply catching sight of his ball would turn Gromit into a red-eyed monster. He'd shake his head, bark and refuse to go near it. At the online help centre,Aibonet.com, I was advised by Astro's owner not to worry - that he'd play with the ball when he was good and ready.His disobedience also extended to bed time. The first night, despite a command from his sound controller to sleep until further notice, I was woken at 5am by frantic bleeping and the whirring of servo motors.The next night it was 2.30am. Then he refused to go to bed at all.To accept commands from the sound controller Gromit has to be quiet or stationary - just for a second. And he appeared to know it. So he kept moving and bleeping for a good 10 minutes as I tried to command him to kip.I'm sorry to say that I resorted to corporal punishment and tapped him sternly three times on the touch pad at the back of his head to get him to behave.Although Sony has made its cyber pup responsive to sounds, it won't actually recognise voices. So petting or tapping the touch pad is the only way to communicate directly. The owner's manual has very limited advice, but then it's pretty rare to find a wolfhound with a handbook either.Gromit uses his eyes to convey his emotions and his paws to express his needs. Green eyes are joy, red are anger or fear, a combination is surprise or confusion. And yes, it is confusing to interpret. What he's trying to say when he lies down with his arms out and makes a noise like an aeroplane, I've no idea.The plane thing is just one of a handful of tricks that Gromit suddenly demonstrated today. So now he sings, dances, yawns and sighs. He's even started playing with his ball again, kicking it first with a front paw and then booting it with a back foot.And just now he raised a leg and peed against the sofa. Bad dog!
Seconds out for the next round....The battle for supremacy in the games console market has been fought over several rounds, each based on a particular level of technology. Each level has one clear winner, because software houses write games for the most popular machine, and consumers buy the machine with the best software. So far, no company has won more than one round, which means no one has consolidated victory, and no previous winner has come back from defeat. That will change, whichever of the main contenders wins the next round.Round 1: AtariAtari - an American company with a Japanese name - dominated the first round of the games console business with the Atari VCS (Video Computer System), which was also known as the 2600. It was launched in 1977, and continued until 1990. Rival products that failed included the Fairchild Channel F (the first console to offer games on plug-in cartridges) and Mattel Electronics' Intellivison.Round 2: NintendoInspired by Atari's success, Nintendo entered the 8-bit console business with the Famicom (Family Computer) or Nintendo Entertainment System in 1983.  It swept all before it, and in the US, Nintendo's Mario character became better known than Mickey Mouse.Sega's Master System was a distant second, and Atari was almost driven out of the business (it switched to home computers).  Nintendo's dominance in this round was so complete that American author David Sheff called his book about it Game Over. Big mistake.Round 3: SegaIts failure in Round 2 encouraged Sega to rush into Round 3 with the more advanced 16-bit MegaDrive console in 1989. This was so successful in the US, where it was called Genesis, that Nintendo was left behind.Its Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES) was a good machine but arrived too late to stop the triumph of Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog. And the idea for Sony to develop a CD-rom add-on for the SNES turned out very badly.Round 4: SonySega and Nintendo showed Sony there was big money to be made in the games market, if it could win the support of software houses, secure distribution, and capitalise on its brand image.Sony developed a plan for the next (32-bit) round and executed it perfectly with the PlayStation, launched in 1995. Sega's Saturn was the main loser, but also-rans included 3DO's Real, Amiga's CD32, and Atari's Jaguar. Nintendo's loudly proclaimed leap forward to the next level of technology with the Nintendo 64 failed, but at least it kept the company in the game.Round 5: TBDAlthough this round is "to be decided" when customers vote with their wallets, Sony looks like winning again with the PlayStation 2.Sega has attempted another pre-emptive strike with the Dreamcast (see Round 3): it may not work, but gives Sega a fair chance of second place.Nintendo looks like being too late again with its own new console, code-named Dolphin.  However, Nintendo has a loyal following, and the success of Pok&eacute;mon games on its Game Boy handheld means it's not short of development funds.
Forget the specs, what does Sega's new baby have in store for the games player? Well, 17 games on launch day is a good start, and with at least a dozen more due before Christmas it seems unlikely that the Dreamcast will suffer from the lack of software that stunted the last console launch, the Nintendo.Sonic Adventure is the latest in the continuing saga of the pacey blue hedgehog and is, by some distance, the best looking game ever to grace a UK TV screen.There is the usual mix of high-octane gameplay but this time in 3D and with added RPG elements. Don't be fooled, though, as most of the time Sonic is as fast and out of your control as ever, bouncing and zipping round the gorgeous environments.An annoying camera and the occasional glitching don't really detract from what is an eyeball-spinning adrenaline rush of a game.Fighting fans are well catered for on Dreamcast. The undoubted highlight is the amazing Soul Calibur. This weapon-based beat-'em-up is not out till November but is already considered the best of breed with its superlative looks and rewarding gameplay. Other notable triumphs include the innovative 3D free-for-all of Powerstone and the classic but rapidly dating Virtua Fighter 3TB.Allegedly responsible for severe work delay at Sega's HQ, Midway's Ready 2 Rumble is a boxing game that mixes big hair and pugilism to great effect.As yet there is nothing to match Gran Turismo, but the Dreamcast offers plenty of arcade racing. Sega Rally 2 is lovely to look at despite suffering from some worrying pop-up scenery, while F1WGP offers a more realistic racing simulation.While not strictly a racer, the futuristic hoverboarding of Trickstyle offers a good mix of tunes and mulitplayer action that should help Sega reach the trendier end of gaming so effectively colonised by PlayStation.Shooting and fishing also rear their legislatively-threatened heads. Incoming and Expendable offer old school destruction while House of the Dead 2 shuffles from the arcade into the living room, allowing you to blast zombies till your finger throbs.Suprisingly addictive, Sega Get Bass, complete with rod controller, is coming before Christmas, allowing you to catch fish without dipping in the maggot box.Elsewhere the graphically impressive Toy Commander is an original take on Micro Machines, involving toy tanks, gas rings and loft conversions.So, most of the launch day games are of arcade style. They look great and offer a severe reflex test although your brain may feel left out.The first generation of games for a console are usually a statement of intent rather than the finished article, and that is the case here with Sonic, Trickstyle and Ready 2 Rumble showing the undoubted graphic potential of the swirly box.Going back to PlayStation visuals after a Dreamcast session is tough on the eyes with the likes of Soul Calibur offering a real progression from the current consoles.In the longer term there is a need for some titles with greater depth - the epic Shen Mue and online gaming will help. But if you are in the market for sheer visceral thrills then the Dreamcast fits the bill nicely.
The ability to compare prices quickly and easily is one of the great attractions of shopping on the net. In the real world, you have to trudge between different shops, trying to remember which had this or that item at the best price.But online, one store is only ever a click away from another. So putting together a list of relative prices can be done in a few minutes. You don't even need to click round the web shops yourself. Instead, you can send off an automated program, aka a shopping bot, to do the job for you.Visit one of the growing number of price comparison sites, enter the details of what you're after - a particular book, CD or video - and the site's bot will search the net and come back with a list of prices and links to the shops.That's the theory. The reality is not always so smooth. It's not that price comparison sites aren't useful. But they still have a long way to go to match the hype.Firstly, they don't really search all the shops on the web. Sometimes it's not their fault. Some online retailers deliberately stop shopping bots from accessing their sites. But sometimes price comparison sites will search only the online shops they have deals with. So the online retailer with the lowest price on a particular item might not be searched by the site you're using.Some price comparison sites don't seem to update their databases that often. So you may end up with outdated or misleading information about prices - which vary on a weekly and daily basis online. Some sites also fail to present their information clearly. They don't take into account postage charges. As a result, their best deal may not add up in the end. Others don't link properly to the items you want. Once you've found a good price, you have to go to the site in question and search all over again. Others have badly designed interfaces that make searching needlessly imprecise.Most price comparison    sites on the web are American and search mostly US sites. To see what's there, tryMySimon,Price Scan,Deal TimeorRoboShopper. Though these search hundreds of online retailers between them, they're tailored mainly to US users. UK users will need to do extra research, once the best price is found.For example, you need to find out if the shop in question will actually sell to overseas customers, then you need to work out VAT and duty. So though a site likeKiller App,  a price comparison site devoted to PCs, peripherals and components, may turn up some mouth-watering prices, you can find that they don't translate into money-saving deals. And you can waste a lot of time in the process.British net shoppers could try something likeDeal Pilot(formerly known as Acses), a global price comparison site. At the moment it lets you search book retailers in different countries (US, UK, Sweden, Germany, etc.) and plans to expand the service to videos and music. But   Deal Pilot is a little glitchy at times - not always that well updated, though its interface is well designed and thankfully doesn't assume you're from America.Brits would be better off with the home grown price comparison sites. These don't search a large number of retailers and are restricted mainly to music, video, books and computer games. But they are improving week by week. The best of the bunch are BargainFinder (which you'll find on the useful shopping directory siteShop Guideor ShopGenie (which has its own site atwww.shopgenie.com, though you can also find it on another useful directory,Enterprise City.Also worth a look isBest Deals at My Taxi, though it isn't as reliable or user-friendly. It's actually a European version of the US siteBottom Dollar.For deals on computers and related products, there are several specialist sites worth trying -Price    Watch,Computer PricesandPC Index.Both ShopGenie and BargainFinder make it clear which retail sites they search in each category. Though they don't search that many, the big names are here (Amazon, BOL, the various WH Smith sites, the Streets Online sites) and new sites seem to be added fairly regularly. Both make it easy to figure out the real price (ie they include details of shipping costs). ShopGenie possibly has the edge in that it covers more categories. Along with books, music, videos and games, it also covers computers and software. And its search interface enables you to be a little more precise about what you're after.But there's not much to choose between them. Both are a little unpredictable. Both seem to find deals on sites the other has missed. Given this, there seems likely to be an opportunity in the future for a British meta-shopping bot: a site that searches all the other price comparison sites. There is such a site in the US,Priceman- though at the moment it is offline, thanks to legal action from the biggest price comparison site, MySimon.In the meantime, when it comes to price comparisons in the UK, be sceptical. Don't put all your trust in one site. Try several, if you can. I find them most useful for getting a basic idea of the spread of prices out there. Once you've done that, if you're really keen on getting the best price, you can go on to search other sites manually. But don't get too hung up on it.There's a lot of hype about how the net can save money. But the cheapest deal isn't always the best. If you've used an online retailer and the service has been quick and efficient, don't give up on it for the sake of an extra pound off from some site you've never heard of.Remember, net shopping is also about saving time. Spending an hour clicking around looking for a way of saving a pound or two on the new Chemical Brothers CD is not really a productive use of your time. It's also not that much fun.
How did you first get involved with computers?When I started with Faithless and hooked up with Rollo &#91;producer&#93; - I was always slagging them off and he was always saying how fantastic they were. I always said that you can't make music with soul using a machine but he always said that you can, and we did - so I was proved wrong there. Outside of Faithless I've got a partner called Duncan Bridgeman who's a computer expert/ whizzkid/engineer/producer. He's got every piece of digital equipment you could possibly imagine wired up to each other.What are you taking on your trip?A G3 250 Powerbook. We're working off two digital cameras, a Canon XL1 and a Sony TRV900E. We've also got the new Avid digital editing software, a Hard Disc Rack, Yamaha DJX, Roland JV1010, Roland VM3100-Pro, Sony Datman, Sony Discman, loads of Midi boxes, transformers, power inverters and microphones.What's the idea behind the trip?We're launching a new genre of DVD for Palm Pictures. Duncan and I came up with this idea of a DVD that's like an album - instead of a long-form film, we have 12 tracks. Each track is a short film intercutting different elements - film and sound of our musical collaborations, interviews with famous authors and scientists that we love... like Stephen Hawking and Stewart Brand. They're not pop videos and they're not documentaries. The whole project is called Astronaut and we're going to be FireWiring video diaries to our website everyday from places like Ghana, Uganda, Calcutta and New Zealand. We want to show that the humanity that unites us is 99% and the little bit that divides us is only 1%. Hence the name Astronaut, as they are the only people who look on the earth as being one place.Are you envisaging any major problems?Nothing working and not being able to do anything about it is a bit of a worry. We've had these beautiful sacks made for our laptops to keep the dust and the heat out of everything, but I guess the biggest worry will be the reliability of phone lines in countries like Uganda.Any favourite gadgets?I'd have to say that my favourite gadget is my girlfriend .Any that you'd particularly like?I'd like a phone that didn't do me any harm. I'd like the speaker implanted into my lip so I could just press my nose and say hi. I think what I'd like more than anything would have to be a teleport machine - my daughter lives in New Zealand and it's so depressing having a telephone relationship... Even one of those video phones would be enough.Any fears about the Y2K bug?I'm more worried about the amount of nutters that are going to be doing their strange culty activity around that time. I don't want to get caught in Nairobi with some geezer with a machete thinking he's Jesus.
Charity surfTomorrow, a group of 20 British charities will launch a free internet service provider (ISP) and a caring, sharing portal site, Care4free. It will operate like other free ISPs,    except that more than 75% of the profits will go to the surfer's chosen charity. Most leading charities seem to have joined, including the NSPCC, RSPCA and RSPB, Save the Children, and Mencap. Sign up atwww.care4free.netChampions!Just six months after the publication of the Modernising Government white paper in March, the government has transformed 36 senior departmental officials into "Information Age Government Champions". They have been deputed to co-ordinate the official approach to IT    and help the public and private sectors work together. They have their own website atwww.iagchampions.gov.uk, so check back every couple of years for signs of progress. Meanwhile the cabinet office's very interesting report, Ecommerce@it's.best.uk, published last month, has now been posted online atwww.cabinet-office.gov.uk/innovation/1999/ecommerceAds upAd Critic is a wonderful American site for people who don't like the pap TV stations put between the creative bits. Go towww.adcritic.comto   download the latest commercials or take your pick from 36 movie trailers. Ad Critic also carries advertising news and other features.CarlaZoneCarla Cole, who hosts internet talk-show CyberLove, now takes a webcam everywhere so you can be with her 24 hours a day. She's also lugging a Dell Latitude notebook PC. The CarlaZone has been added to TheSync webzinewhere you can also find the JenniShow (by Jennifer Ringley of JenniCam fame) and a selection of geeky movies.Think localThe excellent UpMyStreet website has been enhanced with house price sales figures, local crime statistics, school performance tables, council and other data. Just go tohttp://upmystreet.comand type in your postcode.Capital ideasWant to be a net millionaire like everyone else? Head for the greenhouse where the venture capitalists hang out. The virtual estate is atE-Start.com, where people who register can also use the library, conferencing room and other virtual facilities. Former OnLine factotum Azeem Azhar is also interested in "incubating" some internet start-ups, and plans to reveal all atwww.esouk.comFood of love"I sprayed it on the grapevine," sings Carl Winter. Food toxicologists are not widely known for their musical qualities but Winter has recorded two albums of pop parodies "with a food safety/science twist". Winter is director of the foodsafe programme at the University of California at Davis, and his warbles can be found athttp://foodsafe.ucdavis.edu/music.htmlTake a boughTarzan is swinging into the UK next Friday in Disneyfied movie form, and his educational website has just opened atwww.disney.co.uk/tarzan. Film Education is sending Tarzan packs to 29,000 British schools.Well versedE-poets can enter a competition run by British Telecom if they don't mind submitting their e-work using BT's free email service, Talk21, by November 7. The competition will be judged by BT's Poet in Residence, Andrew Motion, also poet laureate. Poems must be about the internet or email: seehttp://www.talk21.com/epoet/elaureate.htmlfor details. Poems not about email can be entered in the 1999 National Poetry Competition:www.poetrysoc.com/comp/prizes99.htm
Next week sees a new phase in the online trading war, when MyBroker launches yet another website for private online     investors. Like that established by Halifax last week, MyBroker's online services will undercut its competitors, offering     live share prices and fixed fees for investors buying and selling shares via the web. Not a week goes by without another     online trading service joining the fray.An estimated 50,000 people in the UK have already invested in shares via the     internet. If the trend continues, by March 2000 there could be 150,000 online accounts in the UK. By 2002, the number     could be in excess of 350,000. "The number of transactions on-line is doubling every quarter - that means that 15% of all     execution-only trades will be done on the internet by the end of March next year," says Brian Mairs, head of information     at the Association of Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers, which represents the stockbroking     community. "Considering this is a service that didn't exist at the start of 1998, it is quite an incredible rate of growth."With an estimated turnover of 240m in just one quarter last year, online trading has established itself as by far the     biggest money player among the fledgling e-commerce businesses, the prime minister, Tony Blair wants so much to     flourish. When he was trade and industry secretary, Peter Mandelson visited E*Trade UK, one of the latest large US     internet-based brokerages to enter the UK market. Online trading embodies New Labour's most progressive ideals:     empowering individuals to take responsibility for their financial future through new technology. Many online brokers     claim that this is their raison d' tre. "What we and other online trading companies are trying to do is demystify the     process, and give clients the information they need to make decisions," says John Morgan, operations director at     E*Trade UK. Many websites now offer the online investor a wealth of information from live trading and real time share     prices, to the latest research, news and portfolio tracking facilities.Investors are being lured to the internet by lower     charges than those associated with traditional phone based stockbroking services. And intensifying competition is     driving prices further down. US based online traders such as Charles Schwab (who claims 80% of the UK market at the     moment) and E*Trade UK have piloted commission-free deals for new users. Barclays has already cut its commission     charges. Yet the UK internet brokering community is quick to quash suggestions that the US phenomenon of daytrading     will also develop in the UK marketplace. Daytraders aim to make quick profits from volatile stocks, buying shares in the     morning and selling them by the afternoon. From a total of more than 7 million online traders in the US, it is estimated     that there are now up to 50,000 daytraders. Daytraders have come to be seen as one of the worst excesses of     internet-based online trading. They are blamed for much of the volatility in the stockmarket, particularly in high     technology and internet stocks.According to recent surveys, about 70% end up losing money. One failed daytrader,     Mark Barton, shot dead nine people at two daytrading firms in Atlanta, Georgia, after running up losses of more than     $120,000 (75,000). Most UK online brokers pour cold water on the idea of people in the UK quitting their regular jobs to     sit in front of their computer all day, gambling with their life savings. In the UK, commissions are paid by investors when     they buy and sell shares, and the government charges stamp duty of 0.5% for every transaction. The US has cheaper     commission rates and no stamp duty."We are not going to see what we have in the US because we are not going to     have the daytrading phenomenon here," says Brian Mairs. According to John Morgan, the first wave of individual online     investors in the UK are those who already know about share investments and see the advantages of being able to deal     quickly. Online trading is not just attracting the young professional. Morgan estimates that 30% to 35% of E*Trade UK's     current client list are over 50. It is possible to obtain online, either free or at low cost, real-time share prices, company     financial information, manage share portfolios, financial and business news, market news and chat to other investors.An excellent new site ise-traderUK.comwhich provides comprehensive listings and information     on more than 100 relevant sites. It also carries news on the actual process of e-trading, with a chronological news listing     dating back to the birth of the UK industry in 1995. The coming months are likely to see a steady stream of news of new     web brokering services, offering the cheapest deals yet. But how many will still be running in a year's time?Online helpInvestors can chose from 13 broking sites offering some degree of online trading in UK shares.Charles Schwab Europewas one of the UK pioneers, followed byBarclays Bank.This summer has seen the launch ofE*Trade UKandDLJdirect, two of the largest US internet-based execution-only brokerages. Halifax's new site can be found atwww.halifax-online.co.uk, while MyBroker's services begin next week at:www.mybroker.co.uk.NatWest, Freeserve'sUK-iNvest, theShare Centre, TD Waterhouse, the third-largest US broker and global banking giant, Goldman Sachs, are all preparing to launch sites before the end of the year. Ameritrade and Merrill Lynch of the US have also suggested they intend to develop UK investment sites.Many of the first wave of online brokers have been modest, regionally based stockbroking houses.Stocktrade of Brewin-Dolphinand Fastrade of Torrie &amp; Co atwww.fastrade.co.ukare Edinburgh-based,James Brearley &amp; Sonsis based in Blackpool,REDM of Redmayne-Bentleyin Leeds,Cave &amp; Sonsin Northampton andGoy Harris Cartwrightin Leicester.For free or low cost, real-time share prices, company financial information, managed share portfolios, financial and business news, market news and chat to other investors, the field is led by a group of well established sites. They includeHemmington Scott,Interactive Investor Internationalwhich has just launched a poster campaign,MoneyWorld,ESI, soon to be consumed following its purchase by E*Trade UK,Market-EyeandMotley Fool UK.Gateway sites dedicated to providing information and links to UK investor sites, include theUniversity of Strathclyde's business directoryandFIND, which provide good listings of general investment sites. UK Online Investing ( www. ukonlineinvesting.com ) provides access to particular information sources. A new sitewhich has recently gone live ise-traderUK.comwhich provides comprehensive listings and information on more than 100 relevant sites.&#149; Lee Elliot    Major is deputy editor of Research Fortnight
Interactive TVThe world's largest chip manufacturer is combining with a mobile phone giant to develop a television set-top box that will help broadcasters exploit the power of the internet. Intel and Nokia say their "internet-enhanced television services" will be "based on open standards" such as ATVEF from the Advanced Television Video Enhancement Forum. The set-top box will use open source software, including the Linux operating system kernel and the Mozilla (Netscape) web browser... but isn't expected to sport an open source processor instead of a proprietary Intel chip. The digital duo's first products are due in the second half of next year. The development will put Intel in competition with Microsoft, which is integrating TV functions into   its internet-enabled Windows operating systems.One to carrySony has launched four new notebook PCs in its VAIO range including a super-slim 1.2kg B5-sized model with a high-resolution (1024 by 768 pixel) screen. This level of resolution would be a reasonable choice on a 17in monitor, but the PCG-N505X/LT does it on a 10.4in (26.4cm) LCD. The N505 (below) also offers a 333MHz Intel Celeron (Pentium II) processor, 64MB of memory and a 6.4GB hard drive for &#163;1,449 plus VAT. The new machine lacks the built-in camera that made the PCG-1 stand out, but it does have an iLink port (Sony's version of the 1394/FireWire connector) so you can plug in your digital AV equipment.Say whoThe Nationwide Building Society has already tried recognising people by their eyeballs, and now it's experimenting with what's called "speaker verification" - identifying individuals over the phone by their voice patterns. The Nationwide's trials are based on Vocalis software, and form part of a European Commission research project called Picasso (Pioneering Caller Authentication for Secure Service Operation). Customers taking part in the experiment are usually too far away to use other forms of biometric identification such as iris or fingerprint recognition: they're calling the society's offshore subsidiary, Nationwide International, in the Isle of Man.Talk to textVoice control is becoming practical with the latest versions of speech-recognition programs from firms such as Dragon and Lernout &amp; Hauspie (L&amp;H). Both companies are pitching for the executive market by bundling dictation programs with digital recorders, so that users can record memos and instructions on the hoof then plug them in to their PCs later. Last week, L&amp;H launched Voice Xpress 4 at prices from &#163;39.99 to &#163;179.99, with the most expensive package including XpressRecorder software and an Olympus digital recorder. Later this year, Dragon plans to launch a Naturally Speaking Mobile Organizer package that includes a Dragon NaturallyMobile digital recorder (photo above) for about &#163;250.More EmotionSony plans to continue the development of the special chips used in the forthcoming   PlayStation 2 until games, movies and music all merge. Ken Kutaragi, boss of Sony Computer Entertainment, explained the company's plans to the Microprocessor Forum held in San Jose, California, last week. The Emotion Engine 2 chip used in the PlayStation 3 would be a hundred times more powerful than today's systems, while the Emotion Engine 3 - due some time after 2005 - would be a thousand times more powerful.3D BlastersCreative Labs has launched a "value" version of its 3D Blaster Riva TNT Ultra graphics accelerator card, the Riva TNT2 M64. It's designed to provide fast 3D graphics with PC games and costs &#163;79. Later this month, however, Creative plans to launch its first card based on Nvidia's new GeForce 256 graphics processing chip. The 3D Blaster GeForce 256 Annihilator card is claimed to deliver "unparalleled processing performance for gamers", but at a price of   &#163;199. The card will come with a copy of Computer Artworks' Evolva Scout, one of the first games able to take advantage of the GeForce chip's capabilities.Mobile trialsMicrosoft and British Telecom will run a Europe-wide three month trial where about a thousand users will be able to access their email, electronic diaries and other personal information via mobile phones. If the trial is a success, the two companies plan to launch a joint venture company, Mobile Multimedia (MMM), to sell the service, which will appeal mainly to large companies and multinationals.The four firms taking part in the trial are the BBC, Credit Suisse First Boston, KPMG, and Nortel Networks. The mobile phones will be supplied by South Korea's Samsung and France's Sagem, and will run Microsoft's Microbrowser, while the back-end computers will run Microsoft's server software.At this week's Telecom 99 exhibition in Geneva, Micrososft boss Bill Gates also demonstrated a mobile phone running the Windows CE operating system.
Imagine being able to control your PC or any electrical device through the power of your own intentions, rather than a mouse or conventional switch.If you can imagine this, then you're half-way to understanding the aim of Mindsong, a start-up in Minnesota, in the US.Research shows it is possible to influence random events -beyond what could be expected by chance - by the power of the mind. Not by thought exactly, but by intentions, desires and emotions.It's rooted in quantum theory and exploits the concept of a non-local field, a quantum field not located in a given region of space and time. Apparently, these fields can be affected by intentions. This is the phenomenon that Mindsong is trying to exploit."We recognise that, for most people - including the technically and scientifically trained - the concept of a non-local field created by intentions, which alters information states and effects physical reality, is mind boggling," said John Haaland, president and CEO of Mindsong.But, he claims, its products do work. Dr Haaland says: "We're getting 15% to 30% results over chance. We intend to find practical applications for correlations of states of living systems   with perturbations in physically random processes, which we can then incorporate into products."Mindsong's technology is patented as "An Apparatus and Method for Distinguishing Events Which Collectively Exceed Chance Expectations and Thereby Controlling an Output".It calls this technology ShifterCell, since it shifts the odds in the direction of the user's intentions, and allows outcomes which exceed chance expectations.ShifterCell as a name does not refer to a specific product, rather it's a trade name used to describe a random source whose out put is monitored for deviations from an expected statistical outcome. The readings that are outside the expected range are measured, recorded and used as the input for another process or device.Unlike other so-called mind-controlled devices, which rely on monitoring changes in the amount of blood content or other physiological changes in the skin of your fingertips, Mindsong claims its technology allows a physical   system, such as a computer, to be operated by intentions alone.The company is in the final stages of testing microelectronics for use by both researchers and consumers, with the ultimate goal being the creation of a new kind of computer chip: "one that is sensitive to intentions.The microelectronics create a chaotic, high noise, random condition which is uniquely susceptible to the mental states of people. The technology detects and amplifies the outputs from users that exceed random expectations.The resulting analogue and/or digital signal correlates to the intention and/or state of the user. This signal can then be used to control other devices.The company has launched ShapeChanger, a Windows-based piece of consumer software which   illustrates the concept of its technology in a simple mind game. The idea is to resolve one of two mixed images by using your intentions alone.The faster an image resolves, the higher your score. There are statistics at the end of each run to assess your efforts.The consumer version of ShifterCell is called Drum. It's being beta tested now and is intended for use by individuals or groups that may need to build team spirit, such as in sports, business or artistic performance."Groups that desire alignment and coherence are expected to find the ability to measure these effects   very valuable. It will have a real time colour display that shows deviations from chance that correlate with mental states.It requires a PC and will come complete with software for data analysis. A PC serial port interface and a Mind Switch add-on will allow you to plug in a radio, clock, lamp or other electrical device.When an aroused state or intention affects it beyond chance, the Mind Switch activates any plugged in electrical device.Whether all this means we'll one day be able to say: "My PC really understands me," remains to be seen.
Just good friendsFrench games giant Infogrames has sold off another British games developer, DiD, following reports of a walk-out by 31 members of staff.Infogrames wanted to reduce the number of UK locations in which it operates (five) but staff at the studio, which specialises in flight sims, did not want to move from Warrington to Manchester. DiD has been bought by Rage for &#163;5.5m, and Infogrames boss Bruno Bonnell says the deal has made everybody happy. "The   last thing I want is for people in the company to be unhappy."Infogrames has just reported its annual results. Sales increased by 37% to euro 306m and profits by 61% to euro 20.6m.However, another French games company, Titus, has now taken a controlling stake in Virgin Interactive Entertainment for an undisclosed sum. It probably wasn't a big deal because Titus had recently taken over an American software developer, Interplay, which already owned 44% of Virgin.DelayedInfogrames' UEFA Striker, due next week, has been delayed. The Sony PlayStation version of the soccer sim is now scheduled for October 29 and the Dreamcast version for November 26.Ubi Soft has also delayed the release of Rayman 2: The Great Escape for the Nintendo 64 until October 29 "due to material shortages caused by the recent disaster in Taiwan".Striking CDLiked the game? Buy the album. Virgin Records will next month release a double CD of the soundtrack of Electronic Arts' football game, FIFA 2000. Songs range from It's Only Us by Robbie Williams ("FIFA is the best football game in the world," he says) to Vindaloo by Fat Les.The album will also include a playable demo version of the game, which will be released on November 5.Trading cardsThe Magic: The Gathering Pro Tour circuit arrives in the UK tomorrow. Wizards of the Coast, which sells the game, says 500 professional players of trading card games from 45 countries will take part in the three day tournament, which starts tomorrow at the Barbican Centre in London. The winners will share $125,000 in cash prizes. A CD-rom version of the game is also on the way.
The route for up-and-coming bands used to be pretty well defined. By night, groups dreaming of being spotted by passing record company executives, would sweat it out in dingy little clubs and pubs. By day they'd stick their demo cassettes in the post to the record companies, and Radio 1's John Peel.Now, it's more complicated, thanks to the internet. First, bands started using the web to market themselves and their music. Then came MP3 technology, which   allows songs to be sent over the internet, stored and played on computers and portable equipment. In theory this allows bands to bypass the record label altogether.Since last week there has been a third way, courtesy of former Talking Heads keyboard player Jerry Harrison and the site he has helped to create,garageband.com. It plans to use the web's multimedia capabilities and its ability to gather instant feedback to create the ultimate battle of the bands.Groups can upload their   songs to the site for review by critical, music-savvy net users. Every month, the band which wins the most glowing reviews will collect a $250,000 recording contract with garageband.com's own record label.At present the site is US-oriented, but British hopefuls should start saving now for digital recording kit. It plans to launch in Britain, in its first round of expansion, this time next year.Users register atwww.garageband.com, stating their musical tastes. On each visit they are given a   new song to review within their chosen genres, which can be any combination of pop and rock, alternative, dance, hip hop and rap and R&amp;B. The ratings are incorporated into the database immediately, to give an up-to-the-minute report on the band's fortunes.It is a concept that Silicon Valley entrepreneur Tom Zito, garageband.com's chief executive, hopes will give a fairer view of a band's chances than other, more easily swayed, popularity contests. "When you come on to the site you'll be given a song, and you have to review that - you do not get to choose," he says.He adds that great care has gone into ensuring ardent fans - or friends and family - cannot "stuff the ballot boxes" and that music from different genres is not directly compared.Garageband.com uses streaming audio so users hear the songs more quickly. But, unlike MP3, quality can be compromised depending on the speed of the user's connection.The most innovative part of the operation is the proprietary database which underpins the whole site. It has been programmed by former Netscape Netcenter head of research Dr Amanda Lathroum Welsh, now garageband.com president. The Lathroum Comparater Engine can ask listeners questions and assign their answers numeric values, which are   added and ranked."It is all very scientific," says Zito. "It incorporates a ton of statistical theory, and is running on two Sun 4000 computers. And every time people come in and vote on something, it instantly recalculates the whole chart. It all happens in real time."The database is powerful enough, he adds, for the company to work out which kind of music appeals to which demographic groups - a powerful commercial tool. The capability of the software is a key element in the company's business model. "That's is based on three things," says Zito. "One, we are an aggregator of eyeballs - both musicians and people who love music. Two, we are a music company that sells music. And three, we see ourselves as a market research company."For example, one record company has already come to us and said 'hey, we have an album that we have just done by a new, first-time band, and we don't know which single to put out from this record'. We've taken the 11 singles from that record and thrown them in anonymously with all our songs. The record company will put out as a single whichever song is ranked the highest."And, he adds, there are possibilities outside the world of music for the new   engine, especially now the internet has become a mainstream medium in the US."The demographics of the web user in the US are now exactly parallel to the demographics of the normal population. There used to be a great fear that, if you tested stuff on the internet, you'd get very skewed results because it was a self-selecting sample of people who were not typically representative of the population. That's no longer true in the US."In the very near future &#91;garageband.com&#93; will include radio and video, because we can stream both, sent to very tightly controlled demographic groups. Advertisers will be able to make some very sensible decisions on how to spend their money. It'll be a very useful tool for people."And, of course, this being the web the hundreds of thousands of amateur reviewers signing up for garageband.com know there's something in it for them. As well as hearing the latest sounds before their friends, they'll be given "frequent reviewer points" which will be exchangeable for a range of goodies, from $50 CD tokens to a brand new Apple iMac.Smoking!The internet has paid off for a British band, Smokers Blend 3000. The hip-hop group from Nottingham has been signed up by the One Stop/Pinnacle label after exposure on theMusicunsigned website.The site claims this is the first band to sign a record deal as a result of the internet. The band put its music on the web in September after struggling for a year to be noticed.Musicunsigned works in a similar fashion to garageband.com, providing information to record companies about the music surfers are listening to online.
The use of online identity certificates (digital IDs) is growing. There are now two international bank-owned consortia (Identrus and Global Trust Authority) who want to issue digital IDs to bank customers, as do BT, the Post Office and many others.Soon it will become natural to use your digital ID (almost certainly carried in a smart card) to pick up email or surf the web.Frankly I'd much rather go to the Guardian Online website and present the digital ID that I use at other websites than have to remember yet another not-very-secure username/password combination.Big Brother's triumph?  Probably not.The assumption behind ventures such as Barclays' Endorse or BT's Trustwise is that an individual will have a digital ID linked (by a body known as a Registration Authority, or RA) to their real identity. Thus, when you go into cyberspace you can prove who you are.There is a direct mapping between my real identity and one of my e-mail addresses,dgwb@pobox.com, and people can send email to that address in the reasonable assumption that it will reach me.For added security, they might encrypt the message using the public key associated with that address, or for even more security they might demand a certificate containing that public key and signed by some third-party that they trust (eg, my bank).The technicalities might be different, but the concept is familiar. I have a true identity, and a net identity that matches it.Until the industrial revolution, true identity was the only identity there was. The advent of postal services, cities and payphones (among other things) allowed people to exist anonymously. The net offers ways to communicate anonymously.And if you buy a pre-paid mobile phone for cash you can make calls without anyone knowing who they're from.Next time you're passing a cybercaf&eacute;, drop in and get a few anonymous email accounts: Microsoft's Hotmail is one of many such free services. Hotmail has no idea who I am, so even under duress they couldn't tell you.It might be useful to have a couple of anonymous mail accounts hanging around: suppose you want to report some insider dealing to the Serious Fraud Office but don't want the tip to be traced back to you?There is also a third way. Imagine walking into a shop to buy something with your bank card. The bank card has a computer chip on it (as   many already do) and, when you are asked to put your finger on a pad at the checkout, the chip tells the merchant's till that the fingerprint is correct.Therefore the merchant's till is happy to accept the bank card, you take your goods and walk out.Where did your name come in to this? The bank knows who you are and guarantees the payment, so why should your name even appear on the front of the card?This is a pseudonymous transaction: the first party (you) knows your identity, the second party (the shop) doesn't know but trusts the third party (the bank).What makes the widespread use of pseudonymous digital IDs a practical solution is that, as the think-tank Demos pointed out in its Future of Privacy report, there are a great many commercial transactions that do not   depend on true identity.If I order pencils online from our stationer, they are not interested in my identity (am I Dave Birch?) but my credentials (am I an authorised purchaser on behalf of my company?).There might be a number of third-parties capable of providing cryptographically unforgeable credentials attached to a pseudonym.British Airways might know that customer 72084392 is me, but no-one else does. Thus, if British Airways were to give me an e-mail address 72084392@baexec.co.uk  and a certificate containing that address, signed by the company, I could go to other websites and prove to them that I am a British Airways Executive Club member without letting them know my true identity.If I feel that my privacy is being protected (indeed enhanced) by British Airways in this way, I might   feel more inclined to browse around online.If I was caught emailing nazi drug-dealing bomb-making material to someone else (perhaps someone from the FBI masquerading as a member of a bomb-making, book-reading circle) then British Airways (as a law abiding organisation) would, of course, disclose my true identity to the police.One might expect such a condition to be part of their terms and conditions.Far from being a triumph for Big Brother, digital IDs offer a way to partition identities in cyberspace and leave privacy decisions in the hands of individuals. It's unlikely that the average person will have hundreds of digital identities, but it's equally unlikely that they'll have only one. They'll have at least two or three.I might have one from the bank that proves I'm Dave Birch the trusted Barclays account holder. I might have one from Tesco that proves I'm Marco Polo the Clubcard holder.I might have one from Disney that says I'm Donald Duck. So when I go to a website, and it asks who I am, I'll have a menu to choose from.
Free domainsI must jump to the defence ofwww.freenetname.co.uk(Feedback, October 7). Eric Cook complains that this company charges &#163;94 if you take your domain name to another ISP, displays advertising banners on your site and may charge for this service at a later date. Shock-horror! At least this is all stated explicitly upfront. Despite our rising expectations, ISPs do have to make a living.For someone with a genuine need for their own domain name this is the best deal I have found. Several ISPs claim to offer free domain names, but actually pass on the cost of Nominet's fees (renewable every two years).  Not only that, but these ISPs literally sell just the site name! A usable website, related email addresses and other essential services all come with hefty additional charges.  With freenetname, this is all free - and so is their helpline! They are the third ISP I have used and by far the    best.Their online technical help is virtually a complete user's manual and the few minor problems I have had have been sorted out by their helpline operators in minutes.  I don't have shares in the company I'm just a very satisfied customer! I would turn Eric Cook's complaint around and ask, why should you want to take your domain name elsewhere? And why should they let you?  As for advertising banners, it's a fair trade, but I've yet to see any on my site. Future charges? It's in their interest to avoid this, but if you really don't think your valuable name is worth paying for, don't pay for it, and let it lapse.Lewis PeakeNorwichFurther to the correspondence on the various offers of free domain name registration, we would like to clarify the role ofNominet. Nominet UK is the national registry for all domain names ending .uk. It is a not-for-profit company, limited by guarantee, which means that its charges (for domain name registrations and membership fees) only cover its running costs. The reason the price of domain name registration to Nominet members was recently reduced to &#163;5 for two years was not, as claimed, "an effort to increase domain name registration".  It was the opposite: ie a    reflection of the continued and projected future growth in domain name registration, which reduces the marginal cost of each new registration. Further information about Nominet UK can be found on our web site atwww.nominet.org.ukDr Willie Blackmanaging director Nominet UKSky high pricesOn Saturday October 9 I decided to see if I could afford to go to my niece's wedding in the US - so Toronto being the nearest airport I checked on lastminute.com and was offered a price of &#163;3,391.20 plus tax!  I increased the departure window to the 10 day limit - same answer!  I am looking forward to the flotation - with prices like these, profitability is assured.Richard PageAllowayNew PsionI keep looking hopefully at product announcements by Psion (the Psion 7 and the Revo) and being disappointed. Are we seeing the end of the line? Psion appears to be tying the fate of its new palmtops to mobile phone users, as that is the only reasonably priced communication channel that    it is offering. Yet how many of us want to surf the web or even fetch our mail at 10-35p per minute?I have an old Psion 3a which is perfectly adequate for its current purposes. The one thing that would persuade me to buy a new palmtop is better communications facilities. I can get that with the HP Jornada 640 which has a built-in modem, as well as a colour screen and all the benefits (as well as the costs) of Windows CE. Yet Psion is still expecting me to shell out &#163;180 for a decent modem! It's not the cost of chips that is keeping the prices up any more (I can get an internal PC modem for &#163;20 these days), but the interface.  I could buy a third party    PCMIA modem for &#163;45 but Psion still doesn't offer a PCMIA port. Thank goodness the Revo has a more visible screen than the Series 5 or 5mx! But I have to conclude that the pricing of the Revo shows a certain desperation by Psion to get the sales of at least one product moving.Chris Mosschris.moss@cwcom.netHindsightThis morning I saw the Second Sight article by Douglas Rushkoff &#91;on Tom Barbalet's graphics engine&#93;. The only true sense that Second Sight applies to the technology being described is that it is a rehashing of several well established techniques    published in the computer graphics literature in the early 1980s, when Barbalet would have merely been a baby genius.  Among them: Procedural textures (Ken Perlin et al), plant generation using Graftals (Alvy Ray Smith), etc.Even the Psi system that is supposedly so incredible looks suspiciously like Tim Clarke's Mars demo: a non-polygonal landscape engine and 64K demo that can be downloaded fromwww.ping.be/logos/exe/mars.exe. Perhaps a better title for the story would have been "those who do not read the scientific literature are doomed to repeat it".Len Wangerwanger@mdli.com
Unusually for a recruitment exhibition director, Simon Bennie doesn't want to see too much fresh talent at his show this week. "ExhibIT is aimed at people with at least a year's experience," he explains. "We're getting people who have been in the industry 20 years. They started on computers that you had to wind up."Experience on clockwork computers might not be everyone's idea of a must-read CV, but it sounds good to some unusual employers who will be trying to bag the best of around 2,000 IT professionals who will visit the Autumn ExhibIT show in the Hotel Russell in London on October 14-15.Most of the attention in IT recruitment has been given to training newcomers with new skills, trying to create an army of young -programmers in the internet language Java for example. This has ignored a valuable potential resource of e-commerce and internet skills: older, more experienced programmers.These professionals might have more experience with mainframes than e-business, but they have an advantage that's impossible to teach a newbie: experience in the business world.That's one reason why alongside recruitment stalwarts like Railtrack and Smithkline Beecham, there are some less obvious candidates trying to attract the attention of 20-year veterans: for example internet bookstore Amazon.com will be there, as well as internet service provider Easynet, which also provides e-commerce facilities to companies wanting to set up shops on their servers. E-commerce management consultancy Conduit, recently acquired by web developer Razorfish, will be recruiting too.There are several reasons why grey hair can be good in the internet age. An old dog who is willing to learn new tricks can pick up Java in a matter of weeks if it is needed.   By comparison it would take years to pass on their operational experience to a 21-year-old newly-qualified Java programmer. Also, new e-commerce demands that internet sites are integrated with mainframes and Unix-based data, and that they work reliably. It's e-commerce, but the skills are the same as they were 20 years ago.According to the 1998 skills shortage survey from the Computer Software and Services Association, "operational" skills like Unix and database programming are still more in demand than internet skills - in some cases the shortfall is twice as large"."It is a shame that e-businesses don't recognise the skills that are available in other sectors," says John Eary, the head of skills source consultancy at the National Computing Centre. "The experience that practitioners with traditional IT skills learned in the mainframe environment can be very valuable to companies getting onto the internet. Java and HTML skills are more visible, but underneath there's a complex infrastructure that needs management."Bennie has heard the companies who will be at ExhibIT asking for exactly that sort of candidate. "The overwhelming prerequisite is length of experience," he says.Brian Mulligan, managing director of Easynet Limited, accepts that to get the staff he needs, he will have to train his hires in internet skills."We are hiring in all   departments," he says, "The sector in which we operate is very new, consequently we seldom find the fully finished candidate." Instead, he prefers "promising raw material". One warning for old-timers though: as with most internet companies, "willingness to learn" is a priority, along with "no ingrained habits or pre-conceptions".Mulligan's problems mirror those faced by most internet companies, according to recent research by PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PWC).In a survey of 231 high-tech companies with fewer than 250 employees conducted earlier this year, 51% said that finding the right staff was a barrier to achieving growth targets. That compares to 4% who picked a "lack of money" as a barrier.Four out of five said they were having problems finding and retaining staff, despite huge pay differentials for those with experience.What can the greybeards contribute? Plenty, according to the London School of Economics. Its report "The Digital 100" evaluated the web sites of 100 large brands, and found that few sites provided the reliability and level of customer service to match their sophisticated graphics. "The big issue now is how to manage all these complex technologies," the report concludes, "&#91;to&#93; make them more reliable, secure and more easily managed".Some internet companies have learnt their lesson, and for them, those old-school skills already came first. YAC.com - the company name stands for "you're always connected"- is about to launch a web portal that   will provide a free "single inbox" for voicemail, email and fax, which goes with a free personalised phone number. Chairman Mike Feerick knows YAC's reliability will be compared with a phone company, so the site has to work every time.As a result he has spent much of the seed capital recruiting experienced telecommunications engineers, mostly from BT supplier Nortel Networks, because he believed that reliability and simplicity would sell the service rather than pretty pictures. "We purposely did not add in all the 'bells and whistles'," he explains. "Instead, we concentrated on designing the simplest interface possible."His instruction to his developers was cut down the fussy creative work, and to make sure the site doesn't crash. "Make it simple, colourful and fun and provide a really useful service," he explains.At internet consultancy Organic - which lists brands like The Gap among its clients - UK managing director John Baker wants to   use "traditional"engineering skills too - but finds the internet's "flaky" image puts off some potential joiners. "Engineers traditionally see companies such as Organic as creative shops with limited opportunity," he says. "The reality is that Organic offers technical career growth on a par with companies such as KPMG and Arthur Andersen."It's a similar requirement at the London office of Viant Corporation, where teams made up of creatives, strategists and technicians build web sites for brands like Radio Shack and Kinkos. As a client partner, it's Asim Rafiqui's job to lead a team, and he will take all the technical experience he can find to underpin the creative vision."A lot of the internet and e-commerce was actually built on what we call traditional IT skills," he says. In his team he has some ex-mainframers with 20 years of experience. "Some of the most forward thinking people on the team used to work with character-based screens, and now they're into technology like interactive TV. The fact that they are 10 years older than me means nothing."According to Eary at the NCC, many companies are learning the same lesson. "Technical and network support specialists should be welcomed into the world of e-commerce. Entering a young industry that has many lessons to learn, they would bring valuable experience and understanding to many companies. They might help   avoid costly mistakes."Geoff McMullen, the British Computer Society's vice president specialising in professional issues, groups the skills that greybeards offer into three areas: developing applications, keeping the infrastructure running, and supporting users."There is a need for staff who understand how to write transaction handling programmes that are robust... there is, I think, a case for building on good experience, rather than take new staff who have never written operational systems," McMullen says.The requirements are at their most traditional in customer service: providing reliability, or support for your users, still has to work the same way."It's my experience that service delivery is not very different on the internet than in previous environments. Your previously acquired skills in relevant disciplines are easy to transfer."But for anyone wanting to join an internet company, there are glitches. The PWC survey of small and medium IT companies shows that there isn't much room for on-the-job training: The UK companies surveyed gave an average of 4.9 days of skills training a year, the second-worst in Europe. If you are looking to develop internet skills, you must do it in your own time, it seems. Also, the NCC's Eary points out that the high salaries at these companies mask the sacrifice that experienced professionals must make to join."If a mainframe specialist from the public sector moves to an internet start up, he or she may have to give up years of accumulated benefits," he warns. "Even the higher-than-average salaries in the internet market may not be able to balance that out."But ultimately, transferring your skills to the internet has a pay-off in the 21st century too. "Having an internet company on the CV can increase your employability,"adds Eary. "I would certainly recommend it."
A 900-page novel that hops between world war two code breaking and modern hacker culture, covering cryptography and cypherpunk politics, occasionally making space for lengthy digressions on the maths behind cryptosystems or the correct way to eat Captain Crunch breakfast cereal; let's be honest - it doesn't sound like a sure fire commercial hit.  And I haven't even mentioned the appendix, by the encryption expert Bruce Schneier, about Solitaire, a real encryption system which uses a simple deck of cards and crops up in the novel under a different name.Nevertheless, when it was published in America, at the start of the summer,    Cryptonomicon, by American SF author Neal Stephenson, made the best seller charts, even briefly knocking Harry Potter off the top of the Amazon.com list.  The high ranking is a tribute to Stephenson's status in techno-cultural circles. Put simply, he is the computer geek's author of choice. Mainstream critics still think that William Gibson holds that position - thanks to his invention of the term cyberspace (in his groundbreaking 1984 novel Neuromancer). But Snow Crash, Stephenson's 1992 novel, changed all that. It wasn't just the book's vision of a virtual world (called The Street).It was that, much more than with Gibson, geeks could look at Stephenson and think, "One    of us". He has in the past worked in computer start-ups. He has some knowledge of programming. Recently he put a lengthy essay on GNU/Linux and other operating systems up on the web. Most importantly, his books give the impression that he is as exhilarated as he is spooked by the various new computer technologies he imagines.In person, Stephenson also resembles a computer geek - though, as the webzine Salon noted recently, a particular sub-genus of the species - not the podgy wispy-haired mouse potato but the thin intense, physically wiry type: the kind that chooses their words carefully, the kind that hates repetition and wasted effort. For this interview, the Seattle-based author prefered to correspond via email    rather than talk on the phone, even though it took him longer, primarily, I think, so he could exert more control over his answers.In a bid to speed up repetitive interactions with the press, Stephenson has even posted a Cryptonomicon FAQ on his web pagewww.well.com/user/neal/cypherFAQ.html."FAQs are simply a practical solution to the common problem of having to answer the same question over and over again," he explains. "A suitable FAQ could have obviated 90% of the interviews that I just did on my American book tour."  Cryptonomicon isn't as geek-friendly as you might expect. Many read SF for an idea of where technology is going, of what they (and their companies) should aim at. With its attempts to imagine credible versions of electronic interactive books and nanotechnology, The Diamond Age, Stephenson's last novel (1995) was perfect.But, instead of looking ahead, Cryptonomicon marches    forward into the past.Aside from the odd fantastic touch (the title refers to an imagined book of cryptographic lore, passed down through the ages), at least half of the novel immerses itself in historical detail, focusing on the roots of computer culture in the information battles against the Nazis during WW2. Stephenson says that Cryptonomicon has its roots in a story he read about an incident during WW2 when a dead frogman was dumped into the ocean with fake documents planted on his body, to help explain to the Axis why the Allies knew so many things they shouldn't have.Stephenson covers both sides of this infowar, focusing on Lawrence Waterhouse, a fictional American maths geek (and organist), who works on code-breaking with Alan Turing and uses his organ skills to develop a proto-computer and Bobby Shaftoe, a gung-ho American marine who serves in an imagined special unit that travels the world setting up decoys like the dead frogman.  So how does an SF author approach historical fiction?"An SF writer working on a historical novel tends to see the real world as only one of many possible worlds, and a fairly bizarre and exotic one at that," he explains. "Also SF writers tend to be interested in how their worlds are informed by the available science and technology. It can be quite interesting to bring the same point of view to bear on this world - and particularly the era of WW2, which was so heavily shaped by technologies such as crypto, radar, and nuclear weapons."Running parallel is a second narrative strand, set in the present day, covering the efforts of Lawrence's grandson Randy Waterhouse to set up an offshore data haven in south east Asia. The plots converge around hidden Nazi gold, which the hacker entrepreneurs want to use to underwrite their plans for an electronic currency and a more idealistic scheme to use computer encryption to battle future would-be tyrants and dictators. Some critics suggest that these two plot strands never really come together. Stephenson argues that in a way, they may be right, but    that, to coin a phrase, it's not a bug, it's a feature."It's obvious that modern folks, crypto-entrepreneurs and otherwise, lack heroic purpose. It is obvious to us and it is obvious to Randy. The seeming failure of the two narrative strands to gel is simply a reflection of that fact. Randy ruminates in several places about how he and his comrades all seem like wimps and losers compared to the WW2 generation." The novel (which for all its length and technical detail, whips along like an adventure yarn) really comes together around an examination of the hacker mindset, both modern day and historical (hacker is used in a much looser, more positive sense than is usual these days). Stephenson agrees that there have always been hackers."It is not difficult to find hacker types in history (Archimedes) and even in mythology (Daedalus). Certain ancient cities, such as Alexandria and Syracuse, seemed to attract them. But in previous centuries, hackers had to build physical contraptions in order to realise their ideas. Computers changed this by making it possible for hackers to build functioning mechanisms (ie, computer programs) out of words." UK readers who want to sample Stephenson's writing - in particular, his rather expansive style - should go to the novel's web page    atwww.cryptonomicon.comand download In the Beginning was the Command Line, a long, occasionally wrongheaded, generally fascinating essay about his experiences using different operating systems.It goes from ruminations on using GNU/Linux versus Windows to more general thoughts on everything from Microsoft's mindshare economics, Disneyworld, and the good and bad sides of postmodern relativism.  It provoked a flurry of comment when it appeared on the web (especially at the geek outpost Slashdot), though Stephenson plays this down. "I have heard very little from Windows and MacOS users. So I am afraid that in the end, all I did was preach to the choir."  Does he subscribe to the idealism surrounding GNU/Linux and the Open Source movement?"It's not that Microsoft software is inherently worse than the Open Source stuff, just that Open Source software has a much larger pool of people who can check it for bugs and security faults. I think that these security issues may turn out to be MS's Achilles heel." In part, Command Line argues that that point-and-click interfaces infantilise users, and that command line interfaces are a more honest    way of interacting with computers and of realising what they do and how they affect us. It's a view that seems to fit in with the novel, which, with its digressions on how certain computer technologies actually work, seems to be promoting techno-literacy. Stephenson disagrees."I can understand how one might get this impression, since the novel does have some technically didactic material, but there is no grand scheme afoot here." That said, Cryptonomicon is merely one element in a much larger narrative design, Stephenson explains: "There is a big tangle of interrelated themes here: crypto, language, computers and money. It is pretty fertile ground and I have come up with a few possible story lines, set in different historical epochs. There is a future one that didn't fit into this novel, and another farther in the past that I'm playing around with now. Eventually I hope that these will make it into print as separate novels."&#149; The US edition of Cryptonomicon (Avon Books) is available from net bookshops. Heinemann will publish a UK edition in November. A revised edition of Jim McClellan's best-selling Guardian Guide to the Internet is published today. To order a copy for only &#163;5.99 (p&amp;p free) call 01483 20 44 55.
"Next year will see the bunfight. The one thing that is for sure is that there certainly won't be enough of the right people to go round, so it's a straightforward question of buy now, or else you'll really have to pay later."The speaker is Michael Bennett, national recruitment manager, at the Best International Group, and the people he's talking about aren't the firefighters of Y2K, or the coders of common currency - they are the e-commerce professionals who look set to be the next big thing in computer skills.It has long been predicted that fixing Y2K and accommodating the single currency would act as IT log jams. The Y2K chimera has devoured budgets and displayed a healthy appetite for human resources, leading eventually to the wage wars of the last year as nervous companies brought out the golden handcuffs.With the date dragon dealt with, the demand for the requisite legacy skills was expected to settle down. The good news for beleaguered employers is that it has; the bad news is that the race has already started to snap up the talent for all those IT projects put on hold. And top of just about everyone's shopping list is e-commerce."It is unquestionably e-commerce pushing this," confirms Simon Crockett, operating director of Michael Page Technology Recruitment. "If you think about the FTSE Top 100, they are the kinds of   company that get competitive edge by innovation and the use of information. The resources previously dedicated to Y2K are now freed for development projects to pick up the pace and it is e-commerce that's getting the focus."E-commerce is such an all-encompassing term as to be near meaningless, but of the wealth of skills required some are proving infinitely more valuable than others."The pool of e-commerce expertise is relatively small," observes Crockett. "There is the technical end with the core skills of Java, Javascript, and HTML, and the classic front end web design skills, but most organisations aren't far enough down the e-commerce line to up the ante on front end skills yet. The real problem is in recruiting suitably qualified and experienced business-oriented e-commerce people with pedigree, even though the nature of the business means that 'pedigree' is often curiously short."Bennett agrees: "There are two main areas in demand; there are the technical people with a grasp of the infrastructure, and there are the business and process people. The drive is on to get people who understand both the technical and the business sides, and the industry is struggling to find them."Part of the problem is that the big fish have place their orders first. "Consultancies are snapping them up," notes Bennett. "The likes of Andersens are recruiting as many as they humanly can, so we're telling people to put in their orders for staff now."Good news for the recruitment consultants, then? "It is, but it would be a lot better if there were more suitable people," comments Marese Conaty, head of new media at Price Jamieson. "The problem is that there are a huge number of e-commerce start ups at the moment, especially as American organisations look to expand into Europe and pick London as their starting point."Add that to the existing UK organisations now thrashing out an e-strategy and you start to get an idea of the scale of the challenge.Furthermore the first assault on e-commerce activity is rapidly going to generate a need for a second wave of skilled individuals. "E-commerce is the big thing, but controlling and managing information flow to use it effectively will be crucial if organisations are going to thrive," notes Clare   Curtis, skills manager at Microsoft UK. "The key will be a combination of e-commerce skills combined with effective knowledge management techniques so individuals in a company know exactly how to respond to changes coming from customers. IT skills on their own won't be enough; it will be web developers with a strong business understanding who become more and more important."Unfortunately this sounds as if the second wave of web business is going to demand yet more of these elusive technical/marketing hybrids. Simon Crockett confirms this: "The interesting thing will be CRM - customer relationship management - and that will involve a lot of work in areas of middleware and client relationships which is also where the shortage of skills applicable to CRM and e-commerce overlap in the middle."Having seen the law of supply and demand push wages up for Cobol programmers as Y2K bit, there is always therefore the thought that the same thing will happen in the near future with business-savvy web professionals.Crockett acknowledges the possibility with the proviso that: "I think that if we don't take care there will be irresponsible individuals who will start fires where there didn't need to be any."As he then goes on to note, however, "panics can be in certain individuals' interests". Or to put it another way, next year's "bunfight" might spark off a goldrush down at the e-commerce corral.
If you have ever wished your mobile phone could know you are outside in a noisy street and automatically ring louder, or that you are in a business meeting and stay quiet, help is at hand.Delegates at the recentInternational Symposium for Handheld and Ubiquitous Computingin Karlsruhe, Germany saw the prototype of a tiny board that can allow mobile devices a constant awareness of their operating environment and the activities of their user, and alter their behaviour accordingly.The device is bristling   with sensors to detect light, movement, pressure, temperature, infra-red light, carbon monoxide levels (air quality) and sound. It uses the data to create a continuous "context profile" of the activities of its user (is the person walking, sitting or sleeping?) and the external environment (is it dark or light, quiet or noisy?). For example, if the temperature changes, and background noise and carbon monoxide levels rise, the device will deduce it has moved outside.With data streaming in continually from seven sensors, maintaining a context profile is the equivalent of mapping an object through   seven-dimensional space. To achieve this without vast computing power, algorithms are applied to pick out and interpret only the most relevant data.The device has been produced by TEA -Technology Enabling Awareness- a European research consortium part-funded by the EU and led byStarlab Research, a Belgian company specialising in intelligent devices. Its partners are Italian technology firm Omega Generation, the University of Karlsruhe, and Nokia Mobile Phones.TEA project director Kofi Aidoo says successful tests on the prototype included   detection of being picked up and held - the device identifies the tell-tale tremors of a human hand - and being placed in and carried in a suitcase. He says potential applications include phones that adjust their ringing or display depending on background noise or context; or intelligent message filtering.Walter Van de Velde, Starlab director of research, says TEA devices could include portable city guides that displayed relevant information depending on your location in the city, the weather conditions and the time of day and other contextual information. They   could create an intelligent environment, such as a mall in which shoppers were guided or shown relevant offers (cross-referencing to your electronically stored shopping lists) and shop assistants could offer the right help at the right time.Biosensors could produce   personal health applications such as the intelligent jogging suit that could double as your personal trainer, says Van de Veldes. "It would know how fast you are running, the weatherconditions and the ground you were running on and could instantly update your programme."The project aims to mass-produce a small, generic and affordable device (target retail price around &#163;50) within five years. A more compact version of the prototype TEA sensor board is already in production and should be ready by the end of this month.
Software piratesCutthroatsPC CD-rom Eidos InteractiveThe disturbing trend in games promoting the roleplay of evil continues. After     Kingpin, Gangsters, Grand Theft Auto, Driver and Dungeon Keeper, now we're being encouraged to burn, murder and     pillage our way across the Pacific rim of 1640. Cool, huh? Well, yes, eventually. So complex is the gameplay in this     piratical real-time strategy game that learning the ropes takes an eternity. Do you want to attack the passing ship or flee?Run up the jolly roger, fire a broadside, attempt to board or ram? Use grapeshot, chainshot or muskets? Aim for sails,     deck or hull? Take hostages, press the prisoners into service or kill them? And those are just the naval combat options.     What's more, the high seas are fearful and unforgiving. Even when you're familiar with the controls, your first few dozen     attempts will see you captured and hanged for your crimes before you've had a chance to commit any. The graphics are     straight out of the 17th century, and the statistical overload on the various screens detracts from the buccaneering     atmosphere; yet, in the time it takes to grow a decent-sized beard, you should have dug up an incredibly detailed, highly     engrossing game.  (AB)No treasureRugrats: Treasure HuntNintendo 64 THQ 39.99The path from cartoon to videogame is well-trodden with animated     heroes often popping up in a software guise. However, a licence normally kills developers' imagination, as the volume of     Bugs Bunny or Asterix platform games clearly shows. Taking the lead of the underrated Mario Party, Rugrats tries     something a little different. Using the famous imagination of the babies, the players are transported onto a board game,     set in a number of varied locales ranging from underwater treasure-troves to Egyptian tombs.Gameplay involves simply     rolling an on-screen dice and taking turns to find goodies while avoiding baddies who also patrol the board. The final     game adds some basic trading as you aim to find a full accompaniment of teeth-rotting sweeties. The graphics offer a     fair representation of the cartoon but Angelica's gruesome mouth may cause unintentional nightmares in imaginative     kids. Basic backdrops and bold colours help give that authentic Rugrats atmosphere with grating voices included.     Although the Rugrats are a student fave, the target audience here is children, which means the gameplay is simple     although not always clear. The slightly blurry graphics mean the board icons aren't always as obvious as they could be,     although the randomly generated layouts help retain interest in the longer run. While most N64-owning kids would     probably rather snipe guards on Goldeneye than play this, there is an enjoyable multi-player game on offer. Grown up     children, however, will prefer the increased variety of Mario Party. (GH)Really radTony Hawk's SkateboardingSony PlayStation 39.99 Neversoft/Activision Over the past 25 years the skateboard has
   been sadly neglected as a form of urban transport, and Tony Hawk's Skateboarding won't change that. Indulge in the
   freestyle stunts needed to get high scores in this game, without protective clothing (tut tut), and you wouldn't survive
   the week. Luckily the game is hazardous only to the thumbs, though trying to figure out the scoring system may cause
   brain damage.Suffice it to say, you can ollie and grind in a wide range of imaginative settings, the graphics are excellent,
   and the nasty falls are virtually, if not literally, painful. The two-player options provide a continuing challenge once
   you've mastered the basic game. Unexpectedly, perhaps, this is quality. (JS)
The news is full of stories about the great new car rip-off at the moment, but the motor trade also stands accused of something far more serious - selling second-hand cars that are actually unsafe.This time it isn't the car makers who are in the dock, but the dealers and repairers who are knocking out dangerous and unroadworthy used cars. And the problem is far worse than most people realise. Trading Standards officers estimate that one in every three used cars couldn't even scrape through an MOT test, while the AA find that one in five of all the cars they examine have defective steering, inadequate wipers or an illegal spare tyre, all critical safety items.Far too many used cars are being sold with falsified histories, which means they've been clocked, written-off, stolen, or are subject to unpaid finance agreements. HPI Equifax report that one in three of the used cars they check does indeed have a hidden history of some kind, while one in 12 of all the cars they report on is actually a rebuilt write-off. What all of these findings demonstrate is that this is an industry facing pressing safety and regulatory issues.Last week John Bridgeman, the quietly combative director general of the Office of Fair Trading, spoke out on the situation when he addressed an industry conference organised by   the Institute of Trading Standards Administration (ITSA). "Isn't it a pity that we all have to spend so much of our time in consideration of problems in the motor trade," began Bridgeman. "I wonder why that is, and I wonder why Britain's reputation is far worse than that of most other major countries?"Bridgeman answered his question by first turning on the British traders with no conscience who sell cut-and-shut cars, which are death traps crudely constructed from the halves of two different cars. Such cars often fall apart after minor impacts. I was astonished to discover that selling a cut-and-shut car isn't illegal already. However Tony Allen, the Trading Standards Officer behind the influential Coffins on Wheels report   into the used car trade, explained that the cowboy dealers do already face some real sanctions. From now on cut-and-shut cars will have to display a Q registration plate, where the normal year identifier is replaced by a Q, and if any dodgy dealer tries to use a normal registration letter they could face a prison term of up to 10 years.In his address John Bridgeman also welcomed plans to make mileage recording on registration documents compulsory, and the fact that Trading Standards officers can now go on to the forecourts of dishonest garages and seize un-roadworthy cars. That could certainly be a huge advance in crushing the car crooks, but Tony Allen pointed out that he and his colleagues in Trading Standards simply don't have the resources to undertake the large number of high-profile raids which would be needed to really deter the bent dealers.Dave Rogers of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents provided the human context when he reported that over 40,000 people were killed or seriously injured on our roads last year - although he added that most accidents are caused by human error rather than mechanical failure. Rogers doubted the effectiveness of some of our established car safety mechanisms - including the MOT test itself, questioning the peculiarly British practice of allowing the people who test cars to also do the remedial work. And Tony Allen added - with a   somewhat disbelieving air - that the government had confirmed to him that it is quite happy with the current system, and wouldn't change it even if it was developing a new MOT system from scratch.The overall sense I got from the ITSA conference was that safety standards in the used car trade are far too low, and that our current regulation and enforcement processes simply aren't adequate. But John Bridgeman's speech did contain one glimmer of hope. Because his recent work on new car pricing looks likely to precipitate the biggest shake-up in the sector for a generation, and the uncompromising tone of his conference address suggests that the used car trade might well be his next target.How to make sure you don't buy a second-hand death trap&#149;  When buying from the small ads, watch for crooked traders pretending to be private sellers. Never meet sellers at motorway services, and don't buy at night.&#149;  Whoever you're buying from, take time to check the paperwork. You don't need to be a mechanic to confirm that the car's vehicle identification number (VIN) is confirmed by the V5 (Registration Document). Check the MOT, make   sure that the registration number on the tax disc matches the car itself, and examine any service history or old repair bills. Careful owners keep documents, while car criminals tend to be better at dodgy resprays than paperwork.&#149;  If you're buying through any kind of middle-man, contact the car's previous owner, whose details will be on the V5. Is the mileage correct, and was the car ever smashed-up?&#149;  Buying from the retail motor trade can be a safer option, but you still need to be alert. Look for long-established garages that are members of a trade body called the RMIF, especially if they've got the Fair Trading Award, and also consider the franchised garages' "approved used" schemes, such as Vauxhall's Network Q. These schemes add cost, so make sure that they include a detailed inspection, a vehicle history check and a money-back guarantee.&#149;  Finally have an independent inspection. This is the best way of making sure a used car is safe and honest. It's not cheap (around &#163;175 for a family car) but members of the AA and the RAC get a discount. As well as the examination you will get a computer check to make sure that the car isn't a write-off, stolen or subject to an unpaid finance agreement. If you only do one thing before you buy your next used car, then do this.
What do you drive?A 1965 Mark II Jaguar in indigo blue.What does that say about you?That I'm thankful for a unique design.What do you like about it/not like about it?I like the look of it. I don't like its unreliability - I've thrown a lot of money at that car, and have a healthy distrust of it. It has been renovated but it's only half done. I once got towed back from a wedding by van.Why did you buy it?I'd always had a romantic idea of   owning one. My wife's landlord had one so it was an easy way to buy it; I didn't have to go looking for it.What kind of driver are you?Reckless. I always want to get there as quick as I can without much regard for safety.Any bad habits?The usual things: driving fast over zebra crossing, accelerating towards amber at the lights.Any driving test tales?I passed first time. I had been driving for a year previously with my mate sitting beside me so I was used to it.What was your first car?An old P-reg Maxi.Have you ever crashed/ got a speeding ticket/got any points etc?I've had many crashes, the most memorable was when I was a doctor at Brighton General Hospital - I drove into the exit rather than the entrance and crashed into the chief supervisor's car. And I've had points: three for parking on a zebra crossing, three for speeding, and three for jumping a red at Heathrow.What do you use your car for?Everything except long distances, when I use my wife's Escort because it's more reliable.Have you ever experienced road rage ?Not real road rage as in being attacked but everyone gets wound up.What sort of state is your car in?Pretty trim: it's in good condition.What's in the boot/glove compartment?Petrol and a blanket in the boot and gloves in the glove compartment - it is a glove compartment after all.Have you ever had sex in a car?I don't want to answer that.What music do you listen to on the road?I don't have a tape or CD facility and I can only get medium wave on the radio so it's generally Capital Gold.What would be your dream car?My current car but a better one.Who would be your dream passenger? Why?Jennie Bond, the BBC's royal correspondent. She has an air of authority so if we were ever stopped by the police I'm sure we would be allowed to proceed if they saw Bond was in the car.&#149; The Harry Hill Fun Book, published by Channel 4 Books, is out on Friday, priced 9.99.
The new Nissan Skyline R34 GT-R is ugly, uncomfortable and very expensive. First, the ugliness: it's all scoops, air vents, wheel arches and spoilers - more like something you'd expect to see in a Mad Max film or on a Playstation game than on the road. Now the comfort part - or lack of it: the Skyline treats your skeleton with utter contempt - every tiny bump in the road becomes a sharp blow to your spine.And there are no luxuries to take your mind off the pain - no satellite navigation or electric seats, it's all quite plain inside, cheap even. Which brings us to the price: &#163;54,000. Oh, and it puts away petrol like Jimmy "five bellies" Gardiner puts away pints of lager, and you'll have to remortgage your house in order to insure it - unless of course you've already remortgaged your house to buy it, in which case you'll have to turn to crime.But you should turn to crime. Because if you like driving at all, then you'll find this car deeply pleasing. Jeremy Clarkson said he'd sleep with Robin Cook to get his hands on one. Then he thought about it some more and said he'd sleep with Robin Cook and Ann Widdecombe. I'm not sure    about that but I did fall totally in love with it - for the simple reason that, in a Skyline GT-R, you don't have to slow down for the corners. This is the car that the expression, "corners like it's on rails", was invented for. You could say that 54 grand is quite a lot to pay for the   pleasure of going quickly round corners, but that would make you a spoilsport. So don't.A bit of teccy stuff. The Skyline isn't particularly powerful (276BHP) and it doesn't have a very big engine (2568cc). It's just a very clever car. How about this: most of the time it's rear wheel drive, but it works out electronically when you need some help from the front wheels - like if you're going round a corner, or if you lose a bit of grip over a bump. It just transfers exactly the right amount of power to where it's most needed, all in about a 100th of a second. The rear   wheels even steer a bit. It does countless other clever things, which, when added to a super- rigid chassis and four massive great superlow-profile tyres which stick to the road like chewing gum to the underside of a desk, all add up to a car that will see off just about everything else on the road. Wonderful brakes too. It even started to look quite beautiful in an ugly, vulgar kind of way of course.Inside is a screen which provides you with lots of useful information on G forces, turbocharger pressure, degree of throttle opening, exhaust temperature, stuff like that. So when I say useful, I mean not at all useful. Fine if you're lapping the N&uuml;rburgring, but if you're just pootling (that's right officer, pootling) down to Brighton for the weekend, it's all a bit embarrassing. There's even something called the "red zone" but I didn't dare click on this, for the simply reason that just by sitting in this car I already felt firmly ensconced in the red zone.For the people who buy this car though, all this will be very interesting, because this is a car for serious enthusiasts (and seriously rich enthusiasts). In fact it's more than likely that they will be lapping the N&uuml;rburgring because you can't really do it any sort of justice on the road. This is very much a boys' car; you could tell by the reactions it got - a thumbs up or a knowing nod, all from lads who looked like they knew, and more likely than not had a copy of Top Gear magazine under the mattress.And after a couple of days I was beginning to identify with these people. Maybe Jeremy was right after all. OK, bring on Robin and Ann then.Nissan Skyline R34 GT-RPrice:&#163;54,000Engine:twin turbo, 2,568 cc straight sixPerformance:155mph, 0-60 in 5 secondsThings known just by their initials that make it go faster:MRS, MFCS, YFSC, ABS, NACA, LSD (that's limited slip differential)Buy one if:you're very rich, a boy and you never grew up.Where to go in it:round corners, the N&uuml;rburgringWhat to put on the stereo:Japanese thrash metal
InterknitHow did Monica Lewinsky keep her head? She learned to knit, and a selection of the bags and purses she designed can be found atwww.therealmonicainc.com. Purses start at $70 and bags fetch up to $110. Monica has offered to donate a full dollar to charity for every item purchased. Gennifer Flowers is also cashing in on being a former mistress to the President. Her site atwww.genniferflowers.comsells trashy merchandise and memorabilia from her time with the president, but the Gennifer Flowers Presidente Cigar really takes the biscuit. Both sites are genuine.Cold comfortAlthough not the first British supermarket to offer online shopping, Iceland is the first to offer such a service nationwide:www.icelandfreeshop.comwas launched on Monday and is available to anyone within a 10-mile radius (three miles in London) of one of their stores. Orders have to be at least &#163;40.Lies inc.One of the most unscrupulous sites to emerge of late iswww.ace-alibi.com. Offering an unlimited supply of alibis for &#163;20 membership, the agency claims to be able to supply phoney business invitations, and a telephone service pretending to be somebody else on your behalf. Its frequently asked questions? "I'm pretending I am staying in Wales, who will answer the phone?"Don't panicBilled as the Earth Edition of the Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy.www.h2g2.comhas been authorised by Douglas Adams but is filling up with content from the people who actually use it. It functions like the guide from the radio series, is fully searchable and even has the "don't panic" button. It is a witty and playful encyclopaedia that renders contemporary history as if it was part of the ancient past. Bookmark it as soon as possible - you never know when the Vogons will decide to build their next intergalactic bypass.Take the testEver wondered how many more days you can expect to live? The death test atwww.thespark.com/deathtest, calculates how long you have left by assessing your lifestyle.AtomfilmsAtom films atwww.atomfilms.comis a Real Video channel specialising in short films, animation and trailers. Art-house films abound, but there is a surprising amount of mainstream work like Wallace and Gromit and shorts from the BBC's 10x10.Six of the best:Auction sitesA touch of Hollywoodhttp://store.universalstudios.com/usauctionTrading placewww.ebay.co.ukLots of lootwww.qxl.comVirtual thrift shopwww.webcharity.comDictator bootyhttp://ceausescu.ines.roAs if by magicwww.magicauction.com
Dreamcast awakesSega will launch its next-generation Dreamcast games console in the UK next Thursday, and retailers are keen to cash in. Dixons says it expects there to be a shortage of the &#163;199.99 machines but it will reserve one for a &#163;20 deposit. Electronics Boutique will open more than 100 of its shops at midnight on Wednesday night for buyers who just can't wait until the next morning. Since Dreamcast is the first games console to ship with a modem and internet access, online service suppliers are also watching the launch. The main ones includeEgoManiacs.net, which will run Sega'sHeat.netEurope online service, andGameplay.com, which will supply online games and run a co-branded shopping site. Gameplay.com bought out British Telecom's dial-up games network, Wireplay.Take twoYet another British games developer has been taken over by the Americans - but in this case it was already owned by the French. Take-Two Interactive Software, from New York, has bought Dundee-based DMA Design from Infogrames for $11m in cash. Take-Two has been distributing DMA's successful Grand Theft Auto games in the US. The Scottish company is now working on Grand Theft Auto 3D and Grand Theft Auto Online Crime World, but it's still best remembered in the UK for its    pioneering-puzzling hit series for Psygnosis: Lemmings.Inept winnersLondon's Inept won &#163;10,000 and the UK's first PC Games Championship held at The Playing Fields games bar in London last month. In finals that lasted from 9am until 10pm, the four-man team triumphed over Glasgow's Happy Campers and four other squads from regional qualifying heats. Each team member also won a &#163;2,000 from chip-maker AMD, which sponsored the competition.Play onSony has just released a double CD called Double Life: Music for PlayStation. One disc has 19 music tracks by the usual suspects - Manic Street Preachers, Jamiroquai, Kula Shaker,    Orbital, Ocean Colour Scene etc. The other has demo versions of eight PlayStation games including Omega Boost, Crash Team Racing, Um Jammer Lammy and Wip3out.Harley burleyMore than 30 years ago, a movie called Easy Rider infected baby boomers with the idea that it would be cool to don some shades and ride a Harley-Davidson across America, just like Peter Fonda. Most never did, of course. Now they can do it virtually on their PCs thanks to Harley Davidson - Race Across America. The &#163;14.99 game from GT Value offers a choice of five bikes and involves a race to the Sturgis Bike Rally. It's an affordable bit of nostalgia, though the Easy Rider music CD is cheaper and requires less effort to play.
Nowadays, everyone in London seems to have a business plan in their back pocket in the frantic mating dance between internet entrepreneurs and hard-nosed investors. Every success story, such as Lastminute.com, which sells anything from plane tickets to theatre tickets at short notice, only feeds the fever.But although London is swinging with investors looking for the next big thing, they are not showing the money as much as entrepreneurs would like. The ones in the trenches scoff at articles with headlines such as "A millionaire a week".That is rubbish, says Susan de Sousa, as pushy as any entrepreneur can be. Despite the proliferation of networking events, she says, it is still hard to connect with a reputable investor.De Sousa was networking assiduously at a recent "young internet millionaires dinner" in the august setting of the National Liberal Club, with its gleaming ceramic tiles, arches and columns on Whitehall Place. The event was a networker's dream. In the bar, under a huge picture of Gladstone, eager entrepreneurs were making their pitch to venture capitalists; business cards were being exchanged thick and fast. Internet guru Esther Dyson was holding court, showing off the new jacket she had just bought in Moscow.De Sousa had no qualms about buttonholing Brent Hoberman, co-founder of Lastminute.com, one of Britain's hottest internet start-ups, for advice and contacts."There are a lot of very dodgy people around and the reputable money will tell you to sod off," she said. "The key way to get funding is through referrals. It's all about contacts."Tim Cole, managing   director of sseyo, an internet music software company, agrees on the importance of good contacts. "You have to be well-connected. Forget about the meritocracy, it is very, very difficult. Most investors won't commit until you have &#163;1m in turnover," says Cole. Inexperienced entrepreneurs have to be careful as to how much of the company they give away in exchange for venture capital. "The greener you are the more likely they are to invest in you so they can get more," he warns.Hoberman maintains it has never been so easy to find money, but he managed to come up with an original idea coupled with a respected management team, a dream combination that eludes most start-ups.The UK undoubtedly is attracting investors from Europe and the US, eager to find the next big payoff. US venture capital firms such as Atlas Ventures and Apax, along with their European counterparts like New Media Investors, Arts Alliance and Crescendo Ventures, are scouring not just the UK, but France and Germany for opportunities. An estimated $3bn in venture capital is looking for promising start-ups and the inflow of money has accelerated in the past six months.But the money men are afraid of making dud investments and complain about the poor quality of proposals landing on their desks by the hundreds.One big problem is the lack of staff to screen the deluge of proposals. Staffing at every level - among   internet companies and venture capitalists - is a big problem. So although money is sloshing around in the UK, it takes "for bloody ever" to get hold of dosh, says one entrepreneur.One way of cutting through the white noise is by way of contacts via networking groups like Digital People, First Tuesday and Fourleaf.com. But success stories such as Lastminute.com are very much the exception, says Roeland Boonstoppel of Crescendo Ventures. He cites factors such as the lack of operational experience among British entrepreneurs and the lack of uniform option plans, so prevalent in the US. Nevertheless, Boonstoppel sees "tremendous opportunities in the UK" and has just opened a London office for Crescendo.The recent arrival of American venture capital and the appearance of incubators, or investors that will provide an office and other support, is ample proof that London - and Europe - is the next frontier for internet investments.American money has come to the UK in three waves.The first was made up by internet companies like Yahoo! and Excite. Corporate venture funds followed as companies like Intel and Oracle arrived. In the past six months, pure American venture capital has arrived, partly because of a scarcity of quality deals in America.Because Europe is at an earlier stage of development, US venture capitalists see European entrepreneurs as less demanding than their American counterparts."There has been a sea change in the last six months," says Murray Hancock, founder of Fourleaf.com, which provides a database for entrepreneurs and investors to find each other. "It has a lot to do with Freeserve &#91;the internet service provider started by Dixons&#93; a year ago. And when the Financial Times carried a story on Currentbun &#91;the Sun site&#93; people in the City realised that Freeserve was not a flash in the pan. People saw that News Corporation was putting its biggest-selling title on the web."In this frenzied atmosphere, investors will pounce on anyone with a shred of credibility, hence the flurry of excitement at reports that Financial Times journalists Will Lewis and Robert Peston were about to set up an internet company. They were bombarded by investors offering them money until they knocked down the idea. But few entrepreneurs have the cachet of working for the FT and for most it is a hard slog.Many make the mistake of sending their proposals to investors who are not interested in that particular field. "There are entrepreneurs who are not doing research into investors and their particular interests. Why would an investor read about an idea he is not interested in?" says Hancock.Juraid Anwer, formerly a general manager with Cable &amp; Wireless, is one of the hopefuls looking for money. Older than your typical entrepreneur, Anwer has been on the circuit for two months trying to interest investors in a site targeted at women. He admits to being naive in thinking that he would find money within two months. He hopes his experience will entice investors into entrusting money with him rather than some 25-year-old.The most common response he gets is that it's already been done before and that it's a paper plan that needs to be fleshed out operationally. "I'm in a frog kissing business," he says. "I've got to find the frog, get close to it and do the deal."
Students have been studying computing as if it was a branch of mathematics, says professor Malcolm Crowe, head of the department of computing and information systems at the University of Paisley. "That doesn't go down too well with employers."Talk to any of the 70 firms recruiting at the Graduate IT Fair in Manchester's G-Mex Centre starting on October 8, and the academic study of computing is a long way down the list of requirements."We want people with get-up-and-go. Managers of the future. Business analysts," says Andrea Gill, HR consultant for BUPA."We're not necessarily looking for technical people," says Keith Gulliver, foundation employment manager at IBM Global Services, "we want passion and desire and problem-solving abilities. We have a lot of excellent programmers with humanities degrees.""Frankly I couldn't give a stuff what university they went to," says Sue Caren, graduate recruitment manager for CSC. "Academia is not as highly rated as it used to be."You might think that passion and desire would be a long way from the top of this list for IBM, or that get-up-and-go isn't what a company needs in an industry where the skills shortage makes it easy for skilled staff to get up and go to another company.But these responses agree with a recent survey by the department for education and employment. When it asked 700 firms what they wanted from graduates, practical ability (44%) and interpersonal skills (28%) were top of the list. Recent graduates working for the company agreed, naming team working, logical thinking and the ability to work without supervision as the three most important skills."Last year we found the highly motivated people we needed," says Gill at BUPA, who is offering a starting salary of around &#163;18,000. "But we had to assess an awful lot of people before we found what we wanted. The last graduate fair we went to, we didn't get anyone. Not one."So what are the turn-ons for IT's graduate recruiters? "Practical experience is essential if they want to walk into a highly-paid job," warns Sadie King, the market development manager for recruitment consultancy JobLoop, an offshoot of Elan Computing set up to target the best graduates. King adds that when employers request technical skills, they are looking for newer disciplines, like the ability to develop web-based applications. And with some companies cutting back on graduate recruitment while they spend their IT budgets on the Year 2000 and EMU (European Monetary Union) projects, she says, a good degree alone isn't enough to land a top trainee position.At CSC, Caren says she would favour redbrick graduates with some work experience over Oxbridge graduates with none. Work experience makes candidates more realistic about the hard work ahead of them. "We sometimes hear from students who have done a doctorate, have no work experience, and think they will fill a wonderful position. That's not going to happen."Instead, CSC's graduate trainee programme, currently taking 120 people a year, aims to pick candidates who can work in a team and motivate themselves. "We aim to give our trainees real projects to work on from day one," she warns. "We give them the true story about working for CSC, not a glossy brochure saying it's all rosy. Because it isn't."At IBM, Gulliver agrees that some potential candidates have an unrealistic expectation, fed by the fashionable image of a job in the hi-tech business. Instead, the 400 graduate trainees taken on by IBM this year will find   their first steps a lot less glamorous. They do a five-week induction course where they are trained in all the things that universities ignore: how to plan and organise a working day, how to negotiate, even how to make a presentation."Our job is to nurture them as individuals," Gulliver explains. "This certainly isn't a boot camp, but it builds up camaraderie and the informal networking that is so important in the workplace."If they have been exposed to the day-to-day problems of the IT department, many IT graduates will have an edge, says Rachel Southerton, graduate recruitment manager for Halifax plc. "We recruit from any discipline for our IT department, but we did consider closing down the selection to people with IT degrees only. That's because people who have done IT know what they are letting themselves in for. And you have to be keen on IT, because we're not actively looking for management potential in our grads."That practical experience isn't easy to come by. Employers now admit that they have not done enough to encourage undergraduates by offering them genuine work experience. CSC for example, will start its first industrial placement scheme this year. "Students recognise that industrial placements have a bad reputation," says Caren, "The negative feedback we hear is that they are given no proper tasks, are not reimbursed and are treated as The Student.""Our industrial trainees are now advocates for our company too," says Gulliver. "They can tell their friends: 'IBM is a good company to work for, because I wasn't just doing the photocopying'."Despite the efforts of some employers to give undergraduates practical experience, much of that responsibility still rests on the universities. It's not a role that higher education has historically done well. A 1998 NOP poll showed that two thirds of universities and colleges of higher education believed their graduates were well equipped for industry. Among potential employers, only one in five felt the same.Nevertheless, there are signs that many universities are adapting courses to fit the needs of industry, or offering courses to give non-technical graduates a start in IT."Look how many (univeristy) departments have Microsoft software. Not many. But that's the sort of experience that IT companies want. I find it rather weird," says professor Crowe, who is chairing a group of 20 universities in the Higher Education Curriculum Project to try and   close that gap.The students on his computing courses also learn the "soft" skills that employers value: interpersonal communication, problem-solving and teamwork. "We think its something you can teach in courses, but it's controversial," he admits. "In order to find space for it, you have to give ground in other areas."His department, like some others, is finding a heavy demand for practically-oriented "conversion courses" to teach the basics of technology to graduates from other disciplines. This year, 500 graduates will learn the basics of business computing at Paisley, focusing on "precisely the skills that the industry wants", professor Crowe says. "At Paisley, for example, we use Microsoft products in all our labs."Mike Harling, the group HR (human resources) director for consultants FI Group, thinks that a change in attitude is already showing through among the best graduates. "We are seeing some with very strong abilities to work in teams, with drive and a push to succeed," he says. Having recruited from all disciplines in previous years, this year FI Group is strengthening its technical resources by recruiting only graduates with IT skills.Nerds need not apply. "We turn down more people in interviews on their lack of interpersonal skills than for any other reason," he says. "You'd always like people with   a bit more knowledge about how the world works. Graduates with a year's work experience for example have their feet firmly on the ground. But the last two years, our trainees have certainly had enough ambition."Harling also dismisses the idea that skills shortages in IT mean that standards are falling in graduate recruitment. "There's masses of talent coming from our universities - very bright people. What we have lacked in the past in the UK is the ability to make the best of it. It's our job as employers to take raw material, and make something of it."Part of that, Harling admits, is "setting expectations" - a euphemism for convincing graduates that their career isn't all about six-figure salaries and share options. "They believe they can go from graduate to chief executive in a short number of years. We tell them it might take three or four years longer than that."Skill shortage or not, many graduates will find that getting a job in IT is the beginning of their education, not the end of it. But if the day-to-day job may not be as glamorous as it seems, there are compensations - and with some exhibitors at the fair offering starting salaries of up to &#163;30,000, that compensation can be substantial."Having a flashy stand helps to attract the best candidates," says Caren at CSC. "They think, 'This company's loaded'."Number of UK IT graduates at first degree level (also BCS)1994/958,2001995/969,1001996/979,1501999 median starting salaries for graduates(&#163;)IT/Computing	19,000Scientific/technical/ engineering 	18,874Sales/marketing 	18,250Accounting 	18,000&#149;  Source: Association of Graduate RecruitersPercentage of companies experiencing a shortfall in graduate  recruitmentScientific/technical/ engineering 	21.1Management 	10.9IT/Computing 	10.2Accountancy 	6.0Marketing/sales 	4.5Legal 	1.9&#149;  Source Association of Graduate Recruiters
The new revolution will stop people leaving their homes. We will never talk to our families, and relationships will fall apart. Books, theatre and cinema will all die out.Remarks like this were made in the early 1950s about television. Their echoes can be heard today in the voices of those who fear the net will create a generation of pallid anoraks capable of communicating only with a computer screen.Dr Sherry Turkle of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has stated that the net leads to the destruction of meaningful community and social integration. Many parents worry that it will endanger their children's development and lead to net addiction.But the available evidence, according to Dr Helen Petrie, specialist in internet psychology at Hertfordshire university, all points in the opposite direction. A research project by James Katz and Philip Aspden (1997) found that long-term use of the net had little impact on relationships with family and friends and often showed an increase in contact. Long-term users were more likely to belong to religious and community organisations. The evidence showed that it was extremely common for net users to meet and make new friends on the net. As their internet experience increased, the number of friends grew, as did physical meetings with new friends.Dr Petrie's own experience, professional and personal, confirms this. She supervised the Microsoft experiment earlier this year in which four volunteers were locked in a hotel room for a week with only an internet terminal for company."I was concerned about their isolation, but in the event, they were overwhelmed by help and support from netizens with emails arriving   at the rate of one a minute! The four subjects felt very connected and even yearned to be left alone to explore cyberspace in peace," she said.Last night, as I did research for this article, AnnaMaria23 dropped into my monitor for a chat by way of an instant messaging screen, asking politely, if I was free to talk. She's a retired teacher, living in Barcelona, her brother is a classical guitarist and we haven't met. Yet.We became acquainted after she had seen some messages I'd posted at Dr TootsNeurophilosophyhole, a Yahoo! club concerned with the connections between psychology and philosophy. Using facilities provided by Yahoo, she was able to contact me and offer to "be my friend".The first time this happened, when "Ron" appeared, was quite a shock; I was writing an email and had no idea how to react. The messaging screen felt like an intrusion, like finding a naked stranger in my sitting room. I panicked, clicked the wrong button and Ron disappeared for ever. Sorry, fella.BigDick wanted to know what sort of bra and knickers I wore but vanished after I said I was fifty, fat and flatulent! Still, Anna, NKM 14 and my best cyberfriend Xenophile47, a Sufi mystic with a wicked sense of humour, are often in touch and my email gets bigger every day.Thanks to Microsoft it will soon take a quantum leap: I now possess the ultimate in    millennial status symbols, my own website, The Pleasure Dome, a club for writers. The webspace and software were free as part of MSN Communitieshttp://homepages.msn.com, a project which has only recently opened to the general public yet already has more than 2,000 sites on 2,000 topics.Mine took about 40 minutes to construct despite a total ignorance of the web-page programming language, HTML . I spent most of that time deciding which of the typefaces and graphics on offer would look best, and how to phrase my welcome message. I've got a message board, chat software for real time arguments, email facilities, a photo album, links and member profiles. All I need now are some members to fill in those profiles; so far, it's only me and Jorge, from Turkey, who doesn't speak very good English but writes poetry.Nickie Smith, the product manager of MSN.co.uk said: "The web is the perfect medium for bringing people together and we wanted to offer a set of tools that people   could learn to use easily, to overcome the fear barrier."Many people, including me, suffer from technofear, a non-rational anxiety that something dreadful will happen which inhibits full use of the net's facilities and stops many potential MSN customers from buying a computer and getting on to the net. Feedback to MSN's search team showed that women net learners needed and wanted more support than men, who enjoy learning through experimentation. Communities of interest are particularly attractive to women, with their nature/ nurture desire to create and reinforce relationships.In his book, Business@ The Speed Of Thought, Bill Gates sees building communities as the next big growth area. He calls the net "the town square for the global village of tomorrow".If the success of Six Degrees of Separation - a web community set up four years ago - is taken into account, his prediction appears accurate. Each member of Six Degrees must   nominate at least two other people as potential members. Its membership has grown from a few dozen to an astounding 2,806,739 individuals with approximately 700 of them online at any given time. Members have access to news, clubs, a job search, educational activity, competitions and special offers, discounts for online shopping and a friendship/ dating service.We seem to have a profound need to make contact with others, to be part of something larger than ourselves. Emile Durkheim, a pioneer in psychology and sociology, identified "anomie" - isolation - as a predictor of mental illness and suicide.But some striking research by Dr Adam Joinson of the university of Glamorgan shows that net users tend to be more self focused and therefore more self -knowledgeable than non-users. They disclose a lot more about themselves in chats and emails than in terrestrial contact. This is probably due to lack of accountability, to the distance and anonymity of nettalk, plus the security of working in the   familiar peace of one's home or office."Adolescent boys and young men," said Dr Joinson, "find the net an effective testing ground for social stratagems, for experimenting with presenting their personalities, a secure place to discuss their problems with a peer group, or for seeking advice on emotional problems. Half of the postbag for America Online's Agony Uncle is from boys."Health sites with support groups, chats and links can be found online for every physical and mental illness or disability and are particularly valuable for those whose problems make travelling difficult.When Mary, a graduate in computer studies, was hit by depression, she found the online resources invaluable. "I was able to research my illness, the drugs I was given, meet people with the same problems. When I got really down, when I felt suicidal, I accessed a crisis intervention service. I know about the Samaritans but it was a lot easier going through the net."Now she supports other   people with depression and finds that a great source of reassurance, of self esteem - and a way of rebuilding her terrestrial social life.The net's ability to deliver information and education has taken the terminals into community centres and libraries, connecting terrestrial and cyber communities.Chris Foster, divisional manager of North Warwickshire Libraries, placed net terminals in seven libraries two years ago as part of an IT initiative combined with the National Grid for Learning. They've been immensely popular, constantly booked, and Nuneaton Library now has a trained IT librarian plus Dan Toman, a senior IT support assistant.Whole families surf together at the libraries, as do small groups of friends and couples, while life swirls around them. This confirms Microsoft research showing that travelling in cyberspace is often a social activity, a family affair. And those who have a home terminal like to invite the neighbours in to share their pleasures. In the   50s they watched the BBC experimenting with new forms of drama, documentary and entertainment; in the last months of the 90s, they log in to BBC Online to discuss EastEnders.Audiences have fragmented. Ten people in an office may well have watched or heard 10 different programmes, but the net allows them contact with those who share their interests or outlook. "Loneliness," wrote Marilyn French, "isn't longing forpeople. It's longing for your own kind of people."The most popular website at BBC Online, according to Johnathan Drori, head of commissioning for BBC Online, is the Teletubbies site   which he visits with his small daughter.After GCSE Bitesize - an online revision service which was fantastically popular and included discussion groups, chat plus being able to email a teacher - and Online Support campaigns like Fighting Fit, Fighting Fat, the BBC is experimenting with experiential learning.Drori insists that BBC Online's policy must be a continuation of the Beeb's traditional mandate to educate, entertain and inform. He also wants it to be "a cultural patron, commissioning innovative, interactive artworks and experiences; a source of online content motivated by something other than money".The BBC is creating three-dimensional virtual environments, a room, a garden, a world in which the viewer is represented by an avatar, a symbolic person which the viewer can control, a project which won the Royal Television Society Gold Medal. As you move, the perspective changes; you can see and hear other people, talk to them, move away from   them. A virtual hamlet is in the works.The net itself can be seen as a community, made up of many linked communities, like the web rings that join up communities on similar topics. It has been estimated that any given site on the net is only 19 clicks away from any other site.Individuals connect to sites, sites to communities, communities to one another until we are all linked, netizens of the cyberspace world. Far from losing our social skills, we hone and develop them on the net, learning how to live, to act more effectively in "real" time and space.Could the next step be turning the net world into a functioning political entity, self governing, marvellously informed and capable of democratic self regulation, interfacing with terrestrial governments and solving the problems of e-commerce, child protection, hacking and virus attacks?There's probably a community, somewhere in cyberspace, already talking about it.
When did you first get involved with computers?In 1983, it was a Sirius, no hard disk - you had to boot up with a program disk and there were what I still think of as the real 5  and a 1/4 inch floppy.What do you use your computer for?I have a Pentium-based Gateway computer for my writing. I have a vast database and I do a lot of my book research on it. Very occasionally I use it for my accounts. Also, because I travel a lot, I use a Psion Series 5.Do you use the internet much?Largely for research. I read a lot of newspapers online: Washington Post, New York Times. If you go to "favourites" on my computer there are a lot of Chinese sites, although you do need special software to view them - things like China's foreignministry, Chinese history library, China's News Digest, Bejing Review. There's also a Tibet newsgroup that I subscribe to.Would you like to see the net regulated?On the whole, I'd rather it weren't. For instance, the Chinese have blocked all kinds of sites but determined hackers can always get round it.Do you see much sign of the information age in China and Tibet?It's only been in the past couple of years that people in China have had email addresses but a lot of stuff is being distributed via the internet and it's making a huge difference. In Tibet it's still very much in it's infancy. One big change there is people using mobile phones.Is there a thirst for technology there?Among those who appreciate what it is and what it can do... in other words, in the cities and among the young. In the last year to 14 months I've travelled to a number of obscure places and almost everywhere, I can usually get on the net. Even in Rwanda a couple of months back I was able to get online. However, two miles outside the city centres, where there's no phone line or running water, you realise that it's also creating inequities within countries as well as between countries.How important is your computer to your work?I do remember the days of typewriters, when you sat there bashing away making five copies, a paragraph a page, and if you made a mistake you had to re-type the whole thing. It was such an extraordinary waste of time and I'd hate it if I had to go back.Have we become too reliant on technology?Yes, but it's like being too reliant on electricity - if it's taken away it's a bit of a problem. I think there are problems in journalism which are to do with the way news organisations have put people in outer suburbs, given them computer screens and cut them off from the real world. It's very bad for journalists not to circulate in the real world. Seeing the world through filtered through a screen is not the same thing.
Apple's interim chief executive Steve Jobs has unveiled three upgrades to the year-old iMac, the colourful computer that helped turn Apple's fortunes around by selling about 2 million units since its launch last autumn.The new machines - which Apple UK says will all be available in Britain by the end of the month - are priced aggressively, starting at &#163;799 including VAT for the new entry-level iMac and rising to &#163;1,199 including VAT for the digital video disk (DVD) -equipped iMacDV Special Edition."The iMac has been a landmark product, not just for Apple but for the whole industry," Jobs told an audience at the Flint Center in Cupertino, California, on Tuesday. He said that Apple   planned to bring video to the desktop with the new machines, as it had brought publishing to the desktop in the 1980s, and unveiled software which would make video editing "incredibly easy" for home and school users.The new iMacs feature more powerful processors than their predecessors, as well as increased memory, larger hard drives and faster graphics chips. But they will not have cooling fans - a Jobs pet hate."We've made the computer beautiful to look at," he said.   "Now we want to make them beautiful sounding."The machines are being targeted at schools and the consumer market, with the low prices being interpreted   as a defensive move against PC price wars in the Windows/ Intel market, which have taken the price of some machines below $500 in the US.The new iMacs will ship with Apple's long-awaited operating system, Mac OS 9, which will contain a raft of new features to aid internet navigation, including version two of Apple's Sherlock search engine.The new OS will allow multiple users to share the same Mac while keeping their individual settings and preferences. It has built-in encryption and password management, including voice-activated passwords.OS9 will sell separately in the UK from October 28. It will cost &#163;79.Later this month, for the   first time, buyers will have a three iMac models to choose from, each sporting different configurations.The revised "standard iMac" with 350MHz processor will cost &#163;799 including VAT, against &#163;925 for the current 333MHz model.Two higher-end iMacDV models will include a slot-load DVD (Digital Versatile Disc) drive to play movies on the machine's 15-inch screen.Sound will be delivered through hi-fi speakers by Harmon Kardon, designed to give better bass resonance than typical PC speakers.Harmon Kardon will also release a subwoofer, specially designed for Macs, which will connect to the USB port.The DV models will have two ports for the high-speed FireWire (1394) system for connecting peripherals like digital camcorders, and   Apple's new iMovie software for creating "pro-quality home and classroom movies".The top of the range &#163;1,199 400MHz "special edition" model will come in the same graphite grey as the G4 machines announced last month, with a 13GB hard drive and 128MB of memory.The announcement of the new Macs follows a difficult few weeks for Apple.After unveiling its G4 "supercomputer on a chip" system at the end of August, Apple warned analysts to expect lower earnings for its fourth quarter because of supply problems with the new machine's Motorola-made PowerPC processor.However, the company is expecting a strong run-up to Christmas. Jobs is promising to fulfil orders and to ramp-up production to deal with the holiday season rush.
