Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
In the wake of Barack Obama's White House victory last week, all the talk is about how his team canuse the internet for political change. But while Valleywag might wantObama to start using his Twitter account again, my request is even more simple: stop sending me emails trying to get me todonate to an election campaignthat finished a week ago. Here's the full text, in case you missed it:=======In the months and years ahead, we're going to accomplish amazing things together. No president has ever had the support of such a powerful grassroots movement, and Barack and Joe will need you to continue fighting alongside them.But before we take the next step, we need to get our house in order.The Democratic National Committee poured all of its resources into building our successful 50-state field program. And they played a crucial role in helping Barack win in unlikely states like North Carolina and Indiana. We even picked up an electoral vote in Nebraska.The DNC took on considerable debt to make this happen.Make a donation of $30 or more now to help the DNC pay for these efforts, and you'll get a commemorative 2008 Victory T-shirt.Help the DNC and get a 2008 Victory T-shirtThe DNC began building a 50-state organization in 2005.The infrastructure they put in place over the last four years opened up a new batch of battleground states where a Democratic nominee hadn't been competitive for a generation.In the final few months, the DNC went above and beyond to expand our ground efforts and ensure victory.We couldn't have won this election without their support.As we start laying the groundwork for real change, we need to help the DNC recover the resources it took to win. Please make a donation today and get your 2008 Victory T-shirt:https://donate.barackobama.com/victoryshirtThis movement for change is just getting started, and we look forward to working with you to bring the change this country needs.Thanks for everything you did to elect Barack and Joe,Obama for America========
UK groupLost Levelsare hugely influenced by videogame music, and indeed, videogames in general, ploughing an intriguing furrow between indie pop and the USblipcore scene. For their latest single release, Early Sheets, the chaps hiredSteve Jones, a recent graduate of Games Art and Design from Norwich Uni to create the video. The result is a brilliant pastiche of retro gaming tropes, based around a fictional 8bit hero, Enzo the Explorer, who escapes his 2D platformer environment, eventually ending up in the real world."Having listened to the band's music, and understanding their influences, I thought a retro 8bit-looking video would really suit the song," explains Jones. "I looked at games like Dig Dug, Pitfall, Repton Thru Time, and of course Mario, and after a few initial sketches, Enzo was born." The video took four months to complete, with much of that taken up rendering the 'real world' sequence. The whole thing was created on a single PC, using Nevercenter Silo for modelling and Maya for animation, texturing and rendering. The video was then edited together in Sony Vegas.Have a look and see what you think...
Paul Carr sits in forAleks Krotoskiin this week's Tech Weekly - and he brings you...Sarah Lacy - notorious for herinterview with Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg at last year's South by Southwest festival- comes in to chat about her new book: "The Stories of Facebook, Youtube and Myspace: The People, the Hype and the Deals Behind the Giants of Web 2.0"As she's also a Business Week columnist from Silicon Valley, presenter of Yahoo's tech ticker show, and something of a tech celebrity, we couldn't help but also ask her opinion of the Yahoo/Microsoft saga too.We also hear from Stefan Oberg, the Skype Vice President.  He tells us how the business is maturing - thought the company isn't running out of people to sign up to it's services.  He discusses a recent breach of privacy at a Chinese partner, and Skype's mobile ambitions.Also in the studio isCharles ArthurandBobbie Johnsonis on the line from San Francisco. There's this week's news and highlights from the blog too.Don't forget you can:• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Steve "Chippy" Paine, formerly of British Telecom but now of theUMPC Portal, has published a free 33-pageUltra Mobile Computing Buyers Guide(PDF). It doesn't review the hundreds of different products, but it does provide a concise overview of the various types of device and the main chips, screens, storage systems, operating systems and other technologies involved. It's a useful read if you are thinking about this sort of device.If you follow the site, yes, it has been published there as a four-part series….
Okay, okay, I know some of you are going to have a facetious answer for that headline, but hold on a second. Screen Digest recently predicted that the UK mobile games market will be worth £80.5m in 2012, while Juniper Research has the worldwide business hitting $10b by the end of next year. Yet the likes of Namco, Capcom and Konami have been a little patchy in producing games for markets outside of Japan. At least as far as I'm concerned.Okay, things are certainly improving. Konami, of course, has a publishing deal with Glu, and now boasts a dedicated studio in Paris currently pumping out mobile titles for the European market – the excellent PES 2009 tie-in being a good example. Compelling miniature versions of Silent Hill and Castlevania have also arrived this year for Euro handsets. However, I've yet to hear about a UK release forDanceDanceRevolution Mobius, Contra 4 orMetal Gear Classic, an enhanced remake of the MSX original.Meanwhile, Capcom and Namco are bothapparently re-organising their mobile departmentsto ramp up their European operations. The former has been teasingly inconsistent, providing gems like Bionic Commando Rearmed, Warriors of Fate and Resident Evil: The Missions, interspersed with so-so casual fare like Are You Smarter Than a Ten-Year-Old. Sadly, we're unlikely to see the forthcomingmobile version of legendary RPG series Breath of Fireor the interesting-looking 3D adventure, Rockman DASH - Grand 5 Island Adventure. And surely the company's great work with console DLC, namely Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo and Mega Man 9 would have been perfect on iPhone? Ah well, at least the promising N-Gage title Resident Evil Degeneration is a shoe-in for a European release.Namco is offering a similar mix of casual and retro titles. The company's recent X Factor tie-in – which they've just sent to me - is a title aimed squarely at non-gamers who won't be interested in the publisher's usual output – i.e. conversions of Pac-Man. Unsurprisingly it's a sort of rhythm action adventure, giving you control of a customisable hopeful as they sing and dance through a series of auditions and performances. Singing is simply a case of hitting the 2, 5 or 8 keys at the right time as notes scroll across the screen – it's possible to pick up extra points by hitting the star or X Factor icons, but the scrolling speeds up if you accidentally hit a broken note. There's also a dancing challenge where you press up, down, left or right in accordance with the onscreen display.There are no licensed tracks just a repetitive tune that bleeps annoyingly in the background. The game still manages to be faintly compelling though – if only because the basic framework is so familiar to lovers of the big rhythm action brands. The minigames - which become available between auditions - are quite funny, too, combining drum-playing and extended singing challenges with stuff like Disco, where you have to meet your adoring fans, and Shopping where you navigate a maze to reach items of clothing before computer-controlled enemies – sort of like Pac-Man, but set in Primark.On the subject of Pac-Man, Namco has also announced Pac-Man Pinball 2, sequel to the popular retro-flavoured pinball sim. This time there's support for your phone's vibrate function as well as a Pac-Man minigame and three new tables. Of course, what I'd most like to see in the UK is the company's forthcoming mobile version of Katamari Damacy, entitledRolling With Katamari, which has so far only been announced for the US market. Oh and last week, the company also launchedTamagotchi: 'Round the World, a new version of the legendary virtual pet game exclusively for the iPod. "Eat, dance, play and even poop your way to a happier and healthier planet!" promises the website…Consistently then, there are big gaps in the output. We're seeing casual-friendly puzzle IP and lots of retro titles, but not enough that exploits current 'franchises' or more recent series'. I'd love to see mobile titles based around the likes of Viewtiful Joe, Okami or Killer 7 where the abstract visuals perfectly compliment the abilities of current handsets. It would be great to see cultish titles like Baten Kaitos or Mr Driller. And don't get me started on Sega – Jet Set Radio, Space Channel 5, Chu Chu Rocket… In fact, can't we just re-animate the entire Dreamcast back catalogue on iPhone?Sadly while, Capcom, Namco et al are making most of their money out of kiddie quizzes and TV tie-ins at the moment, such an avant-garde business concept is unlikely to catch on.
It was inevitable. After a halcyon week of free and easy user-generated content, self-expression and uninterrupted creativity, the bods at Sony havestarted cracking downonLittle Big Planetplayers who integrate brands, pop culture and copyrighted materials into their game levels.The game, which has an unprecedented toolkit for players to develop their own challenges for others to play, was released last week to greatfanfare and rejoicing. A note to the President-Elect for the United States: it didn't take long before the dogs started to rip it apart.Now, I'm not suggesting for a moment that either Sen. Barack Obama or Little Big Planet are in for a mighty fall, I'm just saying that the powers that be have agendas of their own. And for the PlayStation 3 game, those powers fall under the heading Sony and its umbrella of mighty media properties.Sony's relationship with theludic spraysurrounding its games (that which consumers generate purely for the love of it) has been rocky in the past; leaving its music division policies to the side, long-term gamesblog readers may recall the launch ofStation Exchange, Sony's attempt to control the user-generated content sales of EverQuest and other Sony-owned intellectual properties to and from players via eBay.You may also recall the backlash against the publishers after they attempted to bamboozle social media users with an ill-placed marketing video,alliwantforxmasisapsp.Sony unfortunately has relationships with big players who don't understand what remixing the web is all about, and so itwasinevitable that content which used copyrighted concepts would be removed from the public Little Big Planet library. But we should still give them kudos for trying this out within their constraints, rather than tear them down and declare this all a disaster.I am, however, looking for someone with the cahones - and perhaps the convincing skills of a superhero - who'll create a product which allows free and open remixing and re-purposing. I don't expect it to come from my generation, but I have high hopes for the next one.cheers for the link bambino_tostare!
Reports of your friends - and everyone else's friends - being adrift in a war-torn place where strangely enough they can somehow manage to update their Facebook profile to say "Send money!" are exaggerated.But Facebook has a problem: "Nigerian scammers" - by which we mean scammers of any nationality, but aiming to get money off you by conning you - have infiltrated it and are breaking into accounts, and using them to send messages pleading for money.And of course because it appears to come from a friend, people are more likely to believe it.This isn't new - there have been dozens of scams around, and there was a similar problem on MySpace.But Trend Micro tells us about a scam where you can follow the whole thread, from innocent email to innocent site to email harvesting to cybercrime. We'll let Trend Micro take up the story."The scam starts off with a message sent to the user on their Facebook wall, myspace or bebo page: "Did you know that your profile pic is all over gabblebase.com?" When you go to the site it asks for Name, Friend's Name and an email address (harvesting email addresses to sell them on). If you go to gabblebase (it's not a malicious link itself, so it's ok to click on it) you can follow the steps through by using a fake identity to see how it works."Having researched gabblebase, it is actually linked to a server in Las Vegas owned by someone called Adam Arzoomanian. Further investigation reveals that he owns 423 domains in total (to avoid being blocked by filters)."OK -you can search for Arzoomanian, but I wouldn't trust any of those profiles to be real. Because this is an email harvesting scam.And how much is email harvesting worth? Trend Micro found a Chinese site called dreamstarmail, which offers a multi-level-marketing (MLM - your grown-up pyramid scheme) system:"Members will earn 20% of their direct referral earnings, 10% of their indirect referral level earnings, 5% of their 3rd level referral earnings, 3% of their 4th level referral earnings, 2% of their 5th level referral earnings and 1% of their 6th level referral earnings.."And how much is an email address worth? According to the site, "All Emails Worth at least 5 cents". So now you know.Rik Ferguson of Trend Micro says:"Email address harvesting is a tried and tested ploy for cybercriminals, and they can employ various methods to achieve their goal. These include; harvesting bots which crawl the internet retrieving email addresses from web site, news groups and mailing lists, dictionary based attacks or Directory Harvesting attacks against mail servers, where an automated tool guesses common names and combinations of names against any given domain, those that are not rejected are harvested as "good".Of course there is the well known marketing campaign approach where a product or service is offered free of charge on the provision of a valid email address (and perhaps you'd like to recommend five or ten friends too!). This Picture scam is a variant on that theme, where people are misled into believing that photos of them or belonging to them have been uploaded onto a public website. In order to see those pictures they are asked to enter their email address. Worryingly, as they step though the process to gain access to these non-existent photos, users are also asked to create a password. This neat little social engineering trick is relying on users' habit of using common passwords, now the cybercriminal has your email and your password. It's payday."And from there it's only a short step to infesting your and your friends' Facebook accounts with scams. Which brings us back to where we started from...
Why do people always say "computer games are addictive" as if that's a bad thing? There is endless hand-wringing about the supposedly addictive properties of gaming. The release of a newWorld of Warcraft expansion pack has brought the issue up again, butthe idea of game addiction has been around for a while, contributing to the image of computer games as dangerous, disturbing and unhealthy.I'd like to suggest an alternative theory. People enjoy playing computer games, and playing them for large amounts of time doesn't necessarily indicate "addiction". But even if they are habit-forming, they can be a positive habit. In fact, playing computer games can be extremely psychologically healthy, even therapeutic.An example from my own life. In 2001, I was living in Manhattan. After the 9/11 attacks, the city went from being a glorious playground to, for a while, the kind of grim dystopian landscape more commonly seen in post-apocalpyse thrillers. The fires burned under the wreckage of the twin towers for three months. Every time the wind blew in a northerly direction, the caustic smell of burning concrete and rubber – and, one could not help thinking, of death – spread across the city.Every lamppost, every bus shelter, was covered with fluttering photocopied fliers appealing for help to find the missing. "Have you seen my wife?" "My father?" "My child?" Those who could, left the city. Those who had jobs they couldn't afford to leave carried on living in it.It was in these circumstances that the World of Warcraft forerunner,Diablo II, also made by Blizzard, began to exert an irresistible pull over me. It had languished on my shelf for months before 9/11. But when I needed an escape I was delighted to discover that if I put on some music and played Diablo II my brain was simply incapable of thinking about anything else.I remember surfacing from four-hour Diablo II sessions feeling as if I'd been on holiday, so grateful that I'd been able to blot out the images of genuine horror filling my city. The game was so mind-filling it left no room for the anxious brooding that I was experiencing the rest of the time. This was a tremendous blessing. And of course the symbolism of spending hours killing monsters after experiencing a terrorist attack doesn't need a $200-an-hour Freudian analyst to explain it.For a few months, I played Diablo II for probably 30 hours a week, and I remain convinced that it was a pretty healthy response to the situation I was in. My desire to play the game faded as the city got back on its feet. I tried to get back into the game again about a year later and found that it had mostly lost its appeal, although on particularly difficult days I've been known to fire it up again. Yes, hacking away at fictional monsters can be astonishingly comforting.This experience left me with a few conclusions about computer games. First, the concern about violence in gaming is for the most part misplaced. Pixellated cartoon monsters, however realistic, cannot compare in the horror stakes to what flesh-and-blood human beings can do to one another. Playing at violence, by definition, hurts no one. And for most people, I think playing a really violent game is a way to channel aggression, not a way to ramp it up.As for addiction, I do not doubt that some people can become compulsive about playing computer games, to the detriment of the other parts of their lives. People can experience compulsions around many different areas of life including shopping, gambling, food, sex, hoarding precious objects, and many other behaviours that the non-compulsive majority enjoy, or find healthy and even life-sustaining. The fact that some people can become compulsive about a behaviour says nothing, by itself, about the nature of that behaviour and everything about the nature of the person and, most importantly, the circumstances they're living in.The whole concept of addiction is, anyway, still under debate. Psychiatrists draw a distinction between physical dependence and psychological dependence. That is, to oversimplify a complicated field, between substances that may alter the brain so as to make it very difficult to stop using them, and behaviours on which a person becomes habitually reliant.But even the overriding force of physical addiction has come under scrutiny.Experiments like Bruce Alexander's famous "Rat Park" suggest that even addiction to morphine may depend on external circumstances.Rats living in tiny metal cages get addicted to morphine. Rats living in a specially designed housing colony, with room to play, the company of other rats of both sexes and abundant food do not.If physical addiction is dependent on one's living conditions and life circumstances, the same is likely to be even more true for psychological dependence. During a life crisis, using computer games to escape – at least temporarily – from pain and discomfort, is a very rational strategy.In these times of economic turmoil, I expect many people will turn to the escapist pleasures of exciting novels, feel-good movies and demanding, thrilling computer games. It seems pretty healthy – even therapeutic – to me, and there really are far worse ways to distract yourself from the difficulties of life. Religion may have been compared to opium, but computer games are, at their very worst, the methadone of the people.
Senior Democratic party officials are contacting websites includingeBayandCraigslistin an attempt to halt the sale of tickets for the inauguration of Barack Obama on January 20.Almost a quarter of a million free tickets to the ceremony will be given away in the run-up to the event, with distribution largely left to local congressional offices around the US.But with the overwhelming interest in the swearing-in of America's first black president, some party officials are concerned that ticket touts could try to profit from the event.Californian senator Diane Feinstein said she had heard that some buyers would be willing to pay as much as $40,000 to attend the service. She will be writing to a number of websites asking them to ban scalpers."These tickets are given for free to people. This is a major civic event of the time, and no one pays for their tickets, and we believe no one should be required to pay for their tickets," Feinstein told the Associated Press.The senior senator from California is also said to be preparing legislation to make the re-sale of inauguration tickets a criminal offence.Auction website eBay is no stranger to controversy over the sale of tickets to free events, and introduced a policy in Britain earlier this year to contain the activities of ticket touts.Users selling tickets to free events must now donate a proportion of profits to the charity concerned. The scheme, first trialled in conjunction with last year's Live Earth concert, was brought in after the site was criticised for harbouring scalpers.In 2005, Sir Bob Geldof attacked the "sick profiteering" he saw on eBay during the run-up to the Live 8 concert, where free tickets earmarked for the public were being sold online for as much as £500.The inauguration of president-elect Obama is already having an effect on auction and classified advertising websites. The price of hotel rooms in Washington is rocketing, with some being sold on eBay for as much as $2,500.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Gizmodo has an amusing picture story about"MacBook Nano" netbooks, which says:I don't know if these MacBook Nanos are a custom hack or if they come from some kind of shady outlet selling retrofitted MSI U100 laptops made to look like shiny -- and fictional -- Apple notebooks with Mac OS X installed. I do know one thing, though: I wouldn't mind having oneWell, as Gizmodo knows, they do look like MSI Wind netbooks, slightly adapted … but it would certainly be interesting to see another manufacturer getting into the non-approved Mac clone business, followingPsystar.They would have some appeal because Apple isn't about to launch a real netbook: they don't cost nearly enough.Gizmodo featured theMSI Wind hacked to run Mac OS Xback in June. Whether MSI would risk Apple's lawsuits is another matter.Separated at birth? An MSI Wind
So, just a few months after starting his job as head ofProject Kangaroo, a British commercial TV equivalent to the all-conquering iPlayer, former BBC director Ashley Highfield isleaving to join Microsoft.Highfield has cut a controversial figure during his career - admired by many for his  political nous while disliked by others for his inability to get projects launched. The cornerstone of his career, the BBC,was plagued by such troubles: even the eventual success of the iPlayer only happened when the Beebhired Anthony Roseto spearhead development of a Flash-based version of the app.Leaving aside the question of how the move affects Microsoft, where does Highfield's departure leave Kangaroo? The answer is, probably, not much further on than when he started (things are on hold pending aninvestigation by the Competition Commission). The major difference will most likely be the large chunk of cash that's gone to pay his salary for the last six months.Immediate reaction to the news seemed to vary as wildly as Highfield's reputation. It ranged from the adulatory - one blog called him aUK internet visionary- through the cordial, and then to the angry: internet pundit Clay Shirkysaid hearing the news made him want to spew.I'm still digesting what it means and how it came about, but one thing's certain: moving to Microsoft isn't going to change the way people react to him.Update:Regular contributorTim Andersonpoints out that the adulatory is blog I referenced above is actuallywritten by a pair of Microsoft employees(and two others). So we'll put that excitable phrasing down to office politics.
You've probably already seen this - it's being Dugg faster than an incriminating video of Britney and Katy Perry. Last week, Robert Bowling, community manager at Infinity Ward posteda furious pieceon his blog about one Noah Heller, the senior producer on CoD: World at War. Heller has been busy carrying out interviews to publicise Treyarch's big Xmas release, but on several occassions he has apparently compared the title to Infinity Wars' previous CoD titles - and it's ticked off Bowling. A bit.Here's his reaction to Heller's assertion that the bolt-action rifle used to require three or four shots to down an enemy...WTF are you talking about?! "in previous Call of Dutys blah blah blah". First of all, you didn't work on "previous Call of Dutys", so don't talk as if you're down with how / why things were designed the way they were. Second, you're completely fucking wrong.And then some more:A rule of thumb I like to use is…. when promoting your game. Promote YOUR game. Don't compare it to another game, or reference what OTHER games did in the past, pitch YOUR game. I mean, you have lots of cool things you could talk about… like Nazi Zombies….Can you guys please stop interviewing this guy, talk to someone who actually works on the Dev Team at Treyarch and knows what the fuck they're talking about. Not Senior Super Douche Noah Heller from Activision - who apparently has never played the game and doesn't even work at the developer.This almost never happens. I mean, public in-fighting between two developers working under one publisher. It's the sort of nightmarishly human scenario that PR departments will seek to quash with Draconian might before it ever, ever escapes the confines of the company intranet. And yet, here it is online for all to see.It's unlikey, though, that Bowling's plea for game sites to stop interviewing Heller will be heeded. Senior producers are often the only staff made available for press interviews, as they can be trusted to deliver the company line and to ensure that USPs are revealed in synchronisation with global marketing plans. With primary source material still a valuable currency in the world of online game news, sites will just grit their teeth an accept the on-message spiel, even if it's bereft of true development insight - lord knows I've been there.
I didn't get chance to post about this last week, but wanted to get a mention in somewhere.Learndirect, the government-backed adult education service, has just released its own free online game.The Legula Adventureis designed to be played by a child and one parent, and involves solving simple word and number puzzles as you travel through a 3D virtual environment, looking for three powerful crystals.It's sort of a gently educational version of Myst, with movement controlled by selecting directions via a on-screen menu. The visuals are nicely designed, reminding me a little of Katamari's flat-shaded cartoon-ish beauty. "The Legula Adventure provides an engaging way to get the family learning," says Kirstie Donnelly, LearnDirect's Director of Products and Marketing. "Simple instructions make working through the puzzles and games fun for gamers of all skill levels, and the colourful and unusual characters really bring the story to life."It's a nice idea. I've played through lord knows how many Cbeebies games with my son, but usually find myself yawning through the drudgery. With its narrative  thrust, fun script and stylised environments, I was actually quite engaged by this.
You don't often get UK specific sales figures but some haveleaked out today.  From July to September Wii Fit was the biggest seller with 460,000 units shifted (of which 445,000 are currently under a layer of dust...).  In a good summer for Nintendo, Mario Kart Wii sold 394,000. Force Unleashed, the flawed but generally entertaining Star Wars game, was next up shifting 321,000 units in the UK (1.4 million in the US).The biggest selling game worldwide from July to Sept was Too Hum, no hang on, Madden NFL 2009. The excellent American Football game shifted just under 3 million units in the US and a creditable 35k in the UK. GoDolphins.Of course Q4 - Oct to Dec - is where the real sales hit. But which game will sell most in the run up to Christmas? Lich King? FIFA 2009? Call of Duty: World at War?
Earlier this year, an intrepid team of novice and indie developers from The Guardian's gamesblog community started work on a new kind of game project:a collaboratively-designed text adventure. The aim was to generate a playable product using social media tools in three months, and while we may have overstepped the deadline slightly, I'd like to announce that Spaceship!, a game with so many people's fingerprints on it, has reachedalpha.What this means that that the text adventure is nowcompletable. However, take its alpha status literally:Spaceship!is fresh off the press and requires a few more days hard graft before its lumps and bumps are ironed out. However, this is an appeal for your help: support your fellow gamesbloggers andplay the game! (Note: you needJava Runtime Environmentto play the current iteration)We're looking for people totake on the roleof the captain of our spaceship, and we want your feedback. If you like it, dislike it, have found a flaw or a puzzle is too hard, we'd like to know! Play the gamehere. Type 'transcript' at the first prompt, save your transcript as 'spaceship tester [your name] [the date]' and send it to wikicoders +at+ googlemail.com. That way we'll see where you get stuck without you even having to report it, and can amend accordingly. We'll also have your name for the credits!Add your general feedback to the comments below so the hard workers on the team can make our game better.We'll be submitting Spaceship! to several indie game competitions, so add your name to our developer list!Finally, if you're of an artistic bent, we'd like to open the floor to you to create ourCover Art. Submit your pieces to the gamesblog'sFlickr group, and the submission which the team chooses will wina lovely prize.Catch up with our progress and our journey at theWikigame website(some links may be out of date... I'm away from my desk at the moment). Many big props to our core team for getting this far: DennisChow,BarryT,Michael Brunton-Spall, PhilWal andtnomad.
You can take this three ways: an indicator of how bad the recession in the US is; and indicator of the iPhone's perceived quality; or both at once. Because NPD Group says that theiPhone 3G was the top-selling phone in the US for the third quarter.That's not top-selling smartphone (though it was that as well) - but top-selling handset among adults. (Perhaps a necessary distinction.)But every silver lining has a cloud:Even with stronger consumer sales of iPhone, and the mobile phone market's normal seasonal uplift after Q2, domestic handset purchases by adult consumers declined 15 percent year over year in Q3 to 32 million units. Consumer handset sales revenue fell 10 percent to $2.9 billion, even as the average selling price (ASP) rose 6 percent to $88.In other words, the US is going into screaming reverse in terms of handset sales.But it also tells us something else about where the market is going as a whole, according to NPD's analyst:"The displacement of the RAZR by the iPhone 3G represents a watershed shift in handset design from fashion to fashionable functionality," said Ross Rubin, director of industry analysis for NPD. "Four of the five best-selling handsets in the third quarter were optimized for messaging and other advanced Internet features."Rubin added - rather pithily -"A growing data divide continues in cellular handsets:those who see the value in wireless Internet access are justifying the investment, whereas voice-centric users have little incentive to upgrade, which is obviously detrimental to operators who seek to sell data plans and media access services to their subscribers."Michael Gartenberg ofMobile Devices Todaycommented that "iPhone growth [is] coming from lower income demographics [because it's] perceived as high value relative to cost."One suspect there'll be a certain amount of dancing in the corridors at Cupertino, where every Monday morning is spent by Jobs and his top lieutenants going over sales fiures for the past week, month and quarterly period for every single item in their catalogue (well, maybe not the display and power adapters, but the bigger-ticket items). The good news just seems to keep on coming. Apart of course fromthat guy from IBM..
On his blog, Ze Frank says: "the fringes (all of them) have been allowed to dominate our conversations for too long. to create a cycle of hate, ill-will and revenge." He's trying to foster a spirit of reconciliation, and invites people to send their conciliatory pics to ze@zefrank.comDozens of impressive results are posted athttp://www.zefrank.com/from52to48withlove/Ze comments: "Am being inundated by quite a bit of hate mail at the moment, but also have gotten quite a number of constructive and heartfelt comments. i didn't say it would be easy..."I guess it's naïve to hope that haters might be capable of responding to a plea not to hate, or even to keep their pathetic little hatreds to themselves. But seriously, I can't even imagine how big a jerk you have to be to send Ze Frank hate mail. The man's a national treasure.
Craigslist, the world's biggest small ads site, is the small operation that became a huge success, but stayed small. Craig Newmark started it as a hobby in 1995 and it now claims to have more than 50 million users and more than 12 billion page views per month. But it is still run from a small house in San Francisco, which is unique for one of the world's leading websites.It has sections covering items for sale, housing, jobs, community activities, and a wide range of dating-oriented personals. Although most users are based in the US, it now covers more than 40 countries and big cities from Amsterdam to Zurich.When Newmark is interviewed –he's been on the Daily Showand theColbert Report, among others – he is usually asked why he doesn't sell out for billions of dollars. His reply: "We just don't need the money."Craigslist could probably bring in between $500m and $1bn a year, but it doesn't charge for classifieds, doesn't take a percentage of sales, and doesn't carry banner advertising. It may charge for job ads, apartment listings and adult-oriented entries, but this often looks like a response to abuse rather than an attempt to make money. For example, Craigslist started charging for New York apartment listings after the free list was swamped by people re-posting the same ads to keep them near the top of the chronological listing.But it has a seamy side. Craigslist is used by prostitutes and escort services as well as people seeking casual sex via the Casual Encounters section. In Sleeping Around Craigslist,two middle-aged women wrote about their adventures having sex with lots of men, noting: "Probably because the ads are free and largely uncensored, Craigslist has become 'Hook-Up Central' on the Web. There's no long questionnaire and no profile required as there is on other dating sites. There's just a bunch of hungry people looking for everything".There are adverts seeking people willing to appear in front of webcams or in adult movies, and to work as escorts, for example. "Girls needed for gangbang parties (London)" is one example.Last week, the site acted"to prevent its online communities and classified ads from being misused for the facilitation of human trafficking, child exploitation, and other illegal activities."It said: "In addition to phone verification and other existing protective measures, craigslist will soon require credit card verification and a small fee per ad for posting in 'erotic services', to further encourage compliance with site guidelines."An independent site calledCraigsCrimeList posts stories about crimes and scams associated with Craigslist. Recent headlines include: Memphis craigslist hooker bust, Reader employment scam, Cali craigslist rapist convicted, and Madonna fans scammed. In one famous case,a Michigan woman advertised on Craigslist for a hitman to kill her lover's wife.Craigslist publishes around 30 million small ads each month, so there are bound to be a few bad ones. But it's wise to assume the worst, and take great care when dealing with the rest.
Circuit Cityhad only just announced plans to close 155 stores and shed 17% of its US workforce, but it now needs protection from creditors in order to continue its turnaround efforts. Today,Reuters reports: "The retailer and 17 affiliates filed for Chapter 11 protection from creditors with the U.S. bankruptcy court in Richmond, Virginia, where it is based." The story says:Circuit City had lost money in five of the last six quarters. In recent weeks, suppliers pinched by the global credit crunch have tightened terms, sometimes requiring up-front payments before shipping goods.The largest unsecured creditors are Hewlett-Packard, Samsung Electronics and Sony. But Circuit City "has arranged a commitment for debtor-in-possession financing of $1.1 billion, which will allow it to continue to operate during the bankruptcy proceeding," says Reuters.Users might be able to pick up a few bargains, but "a flood of discounted merchandise from liquidating Circuit City stores could hurt Best Buy during this holiday shopping season, said Jefferies &amp; Co analyst Dan Binder."Philip Schoonover, the former chairman, president, and CEO, resigned in September.AP has atimeline.I've bought the odd thing at Circuit City over the years, usually because I've been staying close enough to a store and not had time to hit Frye's. However, I've never found it a particularly welcoming or attractive sort of place. Is it a chain whose time has gone?
If you need any guidance on the precise differences between Apple's upcoming revision of OSX, calledSnow Leopard, and the also upcoming revision of Windows Vista, carefully codenamedWindows 7, then we're glad to say that there is a fantastic point-by-point comparison now online which answers all your questions.Including the snarky ones.Welcome to The Onion, which provides aside-by-side feature-by-hyped-featurelook at what the two will do.Such as:Problem it fixes:Snow Leopard: Chumps with too-much-money syndrome;Windows 7: Chumps who thought things would be better this time round.OrSo aesthetically pleasing that it distracts users from countless technical gaffes?Snow Leopard: Yes;Windows 7: No, but working on it.Any other suggestions for point-by-point comparators of Snow Leopard and Windows 7 that the Onion team have somehow unaccountably missed?
Ofcom, the UK comms regulator, says it has received "legally-binding undertakings from Phones 4U committing them to change a number of their practices which will stop them from breaching consumer protection laws relating to the sale of mobile handsets and contracts."A joint Ofcom-Staffordshire Trading Standards investigation found that Phones 4U had breached consumer protection laws by, for example:not providing customers with a refund when they returned faulty handsets within a reasonable period of time, that were purchased directly from Phones 4U;andmaking misleading, false or deceptive representations or omissions to consumers about matters such as network coverage in particular areas, or what was included in their mobile phone plan.Ofcom says Phones4U cooperated with the investigation "leading to a substantial reduction in complaints. In addition, Phones 4U implemented changes to its staff training procedures and operations."
The UK's Classic FM radio station hasposted a videowhere staff, contributors and the odd listener join in by saying "I'm a PC". Classic FM is promoting the site on air, and inviting listeners to do the same:A billion PCs, all of us different. Tell us what kind of PC you are and you could appear in online advertising, electronic billboards or even on TV.This is part of Microsoft's globalLife Without Wallsadvertising campaign (UK branch).Capital FMandXFMare also on the pcsontheradio.co.uk site, so there may be more to come. (The XFM Dance video is moderately amusing, as these things go.)The ads don't mention Apple but the main videos start off with a figure on a white background that references Apple's misleading series of TV adverts. Microsoft is attempting to reclaim the "I'm a PC" meme, in much the way that homosexuals reclaimed "gay" from bigotry.Presumably Microsoft has checked that these radio stations, like most businesses, are actually run on PCs. It would be counterproductive to get the same sort of reputation as Apple, wherefew people expect its ads to be truthful.
So how was your gaming weekend?LittleBigPlanetandGears of War 2were the big releases for PS3 and 360 respectively. And the gaming rush continues this week with Call of Duty: World at War and WoW Lich King leading the charge. Sheesh. How much time/money do publishers think we have?Anyway, anyone here get either LBP or Gears 2? Server problems aside I'm still infatuated by LittleBigPlanet and for me this is the first absolute must-play exclusive title for the PS3.Gears 2, an exclusive release for the Xbox 360, is enjoyable enough, especially in co-op, but it's hardly essential. Anyone who played the original Gears will feel right at home. Honestly, buffed up space marines, alien attacks, destruction, chainsaws – hardly gaming's future is it? Sure, the core gamers will love it but give me LittleBigPlanet's charm and originality every time. Anyone here played either or – gasp – both? What do you think?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Magnetic interference from iPod headphones could pose a risk to patients with surgically implanted heart monitoring devices, according to a study involving 60 pacemaker and defibrillator patients.Interference from MP3 player headphones could prove fatal by temporarily deactivating a device, and the research team said patients should keep headphones more than 3cm away from their pacemaker or defibrillator."For family members or friends of patients with implantable defibrillators, they should avoid wearing headphones and resting their head right on top of someone's device," said William Maisel, director of the medical device safety institute at Beth Israel Medical Centre in Boston, Massachusetts. Patients themselves should avoid keeping headphones in a chest pocket or draping them over the chest, he added.Maisel and his team tested eight different models of headphones, including clip-on and ear-bud varieties. These were all connected to an iPod, although any brand of MP3 player would have had the same effect. Most headphone types contain small amounts of the magnetic metal neodymium.The team placed the headphones on the skin above the implanted device of 60 defibrillator and pacemaker patients and detected an impact on the device's operation in 14 patients."When a magnet is placed on a defibrillator, it temporarily deactivates the device," said Maisel. "In other words the defibrillator stops looking for dangerous fast heart rhythms, and if a patient had a life-threatening heart rhythm problem while the magnet was over the device, it would not treat it."Pacemakers, on the other hand, are designed to treat slow heart rhythms. They are meant to send signals to the heart when the heart rate slows, but magnetic interference can cause a pacemaker to start pacing without regard to the patient's underlying heart rate. "This can cause palpitations (a feeling of heart irregularity) or can rarely induce an abnormal heart rhythm - although we did not observe any of these in our study," said Maisel.The team did not find any magnetic interactions when they placed headphones 3cm or more from the device.Maisel, who presented his work yesterday at the American Heart Association's meeting in New Orleans, said he did not know of any cases in which headphones had caused death or injury.A Food and Drug Administration report concluded earlier this year that interactions between MP3 players themselves and implanted cardiac devices were unlikely.A separate study presented at the conference found that wireless devices such as Bluetooth are also unlikely to cause a problem.
WINDOWS IMMOBILE&gt;&gt; There isn't anything new in the doom and gloom department that hasn't been said a million times already but it is nice to read the opinions of a person that isn't as closely tied to the Windows Mobile experience as all of us are here. It amazes me to see the Internet turn so quickly against Windows Mobile and cast it aside like an old shoe. I personally do not believe the situation is as dire as everyone else believes, but I do feel it is very important that Microsoft steps up their game and focus on usability for their next release as if their lives depended on it. I don't see Microsoft letting Windows Mobile die anytime soon, but on this current path-to-nowhere I can easily see Windows Mobile quickly becoming irrelevant.smartphonethoughts.com&gt;&gt; I like the iPhone and G1 and I feel they have both brought some much needed feature innovation to the smartphone world, but I'll stay with Windows Mobile and the Outlook integration. Keeping my data management simple, and not having to spend extra for it, is the key to my choice.forums.thoughtsmedia.comFALLOUT: THE FALLOUT&gt;&gt; As the games industry grows in economic clout and aesthetic sophistication, it'd be nice to think that newspapers would start to junk their laughable one-paragraph 'reviews' in favour of, well, actual reviews. But, given this week's rapid 5% to 10% cuts to the staff of several notable newspapers and magazines in the U.S., I suspect that videogame critics had better get in line behind the editorial cartoonists, staff photojournalists, book critics, and all the others deemed to be expendable by the 'we can just print more press releases' accountants.d-log.infoI'M IN THE OFFICE&gt;&gt; The pressure towards productivity… hmmm some truth to that, but I think it's more than a question of environment. Motivation, interest, meaning, habit. They all play a part.fieldus.comPICTURE THISCultural institutions generally prohibit photography in their premises and, especially, in loan exhibitions on the stated grounds of copyright (Snap Unhappy, Letters, 30 Oct). Whilst taking a picture per se does not engage such laws, the fear is of reproduction and consequent legal action. Of course the cynical might conclude that this is designed to encourage purchase of the accompanying postcard/catalogue/tea towel.Other common reasons for a ban include disturbance to other visitors, crowd control and the depressingly inevitable catch-all 'security'.Chris Rogers, EdgwareSEARCH MEEven more ridiculous is the meaningless adherence to regulations ("Time to show bottle and tackle the real issues" - Bruce Schneier - 23 Oct 2008).I had a water bottle - obtained air-side and containing around 25ml - confiscated just because it wasn't in a plastic bag (I put it through the scanner on top of my hand luggage) ... meanwhile the aircrew walked past with their full 150 ml bottles in their hands, no bags !So not being in a bag increased the risk of it being dangerous ... right !?Mike Whittaker, StapletonTHE OLD BLACKAfter stumbling across Naomi Alderman's blog entry "Post-crunch, ugly is the new black" from 14 October I felt I had to respond.Although there was undoubtedly a tongue in cheek element to the piece, Naomi's point that web design had something to do with IceSave going bust is at the very least - ignorant. Innovation, creativity, design and usability do not necessarily come at a premium - but once again the media gives the impression that businesses pay a fortune for something a four year old could have done with a crayon. Yes, there are terrible designs out there that cost a fortune, but at the same time, there are brilliant designs, brands and websites created on small budgets. Like any large organisation such as Nike or Coca Cola, banks and building societies have a duty to keep their image up to date, and have the best websites they can within a manageable budget, to attract new and repeat custom.Surely members of the public would be more likely to invest in banks that have spent the time and effort working with design and development teams that actually know what they're doing? It's like saying, I've saved £50,000 just to spend on a car... I could get a beautifully engineered, top of the range Audi, but because it runs beautifully and I think Audi have wasted their money on the design and build of it, I'm going to get a Chevrolet Lacetti. Apply the same thinking to banking adverts and leaflets and Naomi would have a Graphics GCSE class creating leaflets for the banks as work-experience using Times New Roman and awful preset Photoshop effects.That's surely going to inspire people to invest in a professional business isn't it?Tom Tribe, Cardiff
"Federal District Judge Kenneth Karas in White Plains ordered that Mark Papermaster 'immediately cease his employment with Apple Inc until further order of this court',"reports Reuters.It seems Apple hired Papermaster to lead the engineering teams making iPods and iPhones, but IBM says that before he left, after 25 years at Big Blue, he'd agreed to avoid working for any competitor for a year. The story says:Papermaster also argued that there were significant differences between between the two companies because IBM makes big machines for big business and Apple makes little devices for consumers.IBM disagreed."Electronic devices large and small are powered by the same type of intelligence, the microprocessor," IBM argued.IBM says Papermaster: "is in possession of significant and highly-confidential IBM trade secrets and know-how, as well as highly sensitive information regarding business strategy and long-term opportunities."We don't know much about this is, but Papermaster'sreported response-- "I do not recall a single instance of Apple being described as a competitor of IBM during my entire tenure at IBM" -- either shows astonishing ignorance or is pure bunk.IBM used to make and still sells PCs that compete with Apple, and Apple launched its Macintosh line with attacks on IBM, in its 1984 Big Brother and 1985 TV commercials. Apple later switched sides, adopting IBM's PowerPC processor, and tried to sell itself to IBM, but they didn't stop competing. (Later, after trashing Intel, Apple switched again, adopting Intel chips for its Macs.)IBM has since sold its PC division to China's Lenovo, but Apple still competes directly against IBM to the extent that it sells any xServe servers.IBM has also been involved in supplying chips for games consoles -- including the Nintendo GameCube and Wii, and Microsoft's Xbox -- and many other devices. It therefore seems quite likely that parts of IBM's PowerPC operation believe they have been competing against PA Semi, a chip company that Apple now owns.Further, PA Semi developed its PA6T-1682M chip based onPower technology licensed from IBM, which suggests Papermaster's inside knowledge of IBM's plans and technologies might just be of interest to his new employer. Was that something he also failed to notice?
Robert J Moore, the founder ofRJ Metrics, was intrigued by "a white lawn sign about a foot tall with a very simple message in black Times New Roman: 'Single? www.GlassboroSingles.ORG'." Why would someone start a dating site for a place as small as Glassboro? Why would they even register the domain name? And since they had, why would they advertise it by spamming people's lawns and roadside verges with signs?Then, just this past Friday, I saw the most amazing sign yet.  A town not far from my house is called Haddon Heights, NJ.  It is a miniscule [sic] town that occupies just 1.6 square miles of land and has a population of barely 7,000 people.  Furthermore, 56% of the population is married and 25% is under the age of 18 (thanks Wikipedia!). Not exactly a ripe market for a dating business.  Nonetheless, as I drove through the town, I saw (no exaggeration) twenty signs that read "Single? www.HaddonHeightsDating.COM"So he decided to find out how the business works….The storyhas certainly struck a chord: it now has more than 200 comments, and more than 2000 diggs.
Hyundai i10&pound;6,745CO2 per km: 119 gramsMiles per gallon: 56.5Good for: City slickersBad for: City fat-catsWhen the friendly lady at Hyundai's press office phoned to ask if I wanted to test their dinky new i10, I said yes, even though I could muster little enthusiasm for it. After all she was offering me a small, cheap, Korean, city runaround which was clearly going to have all the vim and verve of a Charles and Di commemorative biscuit tin. But a moment of domestic admin incompetence on my behalf meant that I was stranded for the half-term week without a car, and I figured that anything with a seat or two, a selection of wheels and a pootling engine was going to be better than nothing. But then the i10 arrived, packed with surprises, and my enthusiasm quickly started to grow.The i10 is the second model (following on from the astonishingly well-received i30) to benefit from Hyundai's new naming policy. Out go the likes of the Amica, Getz and Sonata (which all sound like optimistic trade unions) and in comes the 'i' prefix. It proves there's nothing whimsical about Hyundai's new line-up and nothing sentimental about their no-nonsense plans to overtake the road's more established brands. And if the car's combination of quality, better-than-average looks and generous equipment levels don't snare you, then the aggressive pricing and five-year warranty should.For &pound;6,745 you'd rightly feel you had no business being picky about what was on offer. But the i10 arrives with the same level of extras that even a few years ago would have pushed the price north of 10 grand. Air-con, central locking, ABS, electric windows and a six-speaker MP3-compatible hi-fi should surely cost that much on their own. Reassuringly, Hyundai doesn't attempt to save money on safety - which some rivals in this most cost-effective of motoring segments seem to regard as an optional extra. The i10 has front and side airbags, child locks and Isofix childseat mountings in the back. It has also managed four stars for occupancy protection in its NCAP exams. And all I was expecting was a seat and a steering wheel ...Once inside the i10, you'll find it roomy and surprisingly spacious. By building upwards, the designers have created space for both your head and your legs, not to mention your passengers and luggage. Car design is all about compromise and all too often it's your hair-do and legs that carry the burden. Of course, the interior isn't finished in lacquered bamboo, but somehow they've kept the feeling of plasticky cheapness at bay. The i10 may be toy-sized but the feeling is grown-up.There are four models and trim-levels to choose from, but in a move to make life easier on the chronically indecisive there is only one engine option available - a 1.1-litre petrol job. There is a diesel variant but it's not available in the UK yet. But the one you get is more than up to the job, whirring you up to a top speed of 95mph (though 60 felt fast enough) and its piffling emissions mean it falls within the &pound;35 road-tax band.So, a small, cheap, Korean, city runabout. And what could be better than that?martin.love@observer.co.uk
A university lecturer has been given &pound;5,000 to study the health benefits of the Nintendo Wii. Michael Duncan will work with schoolchildren for six weeks to see if the popular games console can improve fitness and tackle obesity.Half of the children in the study will play Wii games, such as tennis, golf and boxing, during their school lunch break. The remainder will take part in their normal lunch-hour activities. All pupils will be fitted with an accelerometer that measures energy use from jumps, side turns and other movements. Duncan, a senior lecturer in exercise physiology at the University of Derby, hopes his research will determine whether computer games can benefit children.
In the past few years they have become synonymous with the social networking phenomenon - and become rivals fighting each other for millions of users. Yesterday internet giants Facebook and MySpace went head to head again, as they outlined audacious plans for the future.Speaking in San Francisco, Facebook's founder, Mark Zuckerberg, said he would continue to plan to expand aggressively around the world. The head of MySpace, meanwhile, suggested that the company could bring out its own music player to rival the iPod.The comments came at the Web 2.0 summit, an annual gathering of some of the world's top technologists and investors. MySpace's chief executive, Chris DeWolfe, said that he was focused on beating the economic downturn, initially through expanding its advertising programme and also through the new MySpace Music site, which lets surfers buy and download tracks online.But he also hinted that the social network could have a big target in its sights - Apple, the company behind the massively successful iPod. Asked whether the company would consider producing its own MP3 player to build on its reputation in online music, DeWolfe replied it was "possible".Zuckerberg said that he was not as interested in raking in profits as his competitors but would concentrate on continuing to expand the website. "Growth is our top priority," he said. "The challenge that we have is to bring people along the whole path, first bring people along to Facebook, and make people comfortable with sharing information online. We got people through this really big hurdle of wanting to put up their full name, picture - their mobile phone number in many cases."Over the past year the two websites have been jostling for top spot. Facebook has seen remarkable growth in the last 12 months, growing from 50 million users at the start of 2008 to around 161 million users today, by some estimates, making it the world's biggest active social network.However, beyond potentially ground-breaking developments such as taking on Apple, DeWolfe said he thought the future of social networking would look much the same as it does today. "The starting-off point is always going to be your home page on the internet," he said."On that page you'll have everything you're passionate about ... and you'll bounce off to whatever you're interested in - the weather, sports scores, news headlines - whatever it is."Not everyone agrees, however. In his talk Zuckerberg hinted that bringing Facebook to mobile phones could be a crucial next step for the company.The chance to take social networking truly mobile, taking advantage of increasingly popular phone technology such as built-in satellite location, is being touted by some as the next big thing.Global rivalsMembers worldwideFacebook: 161 million (18.4 million in UK)MySpace:118million (7.8 million in UK)Source: ComScore's figures from September this yearFounded/ownershipFacebookGrew out of a student website at Harvard University and founded in February 2004.MySpace: Co-founded in the US in 2003 by Chris DeWolfe and Tom Anderson. In 2005 Rupert Murdoch acquired Intermix, including MySpace, for $580m.
Is it a van? Is it a people carrier? Is it a life-size representation of a toy car? Yes and no. It's a Berlingo Multispace. Which explains why the neighbours are giving me such quizzical looks, as if I'd grown a beard or become a pigeon fancier.What's so strange about a Berlingo? It is, after all, a popular car with many thousands of owners. And presumably not all of them are Postman Pat obsessives. When it comes to multipurpose vehicles, it's one of the cheapest, most reliable and most flexible on the market.However, if you were a Postman Pat obsessive and you needed a car that met the demands of that particular lifestyle, then you'd be unlikely to look further than the Berlingo.Why would you? From the moment it left Greendale in 1996, the Berlingo has consistently attempted to turn the word "dinky" into an automotive reality. The new model is even dinkier than its predecessors, working that much harder to disguise the fact that it is essentially a small van with passenger windows.With its oversized bumper, like the lower lip of a sulking child, big-eared wing mirrors, a nose of moulded Citro&euml;n chevrons and enlarged boggle-eyed headlamps, the new Berlingo's design is pleasingly anthropomorphic. As John F Kennedy so nearly said: Ich bin ein Berlingo.It's also anamorphic, which readers will know is the word given to the method of transferring wide-screen cinema to TV screens. The windscreen of the Berlingo is so vast that it cries out for the endless skies of East Anglia or, indeed, the East African savannah.In the pinched streets of north London, I made do with looking up through the extensive sunroof panels to catch a glimpse of clear blue. This is a refreshingly luminous vehicle. Outside of a convertible, it would be difficult to find a car that admits more light.And that only adds to its capacious sense of space. I would have liked to have a mattress or something big to move, so I could fold down the back seats and really test the dimensional capabilities of this baby. Forget horsepower. If you want some stats to set the heart racing, try 3,000 litres of storage space.The boot looks big enough to fit a wardrobe in, and Narnia, too. And in this most imaginatively utilitarian of cars, another sweet feature is the boot light that doubles as a torch.In fact there is only one obvious problem with the Berlingo: what do you do when you don't have a mattress or a small army to move? Wash it, perhaps talk to it, but would you really want to drive it? For then you would find yourself at the wheel of an empty van, like many thousands of broken and demented souls, anxiously navigating your cumbersome frame through the narrow streets of this small and crowded island.The Berlingo manoeuvres well enough: it's not too heavy or slow and the steering is quite wieldy, but it's not exactly a joy to drive. Rather, the elevated seats and generous windscreen provide the ideal perspective from which to view bad driving and road congestion, much of it caused by van drivers.In other words, without a lot of stuff, you're stuffed.
The Ghost Of ElectricitySome lovely old soul, classic Kylie and a heated debate over the soundtrack to Octopussy.Any Major Dude With Half A HeartOriginal songs and their many cover versions plus a Beatles intros quiz and some iPod experiments.17 SecondsMySpace links and the campaign to get Brigyn's Welsh language version of Hallelujah to number one in the Christmas charts.To Die By Your SideWhy Elvis Costello is killing music, the news that Morrissey turned down Strictly Come Dancing and a few session tracks.Pop CulturedddMr Oizo's Gay Dentist, Seasick Steve on the Paul O'Grady Show and other random musical moments.The Vinyl Villain1990s guilty pleasures and indie classics from the Boo Radleys to Kenickie.
The video website YouTube is preparing to link up with Hollywood to show full-length films for free over the internet, it has emerged.The site - already used by millions of people every day to watch short video clips - confirmed that it was in negotiations with major studios as it gets ready to launch an online movie service. "Our goal is to offer maximum choice for our users, partners and advertisers," the company said in a statement.Free films, running with advertising, would mark a radical advance for the video-sharing website as it looks to profit from its massive popularity.It is not clear which Hollywood studios are involved in the discussions. But one report from the CNET news website suggested a YouTube movie service could arrive within 90 days.The development is part of a drive to increase profits at the video website, which has struggled to meet financial expectations since Google bought it for $1.65bn in 2006.YouTube contributors can now run advertising over their videos or add links to music and DVDs sales from iTunes and Amazon. A movie deal would also build on a recent agreement with the TV network CBS whereby the broadcaster's shows are screened online, with advertising, in return for a share of the revenue.The decision to link up with the film industry is also driven by rival moves by websites which already show full-length films and high-quality TV. The BBC's iPlayer has shown more than 160m programmes in the past year, and Hulu, a website backed by the American networks NBC and Fox, which has a vast library of TV programmes and films, has rocketed in popularity since it launched last year.The internet retailer Amazon has also started streaming some films on IMDb.com, the UK-based online film database that it bought 10 years ago.The developments tap into the move towards on-demand viewing rather than traditional scheduling, according to Jon Gibs, vice president of the ratings company Nielsen Online. "Consumers are increasingly relying on the web to catch up on content they missed when it aired on television, and the networks are beginning to capitalise on this trend."He said, as an example, that "anyone who didn't see Tina Fey's impersonation of Sarah Palin on Saturday Night Live had to log on and watch it or risk having nothing to say around the proverbial water cooler".For Hollywood, the change reflects shifting patterns of behaviour. Although DVD sales remain relatively strong, with sales worth more than &pound;2bn in the UK last year, recent figures from the research group Ipsos suggest that TV now accounts for just 55% of all video watched by teenagers.Not all of Hollywood is likely to be joining forces with YouTube, however. Paramount and DreamWorks are unlikely to sign up since the website is locked in a billion-dollar lawsuit with their parent firm, Viacom, over allegations that YouTube  encouraged copyright infringement.
Like Gareth Marenghi and The Office, the comedy here operates in a deadpan, alternative reality that's slightly duller than our own. Log in to an internal intranet site for a low-budget fake US TV company run by two self-aggrandising executives with questionable pasts (one produced Airwolf: The Aids Episode and a failed science-fiction movie called ManWorld; the other was "the last human to hear the puffins gurgle before eco terrorists placed it on the endangered species list"). Enjoy video (watch the Aidan Weinglas biography), production notes to projects such as Hobbit House (tagline: "If you were a hobbit you'd be home right now"), brainstorming notes and links to fake websites like that of "multi-modality therapist" Dr Dean Payne.
Guitar Hero, with its small, plastic guitar and ability to make addicts of even staunch non-gamers, has been a prodigious money maker. It's only natural that it's attracted imitators like Rock Band 2, which adds a range of other instruments and comes in a box whose size alone is good reason for excitement. It was pretty much inevitable, then, that someone would simulate the work of the DJ, the clubber's rock star. While details are still scarce at this point, the director of newly released Guitar Hero: World Tour has confirmed that a DJ Hero game is in development (followers of such things noted in February that the name had been trademarked). Meanwhile, World Tour has been causing trouble related to malfunctioning mini plastic drums in early versions, which Activision has fixed with a "tuning kit".
Many trendspotting blogs who task themselves with keeping abreast of hotness fall into the trap of being po-faced and superior - the online equivalent of the ultra-cool clothes shop anyone vaguely normal is scared to enter for fear of being laughed out of the door. That's not the case here; the team behind ATCN are ahead of the curve, but they also possess a sense of humour. While keeping us abreast on how Londoners are wearing their heels and the latest hip-hop T-shirt designer ALL CAPS, they provide us with the latest sightings of a man who walks around Portobello Road with a small dog on his shoulder. The music picks, from JME through to Burt Bacharach, and YouTube links are great too. Definitely one to watch.
Wedding moustachesare really hip right nowThe Miami Vicetheme tune is rock hardHow tostop a row in 30 secondsThe majestyof lower shutter speeds and hair in pony tailsCharlie Brookeris right about everythingYou can'tjudge a book by its coverJournalists lovefree stuff and The WireWhat Star Wars is liketo a three year old: The shiny guy always worriesA new wayto stop underage drinkingBicyclesare for fun not for stunts
Fallout 3, PC, PS3 (reviewed), Xbox 360You start life in a 1950s-style, transistor-era rendering of 2077, stuck in Vault 101, a nuclear fall-out shelter in post-apocalyptic Washington. Emerging into the shattered wasteland that used to be America, you're given a first tiny clue to follow if you'd like to investigate your father's disappearance. But, unlike Grand Theft Auto 4, there's no main plot that will continually ring your mobile or send you emails to get you back where you should be - you can literally go anywhere and do anything. Guns are scarce and demand regular repair to stay functioning, providing a constant need to forage and take on jobs, which - despite your best intentions - rarely seem to end up helping people. Atmospheric, thanks to the wistful 1950s music pumped out by its radio stations and the stark beauty of ruined America, the epic vastness and unfettered freedom here will captivate some and leave others completely bewildered.• Bethesda, &pound;34.99-&pound;49.99Motorstorm: Pacific Rift, PS3The original Motorstorm's release alongside the PlayStation 3 caused awe at its staggering HD graphics and confusion, as its slightly leftfield approach to multi-vehicular racing left players who were expecting an Excite Truck clone wondering what they'd bought. The sequel - while no less unconventional with its combination of motorbikes and monster trucks in the same race - highlights the mixed-blessing status of this diversity by forcing you to use all of them, no matter how dreary or unpredictable they are. Of the 16 courses on a variety of surfaces, five are brilliant while others can leave you dreading their reappearance, despite the game's enthusiasm for multiple branching routes. Thrashing around around large, obstacle-strewn tracks is inherently fun, but design inconsistencies and the uselessness of some vehicles provide too many moments of frustration.• SCEE, &pound;44.99
This week's posts from the gamesblog.MondayWhy I loved GameCity 3Gears of War 2: hands-on with the final codeTuesdayCar Jack Streets reviewPS2 becomes an open platformWednesdayNokia's big plans for mobile gamesStudy finds link between long-term aggression and video game violenceThursdayGeometry Wars interviewFridayPeggle Mobile reviewOneDotZero event at BFI Southbank
What's your favourite piece of technology?My computer – I have two, a Dell desktop P5, about 5 years old, and an IBM ultra-portable X40.How has it improved your life?Well the main thing is that it really removes a lot of the drudgery involved with writing. I wrote a book in 1980 and I realised that typing up the manuscript for final typesetting took about 48 hours, so I've been using a computer for writing since 1981. It increases the amount of creative time I can devote to the process.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This morning, and I used it to check my email and look at the Guardian website to check the news, and then to do some writing.What additional features would you add if you could?Voice recognition. I don't think it would replace typing, but I realised once I started writing that typing used a different part of my brain than writing by hand. I could use VR as a tool to basically increase my flexibility and give me a different approach to the text I'm working on.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No. Obviously the hardware will be – they are obsolete now, in one sense, because I can't do the latest gaming on them – but they are adequate for the work I do on them. Computers as tools I don't think will be obsolete for a very long time,What one tip would you give to non-computer users?Get your typewriter fixed and buy a new ribbon.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Neither. That's a really binary question, and I don't really think it's a binary world. I'm certainly not a luddite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Aside from my house, which is technology but not a gadget, that would be my stereo system. And some of it is English.Mac or PC?PC. I don't know that the difference between Mac and PC matters much these days. I think you get more value for the dollar out of PCs.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played list?It's actually Fritz Reiner's performance of Seigfried's Rhine Journey. I use my iPod only when travelling, and it's always the first piece I play when I turn it on.Will robots rule the world?No. I think we can use robots to manage a lot of things for us, but I think you have to assume creative thought when you start thinking about ruling the world.What piece of technology would you most like to own?It's one that doesn't exist – a machine that makes me less connected to the world. It's this idea that we become unconciously so connected and so available that it's hard to pull back and say I need time to think.Gunnar Hansenis best known for his role as Leatherface inThe Texas Chain Saw Massacre(the three-disc "Seriously Ultimate Edition" is out now in the UK). More recently, Hansen has just finished shootingReykjavik Whale Watching Massacrein Iceland
As the musician Brian Eno noted on the BBC's Question Time this week, Barack Obama's triumph was the first US presidential election that was won on the internet. While most pundits focused on the question of race, one largely overlooked factor was his powerful techno-demographic appeal.We know Obama's landmark victory was due in part to a groundswell of support among young Americans. Early in his campaign, political pollsters were observing that Obama was "rocking the youth vote". This was proved true: exit polls on Tuesday revealed that Obama had won nearly 70% of the vote among young Americans under 25 - the highest percentage since US exit polling began in 1976. Obama, in a word, enjoyed a groundswell of support among the Facebook generation.This was the first election where all the candidates - presidential and congressional - attempted to connect directly with American voters via online social networking sites such as Facebook and MySpace. (It has even been called the "Facebook election".) It is no coincidence that one of Obama's key strategists was 24-year-old Chris Hughes, a Facebook co-founder. Hughes masterminded the Obama campaign's highly effective web blitzkrieg on everything from social networking sites to podcasting and mobile messaging.Facebook was not unaware of its suddenly powerful role in American electoral politics. During the presidential campaign, the site launched its own forum to encourage online debates about voter issues. Facebook also teamed up with the major television network, ABC, for election coverage and political forums. Another old media outlet, CNN, teamed up with YouTube to hold presidential debates.Obama's masterful leveraging of web 2.0 platforms marks a major e-ruption in electoral politics – in America and elsewhere - as campaigning shifts from old-style political machines, focussed on charming those at the top of organisations, towards the horizontal dynamics of online social networks. The web, a perfect medium for genuine grassroots political movements, is transforming the power dynamics of politics. There are no barriers to entry on sites like Facebook and YouTube. Power is diffused towards the edges because everybody can participate. It's being used not only for vote-getting but - as the Obama campaign demonstrated - for grassroots fundraising toototalling more than $160m(£80m) from people who gave comparatively tiny amounts - $200 or less.But what's also remarkable about the Obama team's online efforts is how comparatively cheap they were. TechChrunchsays that Obama's spending on online advertising was comparatively tiny - $7.97m(£4m) - which pales into insignificance against his TV spending, including $4m on a half-hour TV special in the final week alone. (And $3.5m of the online spend was on adwords by Google searches. The figures for Facebook was tiny - $467,000 in total, almost all ($370,000) in September.The thing about the web though is that it's a low-cost, high-reach place. According to a survey by U.S.-based Pew Research Center, 46% of Americans used the web, email or text messaging for news about the presidential campaign, to contribute to the debate, or to mobilise others. Some 35% of Americans said they'd watched online political videos - three times more than during the 2004 presidential election. (Unsurprising, perhaps: YouTube hadn't been created then.) And roughly 10% said they'd logged on to social networking sites to engage in the election.Obama, who was often seen thumbing messages on his BlackBerry during the campaign, has a shrewd understanding of the electoral power of the web. Pulling out all the web 2.0 stops, his campaign used not only Facebook and YouTube, but also MySpace, Twitter, Flickr, Digg, BlackPlanet, LinkedIn, AsianAve, MiGente, Glee - and others.Obama was by a long stretch the most effective online politician during the presidential campaign – not only against John McCain, but earlier too against his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton. For the past two years, Facebook has overwhelmingly been pro-Obama virtual territory. While political pundits were following the Obama-Clinton head-butting on the hustings, Obama was outmanoeuvring his Democratic rival below the radar on Facebook. In early 2007, more than a year before he won his party's nomination, Obama had attracted a massive following on Facebook while Hillary Clinton was struggling with the negative fallout of a Facebook movement called "Stop Hillary Clinton". While Obama's Facebook page had attracted more than 250,000 members, Clinton's page counted a paltry 3,200.At 47, he may be older than the average user there, but Obama is a natural Facebook politician. On his personal profile there - which featured his "Our Moment is Now" motto - Obama named his favourite musicians as Miles Davis, Stevie Wonder, and Bob Dylan, and listed his pastimes as basketball, writing, and "loafing w/kids" (note the hip shorthand).The 72-year-old John McCain, by contrast, never managed to connect on Facebook. He gave one of his pastimes as "fishing" - which may be popular in some places, but ain't hip - and listed Letters from Iwo Jima among his favourite movies. His profile even got "punked" by a prankster who hacked it and posted a phony policy announcement on his online profile: "Dear supporters, today I announce that I have reversed my position and come out in full support of gay marriage...particularly marriage between two passionate females."The statistics are telling. Obama had more than 2 million American supporters on Facebook; McCain, just over 600,000. On the microblogging platform Twitter, Obama could count on more than 112,000 supporters "tweeting" to get him elected. McCain, for his part, had only 4,600 followers on Twitter. (A map of declared support by American Twitter users found every state overwhelmingly Democrat, apart from South Dakota - which was only "mildly" Democrat.)On YouTube, Obama's supporters uploaded more than 1,800 videos onto the BarackObama.com channel, which counted about 115,000 subscribers. The channel attracted more than 97 million video views by some 18 million channel visits. Compare that to McCain's YouTube presence: only330videos were uploaded to the JohnMcCain.com channel, which attracted just over 28,000 subscribers. The McCain channel attracted barely more than 2 million visits and some 25 million video views. Obama beat McCain 4 to 1.The YouTube coup de grace was the blockbuster "Yes We Can" videoclip. The viral circulation of that video, watched by millions of Americans only days after it was first posted, gave Obama solid electoral credibility in Middle America. Suddenly he was like a pop star on MTV. The video wasn't even made by the Obama campaign team: it was produced spontaneously by the hip hop star Will.i.am, from the group Black Eyed Peas.Obama also effectively used podcasts and electoral messaging to mobile devices (he had already been doing so as a U.S. Senator). As one observer put it: "While Obama was making great use of podcasts, John McCain was missing in action." The McCain campaign finally came up with the idea of posting a videogame called "Pork Invaders" on his Facebook page to underscore the war hero candidate's determination to take on Washington "pork barrelling" (in which politicians manouevre lucrative schemes for their areas into legislation, to ensure reelection or repay favours bought to get them elected). The Obama team, meanwhile, was harnessing the power of network effects through an "Obama app" for iPhones, which allowed supporters to spread the pro-Obama message to everyone on their contact list.The internet had already been deployed in political campaigns, but mainly to raise money. As voters shift by the million towards the internet to interact, to buy things and to participate in politics, those seeking office are rushing to establish an online presence and connect on the ground. During the U.S. elections, more than 500 American politicians had their own Facebook page.Many more will in future elections – not only in the United States, but also in Britain, France, Germany, Canada, Australia and other democracies. In the UK, Gordon Brown has a Number 10 channel on YouTube where voters can submit questions to the Prime Minister - and even see them asnwered. Many other British politicians meanwhile are using Facebook pages to connect with their constituency voters. Liberal Democrat MP, Steve webb, was briefly in the news when, to his consternation, Facebook deleted his profile believing it to be a forgery. A more colourful Lib Dem, Lembit Opik, has been using Facebook in his bid for the party leadership. The Conservatives, for their part, have a Facebook page featuring the uninspired slogan "Your Country Needs You". And last year David Cameron used the site to make his policy pledges and launched a £500,000 ad campaign to attract online "friends". Labour politicians on Facebook include Peter Hain, Hillary Benn and Hazel Blears.Yet Blears, the communities secretary,clearly has mixed feelings about people power on the web. While she recently bemoaned civic disengagement from politics in Britain compared with the inspiring surge of political participation in America, Blears nonetheless turned her wrath on political bloggers – apparently because many of them are conservative.In truth, the open-ended social dynamics of the web 2.0 universe give free access to anybody. It's up to British politicians, who indeed are lagging behind their American counterparts, to harness its energies. From now on, success in electoral politics depends on having friends in low places.Matthew Fraser is Senior Research Fellow and Soumitra Dutta is Roland Berger Chaired Professor of Business and Technology at INSEAD. Their book, Throwing Sheep in the Boardroom: How Online Social Networking Will Change Your Life, Work and World, will be published by Wiley in the UK this month and in the Unites States in January. They also have theThrowing Sheep blog.
It shows my internet age, but I really do remember when we would gather around the screen of the only internet-connected computer in the office to see what Yahoo was recommending as the Cool Site of the Day. That was back in the days when the web was pretty much human-sized; all you needed was a few people overseeing your spidering program (which followed the links) and they could have a look at what interesting new things had been created today, and choose one.Long gone, of course. And with it, Yahoo's special place in the web firmament. OK, perhaps that's an exaggeration. But if there's anything that indicates how far Yahoo has fallen, it is in thethree pieces of newsthis week: that its ad deal with Google is off, that it would like Microsoft to buy it, and that it is still talking to AOL about buying it (or perhaps merging the two).The first means that Yahoo has no future; the second that it has no hope; the third that it has no idea.And it all adds up, in my view, to Jerry Yang having no future there. I think if he's still chief executive by the end of the year, he'll be living on borrowed time. (I don't say that out of animosity; I just think the task he faces in trying to make Yahoo relevant are beyond him – and perhaps anyone.)None of those three is the direct cause of Yahoo's problems. They're all symptoms. The real root cause of the trouble lies years back, in the appointment in May 2001 of Terry Semel as its chief executive: he came from Warner Bros, the movie studio, and so what he knew about was content. Semel simply had the wrong idea about where Yahoo could make money. But then, so have many people down the years when it comes to the internet. In January 2006 Semel announced that Yahoo would "introduce free software – designed for computers hooked up to television sets – that will compete with the Windows Media Center of Microsoft."Oh yes? Tell us more. As theNew York Times told it, "This software will allow viewers to use a television set, not merely a computer screen, to see any of Yahoo's offerings of video content – from music videos to original news reports – and the more than one million video clips in its video search service. It will offer a TV program guide, similar to those offered on digital cable services, but Yahoo's version will include reviews and ratings of shows from its users."Anyone actually seen this? Anyone actually using it? Do tell.The problem was in thinking that Yahoo could compete on content, which (asJeff Jarvis has pointed out) got completely the wrong idea about what was special about Yahoo. It wasn't content. Anyone can do content. What Yahoo had, for a while, was location: you could do email and stocks and find news. But when Googlelaunched Gmail in April 2004, offering gigabytes of storage for free, it cut the legs from under Yahoo's (and Hotmail's) financial model for online email (where paid-for accounts were needed to get more than a measly few megabytes of storage). Which left it looking at advertising.But Google was all over that too, having come upon a near-perfect contextualisation system. Yahoo meanwhile was left wondering if it was a content company or a technology company. The confusion went right back to those first days. It had a great spider – the technology – but presented its results as content. Yahoo's mistake was going for the wrong aspect of Cool Site of the Day. It wasn't about cool. It was about finding it in a day.Having displaced Semel, though, Yang is floundering. The idea of tying up with AOL – which, having clung too long to its dialup model for revenue, and thus saw customers abandon it for broadband – is similarly rooted in the idea of Yahoo as a content provider, which it never should want to be. Search engines don't provide content; they point to it.Similarly, Yahoo has dozens of clever technical offerings, such as itsPipesproduct, which lets you roll your own processing on RSS feeds or webpages to create new ways of bringing content together. That's the sort of thing that made Yahoo great originally; now, it's forgotten.Being bought by Microsoft – which I now don't believe will happen, at least to Yahoo as a whole – would mean the evisceration of the company. It wouldn't be pretty, and I think Steve Ballmer has finally woken up and realised how foolish it would be. Buying (or merging with) AOL might or might not happen, but it would only be as useful as two men falling out of a plane wrestling over a rucksack holding a millstone. And losing the ad deal with Google means that Yahoo can't grow as fast as its bigger rival any more.It won't vanish, but Yahoo is now beginning the long, slow goodbye. We'll probably miss it when it's gone. Then again, does anyone remember Excite.com? There was a time when that was going to be the future of the web – offering high-speed broadband to every home for next to nothing. Excite hasvanished. But you'll notice that the web's still here. Yahoo's on the slide. But the web will live on.
Originally only the preserve of suit-clad businessmen, the BlackBerry has been making its presence felt in the consumer market since the arrival of the Pearl a few years back, but tomorrow will see the UK launch of what is likely to be its most popular consumer device to date — the Storm.It is the first touchscreen BlackBerry and will be exclusive to Vodafone, which has been working with creator RIM for over a year on the handset.Already the mobile phone company — which will be offering the Storm in 10 countries worldwide — has received pre-orders from well over 100,000 British customers who want one when it goes on sale.The phone is RIM's response too the growing popularity of touchscreen devices, which was sparked by the arrival of the iPhone a year and a half ago. Vodafone lost out on the iPhone to bitter rival O2 in the UK.More recently, Nokia has jumped on the touchscreen bandwagon — which has to date been dominated by Asian manufacturers such as LG and Samsung — while T-Mobile made a major splash recently with the G1, the first handset to include Google's Android operating system.The G1 is, of course, made by HTC which recently launched its own-brand full touchscreen device — called the HTC Touch HD.The Storm, meanwhile, is free to anyone willing to sign up to a two year contract at £35 a month, making it cheaper than the G1 and iPhone.Nokia has yet to sign up an operator for its touchscreen phone in the UK.
Bletchley Park – the code breaking centre made famous for its role in cracking the Enigma code during the second world war – looks set to be saved from extinction after a £330,000 grant from English Heritage.Bletchley made its name by playing host to a team ofmathematicianswho used an early supercomputer, Colossus, to decipher Nazi codes. Cracking Enigma was recognised as one of the great achievements of the war, and helped Allied forces to victory after they began intercepting enemy communications.Although Bletchley has been feted for its part in history – even becoming the subject of afeature film produced by Mick Jagger in 2001– the estate has fallen into disrepair over the past decade.Faced with the potential loss of the site, a group of academicsbegan campaigningfor funds to help the restoration effort earlier this year.In an open letter to the Times, the group warned that the estate was "a crucial and unique piece of both British and world heritage" that was being allowed to rot without public assistance.Campaigners had already raised more than £5m since 1992, and in August, Bletchley opened theNational Museum of Computing. This effort was soon backed by computer giant IBM and the security company PGP Corporation – which both donated significant sums to the cause.But the £330,000, three-year grant from English Heritage – the arm of the government that oversees historic monuments and sites – should finally help seal its long-term future if it succeeds in finding matching donations from private donors."It marks the start of a regeneration initiative to transform Bletchley Park into a world-class heritage and education centre," said Simon Greenish, the director of the Bletchley Park Trust.Among those stationed at the estate in Buckinghamshire was Alan Turing, the British mathematician who went on to become a leading figure in the development of the computer industry and made significant advances in artificial intelligence.
Samsung has just overtaken Motorola and is now the leading mobile phone supplier in the US market, according to US research firmStrategy Analytics. In the latest quarter (Q3), Samsung had 22.4% of the market, ahead of Motorola (21.1%) and another Korean company, LG Electronics (20.5%). According toReuters:"Samsung's growing retail presence and an attractive high-tier handset portfolio for all of the big four operators have proved crucial in grabbing the prestigious title of the No 1 vendor in the world's single largest handset market," analyst Bonny Joy said in a statement.Update: In response to a comment from slabman (Bigger than China?), I asked Bonny Joy, who responded: "In terms of revenue US is the biggest market, 2008 revenues are expected to be at 25 Billion USD." In passing, Research in Motion had 10.2% of the US market while Apple, with just one handset, had 5.7%.When I talked to Microsoft recently for aTechnology cover story, Alex Reeve extolled Samsung's Omnia models, which run Windows Mobile 6.1. They also have 5 megapixel auto-focus camera with image stabilisation, and Wi-Fi. The newT-Omnia, available only in South Korea, has a 3.3 inch 480 x 800 WVGA touch screen and DMB, so users can watch mobile TV. Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer turned up for the launch in Seoul on November 3.The original Omnia -- which has a 3.2 inch 240 x 400 WQVGA touch screen -- is available in Europe and will reach the US soon, if it hasn't already.
