British firmMonterosais launching a set of tools to help TV companies make their own "second-screen" apps and websites designed to be used by viewers while watching their shows.The tools will be invitation-only for now, and are aimed at broadcasters, producers and brands. As part of their launch, Monterosa has struck a deal with social TV startup Zeebox that means companies using its platform will also be able to make their content available through Zeebox's apps.Monterosa developed the tools based on the second-screen projects it has worked on with broadcasters, with the most prominent being a play-along web game for Endemol's Million Pound Drop game-show, whichattracted 1.3m playersover the show's first two series on Channel 4 in the UK."After two years of experimentation, we feel that we know enough as an industry and a company to not just replicate, but identify the recurring themes of what works in the second-screen world," says Monterosa's commercial director Tom McDonnell."What we've proved is that when you shout out to a really enthusiastic, engaged audience, they like nothing better than to get involved."The new set of tools could be used to create synchronised quizzes, audience polling and other interactive features, with the key point being that the TV firms will be creating them."This puts control back in the hands of the creative producers who don't necessarily have to pay a lot of cash to an agency like us any more!" says McDonnell."It's up to them, and we see that their teams are starting to engage with this. They see the opportunity, so our mission is to give them the mechanics to do it themselves."This could be seen as Monterosa disrupting its own business, although McDonnell stresses that the company remains focused on working with TV companies on more ambitious, innovative projects – particularly in TV genres where second-screen hasn't made much of an impact yet.McDonnell says Zeebox was a logical first partner for Monterosa's new tools, since its Showtime feature is designed for exactly this kind of interactive content."They've realised that although you can create some quite interesting conceptual experiences by importing data from places like Wikipedia and iTunes, that can feel a bit hollow if you don't also have someone involved in the show crafting the second screen as much as they crafted the first," he says.McDonnell is keen not to overstate the importance of Monterosa's self-service platform – it's a closed-invitation affair for now – but he does suggest it will be as useful for smaller digital channels with audiences around the 100,000 mark as for the largest broadcasters.The tools can be used by broadcasters, producers and brands. One of the interesting themes of the recent MIPTV conference was the question of control: which of these groups is best placed to be in charge of second-screen apps and sites?Or to relate it to a real-world example, in theory, second-screen activity around a UK show like X Factor could come from ITV (the broadcaster), FremantleMedia (the producer), or TalkTalk (the brand sponsor).Plus there are startups like Zeebox, GetGlue and Shazam buzzing around the edges, as well as emerging interest in second-screen apps from device makers and ISPs/mobile operators. As second-screen apps start to get more advertising and/or commerce features, this could be an interesting battle for control."Nobody knows how it will shake out," says McDonnell. "What I will say is that broadcasters don't want to actively promote a third-party service that will capture audience data and monetise it, without the broadcaster getting a cut of the action. And the second screen isn't being used for anything unless the TV show actively promotes it, which requires the broadcaster's involvement."More clarity will come with time, including the first projects created using Monterosa's tools. In the meantime, McDonnell is bullish about the future importance of second-screen for the TV industry."I'm firmly of the belief that there isn't any type of TV that doesn't have an interactive slant to it in the future," he says."That's not to say all of it all the time. There's nothing quite like watching a piece of drama and not doing anything else. But think about the way the phone-in made radio relevant – talk radio without a phone-in seems somehow wrong now. I think TV is headed in the same direction."He also has a riposte for critics of the buzz around second-screen apps and content, who wonder whether people looking at smartphones, tablets and laptops on the sofa is a bad thing for TV, rather than a good thing – a distraction rather than an enhancement."The people who will do something with your content are the people who are most interested in your show," he says. "It's the most engaged, not the least engaged. You're super-serving your customer. But there is still a misunderstanding that these things are mutually exclusive."
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamInside the DOJ's ebook price-fixing case against Apple: an analysis &gt;&gt; The VergeThey read the PDF of the complaint (linked in the article):Although Apple is listed as the first defendant, the bulk of the case is really about the publishers involved: Hachette, HarperCollins, Macmillan, Penguin, and Simon &amp; Schuster. According to the government, these publishers greatly feared Amazon's $9.99 Kindle book prices, which they called "wretched," and worked for years on a scheme to raise prices and limit competition. They also feared that consumers would get used to paying $9.99 for bestsellers and ultimately decrease publishing profits. Apple was more than willing to help; it wanted favorable deals as it entered the ebook market combined with higher margins on more-expensive products.What's not quite explained is how a new entrant with an unproven product (the iPad) could disrupt the established player (Amazon) by charginghigherprices. Unless, of course, the publishers declined to let Amazon sell the ebooks. But equally, collusion for price-fixing is illegal, in the US and elsewhere. Apple's first antitrust case: one to savour.Chinese app stores host malicious apps &gt;&gt; The RegisterAlthough there are no reliable stats, China appears to have a big problem when it comes to malicious mobile apps either finding their way onto legitimate sites such as those run by the operators, or dubious third party platforms.Roy Ko, a consultant at the Hong Kong Computer Emergency Response Team Coordination Center, told The Register that part of the problem lies with Chinese mobile users themselves."In China people like to crack software and make it available for free but that is dangerous because Google Play at least has some quality control, but on the other sites you get these cracked apps alongside malicious ones," he argued.The most common end goal for the creators of these malicious apps is either to steal data, or make money out of premium dialler malware, although increasingly hackers are using these infection channels to turn smartphones into botnets, Ko explained.Four problems Google Glasses have to solve before becoming a hit &gt;&gt; Co.DesignGood points, and don't rule out the possibility of their becoming a hit. Just point out that the obstacles aren't trivial.Of Microsoft, Netscape, Patents and Open Standards &gt;&gt; ComputerworldHere's what Netscapesaidin 1997, when it received the SSL patent:"Netscape Communications (NSCP) quietly received a patent last month for one of the most popular types of encryption on the Internet, but the company says it will continue to give it away for free."The encryption in question is the Secure Sockets Layer protocol, or SSL. Both Navigator and Internet Explorer browsers use it to secure Web-based information, including credit card numbers, stock information, and private documents. Netscape applied for the patent back in 1995. The US Patent and Trademark Office granted the patent last month.Even though SSL is heavily used in servers, browsers, and other networked products, Netscape said it has no plans to start charging developers for the source code or to impose other conditions."We don't want to discourage developers from using our platform," said spokesman Christopher Hoover. "An SSL license would be a real hurdle. It's not an income source that's necessary to exploit."Guess now: which company bought the SSL patent from AOL last week?Windows Project Glass: One day too... &gt;&gt; YouTubeIf Microsoft did Project Glass... (thanks @rquick for the link)Instagram as an island economy &gt;&gt; InterconnectedMatt Webb of Berg:The other day I picked some choice quotes from 'Marx at 193' (an article by John Lanchester). Here's one: This idea of labour being hidden in things, and the value of things arising from the labour congealed inside them, is an unexpectedly powerful explanatory tool in the digital world.What is the labour encoded in Instagram? It's easy to see.We've until now been missing a Marxist analysis of the Instagram takeover.Google is not the Enemy &gt;&gt; osm.gryph.deMakes the point that Google has helped OpenStreetMap, and concludes:Google is just an organisation like every other organisation; they're not exempt from the rule that if you aren't careful, self-serving managers will rise to the top, where a personal agenda or reaching this or that far-fetched goal to boast your manager creds might be more important than doing the right thing. It is good of us to watch Google, and to elbow them in the ribs every now and then. But in the grand scheme of things - in the whole "crowd-sourced hive-mind world-wide collective vs. government-and-business-controlled data cathedrals" arena - Google is on the same side as we are. More so, perhaps, than a couple other organisations who vie for our affection.About Pando &gt;&gt; UncrunchedMichael Arrington:Some of you may have read Sarah Lacy'spost todaystating that I'm no longer on the board of Pando Daily.This wasn't a complete surprise to me, the company notified me last week that they weren't happy that I and MG Siegler (my partner at CrunchFund) weregoing to speakat TechCrunch Disrupt this coming May.Part of the reason that I'm speaking at Disrupt is that I have a contractual commitment to do so as part of mybreakwith them last year, which Sarah knew about before our involvement in Pando. But MG and I are also speaking there because we still love TechCrunch. And we both speak at many other conferences as well.Hints of trouble in paradise. (Read thisif you need reminders on Techcrunch and Pandodaily.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
What's going on today then? Anything to tell us about games?
Google says 170m people have registered for its Google+ service since it was launched 10 months ago – and that 100m have "engaged" with the service at least once in the past 30 days and 50m have engaged with the service at least once a day in the past month.The announcement came as the company revealed a facelift for the service, which it billed as being a means of making "sharing more awesome" with functionality for full-size photos, videos, a new "navigation ribbon" and "conversation cards" allowing users to dip in and out of chats with their circles of friends, family and business contacts.The "hangout" feature, which lets people create ad-hoc video chats, is more prominent, with its own dedicated page.A makeover so soon after launch is not surprising for Google, whose philosophy is all about iterative change.But it will intensify the spotlight on the company's battle to take on Facebook, which dominates social networking with more than 850m users.Since January, new users signing up for Google services such as a YouTube or Gmail account have had to create a Google+ profile: in the past three months, that has added 80m people,says Search Engine Watch.  In all, Gmail has 350m users worldwide.There is widespread industry suspicion that many of those who are classified by Google in itsblogpost about the revision as having "upgraded" to Google+had a look at the service and not returned, depressing frequency of use figures. Other studies have suggested that people use the service for far less time than other services: aComScore study released in Februaryfound that users spent an average of just three minutes on Google+ in the entire month of January - far behind Facebook, which consumed 18% of peoples' entire time online for January. Pinterest, Twitter and LinkedIn all saw more visitors who spent longer on the sites, ComScore said.Senior vice president Vic Gundotra says in the company's official blog that the new design will create "a more functional and flexible version of Google+" and will be rolled out over the next few days.He added: "We think you'll find it easier to use and nicer to look at, but most importantly, it accelerates our efforts to create a simpler, more beautiful Google."Simply put, we're hoping to make sharing more awesome by making it more evocative. You know that feeling you get when a piece of art takes your breath away, or when a friend stops by with unexpected gifts? We want sharing to feel like that, every single time," said Gundotra.In the US, Google has pushed Google+ profiles into search results - with the effect that a search for "Mark Zuckerberg" puts his Google+ page ahead of his Facebook page, a result which appeared distorted compared with previous Google search results.That drew protests from Twitter, Facebook and MySpace in January; a number of engineers from the three companieslaunched a plugin called "Don't Be Evil"to roll back its effects. However, it has not extended the changed search profile to Europe, where it is the subject of an antitrust investigation by the European commission, which could yet take further action.Initial reaction on Twitter was cynical. "Oooh, Google+ had a new look. How exciting. Now back to ignoring it." wrote Pablo Elizalde.Mark Wilson, at Fastcodesign,noted: "Google+ has failed to take off. And it's not even necessarily a fault of the product: Facebook is the de facto social network of our time. If there's a second in command, it's the more quick and casual Twitter. There are only so many social networks that we can all be social on every day."Other users have complained that because Google+ does not offer an API, there is no way to automatically upload content: any new post or "+1" of a post requires the user to log in, thus boosting the apparent user numbers. By contrast, Facebook and Twitter offer comprehensive APIs so that users can add content from a variety of apps and third-party systems.
Shares in Nokia plunged by 14% on Wednesday after it warned it expects to lose money for the first six months of this year, blaming strong competition for smartphone sales, "particularly in India, the Middle East, Africa and China", among other factors.The once dominant Finnish mobile phone maker said in a statement that its mobile revenues will be about €4.2bn, a 40% year-on-year fall, which would translate to a loss of €126m (£104m). It would be the sixth quarter in a row in which Nokia's mobile operating profit has declined. The company expects no improvement in the second quarter. Full first-quarter results will be announced on 19 April.Nokia's chief executive, Stephen Elop, said in February 2011 that its ageing Symbian smartphone software was a "burning platform" and that the firm needed to join the "war of ecosystems" being waged by Apple and Google with their own smartphone software, instead of a "battle of handsets". To do that, Nokia needed to adopt Microsoft's software. But so far there has been little sign of consumers or businesses moving with it.Sales of Nokia's new top-end Lumia smartphones, which run the newer Windows Phone software, have been sluggish. More than 2m were sold in the first quarter, to add to around 1m in the previous three months. But the Lumia's average selling prices (ASPs) to mobile networks was  €220 (£189). Across its entire smartphone range, the ASP was €140.By contrast, Apple's iPhone average was $650, which has allowed the US firm to capture a substantial share of the profits in the handset market.Nokia once dominated the smartphone market, defining it in the early part of the century. But the rise first of Apple and more recently of cheap handsets running Google's free Android software has devastated the Finnish firm's profits and sales, cutting its share of the smartphone market from about 40% a few years ago to less than 10% in the first quarter of this year.Nokia's latest profit warning comes as the smartphone market is becoming increasingly polarised, even as it grows in importance.Apple and the South Korean firm Samsung dominate the top end. The two accounted for almost half of the 149m worldwide smartphone sales in the last quarter of 2011. At the low end, Chinese handset makers such as ZTE and Huawei, using Android software, threaten to undercut many established brands, including HTC, Motorola, BlackBerry maker Research In Motion and Nokia.The warning also comes after Nokia last week renewed its assault on the US smartphone market – where half of users have yet to shift from older so-called "feature" phones – with the Lumia 900 handset. But even that was hobbled after Nokia admitted that a software bug means its new smartphone drops data connections to the AT&amp;T network on which it is being sold exclusively.Nokia is offering a $100 credit to anyone who has bought one of the phones and expects to have a software update to fix the problem next week. "It's like they stalled their engine when everybody is looking at them at the start of the race," said Carolina Milanesi, an analyst at Gartner.Elop, who ditched Nokia's own Symbian smartphone platform after being hired from Microsoft in 2010, described the results outlook as "disappointing" . He added: "We are increasing the clock speed of the company."Pete Cunningham, an analyst at Canalys, said:  "The main problem is that appetite for Symbian handsets has evaporated, and it can't ramp up Windows Phone volumes quick enough."Milanesi said: "Nokia is feeling pressure in the mobile phones market as cheap Android products are hitting the streets in markets such as India and China."Ben Wood, of CCS Insight, said: "Nokia's challenges have been exacerbated by rampant competition – notably Apple and Samsung, who are extracting a disproportionate amount of margin from the industry at present."Though the world's biggest volume maker of handsets, Nokia lost the top&nbsp;spot in the smartphone market to Apple and others last year, owing in part to its weak performance in the US where its smartphone market share fell to less than a 1%.Nokia's shares had dropped more than 50% since it announced the move to Microsoft in February 2011. By the end of Wednesday, Nokia was valued at €16.2bn.Nokia timelineOct-Dec 2009Nokia sells 126.9m phones worldwide, a record. First phones running Google's Android software unveiled.April-June 201010m Android phones are sold – 17% of the market. Nokia's Symbian has 41%.August 2010Under pressure, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo quits as chief executive, to be replaced by Stephen Elop, formerly head of Microsoft's Business division.Oct-Dec 2010Nokia sells 123.7m phones, just below its record. Android has 31% of smartphone sales – against Symbian's 32%. Apple has 16% of the market.February 2011Elop tells Nokia staff the Symbian software is a "burning platform" and Nokia must abandon it. Announces a tie-up with Microsoft. In future, Windows Phone will be Nokia's weapon against Google and Apple.October 2011Nokia Lumia phones go on sale in Europe.Oct-Dec 2011About 1m Lumia 800 phones are sold. Apple sells that many iPhone 4S phones in a day after its release and 35m in the quarter – more than Nokia has ever managed. Samsung passes Nokia for sales.April 2012Nokia says it has sold only 83m phones in the quarter, a fall of 24% on 2011. Of those, 2m are Lumias. It will make a loss for the first six months of the year, the sixth quarter in a row that mobile profits have fallen. Stock falls 14%, having fallen 50% in the past year.
Jack Tramiel, who has died aged 83, will be remembered as the father of the Commodore 64, which dominated the home computer market of the 1980s. It shipped more than 20m units – an astonishing number at the time – and was often described as&nbsp;the bestselling computer of&nbsp;all time.Unlike most of his competitors, Tramiel (pronounced Tra-mell) was not a technology geek. He was a jovial, cigar-smoking, balding and somewhat portly Jewish businessman known for hard bargaining and for the slogan: "Business is war." He drove down costs, cut prices and marketed the hell out of whatever he was selling. He said he targeted "the masses, not the&nbsp;classes".No one would have predicted Tramiel becoming, somewhat briefly, America's most successful computer tycoon. An&nbsp;only child, he was born, according to&nbsp;differing accounts, as Idek Tramielski or Jacek Trzmiel, in Lodz, Poland, which&nbsp;was occupied by the Nazis in&nbsp;1939. In 1944, Tramiel's family was sent from the city's Jewish ghetto to Auschwitz. He was finally liberated from the Ahlem labour camp, near Hanover, by&nbsp;the US army in April 1945. His father did not survive.The 18-year-old Tramiel married Helen Goldgrub, a Bergen-Belsen survivor, in 1947, then emigrated to&nbsp;the US. In 1948 he joined the&nbsp;US army, where he learned how to repair office equipment. On leaving in 1952, he used a&nbsp;$25,000 GI loan to set up a repair shop, Commodore Portable Typewriter, in the Bronx, New York. In 1955 he founded Commodore Business Machines, in Toronto, to import and sell typewriters, moving to California in&nbsp;1968.Tramiel's lucky break came in the person of Chuck Peddle, lead designer at MOS Technology. Commodore had bought this small American chip manufacturer to supply parts for its pocket calculators. Peddle told him that computers were the future, and that MOS had developed the cheap 6502 microprocessor, which appeared later in the Apple II, Acorn BBC and other home computers. He let Peddle design the Commodore PET (personal electronic transactor) around the 6502, and in 1977 CBM entered the computer market.The PET was followed by the limited but very cheap Vic-20, and in 1982 by the Commodore 64. This was marketed for its huge 64K of memory, though only 38K was free to the built-in Basic. The C64 used custom MOS Technology sound and graphics, so no rival was able to get anywhere near its $595 price. Tramiel duly started a price war, reducing it in stages to $199.Commodore did $1bn worth of&nbsp;business in 1983, then Tramiel suddenly resigned after a dispute with the company chairman, the Canadian financier (and major shareholder) Irving Gould. He was not away for long. A few months later, he bought the ailing Atari consumer games business from Warner Brothers, and went head-to-head against Commodore in the old 8-bit and new 16-bit markets. However, he soon started to take a back seat, and his three sons took over the bulk of the work.The main US computer companies were moving from the 6502 and its ilk to the 16/32-bit Motorola 68000 processor: Apple with the Macintosh, Commodore with the Amiga, and Tramiel's Atari with the 520ST, known as the Jackintosh. It delivered most of the capabilities of the Mac for a fraction of the price. However, IBM-compatible PCs were taking over the market, and Microsoft Windows dominated the 1990s. Commodore declared bankruptcy in 1994, with only Commodore UK surviving into 1995.Atari tried to innovate with the Lynx colour handheld games console, the 64-bit Jaguar and the Atari Portfolio, the first PC-compatible palmtop. None took off. Tramiel sold up in 1996 and retired to Monte Sereno, California, with a&nbsp;palatial house and two Rolls-Royces.Outside computing, Tramiel gave talks about the Holocaust at schools and universities, and he was a founding philanthropic supporter of theUnited States Holocaust Memorial Museumin&nbsp;Washington, DC. He never forgot.Tramiel is survived by Helen, their three sons, Sam, Leonard and Garry, and&nbsp;five grandchildren.• Jack Tramiel, businessman, born 13 December 1928; died 8 April 2012Commodore 64 – 25th Anniversary CelebrationJack Tramiel, Commodore Computers founder, interviewed
The US government has accused Apple and five book publishers of colluding to fix the prices of ebooks.A lawsuit filed in New York on Wednesdaysaid Apple had conspired with publishers in response to Amazon's success in selling ebooks for just under $10.It said the alleged price-fixing came as Apple prepared to launched the iPad and was guaranteed a 30% commission on each ebook sold.The publishers listed in the lawsuit include Hachette SA, HarperCollins, Macmillan, Penguin and Simon &amp; Schuster.Hachette, HarperCollins and Simon &amp; Schuster settled their suits on Wednesday. Bloomberg News reported that Apple and Macmillan had refused to engage in settlement talks with the US department of justice, and will argue that pricing agreements between Apple and publishers improved competition in a field that had been hitherto dominated by Amazon.Apple has not yet made a statement in reaction to the legal action.Announcing the lawsuit at a press conference in Washington on Wednesday, US attorney-general Eric Holder described shadowy back-room meetings, where Apple would each quarter get together with publishers to discuss "confidential competitive matters" and set the prices of their ebooks.Holder said: "Beginning in the summer of 2009, we allege that executives at the highest levels of the companies included in today's lawsuit – concerned that ebook sellers had reduced prices – worked together to eliminate competition among stores selling ebooks, ultimately increasing prices for consumers. As a result of this alleged conspiracy, we believe that consumers paid millions of dollars more for some of the most popular titles.""Our investigation even revealed that one CEO allegedly went so far as to encourage an ebook retailer to punish another publisher for not engaging in these illegal practices."Holder also defined the terms of the settlement with Hachette, HarperCollins and Simon &amp; Schuster, which would require the publishers "to grant retailers – such as Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble – the freedom to reduce the prices of their ebook titles."The complaint, which was filed by the antitrust division of the US department of justice, read: "Apple facilitated the publisher defendants' collective effort to end retail price competition by coordinating their transition to an agency model across all retailers."With Apple's iBookstore, ebook authors and sellers must hand over a 30% cut of each sale. Under this system, known as the "agency model", publishers, rather than vendors, set the prices, giving Apple and the publishers an incentive to charge more.The lawsuit reads: "As a result of discussions with the publisher defendants, Apple learned that the publisher defendants shared a common objective with Apple to limit ebook retail price competition, and that the publisher defendants also desired to have popular ebook retail prices stabilise at levels significantly higher than $9.99."Together, Apple and the publisher defendants reached an agreement whereby retail price competition would cease (which all the conspirators desired), retail ebook prices would increase significantly (which the publisher defendants desired), and Apple would be guaranteed a 30% 'commission' on each ebook it sold (which Apple desired)."Amazon's pricing model, by contrast, gives ebook authors and sellers greater flexibility to price what they like for their work.John Sarget, the chief executive officer of MacMillan, said in a letter to authors, illustrators and agents that the company has not settled because it is "hard to settle a lawsuit when you know you have done no wrong."He said: "Macmillan did not act illegally. Macmillan did not collude."Sargent said the filing of the lawsuit came after discussions with the department ofj ustice that lasted months. "But the terms the DOJ demanded were too onerous. After careful consideration, we came to the conclusion that the terms could have allowed Amazon to recover the monopoly position it had been building before our switch to the agency model," he said."We also felt the settlement the DOJ wanted to impose would have a very negative and long term impact on those who sell books for a living, from the largest chain stores to the smallest independents."John Makinson, chairman and CEO of Penguin, wrote in a statement: "A responsible company does not choose a path of litigation with US government agencies without carefully weighing the implications of that course of action."Penguin opted not to settle, according to Makinson, for two reasons: "The first is that we have done nothing wrong. The decisions that we took, many them of them costly and difficult, were taken by Penguin alone."The second reason, he said, is that "the agency model is the one that offers consumers the prospect of an open and competitive market for ebooks."
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 7 April 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Kinect Star Wars(12+)Xbox 360 (100)12 (1)Fifa Street(3+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)43 (2)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (29)PC (6)54 (5)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (37)Wii (6)PSP (3)285 (3)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 13(3+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (41)26 (7)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (40)PC (5)Wii (3)227 (10)SSX (3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)68 (9)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (69)3DS (31)199 (8)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (34)PC (5)2410 (11)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (38)PC (12)2211 (13)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (36)PC (1)2012 (–)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (46)Xbox 360 (31)PS3 (16)3DS (6)1413 (–)Moshi Monsters: Moshling Zoo (3+)DS (100)614 (–)Mario Party 9 (3+)Wii (100)515 (19)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (48)1416 (16)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)PC (2)2017 (–)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (76)Xbox 360 (17)PS3 (7)2418 (–)Devil May Cry HD Collection (16+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (50)119 (–)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Xbox 360 (26)Wii (26)DS (19)PS3 (18)720 (–)Street Fighter X Tekken(12+)PS3 (52)Xbox 360 (48)3UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
"This isn't about protecting children, it's about political harassment." These are the words of Jeff Brown, the VP of corporate communications of video games companyEA, given toGamesindustry Internationalwhen asked about the letter campaign that has targeted the LGBT content in EA's games – a campaign largely spearheaded by the conservative Florida-basedFamily Research Council. As one of the few larger game companies providing same-sex content to its audience, EA is caught in the crossfire in the larger political battle currently being waged on sexuality in the US.The impetus for Brown's statement concerns EA's most recent massively multiplayer online game (MMO),Star Wars: The Old Republic(SW:TOR), in which you choose whether to be a part of the Jedi or Sith orders. While the long-standing tradition has been that any romance in MMOs is instigated among its players, inBioWare's own inimitable fashion, the game allows you to create a narrative for the characters you create, including having a companion whom you can romance. As yet, that has not included same-sex options, though it is in store for the future; a future that has the Family Research Councilmaking inaccurate statementsregardingDarth VaPaula, complete with Photoshopped images ofRuPaul's head on Darth Vader's bodyand scare quotes about transgender characters.Setting aside that the games industry still has a rather dismal history concerning transgender individuals, and that SW:TOR has not made any indication it is stepping in that direction, there is a disconnect here regarding the fact that in an attack on children being corrupted by sexuality, somehow gender identity is suddenly brought into the equation. It also shows an ignorant lack of understanding of the differences between a gay man dressing in women's clothing for entertainment and a trans woman. Then again, there seems to be a fundamental misunderstanding about how the game even works: MMOs are not typically targeted toward children, despite the Star Wars franchise's moves in that direction.BioWare games tend to be known for their choices: are you playing a man or woman? Will you be a saint or megalomaniacal antihero? Are you romancing this character, that character, or no one? On the MMO landscape, thisbecomes an issuefor the Florida Family Association: "Children and teens, who choose non-social agenda characters, would be forced to deal with lesbian, gay, bi-sexual or transgender characters chosen by other players." But this clearly is not about the children; it is about the fact that people from LGBT communities might play a game, may be able to reflect themselves in the game, and that it might be visible to other people – children or not.This is a familiar refrain: if "they" are not in media, if "they" are not publicly accepted, then maybe "they" will cease to be relevant. This fear particularly expresses itself in complaints to EA about anti-LGBT sentiments being removed from forums, to which the response has been that hate speech is simply not abided. While EA has made missteps, it seems firmly on the road of being inclusive, admitting to meeting with LGBT groups and defending the option to engage in a same-sex romance. FromDavid Gaider's responseconcerning the "privileged straight male gamer" to defendingJennifer Hepler(a writer for both the Dragon Age series and SW:TOR), the company has taken a stance.In a political landscape which has seen Dan Savage'sIt Gets Better campaigndraw attention from many larger entities (including from EA itself), the attacks EA's games are now facing are akin to the same old bullying tactics. The issue that is not often addressed about this particular type of content is that it is not only gay people who engage in same-sex romances, just as it is not only straight people who experience sex scenes between a man and woman. EA is not only giving options to those in the LGBT community, but to anyone who wants to experience a story that is not necessarily about themselves, just as most media have allowed for ages.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter@commentisfree
Spotify has unveiled its latest attempt to beef up its streaming music service's web presence beyond its desktop application.It's called theSpotify Play Button, and provides website owners with a way to stream songs, albums and playlists from Spotify without making users leave their sites.The button takes the form of a widget, created using a tool on Spotify's website, which can be embedded in blog posts and articles.Visitors clicking on the button will hear the music, although they'll still have to have Spotify's desktop app running in the background – if they're not a registered user, they'll be prompted to download the app and sign up.That's an important point: for now, the Spotify Play Button isn't a sign of Spotify shifting from its desktop client to more of a web service like US rival Rdio. Not yet, anyway: but it may well be on the agenda."Today we're just talking about this step that we're taking, but stay tuned," Sten Garmark, director of platform at Spotify, tells The Guardian. "This is the next stepping stone to becoming the OS of music. We absolutely need to be the de facto standard for music on the web."Garmark adds that people tapping on the new buttons from smartphones will be taken to the Spotify app, if it's installed on their devices.The Guardian is one of the sites using the button from today's launch, alongside the Huffington Post, Time Out Group, GQ UK, Vogue.com, MSN UK. Virgin Media, The Independent, NME, Rolling Stone, Popdust, Mashable, Wonderwall, The Fader, Pitchfork, ShareMyPlaylists and Noisey.com.Spotify is not the first streaming music service to launch this kind of widget: its UK rival we7 has been doing it for years. Some of the sites above had previously been using we7's widgets, but in recent times, the company has pivoted into a personalised radio service.How the Spotify Play Button will look on Time Out's websitePerhaps the biggest news from the announcement is the Play Button's integration with blogging service Tumblr. "It's right inside the blog publishing mechanism," says Garmark. "Any Tumblr user that goes to create a post can search for any Spotify track and put it in there."There is clear appeal for music bloggers, who have been at the sharp end of some of the music industry's dysfunctional ways in recent years – fielding takedown requests from a label's legal team for tracks posted at the explicit request of its marketing team, for example."We deeply value music as a form of creative expression. That Spotify now lets our users share from millions of their favourite songs is revolutionary, and as huge fans of the product we are absolutely overjoyed about this partnership," says Tumblr chief executive David Karp in a statement.The Spotify button will also be appearing on artists' social media profiles, courtesy of deals with Facebook-customisation firms FanRx and FanBridge.In that sense, the button will provide competition for SoundCloud, currently the widget of choice for artists streaming their own music for fans on their personal sites."A really interesting differentiator for us is that artists will be getting paid for every play," says Garmark. "We hope this is going to be a much more attractive music widget for artists."That said, SoundCloud providesmore analyticsto artists using its widgets, while also offering features such as track downloads, and not requiring a song to be available on a streaming service already. The Spotify Play Button isn't a SoundCloud killer just yet, in other words.One place you won't be seeing the Play Button is on brands' websites. After talking to Garmark, I wondered what's to stop a company like Coca-Cola or Unilever from using the button to provide music on their branded sites – something that would be bad news for artists and music rightsholders, who currently negotiate "sync" deals for this kind of usage.On following up with Spotify, I was told that brands are barred from using music on Spotify for endorsement as a condition of its licensing deals.The new button is for "independent editorial partners – bloggers, reviewers and editorial media" – with brands directed to Spotify's marketing and advertising sales team to talk about possible partnerships.So, if Coca-Cola wants to use a song or playlist for an online campaign, it still has to talk to the music rightsholders, rather than just popping a Spotify Play button on. It will be interesting to see how this policy is enforced, especially for sites that blur the boundaries between brands and editorial.
A selection of 19 new apps for you today:Official UEFA EURO 2012 app with OrangeUEFA and Orange have teamed up for an official Euro 2012 app providing results, alerts, news and video highlights – the latter will require an in-app purchase on iOS and Android, and aren't available in the BlackBerry version judging by its listing. The link above is for Android, buthere's BlackBerry,here's the iPhone versionandhere's the iPad version.Android / BlackBerry / iPhone / iPadMicrosoft Office for SymbianMicrosoft has ported its Office suite to Symbian, making it available for Nokia's 701, 700, 603, E7, X7, C7, Oro, and C6-01 smartphones. That means Word, PowerPoint and Excel, which will be initially made available through Nokia's Software Update tool, before hitting its Nokia Store in a few weeks' time.SymbianTitanic 100UK newspaper the Daily Mirror's latest standalone app focuses on the 100th anniversary of the Titanic disaster, mixing reports from the time with archive photographs and a chronology. It's an app spin-off from a printed supplement.iPadLords of AcidTechno band Lords of Acid are returning with a new album after a 12-year absence, and there's an app for it. Or, as they describe it: "Part game, part interactive comic book, part concept album". There's one mini-game per song on the album, in an aim to "return us to the days where the listener would stare at the magic of a vinyl album cover art, playing the songs and reading through liner notes over and over".iPhoneScanner ProImpressive document-scanning iPhone app Scanner Pro has been made universal, making it available on iPad for the first time. Its user interface has been overhauled, and it takes advantage of the new iPad's faster processor and better rear camera.iPadBloomberg Businessweek+Bloomberg's Businessweek+ app has signed up 100k subscribers since its launch in April 2011. Now it's been updated to be universal, meaning iPhone and iPod touch owners can use the app to download issues, watch videos and listen to audio in the background.iPhoneThe O2AEG Europe has launched new iOS apps for its London venue The O2, providing information on eating, drinking and clubbing around events, as well as offers, travel details and social sharing. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the iPad version.iPhone / iPadSid Meier's Pirates!Microsoft's latest featured Xbox Live game for Windows Phone is a classic: Sid Meier's Pirates!. As on iOS, it sees you sailing the high seas battling ships, duelling barons and chatting up governers' daughters.Windows PhoneTatlerCondé Nast's latest iOS Newsstand app is for its society magazine Tatler, charging £3.99 a month for a digitised version of the magazine.iPhone / iPadMagic: the Gathering ToolboxWizards of the Coast has launched an official Android and iPad app for its Magic: the Gathering card games. Not a standalone game itself, but rather "tools to support" the games in the real world, tracking player life, providing card search and deck builder features, as well as news from the game community. The link above is for Android buthere's the iPad version.Android / iPadEurope - The Michelin guide 2012This year's Michelin Guide to hotels and restaurants in Europe has an iPhone app, helping people find local eateries, share details on social networks, and rate them after visiting.iPhoneTime Out New York for iPadTime Out New York has a new iPad app to inspire readers "to do more in your city", providing suggestions for events, places and things to do, while learning from each user's preferences to tailor their recommendations.iPadAdvenaKorean publisher Gamevil's latest action RPG has a nifty "party play" feature that lets you switch between characters during combat. There's a huge world map to explore, as well as online player-versus-player battles.AndroidBoats - Byron BartonByron Barton's popular children's book has been turned into an app by Oceanhouse Media, with interactivity, animation and voice narration.iPhone / iPadMacworld Digital Magazine (US)The American edition of Apple-focused magazine Macworld now has an iPad digital edition, using Apple's Newsstand system.iPadThe LoraxPopular Dr. Seuss book The Lorax now has a new iOS game by Miniclip, which involves tapping objects to make marshmallows fall down so character Pip can eat them. Cut scenes from The Lorax film are included too. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the HD iPad version.iPhone / iPadHappy Ever AfterAuthor and journalist Joyce Lamb is in charge of USA Today's Happy Ever After section, reviewing romantic fiction. Now there's an official app for that, which she promises will "shower you with book reviews, author interviews and lots of other fun stuff to help you get to know your favorite authors just a little better".iPhone / iPadTCM Hollywood TourHere's an interesting brand extension: Turner Classic Movies has launched an iPhone app for tourists in Hollywood, providing details of more than 100 film locations and celebrity houses. Augmented reality technology is built in, as are "badge rewards" for visiting the locations.iPhoneKidblissiPhone app Kidbliss now has an Android version. Both offer a mobile diary for parents to track stories, photos and videos of their children, to be shared with family and close friends.Android
On this week's podcast with Aleks Krotoski, we look at Facebook's astounding acquisition of the 551-day-old Instagram photo app for a cool $1bn and ask if this means that we're in the middle of a new technology bubble?Also on the podcast, we look at the latest in the patent acquisition rush – this time a whopper of a haul by Microsoft from AOL – plus how good is the Nokia Lumina 900 and what Larry Page has to say to his shareholder one year after being in the CEO job.Joining Aleks in the studio is the Guardian's technology editor, Charles Arthur, alongside Dan Catt from the Guardian's software development team and the man behind the Guardian's Apps Blog, Stuart Dredge.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCyanogenMod supports one-click web-to-ROM Manager installs &gt;&gt; MobiputingROM Manager is an app that makes it easy for Android smartphone and tablet users to install custom ROMs on rooted devices with unlocked bootloaders. You can use the free version of the app to flash ClockworkMod Recovery on your device, reboot into recovery, install ROMs, or manage backups.This was flagged to us on Twitter as indicating that Cyanogenmod will "soon be mainstream". Our response: 99.9x% of Android users will never, ever mod their phones. They wouldn't even understand that extract.With Instagram, Facebook gets 'holy grail' of data - real-time advice &gt;&gt; SmartMoneySnap a digital photo, and the file typically includes embedded information on where and when it was taken. Facebook says Instagram will remain a standalone app separate from the social networking site, but the acquisition could make it easier for marketers, advertisers and the apps and companies one "likes" to access that kind of photo information, says Deborah Mitchell, executive director for the Center of Brand and Product Management at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.Could be worth anywhere from $50 to $5,000 per user, apparently, because it says where you are (if you turn on location capture) and what you're interested in. Value-enhancing for Facebook if so.Investors demand change at ailing UK tech companies &gt;&gt; FT.comIntriguing - and unusual - viewpoint on small UK tech businesses.Jon Moulton, the private equity investor who bought Clarity at the end of last year, says that every few years the largest of the small-cap technology investors become restless and start to shop around their portfolios to private equity.Private equity firms are in turn often keen to snap up these struggling businesses in the hope of being able to turn them around with radical management changes."A lot of UK technology companies are really stable, cash-generating businesses and are only in a loss because of poor managers," says Mr Moulton.The myth of the security-smug Mac user &gt;&gt; Securosis BlogRich Mogull:This is anecdotal, and I don't have survey numbers to back it up, but I've been probably the most prominent writer on Mac security for the past 5 years, and talk to a ton of people in person and over email. Nearly universally Mac users are and have been, concerned about security and malware.So where does this myth come from? I think it's 3 sources.Read the three sources before you comment.Bye-bye, Thrive tablets; hello, Toshiba Excite &gt;&gt; AllThingsDRemember the crazy sales of the Toshiba Thrive tablet? Anyway.Toshiba's new Excite line, which the Japanese electronics maker is officially announcing today, will include 7.7-inch, 10-inch and 13-inch models. All three Wi-Fi-only tablets are running Google's Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich operating system; they are aluminum-encased, have Gorilla Glass displays, come with a five-megapixel rear camera and a two-megapixel front-facing camera, and include new Nvidia TegraTM 3 processors.The Excite 7.7 also has an AMOLED display, a micro-USB port and a micro-SD card slot; while the Excite 10 has an LED-backlit display, micro-USB and micro-HDMI ports, and a full-sized SD card slot. At 1.32 pounds, the new 10-inch weighs just slightly less than Toshiba's last tablet.Great specifications. Gartner's prediction: iPads (no AMOLED, no built-in micro-SD or HDMI ports) will outsell Android tablets 2:1 in 2012.Poll: People like Google more than Apple or Facebook [with chart and full results] &gt;&gt; DWMediaAppears to be a statistically rigorous poll:In addition to very broad popularity, Google and Apple share vast exposure. Just 10% of Americans haven't formed a basic opinion of Google (rising to 29% of less tech-savvy seniors), and 14% have no opinion of Apple and Facebook alike. Twitter is less well known, with 31% unready to express an opinion of it, jumping to 51% of seniors.Basically, old geezers don't approve of tech. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)HTML5 Presentation - in HTML5 &gt;&gt; HTML5RocksOnly works fully in Google's Chrome browser. A useful reference if you're working on HMTL5.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Middle of the week already? Wow, those Bank Holidays sure are handy!
A company with no  revenues and barely any staff gets acquired for a billion dollars? It has to be a bubble, doesn't it? So has gone the reaction of many to the news that Facebook – the giant among social networks, with more than 850  million users worldwide –is buying  the mobile photo-sharing service  Instagram, which is just 551 days old, has 30 million users uploading 5m photos a day, and which just a week ago sold a 10% stake for $50m of venture capital funding from Sequoia Capital and Greylock Partners, effectively valuing it at $500m.Perhaps you're wondering: how does all that add up to a valuation of $1,000,000,000? At a time when the former photography giantKodak is struggling through the bankruptcy courts, how can a mobile app where you just take a photo and share it be worth anything at all?Much the same questions were asked in October 2006,when Google bought the video-sharing site YouTube for $1.6bn. That too had no noticeable revenue (rather the opposite, with persistent hassles over alleged copyright infringement) and a tiny staff. And the reaction ofYouTube users of six years ago, who saidthings like, "I like YouTube the way it is," sounds a lot like some Instagram users who deleted their photos from the service in protest at the weekend.Did the YouTube purchase mark a bubble – or the pricking of one? And does Instagram mark one too? Ray  Valdes, a vice-president of research at the market intelligence company Gartner, certainly sees some frothing going on. "The most telling indicator [of a bubble] is the $1bn-dollar  valuation," he told the Guardian.  "Although there are plenty of good  reasons why Facebook should want Instagram – it's visible, it's a great service, it's got loyal users, it has brand value, it's got massive engineering talents [among its 13 staff]." And for Facebook, which is hugely profitable – its 2011 revenues were $3.7bn and its net income (after taxes) $1bn – it was important to keep Instagram, which has been growing like a weed, out of the hands of a potential rival; specifically, thinks Valdes, Google, which has been trying to muscle into the social network space with Google+, launched last year and now boasting 100 million registered users.For Instagram's founders, two  Stanford graduates in their 20s who are now worth tens, if not hundreds, of millions of dollars, it has been a productive couple of years. In February 2011, they raised $7m in their first round of venture funding, led by Benchmark Capital and that purportedly included Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey and the Silicon Valley investor Chris Sacca. That reportedly valued Instagram at just over $20m.If this is a tech bubble – and Valdes points to all sorts of reasons why it is ("two- and three-person Silicon Valley startups getting venture capital funding within days or weeks, rather than months, for stuff that is more of a feature than an actual product") – then it is the third in the internet's history. The first began ramping up with the flotation of Netscape in August 1995; at least that had revenues ($20m in the quarter when it floated) though, radically, it wasn't yet profitable. That led to a mad flurry of startups, such as pets.com, which sold pet food online and aimed so high it had aSuperbowl advert in 2000– and shut down that November, having burned through all its cash. The top of that bubble was marked by the $164bn merger of AOL and Time Warner; the market collapse, in 2001, destroyed billions in share values.The YouTube acquisition was just a way-station on the road to the next blowup and blowout, which saw its top when in February 2008Microsoft made a $44.6bn (£22.4bn) bid for  Yahoo, which even then looked like a tired shell among the younger kids on the block such as Bebo, MySpace and some college network called "Facebook". Yahoo's management, however, were certain that the company would be worth more in the long term. A few months later, the credit crunch hit. Today, Yahoo is worth $18bn,it is sacking 2,000 staff, and the 2008 board has been wiped out.But given enough time, the technology sector will ramp up towards "irrational exuberance" (as Alan Greenspan, formerly in charge of the US Federal Reserve, called the rampant stock  market around the millennium). What's driving it is the money sloshing around venture capitalists, particularly on the US west coast, which can perform so much better than the sluggish stock market (just look at how Sequoia and Greylock doubled their money in a week). "It's the web fairytale that all startups dream of," said Melissa  Parrish, an analyst with Forrester Research, who added: "They took a simple behaviour – sharing pictures with friends – and made it a utility that people want."But there are two other factors at play, both of which make this bubble different from the previous ones. The first is the role that smartphones play. The previous two bubbles were built around sites and products that ran on desktop computers: the Netscape browser, AOL's monthly charge for a dialup internet connection, Yahoo's dominance as a destination for people checking news and email.Now, the smartphone is taking over. If you go toInstagram's siteon a computer, there's nothing to see: just links for you to download its apps for Apple's iPhone or smartphones with Google's Android software. The majority of Instagram's 30 million users have an iPhone; the Android version was only released a week ago, though it has already been downloaded about 5m times. With Instagram, you take a photo on your phone, apply a filter (if you want), and post it to one or any of Facebook, Twitter, Yahoo-owned photo-sharing site Flickr, the blogging sites Tumblr and Posterous and the location check-in site FourSquare. And that's it. As with Twitter (and unlike Facebook), there's an asymmetry in the network: you choose to follow people to see their photos, they can choose to follow or not follow you.Smartphones are the future of computing. Gartner reckons that by next year, smartphones will overtake PCs as the most common device for accessing the web, at about 1.82bn v 1.78bn.The second element, which is tied to the first, is the rising importance of  the "social" element of our use of  computers and products. At Twitter, the idea is baked into its mission  statement, devised by chief executive Dick Costolo: "To instantly connect people everywhere to what's most  important to them."Phones are inherently social: most people get them primarily to speak to friends and family, and secondarily (but importantly too) for work. Social networks such as Twitter and, of course, Facebook, are like nothing we've seen before. There have been many efforts to make the idea stick  (Yahoo had a go with Flickr and the Delicious bookmarking site) but those have been desktop-based.Facebook rules the social world right now; but that might be a tenuous hold, and Mark Zuckerberg knows it. The risk for Facebook is that it was born on the desktop, but to take advantage of the coming world it has to shift over to  mobile –a fact that its flotation prospectus admits; it barely makes any money from mobile, despite having huge numbers of people who only access it that way. Pulling in Instagram is a way for Facebook to pull itself into the social future that's developing around us. It's quite likely that it hasn't gained a single extra user; but they'll all be more tightly tied to the biggest network. As Zuckerberg put it on his own page,writing about the purchase: "This is an important milestone for Facebook because it's the first time we've ever acquired a product and company with so many users. We don't plan on doing many more of these, if any at all."But with the flotation expected to value the site at $100bn, spending 1% in cash and shares is a clever way to shape its future. "Facebook after this IPO is going to be in a position to be predatory. They can make sure no one steps in their way and buy anyone who gets in their way," said Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter, who follows social media. Buying Instagram, he added, not only eliminates a rival but gives Facebook the technology "that  is gaining crazy traction".There's another rival that this  acquisition shuts out: Google. It was  also born on the desktop, and has been fighting to make the mobile phone its domain – something it has largely  succeeded with through its Android software, which now runs about half of the smartphones sold worldwide.But social remains just slightly beyond its grasp. Since the launch of Google+ last year, the company best known for its search engine has been rushing pell-mell to use its "social"  element as a glue across its products; Larry Page, Google's chief executive,wrote last weekthat "Google+ makes sharing super easy by creating a  social layer across all our products so users connect with the people who matter to them."Or so he hopes. Thus far, Google+ has been a big hit with photographers (who get photos uploaded directly from their Android phones if they're signed up) but has shown little other traction. Buying Instagram – which you'll notice doesn't offer a Google+ sharing option – could have given Google a way to draw in those users. Now that door has been closed. Part of the froth in tech companies' valuations has come recently from Facebook and Google vying to buy; there are suggestions that it tried to get Instagram, though that hasn't been confirmed.But still the question comes: is it a bubble? And when is it going to pop? Going by the $1bn price tag, Facebook is paying about $33 for each Instagram user. That's a fraction of the $118 that Facebook investors will be paying per Facebook user if the company gets its expected $100bn valuation after going public. By that reckoning, Pachter said, $1bn "doesn't sound crazy". Then again, if all the users were already on Facebook, it's just bought them again. Surely that's bubble thinking.The key point though is that even if we accept that we're in a technology bubble, where valuations don't bear any relation to what companies will actually earn in their lifetimes (as they're supposed to), this won't necessarily be the top of it. "For it really to be the top, there has to be widespread frenzy where there are no doubters," says Valdes (echoing the famous words of Joe Kennedy in 1928 ahead of the Crash: "You know it is time to sell when the shoe-shine boy tries to give you stock tips.") "But there are plenty of doubters right now," says Valdes. "When there's unanimity of opinion, that's when the tipping point has been reached. But we have a very sobering global economic climate outside the internet and mobile world."Against that, it's hard to imagine how a service that just lets you take a photo of your breakfast, colour it blue and share it could possibly be worth anything. Perhaps Instagram isn't  really worth anything: if the electricity goes off, it will simply cease to exist, except as some bits on a hard drive somewhere. But until then, enjoy the bubble while it lasts.
On October 9 2006 Chad Hurley, 29, and Steven Chen, 27, sold a video-sharing website called YouTube to Google for $1.65bn. At the time there was a lot of guffawing about the profitless startup that allowed people to share videos of cats playing pianos and kids coming off skateboards. Who's laughing now? Google mainly.But the history of mergers and acquisitions is not a happy one – not least in Silicon Valley. Yahoo's purchase of once super-hot photo site Flickr or the web-sharing service Delicious have both fallen flat.NewsCorp's attempt to take on Facebook by buying MySpace famously failed. Even Google has a pile of startups it has brushed under the carpet. The big question now is whether Instagram is a cut-price YouTube or a $1bn Flickr.YouTube got Google into video – then the hottest new area on the web.Instagram gives Facebook the hottest app in mobile, now the cutting edge of tech. Thirty million people now own Instagram's app.That's a lot of eyeballs for advertisers – if Facebook can make those people worth something without turning them off.Alan Patrick, co-founder of technology consultancy Broadsight, is unconvinced: "It is stupid money, but I suspect the reason they paid it is that Facebook is extremely desperate to get a top scoring IPO story. Mobile is probably a big line in their future revenue growth pitch, pictures are a big part of that I'd bet, and their own mobile story was apparently failing, so that growth line was becoming less believable. 'Sort out something quick,' was the watchword I'd bet, and this was it."
California has been famous since the gold rush for creating fortunes overnight. The Golden State was a dream factory for get-rich-quick schemes from pioneers with pickaxes to beautiful people aiming to be Hollywood stars. But only in Silicon Valley can a couple of 20-somethings turn less than two years of work into a $1bn (£630m) fortune.Kevin Systrom, 28, joined the long line of technocrats turned plutocrats on Mondaywhen he sold Instagram, a profitless photo sharing app that's less than two years old, for $1bn. He sold it to that other wunderkind, Mark Zuckerberg, 27, the Facebook founder whose social network is now worth an estimated $100bn.Systrom, a former Google employee, is understood to own about 40% of Instagram, which is now worth $400m. His co-founder Mike Krieger, 25, is believed to have about 10%, worth $100m. The rest will be shared with investors and the company's other employees – all 11 of them. Even by Silicon Valley standards, it's a remarkable haul for a company that's been around for less than two years.Instagram wasn't the first, or the only, mobile app offering people a way to share their photos on Twitter, Facebook, Flickr. Nor was its use of filters to add visual effects to those shots a new idea. But what made it stand out was its success.Last week Instagram raised $50m from venture capital firms, valuing Systrom and Krieger's baby at $500m. Zuckerberg had reportedly already approached Systrom and asked to buy the firm but after the funding he came back with an offer that couldn't be refused: double the price.Instagram might not make a cent but it is the hottest mobile app in the world and Facebook is preparing for the biggest IPO in tech history.To date people have questioned Facebook's mobile strategy. Zuckerberg started his social network in the days when PCs and browsers ruled the internet. Even 20-somethings can look a bit dated in these fast moving days. And $1bn is a small price to pay for new school cool, if you are worth $100bn.Systrom, a Stanford University graduate like so many Silicon Valley multimillionaires, grew up in Boston but was an early witness to the dotcom boom. His mother, Diane Systrom, worked at Monster.com during the first internet era and is now an executive at Zipcar, the online car rental business.The history of the billion-dollar deal goes back to his university days where he was studying for an engineering degree. Systrom, a big photography fan, started looking at ways to share photos online. His interest subsided as he looked for a job, ending up at Google, where he spent two years in product development and corporate development.Systrom's next job was at Nextstop, a trip-recommendation site that Facebook bought for a rather measly $2.5m. Systrom then started Burbn, named after his favourite liquor, a company that focused on the super-hot area of mobile but whose basket of services seemed to lack any clear identity. It had photos but also check-in capabilities, like FourSquare, and other apps.Along came Mike Krieger, another Stanford graduate, and the two started talking about narrowing their focus.On the Q&amp;A site Quora, Systrom explained the genesis of Instagram: "We decided that if we were going to build a company, we wanted to focus on being really good at one thing."We saw mobile photos as an awesome opportunity to try out some new ideas. We spent one week prototyping a version that focused solely on photos. It was pretty awful. So we went back to … Burbn. We actually got an entire version of Burbn done as an iPhone app, but it felt cluttered, and overrun with features."It was really difficult to decide to start from scratch, but we went out on a limb, and basically cut everything in the Burbn app except for its photo, comment, and like capabilities. What remained was Instagram. (We renamed because we felt it better captured what you were doing – an instant telegram of sorts. It also sounded camera-y)."The rest is Silicon Valley history. Launched in October 2010, Instagram was an instant hit. Over 30m people have downloaded the app now. When the firm launched an Android version earlier this month, it attracted 1m downloads in 12 hours. People love sharing their photos online and making them look like their Dad took them in 1980 with a camera he borrowed from his dad.And the app they want to do it with is Instagram.• This article was amended on 11 April 2012. Mike Krieger's stake in the company is believed to be worth $100m, not $10m.
Dante is back – and now we have some rather scintillating new imagery. As revealed at the 2010 Tokyo Game Show, the goth rock demon slayer is to be reborn after four varyingly successful adventures. In a collaboration between UK studio Ninja Theory and Capcom's R&amp;D division, DmC: Devil May Cry takes us back to the roots of the series, exploring the early years of the smart-jiving protagonist.Here's the first trailer from the forthcoming PS3 and Xbox title. It shows Dante sparring demonic foes in an abandoned fun fair, while a rightwing religious news channel calls for his execution. The whole thing looks a lot more... American, with a younger, prettier lead and lots more Hollywood bad boy dialogue. Once again, the combat system combines pistols and swords and there look to be some rather histrionic juggle combos allowing you to go totally Fruit Ninja on falling enemies.Although Cambridge-based Ninja Theory (Heavenly Sword, Enslaved) is taking on most of the development duties, the project is being overseen by Hedeaki Itsuno who worked on all four of the previous instalments, so we can expect a certain amount of continuity – though we're hoping the Ninja Theory team get to put plenty of their own spin on things; especially with the depth of the third-person combat mechanic.Take a look, anyway, and let us know what you think. The release date is TBA, but we can expect to find out more at this summer's E3.
So Facebook is buying Instagram for $1,000,000,000 (in a mixture of cash and shares) even though Instagram's revenues don't add up to $0,000,000,1. Why? Because, said Mark Zuckerberg, he wants to "offer the best experiences for sharing beautiful mobile photos with people based on your interests."In other words, it's all about the social aspect – holding friends close and, most importantly, making sure that Facebook's gravitational attraction for all things social becomes even greater.Nowadays, buying social networks – in whatever form – has become the rationale for big-money purchases.But how well has that worked out in the past? Let's look back at some of the previous – and current – acquisitions of social startups to see whether there are any clues.•Yahoobought the photo-sharing service Flickrfor a rumoured $35m in March 2005.It grew quickly and became a reference point for online photography due to its willingness to let photos be shared. But amid Yahoo's woes, and the growth of Myspace and then Facebook, it has withered in importance. Rumours suggest Yahoo might sell it. Unlike many Yahoo properties, it is profitable.•Google bought Dodgeball, a fledgling "location check-in" service, where you could say where you were if you could get online, in May 2005."We don't have any announced plans for it," Google said at the time. It closed it down, though it did set up its own "Google Latitude" tracking/check-in service. The founder of Dodgeball, Dennis Crowley, left and in 2009 set up FourSquare – another location check-in service which quickly became bigger than Google Latitude.•News Corporation bought Myspace for $580m in July 2005.Heralded as a brilliant, insightful move at the time (Facebook was only a year old and hadn't broken out beyond a few US universities), the lack of investment and inconsistent application of management doomed it when Mark Zuckerberg's laser-like focus came into play. In June 2008 Facebook passed Myspace for viewings worldwide; it never looked back. News Corp sold Myspace in July 2011 to a private equity company (and Justin Timberlake) at a huge loss.•Yahoo bought the social bookmarking service Delicious for a rumoured $20m in December 2005.The idea seemed to be to knit the sites people had bookmarked and tagged into search results, using human insight to tag the web. It never gained critical mass, and was sold off in late 2010 to the founders of YouTube – who had since exited Google.•Google bought YouTube for $1.6bn in November 2006.Rather like Instagram today, the nascent video-sharing service had zero revenue but was already bigger than Google's own Google Video; the latter was killed off. YouTube was in the right place at the right time: broadband had just come into play and video could work on desktop PCs. YouTube now sports lots of ads – though Google has never revealed whether it is profitable in its own right. It remains the biggest video-sharing site online by a gigantic margin.•AOL bought British teen social network Bebo for $850m, the last of AOL's giant buyups, in March 2008.For a while it looked like a smart move – but Facebook rose like the sun, and as Bebo's users grew older they shifted allegiance. Bebo was sold for just $10m in July 2010 to a private equity company.•Facebook bought Friendfeed, which had looked like a rival to Twitter, for $50m in August 2009.Some of the ideas of the site were wrapped into the Facebook Timeline, but essentially the purchase was done to get the developer talent inside Zuckerberg's stable.•Finnish mobile phone company Nokia bought Dopplr, a social travel network of sorts, for an estimated $20m in December 2009.Itwithered on the vine: Nokia was going through an upheaval sparked by Apple's iPhone and Google's Android, and any social strategy was lost as it tried to regain control of its existence.•Microsoft bought the internet phone service Skype for $8.5bn in May 2011.Skype is still going strong, but it's hard to see how Microsoft is ever going to earn its money back, unless it carries on for about another 100 years. Equally, Skype is a useful protection against all sorts of disruption – and the larger it gets, the harder it is for rivals to ignore. Previously, Skype had been owned by eBay, which had thought people would use it to chat about auction items; they didn't.•Facebook bought location service Gowalla for $3m in shares, leaving the bigger "check-in" player, FourSquare, out in the cold, in December 2011.Facebook already had its Facebook Places check-in service, but wanted the Gowalla team. The Gowalla app has been discontinued.•Twitter bought the simple blogging site Posterous – the smaller rival to Tumblr – for an undisclosed amount in March.The two will be kept separate, Twitter says. The clear benefit is that it gives Twitter more places to sell adverts.•Social games company Zynga (best known for Farmville) bought social game company OMGPOP, with itsDraw Something appfor $200m, in March.The result? Within days, the number of people playing Draw Something began to drop off precipitously. Everything now hinges on whether OMGPOP can draw something new and profitable out of its hat.•Facebook bought photo-sharing service Instagram for $1bn – roughly $33 per user – this week.When you consider that it will be able to get location, sharing, time and camera data for those people (and more) into the future, it's probably not a bad bet. It certainly keeps Google+, which has been growing in popularity with photographers, at bay; Instagram was initially available only for the iPhone but is now on Android phones too.The overall pattern isn't clear – except that Yahoo and Nokia haven't managed to make the best of their acquisitions, while for Facebook and Twitter it may be too early to tell.
Who'll be the next in line for a buyout, now that Facebook has gobbled up Instagram? We pick the obvious candidates.Path, the "life-sharing" app(This got dinged in the tech press for uploading users' contacts to its servers without explicit permission.)Who might buy it?GoogleWhy?To mix in with its Google+ social network and as part of itsGoogle Glassproject.Pinterest, the picture-and-thoughts pinboard social networkWho might buy it?Google; FacebookWhy?Because it's highly social, and is attracting huge attention, and people spend time on it.Spotify, the "universal jukebox" music serviceWho might buy it?Facebook; GoogleWhy?Music could be the next big thing in social; Spotify already has a tieup with Facebook, and that has helped it grow strongly in the US ahead of rival music services. The problem though is that per-track payments limit profitability. But tying people into a service that's exclusively tied into your social network is a great way to knit them into your world.Tumblr, the simple blogging serviceWho might buy it?GoogleWhy?AfterTwitter bought Posterous, a rival simple blogging service, the larger (and presumably more expensive) Tumblr looks ripe for acquisition. Google could monetise it easily with adverts (just as it does with its Blogger service) while catching all the people now using it; or even pull them into Google+.StumbleUpon, the site-sharing serviceWho might buy it?Google; Facebook; Twitter; AppleWhy?Apple is weak on the social side; itsPing music social service, launched in September 2010, is invisible on the wider web. StumbleUpon doesn't have any copyright issues (unlike Pinterest) and drives a lot of traffic to sites. It's one of the largest, yet least remarked-on, social networks.Thisismyjam, a social music sharing service(Your friends pick the music - just one track each day. Presently integrates with Facebook and Twitter.)Who might buy it?Google; Facebook; Twitter; Apple?Why?Again, on the premise that music is the next social network, it's a great way to glue people into your existing network. If you can sell music too, then you get a little extra money.Square, a smartphone add-on that lets businesses accept card payments(Founders include Twitter's Jack Dorsey.)Who might buy it?Paypal; Google; AppleWhy?It removes one step in the process of payment, and lets users make payments directly from their phones. For any of those potential buyers, it would give them a leg up into the next frontier of payments – via mobile.The odd exception here is that Microsoft doesn't figure as an obvious buyer for any of these startups – though that might be because it hasn't made its ambitions in social fields very clear. (Apple is similarly not a big player – yet.)Which potential "social tech" companies have we missed that are yet to be bought up? Which buyers have we left out which have a good reason to acquire them? Let us know below.
In my job I guess it's unsurprising that I keep hearing things about photography. "Facts" like half of all pictures ever taken were taken in the past 12 months. Could that be true? It might be if some people are taking pictures of every meal they eat. A colleague talking to a fellow guest at a wedding, who was sporting the brand new Canon 5Dmk3 costing £3,000 — was he a pro photographer? Oh no, he just wanted the best for his photographs. $1bn for Instagram.Yes – $1bn for a smartphone app that makes your snaps look like retro Polaroids and sends them to your friends. It probably does a lot more than that, but to misquote Mark Knopfler that sounds a whole lot of money, if not exactly for nothing, really not that much.Now I know I shouldn't admit this, but I do like some of these toning apps. Some of the effects are quite beautiful and the results can encourage the budding photographer. They're harmless and probably have quite a short shelf life.In the end it really is the actual image under the electronic processing that counts. Most of the time the filters are covering the shortcomings of the original photograph and the person behind it. They will soon become a visual cliche and need continual updating to stay fresh.The $1bn is buying Facebook another chunk of the world's visual memory. Facebook is making sure all those images don't end up on Flickr or in some other storage cloud.But why the boom in making still images? Why are people still taking pictures and not shooting video?Well have you tried video? It looks easy enough until you try editing it. If it's bad it's not just a bit of a joke it's a boring joke. With a still photograph processed through a toning app one can produce a finished and pleasing piece of work. And don't underestimate the growth of photography as a note-taking medium, not just for documenting family life, but as a useful tool for all sorts of professionals from doctors to plumbers to record and communicate. All those 1,000 words taken care of by the click of a shutter.•Roger Tooth is head of photography for the Guardian
A selection of 30 new apps for you today:Minds of Modern MathematicsOnce a fierce rival for Apple, IBM has now launched its first app for iOS. It's an app recreation of the 50-foot wall installation from a 1961 exhibition called Mathematica, which was sponsored by IBM. The idea: explore the history of maths, going back 1,000 years with ideas, artifacts and mathematician biographies.iPadThe Happy FaceStruggling with naughty children when on an Easter holiday outing? The Happy Face may help. It's an intuitive rewards app where you move your kids' photos to a happy or sad face, depending on their behaviour. It's the work of UK firm Kent Lyons, with the eight year-old son of its co-founder dreaming up the idea.iPhoneSkylanders Cloud PatrolActivision has taken its innovative Skylanders game franchise to iOS, with an arcade shooter that sees players battering trolls, using magic item boosts and importing their favourite Skylander toy characters, just as they do on console.iPhone / iPadToca Kitchen MonstersToca Boca's excellent kid-cooking app Toca Kitchen gets a monstrous free version, with two virtual monsters to feed with sliced, diced and cooked food from a digital kitchen.iPhone / iPadAbout.meAbout.me started as a web service to pull in information from all your sites and social networking profiles to a one-page biography. Now the idea has gone mobile, including location features to find other users nearby.iPhoneAbsolute Radio ExtraThere's a new Android app in town from UK radio group Absolute Radio, offering live streams, podcast archives and other content. It's joined on Google Play by two other new apps too:Absolute Radio 70sandAbsolute Radio 60s.AndroidDigitalRadioTalking of radio, Philips has launched a new iOS app designed to be used when docking an iPhone or iPad with its latest connected hi-fi. That means access to radio stations and your own music collection, as well as related images for the stations and an FM radio mode.iPhone / iPadScramble With FriendsZynga's Boggle-alike social game Scramble With Friends was already on Android as a free and ad-funded version, but now there's a paid edition too that removes the ads, and lets players earn tokens twice as fast – a model that matches what's available on iOS.AndroidBooking.com TonightTravel site Booking.com has a new standalone app for last-minute deals on hotels, promising cheap savers from more than 200,000 hotels in 30,000 locations around the world.iPhoneEpic Astro StoryJapanese mobile games publisher Kairosoft has a new simulation game, this time set in Space. The idea: build a thriving colony while sending an "away team" off to conquer new planets. Star Trek references abound, and it's as addictive as the company's previous titles.iPhoneFreekick BattleIf Flick Kick Football and Flick Soccer haven't met your need for casual dead-ball action on iOS, Korean publisher Gamevil's new game may be worth a look. In its favour: 3D graphics and bags of personalisation.iPhone / iPadBBC Wildlife MagazineMagazine publisher Immediate Media has been on a tear of late making iPad apps for its BBC brands. BBC Wildlife is one of the latest, offering features and photography of local fauna through Apple's iOS Newsstand.iPadCountryfile Magazine/Gardener's World MagazineI told you they'd been on a tear of late. Here's two more magazine-apps based on much-loved Beeb brands, both using the Newsstand.iPadTMZ for iPadOnly available in the US for now, this is the official iPad app for celebrity gossip site TMZ, providing a popular alternative to Mail Online for all your Kim Kardashian on-the-beach news.iPadGrateful Dead - Europe '72: Rock ProdigyHere's an iOS app to teach guitarists to play a selection of Grateful Dead live tracks from 1972, with the app providing feedback on what you play on your actual instrument in real-time. Although the idea of boiling Grateful Dead live tracks down into what are correct and incorrect notes and chords seems slightly... un-freeform.iPhone / iPadIGN Guide for SkyrimSkyrim (probably) isn't coming to iPad any time soon, but there are a number of companion apps for the game popping up on iOS. This one comes from gaming website IGN, and promises interactive maps, walkthroughs and – in a future update – a full skill tree planner and iPhone version.iPadFat FingersWebsite Fat Fingers helps people find eBay listings with typos in the titles – which may thus not be spotted by regular users, and yield bargains. Now there's a Windows Phone app for it to search, save searches and pin them to the homescreen.Windows PhoneGo Go XyloVirtual xylophones are ten-a-penny on the App Store, but this is the only one to let children play along with a couple of American Idol finalists and a bloke out of Grand Funk Railroad. Songs to play along to include Baa Baa Black Sheep, Old MacDonald and The Blue Danube Waltz, with more available to download.iPhone / iPadWheelmateWheelmate is a useful app for wheelchair users, guiding them to the nearest wheelchair-accessible toilets and parking spaces, with the ability to add in their own finds, and rate / comment on existing entries.iPhoneMagic Tree by Com2uSMagic Tree wants to reinvigorate the social farming genre with beefier 3D visuals and the ability to mix and match seeds to grow, yes, magic trees. It looks very nice indeed.iPhone / iPadTower Defense: Lost EarthHere's another graphically impressive Com2uS game, this time for Android following an earlier iOS debut. It's a tower defence game with more than 40 campaign maps to play through.AndroidChad Smith Drum AppHere's where apps have got to in 2012: even the drummer in the Red Hot Chili Peppers has his own iPhone app. Chad promises videos and drum clinics as well as news and a "Drummer GPS" feature to find nearby tub-thumpers.iPhoneHow To RapIf you're more into rhymes than drums, iPad app How To Rap may be just the thing. It promises tips and tutorials on rhyme schemes, patterns, hooks and songwriting techniques, wrapped into a proper educational course structure with session plans and calendar dates.iPadRusko: Mobile BackstageDubstep producer Rusko has launched his own app too, working with Finnish startup Mobile Backstage on an app that aims to get fans sharing videos, audio, photos and comments as well as the star himself.iPhoneFluff Friends RescueSocial mobile games publisher SGN brings its latest Fluff Friends title to Android, getting players to design and build their pet rescue shelter. It's the result of a partnership Humane Society of the United States, for additional save-the-animals warm glow.AndroidStylebook Men: Closet Organizer &amp; AssistantThere are quite a few apps looking to get women photographing their clothes and uploading them to an app-based closet. Less so for men. That's the idea behind this new Stylebook app though: "Import your actual clothes, create magazine-style outfits, plan what to wear and track your style inspirations."iPhoneCytusCytus is one of the new breed of music-rhythm games focused on touchscreens rather than plastic instruments. It's now made the leap to Android, with more than 16 songs to tap along to, and nifty hand-drawn artwork.AndroidBumping BearsThe latest cutesy freemium game out for iOS is LoadComplete's Bumping Bears, which sees you raising a litter of bears who eat virtual donuts – all funded by in-app purchases, naturally.iPhone / iPadAugmentron ARDeveloper Fuzzy Logic's new Android app looks like a pitch to make an augmented reality app for Transformers toys. It's an AR game that "takes an imaginary boxed toy on a shelf, and transforms it into a spectacular and captivating, interactive parallel world".Android
A quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow Apple, Microsoft &amp; Wikipedia fight Google's "Best-Loved Service" &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebThat service being Google Maps (Larry Page described it thus in his letter to shareholders last week):If enough location-based services start intermingling with OpenStreetMap, there will be a significant divide between those and the ones built on Google's proprietary service - and Microsoft and Bing will be on the open side. But Apple will be the most interesting company to watch here. Its ultimate decision about open versus proprietary map data will have big ripple effects for app developers.Microsoft is a patron of OpenStreetMap, which remains an independent foundation.New Wikipedia app for iOS (and an update for our Android App) &gt;&gt; Wikimedia blogCutting to the interesting bit of this mobile application:Previous versions of our application used Google Maps for the nearby view. This has now been replaced with OpenStreetMap - an open and free source of Map Data that has been referred to as 'Wikipedia for Maps.' This closely aligns with our goal of making knowledge available in a free and open manner to everyone. This also means we no longer have to use proprietary Google APIs in our code, which helps it run on the millions of cheap Android handsets that are purely open source and do not have the proprietary Google applications.Wikipedia on the desktop already appears not to use Google Maps.Education in Peru: Error message &gt;&gt; The EconomistOne Laptop Per Child arrived in Peru. How well did it fare?Anevaluationof the laptop programme by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) found that the children receiving the computers did not show any improvement in maths or reading. Nor did it find evidence that access to a laptop increased motivation, or time devoted to homework or reading. The report applauded the government for providing much-needed hardware: less than a quarter of Peruvian households had a computer in 2010. But it now needs to improve teacher-training and the curriculum, said Julian Cristia of the IDB. Above all, the classroom environment needs to change.The Mystery of the Flying Laptop &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comMatt Richtel tries to find out why the US's TSA insists on laptops being scanned separately but not tablets:Could it be because laptops, unlike tablet computers, have an easily removable battery compartment and hard drive that could be used to hide homemade bombs? But some netbooks and ultrabooks have similar compartments, and they don't require separate screening. Strike two.Perhaps, I thought, it's because the circuitry of a laptop can be replaced with a device to send an electromagnetic signal to jam an airplane's controls at takeoff or landing. But, as I soon learned, the same circuitry could be embedded just as easily in phones, watches or game players, all of which stay in the bag.I was starting to feel like a Monty Python character, riding a pretend horse, clomping my coconut halves together to simulate the sound of horse hooves. A comical quest for a mythical grail.Inside Apple HQ &gt;&gt; Apple GazetteWe haven't verified that these apparent insider snaps are genuine, but they appear authentic.Google Moves In on Hollywood's Night in Washington &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comOh to be fly on the wall at that banquet.Ex-Facebook insiders building next wave of Silicon Valley firms &gt;&gt; LA TimesMore an interesting take on innovation in Silicon Valley than the ventures of ex-Facebookers.Microsoft's purchase of AOL patents may be about a Google map war &gt;&gt; ZDNetLet the fun and games begin: "Now it has Mapquest intellectual property in the fold, it will have the tools to either nudge out Google Maps or at the very least sue."AOL Sells 800 Patents For $1.1 Billion To Microsoft &gt;&gt; TechCrunchIt's a bank holiday spending spree in Silicon Valley. Microsoft as paid just over $1bn for a war chest of patents from AOL. Will this put the jitters up its foes?Did Facebook panic? &gt;&gt; CNN FortuneCNN Money's Dan Primack charts the days between Instagrams last funding round - valuing the company at $500m - and the offer from Facebook, valuing the company at $1bn. What happened? A working theory is that Facebook panicked.Facebook buys Instagram for $1bn: full statement by Mark Zuckerberg &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukZuckerberg: "This is an important milestone for Facebook because it's the first time we've ever acquired a product and company with so many users. We don't plan on doing many more of these, if any at all." Until Google sniffs around Draw Something, at least...Why did Facebook buy Instagram for a whopping $1bn? &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukAll the reaction you could ever wish for - and more – here. Contrast the Storified comments with those below the line.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Well, how was your Easter break? Did you manage to fit in any gaming between the Church services and egg scoffing?
With the news that Facebook had decided to acquire Instagram for the princely sum of $1bn, we wondered what difference the photo sharing app would have made to a selection of well-known images. After all, Instagram is the app that has transformed the photographs of a generation of amateurs, ironing out bad exposure and glossing over poor focusing. Would it not do the same for the professionals?Answer: probably not.BromancegramGeorge Bush and Tony Blair at Camp David in 2001, Instagrammed. Original photograph: Mario Tama/EPAHas the special relationship ever looked more special? George Bush and Tony Blair looked particularly at ease in each other's company during a walkabout at Camp David in February 2001. With the help of Instagram's Toaster filter, warmth flows from this photo.InauguramBarack Obama at his inauguration in 2008, Instagrammed. Original photograph: Timothy A Clary/AFP/Getty ImagesBarack Obama is sworn in as US president in January 2009. The presence of a hipster with an iPhone and the Instagram app would surely have only added to the gravitas.WeddingramThe Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and other young royals, seen through an Instagram filter. Original photograph: Clarence HouseNo modern wedding is complete without a grainy image loaded through Instagram's Lo-fi filter. With the click of roughly five buttons, Wills and Kate go from stuffy monarchs to über-cool scenesters.YeltsigramFormer Russian president Boris Yeltsin dancing at a rock concert, as seen by Instagram. Original photograph: Alexander Zemlianichenko/APThe gregarious first president of the Russian federation was known for his love of the good life, although by the time he left office he was seen as something of an embarrassment among Russians. Yeltsin did himself no favours withan infamous dancing performanceduring his presidency – but perhaps if his moves had been seen through Instagram, they would have been better appreciated.LisagramThe Mona Lisa smile, Instagrammed. Original image: Leonardo da VinciWhile Leonardo da Vinci turns in his grave, behold the Mona Lisa – as the artist never intended. The Lo-fi gives the subject a little more colour in her cheeks, as well as a snazzy border and a weird green line behind her head. Goodbye, art!
Facebook has acquired photo-sharing app Instagram, a two-year-old start-up, for $1 billion in cash and shares. The deal wasannounced by Mark Zuckerberg on Facebook– but Instagram users immediately took to social networks to denounce the deal. For many, Facebook is already an internet hate-figure – and the prospect of an internet behemoth swallowing up a popular start-up seems to have caused a pretty strong backlash.AtBreakingViews, Robert Cyran thought the acquisition adefensive move by Facebook, keen to retain the "whip hand" in mobile photo-sharing. But he worried about the implications:The precedent is worrisome, though, if it means every time a startup encroaches on one of Facebook's presumed strengths it will need to take out its pocketbook to defend its turf. That's hardly a robust justification for a lofty valuation.AtThe Verge, Chris Ziegler raged at Instagram's basic premise, givingbad photographers a false sense of "artisanship".But you're not an artist. If you were an artist, you wouldn't be using Instagram in the first place. You certainly wouldn't be using a filter as a crutch. At the end of the day, that's what Instagram filters are: a crutch, a misguided replacement for a properly composed shot and a decent sensor.Here are more responses to the sale, and we're collecting more of your reactions. Tweet us @GuardianUS, or share your thoughts in the comments below.Guardian commentatorCharlie Brookermused on the ubiquitous nature of Facebook.At this rate Facebook's going to end up owning the rights to all actual human faces.&mdash; Charlie Brooker (@charltonbrooker)April 9, 2012MarketerMonica van Leerhad a personal response:I had a higher opinion of you Instagram. But now...http://bit.ly/IjrhVR&mdash; Monica Van Leer (@MonicaVanLeer)April 9, 2012Gabriel Snyder, editor of The Atlantic Wire, compared it unfavorably to Microsoft's decision to buy AOL patents.If I had $1 billion to spend, I think I'd actually prefer patents to a social network.&mdash; Gabriel Snyder (@gabrielsnyder)April 9, 2012Harry McCrackenof Time magazine drew lessons from history:Trying to remember the last time that a large Silicon Valley company buying a small Silicon Valley company wasn't bad news.&mdash; Harry McCracken (@harrymccracken)April 9, 2012Stockholm media plannerHelen Alfvegrensuggested Facbeook had overpaid for a ephemeral product:@instagramHey guys, thank you for such an amazing app! Have you heard from Gowalla lately?&mdash; Helen Alfvegren (@rockspindeln)April 9, 2012... as didAl ShawofProPublica.In conclusion, Gowalla.&mdash; Al Shaw (@A_L)April 9, 2012Chris Ziegler, an editor atThe Vergein Chicago, wondered whether Instagram's technology was all that innovative anyway.mark zuckerberg entering instagram HQ and discovering hundreds of college interns setting photos on window ledges to age in the sun.&mdash; Chris Ziegler (@zpower)April 9, 2012Guardian reader@DaisyFriscotweeted us with this:Dear Zuck: You can buy groovy apps, but you can't buy fickle app users. Congrats to Instagram on cashing in big stylee. (@GuardianUS)&mdash; Ange (to my friends) (@DaisyFrisco)April 9, 2012AndAnt de Rosaof Reuters felt sorry for a predecessor.How sad do you think the Hipstagram founders are today?&mdash; Anthony De Rosa (@AntDeRosa)April 9, 2012... by which, he meant...(sorry, I meant Hipstamatic)&mdash; Anthony De Rosa (@AntDeRosa)April 9, 2012
A passionate user of Instagram could have been forgiven for groaning at news of the photo-sharing startup beingbought by Facebookfor a reported $1bn.The social network doesn't tend to keep its acquisitions going as independent entities, as past users of FriendFeed, Drop.io and Beluga can testify. Will Instagram be any different? Both sides say it will."We're committed to building and growing Instagram independently," wrote Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg in hisblog post announcing the acquisition, citing the popularity of Instagram's app and brand around the world."We think the fact that Instagram is connected to other services beyond Facebook is an important part of the experience. We plan on keeping features like the ability to post to other social networks, the ability to not share your Instagrams on Facebook if you want, and the ability to have followers and follow people separately from your friends on Facebook."Instagram chief executive Kevin Systrom is equally forthright inhis own blog post. "It's important to be clear that Instagram is not going away. We'll be working with Facebook to evolve Instagram and build the network. We'll continue to add new features to the product and find new ways to create a better mobile photos experience."So, Instagram continues as an independent app: this isn't a so-called "acqui-hire" where the value is in the startup's team and knowledge rather than its existing app or user-base.With the latter being more than 30m strong in Instagram's case, that's perhaps not a surprise. "This is an important milestone for Facebook because it's the first time we've ever acquired a product and company with so many users. We don't plan on doing many more of these, if any at all," wrote Zuckerberg.So why break Facebook's acquisition formula this time, and for such a large amount? Bear in mind that only days before the acquisition, the blogosphere buzz around Instagram was of a new $50m funding round for the company – a round that TechCrunch isclaiming went through– valuing it at $500m rather than $1bn.One way of looking at the deal is the web's largest photo-sharing service (Facebook) buying one of its fast-rising potential competitors. It sounds far-fetched given that $1bn figure, but photos have been seen as a key area for Facebook for some time, including strong rumours it wasworking on a standalone photo-sharing appin June 2011, although that never came out.Seeing the Instagram acquisition as merely quashing a potential competitor to one aspect of Facebook's offering is far too narrow an outlook, though. Better, surely to view the deal against the increasingly familiar backdrop of Facebook's "It's complicated" relationship with Google and Apple.One of the things people like most about the Google+ social network is its photo-sharing features. Buying Instagram not only bolsters Facebook's capabilities on that front – photo filters in its official app within a few months, anyone? – but also keeps the startup out of Google's clutches, should it have been tempted to make its own acquisition bid.The fact that the deal was announced days after Instagram launched on Android and notched up more than 1m downloads in its first day adds spice to that theory.And Apple? Instagram and Apple have rubbed along nicely for some time, with Instagram crowned Apple's iPhone App of the Year in its iTunes Rewind 2011 App Store promotion.Yet Apple has also been working on its own mobile photography capabilities:photo-editing in iOS 5, and most recently the launch of afully-fledged iPhoto app, complete with filters and a sharing feature called Photo Journals.If you buy the theory that Google, Apple and Facebook are busily scrutinising one another's strengths and weaknesses, and moving quickly to plug the gaps in their mix of services, then one of them buying Instagram makes sense – with the competition (or even just the threat of competition) driving up the price.Here's a good quote to put that in context, from Google's then-CEO Eric Schmidt,speaking in May 2009during a deposition for the lawsuit between Viacom and YouTube – Google bought the latter in 2006 for $1.65bn."This is a company with very little revenue... growing quickly with user adoption, growing much faster than Google Video, which was the product that Google had. And they had indicated to us that they would be sold, and we believed that there would be a competing offer – because of who Google was –paying much more than they were worth...We ultimately concluded that $1.65 billion included a premium for moving quickly and making sure that we could participate in the user success in YouTube."The parallel isn't exact – Facebook's photo-sharing feature is far from a Google Video in terms of user uptake – but the premium for moving quickly point holds true. YouTube has since gone from strength to strength under Google's ownership, so it remains to be seen if Instagram will follow suit within Facebook.In the meantime, watch for knock-on effects. Instagram rival Path may have just become an even more tempting acquisition prospect for Google or Apple, for example.It will also be interesting to see how Instagram's co-founders and still-small team fare at Facebook. Wired is already suggesting thatSystrom owns 40% of the company, meaning a cool $400m from the acquisition, with co-founder Mike Krieger taking $100m, and another $100m to be shared between the company's 13 employees.Continuing "to add new features to the product and find new ways to create a better mobile photos experience" is an important ambition for an app that is still relatively young. The challenge – for Systrom and Zuckerberg alike – will be to keep this creative momentum going in the face of such riches.
Social network giant Facebook has bought Instagram – a profitless, two-year-old photo sharing website – for $1bn.Instagram is a mobile sensation that counts Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey among its backers. It has been downloaded by over 30 million people. When the Silicon Valley startup released a version for Android phone users this month, it was downloaded a million times in its first 12 hours.Celebrities including Justin Bieber and Kim Kardashian have accounts.  PresidentBarack Obamasigned up in January.The app allows people to share photos taken with their mobiles with friends on its own site and Facebook, Twitter or via text. Photographers can use a variety of filters to alter the look of their pics, with names like Lo-fi, Earlybird or Nashville giving their images a vintage, old world feel. Users can then vote on pictures and add comments.Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg broke the news on Facebook: "This is an important milestone for Facebook, because it's the first time we've ever acquired a product and company with so many users. We don't plan on doing many more of these, if any at all. But providing the best photo sharing experience is one reason why so many people love Facebook and we knew it would be worth bringing these two companies together."The company was founded in October 2010 by Stanford graduates Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger. At $1bn the price is the highest for a profitless startup since Google – also founded by a couple of students from Stanford, Sergey Brin and Larry Page – bought YouTube for $1.65bn in 2006.Asked about Instagram's history on the Q&amp;A site Quora recently, Systrom said he had "never expected the overwhelming response" the app had received."We went from literally a handful of users to the No 1 free photography app in a matter of hours."Systrom said Instagram took just eight weeks to build and launch, but was the result of over a year or work. "We decided that if we were going to build a company, we wanted to focus on being really good at one thing. We saw mobile photos as an awesome opportunity to try out some new ideas," he wrote.After experimenting with a more complicated app, the pair scrapped the project and started with something far simpler. "What remained was Instagram. (We renamed because we felt it better captured what you were doing – an instant telegram of sorts. It also sounded camera-y)," he wrote.Last yearhe told the Guardianthat for all its apparent simplicity Instagram had a lot of technological depth."There's this large network underneath where people can connect and follow inspiring photographers and friends around the world," said Systrom."That's what a lot of other apps don't provide, but we've combined it with the effects. We tried to lower the bar for producing awesome stuff, so people can walk around with their iPhones and produce amazing pictures. The network really democratises attention: everyone from celebrities to a random guy in Japan taking pictures of his dog every day can get many thousands of followers. Taking images is the great equaliser."At the SXSW conference in Austin this year, Systrom and Kreiger announced that the company's iPhone app had nearly doubled its number of registered users since December, going from 15 million users to 27 million.This is the first time that Facebook, which is in the process of going public in a deal that could value the company at more than $100bn, has made a big acquisition.Zuckerberg said the Instagram team would continue to operate as a separate company."We will try to learn from Instagram's experience to build similar features into our other products," Zuckerberg said in a statement. "At the same time, we will try to help Instagram continue to grow by using Facebook's strong engineering team and infrastructure."The sale comes shortly after Zynga, the online games firm, paid $200m for OMGPOP, maker of Draw Something, an online version of Pictionary that in less than two months has been downloaded over 50m times.
Facebook'sMark Zuckerburg has announcedthat his company will acquire photo-sharing app Instagram for a whopping $1bn in cash and shares. Why did Facebook pay such a massive price? We're collecting insights and observations from industry observers, reporters and readers. Tweet us@GuardianUS, or toss in your thoughts in the comments below.Silvia Killingsworth on what Instagram has that Facebook needs:If Twitter occupies the hyperverbal space in our shared Internet brain with bits of news, jokes, and news-jokes, Instagram falls in the hypervisual part, which revels in the bits of visual candy in the world around us. It combines the sharing of a social app with the emotion of a photo album, and sharing plus feelings equals sharing feelings—an activity neither Mark Zuckerberg nor his company are known for. Silvia Killingsworth,The New YorkerPaul Ford on Instagram selling out:Remember what the iPod was to Apple? That's how Instagram might look to Facebook: an artfully designed product that does one thing perfectly. Sure, you might say, but Instagram doesn't have any revenue. Have you ever run an ad on Facebook? The ad manager is a revelation — as perfectly organized and tidy as the rest of Facebook is sprawling and messy. Paul Ford,New York Magazine'It's simple: it's all about (mobile) photos', says Kara SwisherAstonishingly, Facebook users already upload an average of more than 250 million images daily, making it the most popular photo-sharing service on the Web. But it's not the best by far and not the most mobile, which is Facebook's biggest weakness — that has been accomplished many others, especially Instagram, the favorite of power users who scoffed at Facebook's weak tools. (The horror of no filters!) ~Kara Swisher, All Things D@GuardianUS@guardianMetadata. Facial recognition, location data, friend lists etc. huge mine of information for them to target.&mdash; Simon Harper (@simon_harper)April 9, 2012Today Facebook has NO revenues from mobile. None. That's amazing, since so many people, hundreds of millions of us, use Facebook on mobile clients. That will change very quickly after the IPO. Instagram will play a huge role here, plus Facebook gets a very talented mobile development team that has built world-leading mobile apps on iOS and Android (which got a million users in its first day). ~Robert Scoble, Rackspace startup liason manager, via QuoraInstagram is worth more to Facebook than to anyone else because it actually knows how to put all that user data to use. Nobody else does.&mdash; Tim Carmody (@tcarmody)April 9, 2012Facebook may also need Instagram to help it keep up with the constantly changing whims of the online audience. Facebook was born in the computer-and-browser era and is trying to adapt to a world that is increasingly mobile-centric. Instagram is a purely mobile creation. ~Jenna Wortham, New York TimesSeeing the Instagram acquisition as merely quashing a potential competitor to one aspect of Facebook's offering is far too narrow an outlook, though. Better, surely to view the deal against the increasingly familiar backdrop of Facebook's "It's complicated" relationship with Google and Apple. One of the things people like most about the Google+ social network is its photo-sharing features. Buying Instagram not only bolsters Facebook's capabilities on that front – photo filters in its official app within a few months, anyone? – but also keeps the startup out of Google's clutches, should it have been tempted to make its own acquisition bid. ~Stuart Dredge, The Guardian@GuardianUS'Story telling' is what makes social networks tick.Photos are the most powerful ingredient in telling these stories.#facetagram&mdash; Mark Westall (@mnjwestall)April 9, 2012Facebook and Instagram are two distinct companies with two distinct personalities. Instagram has what Facebook craves – passionate community. People like Facebook. People use Facebook. People love Instagram. It is my single most-used app. I spend an hour a day on Instagram. I have made friends based on photos they share. I know howthey feel, and how they see the world. Facebook lacks soul. Instagram is all soul and emotion. ~Om Malik, GigaomTo the extent that Facebook is succeeding in its bid to become an alternative web, where it controls the ecosystem rather than existing as part of the wider open web, it can afford to spend any amount of money to buy what amounts to a feature. But there's another way to think about this deal, too, and it summons other lessons from the ICQ era. ~Dan Gillmor, Guardian US Comment is freeGiving up 1% of your market cap to take out biggest threat is a savvy move.&mdash; chris dixon (@cdixon)April 9, 2012If Facebook didn't figure this problem out, it might have gone the way of Friendster. Friendster lost to Facebook because users found they could do what they wanted to do with much more speed and simplicity on Facebook than they could on Friendster. ~Nicholas Carlson, Business InsiderI think it's a bit of a departure in that Instagram will remain live and separate. But I think that's the right play here. FB trying to subsume IG would harm and/or kill it. Now it can still flourish on its own. There will be tie-ins, obviously. I see it as not unlike Google/YouTube in that regard. ~MG Siegler, Hunter Walk, Jeremiah Gordon, Narendra Rocherolle, Sujay Jaswa, and Jason Calacanis,BranchFacebook, with 800 million users, was freaked out by a tiny startup.  It's always good to be paranoid, but when a giant company, one that's valued at $100 billion, is suddenly scrambling to protect its core business, it has to be worrisome. ~Jay Yarow,Business Insider.@billtIn Zuck's announcement, I sense the start of the social conglomerate vs the consolidation of the single social service&mdash; Jeff Jarvis (@jeffjarvis)April 9, 2012
Facebook has bought the photo-sharing application Instagram for areported $1bn.Here's the full statement by founder Mark Zuckerbergissued on the Facebook website.Statement by Mark ZuckerbergI'm excited to share the news that we've agreed to acquire Instagram and that their talented team will be joining Facebook.For years, we've focused on building the best experience for sharing photos with your friends and family. Now, we'll be able to work even more closely with the Instagram team to also offer the best experiences for sharing beautiful mobile photos with people based on your interests.We believe these are different experiences that complement each other. But in order to do this well, we need to be mindful about keeping and building on Instagram's strengths and features rather than just trying to integrate everything into Facebook.That's why we're committed to building and growing Instagram independently. Millions of people around the world love the Instagram app and the brand associated with it, and our goal is to help spread this app and brand to even more people.We think the fact that Instagram is connected to other services beyond Facebook is an important part of the experience. We plan on keeping features like the ability to post to other social networks, the ability to not share your Instagrams on Facebook if you want, and the ability to have followers and follow people separately from your friends on Facebook.These and many other features are important parts of the Instagram experience and we understand that. We will try to learn from Instagram's experience to build similar features into our other products. At the same time, we will try to help Instagram continue to grow by using Facebook's strong engineering team and infrastructure.This is an important milestone for Facebook because it's the first time we've ever acquired a product and company with so many users. We don't plan on doing many more of these, if any at all. But providing the best photo sharing experience is one reason why so many people love Facebook and we knew it would be worth bringing these two companies together.We're looking forward to working with the Instagram team and to all of the great new experiences we're going to be able to build together.Why did Facebook pay $1bn?Why did Facebook pay such a massive price?We're collecting insights and observationsfrom industry observers, reporters and readers.
AOL is to sell more than 800 technology patents and related applications to Microsoft for about $1.1bn (£690m), in the latest land grab in an increasingly expensive battle for intellectual property.AOL, facing pressure from unhappy shareholders, said it would return a "significant portion" of the sale proceeds to them. "The agreement with Microsoft represents the culmination of a robust auction process for our patent portfolio," said the chief executive, Tim Armstrong.Patents are becoming increasingly hot properties as companies battle over the technology underpinning smartphones, social networks and tablet computers.Google has struck the biggest deal so far, announcing plans last year to buy Motorola Mobility for $12.5bn, largely for its portfolio of mobile patents.Samsung and Apple are engaged in a court battles around the world over who owns which patents relating to Apple's iPhone 4S, iPad and Samsung's Galaxy Nexus.AOL owns patents relating to instant messaging, online chat and email, online media, search and browsers."Many of these patents relate to fundamental online communication technologies, stemming from AOL's early dominance in the instant messaging and email markets," the patent analyst Envision IP wrote in ablogpost.AOL has not said exactly what the patents cover. Under the terms of the transaction it will retain a licence for them.The deal may come as a useful reprieve for Armstrong, who is facing pressure from the activist investor Starboard Value. Starboard is mounting a proxy campaign to win seats on AOL's board, and has been critical of Armstrong's decision to focus the firm on online media such as the Huffington Post, which it acquired last year for $315m.
If you're a fighting game fan, you'll have seen the videos. Street Fighter producer Yoshinori Ono and his Tekken equivalent, Katsuhiro Harada, at the San Diego Comic Con, battling it out over a series of ridiculous competitive tasks. In the run up to the release of Street Fighter v Tekken, the good-natured rivalry between these two games industry veterans became a priceless marketing tool. They didn't just make the game, they symbolised it.In late March, Ono became ill during a promotional tour of Asia. He was taken to hospital but later released and although he has temporarily stepped down from his position as Street Fighter series producer, he is staying in touch with the game.Indeed, in a lot of ways, he is the game. Ono has come to embody the spirit of the new Street Fighter – steeped in tradition, but not afraid to laugh at itself. Famously, he carries a little toy of electrified Street Fighter character Blanka with him on every press tour. Although only a series producer for the last couple of iterations, he's been involved with Street Fighter for years, originally on the audio side. He was sound supervisor on Street Fighter III: Third Strike, the era of the brand that he felt scared away a lot of potential players with its complexity.When I got to question him a couple of weeks before his illness, I started out by asking about the game's origins back in the late-eighties; about Capcom's decision to enter the burgeoning fighting game genre. "At the time, Takashi Nishiyama, who was my senior at the company and now the President of Dimps worked on a number of games, including Spartan X before coming to Capcom," he explains. "As a game designer, Nishiyama-san always had wanted to create that type of fighting genre. Street Fighter 1 could be considered the first modern day fighting game."But was Nishiyama inspired by the likes of Karate Champ or Yie Ar Kung Fu? "It was more influenced by popular Japanese manga," says Ono. "From what I heard, it was never Nishiyama's intention to go out and make a better game than what was already out there, but rather to make his own ideal game as a designer. But anyway, those special moves were really hard to do in the original Street Fighter, so they didn't come out very often. I remember Nishiyama-san told me he once got upset at the development team and shouted, 'If these are really special moves they gotta come out when you need them!' "Ono is amiable, funny, a natural clown, but he's also very serious about what Capcom needs to do to survive in the current industry. Last year, he gave an interview to Japanese games magazine Famitsu in which he stated his intent to spearhead a social and mobile gaming revolution at the publisher, making social connectivity a key element of all its titles. The future is probably Street Fighter v Facebook.For now though, the important thing is the current game, a breathless showdown between two very different fighting brands. Street Fighter is the exacting 2D classic, the hardcore bruiser; Tekken is the glitzy 3D showman that symbolised the dawn of the PlayStation era.The prospect of a co-production first came up a couple of years ago. It was Ono who had the idea – he'd heard that Tekken producer Harada was a big fan of Street Fighter ("it might be the case that he is better at Street Fighter than he is at Tekken," says Ono), so he put forward the concept of Street Fighter v Tekken. Perhaps he was inspired by the Dreamcast-era cross-over project Capcom vs SNK; it certainly wasn't because Ono was secretly obsessed with Harada's series."I was never very good at Tekken," he admits. "Before we started making this game, I had never dreamed that we could make this project a reality, so I didn't play Tekken very seriously back then. Once the project was given the go ahead however, I put my full attention into learning the game, the characters, the battle mechanics, and the match-ups. I didn't get any better at the game though…"I ask who his Tekken character of choice is – it's Nina Williams, apparently. Or at least it was. Sometime during the development of SF x T, he saw everyone else in his office opting for Xiaoyu, so immediately swapped allegiances to this ultra-athletic school girl.Surely at some point early in production, it must have seemed like madness, mixing these very different combat systems. Street Fighter uses a system of light, medium and heavy attacks usually based around a six-button layout and a combo mechanic that employs circular and semi-circular joystick moves; Tekken has four buttons, one for each limb, and combos mostly based on sequential button presses and directional jabs. They don't fit.Ono laughs. "We get this question quite often and it was definitely a main concern of ours. Street Fighter and Tekken are very different, even though they're under the same umbrella of 'fighting games'. We couldn't just take Tekken characters and put them into a Street Fighter game, so we decided to take the key elements from both franchises and make something completely new. Although Tekken is a 3D fighting game, it still contains many 2D elements within its core gameplay, and that made the transition process much smoother."So now the fighting system cleverly combines both. Street Fighter characters get the six-button array, while Tekken veterans can access many of the four-button moves they're used to as well as discovering new heavy punch and kick attacks and a range of specials and supers. Introducing a rich selection of new moves designed to aid newcomers will indulging experts it's a surprisingly robust amalgamation, a triumph of sheer will over contrasting engines.One key addition I want to ask Ono about is the controversial Gem system which allows players to augment certain favourite moves. It seems like something out of the RPG genre, but also something very modern – a nod toward the customization fervour of the social gaming age. "With the gem system, we wanted to add a layer of personalisation that had never been seen before in fighting games," says Ono. "No longer should customisation be purely cosmetic; it should be about fusing your own play style into characters, and that's what we've managed to do with the gem system."No gem is more powerful than another, and it is all about finding out what works for you as a player and you personally. New players to the genre can utilise Assist gems in order to cover their weaknesses, while more experienced players can utilise Boost gems to increase the parameters of their characters. Either way, the gem system has something to offer everyone out there, and I am very excited to see what combinations players come up with!"Another key element of the new game is the choice of characters. There's a roster of 50, with 25 from each title (though PlayStation versions offer five extra guest characters). "We wanted to create a festival that everyone could join," says Ono. "So we put in all the most popular characters from each franchise. We wanted new and old players to enjoy the variety of characters, so there is something for everyone in the roster."Even similar types of characters play differently. Take Zangief and Marduk, for example; they are both 'power' characters, but they do not play the same way, and I believe players will enjoy these kinds of matches as well."He admits, though, that it's getting harder and harder to select balanced rosters in Street Fighter games. As the menagerie grows and the hardware gets more powerful, the temptation must be there to just chuck everyone in – or at least make great armies of extra fighters available as DLC."The most important thing is to build a roster that contains varied play styles and varied personalities," says Ono. "As we always say, fighting games are not just mere entertainment that you watch, they are tools for the players. This is also true when we create new characters; we want to keep things as diverse and interesting as possible. I'm sure you can see this with recent Street Fighter games, as they end up having huge rosters – the balancing act has become quite a difficult task for us!"But what is it that has allowed Street Fighter protagonists to remain popular, to remain balanced? "I believe it's because every character can be seen as a 'main character' in one way or another," he says. "In other older games, you basically controlled one or two fighters, and every other character was an enemy, or had a minor role. Street Fighter was always about the player making their own gameplay experiences, just like in chess or poker. Whichever character you choose, that becomes the main character in your eyes. That is why players have loved the characters over all these years."The interesting element of this whole cross-over enterprise is that Street Fighter x Tekken was developed entirely by Capcom, with no input from Namco. At all. "They gave us complete creative freedom with the collaboration project," says Ono. "They never tried to steer the direction of things, and just gave us helpful advice. It really made the development process a lot easier than we had initially imagined."Now, it's up to Namco. Harada and his team will have already begun work on their response, Tekken x Street Fighter. Can we expect a whole new roster? How will the button layout change? Surely accommodating the Tekken system within a Street Fighter structure was the easier task? But then successfully translating the fireballs and extending limbs of the SF heroes into the fully 3D Tekken universe?"Honestly, I haven't seen a single thing about it!" laughs Ono. "Harada is notoriously slow at making games, so it might be 2018 before that comes out!"Fighting games in 2018? That will be a rather frightening 35 years after the first formative titles in the genre emerged. How does Ono see the whole concept evolving in the near future? "I believe the analog and digital environments need to be blended together more seamlessly," he says. "Right now, we are very happy that there are Street Fighter tournaments going on all around the world, both online and offline. Live stream technology has allowed for viewers to watch them like never before."But we want more and more people to become interested in fighting games so that we can grow the genre. It would be nice if we could create a means of giving new players an easy way to get acquainted with the existing fighting game community. If we can include more social features in the future titles that could help grow the communities. That would be ideal."Ono is on the road almost constantly, publicising Street Fighter all over the world. I figure it's either the only game he plays or that he plays nothing. Turns out I'm wrong. When I ask about what he manages to play in-between promo appearances, he has a list ready. "I often play 3DS: Mario Kart online in the hotel," he says. "And when I can't sleep, I play Resident Evil Revelations – it makes me so excited and tired that it helps me sleep. And I love playing Ace Combat on the airplane.""Oh, and I always play Pro Evolution Soccer and FIFA on my PSP when I go to Europe, just as a communication tool. I make sure to practice on either game before I get into a European country."What a great time we live in!"
It's Easter Monday, but on the off-chance there are still a few Gamesblog regulars loafing about hoping to discuss games, the Chatterbox is open!
Google has celebrated the 182nd anniversary of the birth ofEadweard J Muybridge, the British photographer, by creating a "doodle" based on his ground-breaking 19th-century images of racehorses.The animated graphic celebrates Muybridge's "The Horse in Motion", a film strip-style collection of shots created using 24 cameras which capture the running habits of racehorses owned by Leland Stanford, a Californian businessman and animal breeder.Stanford had wanted to know if galloping horses had all four legs off the ground, as previously portrayed by painters, and engaged Muybridge in an attempt to find out.The photographs, taken in 1872 and regarded as one of the earliest forms of videography, demonstrated that all four legs often did leave the ground. However, they were not as artists had depicted them, with the legs stretched out fore and aft, but with the four legs tucked up under the horse.Born in Kingston-upon-Thames on 9 April 1830, Muybridge later emigrated to the US and worked in the publishing sector before returning to England for a few years. While recuperating after a stagecoach accident that took place in the US, he became deeply interested in photography.In the mid-1860s, he began to focus on landscape and architectural subjects, before producing the photographs of Yosemite National Park that established his reputation.In 1874 Muybridge was prosecuted for and acquitted of the murder of his wife's lover, a San Francisco Post drama critic. Muybridge's lawyer entered a plea of insanity, although the jury actually found that the killing was a justifiable homicide under "unwritten law".He went on to use banks of cameras to photograph people and animals to study their movement and worked under the auspices of the University of Pennsylvania. He eventually returned to the UK, where he died of a heart attack in May 1904 after publishing the last in a series of popular books based on his images and research.
Sitting at the lights on the A205 in a car that looks like it's smashed through the crash barriers at Donington to taste life on the open road is an unusual experience. I&nbsp;expected gawking and pointing, but my fellow road users are almost hysterical with delight. There's waving, cheering, air-punching… Rob Huff wouldn't be surprised, because this is what his car looks like – but with one crucial difference. He came second in his in last year's World Touring Car Championships, and mine isn't a&nbsp;racing car at all. It's a regular road-going hatch that's been "wrapped" for promotional purposes. But they don't need to know that, do they?Chevrolet has always felt as at home on a race track as on the A205. The marque, which has just celebrated its centenary, was set up by a racing driver – Louis-Joseph Chevrolet. It's ironic that a brand as American as apple pie and the maker that blessed us with that holy trinity of muscle motors – the Corvette, Corvair and Camaro – is actually the brainchild of a&nbsp;French-speaking Swiss émigré.Louis-Joseph's name is now being celebrated with the launch of six new Chevrolets in Europe – the Orlando, Cruze Hatch, New Aveo, Camaro, Volt and Corvette Grand Sport. These models have already appeared in the American and Chinese markets – Chevrolet figures that if it can satisfy the appetite of the world's most voracious car buyers, then they'll slip down a treat in little old England.The company is no stranger to very big numbers. Chevrolet is the world's fourth-largest car brand and someone somewhere in the 130 countries where the cars are sold buys a&nbsp;Chevvy every seven seconds.One you might be tempted to buy in the next seven-second window is this new-look Cruze – though possibly not in full race wraps. The Cruze was launched as a&nbsp;saloon two years ago in China and last year became its bestselling car. Now it's arrived here as a hatch. Hatches are more practical, as they're easier to shove things into, so Chevrolet's marketing people must think that we as motorists are more practical than our Chinese cousins. I think we should take that as a compliment.Usually motoring journalists list the pros and cons of a test car and then round things off with the bad news of the price. But with the Cruze it has to be the other way round, because the price is so dizzyingly low: £13,995 for a&nbsp;roomy five-seat family hatch that does 40-plus to the gallon is remarkable. Maybe that's what all the hysteria was about on the A205.The other surprise is how well built it is. There's plenty of chrome about, and the famous bowtie emblem that's featured on every Chevvy built since 1913 tops off a&nbsp;handsome face. The interior does border on the basic, but a&nbsp;roll call of advanced safety features reveals ABS, traction control and airbags are all in attendance, and the drive is a lot more compelling than you'd expect.You've just spent about 70 seconds reading to this point – so that's another 10 Chevvys on the road…
On the evening of Tuesday, 5 July 2005, I attended an invitation-only seminar at the London School of Economics. Those attending included academics, some experienced journalists, senior officers from the Metropolitan Police's counter-terrorism command and the security services and officials from the Home and Foreign and Commonwealth Offices. The purpose of the seminar was to discuss the difficulties that arise in media coverage of security issues.One issue that surfaced early in the discussion was trust. Here's how one of the media people put it (I'm paraphrasing from memory)."We all agree that some of the potential threats of al-Qaida-type terrorism – for example, the release of radioactive material or a biological agent in a crowded city – are so horrendous that democracies would be justified in taking the most draconian measures to counter them. Such measures would drastically curtail civil and even human rights."But we in the media are never in a position to assess whether measures proposed by security authorities are proportionate, rational or reasonable, because 'national security' prevents them from revealing the evidence that has led them to demand further intrusive powers. So we're left with a simple, unpalatable choice: trust the authorities or question the proposed measures and be pilloried for being irresponsible or unpatriotic."The problem is that some official actions in the past, such as sending tanks to Heathrow to counter an alleged terrorist threat, don't exactly inspire confidence in the security authorities' competence or judgment. How can we tell whether a request for an extension of powers is a reasonable demand or simply another case of bureaucratic empire-building at the expense of liberty? Answer: we can't."Not surprisingly, the seminar ended on an inconclusive note. Afterwards, I walked up to Holborn and caught the tube to King's Cross.Two days later, a terrorist bomb exploded on that same section of the Piccadilly line.Last week's hoo-hah about proposed extensions of electronic snooping powers for GCHQ, antiterrorism cops and the intelligence services brought memories of that 2005 seminar flooding back. The basic scenario hasn't changed. Because of technological changes, we are told, criminals and terrorists are using internet technologies on an increasing scale. Some of these technologies (eg Skype) make it difficult for the authorities to monitor these evil communications. So we need sweeping new powers to enable the government to defend us against these baddies. These powers are as yet unspecified but will probably include "deep packet inspection" as a minimum. And, yes, these new measures will be costly and intrusive, but there will be "safeguards".The fierce public reaction to these proposals seems to have taken the government by surprise, which suggests ministers have been asleep at the wheel. My hunch is that the proposals were an attempt by the security services to slip one over politicians by selling them to senior officials in the Home Office, who, like their counterparts across the civil service, know sweet FA about technology and are liable to believe 10 implausible assertions before breakfast. In that sense, the Home Office has been "captured" by GCHQ and MI5 much as the health department has been captured by consultancy companies flogging ludicrous ICT projects.The deputy prime minister was deputed to defuse the row about these new surveillance powers before it got out of hand. He is now promising open parliamentary hearings about the measures. The draft clauses of the new bill, he says, will be published in early May and will be scrutinised by the Commons home affairs select committee in public session.The fact that these minimal undertakings are regarded within government as significant concessions is a measure of how far the rot has gone. But we are where we are. So here are some questions for the select committee members.1. Nobody disputes that bad guys use the internet and mobile phones. But what is the empirical evidence that new surveillance measures are necessary? How do independent experts assess the reliability of this evidence?2. What are the details of the surveillance measures proposed? (If the answer is: "We can't tell you because of national security", return to base.)3. What is the evidence that these measures will be effective against the alleged threats? How do independent experts assess this evidence?4. What costs will these measures impose on internet service providers and other companies?5. Why is the internet being targeted when outlawing the sale of non-contract mobile phones would be a much more effective way of disrupting criminal communications?6. Are the proposed measures "proportionate" in the sense of balancing the erosion of civil liberties against empirical measures of the dangers posed by online crime and terrorism?7. Given what we are learning from theLeveson inquiryabout our public institutions, why should we trust them with anything, let alone our civil liberties?
In the build-up to the release of the new iPad, there were plenty of rumours about what was in store for the lucky consumers – a physically responsive haptic feedback screen, a mini-version, a foot massager? What actually turned up was an improved screen, with retina display, a faster processor and a 5MP camera.These additions underwhelmed some, but primed the iPad for Apple's photo manipulation tool,iPhoto(App Store, £2.99). There are plenty of photo editing suites already available, but this is hard to beat for non-experts. There are four areas – crop and straighten, colour, effects and exposure – all easy to use with a simple gesture interface and help via a question mark in the top corner. Even a beginner can quickly be removing red-eye and adding a healthy tan to deficient pics.But if something more entertaining is needed, what better to download than the first proper sequel to the most successful app/game ever,Angry Birds: Space(App Store, Rovio, 69p)? It takes the now all-too-familiar pig-hating avians into the stratosphere, adding a healthy dose of zero-gravity to the physics-based puzzler. The porcine foe now hide on a variety of planetoids – which have their own gravitational pulls – creating a more varied challenge, and there's even a new ice bird to attack the porkers and their hideouts. It's as addictive as ever and a sign that the developers are seeking to push the envelope as their superstar brand develops.
Cynics would have it that the motor racing genre is hamstrung by its own conventions – there's only so much you can do with a car, right? That's a theoryRidge Racer Unboundedlooks to put to the test. For the first time,Ridge Racermoves away from traditional racing, instead concentrating on vehicle combat and destruction of urban environments, although some defining elements do remain. Like its predecessors, it is a game still wedded to the classic combo of drift-driving and high-energy dance music.The result of this brave stab at a new direction, however, is something of a mixed blessing. While this iteration has tossed convention to the wind, it has done so only to follow a well-trodden evolutionary path. Numerous contemporary driving series have adopted a similarly gritty urban setting, andRidge Racer's new look merely joins them, rather than bringing fresh rubber to the party. It is prettier and more challenging than most, and certainly very good insofar as exciting racing is concerned. But, for all its effort,Unboundedwill be a familiar experience for seasoned gamers.
As commercial comebacks go, it's not quite up there with Lazarus, but Tiger Woods's image returning to the cover of the game that bears his name does at least indicate a degree of rehabilitation. WhileTWPGAT13slavishly follows the template set down by the firstTiger Woodsgames more than a decade ago, there are some updates and changes.The swing system, for instance, has been tweaked and if you're using a control-pad, the changes are helpful. Iffy swings are highlighted and they're easier to identify thanks to a more logical presentation of both the on-screen swing arc and the thumb-motion on the pad.Kinect control is a less precise affair, as it's ill-suited to the sort of tiny adjustments required to finesse a swing from "so-so" to "outstanding". And it's infuriatingly thick when it comes to interpreting menu-navigation gestures. Which is a pity, because gesture control is the only compelling reason to buyTWPGAT13if you've any of the otherTigertitles from the last five years or so.
A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away, a small boy dreamed of wielding a lightsaber and becoming a Jedi. Well, for a long time read 35 years, and for far, far away read Muswell Hill, but you take the point;Star Wars Kinectis a game that has long been eagerly awaited.So how does it do? The answer rather depends on what you want from it. As a family-friendly game, it's varied, entertaining and a (qualified) success. As a full-blown Jedi simulator it's a dagger to the heart of fanboys everywhere.There are five game modes on offer. "Jedi Destiny" is a surprisingly long quest in the clone war era that involves battling relentless waves of droids and lizard-creatures interspersed with space battles, speeder chases and more. All of which is rather fun, not least because it's pretty easy and plays like it's on rails. The only thing wrong with it is the lightsaber controls, which are inexcusably imprecise and often frustrating. Compared to the elegance ofSkyward Swordon the Wii,SWKmakes the lightsaber both clumsy and random. Obi-Wan must be spinning in his blue aura. Which, in turn, makes "Duels of Fate", in which you take on a series of opponents with your saber, culminating in Darth Vader, something of a chore. "Podracing" sees you race alone or against a friend in split-screen. The Kinect controls work well here, but in order to make it playable the top speeds are quite pedestrian. It's perfect for family fun or post-pub laughs, however.The most successful mini-games are surprising. "Rancor Rampage" lets you lumber around your front room smashing up Mos Eisley, hurling bots and eating civilians. And here the imprecision of the controls just adds to the sense of lumbering might. Improbably, perhaps, "Galactic Dance Off" is the star of the show, pitting you against a bikini-clad Princess Leia dropping moves in an effort to impress Jabba the Hutt. The Kinect controls seem vastly more precise here, and the altered lyrics of the three pop classics are brilliant.All in,Star Wars Kinectis a pretty good game. It lets you jump, spin and use the Force like a true Jedi. Unfortunately, in this galaxy, right now, it also only allows players to wield a lightsaber with the accuracy and grace of a stampeding bantha.
Hacking group Anonymous has claimed to have taken down the Home Office website with a cyber-attack announced days in advance.The website has been offline with a message reading: "Due to a high volume of traffic this page is currently unavailable."Anonymous announced on Twitter: "TANGO DOWN - http://www.homeoffice.gov.uk For your draconian surveillance proposals! Told you to #ExpectUs!"The group was thought to have used a denial-of-service attack, where large numbers of computers overload a website with requests.If proven to be true, the incident could prove embarrassing for the government as the method is considered one of the least complicated tools in the hackers' arsenal. Anonymous had promised to carry out the mass assault in a tweet posted on Wednesday and a flurry of messages in following days encouraged supporters to join in. The message began "ruh roh!" and promised "an #Anonymous attack on the UK Home Office site" on Saturday.A flyer posted online said the action was taking place in support of three people facing extradition on hacking charges, including Gary McKinnon, who faces up to 60 years behind bars if he is deported to the US. Retired businessman Christopher Tappin, who has been extradited to the US on arms dealing charges, and Richard O'Dwyer, who is appealing against a similar fate over copyright infringement, also featured in the advert above the strapline "charge ya lazers". The flyer also gave the IP address for the Home Office's website.An article accompanying the online call to arms read: "A faction of hactivist group Anonymous in the UK has invited its supporters to draw digital arms in protest against the extradition of three UK citizens to the US."A message on a Twitter feed for a group calling itself AnonOpUK read: "#OpTrialAtHome a success, Well done everyone ;) #Anonymous #AnonFamily."Before the attack started, the group tweeted: "Pre #OpTrialAtHome pizza is on way ;)."The group also appeared to signal a countdown to the action an hour and 30 minutes before it started.The Home Office said in a statement: "We are aware of some reports that the Home Office website may be the subject of an online protest."We have put all potential measures in place and will be monitoring the situation very closely. If a successful denial of service attempt does occur tonight, we will liaise with the technical team and update as necessary." However the statement was still being released to news outlets after the site was taken down. A spokesman said: "We are aware of the situation and are working on it."A crackdown on Anonymous and similar groups, such as LulzSec has taken place on both sides of the Atlantic with a number of high-profile operations involving British police and the FBI.
Kinect: Star Wars, Xbox 360The image conjured up by Kinect Star Wars is one of you wielding a lightsaber in your sitting room.The profoundly disappointing reality is you standing in front of the TV, forlornly waving an empty hand while your character thrashes about, almost randomly, on screen. Ducking and jumping work seamlessly, but that's hardly an adequate recompense for the crappy lightsaber duels. Pod racing has to be endured with both hands held out in front of you (a stress position used to break the will of interrogation subjects and one that works equally well at home); Rancor Rampage is a mess of failed gesture detection; and Galactic Dance Off is a pitiful Dance Central clone. Just abysmal.Microsoft, £34.99-£39.99Rhythm Thief &amp; The Emperor's Treasure, Nintendo 3DSRhythm Thief & The Emperor's TreasureWith more than a hint of Professor Layton about it, Rhythm Thief &amp; The Emperor's Treasure has you exploring the sights and streets of Paris, tapping for hidden medals in its charmingly rendered scenery and solving miniature mysteries for oddball passers-by. Instead of the Professor's puzzles, you'll find a plethora of rhythm action-based mini-games and a hero with a habit of nocturnal thievery. Stylus swipes, button presses, swaying the 3DS and all sorts of touch screen interactions are backed up by a range of jazzy tunes and styling reminiscent of bygone Dreamcast favourite, Space Channel 5. It's nothing less than hugely entertaining.Sega, £32.99-39.99Clear Vision, iPod, iPhone &amp; iPadClear VisionClear Vision is a beautifully orchestrated and surprisingly dark mini drama about Tyler Smith, a man who loses his job and drifts into work as a sniper rifle-toting hitman. As well as the elegantly simple mechanics of observing, then adjusting for distance and wind before hitting your stick man target, you must also figure out which stick person is the one you're supposed to be shooting. The game's black humour seeps from newspaper headlines and pithy moments of dialogue as your life is complicated first by civilian casualties and then a live-in lover. A perfect half-hour of entertainment.FDG Mobile Games, 69pGames newsCapcom Digital CollectionIn a round of industry austerity measures, Sega has issued a profits warning and announced plans for "streamlining", THQ is losing 118 members of staff, and Sony has closed Zipper Interactive, developer of the SOCOM series and recent Vita title, Unit 13, in what it describes in exquisite management double-speak as "a normal cycle of resource re-alignment".Modern Warfare 3players are planning a 24-hour strike on 20 April to protest against the absence of patches for a catalogue of issues they believe mar the multiplayer game. It's unclear how a temporary lull in server traffic will inconvenience Activision, but protesters hope it will send a message of dissatisfaction to the world's largest games publisher.Other titles out now includeCapcom Digital Collection, a solid little compendium of Xbox Live Arcade  games andSecrets Of The Titanic 1912-2012, a stupendously dull game of finding hidden objects.
It's not nice to agree with someone of whom you essentially disapprove. I've&nbsp;found myself doing&nbsp;that&nbsp;a bit recently with@piersmorganon Twitter. We support the same football team, and although the man&nbsp;is obviously a vainglorious cock, he does make some sense on&nbsp;the subject of the Arsenal. I've&nbsp;even found myself halfway through a half-formed thought on the subject and then, ping, up it pops on Twitter, irritatingly succinct and to the point, from him.Can there be anyone worse to agree with than Piers Morgan? Possibly Jeremy Clarkson. (Didn't&nbsp;they once have a punch-up?Weird – a fight in which you want both sides to lose.) I don't mean agreeing with Jezza about public sector workers, or Wales, or Germany, or gay people, or anything&nbsp;like that; I just mean agreeing with him about cars. SpecificallyVauxhalls, which he never likes. Nor do I. I try to, mainly&nbsp;because Clarkson doesn't, but it never works. They're always so dull, so&nbsp;MOR, they're actually a&nbsp;hazard to&nbsp;oncoming traffic.Until now, possibly. This Astra GTC&nbsp;is based on the everyday Astra,&nbsp;but they've made it lower and&nbsp;sleeker and hungrier-looking, with ripples in the right places. And&nbsp;it's actually a rather handsome&nbsp;car. Maybe not as striking&nbsp;or desirable as&nbsp;aVolkswagen&nbsp;Scirocco, say, but it's both roomier inside and cheaper. Anyway, I reckon it was&nbsp;a&nbsp;mistake to&nbsp;hang on to the Astra name and the Astra association, because they've made it into something so much more appealing. It's like talking about Moët &amp; Chandon fizzy&nbsp;fermented grape juice. Well, a&nbsp;bit like that.What's more, it goes very well, too,&nbsp;crisp, and sparkly... and, yes, why not drag this bubbly thing out to breaking point. Popping point. It's&nbsp;an Astra Spumanti to rival the VW Prosecco... Stop it! What I mean is it's tight and assured on the corners, and gutsy enough when you put your foot down. It is simply a very nice car to drive.A likable Vauxhall, then, now there's a thing. So what does Jeremy&nbsp;make of the Astra GTC? Oh,&nbsp;my research reveals that he hasn't reviewed it. Perhaps Vauxhall&nbsp;won't send him cars after he's been so rude about them. Anyway, it's good news because it means there's no danger of agreeing with him on this one, and&nbsp;jeopardising my reputation not just as a famous motoring journalist but also as a&nbsp;human being.What would Piers Morgan make of&nbsp;it, I wonder. You know what, who cares what Piers thinks. About anything. Cheers.Vauxhall Astra GTC 1.6i 16v Turbo (180)PriceFrom £21,570Top speed138mphAcceleration0-60mph in 7.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption42mpgCO2 emissions159g/kmEco rating5/10Cool rating7/10
The world's insatiable appetite for all things Apple appears to be reaching new levels. Silicon Valley's hottest company could soon become the world's first trillion-dollar company, according to Wall Street analysts.This week analyst Brian White of Topeka Capital Markets sparked a media frenzy with his headline-grabbing prediction that Apple's already sky-high share price will touch $1,000 within 12 months. Piper Jaffray's Gene Munster countered with an ever so slightly less bullish case that Apple's share price would hit four figures by 2014.The technology group achieved another milestone on Thursday as Apple's stock price rose above Google's for the first time. Steve Jobs, Apple's late co-founder, is rumoured to have decided against splitting Apple's stock in order to one day pass Google's share price.But for all the hoopla, the leap to $1,000 would be a big hike for a company that has already enjoyed a record run on the stock exchange.Last week Apple's shares were worth $633.38 each – slightly more than a mid-range iPad. A year ago they were changing hands at $341. At its current price Apple is valued at $590.82bn (£372bn), making it the most valuable company in the world. At $1,000 Apple would be worth nearly $1tn. No other company has been valued at anything like that price. "Apple fever is spreading like a wildfire around the world," White said in his report.Just what might send Apple's shares to $1,000 The answer is twofold: China and TV.When Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, stepped up to fill Jobs' outsized sneakers, some worried Apple's glory days were behind it. But so far the company, based in Cupertino, California, has more than delivered.In late January Cook announced record sales of iPhones and iPads as Apple more than doubled its profits to $13.06bn, compared with $6bn for the same quarter in 2010.Cook said the company had sold a record 37.04m iPhones in the final quarter of 2011, a 128% rise on a year ago. "We could have sold more if we'd had more supply," he said. The recently launched iPhone 4S proved to be the company's best seller in the quarter. "We could not be happier," said Cook.The company reported record sales across nearly all product categories. Apple sold a record 15.43m iPads over the quarter, more than double the number of a year ago. And the company overtook Samsung as the world's top smartphone maker last quarter, according to the research group Gartner.Topping that performance will be hard. In his report Munster forecast that Apple would sell 33m iPhones during the March quarter – 11% less than it sold in the holiday season. But those results excluded mainland China.In January Apple's launch of the iPhone 4S triggered a near riot in Beijing after a crowd of 2,000 – some of whom had waited overnight in freezing temperatures – lost patience and started pelting the store's windows with eggs.China remains a tiny market for Apple. But that is changing. Earlier this year Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty predicted Apple could sell 40m iPhones in China this year as it forges deals with the country's top three telecoms firms.There are more than 150m "high-end Chinese subscribers" in the country, according to Huberty, but Apple can only reach 10% through its partnership with China Unicom.Cook has called China Apple's second most important market. Recent revelations about poor conditions at Apple's Chinese factories may have damaged the brand's image in some eyes, but they do not seem to have affected sales in China or elsewhere.But in order to push Apple over the $1,000 mark, White is predicting that Cook will need to cement his place as Jobs' true heir with the launch of a new product – a television.Apple has long been rumoured to be eyeing the TV market – a move that could prove as disruptive to broadcast media as Apple's iPod proved to the music industry.Foxconn, the Apple manufacturer at the centre of the recent workplace abuse scandal, recently bought an 11% stake in LCD display maker, Sharp Corp, further fuelling rumours that an iTV (or whatever) is in the works.Cook has done little to dampen the rumours. Apple already has a TV product – a set-top box called Apple TV. But it has not set the world on fire.Cook recently hinted there may be something else in the pipeline. "Apple doesn't do hobbies as a general rule," he said speaking about Apple TV. The company "always thought there was something there, and that if we kept following our intuition and kept pulling that string, we might find something larger", he said."The key risk to the Apple story is pace of innovation," Munster wrote in his report. "While we have not seen anything to make us believe innovation will slow, it is the fundamental barrier that stands between shares at $600 and at $1,000. Apple has won the ecosystem and interface war, and must continue to innovate around its leadership position to grow the business."Going forward, consumer interest in owning future Apple products is a key metric to measuring Apple's pace of innovation."But not everyone is buying Apple as a $1tn behemoth. In fact some have questioned Apple's value at half that price.The company recently announced its first dividend since 1995 and said it would be buying back $10bn of its own shares. After selling all those iPads, Apple was sitting on close to $100bn in cash.At the time of the announcement Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners in New York, decided to look at the history of firms that had been valued at more than $500bn.Only six companies, including Apple, have been valued at over that figure. On average they have managed to stay above it for 90-180 days.In order to continue its record run Apple has to "smash earnings forecasts to pieces", Gillis said recently. And doing that quarter after quarter may prove too much – even for Apple.
Tim Waterstone, the founder of the eponymous bookstores, has warned that Amazon's "grotesquely unfair" avoidance of millions of pounds of UK taxes could lead to the death of high street bookshops.Waterstone said Amazon's tax avoidance reflects the company's "rude, contemptuous, arrogant and subversive" attitude to the rest of the book trade.The entrepreneur is the latest in a string of leading figures in the publishing industry to speak out against Amazon since the Guardian reported this week that the country's biggest online retailer paid no corporation tax on profits generated by last year's UK sales of £3.3bn.Waterstone, whoopened his first store on Old Brompton Road, London, in 1982before selling the business to his former employer WH Smith, said many in the publishing industry are "questioning the spirit and the ethos of the company's style".Amazon sells nearly one in four books in Britain, but the UK operation avoids tax as the ownership of the main Amazon.co.uk business was transferred to a Luxembourg company in 2006.Waterstone said Amazon's "highly creative worldwide tax planning" was grotesquely unfair. "The rest of us pay our taxes," he has witten in aGuardian comment piece. "It all somehow fits the pattern of Amazon's dealing with others over the years; rude, contemptuous, arrogant and subversive would be a standard reaction."He said Amazon had powered its domination of the industry by  single mindedly and ruthlessly focusing on "absolutely rock bottom pricing", which was putting other book shops out of business.Well-known book chains, including Borders and Ottakar's, have already disappeared from the high street, and independent stores are struggling after hundreds have closed over the past few years.Waterstone said Amazon was "insultingly and aggressively" telling consumers to go and browse at other book shops on the high street and "then come home and buy them from us … at a deep, deep discount"."And f**k Harrods or whoever it is for their trouble. More fool them. And more fool Waterstones. Go and browse through all the books there, in Waterstones, or Daunt's, or your lovely Topping stores, then put them back on the tables (fingered and soiled) and order those you want from us [Amazon]. Why pay more? Why worry about the consequences?"HM Revenue &amp; Customs (HMRC) is investigating the Amazon.co.uk tax arrangements. Amazon's tax affairs are also being investigated in the US, China, Germany, France, Japan and Luxembourg.Amazon declined to discuss its tax affairs, but said in a statement to the Guardian this week: "Amazon EU serves tens of millions of customers and sellers throughout Europe from multiple consumer websites in a number of languages, dispatching products to all 27 countries in the EU. We have a single European headquarters in Luxembourg with hundreds of employees to manage this complex operation."Richard Murphy, of the Tax Justice Network, pointed out that theScottish government has given Amazon £10.6m of subsidies to open a distribution centre in Dunfermline.James Heneage, the founder of the now-defunct Ottakar's chain,warned on Fridaythat slow-burning authors, like Patrick O'Brian and Joanna Trollope, might not have been able to build up their following without people being able to browse through their books in physical shops."If you are concerned about the sorts of books that get published you have to look to the future and the amount of value that businesses like Amazon can remove from the publishing business model," he said.James Daunt, the former banker who founded Daunt Books and was parachuted in to run Waterstones last year after it was sold to Russian billionaire Alexander Mamut, has described Amazon as a "ruthless, moneymaking devil"."If the bookshops go, they will never come back," he added.Neill Denny, the editor-in-chief of the Bookseller magazine, said the 1,400 remaining independents were "under massive pressure because of the proportion of heavy book buyers that have switched to e-readers [such as Amazon's Kindle]".Ebook sales have risen to account for about a fifth of the £1.9bn UK book market, while sales of print books are down 8% over the past year.Amazon, which was founded 18 years ago, had worldwide revenues of $48bn (£30bn) last year. Its market value has grown to $88.4bn – almost 10 times the market capitalisation of Marks &amp; Spencer.The company's empire now extends beyond books, CDs and DVDs to musical instruments, jewellery, food and even nappies and baby wipes.
Friday! Not much being released today, so you may have to save your money for Prototype 2 or Diablo III later this month. Got any other gaming plans for the weekend, though?
It is shocking thatAmazonis paying no UK tax on the profits from its massive sales here (Report, 5 April). Many other retail companies also pay ludicrously low amounts of corporation tax. Retail operations can't move overseas, like manufacturing industry can, so it is really just a lack of political will that stops Revenue and Customs from taking action. They could estimate what the real profits on UK sales are (as they sometimes do for small cash-based businesses), and tax the companies accordingly. The real question is why governments don't do this, since it would painlessly raise billions of pounds and be very popular. Could it be that both Labour and the Conservatives are afraid to upset big companies because they are too dependent on corporate donations?Richard MountfordHildenborough, Kent• While your readers are digesting the obscurities of Amazon's tax affairs, they may like to contemplate that Amazon obliges most publishers, especially the smaller ones, to let them have 60% discount on the proposed publisher's retail price. Thus, for a £20 book, the publisher, with all of its expenses, will get only £8, out of which the author will generally receive 80p. There's good business for you. No wonder proper bookshops close.John RichardsonLondon• So, Britain's largest online retailer paid nothing on its profits last year. This gives new meaning to its parent company's slogan "… And you're done".Murray WorthySenior economic justice campaigner,War&nbsp;on Want
The first surprising thing aboutGoogle Glassesis that anybody thinks this is a new idea (just have a look at thishistory of mobile augmented reality).Steve Mann, a Canadian known as the father of wearable computing, has been developing systems since the 1980s with obvious industrial, medical and military applications. One example is theBattlefield Augmented Reality System, where having information overlayed on your view of the world could be a matter of life and death.The second surprising thing is that we aren't all wearing computerised glasses already. In a 2001 Guardian article titled"From man to borg – is this the future?", I quoted a wearable computers website claim that "large scale acceptance of wearables in the general consumer market will surge in about 2005. By 2015, wearables will have virtually eliminated desktop, laptop, and handheld solutions altogether". That turned out to be over-optimistic.Early users of wearable computers with head-mounted displays considered it a triumph if people didn't cross the street to avoid them. If they needed to carry a GPS unit, an accelerometer and a video camera as well as a computer, it was a rucksack of extra baggage.Today, however, most of us carry a mobile internet computer terminal that packs all of these capabilities into one light, pocketable device. It's called a smartphone.The one thing we don't have is the head-mounted display, which is the problem Google Glasses (which take signals from a Google Android smartphone) can solve.But Google is just one of hundreds of companies working on similar ideas. Interestingly, Apple wasapplying for patents on head-mounted displays in 2008, and later it hired wearable computing veteranRich DeVaul. So your iGlasses may be coming.The tricky questions are whether anyone actually wants a head-mounted display. If you were a soldier, for example, you would want to know if there were snipers hiding behind a wall, and if you could bring in a drone (pilotless aircraft) to fire at them. As a pedestrian crossing the street, the sudden appearance of a special offer from a nearby carpet retailer might have less happy consequences (since this is Google, you can bet ads are part of the master plan).There's a much simpler way to do augmented reality: just hold up your phone and turn on the camera. Plenty of apps already do that, and here are40 of the best.Google's glasses rely on information fetched from the internet but there's no reason why extra data cannot be provided by government buildings, pubs, bus stops, advertisement hoardings and other street features that can talk to most smartphones by a variety of means – Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, RFID (radio frequency identification) chips, NFC (near field communications) etc – to createsmart places.In the future, "augmented reality" is going to meet an augmented reality, as the virtual and physical worlds combine. This is, inescapably, the way technology is going. Whether Google Glasses will be part of that future remains to be seen.
In 2012, smartphone and tablet apps are at the heart of disruption across the media and entertainment industries. Which sounds like a grandiose claim, but the evidence is there to back it up. In fact, the last 24 hours alone provide a good snapshot of it.It's happening in the publishing world. Start withNext Issue Media, which is a joint venture between US magazine publishers Condé Nast, Hearst, Meredith, News Corp. and Time Inc.The company has released an Android tablet app called Next Issue offering 32 digital magazines from its founders, including Elle, Time, Vanity Fair and Sports Illustrated.They're available as standalone-issue purchases and individual magazine subscriptions, but the most disruptive element is the all-you-can-read subscription: $9.99 a month to get all of the bi-weekly and monthly mags, and $14.99 a month for that plus all the weekly ones.It's the equivalent of Spotify or Netflix for digital magazines. An iPad version will be submitted to Apple "in the coming weeks", but its disruptive potential for that company's own Newsstand could lead to some approval fun and frolics.Also in publishing, two of the more high-profile news aggregation apps, Zite and Pulse, have announced new partnerships with publishers to make the latter's content available within their apps.Zitelaunched a Publisher Programto provide sites and publications with their own sections on its iOS and Android apps, starting with Bleacher Report, CNN, The Daily Beast, FOX Sports, HLNtv, The Huffington Post, Motley Fool, The Next Web and VentureBeat.Rival Pulse has alsoexpanded its dealwith magazine publisher Bonnier, adding 20 of its titles' content to its aggregation app, following a deal signed way back in July 2011 for its Popular Science title.Apps like Zite and Pulse, along with Flipboard, FLUD and others have sometimes been seen as disruptive in the wrong way by publishers, concerned at the possible impact of content-scraping on their advertising revenues. Partnerships like these show there is scope for the two sides to work together.Meanwhile, Marvel Comics has just unveiled a new digital comic-book format,Marvel Infinite, which involves comics hand-drawn specifically with full-screen tablet reading in mind – as opposed to simply digitising a print comic. The first to get the treatment is Avengers vs. X-Men #1, within the Marvel Comics app.Spotify's app is a key reason for subscribing to its Premium serviceSpotify subscriptionsApps disruption is happening in the music industry too. The last 24 hours has seen Spotify fending off suggestionsin the New York Postthat the pace at which it's signing up paying subscribers in the US has been disappointing for labels.There were figures to go with this too: 3m Spotify users in the US since its launch in July 2011, with 600,000 of them now paying subscribers.An alternative way of looking at it, though, is that Spotify has persuaded 600,000 people in the US to pay up to $9.99 a month for a streaming music service just nine months after launching there – by contrast its biggest US rival Rhapsody took 10 years to reach 1m subscribers.The disruptive apps element is that if the US matches Spotify's subscriber-splits elsewhere in the world, 85% of its paying users are on the $9.99 tier required to use its mobile apps.Meanwhile, Propellerhead Software's new appFigureis an example of a different kind of music disruption: one that's bringing the technology previously seen in professional tools like the same company's ReBirthto the general public.It's one of a number of apps democratising music creation – although just to be clear, I'm not saying it's turning any iPhone owner into Richie Hawtin or the Chemical Brothers. Instead, it's bringing the joy of music creation to people who aren't professional musicians – much like what Instagram is doing to photography.Talking of which... The last 24 hours has also seen Instagramnotch up more than 1m downloadsfor its Android app in its first day on Google's Play store.National Geographic's latest app is a new route to its audienceCord cutters growingApps disruption is happening in the TV and film industries too. Again, just in the last 24 hours there have been apps with new ways for Discovery Channel and National Geographic to get their content to people:Discovery NewsandNational Geographic Dailyfor iPhone and iPad respectively.A story that's more high-profile in the US than in the UK (for now) is cord-cutting: people cancelling their cable TV accounts because they're getting their TV elsewhere – particularly services like Netflix and Hulu, although also BitTorrent (in the UK, iPlayer, Sky Go and other catch-up services would figure in this conversation too).A new report calledThe Battle for the North American Couch Potatoby Convergence Consulting claims that more than 2.65m Americans cut their cords between 2008 and 2011, with more than 1m doing it in 2011, and 3.6m expected to in 2012.As with Spotify, apps aren't the only reason for cord-cutting, but they're a key part of the business models of the companies that are fuelling the trend. But apps are also one of the key weapons cable providers and TV networks are using to persuade people to keep their cords: apps providing access to TV channels around the house (or even outside) as part of their subscriptions.Meanwhile, there is more disruption in the TV world from developments in second-screen companion apps for popular shows.Brand new in the last day arean appfor Jennifer Lopez-fronted Latin American talent show ¡Q'VIVA! The Chosen that synchronises social feeds, photos and other content with the live show; and alsoan iPad appfor drama series Titanic that helps viewers dig more into the real-life story of the ship and its surviving passengers.I was at the MIPTV conference in Cannes this week, and one of the most interesting strands of discussion focused on an upcoming battle for control of the second screen between broadcasters, producers, cable/satellite providers, hardware firms and technology firms like Zeebox, Shazam, GetGlue, Miso, Yahoo-owned IntoNow.More disruption. And as I published this article, Shazam announced that all the episodes remaining in the US American Idol show will be taggable using its app...Ice Age is the subject for a new freemium gameFreemium debateIt's happening in games too: Zynga revealed that its recently-acquired Draw Something game is nowpast the 50m downloads milestone– that's 50m since the start of February when it launched, and 15m downloads added in a couple of weeks since its developer OMGPOP was bought for $180m.Also brand new: Children's film franchise Ice Age has beenturned into a freemium iOS gameby publisher Gameloft, which has the potential to reignite the debate around in-app purchases in games aimed at kids.Should parents be more on top of their iOS device settings to ensure their children aren't blowing their monthly budget on virtual items, or should publishers be thinking hard about whether a "treasure chest" of virtual coins costing £69.99 has any place in a game based on a film like Ice Age?Elsewhere, a startup called The Tap Lab hasraised $550,000to make location-based mobile games, with its investors including Harmonix co-founders Alex Rigopoulos and Eran Egozy, while another startup called PerBlu has launched its second massively multiplayer location RPG,Parallel Mafia.Ads evolutionAlso in the last 24 hours, information has emerged aboutSamsung launching its own mobile advertising network, Apple hasadded Twitter functionalityto its own iAd platform,BicandPurinahave become the latest brands to launch marketing apps, and Google has taken the wrappers off its long-rumoured augmented reality glasses project.The key point here is that all this happened – or at least the news broke – in the last 24 hours. If I'd expanded this snapshot to be the last week, there'd be stories like Open Universitysigning up 1m subscriberson iTunes U, Rovio announcing a52-episode Angry Birds TV series, Outfit7's Talking Friends appspassing 360m downloads, mobile ad network Millennial Mediabeing valued at $2bnafter its IPO; figures showing US digital magazine circulationincreased by 125%in the second half of 2011; Augmented reality startup Layaradding videoto its app; Disneysigning upto make mobile social games based on its characters with Japanese publisher DeNA...Hopefully you get the idea. This snapshot isn't some kind of flag-waving attempt to claim apps are revolutionising all media. It's more pointing out that wherever you find disruptive and innovative startups and business models across the media industries, apps won't be far from the action.
