What is Codecademy?Codecademywas set up by two friends who wanted to learn to code, but were disappointed with existing materials. The website starts by presuming no prior knowledge at all, and lets you work through small exercises, slowly growing in complexity. In the spirit of the web, it's free, and some of the exercises were created by volunteers.What will I be learning?Codecademy teaches JavaScript – a language commonly used to create interactive elements in websites. Starting with addition, you work through the elements of the language, eventually allowing you to write a Blackjack game. Lessons are grouped into sections, each of which has a Q&amp;A forum where users discuss the exercises. They plan on adding lessons for Ruby, Python, HTML and CSS in the near future. These are all freely licensed languages that can be used to create things at no cost, and underpin much of the internet as we know it today.Who is it for?It's aimed at absolute beginners, so if you don't know anything, but would like to, then it's for you. The fundamentals of programming are the same across many languages, so even if you aren't interested in learning JavaScript specifically, Codecademy is a good introduction to the world of code. People working in technology may also find it useful as a way of picking up a new language.What makes it interesting?Codecademy is one of the pioneers of "gamification" – the concept of encouraging online interaction through awards, scoring, and other game-like behaviour. There are badges for completing increasing amounts of exercises, as well as for specific challenges. If you wish to brag about your new-found programming prowess you can share these trophies on Facebook and Twitter.What's good and bad about it?Codecademy gets you writing code from the start. Much like learning a foreign language, the best way to absorb what you are being taught is to practise, to get it wrong, and then to then learn from your mistakes. But by focusing on doing things rather than understanding what you are doing, the underlying fundamentals of what is going on are largely glossed over. If you are serious about picking up programming, it is likely you will want to use Codecademy alongside other resources.Max Harlow and Lindsey Dew,software developers at the Guardian and Observer• This article was corrected on Monday 5 March 2012 to change references to Codeacademy and Java.
What's all the buzz aroundPinterest? The new social network has been making waves in the UK with a reported 200,000 unique monthly users (already 12m in the US). The site allows you to "pin" any image from the web on to a virtual pinboard – curating online moodboards around themes and interests – with early-adopters setting the trend in the home decor, fashion, food, weddings and craft categories. So far it's been pretty popular with women (the site has the feel ofGood Housekeepingfrom the 80s) and the cleverest pinners'  boards  inspire and aspire to perfection.Also visitpinnerstofollow.comfor a complete guideCRAFTEtsyFor all your crafty goodness – boards from this marketplace range from DIY projects to gift ideas, and there's one for stationery addicts to follow. Prolific pinnerNic Adlershowcases yarnbombing and Scottish crocheterEmma Lambhas some great colour palettes.FOODWhole Foods MarketQuick-fix dinner inspiration, cheeseboards, and home-cooking gadget porn – retailer Whole Foods Market is creatively exploring the social network with mouthwatering pins for all foodies.WEDDINGSStyle Me PrettyHair designs, lingerie, shoes and food – blog founder Abby Larson's boards are the number one place to help you get organised and make those difficult decisions in the lead up to the big day. Preferable to wedding magazines.TECHMashableDigital culture news site Mashable is pushing the boat out with pinboards on technology. Follow the infographics board to keep up to date on social media trends and figures. And you can followBuzzFeedfor all your LOLZ.FASHIONeat. sleep. wear.Kimberly Pesch has quickly risen to be a top style blogger to follow on Pinterest, but with fashion housesMichael KorsandNina Garciasigning up to showcase catwalk trends more will soon follow.HOME DECORApartment therapyGuardian columnist Sali Hughes described Pinterest as like having a nose around someone's home. For all the curtain-twitchers out there, this one from the well-established homes blog Apartment Therapy is for you.
The police or security services supplied information to a blacklist funded by the country's major construction firms that has kept thousands of people out of work over the past three decades.The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) has revealed that records that could only have come from the police or MI5 have been discovered in a vast database of files held on 3,200 victims who were deemed leftwing or troublesome.The files were collected by the Consulting Association, a clandestine organisation funded by major names in the construction industry.Its database was seized nearly three years ago, but the extraordinary nature of the information held has only now emerged, following an employment tribunal for one of the victims, Dave Smith, a 46-year-old engineer who had a 36-page file against his name and was victimised repeatedly for highlighting safety hazards on sites, including the presence of asbestos.David Clancy, investigations manager at the ICO, told the central London tribunal adjudicating on Smith's claims against construction giant Carillion that "there is information on the Consulting Association files that I believe could only be supplied by the police or the security&nbsp;services".Speaking to theObserver, Clancy added: "The information was so specific and it contained in effect operational information that wouldn't have formed anything other than a police record."The scandal will be thrown open to further public exposure in the coming months as a class action by 100 victims against at least 39 companies is set to be pursued in the high court by Hugh Tomlinson QC, currently counsel for several of the phone-hacking claimants. The revelations will inevitably raise fresh questions about the probity of the police in a week in which its relationship with major news corporations, and News International in particular, has come under sharp focus. Last week the Leveson inquiry heard that the police were investigating a "network of corrupt officials" as part of their inquiries into phone hacking and police corruption.Clancy said he was unable further to trace the specific sources of the information held in the Consulting Association files because it touched on individuals living across the country and stretched over three decades.He added that the relationship between the Consulting Association and the police and security services appeared to have been nurtured when the organisation went under an earlier guise as the Economic League, at a time when the state was keen to liaise with major building firms to discover as much as it could about Irish construction workers amid the threat of IRA terrorism.John McDonnell MP, who first raised the issue of blacklisting a decade ago, said he would demand a debate in parliament on what he described as collusion. "I am outraged at the systematic abuse of people's rights. This has destroyed people's lives, broken up families, ensured that people have not been able to earn a living. It has devastated people year after year, and nobody has listened to us. No one has been willing to believe the extent to which there has been collusion between police, security services and companies. It is all about the ability of companies to exploit workers and destroy anybody who stands up against them."The existence of the secret blacklist was first exposed in 2009, when ICO investigators from the Information Commissioner's Office raided an unassuming office in Droitwich, Worcestershire.The investigators uncovered an extensive database that was used by construction firms to vet workers they deemed to be trade unionists and troublesome – usually trade unionists. More than 40 construction firms, including Balfour Beatty and Sir Robert McAlpine, had been funding the confidential database, which recorded workers' trade union activities and conduct at work.The Consulting Association was closed down and a 66-year-old private investigator, Ian Kerr, was fined £5,000 for administering the database, although the construction firms escaped prosecution. At Smith's tribunal, Carillion admitted that two of its subsidiaries covertly supplied information to the database to "penalise" Smith for being a trade unionist, even though he had "reasonably brought health and safety concerns to their attention". However, Smith lost his claim for £175,000 in lost income because he worked through an agency and was not directly employed by Carillion.A spokesman for the Independent Police Complaints Commission said it had not yet received a complaint from the victims or the ICO.
Dear TomThe rise of the internet, from obscurity to ubiquity in the course of a few decades, has had profound effects on our society and on us as individuals. No one could have predicted how significant it would become, and no one can predict with any certainty how it will develop.This is true of the underlying technologies, but it is equally and, arguably more importantly, true of the changes that the internet has on how we communicate and interact with each other. It has brought us an overwhelming range of benefits, providing a universal tool to communicate, to organise our lives and to access entertainment.What concerns me most is that this tool brings with it risks that we simply haven't grasped. Social networks encourage us to share every aspect of our lives with our friends, but, by providing that service, those networks see everything that we share, and use that information to categorise, profile and predict us. These services aren't "free" – we pay for them with our personal data, and the profits are huge.It could be argued, and often is by the heads of large technology companies, that privacy is dead and that the benefits of social networks and similar services easily outweigh the perceived loss of privacy. I would argue that we do not yet fully understand the power of the data we have shared, and that by unwittingly giving this information to Google, Facebook and others we are shaping the future of our society in ways we cannot predict.For the entirety of human history, we have operated on small scales and in relative anonymity. Our words are heard by the few people close to us and most are quickly forgotten. We walk down the street without passers-by knowing our names or history. The internet has started to change that. Our words and actions can easily be shared with billions of people around the globe and archived indefinitely. The details of our lives can be found simply by typing our name into Google.We need to understand the risks of this type of technology so that we can fully gain its benefits. We need protections, both technical and legal, so that a small mistake cannot devastate our lives. We also need education to help us function in a world where privacy is no longer the natural state of being.Dear JossI think you've hit the nail on the head when you write that, by sharing data, we are shaping the future of our society in ways that cannot be predicted. How, then, can we mitigate against the worst consequences of trends we can scarcely envisage?If recent economic history suggests anything, it's that humans are poor at risk assessment. Can we hope to comprehend these risks until at least some of us have experienced them in their worst form? Quite possibly not – not least because of the intuition- defying divide between the daily delights of social networking and its potential repercussions in the form of snooping, stalking, identity theft, state surveillance and much else besides.While it's difficult to disagree with your call for education and effective protections, I find myself worrying about another set of unintended consequences behind this warning: that we risk polarising a vital debate into paralysis, rather than facing up to the knotty human issues feeding it.I'm not sure how helpful it is, for example, to lump the perspectives of most large technology companies together under the banner "privacy is dead". Clearly, there's a lot of money being made today – and much of it with breathtaking cynicism – by extracting as much personal information as possible from the eager and the unwitting, as well as from the eager and well-informed. Facebook's initial public offering is barely the beginning and it will be both alarming and fascinating to see how its heft continues to grow.It's also increasingly clear, however, that granting and respecting privacy of various kinds is becoming a vital part of most business strategies reliant on users' goodwill, attention and effort – for all its faults, Google placed particular emphasis on this in creating Google+ – and that many of the most worrying trends taking place across the digital world are born more from corporate ignorance than malice.This doesn't excuse ignorance or cynicism. But I do worry that much of the "us" and "them" attitude directed towards tech companies may be hitting the wrong targets, and that privacy itself risks becoming a bugbear rather than a rallying call.Those perpetrating both present and potential crimes and abuses – whether they're members of a corporation, the criminal underworld, or a national government – must be stopped, and the techniques they deploy identified and disabled. But the "we" who are truly in this together encompasses most of the companies it's tempting to vilify and the elected officials it's easy to pillory as ignorant. Without them, there will be no such thing as real progress.Dear TomThe balance between privacy and innovation is crucial to this debate and I wouldn't want to suggest we treat privacy as anything more than one among several fundamental human rights.As you've noted, the pleasures of social networking are real and tangible whereas the privacy risks tend to seem far away. From a corporate perspective the profits are equally real, and the risks of privacy violations remain  as far away. I think that this is why we are seeing, for example with Google's Street View as well as its recent privacy policy changes, a tactic of asking forgiveness rather than permission.I very much agree that treating companies, and indeed our governments, as closed entities that we must fight every inch of the way is not productive. It is certainly worth praising Google for the wide promotion of its new privacy policy, even while we can criticise the policy itself. Engagement, and Google is particularly active in engaging researchers and activists, is vital.The risks, however, aren't entirely unknown. Examples of people who have had sensitive information revealed about, for example, their sexuality are the more familiar stories. We should also be concerned about our profiles becoming the conflated with our "real" identity: Google already presents us with search results that it believes we want and so hides from us views or opinions with which we may disagree. Without being overly alarmist, this raises fundamental issues concerning our individuality, personal development and autonomy; not in the least through our ability to present the face we wish to present in different social contexts.Can we mitigate these risks without seeing them? I think we can try. If we drive a car with our eyes shut and foot flat on the accelerator then we will not see the wall before we hit it; we need to open our eyes, and I would also like a hand on the steering wheel – and preferably not one that's invisible.Dear JossThe distinction you draw between asking for forgiveness and seeking permission seems a very useful one – and reminds me of that all-too-familiar political rigmarole of the disgraced official's public "apology", where ostentatious contrition is somehow supposed to substitute for facing consequences or making amends.What, then, are the best mechanisms for making real consequences and amends possible in the areas we're talking about?I'm sure we agree that driving flat out with both eyes shut isn't a recipe for progress. But I remain less sure whose hands should be grasping the steering wheel and who gets to apply the brakes. This is especially true when it comes to those overlapping issues you identify: our ability to present ourselves to the world in ways we control and to control how the world is presented to us in turn.In each case I'm reminded of a phrase that American legal scholar Cass Sunstein used in his 2009 bookOn Rumours. He argued that the dissemination of false or harmful materials via open technologies should be counterbalanced by a legal "chilling effect", making it easier to issue takedown notices and hold service operators responsible for content.Versions of this question have cropped up again and again, from the Stop Online Piracy Act to the net neutrality debate. And what interests me more than the rights or wrongs of such proposals (although I think we'd largely agree about these) is the massive, intractable scale of the impasse they seem to be circling.Those with most to hide – from brave revolutionaries to sinister government cronies – are, I think, already well aware that true privacy means having no digital records at all. For the rest of us, though, the question is whether preserving the unprecedented openness of a decentralised global network is compatible with putting truly effective mechanisms in place for chilling its excesses.This may well be unanswerable. But in a sense we already face a miniature version of this question every day in the services we choose to use, and what we entrust them with. Should we be flocking towards the tidy, secure walled gardens of media ecosystems like Apple's – or running as fast as we can in the opposite direction?Dear TomI believe that the fewer enforced restrictions on individual expression the better; that the true triumph of the internet is as an open platform for endless creativity. My hope is for means to limit the harm to individuals that comes from exploiting the inherent inspectability that the internet brings.I'm aware of the apparent paradox here: I'm asking for the internet to be open and free for individuals, but restricted for corporations. Let me instead argue that those who by offering us services place themselves in a position of power over us be required to exercise it with responsibility.Chilling effects are, of course, a powerful tool, the results of which we experience every day. Unfortunately, this form of legal approach massively favours large corporations that have the resources to wage endless legal battles and, in practice, often use it to "chill" creativity and freedom of expression. (I would advise anyone to look into chillingeffects.org, which documents the phenomenon.)I don't have a simple answer, and I don't believe that one exists; we need to find a subtle balance of technology, law, consumer pressure and individual education; and we need it at a global level. We need to act beforehand, because we can't take back data once it is released. We will get things wrong, of course, but we need to take a holistic and long-term look at how we can affect the technologies that, in turn, affect us. We would do well to look at the development of the environmental movement, which has laid the groundwork for this kind of debate. We need to consider proactive means to protect the information environment that we have created from long-term externalities that are not immediately apparent.As to the services that we choose to use, walled gardens are initially convenient and comfortable; what terrifies me is the extent to which they lead us to stop thinking beyond the walls, and to conform to the safe options that they present. I prefer the freedom and complexity of open services, without walls or gates, that do not ask who I am and do not ask me to stay the same.Dear JossThank you for your considered response – and for your neat articulation of the tension between individual freedom and corporate responsibility.Another way of putting this, perhaps, is that in the internet we possess an unprecedentedly democratic set of tools which also gifts unprecedented power to those controlling its infrastructure.There is, for me, more thus far to celebrate than there is to mourn in the changes these tools have brought. But you're surely right to highlight the difficulty of acting in advance across many interlocked fields to safeguard against as-yet-indeterminate perils.Your example of the environmental movement laying the groundwork for this debate also seems almost too apt, in that it suggests how little effective action tends collectively to be taken by humanity when a problem – however menacing – is nebulous.As a writer, I'd like nothing better than for eloquent explanations and expert insights to create an entirely persuasive movement anatomising technology's opportunities and perils.I can't help feeling, though, that words will never be enough; and that the most necessary counterpoint to the resources corporations and governments possess remains that one field where weight of numbers truly counts, direct action.Here, from Occupy and UK Uncut to the Arab spring, the present is richly stocked with role models and warnings: with devolved, ideologically charged movements embodying many of those virtues you set out.There's surely hope in this notion of privacy defended by avowedly public action – and safeguarded by those open, evolving digital services you advocate. But only if those protesting are ultimately able to find common cause with those wielding other forms of power.■Joss Wright is a research fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute, Oxford University, studying anonymous communications, privacy-enhancing technologies and online censorship.■Tom Chatfield is a writer and commentator on digital culture. His latest book, How to Thrive in a Digital Age (Macmillan), is due out in May.IN NUMBERSFacebook$80-100bn(projected initial public offering, 2012)Twitter$7.7bn(projected based on share value)LinkedIn$4.4bnUSER BEWAREGoogle automatically scans all emails to and from Gmail to target adverts.And the company, whose services include Docs, YouTube, Blogger, Plus and more, now combines all its services into a single profile of you.Many Facebook apps have been shown to read and share your details with their authors.Smartphone apps for Facebook, Twitter and others have been found reading text messages and address books.iPhones were shown last year to  be frequently reporting the user's geographical location.NOT SO ANONYMOUSIn 2001, a researcher presented the governor of Massachusetts with his personal medical records 'reidentified' from anonymously released data.AOL released an anonymous search dataset in 2006. New York Times  journalists identified one individual through name and location clues, revealing her entire search history.In 2008, NetFlix released its user rating history. Researchers were able to link individuals to their ratings, revealing their history of movie watching for the past three years.
Asura's Wrath, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360General Asura is an ancient demigod and one of eight leaders of the purge of the Gohma, a species of demon that's invaded Earth. When he's framed for the emperor's murder he must fight to clear his name – not in the conventional legal sense, but by physically destroying his accusers. The sci-fi-meets-melodramatic-fantasy starts early, with Asura attacking the first boss – a planet-sized beast – with his fists, spontaneously sprouting six new arms for the occasion, thereby giving an accurate impression of the game's sense of scale as well as its level of general lunacy. It's all about the fighting, and ground–level battles are frequently interrupted by much larger ones, with Asura ploughing bodily through office block-sized opponents in his pursuit of angry justice. Delivered in TV-style episodes, some of which require no more interaction than a stray joystick or button press, Asura's Wrath is an unusual and occasionally exhilarating interactive anime with a powerful taste for the surreal.Out Fri, Capcom, £39.99SSX, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360SSXIn line with many Electronic Arts games, snowboarding mainstay SSX loves to whoop it up. Excitable voiceovers, sparkly trails as you pull off big tricks, vertical drops that would be terrifying in a parachute and scores that comfortably head into the tens of millions (once you've got the hang of stringing tricks together), it's all part of  EA's established extreme sports doctrine. Score-led races and trick courses are joined by Deadly Descents – levels so dangerous your character needs to carry an ice axe to avoid plunging into ravines, or wear body armour to live through jarring sets of collisions with scenery. Heli-skiing the world, from Patagonia to the Himalayas, using a wingsuit for moments of blissful flight sounds alluring. Unfortunately, for all its skyscraping tricks and the social competition encouraged by RiderNet, riding your snowboard lacks nuance and tactility. This makes the game a curiously bland experience, despite the game's habit of hurling you off multiple 1,000ft cliffs, occasionally pursued by avalanches.Electronic Arts, £39.99Games newsLego Minecraft MicroworldAlso out this week isFinal Fantasy Tactics: War Of The Lionsfor iOS, bringing more than a hundred hours of turn–based strategic gaming joy to iPad, the format for which it was always unknowingly destined …Mario Party 9on Wii disgraces the world's foremost gaming mascot to a lesser degree than previous outings …The superbly unhingedDriver: San Franciscois released on PS3 and Xbox 360 in a budget-priced platinum edition, letting a wider audience find out what sort of mischief they'd get up to if you could take control of any car in San Francisco at any time …Silent Hill HD Collection(PS3, Xbox 360) gets you back in touch with everyone's favourite pyramid–headed monster …Finally, the announcement ofLego Minecraft Microworldis generating considerable excitement, uniting the infinitely modifiable virtual world of Minecraft with its real world counterpart.
A child runs through a field of sunflowers; in her hand, "flying", is a toy spaceship. The camera zooms in; the craft is real, above a futuristic cityscape. Then, a beam of red from above cuts through the ship like it's plastic. Its source: an alien vessel, descending menacingly …The trailer looks every part the sci-fi sensation of this summer. But this isn't a movie coming to your local multiplex – at least not this year. It's a cinematic preview of Mass Effect 3, the final instalment of the videogame trilogy that's moved from cult status to commercial heavyweight. Developed by Canadian company BioWare, ME3 delivers a detailed universe, populated with well-rounded characters and a multitude of alien races. It is to videogames what the 2004 reboot ofBattlestar Galacticawas to TV: an engrossing experience weaving myriad plotlines into a narrative that reaches beyond sci-fi convention.ME3's lead writer, Mac Walters, explains how quiet words can resonate greater than dramatic actions: "We have all of these fantastic characters participating in an epic overall story that spans galaxies but every one of them has these personal moments which will really connect to the audience. If the characters are going through something the player has personal experience of, then it's going to hold an appeal regardless of what genre it's placed in. It's unlikely that anyone has participated in intergalactic war, but many players will know what it's like to lose a loved one."Chicago-based games journalist Andrew Hayward argues that ME's strength is its dedication to detail. "We have no shortage of games that utilise blazingly intense set-pieces to build tension and momentum, but fewer titles that really make you feel a part of the universe rather than just an observer of events. Mass Effect embraces both agendas with great success, and your choices have real weight in shaping the outcome."It's these choices that make the series different, shaping each game to each player. The selection of option A over B can affect the characters you'll find accompanying Commander Shepard on his (or her – Shepard can be played as either sex) ongoing missions if you choose to load the data from your previous games. In ME1, a heavy scenario necessitates a life-or-death choice between crew members, and whoever's left behind is wiped from ME1 and ME2. Come the climax of ME2, Shepard's entire crew can be annihilated, their fates dependent on the right (or wrong) choices earlier in the game. Sounds like a recipe for continuity disaster."We have to be hyper-aware of events in each individual's previous game," says Walters. "We had a paragraph written on what would happen in ME3 when finishing up ME1; the story was straightforward, in a sense. But still, this game took months of planning to get a handle on every different permutation."'The central theme – survival at any cost – was established early, but working out all of the various permutations took a great deal of work' – Mac WaltersThat "straightforward" story is, naturally, anything but. Nutshell: every 50,000 years or so an ancient race of biomechanical giants (Reapers) activate and eradicate the universe of intelligent life, effectively pressing the reset button. Prior to ME3 Shepard has stalled them, but they remain operational. "We knew that them returning, specifically to our galaxy and Earth, gave us a fixed point in the future to work towards," says Walters, "but taking all of those loose threads and bringing them together took months of planning. The central theme – survival at any cost – was established early, but working out all of the various permutations took a great deal of work."The investment has been worth it. ME2's average score onMetacriticstands at 96% for Xbox 360, and sales of the two games to date stand at around 7m. The hype seems enough to push that over the 10m mark in 2012, and could see the series spin into further media.High-spec trailers aside, the ME series' commitment to quality is confirmed by some savvy casting –Martin Sheenas secretive pro-humanist the Illusive Man; Seth Green as Joker, the wise-cracking pilot of the Normandy – and excellent graphical and audio design. The latter is complemented on ME3 by a score from Clint Mansell, the man behind movie soundtracks for Black Swan, Moon and The Wrestler. Speaking about his ME3 commission in 2011, he said: "With [this game], you're like a DJ; you've a holding pattern, and then there's a big explosion when the score has to kick in. You have to figure out an overall symphony, but break it down into components. You can bring the pain, when required."And ME3 certainly does bring the pain. But there's no way anyone would mistake this for an out-and-out shooter. "Players develop a unique connection to their own personal tale in Mass Effect," says Hayward, who's less certain that the series should transfer to cinema screens. "Fans won't welcome a singular narrative that treads on their own experiences.""Videogames and movies are merging,"James Camerontold CNN in 2011. And, despite some reservations, Mass Effect's big-screen future seems mapped –out – Legendary Pictures acquired the rights in 2010 – but Walters confirms BioWare aren't prepared to let it become another awful videogame adaptation. What isn't so clear is how the final entry in this trilogy progresses from the Reapers' assault of Earth to … Well, that would be telling. But get sucked into Shepard's story of tough choices and multiple endings and there'll certainly be no suntan for you this summer.
Famously from Swindon? Desmond Morris, theManwatchingman;Diana Dors,Melinda Messenger,Billie Piper, all famously watched by men. ExplorerDavid Hempleman-Adams, a real man;Mark Lamarrwith the hair:James Dysonwith the air; 70s prog rockersSupertramp;Nick Hewer, the one who makes the cat's arse faces on The Apprentice; and the&nbsp;Honda Civic. I know it's Japanese, but they're made in Swindon, OK? Have been for nearly 20 years.Desmond Morris might have something to say about the Civic's evolution, from the first generation cheap little hatchback that appeared in the early 70s (round about the same time as Supertramp were establishing themselves) to today's much bigger, much more sophisticated model.Actually, I think this one – the ninth generation – is a step backwards in the looks department. The outgoing model has a neatness and a design cohesion of which Dyson would approve, plus an adventurousness (triangular exhausts!) DH-A might appreciate. This one is less successful, more of a mess. It combines the curves of Dors, Messenger and Piper with the hard edges of Lamarr… It's time to drop this silly Swindon thing right now, and how would I shoehorn Nick Hewer in there, anyway? Basically, it's uglier than its predecessor.It is almost certainly a better car, though. It's more stable, and more rigid. More aerodynamic, too, which, together with a stop/start system and an Eco button (which restricts both the throttle and the air conditioning), means it's easier on your pocket, your planet and your conscience. Actually no one's quite perfected the stop/start thing yet. Sometimes they switch off, other times they don't. And this one's no different. More work needed there, car manufacturers.To drive the new Civic is nice – precise and agile without being thrilling. Inside, there's more room in the back, and it's clearer what to do in the front. The facia is calmer, less wacky and space-aged. It makes more sense, though it's less fun.That's it! It's a sensible car, not a fun car. So who is it for? It's for a man in his mid- to late 60s, a pragmatist not a risk-taker, someone who understands value and good quality and who is led by his head not his heart. Got it, it's a car for Nick Hewer! It was hard, but I got him in in the end. Just.Oh, my research reveals that Hewer has an old Jeep, a Citroën Dyane and&nbsp;a tractor – not sensible vehicles at all. I was wrong about Nick, he's all heart. So who is the new Civic for? I don't know, someone else from Swindon, some one who works – who used to work – for the council.Honda Civic 1.8 i-VTEC EX GT 5-Door ManualPriceFrom £26,885Top speed134mphAcceleration0-62 in 9.6 secondsAverage consumption46.3mpgCO2 emissions145g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating3/10
Block 19.13am:And we're back. It's the fourth and final day of TED2012 and it's been quite a ride.We've had multiverses, miracle new fuels, swarming robots, musical theatre about climate change, and coming up any moment now, a humanoid on stage.First though, I have to mention that leaving my motel this morning, which, how can I say it, is not one of Long Beach's finest hotels, what with a motel, as in short for a motor court hotel, and also checking out of his room, was a well-known [name redacted]* multi-billionaire. I'm not sure what this says, exactly. I'm just passing it on ...(*TED rules are that I can't report on the attendees' names...)Anyway,Bill Nye, Science Guy, has kicked things off, but a female materials scientist who looks like a bit like the African American version of Sigourney Weaver in her Alien days has just strode onto stage with a blow-torch. This could be good.Block 29.43am:It'sAinissa Ramirezwho's billed as a "science evangelist". She's actually an associate professor of engineering at Yale and she's the second ultra-cool kick-ass female engineer of the week. On Wednesday, we hadRegina Dugan, the head of DARPA, and now there's Ainissa. Who's approaching her TED talk not unlike how Sigourney might approach a threatening alien life form.She's a material scientist and there's a problem ahead: the rare earth elements in your cellphone are exactly that, rare. "But this should be our Sputnik moment," she says. But to solve it, we need to nurture the next generation of scientists.We have to teach kids that it's okay to fail. And we do not teach to test. We do NOT teach to test."It was a TV show that Ramirez watched as a child that inspired her to study science. "Because I saw a black girl doing science, that show is why I'm a scientist today.""There's no reason why a little girl in an inner city shouldn't become a scientist. But there's things that we can do. We can rid of t-shirts, for example, that say 'Allergic to algebra'. That is not helpful."Yeah. Stick it to them, Ramirez. Get your flamethrower out.Block 39.52am:Yes! This is cooool. There's a boy on stage beatboxing into a cockroach. Yes, really, Greg Gage of an outfit called Backyard Brains has got a boy to beabox into a microphone, the electric current from which, he's fed into a cockroach's leg. And the leg is dancing! Gage runs an outfit called Backyard Brains who teaches neuroscience to kids...with cockroaches.Block 49.58am:It's called "The Classroom" this session and there's 300 schoolchildren in the audience, andChris Anderson, the head of TED, has just come on stage to launch the latest TED initiative:TED Ed, or TED for kids. Tagline: "Lessons worth sharing".It's TED's answer to the video education revolution, rather on the lines of theKhan Academy.Sal Khan spoke at TED last year, and was one of the hits of the conference - he's made thousands of videos explaining everything from snowflake fractals to Cartesian co-ordinates.Anyway, the TED Ed idea is to pair teachers with animators. They're asking teachers from all over the world to send them their best lessons. Which they will then turn into cartoons."We know that technological process accerates," says Anderson. "And there's the crazy possibility that unanswered questions pull us forward. So please: stay curious."Block 510.11am:Uh oh. There's a feel-good moment coming up. I can feel a standing ovation brewing. There's a stage full of adorable kids and the kind of teacher that you only see in Hollywood films:Rafe EsquithEsquith is one of the most charismatic teachers in America. He takes the poorest children from the worst areas and sends them off to the likes of MIT and Harvard. And he's got magnificent stage presence. It's a bit like that moment from the Dead Poets Society. Any minute now, there's a strong possibility that Bill Gates and Tim Berners-Lee and an auditorium full of tech billionaires are going to stand on their seats and start shouting "Seize the day!"Block 610.17am:Esquith has his pupils getting up at 6.30 and working Saturdays, but "if they come into read Shakespeare on a Saturday, they they don't take a test on Hamlet they act Hamlet. They don't play Guitar Band on the computer, they form a guitar band."Which is why his pupils are called the "Hobart Shakespeareans".I don't worry about preparing children for a standardised test at the end of the year. I teach them skills they are going to use for the rest of their lives. A rigorous curriculum but also immersion in the arts. They absorb qualities - focus, integrity, discipline, teamwork, and an astonishing command of language - that they will have forever.Aha! There has been a film made about him. I suspected as much. Robin Williams doesn't play him, however. It's actually a documentary.Break time now and I'm off to get my DNA turned into an orchestral symphony. As you do.Block 711.04am:It's all getting a bit master-of-the-universe out here in Long Beach. "Who's willing to pledge $100,000 to help this cause?" asks Chris Anderson. "There's the first hand, thank you. And there's another." And another. And another. There's a forest of arms going up. He should have asked, "Who's NOT going to donate $100,000?" I'm keeping my armsgluedto my side. God, you could lose your shirt out here in California with one false moveIt's a very worthy cause, though. It's forBryan Stevensonwho was yesterday's star turn. He founded theEqual Justice Initiativeand gave a stunning talk yesterday and the money is to go toward his goal of stopping children being sent to adult jails."Thank you," says Chris. "We've almost raised the first $750,000 we need." Well, that was easy.Block 811.14am:Right. Finally, it's the humanoid! It was supposed to be here two days ago, but got impounded by US customs.Henrik Scharfeis the director of the "Center for Computer-Mediated Epistemology" at Aalborg University in Denmark and he specialises in studying what and how technology can help us to understand about being human.And he's done this by building a humanoid robot replica of himself. Called the Geminoid-Dk. Who's just been rolled onto stage in an office chair. Humanoids may replace humans. Just so long as there's not steps involved. They're possibly a bit like the daleks that way.The voice is a bit Stephen Hawking too. But then the Geminoid has just told us that they've discovered differences in the way men and women perceive androids. "And women are more sensitive to the flaws in the way I look".Block 911.25am:It's not about replacing humans with robots, says Scharfe. But using robots "to understand the full spectrum of what it is to be human".He tells the story of how his parents were killed in a car crash. "And I didn't understand at first what that meant. It was only in the weeks and months that I followed where I talked to other people and saw their faces, and reactions, and emotions that I came to fully understand what it meant."The Geminoid is an exact replica of Scharfe. "We both have the same scar on our hands," he says. "But only I have the memory and the story."Great eyelids, mind. He can really blink and move his face. The voice really does need some work though.Block 1011.29am:Sebastian Wernickewho studies bioinformatics and among other things he's looked at 600 TED talks and done a mathematical analysis of what makes theperfectTED talk.Answer? Use the word "brain" "happiness" and "coffee". And don't mention the New York Times.So for this talk, he's doing a choose-your-own TED talk. He's using he audience to make choices to dictate his subject modelled on the "Choose your own adventure" books.Be warned though, he points out. Too much choice destroys serendipity.Block 1111.42am:This is rather lovely.Cesar Kuriyamais a 30-year-old filmmaker who decided to take a year off, but didn't want to waste it, and he had the idea of selecting one second of video from every day of his life which he then edits into a montage. A film of his life called One Second Every Day."It allows me to remember everything I've done. A visual memory of my life. And the bad days as well as the good days. It's not always a good day. But I think it's important to remember those days too."There's really no hanging around though. Kuriyama's gone and has been replaced by a Nobel Prize winner: the really rather formidableLeymah Gbowee.She won the 2011 peace prize alongside Ellen Sirleaf Johnson, who is now Liberia's president, for her work with women who were raped and systematically abused during Liberia's second civil war. She found the Women of Liberia Mass Action for Peace movement who staged mass protests and to demand peace. And ultimately succeeded in ousting Charles Taylor.I have six children who live in another part of Africa. But I travel the dirt roads of Liberia and there's no community that I've gone into where I haven't seen intelligent girls. But the where the dream of a better future is just a dream. Teen pregnancy is an epidemic. And  was in that place. And now I'm in this place. And I don't want to be only one. I want other girls to be with me. In 20 years, I want a Liberian girl, a Kenyan girl, an Ethiopian girl standing on this stage saying it was because of that Nobel laureate."What a woman. Here's a blast of her in Pray The Devil Back to Hell, a documentary about the women and their campaign.Block 1212.07pm:And so, it's over. With a tour-de-force talk byBrene Brown. Last year, she was invited to give a talk at a TEDx, one of the smaller, self-organised mini-TEDs, and she talked about her research. She's a professor at the University of Houston who does research into how people experience certain emotions including, shame, empathy and vulnerability.In her TEDx talk, she spoke about how her research into vulnerability, had made her aware that she had become a researcher to avoid vulnerability. "And when that emerged from my data, I had a breakdown."The next day she went for lunch with a friend and I said. "At what point did I think it was a good idea to tell 500 people I'd had a breakdown. And I said, they're putting this thing on YouTube. And we're going to be talking about 600, 700 people seeing it. And I said, 'If it turns into a thousand, my life is over.'"I had no contigency plan for four million."Brown's video went viral. It's now one of the most watched videos onted.com, and the experience, she says, has changed her life.Block 1312.50pm:"My life ended. And when that happened I learned something hard about myself. As much as I wanted my work out there, there was part of me that was working very hard to get my work out there. There was part of me that was also working very hard at staying under the radar."The two things she's learned since then is that vulnerability is not weakness. "And that myth is profoundly dangerous."And shame is the gateway drug."It's the feeling that you're never good enough. And who do you think you are. Shame is not guilt. Guilt is I did something bad. Shame is I am bad. It's highly correlated with depression, suicide, eating disorders. And it's an epidemic in our culture."It's a brilliant talk. The CEOs look like they might break down and weep. "Were you the boy whose father never praised you?" she asks. "Even when you made CFO?" Bingo, Brene. That's quite possibly the life story of the 96% of the audience, who according to Jon Ronson's talk yesterday, aren't psychopaths.Anyway, it's over and out from Long Beach. The music's stopped. Even the woman who sings the blues in Chinese. On a banjo. The sun has finally come out. And a man I saw this morning whose name tag read "Head of Personalization, Google", possibly has to go and face some questions.Thanks for keeping me company. And join us - Plan B, the Hackney Heroine, and the founder of the Pirate Party among a whole host of others - for the livestream ofTEDxObserver on March 10. Toodlepip.Block 141.17pm:Here, I'll leave you with this lovely talk on the power of a little bit of peace and quiet. It's a brand new TED talk by the authorSusan Cainand was one of the highlights of the week. Do you have an introvert in your life? Send them this. And then leave them well alone....
The analysts at stockbrokers Morgan Keegan have helpfully provided a list of the smartphones that are around in the market, and those which were launched at MWC 2012.Also interesting is the perspective of Tavis McCourt, who provides the analysis for his stockbroking clients. Here's what he had to say in his roundup:In our opinion, Huaweii was the story of the show, with a range of smartphone and tablet launches that for the first time, bring the quality of its products (at least in terms of look and feel) to that of any other Android competitor. Clearly, the commoditization of Android looks like it may even accelerate further with Huaweii seeming to be more competitive at the high end.But also:Probably the most interesting upcoming smartphone battle will be the near simultaneous launches by AT&amp;T of Nokia's Lumia 900 and the HTC One X. Given the substantial marketing campaigns dedicated to both, the fact that they are launching on a network where 81% of smartphone sales last quarter were iPhones, and each vendors' need to make this launch successful given recent trends, these launches should be quite telling as to whether any device can slow down iPhone's momentum in the US.Here's the list of smartphones introduced at MWC.Smartphones introduced at Mobile World Congress 2012DeviceOSDisplaySizeRes ARes Bpixelsper inProcessorSupplierAcer CloudMobileAndroid4.312807203421.5 GHz dual-core Snapdragon S4QualcommASUS PadfoneAndroid4.39605402561.5 GHz dual-core Snapdragon S4QualcommHTC One VAndroid3.78004802521.0 GHz single-coreQualcommHTC One SAndroid4.39605402561.5 GHz dual-core Snapdragon S4QualcommHTC One XLAndroid4.712807203121.5 GHz dual-coreQualcommHTC One XAndroid4.712807203121.5 GHz quad-core Tegra 3NvidiaHuawei Ascend D QuadAndroid4.512807203261.5 GHz quad-coreHuaweiHuawei Ascend D1Android4.512807203261.2 GHz dual-coreHuaweiLava Xolo X900Android4.0310246002941.6 GHz Z2560 MedfieldIntelLG Optimus VuAndroid510247682561.5 GHz dual-core ScorpionQualcommLG Optimus 4X HD P880Android4.712807203121.5 GHz quad-core Tegra 3NvidiaLG Optimus 3D MaxAndroid4.38004802171.2 GHz dual-core Cortex-A9N/ANokia Lumia 610Windows3.7800480252800 MHz MSM7x27QualcommNokia PureView 808Symbian46403601841.3 GHz single-coreN/ASamsung BeamAndroid48004802331.0 GHz dual-core Cortex-A9ST-EricssonSony Experia PAndroid49605402751.0 GHz dual-coreST-EricssonSony Experia UAndroid3.58544802801.0 GHz dual-coreST-EricssonZTE EraAndroid4.39605402561.3 GHz quad-core Tegra 3NvidiaZTE PF112Android4.51280720326N/AN/AZTE TaniaWindows4.38004802171.0 GHz ScorpionQualcommZTE OrbitWindows48004802331.0 GHzN/Asource: Morgan KeeganHere's the list of tablets introduced there:Tablets introduced at Mobile World Congress 2012DeviceOSDisplay SizeRes ARes BPPIWeightThickness (mmProcessorRAMHuawei MediaPad 10 FHDAndroid10192012002261.3 lbs8.81.5 GHz quad-core Huawei K32048Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 7.0Android710246001700.76 lbs10.51.0 GHz dual-core1024Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 10.1Android10.112808001491.3 lbs9.71.0 GHz dual-core Cortex-A91024Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1Android10.112808001491.3 lbs8.91.4 GHz dual-core1024Toshiba Excite 10 LEAndroid10.112808001491.18 lbs7.71.2 GHz dual-core TI OMAP 44301024ZTE PF 100Android10.11280800149N/AN/A1.5 GHz quad-core Tegra 31024source: Morgan KeeganNote: an earlier version of the smartphone table included an erroneous entry for a Samsung Galaxy S3 phone. No such phone was launched.
It's become the stuff of headlines lately when Apple announces a new product. But shouldrumors and content-free announcements of announcementsalso be considered news?They are in the weird world of business and technology media, thanks to a combination of lazy journalism and Apple's uncanny ability to turn otherwise sensible people into wind-up dolls. We're seeing the latest example this week in a series ofbreathless reports that confirm previous rumorsof an imminent announcement of what is probably the next version of the iPad.Allow me to parse that last sentence, with some history.Apple announced the first two versions of the iPad in each of the past two winters, and released them for sale in April 2011 and March 2010. Traditional and new media reports have passed along a variety of rumors guessing, reasonably, that the iPad 3 would arrive on much the same schedule, with the assortment of improvements that accompany the release of any new technology product. Much of that "coverage" has centered on: a) when Apple would announce the tablet; and b) what the improvements might be.Then, earlier this week, Apple sent out invitations to anevent to be held next Wednesday in San Francisco. (Needless to say, I am not invited; I've been on Apple's invisibility-cloak list for years.) The picture in the invitation included what appears to be a portion of an iPad. The invitation text included this: "We have something you really have to see. And touch."This is media catnip – with predictable results, includinganother boost to Apple's stock price. In the day since the invitations went out, hundreds of stories relaying next week's announcement have appeared online and in print. The invitations themselves sparked a flurry of what might be called an Apple version of Kremlinology, including several speculative pieces themessage Apple is sending with the partial-screen image.There are, of course, some mitigating factors in journalists' contribution to this endless charade. Apple is, after all, the most valuable company in the world, one of the most profitable enterprises of all time – largely because it sells technology and software that are world-class and, in several cases, the best, period. And it has enormous influence on popular culture. Moreover, a large segment of the journalism audience seems to devour all news about Apple, even rumors of announcements of upcoming announcements. Online page views of Apple stories are routinely higher than page views for many, if not most other, topics. Paying the bills is part of running a media organization.But there's also a strong element of journalistic laziness, if not worse. Just as covering the horse race is easier for political reporters than digging deep into the issues, lame write-ups about Apple's latest quarter-turn of the proverbial screw are easier than investigating on Apple's less-praiseworthy policies and acts. (Here's some useful journalism relating to the working conditions at Apple's foreign manufacturers' plants:an article in Grist, which covers environmental topics, noting that labor costs for iPhones and iPads are a tiny fraction, per unit, of Apple's overheads. In other words, Apple could still enjoy staggering profit margins even if it required its captive manufacturers to do the right thing.)In the 1990s, Microsoft enjoyed much the same kind of treatment from journalists. The run-up to the launch of Windows 95 produced some of the most entertaining hyperbole in media history.What was less entertaining – though it took the tech press many years to notice – was Microsoft's growing monopoly and its systematic abuses of that market dominance. The most public evidence of the company's most egregious anti-competitive behavior surfaced in evidence and testimony during the big anti-trust trial in the late 1990s, but the company's activities were no surprise to anyone who'd been paying serious attention. Microsoft hasn't totally reformed its ways, but it's been a vastly better corporate citizen since being put on notice that its predatory actions were not acceptable.Recent reporting about Apple's manufacturersis the exception to a longstanding obsequiousness that has characterized most journalism about the company. I keep wondering when the trade and business press will focus, hard, on the company'sglobal patent war against Android and hardware competitors, or its overwhelming dominance in the tablet market; or its"our way or the highway" polices with app developersand users. Apple's record of control-freakery is unmatched in the industry – and expanding. (The fact that I can link to these stories is evidence that there's not total journalistic silence on these topics; but these pieces are distinct outliers amid the OMG-isn't-Apple-wonderful? chorus.)Sooner or later, the journalistic worm will turn on Apple. I hope, when it does, that the journalism won't tip over into an antagonism that is as unbalanced as today's bended-knee style. Apple is one of the most important enterprises on the planet, for some very good reasons, as well as less praiseworthy ones. It's time for journalists to examine much more closely all aspects of the organization and its power.
Social TV appZeeboxwill be getting a live in-app video feed during the final of Sky 1 HD's Got to Dance show when it airs on Sunday 4 March.The feed won't be the show itself, but will instead be the winners of its 2011 series commentating on this year's finalists' performances. Zeebox is using Orca Digital's showcaster platform to deliver the video.It's a big step forward for Zeebox, which until now has focused on getting its users to check in to the shows they're watching on TV, so they can see what other viewers are tweeting, and get contextual information on the programmes and their stars.This is the first time the app has delivered a live video stream. It has been working with Sky throughout the Got to Dance series though, showing a feed of moderated comments from the show's studio "Social Wall", and providing iTunes links to buy songs that have featured."As we continue to find fresh ways of weaving social media interactivity into our shows, the Got To Dance Final presents a great opportunity to capitalise on the online buzz and excitement around who will steal Chris and Wes' crown through zeebox's engaging second screen technology," says Aidan Conway, head of digital entertainment at BSkyB."With the show simulcast on Sky 3D as well as Sky 1 HD alongside a comprehensive second screen experience, we're confident that this year's final will be the most immersive and interactive ever."It is no surprise that BSkyB is the first partner for Zeebox for this new feature, given that itacquired a 10% stakein the startup in January 2012, just two months after its first app launched for Apple's iPad.The interesting question with Got to Dance is whether viewers will be keen on watching two separate live video feeds – the show itself on their main television, and the commentary feed on their mobile devices.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I think it has to be the vacuum cleaner, because it keeps the carpet clean and I hate the idea of walking around the carpet with bare feet with bits on it. It drives me nuts.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Funnily enough, last night – because my little daughter was unwell, and because of that the person who comes in and helps us clean our house couldn't go into the front room, so when she went to bed I vacuumed the carpet.What additional features would you add if you could?Somebody to operate it. But more importantly, somebody to empty the bag all the time and for the bags not to cost a fortune and be able to be reused.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?There is no way in the world that a vacuum cleaner will ever be obsolete – they use the use them for swimming pools, they use them for houses, they use them for industrial purposes. They're fantastic things.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Having to learn how to use it. I'm pretty impatient. I think that most things, if you want to use them properly, take quite a lot of time and I don't necessarily have the patience to sit down and read the instructions and follow the first bits to actually get the starting point.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Yes – the Sony Discman. I had a  Sony Discman in the late 1990s and it was probably the most useless thing I ever bought in my life, because you couldn't buy a disc to go in it. You could probably get a couple. To record on them was really painful, and they used to jump. Presently, I don't know where it is – I think I may have thrown it away a long, long time ago.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Have a full day, the day after you've bought it, to sit down and to learn how to use it in a quiet place without anybody else. Maybe draw on other peoples' experience, but at the same time, experiment  a little bit with it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm definitely not a nerd, not a nerd at all. I find it very difficult to adjust, so does that mean I'm a luddite?What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Expensive in today's terms, or expensive then? I bought my first computer in 1995 – a PC for home, to start writing a cookbook – and it cost me £2,800. That same computer now would probably cost about £300. So, I suppose in real terms, that was really expensive.Mac or PC, and why?At work we have PCs; for me at home, it's a  Mac. I much prefer Mac – I don't have to worry about updating it all the time, I don't have to worry about reinstalling things. They're really easy to use, they're virus free, you can do whatever you like on them – I think they're great.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do both downloads and I also buy physical stuff. I like the idea of a decent CD for the car; I like the idea of a CD to actually take onto the PC and then download it onto my iPhone or whatever it might be; I download stuff onto my iPhone occasionally. The last thing I downloaded – besides the MasterChef app – was the Fat Boy Slim compilation album.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I think a robot butler would be a great idea for certain things. But the idea of anybody coming into my bedroom and doing stuff for me, besides my wife and I – such as giving you tea in the morning – I just find a bit irksome. I also quite like doing stuff for myself.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I would like one of those skateboard things off Back to The Future that flew through the air. But it would have to be a lot more stable than that – more like The Jetsons used to have, where they were like a frisbee that you stood on.• John Torode co-hostsMasterChefon BBC1
Is BlackBerry-maker RIM nearing the end of another gruesome quarter? Two financial analysts seem to think so, having independently downgraded their estimates this week for RIM's revenues, handsets sold and profits for the three months whichfinishes on 3 March.First to move was Peter Misek of Jefferies, who issued a note late on Wednesday (reported on Forbes) in which he said that current Wall Street estimates for RIM's just-ended quarter are too high.The company is due to report its financial results on 29 March, but there have been rumours swirling in the blogosphere that it will revise its figures downwards imminently.Misek thinks that RIM has missed its targets for shipments: the company guided at 11-12m units during its financial results in December. Misek cut his forecast from 12m to 10.5m.For the quarter (where RIM guided $4.6bn-$4.9bn) Misek cut his forecast from $4.6bn to a frankly dire $4.2bn – a figure lower than anything since the December 2009-February 2010 quarter.He also cut his profit forecast from 82c per share (which translates to $422m) to 69c per share ($355m). "If RIM does make their guidance [on revenues, handset sales and profits] we believe the difference between sell-in [shipments to carriers] and sell-through [sales by carriers to customers] would cause a correction in the May quarter suggestion a very weak guide for May. Either way we see consensus numbers as too high." That is, even if RIM has persuaded carriers to take its handsets this quarter, their inventory will be backed up, and they won't want as many in the coming three months.After Misek, it was the turn of Stern Agee's Shaw Wu, who said that his own supply chain information suggest that Android and Apple's iPhone are still corroding RIM's position."We're picking up that the company's higher-end BlackBerrys, including the Bold 9900 and Torch 9800, as doing relatively better as users are attracted to their form factors that combine a touchscreen and keyboard," Wu wrote in a research note (reported at AllThingsD). But other handsets, including the touchscreen-only Torch 9850, appeared below plan, he noted.Wu calculates handset shipments at 11.3m (down from his earlier 11.9m estimate), revenues of $4.55bn (down from a forecast $4.7bn) and profit of 86c per share (down from 95c forecast).Here are the graphs. First, handset shipments:RIM handset shipments, past, and forecast for 4Q 2012 (quarter ending Feb 2012). Source: RIM, analyst reportsNext, revenues:RIM quarterly revenues past, and forecast for fourth quarter 2012 (ending February 2012). Source: RIM, analystsAnd finally, profitsRIM quarterly profits past, and forecast for 4Q 2012 (ended February 2012). Source: RIM, analystsThat two analysts are downrating RIM's position isn't encouraging. The company has recently started losing US government contracts to Apple and, to a lesser extent, Android, while a number of UK banks which had been committed to BlackBerry systems have begun testing iPhones for staff.For new chief executive Thorsten Heins,promoted in January after co-founders Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie stepped aside(though not off the board), the next couple of quarters will be his biggest test – and may determine whether RIM can redefine itself and discover new relevance, or fade into obscurity as Palm did. It's not a small task.As Mizey also pointed out, with the new BlackBerry OS not expected until "late 2012", that could time it after a new Apple model - and also an updated Windows Phone version. That, he said, would be particularly troubling. As if RIM wasn't troubled already.
Scott McNealy, co-founder of Sun Microsystems, once said: "You have no privacy. Get over it." That was in 2003, and the situation is dramatically worse today.Even if you try to remain anonymous, companies now track you using cookies (files they store on your hard drive), anonymous identifiers (random character strings to identify you if they can't use cookies), web bugs (invisible pixels on web pages), your IP address (the number provided by your internet service provider) and several other things.If you use the same name and account on many different sites then you are actively helping web advertisers – of which Google is by far the biggest – to profile you and serve you the most appropriate, and effective, advertisements.Basically, you are trading information for convenience. However, there are some simple things you can do to stem the flood.Google's Privacy toolsGoogle may be under fire for its privacy changes, but it provides by far the best tools for controlling your personal information, and a handy Dashboard for your various accounts.Start with thePrivacy tools pageand use the options to opt out of tracking. The Dashboard shows your use of most Google services, even if the accounts are under different names. It also includes "Me on the Web", which may include your Facebook and Twitter accounts and any personal blogs that you have linked to.You can edit or remove some information, but the ultimate sanction is to go toaccount settingsand delete everything. If that's too much, at least deleteyour web browsing history.Block trackingGoogle's has an "opt out cookie" for people who want toopt out of its pervasive advertising system. However, there are independent browser plug-ins that aim to block other attempts to track you.Abine'sDo Not Track Plusis a leading free example. Alternatives includeGhosteryandTrackerBlock. Using an anonymous browsing service (see below) should also limit tracking.Private browsingMany web browsers now include a "private browsing" feature. This includes InPrivate Browsing in Microsoft's Internet Explorer, Incognito mode in Google's Chrome, and Private Browsing in Firefox and Apple's Safari.These are mainly intended to protect your browsing habits from other family members, but they also increase security and help protect your privacy online.If you restrict your use of Gmail, Facebook and similar sites to private browser windows, other sites will find it harder to track the connection.Anonymous browsingYou must have an IP (internet protocol) address to use the web, and that identities you to websites. However, instead of going directly to a website, you can go via one or more intermediate websites, or proxies, so the final website can't see where you started.This is hard for non-technical users, so various "anonymous proxy" websites have been set up, some free, and some commercial. Examples includehidemyass.com,anonymouse.org,ProxifyandMegaproxy.The most comprehensive anonymous browsing service is the peer-to-peerTor(The onion router) network. Proxy systems are important globally because they help stop your ISP or government from tracking you. However, free proxy services tend to be slow, will not access certain sites, will not download large files, and have other measures to prevent abuse.Don't give away informationYour personal information is valuable, and in an age of rising identity theft, try to avoid giving too much away.Instead of using mainly Google sites (Gmail, Blogger, YouTube, Picasa etc), use different names on different sites. There are usually alternatives, including DuckDuckGo for search, Hotmail for email, Flickr for photos and so on.On sites where you benefit from providing accurate personal data, such as Facebook and LinkedIn, don't provide unnecessary detail, and use the privacy controls to limit access to your data.If you can avoid social networks including Google Plus – which is Google's attempt to get real personal data to connect up your accounts – that should also increase your privacy.
A former Tory local council candidate has failed in his libel action against Google over comments posted about him on a blog.Payam Tamiz started legal proceedings against Google after allegedly defamatory comments were written about him on the London Muslim section of Blogger.com.Google argued that it had no control over any of the content and had no way of knowing whether the comments posted were true or not.In a written judgement handed down at the high court on Friday, Mr Justice Eady said Google should not be regarded as a publisher under the established principles of the common law.Eady said that even if Google was regarded as the publisher of the offending words, it would be exempted from liability in accordance with regulation 19 of the European Union's electronic commerce directive 2002.He concluded that the court should decline jurisdiction in the proceedings.The comments were posted on the blog after Tamiz resigned as a conservative candidate for local elections in Thanet in north Kent.Tamiz brought no proceedings against either the original blogger or individual commenters.Meanwhile, a Frenchman is suing Google over an image published on its Street View service.The photograph shows him urinating in his front yard, which he believes has made him the laughing stock of his village in rural northwest France.The man, who is aged around 50 and lives in a village of about 3,000 people in the Maine-et-Loire region, is demanding the removal of the photo, in which locals have recognised him despite his face being blurred out. He also wants €10,000 euros (£8,319) in damages."Everyone has the right to a degree of secrecy," his lawyer, Jean-Noel Bouillard, said. "In this particular case, it's more amusing than serious. But if he'd been caught kissing a woman other than his wife, he would have had the same issue."The man thought he was hidden from view by his closed gate as he relieved himself in November 2010. But the Google Street View's camera car caught him from above his gate as it passed by. Bouillard did not explain why the man chose to urinate outside.
There was a time when you could censor without spying. WhenBritain banned the publication of James Joyce's Ulyssesin the 1920s and 1930s, the ban took the form on a prohibition on the sale of copies of the books. Theoretically, this entailed opening some imported parcels, and it certainly imposed a constraint on publishers and booksellers. It was undoubtedly awful. But we've got it worse today.Jump forward 80 years. Imagine that you want to ban www.jamesjoycesulysses.com due to a copyright claim from the Joyce estate. Thanks to the Digital Economy Act and the provision it makes for a national British copyright firewall, we're headed for a system where entertainment companies can specify URLs that have "infringing" websites, and a national censorwall will block everyone in the country from visiting those sites.In order to stop you from visiting www.jamesjoycesulysses.com, the national censorwall must intercept all your outgoing internet requests and examine them to determine whether they are for the banned website. That's the difference between the old days of censorship and our new digital censorship world. Today, censorship is inseparable from surveillance.Of course, you can surveil without censoring, watching everything and stopping nothing. Ironically, from a human rights perspective, censorship with surveillance is better than censorship on its own. In despotic regimes around the world, censorship is the spur that gets internet users to useTOR, the Onion Router, a technology for bypassing censorwalls that offers some anonymity in the bargain.When the government in Syria or Iran blocks Facebook orHuman Rights Watch, internet users figure out how to install and use TOR, and their browsing habits are kept private from the secret police. When the state drops the censorship, many users drop TOR – which slows down your internet connection – and then everything they do is visible to the agents of the state who might kidnap, torture and kill them for looking at the wrong parts of the internet.The death of privacy?We hear a lot about the death of privacy, and the supposed end of our desire to be private. I think it's more correct to say that we're very bad at pricing the long-term option on a present-day privacy disclosure. That's because privacy tradeoffs are one of those areas of public life where actions and consequences are separated by a lot of time and space. That's a recipe for a problem that's nearly impossible to get good at solving.To understand why, think of the old days of film cameras. In those days, most families shot one or two rolls of film a year – one on the family vacation and one though Christmas and birthdays, more or less. You'd send the film off to the lab for photo processing, sometimes months after the exposures were shot, and you'd get back your pictures. Most would be mediocre, some would be terrible, and a few would be wonderful. But unless you went to extraordinary lengths to record the circumstances of each shot, you would almost certainly have no idea what you did to make the good ones good and the bad ones bad.Without that vital knowledge about causes and effects, it is impossible to improve at any task. The easiest way to cultivate a knowledge of cause and effect is to move the two closer together. When digital cameras arrived on the scene, they were inferior to film cameras in many ways, but they had an immediacy that film cameras had never managed. Even "instant" Polaroid cameras couldn't compare with the feedback that digital cameras gave.As soon as you press the shutter button, your image appears on the viewfinder. Even though digital cameras lack the resolution of film cameras, most of us amateurs make better photos with them than we ever did with our film cameras. Merely being able to marry cause and effect does that. As a society, we've gotten so good at taking photos that we now buy products like Hipstamatic that degrade our pictures to make them look more "authentic," in part because our casual snaps are so well-framed and -timed that they have the look of a studio portrait. Adding grain, blur and colour imbalances restores the sense that they are "genuine" spontaneous shots.Privacy disastersWe lack any effective means of moving cause and effect together for privacy, especially for the worst kinds of privacy disasters.In the early 1980s, I had a teacher whose wife went into hospital to deliver their first child. Afterwards, they were approached by a nice man from a marketing consortium offering a basket of free nappies, baby-grows, wipes, and other necessities. All he wanted in return was the child's name, date of birth and address (details that privacy detractors trivialise as "tombstone" information). They gave it to him.A few weeks later, the baby died. It was unforeseen and tragic. More tragic, though, was what happened every year on the child's birthday: the grieving family got a slew of commercial offers in the post, targeted at a dead child's ageing ghost.Few of us would have the foresight to turn down a basket of freebies on the grounds that our newborn first child might die suddenly. It's not the sort of thing that we are likely to turn our minds to as we recover in a maternity ward. Of course, once the lesson of the downside of this sort of disclosure has been learned, we're not likely to forget it, but how many times in our lives do we get to apply the lesson? Will we be clever and insightful enough to apply the lesson the next time someone offers us an unrelated privacy bargain (say, a Boots reward card)?Privacy isn't the only problem that is widespread, potentially grave and characterised by the separation of cause and effect. In fact, these are the traits that unite our most pernicious public health problems. No one would smoke if the tumours emerged with your first drag. No one would overeat if every mouthful of cheesecake was instantly transformed into an equal volume of cellulite on your thighs or stomach. No one would drink to excess if the hangover started while you were hoisting your first pint of the evening.Many people who smoke will never develop cancer. Many people who eat cheesecake have the BMI of a ballerina. Many people who drink never get drunk. But for people who do experience problems, the consequences are grave, even deadly. Likewise, many people who deliberately or inadvertently disclose their private information will never suffer any particularly grave consequences. But the worst failures of privacy disclosure will be just as grave as in other public health problems — bankruptcy, identity theft, even danger of violence (in the case of Iranian dissidents who allow themselves to be snooped upon by the national firewall).Privacy v profitThere are plenty of services that make healthy profits off of this unfortunate dynamic. The existence of overeating doesn't mean that "people don't care about obesity". The success of the tobacco industry doesn't mean "people don't care about cancer". And the existence of widespread privacy disclosures online doesn't mean "people don't care about privacy".Governments put a lot of energy into tackling public health problems. They regulate the companies that profit from the problems – by instituting a minimum drinking age, prohibiting public smoking and so on – and conduct public education campaigns to help people appreciate the potential future effects of their present-day causes. Reflecting the difficulty of such problems, governments often turn to the lurid, disturbing imagery, such as graphic photos of diseased lungs or shock adverts depicting the dangers of drunkenness.Imagine, instead, that the government spent an equivalent amount to make the problem worse. Imagine that the state used its tax coffers to ensure that cigarette vending machines were placed in every school. Imagine if they instituted a nationwide two-drink minimum for people stopping in at petrol stations or riding the buses.Fundamentally, this is what national censorship regimes accomplish. They require us to disclose our every online click and keystroke to the state and the private companies that operate the censorship mechanisms it employs. They especially require this of our children, particularly in schools and libraries. It's often the case that the companies that supply censorware to schools, libraries and parents are the very same that serve autocrats from Burma to Bahrain, repackaging their code and their blacklists for sale in liberal democracies' educational institutions.Most of the privacy disclosures made by most of the internet's users will not harm them in any way. But we all make so many disclosures, so often, that it's only a matter of time until each of us comes up against the difficulty of getting better at privacy. We need the state to help us fight the public health problem, to encourage the use of tools that promote privacy online, to deliver the technical skills to help each child operate her computer and browser in a way that puts her in charge of how her information is disclosed as she moves through the web. We need them to remind us all that this stuff matters, and to pause and think through our information habits and consider the ways that they might come back to bite us in the future.We can't do that at the same time as we are nationally discounting the value of all private internet information to zero. We can't tell people to value their privacy and treat it as valueless. Well, we can, but only if we don't actually care about the harms that can arise from privacy breaches. Only if we want to make "people don't care about privacy" into our national mission-statement.
A selection of 14 apps for you today:Spot Goes to the FarmPenguin Books has launched a new iOS book-app for Spot the dog, adding voice narration, animation and puzzles to Eric Hill's original story. It's the second Spot app following Spot Goes to School, which came out in September 2010.iPhone / iPadViolet CrownUS indie band Bluebrain have released their third location-based album-app for iOS, following previous apps designed to be listened to in Washington, DC's National Mall and New York's Central Park. This time round, the location is the SXSW festival in Austin, Texas. "Each street and intersection is tagged with distinct musical zones that blend from one to another as the listener traverses the streets," explains the App Store listing.iPhone / iPaddealBoarddealBoard is an interesting new approach to daily deals, getting you to choose brands that you do and don't like, then filtering deals from Groupon, LivingSocial and dozens of other services to just show the ones you might be interested in. We'll have more in an interview later today.iPhoneMashable for iPadI thought Mashable already had an official iPad app, but there appears to be a new one on the App Store today. It provides a slick tablet interface to read the social media site's latest news and analysis, plus social features.iPadUsing My Words to Ask For What I Want Social StoryThe latest iOS app for children with autism is Using My Words to Ask For What I Want, whose title is self-explanatory. It's a 13-page "social story" about how to ask for different objects or activities, explaining why it's important to ask. It's the work of developer Touch Autism.iPhone / iPadCityMapsCityMaps only works in San Francisco and New York for now, but it's an interesting idea that could be tailor-made for London. The idea: a map that shows "every storefront in your city", pulling in Foursquare tips, tweets and daily deals for as many of them as possible.iPhoneMLB.com At Bat 12Major League Baseball has re-released its official app in time for the new season, with premium subscribers able to watch live video of matches. It also throws in radio broadcasts, live stats, news and roster details.Android / iPhone / iPadNews.me for iPhoneSocial news aggregation app News.me has made the leap from iPad to iPhone, harvesting links posted by your Facebook and Twitter friends, and also the comments they've made. Its path from iPad to iPhone follows the similar journey made by Flipboard, with a similar focus on simple, stylish design.iPhoneVia.MeInstagram remains top dog in the social photography apps world, but there is no shortage of competitors. Via.Me is the latest, with 18 filters to make photos look beautiful before sharing them on Facebook and Twitter. However, it also throws videos, audio notes and text messaging into the mix.iPhoneOnLive DesktopCloudy gaming firm OnLive has a sideline in remote-desktop products, with its OnLive Desktop providing access to a PC desktop from a tablet. Already available on iPad, it now has an Android version, which has so far been tested with the Acer Iconia Tab A500, ASUS Eee TF101, Motorola Xoom, Samsung Galaxy Tab 8.9 and 10.1 and HTC Jetstream.AndroidSplashtop THDMore remote access here on Android, albeit with more of a gaming focus. It enables you to stream audio and video from a PC or Mac, running applications and playing games – Skyrim is cited as a key use case. Be warned, though, this version only works on Android tablets running Google's Ice Cream Sandwich software and with Nvidia Tegra 3 processors inside.AndroidKew Gardens: The Official AppLondon's Kew Gardens' official app has been ported from iPhone to Android, offering photo-highlights, an interactive garden map, information on attractions and a QR code-scanning feature to get more information on individual plants.AndroidThe World of Richelle MeadHaving sold 5m books, vampire-focused author Richelle Mead has a new official app published by Penguin Group. It offers previews of her books for young adults, in-app purchases of e-books, a wealth of content to flesh out her fictional world, and social features.iPhone / iPadAshKonami's retro RPG Ash has also been ported to Android, offering turn-based battles and 16-bit graphics for fans of the genre.Android
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamStop the 'Do Not Track' Madness &gt;&gt; Wired.comLauren Weinstein:Part of the problem is that the entire concept of simplistic internet "Do Not Track" systems is based on a number of false premises. Maybe the biggest misleading assertion is that internet advertising is essentially equivalent to the invasive telephone solicitations the "Do Not Call" registry was created to quash. But most internet ads -- occasional egregious exceptions notwithstanding -- aren't anything like some phone-calling stooge interrupting your dinner. And reducing the value of web ads to advertisers -- either through ad blocking systems or "Do Not Track" regimes that encourage random rather than personalized ads -- fundamentally undermines the primary funding mechanisms that help to satisfy our (let's admit it!) essentially selfish desires to keep most web services free.On reading this that you suddenly understand that the thing about web ads is that hardly anyone acts on them at all. They may be some of the most-ignored content ever anywhere, and have been for years.Why should we opt out of Google's new privacy policy? &gt;&gt; Wired UKMax Tatton-Brown:We're entering this strange phase of privacy where people truly can't fathom what is being done with their "personal data". When they hear changes are coming, they for some reason equate that it means Google will be rifling through their old love letters and home videos and selling them to the highest bidder. For all the articles out there that detail how to circumvent Google's new privacy policy, there's a real lack of anything that truly explains why. It's also another fascinating example of the sense of entitlement people feel to free online services (news, search, maps, encyclopaedias) -- and how that is at odds with their understanding of how these companies make money.In the Valley, anything less than 92% share makes you irrelevant &gt;&gt; Ed BottGuess how many people run Vista?Oh, look! Worldwide, 8% of all desktop/portable computer users are still running the hated, reviled Windows Vista. That's more than all users of OS X and Linux combined. And, of course, if you add up the number of Windows XP users (dominated by enterprises) and Windows 7 (mostly consumers and small businesses), the percentage is more than 10 times the total of all OS X and Linux users combined. That's from a worldwide base of nearly 1.5 billion traditional computers--PCs and Macs. Pretty good for an irrelevant company.Yeah, but unlike Apple, Microsoft's invitations are really easy to decode.How Twitter broke Twitter &gt;&gt; The Incidental EconomistNow notes whether you "reply" to a tweet and filters who sees it accordingly:Dan initiated his tweet by "replying" to one of mine (i.e., he clicked "reply"). Back in 2009Twitter changedwhat "reply" means. But even after that change, prefacing with a "." did permit all your followers to see the reply (or so I've been told). This seems to be one of the most important early lessons most  learn on Twitter. There are loads of blog posts out there that explain this usage, and many since 2009. Now even that has changed. Clicking "reply" now means that only joint followers see the tweet even if you prefix it with a "." (or anything else for that matter). You can still tweet at (@) someone with a ".@" construction and have all your followers see it but not if you click reply. When did this change occur? I cannot find anything on the internet that documents it. Is this the first post to do so?A later addition says: "Dan has been tracking this story and tells me that it appears Twitter has been changing their code over the past few hours. So, folks out there testing ".@" replies may be getting different results than we show above for that reason."UK Government: Open Standards ConsultationCabinet Office minister Francis Maude:Open standards are vital for progressing this work and I encourage you to share your views in this consultation.Get stuck in - or you can't complain in the future.Nokia's bet on Microsoft may still yield payoff - WSJ.com(Subscription may be required):Part of the problem, said Mr. Elop, is that not only does Nokia have to sell phones, it has to sell the whole ecosystem. And in that space it appears to be doing a lot of the heavy lifting by itself. For while Microsoft says there are some eight manufacturers signed up to the platform only Nokia has declared it as its principal platform. On the stand of China's ZTE Corp. at Mobile World Congress, an assistant wasn't too clear how many Windows Mobile phones the company has in its portfolio: less than five, she seemed to think, compared to more than 20 Android devices. In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Europe, Peter Chou, CEO of HTC Corp., one of the first to market with a Windows Phone device, said sales had been disappointing. Mr. Chou was in town to talk about its new Android phone. So who is to blame? Emma Mohr-McClune, research director at Current Analysis, laid part of the blame with the carriers. "Carriers all talk about the need to support a third ecosystem, to create better balance in what is effectively an OS (operating system) duopoly. But so far there's been little more than lip-service. Windows Phone support should be more of a strategic priority, and I'd like to see more creativity in the partnership," she said.Inside Eric Schmidt's brain: Holodecks, robo-cars and jail bandwidth &gt;&gt; The RegisterFun precis of Schmidt's speech:As ever with these presentations it's the question-and-answer sessions which are most interesting - and it's a great shame that the other CEOs didn't follow Schmidt's example of giving 30 minutes of his time to the audience. Your humble scribe asked how Google would handle Chinese manufacturers violating Motorola Mobility's IP now that Google more or less owns it; Motorola was never brave enough to take on China's finest in the Asian nation's courts. Schmidt said he was aware of the issue, said he was not scared of asserting rights in China, but added that the merger was still in progress and no decision had been made.Pity. But the writeup shows Schmidt as someone very much on top of even the tiny detail.Et tu, Google? Android apps can also secretly copy photos &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comAs Bits reported earlier this week, developers who make applications for Apple iOS devices have access to a person's entire photo library, as long as that person allows the app to use location data. It turns out that Google, maker of the Android mobile operating system, takes it one step further. Android apps do not need permission to access a user's photos, and as long as an app has the right to access the Internet, it can copy those photos to a remote server without any notice, according to developers and mobile security experts. It is not clear whether any apps that are available for Android devices are actually doing this.The proof-of-concept was done by Lookout Software, which specialises in spotting malware on mobiles. Google, in response, said it would consider changing its approach; "A Google spokesman said that the lack of restrictions on photo access was a design choice related to the way early Android phones stored data."Opinion: Should you care about Pinterest? &gt;&gt; Macworld"A lot of what gets pinned on Pinterest is aspirational--what could be, what I'm going to have, where I'm going to go," saidGartnersenior research analyst Jenny Sussin. What sets Pinterest apart from other social networks is that it isn't about sharing what's happening to you right now, it's about sharing and collecting what you like and what you want and what inspires you.Some of bloggers I talked with who use Pinterest say they depend on it as a personal tool rather than a social one. "I am always saving images for inspiration, future post ideas, and projects, so I use Pinterest every day," said Joy Cho ofOh Joy. "It's just fun looking at a beautiful page of images that make me happy and inspire my work." Visual bookmarking isn't a totally new idea--sites likeFfffoundhave offered similar features. Pinterest just does it better.That's the key thing about a social network - have a USP.Nokia 808 PureView pixels versus the iPhone 4SThe numbers behind the Nokia 808 PureView do boggle the mind. Or at least they should. The populist tech media has leapt up on the '41 Megapixel' figure and generally either misunderstood why it needs to be so high or questioned whether it's real in the first place. Yet that stat is only incidental in the bigger story.A good read. (Thanks @anig for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's Friday! If you were hoping to buy a game today, pretty much your only choice is EA's highly promising snowboarding sim, SSX. Let us know if you're heading out today to grab it!
Block 18.42am:Good morningBlock 211.00am:And we're back!It's day 3 of TED2012, and the next session called "The Courtroom" is about to kick off. But in the meantime, here's the video of Vijay Kumar's talk from yesterday which TED has just posted. It's probably been the most talked-about presentation so far, and the footage of flying, swarming, nano-copters is quite astonishing (and not a little bit scary). It's really not unlike watching a battalion of alien invaders swooping towards earth.....Block 311.11am:Jim Stengelwho's described as "as a brand ­marketer looking to change the narrative of business" is up first. He had what he describes as "the best job in the world" - Global Marketing Officer for Proctor &amp; Gamble (well he seemed to like it) - but the very month he got it, his younger brother was diagnosed with leukaemia. "And suddenly my job seemed very very trivial."He left the job and since then he's been "re-imagining business" - he believes the best businesses should connect emotionally with their customers and their employees.We are, he claims, "entering an era of higher ideals". And this is "the only way forward".The problem is that we don't "bring our whole selves to work". (Of course, some might say, thank God...)At Proctor &amp; Gamble, Stengel asked people to bring their "weekend passion" to work. "They brought this energy to bear on brands like Pampers...and Old Spice." Hmm. I think he may slightly have lost the crowd then....Still, there's an awful lot of CEOs in the audience...and generally they love this leadership schtick.Block 411.53am:Sherry Turkleup now with a profoundly interesting but disturbing talk. She's one of the most influential theorists of the online world, whose 1996 book Life on the Screen: Identity in the Age of the Internet put her onto the cover of Wired magazine."I'm still excited about technology," she says. "But my new book isn't going to put me on the cover of Wired magazine."The devices in our pockets, she says, are removing us from our own lives. Are impacting upon our most meaningful relationships. And actually changing who we are.As a psychologist, she studies people's relationships with technology, how people will now text in board meetings, in classrooms, while having breakfast with their children. "Even at funerals, I've studied people texting. They are taking themselves out of their grief and into their phones."Block 512.00pm:It's an impassioned talk, a speech, really. "Human relationships are rich and they're messy and they're demanding. And we clean them up with technology. We sacrifice conversation for mere connection."Technology appeals to us where we're most vulnerable, says Turkle. "It gives us the illusion of companionship without the means of friendship."It feeds the fantasy that we will always be heard, and we will never be alone."And it's changing our psyches.It "makes being alone feel like a problem that needs to be solved. Where the moment people are alone they reach for a device."We need to learn to be alone, says Turkle. We even have to re-learn how to be bored. "We all really need to listen to each other including during the boring bits. When we lose our words or stumble it's when we reveal ourselves."We need to use technology to bring us back to our real lives.What's most interesting, perhaps, is that Turkle gets a standing ovation from the TED crowd. (Even as, ahem, they tweet her best bits..)Block 612.12pm:Tali Sharoton now. She's the neuroscientist at UCL, London, who studies what she calls "the optimisim bias", the irrational tendency that humans seem to have to look on the bright side. Or as she calls "the cognitive bias". A bias, that generally keeps us deluded about our true natures. But also happier.We ran an extract of Sharot's book in the Observer a couple of months ago. And there's a Q&amp;A with her, that I didhere.And, she's also going to be talking atTEDxObserveron March 10. Yeah. TED Long Beach is just a warm-up act really.....Block 712.23pm:It works in all sorts of intriguing ways. Those warnings on cigarette packets? "People recognise that smoking kills," says Sharot. "But it mostly kills the other guy."Just like the divorce rate might be 40 per cent, but that's other people's relationships breaking down....Basically, if we believe the future's bright. It generally is. Particularly when it comes to our health. We worry about it less. And suffer fewer anxiety and stress-related illnesses. Result! (Apart from the poor saps who don't have the optimism bias. Bad luck chums, Sharot thinks it's probably largely genetic.)Block 812.30pm:Cool! There's a 17-year-old on stage showing off his experiments in nuclear fusion.Taylor Wilsonbuilt a reactor in his dad's garage. When he was 14. As you do. TED really can make you come over all inadequate at times...Block 912.40pm:Brilliant speaker up now,Bryan Stevenson. He's a professor of law at NYU and the founder of theEqual Justice Initiativecampaigns against bias and discrimination in the US justice system.Forty years ago, there were 300,000 inmates in America's jails. Now there are 2.3 million, he says. America now has the highest rate of incarceration in the world. "And I believe mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world."Justice in America, he says, serves the rich and guilty far better than it does if you're poor and innocent. "Wealth not culpability shapes outcomes. And yet we seem to be very comfortable with that."There are states in the south, which permanently disenfranchise you if you have a criminal conviction. There are places where 30 per cent of the population have permanently lost the right to vote."I represent a lot of children," he says. "And we're the only country in the world that sends 13-year-old children to die in prison."Block 1012.55pm:Blimey, Stevenson for president. He's an absolutely stunning speaker and has just got the biggest standing ovation of the week so far. Even in the underground simulcast lounge, people are throwing themselves off the soft furnishings and cheering.Hang on, let me see if I can find a blast of him on YouTube. Here he is:The "misguided" war on drugs filled the jails, he says. And then "we got carried away with the rhetoric of punishment." But the biggest part of the problem is "proximity". We're too far away from the poor. We don't understand. And we fail not just them, but ourselves. You judge a society not by how it treats its rich. But how it treats its poor.Am I imagining this? Or is there a touch of Martin Luther King about Bryan Stevenson? Hmm. Or is this possibly a touch of TED fever talking...Anyway, we're off on a break now. Back at 2.15pm (PST) with "The Design Studio".Block 112.23pm:So, it's time for the "D" in TED, "Design". (It's Technology, Entertainment and Design, though the Liberian Nobel prize winner, Leymah Gbowee, said at lunchtime that when she was asked to come and speak at TED, she assumed "he was an old, fat, white guy"). Actually, he still is a bit. Most TEDsters are, ahem, middle-aged white guys. (Leymah was speaking at a women's lunch where they were cheering that there are now 250 of them "as opposed to around 40 a few years ago" but that's still only 250 out of 1,500...)Anyway, this session is called "The Design Studio" and the first speaker is the book designer,Chip Kidd. And there's lots of pretty pictures of his work righthere.Block 122.31pm:Wow. Chip Kidd or Truman Capote? That's possibly the campiest, archest, most theatrical TED talk ever. About book jackets. Who would have guessed? If you're an author, though, you want Kidd designing your book.He did Augusten Burrough's drinking-and-rehab memoir,Drywhich uses what he calls "typography in denial"."I wanted the type to look like it's lying to you," he says. "Like an alcoholic."A book cover, he says, is a distillation. A haiku of the story. And, they look better on books. Actual paper thingies of which he's an unapologetic champion. "The first thing John Updike used to do when he received a new book was to smell it. To run his hands over it. Try experiencingthaton a Kindle."Books, he says, give you "the comfort of thingyness".He gets a cheer from this. Possibly some people even waved their iPads. I think this may be what Tali Sharot earlier called "cognitive dissonance".Block 132.57pm:Hmm. Seems like not everyone like Sherry Turkle's talk:Condescending RT @TEDNews: @STurkle: Our phones r so psychologically powerful they don't only change what we do, they change who we are#TED&mdash; Jeff Jarvis (@jeffjarvis)March 1, 2012I think this might be called an online spat. The gurus go head to head. Whose side are you on? Personally, I'm with Team Turkle.Block 143.09pm:I likethis. How Michael Crichton responded to Chip Kidd's cover design. Now that's simple, bold typography.Anyway, up now isDavid Kelley, founder of Ideo, and the designer's design guru.Don't worry though, he's not talking about chairs but "creative confidence".And how he found it through cancer. "The bad kind."He shows a photo of "human-centred design", an MRI machine for kids, decorated with pirates, that has reduced the need for sedation by 70 per cent. But it was when waiting for his own MRI that he had his epiphany."While you're sitting around in your pyjamas you think about a lot of things. What was I put on earth to do? What's my calling? And I decided if I survived, the thing I most wanted to do was to help as many people as possible to regain their creative confidence."And I survived, he says. "Just so you know.""The world is not full of creative and non-creative people. Everyone can be creative."Block 153.26pm:Interesting article in Businessweekhereabout how to get into TED. Not as a speaker, you understand, but as a member of the audience. Don't think you can just hand over your $7,500, and get a place. No, first you have to"apply for an invitation", first. Then fill out the "college-essay style questions".How would a friend describe your accomplishments? What are you passionate about? Share a story from your life that shows what makes you tick.Businessweek gives the example of the director of a non-profit who applied eight straight times before being accepted at the offshoot, TEDWomen. Blimey. Frankly, you might as well go for glory and apply to be a speaker at theX-Factor-style auditions in London next month.Block 16just watched @jonronsonin rehearsal at#ted. odd to find yourself crying with laughter at stories of psychopathy, but there we have it&mdash; Helen Walters (@HelenWalters)March 1, 20123.46pm:So as it says in the headline, The Guardian's very own Jon Ronson is up later and it looks like he's getting good buzz:Block 17Rehearsing for tonight. Now won't be able to release my killer robot hummingbird as the DARPA woman beat me to it#TED&mdash; jonronson (@jonronson)March 1, 20123.49pm:Though looks like he's had to make some last-minute changes....Block 184.01pm:So fairly or unfairly, the design talks have a reputation for being a little bit, how can I put this delicately?, dull. This talk byJohn Hockenberryis about as undull as they come though.He's a journalist, he explains, not a designer. Though his father was one, so he knew about design."But 36 years ago this week, I was in a poorly designed automobile on a poorly designed road in Pennsylvania with a poorly designed guardrail, and I plunged 200 feet down an embankment. Two people in the car died. I didn't I've go that going for me. But now I roll into a room."I'm a victim of poor design. And now I'm at the mercy of good design and bad design."Hockenberry is in his wheelchair on stage, and he rolls around to demonstrate the fact that he has disco wheels which light up."Now instead of blank stares and awkwardness, I get smiles and questions.  I'm no longer a victim. I'm now the commander of the star ship. I have intent. I choose to enhance this rollng experence with a simple design element. I have covered the tragic tune with something different."Block 194.21pm:Intent, says Hockenberry, is everything.If Anders Brevik, the Norwegian mass murderer, intended to kill, he's a criminal, he says. But if was motivated by a random mental illness, it's a completely diferent domain. He's not a criminal, but the breath of some random, ancient chaos.Design is intent."And an object imbued with intent has power. We are drawn to it. An object without intent repels us. Intent is what we must demand from our lives."It's a powerful talk even when he picks up the guitar at the side of the stage and sings a Beatles' song.And it's about a design.Andthere's not a funny chair in sight. Result. No wonder he gets a standing ovation. This one's going straight up theted.comcharts, I'll wager...Block 204.31pm:Right. Short break now. But back at 5pm (PST) with "The Campfire": Joshua Foer, Jon Ronson, and Abigail Washburn, among others.But this was shown yesterday: it's how Ridley Scott envisions a TED talk in 2023.It's a teaser for Prometheus, Scott's new film, and his long-awaited return to sci-fi. (It's also not, totally, ahem, un-life-like. "I shall change the world. Oh, yes, I shall...")Block 214.58pm:TED coffee break:Tali Sharot, the neuroscientist, who spoke earlier about the optimism bias, is deep in conversation with a man who identifies himself as a lawyer."We handle hundreds of pre-nups and divorces a year," he says."So what do you think your chances of getting divorced are?""What is the rate now?" he says. "About 46%?""Yes, but what your ownpersonalchances of getting divorced?"The lawyer ponders. "About one in ten."Ah! Even lawyers have hearts. Though Tali says that according to the Wall Street Journal, lawyers are the least optimistic profession in America. But then, that's probably sound financial sense. Death, divorce, limbs severed in nasty industrial accidents - all good business, all good business.Anyway,Jared Ficklinup next who's a bit of a real life hep cat. He's "a Senior Principal Design Technologist at frog [sic] design" but he also doesweirdstuff with fire and as a sideline, designs, funds and builds free public skateparks.But then everyone needs a hobby.He's very probably also the only speaker at TED who has an Etsy shop.Yep, head over there for all yourcymatic artneeds.Block 225.20pm:So Jared Ficklin is up on stage with a bottle of propane and flame thrower. This could getfun.Ah! We have dancing flames...they're flickering to a 550 herz frequency. The audience applauds. "Which is fine if you want to applaud the laws of physics, though what is actually happening is..." (Seecymatics, below)Jared specialises in visualising things, things like sound, in strange in unusual ways. With flames or graphs. "And I speculate that deaf audiences might be better at seeing sound than hearing audiences."Here's Jared's "flame table" on YouTube. That's fire dancing to music."I leave you with this. Sound moves in all directions," he says. "And so do ideas."Block 235.31pm:SoJoshua Foeris up now. The author ofMoonwalking with Einsteinwhich details his year of training to compete in the US National Memory Championships.And how it happened was like this. He went to the memory championships and happened to meet "a wonderful, intelligent but somewhat eccentric English guy" called Ed Cooke.Here's Ed talking at last year'sTEDxObserver. He was a bit of a card.Block 245.47pm:Foer was going to write about the US National Memory Championship. The problem was, "memory championships are pathologically boring events". So he got Ed to teach him how to remember.And he discovered this: that anyone can learn how to remember, he says. "It's a trick."The basic method of which is the same that the was used in ancient Greece:the method of loci, otherwise known as "the memory palace".Foer proved the point so successfully that he won the championship. [There's a TED gasp at this point, but then again he just shown a photo of one of his fellow competitors who can memorise 36 shuffled decks of card in an hour, and 4,000 binary numbers in 30 minutes).And, here comes the take-home message."Great memories are learned. Great memories happen when we are deeply engaged....Our lives are the sum of our memories. And if you want to lead a memorable life you have to be the kind of person who remembers to remember.""Hmm. Good talk, well delivered, but Ed had better gags.Block 255.59pm:Oh, it's just a whole load of easy-to-learn new tricks at TED today. So, after the how-to-learn-36-packs-of-shuffled cards, we've now got how-to-walk-on-a-wire-between-the-tallest-buildings-in-the-world. Yep, it'sPhilippe Petit, theMan on Wirehimself.How do you learn to walk a wire? "I created the widest tightrope in the world and made it smaller every day. It turns out this is how not to learn wire-walking."Non! Petit says one needs intuition and tenacity and inspiration and faith and passion and feet, possibly, which are on the small-ish side...."And when you see mountains, remember mountains can be moved..."(Possibly this sounds better with rather a thick French accent.) Anyway, Philippe's talk won't be up for a while so a little reminder here....Block 266.19pm:And here'sJon Ronson. The Guardian's emissary in the land of TED. It's called "the campfire" this session, and Ronson's talk on the subject of his latestbook- psychopaths, isn't just a talk it's coming complete with spooky music and creepy pictures."It all began," he says "When I was around a friend's house. And I started to leaf through the DSM manual, the manual of mental disordersIf you've read the book, or theextractin the Guardian, you'll be familiar with the story of how Ronson met Tony, a patient in Broadmoor, the secure psychiatric hospital, who tells him how he faked madness to get out of a prison sentence. But had then been diagnosed as a psychopath. And had been indefinitely incarcerated for 12 years.But he's telling it with added TED-ness.Not least when he says that it's reckoned that one in 100 people in normal life are psychopaths."And there's 1,500 people here, which means that one in five of you are psychopaths. Except that four per cent of CEOs and business leaders are. So there's a very good chance that there's 30 or 40 of you in this room."It could be carnage by the end of the night."Good to know that the CEO of Coca Cola is out there....I expect he's enjoying this bit."Capitalism at its most ruthless rewards psychopathic behaviour...In fact capitalism is a type of corporate psychopathy that has come to affect us all."Shame they didn't preface this session with a "this is a message to our partners" message.Block 277.04pm:Anyway, it may be time for me to sign out soon. Ronson has just suggested that journalists are almost certainly psychopathic. Or at least act a little bit psychopathically. Speak for yourself, Ronson."When we interview people, we [journalists] wait for the gems. And the gems are the outermost aspects of our subjects' personalities which we stitch together like medieval monks and leave the normal stuff behind."Hmmm.Oh God, he's taken a vow of journalistic obedience."And I'm not going to do it any more. You shouldn't define people by their extreme examples. The grey areas are where you find the complexity, the humanity, the truth."Anyway.....maybe we'll leave it there. Not least because there is  now a rather mesmerising American woman playing the clawhammer banjo and singing the blues. In Mandarin. It'sAbigail Washburn, a TED fellow, and I have to say, a true original. (She dropped out of law school in the US and moved to China. Hence, you know, the Chinese.)I'll leave you with her. And say goodnight. Back tomorrow morning, 8.30am (PST) see y'all right back here for the fourth and final day of TED.2012
Ubisoft has announced the first details of forthcoming action adventure sequel, Assassin's Creed III. The third title in the publisher's hit series is set to take place during the American Revolution.No screenshots have been released, although the box art has been revealed, showing an unnamed assassin character battling with a downed Red Coat soldier. It seems that the war between the assassins and the Templars has moved on from the Renaissance setting of Assassin's Creed II, to the New World.US magazine Game Informer hasan exclusive feature on the game. Its cover shows the character carrying a pistol and a tomahawk, whch may suggest a Native American aspect to the plot.The Assassin's Creed series has been a huge success for Ubisoft, selling over 30 million units since the first title, set during the Crusades.Nothing else is known at present, although Ubisoft is promising to announce all the details at 5pm on 5 March. The game is expected to release on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 this winter.So, the American Revolution then – what do you Assassin's fans think about that?
AtTED2012, the University of Pennsylvania's deputy dean for education Vijay Kuma showed off his latest accomplishment in robotics: a co-ordinated rendition of the James Bond theme song.Kumar and other Grasp (General Responsibility Assignment Software Patterns) Lab members Daniel Melligner and Alex Kushleyev have been working to help scientists and engineers create smarter, faster, and more flexible robots by mimicking the swarming behaviors of birds, fish and insects,according to the University of Pennsylvania.The video has since gone viral and is getting thousands of hits an hour. We, for one, welcome our new quadrotor overlords.
Every game has a natural habitat. A zombie horror such as Resident Evil should be played at night, alone in the house, with the lights out and the speakers up loud. A&nbsp;singing game demands to be played by drunk friends, or in the bedroom of a preening teenybopper. A beat-em-up is best with rowdy mates playing winner-stays-on. A puzzler such as Bejeweled is for wasting time on deadline day. And, if you can wangle it, sci-fi epicMass Effect 3(PS3/Xbox 360/PC) ought to be played on the largest screen at the local cinema. With a bucket of popcorn, a paper bag of pick'n'mix and an oversized cup of Coke.Why? Because it's one of those games that happens to be a blockbuster film as well. Or close enough. The Mass Effect series – of which this is the third and final instalment – was always intended to be a trilogy, and ME3 brings the space opera to a climactic close with a total, apocalyptic war. Think Lord of the Rings: The Return of&nbsp;the King but in a galaxy far far away. (I realise that's Return of the Jedi. Bear with me.)The story of the trilogy defies simplification, not least because it unfolds differently depending onplayer choice. Governments fall, friends and enemies are made, whole races live or die by your decisions, so that by the third game, loading a save from the first two radically changes the world you wake up to in ME3.The plot varies from player to player but, in a nutshell: the year is 2183, and you are Commander Shepard (male orfemale, depending on your preference), a military leader and reluctant messiah not just to mankind but all the many alien races of the galaxy. Said galaxy, naturally, is under threat of annihilation. In this case by the Reapers – a race of vast, space-faring sentient machines that look a bit like shrimp and swing by every few millennia to say hi, chillax for a while and then destroy all life as we know it.The aforementioned aliens, meanwhile, are busy quarrelling among themselves. As a result, they're not quite giving due attention to the everything-annihilating robots on their intergalactic doorsteps, and in the third game it falls to you to convince your would-be allies to snap out of it, man up and put their armies at your disposal before everyone and everything becomes big machine-shrimp&nbsp;food.Even just playing through the ME3 demo –available for download now– means watching something close to 10&nbsp;minutes of breathtaking cinematics. What's most striking about them is how fine the line between cut-scene and gameplay has become. As with all the best action epics, every penny is up on screen. Character movement feels entirely natural because it is: for many scenes real actors' movements were used via motion-capture technology. Some of the game's interiors were actually built life-size in studios, with key scenes acted out in them and then transformed into computer graphics.Then there isthe cast. These aren't just jobbing voice actors. If the game were to trade on its casting, the names at the top of the poster would be The West Wing'sMartin Sheenand The Matrix's Carrie-Anne Moss. Keen-eared gamers will recognise at least half a dozen more, from Firefly's Adam Baldwin to Family Guy's Seth Green. The game'sIMDb pagelists more than 50 voice actors in total. They are much-needed. With numerous paths through each conversation, the full game is estimated to contain more than 30,000 lines of dialogue.The music, too, belongs to the world of the big screen.Clint Mansell– who scored Black Swan, The Wrestler and Requiem for a Dream – heads up an impressive team of half a dozen composers tasked with capturing thecataclysmic grandeur of the series&nbsp;finale.At times, the whole thing is so ludicrously filmicit nearly ceases to be a game at all. Sure, there is shooting to be done, and skulls to crack, and characters to level up and equip, but it all feels almost like a list of chores. The gameplay's not bad – in fact, it's excellent, overflowing withachingly cool combat tricksand nifty level design – but when it stands between the player and a story this compelling it's very tempting to set the difficulty as low as it goes, race through each mission and sit back with that popcorn to watch the movie.Silver-screen gaming has arrived. Like a horde of evil robot shrimp. Be&nbsp;prepared.
Google provides tools for controlling your personal information, and a handy dashboard for your various accounts. Use theprivacy tools pageto opt out of tracking.The dashboard shows your use of most Google services, even if the accounts are under different names. You can edit or remove some information, but the ultimate sanction is to go toaccount settingsand delete everything. At least delete yourweb browsing history.Block trackingWhile Google's "opt out" cookies are useful, there are independent browser plug-ins that aim to block wider attempts to track you. Abine's Do Not Track Plus is a leading free example. Alternatives include Ghostery and TrackerBlock.Private browsingMany web browsers now include a "private browsing" feature – InPrivate Browsing in Microsoft's Internet Explorer, Incognito in Google's Chrome, and Private Browsing in Firefox and Apple's Safari – to protect your browsing habits from other family members, but they also help protect your privacy online.Restrict your use of Gmail, Facebook and similar sites to private browser windows – other sites will find it harder to track the connection.Anonymous browsing sitesWebsites identify the IP (internet protocol) address you use to access the web. So, instead of going directly to a website, go via one or more intermediate websites, or proxies, so it can't see where you started. Various "anonymous proxy" websites – some free, some commercial – make this simple. Examples include hidemyass.com, anonymouse.org, Proxify and Megaproxy.The most comprehensive anonymous browsing service is the peer-to-peer Tor (The onion router) network. However, free proxy services tend to be slow, will not access certain sites, will not download large files, and have other measures to prevent abuse.Don't give away informationYour personal information is valuable, so try to avoid giving too much away. Instead of using mainly Google sites (Gmail, Blogger, YouTube, Picasa etc) use different sites such as DuckDuckGo for search, Hotmail for email, Flickr for photos and so on, preferably using different names.When you provide accurate data, eg on Facebook and LinkedIn, don't provide unnecessary detail, and use the privacy controls to limit access.If you can avoid social networks altogether, that should also increase your privacy.
The European commissioner of justice, Viviane Reding, has delivered a stinging rebuke to Google over changes to its privacy policy, warning that "we aren't playing games here" and pointing out that the obligation to protect personal data forms a part of European treaties.In an exclusive interview with the Guardian as Google's new privacy rules came into effect, Reding said: "Any company which wants to utilise the European market of 500 million citizens – which we've made borderless, a golden opportunity – then the European rules apply."She said that if people gave up their privacy, it should be done in full knowledge, and not by "sneaking" it away.Google faced widespread criticism as it implemented its policy at midnight on 1 March, uniting its code of practice across up to 60 services including Google Search, YouTube, Blogger, Gmail and others.Late on Wednesday night it emerged that theFrench data protection authority, the CNIL, had written to the giant search engine company on 27 Februaryand said: "Our preliminary analysis shows that Google's new policy does not meet the requirements of the [1995] European directive on data protection." The CNIL said it would lead a Europe-wide inquiry into the changes.While they simplify the joining process for new users, the changes also mean that Google can pool data about signed-in users' web or video searches, map directions, web browsing, which ads have been clicked, and other information in order to target adverts and services at people using the web. Google has a huge share of the search market in Europe, providing about 90% of searches across the continent – far ahead of the US, where its share is below 70% – and 97% of its $10bn (£6.2bn) revenues in the last quarter of 2011 came from "serving advertising" – ie placing ads on websites.In a forthright interview, Reding said that she would aim to restore a level playing field between "European companies which abide by the [data protection] law and companies from outside Europe which don't abide by the law. So we will give the Europeans new rules which will bring back a level playing field and legal certainty, and will protect private data of the citizens."She added that the data protection commissioners in the 27 EU countries had "strong doubts" that Google's changes were legal. "They are deeply concerned," she said, adding that her proposed reforms to the 1995 privacy directive "make it crystal clear for the future that companies must ensure that their privacy policies are written in clear, everyday language, and that consumers are informed about who is using their data, and in which way, and for what purposes, so they can make an informed choice."She added that "citizens should have the possibility of buying into more extensive use of their data – but that should be their freedom to choose, not done by a sneaking way of taking the freedom away from the citizens".The 1995 directive was outdated, she said: "When it came in, the creator of Facebook was just 11 years old, and only 1% of people had internet access."Reding is a powerful figure in the European commission who has clashed repeatedly with Google over issues about data use, most recently over her proposal that European citizens should have a "right to be forgotten" – so that people could see what data a company holds about them, and demand its correction or removal, even from search engine indexes. Googlerespondedthat the responsibility lay with the creator of the content, not the search engines that index it.The reforms could also see companies breaching rules fined up to 2% of global turnover. "In the case we're talking about, that would be up to €560m," she said. "But the idea of the reform isn't to give us fines but to be dissuasive enough so companies have compliance with the rules."Calls for Google to put its changes on hold went unheeded, and the company carried on with the unification. It insisted on Thursday that it had consulted widely about the changes.Peter Fleischer, Google's global privacy counsel, said: "Over the past month we have asked to meet with the CNIL on several occasions to answer any questions they might have, and that offer remains open. We are committed to providing our users with a seamless experience across Google's services, and to making our privacy commitments to them easy to understand."But opposition has been growing. The Conservative MP David Davis, a prominent campaigner on civil liberties, said: "If the state collected the amount of information on individuals as Google does there would be uproar."If Google continues to deliberately and sometimes covertly intrude on people's privacy then they are inviting countries to legislate to limit the freedom of action of all web companies."This would not necessarily be a good outcome. Companies with leadership like Google should think very hard before they over-exploit their dominant position."Jim Killock, of the Open Rights Group, which campaigns on digital rights, said: "Google didn't ask us if we, their customers, minded our data being merged and used in new ways. Most people will have no choice but to put up with the change. That is wrong and we believe Google have broken the law."This is exactly why we need strong data protection laws. Without better protection, why should citizens trust big companies to do the right thing? Google has acted with no regard to the consequences."Reding said that it was fine for Google to use the data – but it needed peoples' informed consent. "The choice is not with the company – the choice is with the people. It's for the individual to judge. If the indidvidual wants their data to be sold to third parties, searched by advertisers – if an individual agrees to this, that's up to the individual. But the choice is not with the company, the choice is with the people, that is European law."The Guardian asked Reding if she used Google. She declined to answer.
For an overweight cop with a predilection for booze and pills, Max Payne is certainly a graceful soul. As I control him through a bottleneck of armed thugs in an executive club bar at a football stadium, I'm stunned by the smooth, agile way in which he hurdles over a handrail, pouring bullets into his foes.He lands heavily on his shoulder, rolls over on the floor and whirls back to his feet, snapping a clip into the submachine gun in his hand with a satisfying clack. He then leaps to his right, smashing through a glass panelled divide in the room. It fragments into a glistening shower as Max draws a bead on the last opponent he has standing, and the firing pin slams home. The camera switches to just behind the bullet, and follows it across the room as it ploughs the head of Max's last target. Ringo Lam would be proud.Of course, everything I've just witnessed – just played through – was presented in bullet-time, the slow-motion visual style made famous in Hong Kong action cinema's hey-day, and coated with leather and shades in the Wachowski Brothers' Matrix films. It's always been a tactical feature of the Max Payne series since Finnish developer Remedy Entertainment produced the first game. But while it comes in handy in the gun battles in all three games, it has to be said – it looks so damn cool.And in Max Payne 3, it's never looked better. As one watches bullets chew through wood and tiling, shell casings pop out of shotgun breaches and Max himself execute a 180 degree whirl in slow motion bullet-time, it's hard to imagine the game having the same visual impact from a first-person-perspective. FPS games rule the roost in the shooter market, sure, but this sort of animation – this sort of movement – wouldn't be possible in that genre, and it certainly wouldn't look as mouth-watering as it does here.The Euphoria engine running all the action on screen looks utterly flawless. There's no clipping, no pop-in and no frame-rate crawl, regardless of how many enemies are on the screen. Not only that, the controls feel great. The left and right triggers are the snap-aim and fire functions respectively. Alongside being able to choose the overall game difficulty, players can toggle the ease with which they aim; they can opt for immediate snap-to-target, intermediate where the crosshairs snap to the target's general vicinity, or they can leave the crosshairs completely unfettered.Max executes a forward role if the player hits the A button, and if they tap it repeatedly he'll go into a sprint. The right bumper launches the game's shoot/dodge function, where Max leaps into the air sideways, emptying his weapons in a slow motion jump. Unlike previous iterations, players need to roll Max away once he lands, unless they fancy shooting foes from a prone position.It's worth taking in Max's surroundings before deploying the shoot/dodge move; during my playing time I managed to launch Max over the back row of some stadium bleachers, and have him fall seven rows while emptying a pair of Mac 11's. It looked absolutely brilliant, but as he landed, Max took so much damage that his enemies were able to pick him off with one shot. That having been said, shoot/dodge is probably the best way to break cover, which Max can enter if the player presses the X button. When attached to the edge of a wall, Max can be made to lean out to check his surroundings ever so slightly by flicking the left stick.Max's arsenal has been pared down quite considerably from previous games, where, by the final levels, players could carry up to  ight or nine weapons, as well as the odd grenade and Molotov cocktail. The variety of weapons available in Max Payne 3 is still rather wide, but Max can now only carry three firearms at a time – two handguns and one rifle or shotgun – alongside thrown weapons.These are mapped to the left bumper, which brings up a wheel menu offering the choice between the different weapons. Players can also opt to dual-wield their pair of handguns, but if they do, Max will drop whatever two-handed weapon he's currently holding.So Max handles very well and he has plenty of tools to hurl lead at opponents. The last aspect that rounds out the control system is bullet-time, which is activated by clicking in the left stick. Bullet-time slows all the action down on screen, allowing the player to quickly target multiples opponents. The effect looks and feels cinematic and superhuman at the same time; Max's movements become almost balletic as he whirls between opponents, firing round after round, and the soundtrack becomes a series of muffled thumps and screams. The entire screen takes on a brighter hue, as though it's been captured on colour-reversal stock.Not only does it look eye-poppingly good, bullet-time is a key ingredient in game's level design and dominates the way in which players have to approach different set pieces.In one instance, they'll need to have a filled bullet-time meter as they provide covering fire with a sniper rifle for one of Max's friends who is fleeing armed pursuers through a stadium. In another they'll need to deploy it to cut down goons who are trying to flank Max around a square ball-training pen.Players will need to keep an eye on their bullet-time meter, which appears in the bottom of the screen alongside Max's health meter. It's not an inexhaustible supply, and they'll need to keep it filled by executing moves like rolls, dodges and headshots. The more bullet-time they have, the more of an edge Max has on any bullet-slinging scenario.Max Payne 3 blurs the line between hyper-cool action cinema and cold realism. Imagine a film written and directed for the most part by Michael Mann, but whose action scenes were all choreographed and shot by John Woo, and you're starting to get the picture. This gritty hyper-reality is evident in all of the presentation and it also informs the game's plot.Max has relocated from New York City to Sao Paulo after being fired from the NYPD. A friend named Raul Passos has been working as security for a wealthy family called the Brancos, and he's offered Max a way out of his troubled situation. Upon arriving in Sau Paulo, Max learns that most of his job involves keeping an eye on Fabiana Branco, the young and reckless trophy wife of the head of the Branco family, Rodrigo. Presumably because bad luck follows Max around like a stray puppy, it's not long before a street gang called Comando Sombra kidnaps Fabiana and issues the Brancos with a ransom demand.After a brief meeting in which the Brancos agree to pay up, Max and Raul offer to handle the drop, which is scheduled to take place at the football stadium of Sao Paulo's top team, the Galatians. Just as Max and Raul are about to hand over the money to Comando Sombra members, shots ring out from the stands above them and a sniper's bullet bites through Max's arm. He, Raul and the gang members scatter. Max and Raul then regroup in the stadium's infirmary and set about getting the money back. As they prowl through the stadium, they discover that a group of unidentified men in paramilitary gear are behind the sniper attack, and they want the ransom money too.A lesser developer would probably take that scenario and use it to hang action set-pieces on, and while Rockstar certainly makes sure the player gets a lot of bang for their buck, it's interesting to see how they push the narrative throughout the level. Each gunfight seems to throw up more questions about Max's predicament. Who are these well-armed individuals who crashed the drop? How did they know about it? Who fed them the information and who is backing their play? And, as Max himself intones towards the end of the level, why, after they've all spent about an hour shooting up Sao Paulo's cathedral to football, haven't the cops shown up?Max and Raul leave the stadium without the money, but they do learn where Comando Sombra is holding Fabiana. Max offers to break into the gang's hideout and get her back, and it's here that Max Payne 3 showcases even more variety in its level design and style of play. The gang is holed up in a ramshackle series of warehouses by the docks, and as Max arrives, a torrential thunderstorm is well under way.This sets up two approaches the player can choose between. They can charge into the fray, guns blazing – after all, this is Max Payne 3 – or they can use the rainstorm as cover and use a silenced weapon to draw as little attention to themselves as possible.Rockstar have clearly put a lot of effort into making Max Payne 3 one of this year's premier shooters. The game looks fantastic, handles beautifully and the depth of content in both its in-game design and settings seems to offer a ton of replay value. Not only that, it's story, which is set up in such a straightforward manner, seems to hint that intriguing denouement is on the cards for the game's titular character.Players should look forward to a tale of greed, betrayal and decadence wrapped in sleek, cool mechanics that allow them to tackle it one bullet at a time.• Max Payne 3 will be released for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 18 May
A war of ideals has broken out atTED 2012.Peter DiamandisandPaul Gildinghave given opposing (and sequential) talks on the state of the Earth's resources.Diamandis made a case for optimism – that we'll invent, innovate and create ways to solve the challenges that loom over us.According to Diamandis, we are living in an extraordinary time. In fact, this is the BEST time ever. And exponentially growing technologies are going to make it even better.Gilding took another approach: "I'm here to tell you: the the Earth is full. It's game over."Gilding says that we just can't go on as we are. We're over-using the earth's resources. And it's just a matter of time before it catches up with us.We want to know what you think: Doomsday or utopia?Tweet usyour vote using #tedutopia #teddoomsday.Peter Diamandis: Abundance is our futurePaul Gilding: The Earth is fullWe asked you to weigh in on Twitter, here's what you said:Ted Talks: optimism beats pessimism...gu.com/p/35pmz/twvia @guardian#tedutopia&mdash; Ricardo Tavares (@rjtavares)March 1, 2012@GuardianUS#teddoomsdayWe're having a larger mass species extinction than any in the geological record. Extinct means gone forever.&mdash; Stephen Stewart (@stewartetcie)March 1, 2012@GuardianUSPaul and Peter agree on the radical transition ahead, Paul focused more on the pressure to change, Peter on a possible solution.&mdash; Richard (@ro2778)March 1, 2012
They may be familiar, but the stats around Angry Birds remain startling, starting with the franchise's 700m downloads across all platforms – a figure likely to top 1bn sometime in 2012.The original iPhone game is the biggest-selling paid app ever on both the UK and US App Stores according to Apple, with follow-ups Angry Birds Seasons and Angry Birds Rio also in the top 10 in both countries.More than 1m people have reviewed the Android version of Angry Birds on Google's Android Market, and Rovio has sold 25m plush toys so far.On the back of that, there are now more than 20,000 licensed Angry Birds products on sale, from board games and books through to t-shirts, shoes and sweets. A theme park is on the way in Finland, while Angry Birds shops will soon launch in China.Peter Vesterbacka's job is to fly around the world telling journalists and conference audiences these numbers, while also working on the company's marketing strategy. Does Rovio's 'Mighty Eagle' not worry that Angry Birds might be getting a little… over-exposed?"We say no all the time: every day and every hour," says Vesterbacka."From the outside, you can see we're doing quite a few things, but there are even more things that we're not doing. But our guiding principle has always been to surprise and delight. How can we do something that is different and bigger than anything that has been done before. We're going for crazy numbers and crazy scale."I sat down with Vesterbacka at the Mobile World Congress show in Barcelona, where he'd picked up a GSMA award for Best Mobile App for Consumers for Angry Birds Rio.He's become a recognisable figure at mobile and media industry events, with his ever-present red Angry Birds hoodie. In print, his statements often sound bullish – and to critics, verging on arrogance – but in the flesh, he has remained approachable and enthusiastic even as Angry Birds has grown into a phenomenon."There is no role model: nobody has done what we're doing before," he says."We want to create a long-lasting, global brand. This is very important though: we hope we know what we're doing, but we don't always. We're learning every day, and getting better in the toy business, the book business, the games business… It's okay to make mistakes, especially if you're going into new areas and doing things differently."Walk into any mobile games industry conference, and you'll find some executives wondering aloud when the world will get tired of Angry Birds. Yet the series' popularity has been accelerating, rather than dropping off.It took five months to reach 10m downloads of the original Angry Birds, but 79 days for its sequel Angry Birds Seasons, and then just eight days for Angry Birds Rio. On Christmas Day 2011 alone, the three games were downloadedmore than 6.5m times.Next up is Angry Birds Space, with a22 March launchthat will include a game, animated content, physical products and books. Rovio is working with NASA on the project, and National Geographic on the book, with more products to come."It's the first time we have everything available on launch day: animation, toys, books, candy, everything," says Vesterbacka. "It's massive: most Hollywood movies don't have this. And this is just the first phase of our space programme. There is more to come."Angry Birds has been more than a game for some time now: it's a mainstream entertainment franchise with a huge and global reach – Vesterbacka claims it's "the most copied brand in China" already, which is what led to the retail strategy there.But yes, entertainment. "Some of our competitors are in the business of play. We are in the business of entertaining people. That's why we bought the animation studio, and are creating books. It's about creating amazing entertainment experiences." says Vesterbacka."One thing we know how to do pretty well is games, but that's not the only way to entertain people."That said, he thinks Angry Birds has been part of the wider trend for games to find an audience beyond the people who owned consoles and handhelds before the rise of Facebook social games and smartphone apps."It's a very important point: every day I hear from people who say they never played games, but they play Angry Birds," says Vesterbacka."We have expanded the market for games, and there are now more gamers, even if they don't view themselves as gamers. Gaming is more mainstream than ever: games are normal now. Not even Nintendo managed to do that with the Wii. Angry Birds is now 700m-plus downloads, and soon to be a little bit more. And that's why we don't think Angry Birds is going to go away any time soon. It's not just a game."One of Rovio's team sporting an Angry Birds sports jacket at Mobile World CongressAnother reason Angry Birds may be sticking around is its community of fans. In October 2011, Rovio said the games had 30m daily active users (DAUs), although that's likely to be higher now.This network is the starting point for marketing new Angry Birds games and products. "We are launching several new games this year," says Vesterbacka."We're launching many more, all around Angry Birds. This year we're seeing a lot of the projects that we started last year become real."The network may also be opening out for other developers and entertainment companies in the coming months. For example, Rovio's chief executive Mikael Hedmooted partnerships with music labels and artistsat the Midem conference in January."When we used to talk to a lot of people, they would offer to help us with distribution," says Vesterbacka. "Now, we happen to have the biggest distribution network on the planet. We can take their content and distribute it to our fans."Facebook is the other new frontier for Angry Birds, with the game having launched on the social network in mid-February 2012. Just over two weeks later, it has 3.9m monthly active users (MAUs) and 930k DAUs, according to analytics site AppData.A key new element for the Facebook version of Angry Birds is its four new power-ups: King Sling, Super Seeds, Sling Scope and Birdquake, joining the Mighty Eagle one that made its debut in the mobile game. All can be earned through gameplay, gifted by friends and purchased for between $1 and $40 on Facebook.Vesterbacka says Rovio doesn't just see these power-ups as ways to make the free Facebook game make money. They were designed with an eye on the broader merchandise business too.""We launched four new power-ups, not 10 or 400. We designed them to be iconic. When we were designing them, we asked ourselves 'Are these good enough for somebody to walk around in a t-shirt with them on?'"The power-ups are more like characters than pure monetisation mechanics, in other words. And monetisation in freemium games is something Vesterbacka has strong views on, tied in to his belief that Rovio needs to create fans, not just consumers."We don't want to create 100 crap things you can buy in the game, then hope something will stick and 2% of your fans will buy it," he says. "If only 2% of your most loyal fans buy what you're creating, then you've created something that's not very good."
Someone's been reading your email. They know what you've been looking at online. They almost certainly have a photograph of your house. If you've got a smartphone, they even know where you've been and what you'll be doing next week.It's not a new hacking saga, though; it's the standard business practices of the ubiquitous internet firm Google, which from Thursday will, for the first time, be able tojoin together everything it knows about youto customise its services and hone its advertising more effectively.There's a mantra in certain online communities which says if you're getting a service for free, you are not that company's customer – you're the product. Google's core product is its huge wealth of information on the people who use its services, which allows for the sale of highly targeted and effective advertisements to those same people.The company has no shortage of information to collect. Google has a 78% share of the search engine market, dwarfing by far its nearest rival, Baidu, the Chinese search operator. Around 350 million people use its gmail product, and some 3bn videos are played every day onYouTube, which is owned by Google.It has around half of the global smartphone market and can collect location information from these devices. It even has a fifth of all internet browsers and almost half of the online advertising share.Google has been able to use the troves of information collected from these platforms for a long time. Its computers "read" the content of all its users' emails to hone the adverts that run in the email window. Search engine history is used to learn about what kind of person you are and how you use the web, to bettertarget adverts so they deliver better results.From this week, all this information can be linked together. Information gained from your phone could be used to deliver a local ad in your online search results. A YouTube history consisting of karaoke singalongs may be used to inform recommendations of nearby bars on your smartphone. An email to a friend saying "I'm pregnant!" could conceivably lead to some maternity-wear ads elsewhere.Google says itschanges to privacy policiesare largely aimed at simplification. Each of its 70-plus services has had a separate policy until now, and these are being amalgamated into one. The policy will increase Google's ability to make money from its audience, but also improve the personal service it delivers to users. There is a win-win side to the changes.But not everyone is convinced. There is to be aEuropean investigationof Google's new policy to see if it complies with tough Europe-wide data protection regulations. Others are troubled by the slow creep of Google's collated information and how it uses it – never moving in big steps, but always advancing.Google has run foul of regulators on several occasions for collecting too much data. Its Street View service – which takes pictures of millions of streets around the world and ties them with its mapping service – was taken to the supreme court in Germany for invasion of privacy in 2011. Google won its case, butabandoned plans to expand the servicein Germany, partly because of this opposition.Street View faced another scandalwhen it emerged that private details of people's wi-fi networks were being collected by its camera cars, leading to all such data collection being stopped. Last year, the Guardian revealed that Google – just like Apple – had beentracking the movementsof people using its Android smartphones.One fear for Google's rivals is that its huge reach across search, mobile, video, social networking and advertising makes its vast cache of information almost impossible for smaller or more focused rivals to compete against.Its dossier of information on users also proves a source of concern to online activists. The company, whose headquarters is in California, is subject to search orders from the US government for any user, regardless of their nationality. Like other online businesses, Google complies with orders from governments. This was seen in a high-profile subpoeana for theemail records of the WikiLeaks supporter Jacob Applebaum. If a subpoena is sealed, a user may never even be told their details have been handed over. Google is, however, transparent inrevealing how many information requestsit gets. Between January and June 2011, it was asked by governments for data on 25,000 of its users worldwide, and complied in handing over the information in around 19,000 of the cases. The US government asked for details on 11,057 users, while the UK asked for 1,444.It's possible for users toopt out of Google's new privacy policy– at least partially – although it's fiddly to do. This prevents the information being used for advertising purposes and means it will be made anonymous after 18 months, but it doesn't prevent access by authorities.A small rival search service,DuckDuckGo, is marketing itself through a policy of not tracking its users nor tailoring results to individuals (known as "bubbling"), which it says can lead to users being shown only information they agree with, rather than seeing the full plethora of opinion on the web.For most users, however, there is clearly an acceptance of the trade-off of receiving high-quality, innovative, web services for free in exchange for giving the company the right to make money from the information it gathers in the process. This is the trade-off that makes the free web work – including the Guardian.The concern unique to Google is its scale. Opting out of the Guardian is relatively straightforward, but avoiding Google is far more difficult.For a young company, Google has come a long way. Its early and famous mantra of "don't be evil" evolved into an"evil scale"in 2006, when it  decided that offering filtered search results in China was the lesser of two evils, and so acceptable.The decision for Google's users with this new privacy change, and others in the future that will doubtless follow, is whether the company remains the lesser of evils – and whether they're willing to forgo the services it so ably provides if they feel it's not.
I am interested in using a tablet for reading and marking up Word and PDF documents. Ideally, this would involve underlining and adding comments. I am aware that both Windows and Android have software (eg, PDF Annotator for Windows and ezPDF reader for Android), and I want to avoid the walled world of an iPad. A stylus seems essential, and hand-writing recognition a bonus. Also, I'd like at least a 10in screen size for reading documents in portrait mode, where 16:9 seems too narrow. I have used a Lenovo X61 tablet with Wacom input, but for everyday use, it's too heavy!Nomadic11You sound like the target customer for the stylus-based tablets that Microsoft introduced a decade ago. These had a stylus with the precision required to replace a mouse – and thus operate existing Windows software – plus excellent handwriting recognition. However, they didn't sell, and the ThinkPad X61 convertible (which had both Wacom stylus input and an optional touch screen) was one of the best of its time. The current equivalent would be a Lenovo X201T or X220T, but if you find the X61T too heavy, I think these will be too.The best known tablet with a pressure-sensitive Wacom Active Digitizer screen is the ASUS EP121 Eee Slate. This ships with Microsoft Windows 7, but was one of the few products recommendedfor the first preview of Windows 8. It has a 12.1in screen showing 1280 x 800 pixels, which is an advance on the X61. It's also much more powerful, having an Intel Core i5 processor, 4GB of memory and 64GB of storage for about£1,000 at Amazon.co.uk. The weight is, I think, just about acceptable at 1.16kg – about the same as a MacBook Air – and compares with the X61T's 1.8kg.However, Samsung has now launched a Series 7 Slate with a similar specification and an 11.6in 1366 x 768-pixel screen. This is slimmer, lighter (860g) and faster than the Asus EP121, the battery lasts longer, and it doesn't cost much more at£1,021.76. If you want the same sort of functionality and versatility as an X61T, this could be the answer.Samsung is also bringing out the Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1, announced at the Mobile World Congress earlier this week. This is a 10.1in Android 4.0 tablet with a 1280 x 800-pixel screen and a pressure-sensitive S Pen digitiser. The weight is an impressive 583g, which is just less than an Apple iPad 2 (600g).Obviously, the Galaxy Note 10.1 is much less powerful than a Windows 7 slate, having a 1.4GHz dual-core ARM processor and 1GB of memory, and it won't run standard Windows software. But it can display PDF files, and you can always convert Word documents to PDF, so it may be good enough.Unfortunately, Samsung didn't mention a delivery date or price for the Galaxy Note 10.1. The mobile phone version of the Note, which has an S Pen and a 5.3in screen, costs around £500, so I'd expect the Note 10.1 to be cheaper than a Windows 7 slate.Some Android tablets have N-Trig digitisers, which are fine for highlighting texts or drawing simple diagrams. Based on my experience with the HTC Flyer, I wouldn't buy one for handwriting. It's like writing with fat, if very fluid, crayon.Another alternative would be to buy a Wacom digitising screen and run it from an existing PC. The sort of device that Wacom sells to graphic artists and photographers typically costs from £1,500 to £3,000, but there is a relatively affordable model, the Cintiq 12WX Interactive Pen Display. As the name implies, this has a 12.1in screen with a resolution of 1280 x 800 pixels, but it's not particularly light at 2kg (3.8lbs).The Cintiq 12WX might appeal because it's a relatively high quality digitiser and because you can use it with any Windows PC or Mac. It works like a second display screen, which means you won't have to buy another digitiser every time you buy a new PC. Amazon.co.uk currently offers the Cintiq 12WX for£773.40, reduced from £1,299.99. (I don't know if this means the 12WX, launched in 2007, is about to be replaced.)Having said all that, most people today seem to use Apple iPads for annotating and highlighting texts. It's a clunky process – like writing with a sausage – but you can make short notes if you write slowly on an enlarged view of the page and shrink the writing down. Or, of course, you can also use the on-screen keyboard to add much longer text annotations in a different font.There are loads of iPad applications that will annotate PDF files, such as iAnnotate, GoodReader and Scribble. GoodReader hasannotation features, can handle a lot of different file types, and also includes file management that the iPad lacks.Soonr'sScribblesays it can "mark up or annotate over 35 different file types, including PPT, XLS, and DOC, not just PDFs". It is also available for Android and Samsung devices.As always, it depends what you want to do, and how much you want to spend. If you were a graphic artist or photographer, then something like a Wacom Cintiq would be the obvious choice, preferably a 21UX. If you want to write notes with whole sentences and use handwriting recognition, then a Windows Slate will do the job, and the Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 might be an alternative (but that remains to be seen).However, if you want the equivalent of coloured highlighters/underliners and the ability to add a few punchy words, then you can easily do those with a tablet with a capacitative screen like the iPad. Millions of people do.Buying an iPad or Android tablet would also enable you to get a cheaper, lighter machine.Either way, I strongly recommend trying a few systems before you buy one, and trying to keep an open mind. A capacitative tablet like the iPad cannot (yet) offer the same kind of experience as a Windows Slate with a Wacom digitising system, and if you're familiar with something better, it's easy to react against a more limited device. But the real question is whether it can do the job.
2K Games has announced the release date for its much anticipated first-person 'shooter',Bioshock Infinite. The game – available for Xbox, PC and PS3 – will hit US stores on 16 October with an international release following on 19 October.The company's press release makes no mention of the PS Vita version of Bioshock, teased at last year's E3 exhibition in Los Angeles. However, that title is expected to be an original instalment in the best-selling series.Created by Massachusetts-based developer Irrational Games, Bioshock Infinite looks set to be one of the most fascinating releases of the year. Set in 1912 in an alternative steampunk version of the US, it follows a Pinkerton agent named Booker DeWitt who must escape the floating city of Columbia, together with a mysterious 'AI companion', Elizabeth.The game has drawn plaudits for its stunning visuals, featuring the same 'steampunk' universe as the previous two titles, but more-so for its background of domestic political unrest, with an established isolationalist government fighting an emerging culture of grass roots agitiation. Parallels have been drawn with the current Tea Party Movement.Designer Ken Levine has spoken about the way in which the game explores opposing interpretations of the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution and the Bill of Rights – not the usual concerns of an FPS. "BioShock Infinite has been our sole focus for the last four years, and we can't wait for fans to get their hands on it," he said.You can check out our in-depth interview with Levinehere.
A couple whose wedding plans collapsed when the events company organising it ceased trading had their big day saved aftera desperate Twitter appealled to them receiving £10,000 worth of freebies.Lauren Lane and Daniel Welch, from Somerset, lost their £4,500 deposit when the company folded six weeks before they were due to marry.The bride-to-be posted a tweet: "Help needed with aspects of our wedding after venue goes bust with 6 weeks 2 go &amp; with our £4.5k!"Twitter users with something to offer leapt in to help. Some contributed jewellery and clothes, one came up with a three-tiered chocolate cake. A magician, make-up artist, a photographer and a wedding planner all offered free or cut-price services or goods.Their campaignwas helped when celebrities including Davina McCall and Dannii Minogue spotted their appeal and re-tweeted it.They walked down the aisle on Saturday 25 February. The 27-year-old bride said: "It just goes to show the power of Twitter. As soon as I posted my message on the website everything just went crazy."My bridesmaids got involved and began tweeting messages to local wedding services companies, asking if they could do anything for us. Then Davina McCall and Dannii Minogue re-tweeted my message to their thousands of followers."We got so much help from a lot of kind people and it made our day really special. So much has come from such an awful time we can't thank all our helpers enough. It really did make it a dream wedding for us both."The couple were "totally devastated" when their wedding plans collapsed.Rather than give in, Lauren, took to Twitter on 5 January and the help flooded in."It was a lovely wedding and I cannot believe how many people and businesses came forward to help us – it was amazing. I had gone on Twitter on the off-chance that someone might be able to help us but it just went mad," she said.The happy couple estimate they received £10,000 worth of free services and gifts and had to contribute just £5,000 themselves.Following the wedding on Saturday, Lauren was quick to thank everyone who helped. Via Twitter, naturally: "Massive thank you to everyone that made our wedding day so special. Will thank everyone individually very shortly. We had an amazing day xx".
Microsoft has released Windows 8 Consumer Preview, a milestone on the way to the launch of its touch-friendly transformation of Windows. Referring to the user interface, Windows president Steven Sinofsky called it the first generational change since Windows 95, when the now-familiar Start menu and taskbar was introduced,as he announced the new release to press in Barcelona.Radical change is unavoidable if Windows is to compete effectively with Apple's iPad or Android tablets, since Windows 7 is difficult and irritating to use on a touch-only device.The challenge addressed by Microsoft in Windows 8 is how to remake Windows for tablets and eventually smartphones, while also maintaining compatibility and continuity with its vast legacy.Metro or desktop?Windows 8 has two modes. One is called Metro-style and is built on a new "Windows Runtime", a modern mobile operating system in which apps are installed from an online store, sandboxed from one another and from the system for security, and easy to operate with your fingers. The other is the old Windows desktop, still needed by Microsoft for applications like Office and by the rest of us for all our existing applications.Metro-style Windows follows a different philosophy than desktop Windows. Apps run full-screen (though with an option to have two tiled side by side) and are typically small and simple to use. Microsoft also designed the new runtime to make heavy use of asynchronous functions, which means that applications should remain responsive rather than freezing sulkily when performing long operations.I have been testing Windows 8 Consumer Preview on a Samsung Series 7 Slate, similar but not identical to one that Microsoft gave to developers at a conference last September when the Developer Preview was released. This is one of the few machines on the market now that has some chance of running Windows 8 as Microsoft intends, with a touch screen and 1366 x 768 resolution.The devicecame with Windows 7, but runs much better with Windows 8, although the lack of an accelerometer driver means that screen rotation does not work automatically. The preview supports dual boot, provided you have a separate partition available, so I can choose between Windows 7 or 8 on start up.There are some key changes since the Developer Preview. One is that many more apps are available. The Windows Store is live, and the bundled apps include Mail, Music, SkyDrive, and People, this last being a social media aggregator similar to one included with Windows Phone 7. All store apps are free during the preview period.The Windows 8 store, where everything is free during the previewJoin the cloudMicrosoft calls Windows 8 "Cloud connected", and one thing I noticed was that as soon as I signed in using the same Windows Live ID as I had used before on Windows Phone, the People app populated with my Twitter contacts, thanks to Microsoft's social media account aggregation.Metro-style Windows takes a little learning, though it does not take long to pick up. The key to it using touch is various swipe patterns. Swipe in from the left to switch apps, or from the right to summon the Windows 8 "charms" – standard features including Search, Settings, and the Start screen. Swipe from the top or bottom to show application menus, such as the tabs and address bar in Internet Explorer 10, included here in Platform Preview 5 version. Pinch and zoom works as you would expect.Internet Explorer 10, showing the Metro-style top and bottom menusMicrosoft has also worked on mouse control since the Developer Preview. When using the mouse, you move the pointer to the corner of the screen to perform common actions. Bottom left is the Start button, top left for switching apps, and top right for showing the charms. It works, though switching between mouse and touch takes some adjustment because of the different control points.So far, Windows 8 has lived up to Microsoft's "Fast and Fluid" claims, at least on the Metro side. Performance when flipping through apps or tapping on-screen controls is excellent. The on-screen keyboard is also good, unlike the fiddly equivalent in Windows 7. The included pinball game is the only disappointment, more sluggish than it should be, though it looks pretty with lots of fine detail.Windows 8 Consumer Preview is more fun to use than the Developer Preview, partly thanks to added polish, and partly because of the apps included – though it is a shame that few users will have the touch screens that show it off best. The Metro apps are a refreshing change from what we are used to with Windows, with bold controls and clear design, though the Metro style makes heavy use of squares and boxes, which feels a little industrial at times.Running apps full-screen and without menus showing is delightful, offering the immersive experience Microsoft promises.That said, there are some hassles with Windows 8 Consumer Preview. Finding applications is something of a puzzle, since many are hidden by default unless you tap the "All apps" button on the Start menu.Another point of confusion is that there are two versions of Internet Explorer included, one on the Metro side which does pure HTML5 with no add-ins allowed, and one on the desktop side which has Adobe Flash, ActiveX and so on. The thinking is good, but all too often the result is that sites simply do not work on the Metro side. The hope is that sites will adapt once Windows 8 becomes popular.The downside of "cloud connected" is that some apps do not work well offline, presenting blank screens or non-functional controls.The Metro mail app in Windows 8Interface puzzlesAnother issue is whether it is possible to create a user interface that works equally well with touch or with mouse and keyboard. So far, it does seem that the Metro side works better with touch, while the desktop side is still hard to use without physical input devices.One annoyance is that the on-screen keyboard on the desktop side often pops up over what you are working on, obscuring what you are typing. Microsoft's usability expert Jensen Harris told me that applications have to be set by the developer to shift out of the way of the keyboard when required, but most are not.Even so, I was able to bash out several paragraphs of this piece using the virtual keyboard on the bus to Barcelona airport, something I would not have attempted with Windows 7.The Metro side is great, but since it is a brand new platform most users will be stuck with desktop Windows a lot of the time. These users may feel that there is not much for them in Windows 8, or even that the Metro features get in the way, though there are improvements under the covers that make Windows 8 perform better, such as fast boot (the slate boots from cold in under 10 seconds) and smart networking that switches automatically to cheaper connections when available.There are other new features aimed at enterprises, which Microsoft will talk about in more detail at the CeBit event in March. Even so, this will be a hard sell to contented Windows 7 users.There is one factor though that works in favour of Windows 8, which is that you can take one tablet with you and have access both to apps with iPad-like ease of use with touch, and to full desktop applications like Microsoft Office when you need them. You can put up with a certain amount of awkwardness for the benefit of being able to leave the laptop behind.Barcelona as seen in Metro-style Bing mapsConclusionOverall Microsoft has done a fine job with Metro and the Windows runtime. The design is more elegant than Android, and with features like Charms and the side-by-side Snap, this is not just a me-too tablet operating system – though there is a risk of alienating traditional Windows user with such a radical redesign.
New privacy rules from Google, which come into effect on Thursday 1 March, will allow the company to pool data on individual users from any of its sites and use this to serve targetted advertising and search results.The changes will be investigated by EU authoritiesled by the French data protection watchdog CNIL, which claims the new policy breaches European law.According to reports, users cannot opt out of the new policy if they want to keep using Google's services, which include search, YouTube, Gmail and Google+.Are you concerned about these new rules? What questions do you have for Google about how the changes will affect you online?From12-1pm GMT, Peter Barron, Google's director of external relations for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, was online taking your questions, a selection of which are featured below.You asked, Google answered:charlie5asks:Google has pointed out that users can search anonymously or while logged out to avoid being tracked, as well as using separate accounts on different Google services to keep data diffused – although critics argue this makes for a clunky user experience. Users can also control their advertising preferences and make sure their web history is not tracked.Great to know. But how? This information is not eaily found on the google website or is it? Any advice or guidance on this would be appreciated.Peter Barron answers:The best first stop iswww.google.co.uk/privacy, where links to all our privacy tools are available, including links to our ads preferences manager and the instructions for clearing or stopping your search history if you search while logged in to a Google account.raskelfecomments:Even with the best intentions of Google to ensure privacy. The centralisation of data not only makes it vulnerable to attack. It also makes it likely to be attacked and leaked onto the internet.Peter Barron answers:We're keenly aware of the importance of keeping people's information safe, and helping them keep their information safe. We were the first webmail provider to switch to secure connections for all our users, and the first to offer two step verification (so that even if a hacker tricks you into divulging your password, they still won't be able to access your account). We work hard to make sure people know about these things: we recently launched a national advertising campaign on this topic called Good to Know. More on that www.google.co.uk/goodtoknowThomasGreen2asks:Obviously this new privacy policy hasn't been an overnight decision, so why did you not first inform state bodies (such as the EU) to see if they had any privacy concerns before implementing this new policy?Peter Barron responds:We've been moving in this direction for some time. We announced in January that these changes were coming, and since then we have carried out a huge notifiication programme, including a email to every Google account holder, and lots of home page promos and landing pages, as well as briefing European privacy regulators. In In the case of the French CNIL we have contacted them several times in recent weeks to answer their concerns, but they haven't come back to us. We're happy to continue to talk to them and othersDamienasks:How long does our data stay on your system?Peter Barron answers:the amount of time information stays on our servers varies depending on the product. If you're not logged in, we anonymise our logs after 9 months. If you're logged in--for example in Gmail--we'll keep that information until you choose to delete it or you close your account. To be clear - we don't give or sell the data to anyone elseRippilcasks:why are google trying to ruin the internet by throwing up ads all over the place? And are you worried that people will leave google services and use yahoo or bing and like me pay 69p for my mail and privacy?Peter Barron answers:We think that people prefer targeted ads to random ads, because they're more useful (and as a result people see fewer ads). The ads pay for almost all the services you use and consume online, but with some services, like Spotify, you can of course choose the pay rather than receive adsKashishasks:Has Google learnt nothing from the Buzz fiasco? Why then is there no option for users to opt out of its new privacy policy? Logging out of Google services to avoid being tracked is a terrible alternative. And I am not even talking about Android users. After all, the seamless experience while using Google services is one of the USPs of the OS.Peter Barron answers:you don't have to sign out of Google in order to control how we use your data. You can turn off your search history from the Google Dashboard, for example. And none of those control tools are going away today. As for opting out of the privacy policy as a whole: that's not how privacy policies work. You can't opt out of the Guardian's privacy policy, or that of the other services you use. But you have a lot of choice about how your data is usedmydogfudgeasks:So thats me moving to firefox as of right now. I hate how internet based services always brand things as these fantastic innovative new changes that help usability etc. when in fact all they want to is know more about you, in order to sell you stuff for their own profit. I have no huge problem with advertising but the surveillance and potential to share that with third parties is very worrying.Peter Barron answers:Firefox is a great browser, but I should make clear that our new privacy policy doesn't mean we'll be collecting any more information from users. Nor will be be changing anyone's privacy settings.Thanks for all your comments and questions.
A selection of 14 apps for you today:The Simpsons: Tapped OutAnything the Smurfs can do, can the Simpsons do better? EA has launched a new freemium game based on Bart and family, as you build Springfield, unlock characters and earn (or buy in-app) donuts to speed your progress. The game also includes exclusive animated sequences that haven't been screened in the main show.iPhone / iPadUEFA Euro 2012 by CarlsbergCarlsberg is capitalising on its sponsorship deal for the Euro 2012 football tournament with a free app for Android and iPhone. It'll offer news, match commentary, stats and Man of the Match voting. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iPhone version.Android / iPhoneDraw and Tell by Duck Duck MooseKid-apps developer Duck Duck Moose has launched its latest creative app, which gets children drawing, colouring, adding virtual stickers then recording their voice to create a story. Everything can then be shared with friends and family.iPhone / iPadWaking MarsTiger Style's new iOS game is hotly anticipated, given that the collective was previously behind the impressive Spider: The Secret of Bryce Manor. This time round, you're exploring lost caverns beneath Mars, growing plants and aliens to create your own ecosystem along the way.iPhone / iPadToy Soldiers: Boot CampMicrosoft's latest "Must Have Game" for Windows Phone is Toy Soldiers: Boot Camp, a spin-off from an existing Xbox Live Arcade game. It's a collection of mini-games starring teeny-tiny military units.Windows PhoneKingdoms of Camelot: Battle for the NorthHardcore social games firm Kabam has launched its first iOS game: Kingdoms of Camelot. It's separate from the existing web version (much like Zynga's iOS CityVille game), and sees you building a kingdom and battling/allying with other players.iPhone / iPadAR PuzzleBoard games firm Ravensburger is launching a new range of "augmented reality puzzles". That means physical jigsaw puzzles that, when completed, can have an iPhone pointed at them to reveal "interactive sound and animation".iPhone / iPadKodak GalleryKodak has launched its social photography app Kodak Gallery on Android, helping people to upload photos and then share them on Facebook and Twitter, while also ordering prints and photo-gifts.AndroidInStyle Best Beauty Buys 2012IPC Media's InStyle magazine has teamed up with John Lewis for its Best Beauty Buys awards, and there's now an app for that. It focuses on 100 products, based on the votes of 151 beauty industry figures, with the option to browse and buy them all.iPhone / iPadAvira Free Android SecurityAnother day, another security app for Android, although this one's focused more on lost smartphones. It can make your phone "scream" when misplaced via a Web Console interface, while also locking it remotely, pinpointing its location, and providing a button for anyone who finds it to call the owner.AndroidReadabilityWeb reading service Readability has launched an official iOS app, which promises to turn "any web page into a clean view for reading now or later on your computer, iPhone or iPad". It synchronises with the Readability web browser add-on.iPhone / iPadeMedia Guitar MethodGuitar education software eMedia Guitar Method is now available as a £13.99 iPad app, offering 50 videos to teach new techniques based on mroe than 60 songs. There's an animated fretboard, an automatic tuner using the iPad microphone, and a digital metronome built in too.iPadAaaaaAAaaaAAAaaAAAAaAAAAA!!!Well, it's a name and a half. This award-winning PC game is now on iOS, still with you leaping off the top of skyscrapers and performing stunts as you fall. Naturally, the accelerometer is used heavily for controls in this new version.iPhone / iPadWubbzy's Pirate TreasureThis iPad book-app is based on a Nick. Jr. cartoon called Wow! Wow! Wubbzy! and looks every bit as excitable as that title sounds. Developer GoodTalkApps promises more than 100 animations, four mini-games and three music videos to sing and dance along to.iPad
Kim Dotcom has compared the US department of justice charges against him and his Megaupload website to the claims about weapons of mass destruction in the lead-up to the war against Iraq. He accused US prosecutors of doing the bidding of the American film industry to prop up its "outdated monopolistic business model".In his first substantial interview since his  arrest at his mansion north of Auckland, New Zealand, on 20 January, Dotcom denied that he was a "piracy king".  He said the US attempt to extradite him to face charges of copyright and racketeering rested on "fabrications and lies"."It's kind of like weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, you know?If you want to go after someone and you have a political goal you will say whatever it takes," said the 38-year-old German online entrepreneur, who was granted bail last week after a month in custody.He said "a hundred other companies" offer similar cloud-based filesharing services, but he had been singled out as the "over-pirate of the planet". The 72-page indictment against him was a "maliciously designed ... press release", he told the TV3 television station.The seizure of his assets and shutdown of Megaupload, which would have been worth about $1bn (£627m) amounted to "a death sentence without trial", said Dotcom, vowing to "fight this all the way".Under US law, Megaupload could not be held responsible for the actions of third parties, said Dotcom. He said that, despite its angry rhetoric, the Movie Picture Association of America had never pursued a legal action against his company.Megaupload had always removed content that breached copyright, he said . Users were obliged to agree to terms of service that expressly prohibited uploading copyright material, while 180 partners, "including every major movie studio, including Microsoft", had been given special access to the Megaupload system to allow the direct removal of links to illegitimate material. "Where does piracy come from?" he asked. "Piracy comes from, you know, people, let's say, in Europe who do not have access to movies at the same time that they are released in the US." ."If the business model would be one where everyone has access to this content at the same time, you know, you wouldn't have a piracy problem. So it's really, in my opinion, the government of the United States protecting an outdated monopolistic business model that doesn't work in the age of the internet and that's what it all boils down to. "I'm no piracy king, I offered online storage and bandwidth to users and that's it."Dotcom was released on bail on 22 February: the court has ordered him to wear an electronic tag and he is banned from using the internet. Speaking , he said the episode had been "a little bit like a nightmare".He accepted that he may have attracted attention owing to the "flamboyance" of his lifestyle."I'm a fun-loving guy. I enjoy my life. I have a big kid inside me," he said. However, his priorities had changed, he said."That was childish stuff, it was fun at the time and I don't regret it, but that is not me today, I am a different guy. I just want to have a safe future for my kids and, you know, provide my family with a great home and that's why we moved to New Zealand and we're really surprised what is going on here."Dotcom's extradition hearing is scheduled to begin in Auckland in August.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Smartphone Revolution is over (for now) &gt;&gt; Fast CompanyWritten ahead of MWC, but still true:We've got the iPhone to thank. It set the pattern for the current smartphone paradigm because its design departed so radically from pretty much everything that had gone before--so much so that some peoplescoffed at the very ideathat it could be successful. It's sold so very well and has transformed the entire market to the extent that it's inspired all of these iPhone-esque designs (some of which Appleaccuses of all but cloningits ideas).It's also the reason that MWC for this year and probably next will be very samey-samey, with all the innovation restricted to honing features like processor speed, screen technology for vividness, brightness, or pixel density, incorporating better camera technology, variations in the touch interface and the OS and the UI that controls how users interact with it. Phone CPUs willget more cores(and marketing folks may try to spin this to an unknowing public as a benefit, much as during the megapixel wars when digital cameras were becoming popular). NFC and other sensors and interactive tweaks will be added. That's all innovative for sure, but it's hardly revolutionary - it won't take mobile phone tech in an amazing new direction.Google+ trending down? Data suggests users only visit the site three times a month &gt;&gt; The VergeTo go with the ComScore data from the other day:according to Compete, Google+ visitors went to the site less than three times a month and spent about three and a half minutes per visit (on average from July 2011 through January 2012). Facebook visitors, on the other hand, ended up visiting Facebook about 21 times each month, spending almost 20 minutes each time they visited. This works out to a little over 10 minutes spent on Google+ compared to about 7 hours spent on Facebook.The question is whether people have the spare time to make that additive, whether they'll abandon Facebook, or what.Who decides what gets sold in the bookstore? - The Domino ProjectSeth Godin:There's been a long history of ubiquity at the bookstore. With a few extreme exceptions, just about every book is available at every bookstore if you're willing to order it. Universal availability feels like part of the contract we make with bookstores-we expect them to sell everything. In the digital world, this goes triple, because there's no issue of shelf space to deal with. I just found out that Apple is rejecting my new manifesto Stop Stealing Dreams and won't carry it in their store because inside the manifesto are links to buy the books I mention in the bibliography. Quoting here from their note to me, rejecting the book: "Multiple links to Amazon store. IE page 35, David Weinberger link."Of course ebooks are software, not really books. This just heightens that. The interesting question: would Amazon allow an ebook whose bibliography linked to other ebook stores? Does it? The gulf between physical and ebooks grows.Sources: New Apple TV launching in March, near-immediate availability hinted for new iPads &gt;&gt; 9to5MacReliable sources familiar with Apple's upcoming product release have said that the company is in fact launching a new Apple TV alongside the next-generation iPad. Weinitially reportedthat Apple would be releasing two major new products in early March, and then believed the product would be a new Apple TV due tomounting code-based evidencefor such a product withsimultaneous supply constraints. Now, sources have outright said Apple is launching this J33 (the new Apple TV's codename) alongside the new iPad.It would be a bit boring if they just launched a new iPad. Then again, everyone thought there would be "one more thing" at the iPhone 4S launch.Scoop: Less than 1M Google TV devices in use &gt;&gt; GigaomSome neat digging around in Android Market stats yields that nifty data.Still, the numbers clearly show that Google has some work to do. Even if you take into account that active devices don't equal sold devices, it's obvious that others have been doing far better. Apple has sold 4.2m Apple TV units, and Roku -- despite missing its own sales goals -- was able to sell 2.5m boxes by the end of last year.(Also: should we quibble about whether "less" is correct over "fewer"?)When will Android reach one billion users? &gt;&gt; asymcoThe always-insightful Horace Dediu forecasts that Android will hit a billion within five years:The crucial question is whether the billion Android phones will have an effect on the opportunity for new entrants like Windows Phone and future BlackBerry variants as well as Bada and other Linux-based platforms. The answer is that there will be well over 6bn mobile "connections" by the end of 2013. ITU reports that "By the end of 2010, there will be an estimated 5.3bn mobile cellular subscriptions worldwide, including 940m subscriptions to 3G services. It follows then that if this forecast is correct then by the end of 2013, Android will have about 17% penetration of the connections market.Promoted Products: now more mobile &gt;&gt; Twitter blogWith our most recent app updates, Promoted Accounts are now in Twitter for iPhone and Twitter for Android. And in the coming weeks, we'll begin introducing Promoted Tweets in the timeline on these mobile apps. Initially, a small number of users may see Promoted Tweets near the top of their timelines from brands they already follow. This will help ensure that people see important Tweets from the brands they care about. For both products, the experience will be the same as on Twitter.com: Promoted Tweets will appear in your timeline like any other Tweet, and like regular Tweets, they will appear in your timeline just once; as you scroll, the Promoted Tweet will flow with the rest of the Tweets in your timeline. As with Promoted Tweets in search, we will only display Promoted Tweets in the timeline when they are relevant. If you see a Promoted Tweet that isn't relevant to you, you can easily dismiss it from your timeline with a single swipe. Promoted Accounts appear in your list of Who to Follow recommendations.Not in third-party apps? Then again, Twitter must know what it does and doesn't control.Sony goes mental and releases its Nintendo DS in the USA | Revert to Saved: A blog about design, gaming and technologyRe Sony's dual-screen Tablet P:"the clam-shell tablet runs a special version of the Android Honeycomb operating system that allows for dual-scren-tailored applications [sic]To which Craig Grannell responds:Which I'm sure devs are just going to flock to, because if there's one thing devs love, it's fragmentation and designing apps specifically for an unproven device that's probably going to vanish from the face of the planet within a few months.Actually, has anyone seen anyone using this thing? In real life?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's the first day of March – why not celebrate by spending the whole day chatting about games?
Alma Whitten is director of privacy for products and engineering, Google Inc. This unpaid post was submitted by Google, and does not reflect any editorial stance by the GuardianI've been working on privacy and security projects at Google since I joined the company in 2003. Over time, as our number of services and users has grown, so too has our awareness of the importance of earning and keeping people's trust. That awareness has led us to build innovative tools that keep people in control of their information. It has also led us to work hard to make it easy for people to understand our privacy commitments to them.In January we announced that we were updating our privacy policies, and those changes take effect from Thursday 1 March. We know that changes like this are important, which is why we've engaged in the largest communication we've ever made to our users: notifying people when they log in or when they use services like search, and emailing people with Google accounts. If you use Gmail, YouTube or any other Google services, you've no doubt heard about this change.The result has been a lot of scrutiny on those changes. We welcome this, because privacy is important. But it's also led to some misunderstandings about what's happening. The most important thing to remember is that we're doing this to make our privacy commitments more understandable, and to make Google work better for you.First, simplicity. Google started in 1998 as a search engine. Since then we've added a whole range of services: Gmail, Google Maps, Chrome, Google Docs, Android and Google+ to name a few. Historically when we launched a new service, we added a new privacy policy. Same when we acquired a service – we left the existing policy in place.Eventually, to read them all became an all-day endeavour. So in 2010 we took afirst steptoward simplifying them by folding a dozen service-specific notices into our main privacy policy. But that still left more than 70. On January 24 we announced that we've rewritten – in plain English – our main Google privacy policy and folded in more than 60 service-specific ones. As of Thursday 1 March, you'll have one comprehensive document outlining our privacy commitments across the vast majority of Google services.Second, we want to create a better user experience. For the most part, our privacy policies already allowed us to combine information gathered in connection with one service with information from other services when users are signed into their Google Accounts. Microsoft, Yahoo and other online companies do the same. It lets us treat you as a single user across Google when you're signed in.Today, for example, you can immediately add an appointment to your Google Calendar when a message in Gmail looks like it's about a meeting. You can use the Google+ sharing feature – "circles" – to send friends directions without leaving Google Maps. Or you can use your Gmail address book to auto-complete an email address when you're inviting someone to collaborate on a Google Docs spreadsheet. It's all seamless, and it saves you time.However, our old privacy policies restricted our ability to combine information within an account for two services: web history (search history for signed-in users) and YouTube, which we acquired in 2007. So, if you're signed in and searching Google for cooking recipes, our current privacy policies wouldn't let us recommend cooking videos when you visited YouTube based on your searches – even though you were signed into the same Google Account for both.So our updated privacy policy makes it clear in one comprehensive document that, if you're signed in, we may combine information you've provided from one service with information from our other services. We think this will lead to more relevant and useful information of all kinds – search results, ads and more that suit your interests.Our approach to privacy isn't changing. We're not collecting any new information as a result of this change. We're not altering any of your privacy settings. And we still won't sell your personal information to advertisers. We just want to use the information you already trust us with to make your experience better.If you don't think information sharing will improve your experience, you don't need to sign in to use services like search, maps and YouTube. If you are signed in, you can use our many privacy tools to do things like edit or turn off your search history and YouTube history, control the way Google tailors ads to your interests and browse the web "incognito" using Chrome. You can even separate your information into different accounts. In other words, you can use the complete range of Google tools that give you transparency and control over your data.We remain just as committed to privacy today as we have always been, and we'll continue to look for ways to make it simpler for you to understand and control how we use the information you entrust to us. Just last week we joined the White House and others from industry to support "Do Not Track" in a consistent and meaningful way that offers user choice and clearly explained browser controls.Providing transparency, control and security remains crucial to keeping your trust; we build Google for you, and we think these changes will make our services even better.
Google's new privacy rules, which have come into force as of Thursday 1 March, are to be investigated by EU data authorities, with France arguing the sweeping changes breach European law.France's data protection watchdog, the CNIL, told Google in a letter dated 27 February that it would lead a Europe-wide investigation of the policy, which involves Google pooling the data on individual users gathered via any of its sites – search, YouTube, Gmail, Google+ and others – allowing it to tailor search results, target users with advertising and make other uses of the information.Google said in January it was simplifying its privacy rules, consolidating 60 policies into a single one, and has promoted it as a positive change.Users cannot opt out of the new policy if they want to continue using Google's services."The CNIL and EU data authorities are deeply concerned about the combination of personal data across services: they have strong doubts about the lawfulness and fairness of such processing and its compliance with European data protection legislation," the French regulator wrote to Google.Google has put the changes into effect from Thursday 1 March and has rebuffed two requests from European regulators for a delay.The tussle over data privacy comes at a delicate time for Google, whose business model has become to give away free search, email and other services while making money by selling user-targeted advertising.It is already being investigated by the EU's competition authority and the US Federal Trade Commission over how it ranks search results and whether it favours its own products over those of rivals.In a blogpost responding to CNIL's letter, Google said it was happy to answer questions from Europe's data protection authorities. "As we've said several times over the past week, while our privacy policies will change on 1st March, our commitment to our privacy principles is as strong as ever," wrote Peter Fleischer, Google's global privacy counsel.In his letter to CNIL, Fleischer added: "We are confident that our new simple, clear and transparent privacy policy respects all European data protection laws and principles."Google's new privacy policy follows closely on a European commission move to overhaul its 17-year-old data protection rules in favour of more stringent requirements. Under the proposed new EU rules, companies like Google, Facebook and Yahoo would have to ask users for permission to store and sell their data to other businesses, such as advertisers, which is the source of almost all their income.Internet users could also ask for their data to be deleted from websites for good, the so-called "right to be forgotten".Policymakers in other countries have also expressed concerns over Google's new privacy policy. Eight US lawmakers sent a letter to Google in late January saying a planned consolidation of user information endangered consumers' privacy.Japan's trade and industrial ministry warned on Wednesday that Google must follow Japan's privacy law in implementing its new approach, and that Google needed to provide explanations to address users' concerns. "It is important for the firm to be flexible by providing necessary additional explanations or measures to address actual user concerns or requests also after March 1..." the ministry said in a statement.Google has pointed out that users can search anonymously or while logged out to avoid being tracked, as well as using separate accounts on different Google services to keep data diffused – although critics argue this makes for a clunky user experience. Users can also control their advertising preferences and make sure their web history is not tracked."Google's new privacy policy states that, as was the case before: when showing you tailored ads, we will not associate a cookie or anonymous identifier with sensitive categories, such as those based on race, religion, sexual orientation or health," a spokesman said.• The headline on this article was amended on 1 March 2012 to make clear that the inquiry was not launched by the EU, but by the French data protection agency, CNIL. After publication a Google representative pointed out that the opening statement that France argued the changes breached European law was not consistent with a quote from CNIL's letter to Google that it had "strong doubts". The writer had in mind another sentence from CNIL's letter which said that its preliminary analysis showed that "Google's new policy does not meet the requirements of the European Directive on Data Protection".
Block 18.30am:And we're back!Day 2 of TED2012 is just about to kick off and the first speaker, the completely kick-assRegina Duganhas just taken to the stage and exhorted us all to be nice to nerds!So I will: hello nerds! Welcome back.Block 2Block 38.41am:Scientists and engineers change the world, says Dugan. (Who's an engineer.)Never heard of Dugan, well she's one impressive lady scientist...Regina Dugan directs the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the DoD innovation engine responsible for creating and preventing strategic surprise.And what's DARPA?It prevents strategic surprise from negatively impacting U.S. national security and create strategic surprise for U.S. adversaries by maintaining the technological superiority of the U.S. military.We have to refuse to fear failure, she says. That's the key to technological innovation.Block 48.45am:Now she's talking about hypersonic flight. And a Mach 20 aircraft that could fly from New York to Long Beach in, did she just say, two minutes?? Hmm. May need to check that.And airplanes that would act like a hummingbird, that can fly in all directions. Ooh, and now she's just shown us a prototype.Many of them crashed, she's just pointed out. Many. But there's one flying through the auditorium right now!Failure is part of creating amazing new things, she says.Block 58.48am:Now we're on to"nano-gecko adhesive"And cars that two people can lift, but so strong, it has the power of an SUV.And what if we could use lightning as GPS?And thoughts to control prosthetic arms? Dugan shows a video which she says "is the first time a human has controlled a robot with thought alone".And now, she's on to "green goo that might just save your life". A vaccine made out of tobacco plants.Phew! She's galloping on at quite a pace.Block 68.54am:Gosh, and now she's moved into motivational mode.We can change the world if we defy the possible Like the scientists and engineers at DARPA. They remind us that we all have nerd power.As children, she says, you weren't afraid of failure. When you could sing. When you were a great dancer. And you could jump higher. You believed in impossible things and you were fearless.And here's her take-home pitch:Scientists and engineers can change the world. But so can you. What would you attempt to do if you knew you could not fail?Block 78.59am:Hmm. The thing is that Regina Dugan isactuallya rocket scientist. I just think she might be over-estimating the rest of us....(sigh).This is the New York Times on her:There are four stages to an encounter with Regina Dugan - being a little scared, really scared, frustrated and then enlightened.Block 89.01am:Chris Andersonhas just taken to the stage. "What happens if a nerd sends one of those hummingbird planes through a window in the White House?""Be nice to nerds, Chris," says Dugan. And then, "Technology is moving really fast. There's no getting away from it."I have to say Regina Dugan is really quite phenomenal. She's like a character in a Bond film: the kick-ass lady engineer in charge of protecting the free world.There's a profile on herhere.Block 99.08am:Time will wait for no man, though. Or at least TED won't.Jack Choihas just taken to the stage to demo his anatomical imaging software.We're looking inside a heart at the moment. Yep.On what looks like rather a large iPad.Block 109.10am:I'm starting to think this might be one of those mind-blowing-weird-world-changing-technology sessions....there's a humanoid robot later coming up later. May need to go and get anothercrowd-sourced capuccino.My one this morning was "curated in Bolivia by Pedro Rodriguez". Only at TED.Block 119.16am:Also, I have to mention that at the opening night party last night, I stumbled on two roboticists have a conversation about teledildonics.And, yes, I've checked. That is an actualword.Yes, really:Teledildonics (also known as "cyberdildonics") are electronic sex toys that can be controlled by a computer to reach orgasm. Promoters of these devices have claimed since the 1980s they are the "next big thing" in cybersex technology."Teledildonics" can also refer to the integration of telepresence with sex that these toys make possible — the term was coined in 1975 by Ted Nelson in his Computer Lib/Dream Machines.Block 129.35am:Donald Sadowaynow who's doing amazing things with batteries. Think that doesn't sound very sexy, think again. This is "extreme electrochemistry".Block 139.38am:It's a brilliant talk, on a fairly difficult topic. He's working on a grid-size battery system that stores energy using a three-layer liquid-metal core. And has pretty incredible potential. As has been noticed by Bill Gates who's funding the next stage of development.And according to Chris Anderson, in typically understated TED style,  "it may just save the planet".Block 149.42am:No! The robot has been impounded by customs!Henrik Scharfe and his"geminoid-dk"a life-like android replica of him is up next but he's been impounded by customs. Would love to be a fly on the wall for that....Block 159.45am:Ah...there's some sort of crowd-sourcing dancey performance art on now. Men in bodystockings throwing beach balls.Block 169.47am:Okay this is going to be very good, I think. It'sVijay Kumar.Who's going to talk about "autonomous agile aerial robots".Mini versions of drones. Unmanned air vehicles. I've seen this on YouTube. It's pretty scary.Block 17Block 18Block 199.52am:What can you use autonomous robots for? Well according to Kumar. You can send them into buildings as first responders. In search and rescue. On construction sites.Hmm. And war? I think we might be rather glossing over that one. If you think about how drones are already used, there's also some rather sinister possible uses, surely? That's possibly not very TED though.....Block 209.55am:He's showing the swarm video now. There's a huge cheer going up in the auditorium. It's like watching a battalion of alien invaders. Spooky.Block 2110.01am:We've now got a robot flying into a building, creating its own map of its surroundings, and then working out where to go. "It's figuring out where the best point b) is to go at every time."They're very almost "thinking".And now, we're going to watch robots playing musical instruments. Yep.Block 2210.04am:The drones have taken over an electric organ and a proto-xylophone. And they're playing the James Bond theme tune!Oh, it's a standing ovation.Chris is back on stage. "You really felt like you were watching the world change a little bit in front of your very eyes there," he says. "That was astounding."Block 2311.02am:Okay, we're back! So, fancy giving your own TED talk? On the main stage at Long Beach? And online forever.Well, now you can. Yep, TED is coming over all X Factor. It's holding live auditions in 14 cities in six continents. Enterhere.Evan GrantofTEDxLondonis going to be organising the London leg on April 22. Entries close March 4 so get cracking.Block 2411.04am:Ooh! And we've got another Brit on the stage. It'sKaren Basswho's the brilliant BBC film-maker behind David Attenborough's programmes.She's about to show us grizzly bears.Block 2511.06am:And yes, I know they're trained killers. But they're tumbling down showy slopes and is it terribly anthropocentric to say that they look cute?Probably. Bass says that they had to shoot from the air. And it took two years in remotest Alaska to get that shot.Block 2611.09am:We're onto film she took of a new species of bat. With a nine inch tongue. Or, to put it in perspective, one and a half times body length, the equivalent of a human having a nine-foot tongue."We filmed it by cutting a hole in the base of a flower and used a camera that showed action down by 40 times."Block 2711.15am:More wonders of the natural world now, wildlife photographerSharon Bealson the astounding architecture of birds' nests.She's showing images from her bookFifty Nests and the Birds That Built Themwhich she says documents how very  hard survival is for them.Block 2811.24am:Wade Davisnow, ethnobotanist and National Geographic explorer, on how the Canadian wilderness is under threat.Block 2911.30am:Davis's particular specialism is the protection of indigenous people. He's talking about the danger to the "sacred headwaters" of the Toltan people in British Colombia by oil exploration being conducted by Shell.But here he is on zombies:In 1983, Davis first advanced his hypothesis that tetrodotoxin (TTX) poisoning could explain the existence of Haitian zombies.[3] This idea has been controversial and his popular 1985 follow up book (The Serpent and the Rainbow) elaborating upon this claim has been criticized for a number of scientific inaccuracies.[4] One of these is the suggestion that Haitian witchdoctors can keep "zombies" in a state of pharmacologically induced trance for many years.[5] As part of his Haitian investigations, Davis commissioned a grave robbery of a recently buried child.[6][7] (Dead human tissue is supposed to be a part of the "zombie powder" used by witchdoctors to produce zombies.) This has been criticized in the professional literature as a breach of ethics.[8][9]Block 3011.32am:Chris Anderson has just pointed out that as well as threatening the survial of tribal people, Shell is also a TED partner. Ooh.Awkward.Ever the optimist though, he says he hopes this will lead to a "meaningful conversation".Block 3111.34am:Lara Steinis up now. She's the head of the TEDx movement.Which is as good a moment as any to mentionTEDxObserver. The Observer's very own mini TED. It's in two weeks time, and we've sold out but we're hopefully going to be livestreaming it. Details to come.We've got 1,200 people coming to Sadler's Wells in central London and around 500 more in seven cities around the country, dancers flying in from Colombia, musicans from South Africa, speakers from the US. Nervous? [Cough]No. We're super-confident. Super confident. Yes,really.Goldie said last year that it was the best event he'd ever been involved with, and you can't argue with Goldie..Block 3211.44am:Right, the next speaker isJames Hansen, the veteran climate change campaigner.It was his expert testimony to Congress that has helped to influence US environmental policy (although some might point out, sadly, not enough....)It was one of the reasons why he "decided to go back to science". But then...."I had grandchildren." And decided he had to speak up. Though Nasa, his employer at the time, tried to stop him.I was trying to communicte the urgency of changing energy policy while still researching the physics of climate change. Adding C02 to the air, is like throwing another blanket on the bed. More energy is going in than is coming out."Block 3311.54am:He's got a graph of Greenland's ice sheet up on the screen. It's sort of falling-off-a-cliff shape.Now he's laying into the climate change deniers. Al Gore's film, An Inconvenient Truth, incidentally, grew out of a talk he gave at TED.Anyway, here's Hansen on what lies ahead:"We've started a process that is out of humanity's control. The economic consequences are almost unthinkable. And....devastatingly, the total extinction of hundreds of species."Block 3411.58pm:The tragedy about climate change is that we can solve it.He's proposing an escalating fee on carbon collected from fossil fuel companies. Which would stimulate the economy and lead to a clean energy future."But instead our governments are foricng the public to subsidise fossil fuels by every means possible. This path if continued guarantees that we will pass tipping points leading to events that are out of control."It's immoral, he says. And has to be stopped.Block 3512.02pm:He's reaching towards his conclusion now. And it as a certain sci-fi quality.Climate change is "like a giant asteroid that's on course to hit earth".And the longer we wait the more difficult and expensive it becomes.Block 3612.04pm:Ooh, a musical interlude. It's the James Taylor Quartet doing the theme tune to Starsky and Hutch. Hmm. They're looking a bit older than last time I saw them (circa 1989). But then, I expect I am too.Block 3712.09pm:Right, enough of that. We're getting serious again. It's the 328th richest man in America up on stage: the wonderfully namedT Boone Pickens.Who's not a bluegrass guitarist, but an oil man turned energy campaigner and the self-described"luckiest guy in the world".Block 3812.14pm:He's an extraordinary character. One of the most powerful and wealthiest entrepreneurs in the Unite States who made his fortune drilling oil, then in the 80s became a corporate raider. Andthen, had some sort of spectacular Road to Damascus epiphany and now believes that our reliance on fossil fuels is nothing short of a disaster.Block 3912.16pm:Luckily, T Boone Pickens has a plan (not "the Pickens Plan" though; he had to abandon that). No, the answer to our energy prayers is, he believes, natural gas.But then, he's famous for saying, "A fool with a plan is better than a genius with no plan, and we look like fools without a plan."Natural gas is the bridge fuel, he says. But...it might just be the bridge to natural gas. There's plenty of it. And, most particularly, there's a whole load of it in America. "And I'm for anything American."Strikes me T Boone Pickens could be the kind of energy campaigner that right wing politicans might just listen to. None of this mumbo jumbo solar/wind nonsense. He's advocating a solid American fossil fuel.(He also owns a Gulfstream jet. This is an energy activist, you can see that even the Tea Party could get behind.)Block 4012.26pm:We're on to fracking now. The somewhat controversial process that's currentlycausing such uproar in Sussex.And it's how you get this "bridge fuel".T Boone Pickens though is brooking no such nonsense."I have fracked over 3,000 wells and I don't see a problem with it. Why is the media so obsessed with eastern Pennsylvania?" (Where, for the record, there'sbeen a.)Block 4112.33pm:Uh oh. There's "climate change musical theatre" up on stage now.You know what. It may be kindest just to draw a discreet veil.Block 4212.40pm:Right. They're singing about pigeons dying now. I'll spare you the details...So, that's it for Session 5. We're going to be back after lunch with "The Crowd". That's bound to be good. Crowd-sourcing is to TED what, um, riots are to the G7 Summit. Snowmobiles to Davos? White pussy cats to Bond villains? You get the picture. Back at 2.15pm Pacific Time. Over and out.Block 432.19pm:And we're back!So, it's all about "The Crowd". That's you and me and everyone we know. And maybe a few more too. Anyway, coming up is the first crowd-sourced TED talk and the pretty extraordinaryReggie Watts. Who's not got much to do with crowds (I don't think. He's a comedian and beatbox artist.) but he is very entertaining.This little number is called "Fuck Shit Stack". And it'squiterude.Block 442.34pm:The celebrity tweeters are starting to make their presence felt...Sadoway at#TED: To improve current#energysituation, "we’re going to invent our way out, working together."b-gat.es/x08EW0&mdash; Bill Gates (@BillGates)February 29, 2012Bill Gates is a major financial supporter of the earlier TED speaker,Donald Sadoway,and his work on batteries.Block 452.43pm:Ah! Here's Vijay Kumar's nano-copters playing the James Bond theme tune!Block 462.45pm:So here'sReid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn, and investor in Facebook, Flickr, Paypal..you name it, Hoffman's been right there.Here he is talking about "The Network Age". There's an old idea, he says, that your career is an escalator. There's just one problem with it. It's no longer true.Today, youth unemployment is at the highest level since World War II. This fast-paced world has disbanded the career escalator. It's now all about the network.Block 472.51pm:LinkedIn was his first response to this. But it's not just about software any more, he says.Now, you need to be the entrepreneur of your own life.Your career now is about your network. It harks back to the origins of the word "company".Block 482.57pm:"Conceptualising and understanding networks are now what gives people the edge," says Hoffman.Networks have been around as long as people. But technology infrastructure leverages the age old instinct of being social. It's always been big, but now you can see it.My own network is just 2600 people but the number of friends of friends of friends I have is 15 million. People forget how compounded maths works.Block 492.57pm:You can't hear a pin drop here. The crowd is agog. They're lapping it up.If you want to give a talk on "the brand of you" you're not going to find any more receptive crowd than TED.Block 503.00pm:When you truly see networks, he says, it changes the way you think.For example with venture capital (at which it has to be said, Hoffman has been about as successful as anyone ever has been) "I don't put out an advert, it's all about being the middle of the network".So, you can read all about it in Hoffman's new book,The Start-Up of You.But allow me to summarise: it's basically, "Tweet or Die".Block 513.14pm:The next speaker won the first round of TED auditions. TED organised an X Factor-style contest. Or as they put it here, "crowd-sourced curation". Strange how Simon Cowell never calls it that.Block 523.16pm:And what would the winner of TED's first "crowd-sourced curation" speak about?Why, yes. He's giving a crowd-sourced talk, TED's first.He's an Israeli calledLior Zorefwho used Facebook, Twitter and YouTube to work on his talk and had "hundreds of people improve it collectively".Block 533.20pm:Here's version #101. The first iteration of it at his TED audition.Block 543.22pm:Zoref is enumerating the ways in which crowd-sourcing works. Quite a good examplehere.Deborah Kogan took her son to the doctor with a temperature and he sent them home again saying it may be strep throat and to keep an eye on him.She did, but she also posted a photo of him on Facebook. Within an hour three people had diagnosed him with the potentially fatal Kawasaki disease.Oh God, it's like Hoffman says: network or DIE, people.Yep, this is it. The Gospel according to TED. Non-tweeters will gradually be selected out of the gene pool and whither away.Block 553.33pm:Jennifer Pahlka is on next. She's fromCode For America,or as she puts it, "Peace Corps for geeks".They persuade techies to take a year off and to use their skills to make America's cities a better place. Writing "civic apps" to fix the flaws in government.Block 563.36pm:The internet doesn't need to act like government, the government needs to act more like the internet: to be a platform for one citizen to help another citizen. To be open, permissionless, generative.Contempt for bureaucracy is a way of disempowering ourselves, she says. We need this instution to work for us. And we have to make bureaucracy sexy.That's whatOccupytheSEChas done, she says.That's not being politically active. That's being bureaucratically active.Block 573.41pm:The generation who grew up on the internet know that it's not that difficult to work together and be heard. You just have to build the system right, says Pahlka.Last year they had 550 young people apply for 25 places.Block 583.45pm:Did I mention the ox??Lior Zoref brings an ox onto#TEDstage, asks all to submit online guess of weight. Average: 1793 lbs. Ox's weight: 1795 lbs.#crowdwisdom&mdash; Lincoln Institute (@landpolicy)February 29, 2012Block 593.48pm:This is interesting (in a nerdy sort of way). TED is opening up its API to allow developers to make their own apps etc.It's what Facebook has just done and is the big new web thing. Any techies out there? They're also recruiting 50 developers to oversee it. Go to www.labs.ted.com.Block 603.54pm:Frank Warren up now of the really rather wonderfulpostsecret.com.Since he started the project in 2004, he's received more than 500,000 postcards inscribed with people's secrets.Ah! He's just told the story of one his secret-tellers who's now launched his own project,ifoundyourcamera.net. It's where "orphan photos" go to be found. Or a way, as he says, "of leveraging the kindness of strangers".Block 613.58pm:June Cohen introduced Warren by quoting a passage from Sherry Turkle's new bookAlone Together(she's up tomorrow).In it she says that "technology is most seductive when it targets our vulnerabilities".Warren says that one of his secrets is in all of his books. And in fact, it was the "struggling to come to terms with the secrets I was holding" that led to the project in the first place.And it's been the kindness of strangers, he says, that has enabled him to overcome the troubles "that were haunting me".Block 624.07pm:So it'sReggie Wattsup now. Beatboxer, musician, comedian, man-with-very-big-hair. BIG hair.Here he is on Conan:Block 634.15pm:Okay, break time. Phew! Enough with the crowds.....So, at 5pm (Pacific Time) we've got the TED prize session. The French artist, JR, is going to be back with news of his project Inside Out, so here's a trailer to whet your street art appetite.Block 644.23pm:And here's the Guardian's very own Jon Ronson. He's going to be speaking tomorrow. I think he may be alittlenervous.At#TEDI am veering between can't wait to go on and might kill myself so I don't need to go on.&mdash; jonronson (@jonronson)February 29, 2012Block 654.44pm:Okay, we've finally got thefirstof the TED talk videos up!So, this is yesterday's talk byPaul Gilding, the Australian activist where he talks about how "the earth is full", apocalypse is just around the corner, we've exhausted our natural resources, and we're all dooooomed. (Though, actually, at the end, he suddenly comes over all cheerful and claims that actually he's sure we'll figure out a solutionsomehow.)Block 664.54pm:And then, here's Peter Diamandis, the singular founder of the Singularity University and the X Prize with a slightly contrary view.I'll summarise: it's flipping fantastic! There's never been a better time to be alive. And it's only going to get better.Anyway, they're both brand new TED talks. Enjoy.Block 675.06pm:We're back!And here's @TEDChris.Join us now to watch the full Prize session on#TEDLive!bit.ly/xjQYBH&mdash; Chris Anderson (@TEDchris)March 1, 2012Block 685.13pm:Like the man says, you can watch this onelive.It's the TED prize session and it's the only one which will be livestreamed.Block 695.15pm:Chris Anderson has just welcomed Amy Novogratz, the director of the TED prize (and Chris's sister-in-law), who "this time a year ago had a tumour the size of a golf ball removed from her head".Block 705.19pm:This is great. Cynthia Parr introduces anencyclopaedia of life on earth. It's a wikipedia of all biological life and so far 1.9 million species have been described.But forget that. Life on earth? That's easy peasy. Someone else has now taken to the stage to talk about the search for life not on earth.It'sArfon Smith, a scientist and developer fromzooniverse, the public science website, which is launchingSetilive: a crowdsourcing quest to see if there's alien life out there."It's the most targeted search for extra-terrestrial life ever."And it's part of TED's mission to fulfil the TED "wish" ofJill Tarter, the director of the Seti Institute's Center for Seti Research, who won the TED prize back in 2009.Her wish?"I wish that you would empower Earthlings everywhere to become active participants in the ultimate search for cosmic company."Block 715.37pm:JRis back to report on his wish - he won last year's prize and has been posting photos of people's faces all across the world.But the winner of the TED prize this year isn't a person, it's an idea.The City 2.0.How does a city make a wish, asks Amy Novogratz? Hmm. Good point. We'll find out later apparently. But first there'sEd Glaeser, a professor of economics at Harvard, and one natty dresser (he's wearing a rather spiffy bow-tied), on why cities are great.Half of all humanity now lives in cities, he says. And this is a good thing.Gandhi said that the village was the future. But, says Glaeser, "Gandhi was wrong".Block 725.45pm:My God! He's galloping along. This could be the fastest TED talk in the West. There's no way the Guardian's software is going to keep up....Ed! Have some mercy!I'll have to summarise: cities are great. People still want to be in cities. Even though we have technology which means we don't have to be there for jobs. Cities foster entrepreneurial talent. I'll say it again: cities are great!Cities are full of poor people not because they make people poor, but because they draw poor people to them.Quoting Ed is like trying to catch snowflakes. For every flake you catch, another 500 melt on the ground....me"If you live in a city you're less likely to be killed in a motor vehicle accident or commit suicide.""Cities can be marvellous places of pleasure. What makes them strong also makes them fun."Block 735.53pm:I've got to give you a taste of Ed. He's a bit of a phenomenon. That was a 40-minute talk delivered in 18.Cities, he says, are where we connect and create collaboratively. Where we live more sustainably. Where life is better for everybody. Forget the mythical American ideal of small town life. Or the rural dream. The city, says Glaeser, is king.Block 746.00pm:Oh, this is justcheatingthough. The mayor of Rio,Eduardo Paes, has been sent up on to the stage to prove Ed Glaeser's point.Hmm. Well, yes, Rio would probably beat most small towns and villages in a match to the death. I'm not sure the mayor of Novosibirsk would be quite as convincing....Block 756.05pm:Aha!Somebody's got a similiar idea to my TED-o-matic automatic talk generator...#TEDand#SXSWshould have a lovechild so it can grow up to be a visionary designer who gamifies urbanism. Every day. Before breakfast.&mdash; Tom Morris (@tommorris)March 1, 2012Block 766.26pm:We've just been told the recipient of this year's TED prize, "City 2.0" is about to "unveil its wish". It's a shopping list, apparently, compiled by TED's headline urbanists.But in the meantime, here's a gorgeous time-lapse video of Quebec city here byDominic Boudreault.Block 776.34pm:An explainer of the City 2.0here.And, here we go, here's its spanking new website, just launched:www.thecity2.org.It's a platform, basically, to connect people to ideas, projects, resources all of which it's helped will make cities better.And the TEDsters in the audience are leaping to their feet and pledging cash and websites and...that zippy TED enthusiasm.Right, that's just about it.Oh no. Talk too soon. We've just had a woman from an NGO stand up and ask for a "conversation" with the mayor of Rio "on how to build better cities without throwing families out of their homes". I think she's referring to the rather delicate issue ofclearing favelas to make way for Olympic stadiums and super highways.Block 786.49pm:Right. That really is it. It's the end of a very long TED day. We've had flying "thinking" nano-robots who swarm like bees.And an aeroplane the shape and size of a humming bird. And the networked self. And the power of a secret told. And the triumph of the city.Personally, I think this is my favourite thing I found out today.Ifoundyourcamera.netIt's just so sweet...where people who've found photos try to re-unite them with the people in the photos.Here's one of their success stories with the photohere:That is me! And my husband, and son. And my now, very ill grandmother. I am hoping and praying this camera is still being kept by the people who found it. Thank you for making your site. These pictures mean more to me than you know. My son's birth is on this camera and he turns 4 tomorrow.Ah!Block 797.10pm:And singing us out are some teenagers belting out some gospel songs. It's theMama Foundation for gospel for teens.Right, and that really is all folks. Night, night.
Google is celebrating St David's Day with a doodle depicting a cartoon red dragon romping in a field of daffodils.The latest animation on the search engine's home page marks the Welsh patron saint's day, which is heralded by schools and cultural societies throughout the country.The tail of the dragon, which appears on the Welsh flag in less playful fashion, is wrapped around the 'l' of Google, while he clutches the symbolic flower in one claw.It is customary in Wales to wear either a daffodil or a leek on 1 March for the occasion.
Microsoft has released Windows 8 in trial form to the public, describing the first truly mobile version of its best selling software as a "generational change" in its approach to computing.The software isavailable to download now, before its commercial release in a few months time, and marks Microsoft's make-or-break bid to compete with Apple and Google in controlling the next generation of computers.Already downloaded by three million developers, the beta version of Windows 8 can from today be populated by dozens of applications. These will remain free until the commercial launch, and include redesigned versions of Amazon's Kindle e-book reader, games such as Cut the Rope, and the Vimeo video sharing site.Based on the well-regarded Metro interface which Microsoft developed for smartphones, Windows 8 is a recognition that the future of computing is mobile, and it is designed to work on touchscreens or with a keyboard and mouse, on gadgets ranging tablets and instant-on notebooks to more traditional laptops and PCs.In a break with the past – and a sign of where Microsoft thinks the market is moving –Windows boss Steven Sinofskychose to show off his new baby not at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, but at the annual Mobile World Congress in Barcelona."Windows 8 is a generational change in the Windows operating system," said Sinofsky, describing the release as Microsoft's most radical redesign since Windows 95, the version which launched Windows into worldwide fame. "We challenged ourselves to bring the best of mobility and the best of PCs, in an experience where you don't have to compromise."The redesign began three years ago, straight after the launch of Windows 7, and before the arrival of the first iPad, with Microsoft's developers making dummy versions of tablet computers out of cardboard to imagine what the real thing would feel like."As exciting as all these devices are today, we all face a little bit of a yearning," said Sinofsky. "We too often have to chose between consumption and productivity, more battery life or functionality, a tablet or a laptop, a touch interface or keyboard and mouse. You want to have these capabilities no matter where you are or where you are working. The operating system should just scale with you."Windows 8 will use the cloud to store users' preferences in the way they set up their computers – from home screen photos to the collection of apps or favourite websites. By signing in to any new Windows 8 device with a Microsoft ID, a user's personalised desktop will be summoned up instantly rather than needing to be recreated.In touchscreen mode, the Windows 8 screen can be unlocked by gestures. For example by touching each face in a family photo in a particular order. On a PC, where a mouse and keyboard are in use, the password remains typed.Once unlocked, the user is taken to a series of screens on which can sit dozens of live tiles, as Microsoft calls its app icons. As on its phones, these are animated by their content – the Twitter tile shows the latest posting to a feed, the Facebook tile the most recent photos uploaded by friends.Familiar smartphone gestures such as pinch to zoom out, tap to enlarge and swiping are all featured. The way a mouse is used has been updated – click on any of the four corners of the screen to summon up different menus, such as the apps list.More than one app can run at once, but only two can share the screen. Once opened, windows automatically size to fit, rather than overlapping each other. They appear to have three preset formats – quarter-, half- or three-quarter screen.Windows 8 may eventually make its way onto the living room screen. It is the first version of Windows adapted for the low power chips made by British company ARM Holdings that are present in 99% of all smartphones, tablets and even smart TVs.The new software has big boots to fill. Windows 7 sold 525m licenses, more than any of its predecessors. But its popularity was on the PC, and sales of PCs are being overtaken by more mobile devices.
Speculation about the future of Game Group was mounting last night after it emerged that the embattled retailer will not stockthe potentially best-selling video games Mass Effect 3and Mario Party 9.The expected loss of revenues is another severe blow to Game, which is battling for survival.Shares in the company crashed more than 20% at one stage to just over 5p.Game blamed a dispute with the publisher of Mass Effect 3, a company called Electronic Arts (EA), for the loss of the product, which is out on 9 March. The company will refund deposits to customers who have pre-ordered as well as giving customers a £5 voucher or reward points.EA said: "Game's challenges with several of its suppliers is regrettable, however given the incredibly high demand for Mass Effect 3 we want our consumers to know that the game is available at a wide variety of retailers across the UK and Europe."Game also confirmed that it will not be stocking Nintendo's Mario Party 9, from the best-selling Mario series, which is released this Friday."We are in talks with Nintendo to resolve this and we apologise to our customers for this disappointing news," a Game spokeswoman said. "We're doing as much as we can to give our customers the widest possible range, but as flagged before, we need our partners' help in order to do this."It was unclear whether future releases from EA and Nintendo would be affected.A bust-up with EA, one of its main suppliers, could jeopardise Game's ability to sell other upcoming titles such as The Sims 3 Showtime and the new Tiger Woods golf game.Game Group renegotiated terms with its suppliersrecently, which gave the firm some breathing space while it worked on a refinancing. It was thought to have told suppliers it would only trade on "manageable credit terms".Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at research firm IHS Screen Digest, said: "It's a big blow that they can't stock these bigger titles." But he added that it was in EA's own interest to sort this out."Game is a vitally important partner in terms of their distribution network. They will both be working for a solution that works for both companies."Game's lenders – Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays, HSBC, Caixa, Allied Irish Bank and Bank of Ireland – are wielding considerable influence over the business and are pressing for a sale of Game's overseas stores. It will need more cash to keep it going through to next Christmas.The longer-term issue for Game, and ailing rival HMV, is that many gamers have stopped going into high street shops and either download games or buy them online. They have lost ground to online retailers such as Amazon.com, Play.com and Blockbuster.But Harding-Rolls said it was too early to write off Game, with 1,274 stores around the world, including 610 in the UK.He said that Game had mapped out a strategy to become a market aggregator for these online games services by partnering with them, while GameStop in the US had gone down the acquisition route. Like other specialist game retailers, Game finds itself in uncharted waters."The game publishers themselves had to go through a similar transition. It's obviously more difficult for a highstreet retailer," he said.The physical games business is forecast to continue its decline this year, as the much smaller but rapidly growing, and highly profitable digital games market makes further inroads. Instead of splashing out £40 on a video game CD for a £200 console, increasing numbers of consumers opt for 69p smartphone apps such as Angry Birds.The launch of the new Wii U this year, and the mooted launch of an updated Microsoft Xbox 360 next year, should provide a fillip to the physical video games market.
How much do you want Google to know about you?On 1 March, the company will institute new "privacy policies" that will add substantial detail to the picture Google keeps of each user.Under the new rules the company will keep track of what you search for and how you use products like Google+, Gmail and YouTube. The information will be used, Google says, to "do things like suggest search queries – or tailor your search results – based on the interests you've expressed".Not comfortable with the idea of coming face-to-face with your web history every time you fire up your browser? (I could have been looking for Hannukah, hanging chad or handbrake – why does it assume hangover cure?)Here are five simple steps for keeping what you do on Google a little more private.1)Don't use Google.There are other search engines out there – and other email platforms – and none is so ambitious as Google about figuring out who you are, what you like and what you're like. Unfortunately, none are quite as good at what Google does either.2)Don't sign in.Or sign out of your Google account when you're not actively using Gmail, Google Calendar or Panoramio. (Let's face it: you've been spending way, way too much time on Panoramio). And when you sign back in, uncheck the "stay signed in" box.3)Change your settings.Look at the upper right-hand corner of your browser. See your Gmail address? Click it. A drop-down menu appears. Click "account settings." Scroll down to "services." Click "Go to web history." It will read: "Web history makes searches better." Click "No, thanks." You can also clear your web history from this screen. The same trick can be accomplishedhere.4)Use Google Chrome's "Incognito Mode,"or another private browsing mode. Don't be misled by the Incognito Mode icon, though. Simply wearing a trenchcoat, shades and a fedora while you browse will not keep your session private. Your computer won't collect cookies or record your online travels, but your server (or your company's server) will.5)Don't Google yourself.Difficult advice to follow, we understand, and it's more a general online privacy guideline than a step to rein in Google. But repeated searches for your name or personal information such as your address can create avirtual map that leads right to you.
Block 12.09pm:Hello and welcome to the Guardian's live blog of the Windows 8 preview here at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona with me, Juliette Garside.This has been described as Microsoft's make or break year. Today's event is arguably the most significant new product launch for Microsoft since Windows 1.0 introduced a graphical interface in 1985.Computing is going mobile, with PCs being outstripped by instant-on notebooks, tablets and smartphones. The first version to work on mobile devices, Windows 8 is Microsoft's bid to remain relevant in a consumer computing world now dominated by Apple and Google.It's a sign of where Microsoft thinks the market is going that it chose not the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas this January, but the mobile industry's annual showcase to unveil a consumer preview of its new software. From today, this test version of the software, which has so far been shown only to developers and in a very incomplete iteration, will be available to the public to download.The commercial launch will come later in the year, but what we know so far is that Windows 8 has a touch screen interface - with the option of just using a keyboard too - and is adapted for the low power chips made by British company ARM Holdings that are present in 99% of all smartphones, tablets and even smart TVs.What we may get a glimpse of today, in a presentation led by Microsoft Windows president Steven Sinofsky, is the updated Office word processing and powerpoint suites, adapted to a touch environment.Block 22.25pm:Steven Sinofsky is on stage. says I'm supposed to say we're 'super' excited to be here because that's our Microsoft thing.We started this project as we wound down the Windows 7 project, the most successful release of Windows of all time. We challenged ourselves to bring the best of mobility and the best of PCs, in an experience where you don't have to compromise.As exciting as all these devices are today, we all face a little bit of a yearning. We desire something better. We too often have to chose between consumption and productivity, more battery life or functionality, a tablet or a laptop, a touch interface or keyboard and mouse. Our industry has made you make this choice based on the capabilities of the operating platform. You want to have these capabilities no matter where you are or where you are working. The operating system should just scale with you.Block 34.40pm:[Charles Arthur writes: we apologise - Juliette had a technical problem which prevented her from filing here. We'll have a fuller piece about the Windows 8 launch as soon as possible.]
The key story at the Oscars on Sunday was a simple one. It had nothing to do with an unbearably lugubrious acceptance speech, a particularly ridiculous designer gown or a spurned director. The story was about nostalgia.This year, the ceremony was dominated by two films – The Artist and Hugo – that festishise the industry's past. Lots of critics talked about a pervading sense of reminiscence; some wondered if the real reason we love Michel Hazanavicius' homage to the silent movie era is because we sympathise with the lead character's sense of dislocation from modern technology. But whatever is going on, Hollywood has embraced the past.When you look across at the major video game awards, it is usually the most technologically advanced and sophisticated games that triumph. Even at the video game Baftas, where you'd expect artfulness and counter-cultural verve to stand a better chance, the big hitters are technological supremos like LA Noire and Batman: Arkham City. Could a backward-looking game ever win, say, the Spike TV Video Game Awards, or the Best of E3? Could a gaming equivalent of a silent black and white movie triumph in a mainstream ceremony? If not, why not?Well, of course, we all know one thing: games aren't like films. Not completely. Basic cinematic technique hasn't changed for several generations; sure, we have digital technology and stereoscopic 3D now, but the underlying processes and end experience are largely the same. With console games however, platforms are chucked out every 5-10 years so every practitioner has to continually re-learn from scratch how best to exploit the medium. Meanwhile on PC, graphics cards and chipsets update every 18 months or less, opening new visual paradigms every time. Technological momentum is a defining element of the experience.Some developers however,areseeing a similar nostalgic trend in video games. In the indie sector, especially, there is renewed enthusiasm for eighties visuals and genres: titles likeScoregasmandHeaven Varianthark back to classic shooter-'em-ups, while the much anticipated island exploration gameProteusdraws its graphical style from the days of the Commodore 64. Forthcoming crime shooter,Retro City Rampageexplicitly pastiches the early titles in the Grand Theft Auto series."Retro is a fashion," says inde developer Mike Bithell, whose own gameThomas Was Alone, sports simple stylised visuals. "It's a style that, at the moment, is specifically working for a hardcore nerd audience. For big wins outside of indie awards, that fashion will have to cross over into the mainstream. It feels like '60s and '80s retro is coming in a big way in fashion and film, so now might be the time for this look to step up in the game sphere. Even Syndicate had a bit of retro flavoured techyness."Of course, it's almost expected for indie titles to look somewhat nostalgic. Small studios don't have the resources to produce ultra-realistic visuals – plus, indie titles are often the products of small, sometimes even one-person, teams, so can be more subjective and open to Avant-Garde visuals. Which, of course, is not the same thing as nostalgic.Dan Pinchbeck, a lecturer in game design and co-creator of eerie indie adventureDear Esther, does see retrospective stylings creeping into mainstream titles – and argues that theyarebeing appreciated in major industry awards."You could easily call something like Super Mario Galaxy retro in a lot of ways," he says. "It's really polished of course, but in terms of the visual design it's definitely keeping a very early console feel to its environments, enemies and power-ups. Most mainstream games are still driven to a large extent by pushing graphics forward, but it does feel a little like it's leveling out a bit now, like ultra high-def photorealism isn't the only way to go."Skyrim looks dated in a lot of ways, and I think we're seeing that trade-off working where you are taking open worlds over closed-but-perfect visuals. And that's assuming we're talking console and PC titles – there are a load of massively successful, major award-winning mobile and casual games that are definitely retro in most ways."Bithell agrees. "The big pixelated elephant in the room is Minecraft," he says. "That game is winning a lot of awards. Arguably, that's for multiple reasons other than its aesthetic, but it might set a 'it's ok to be retro' vibe for future games – in the same way that black and white movies arguably stand more of a chance of awards in the future."Will Luton of Bristol-based studioMobile Piealso sees a general shift in game visuals away from photo-realism and toward more mannered and subjective approaches. "It is totally possible for a game to win major notoriety by using retro visuals," he says. "Videogames are much more prone even than movies, to intertextualise – they are filled with abstract symbols and have a short intense history which is keenly and widely followed. That makes them the perfect medium for a constant revival of its own past – or at least, its own past aesthetic.Luton, however, feels that the mistake some developers make is in replicating vintage experiences too closely, without contextualising them. "Retro games are fetishised because of emotional attachment," he says. "But their limitations are often forgotten. The audience has become more sophisticated and that is why reissues that do little to the base mechanics rarely succeed creatively and commercially. The Artist isn't really a silent movie – it is not paced or structured like one. Similarly, games that use the pace and mechanical structure of a retro game will fail to capture a modern audience's attention."Superbrothers: Sword &amp; Sworceryis a visually lush, and award-winning iOS game with retro aesthetics, interspersed with an astute self-awareness. You know you're playing a modern game, because of the narrative, control mechanic and its feel, even though it looks like an aged point-and-click adventure."Games, then, often reference their own past to establish atmosphere, or to convey a specific messages to the player – they might not do it in an overt way like The Artist, but they do it for similar reasons; as a shorthand to explore wider themes.And this message is getting through to the industry's award bodies. Interestingly, the Innovation category atthis year's Bafta awardsis dominated by titles that use visuals in an offbeat, almost retrospective way. LittleBigPlanet 2 is 2D, Bastion has an old-skool isometric style, Child of Eden litters its landscape with vector-style visuals. And on of the major titles, LA Noire, is essentially a traditional graphical adventure game with limited conversation trees and a highly regimented structure.Indeed, we probably do mainstream games a disservice by berating their obsession with flashy visuals and specious visual tricks. Underneath the photorealistic textures and intricately rendered lighting effects, there are similar concerns to The Artist and Hugo – a desire to uncover and render universal themes and concepts – to say something."I think it's almost impossible to break how something is represented away from what it is that's being represented," argues Pinchbeck. "You can take almost any great work of art and represent it so badly that it just becomes awful. What you can see in the history of games is often the same core concept being re-packaged by developing technology – and in the process of re-packaging, becoming something new; so the representational aspects of a game ARE the game in many ways – it's not just about the mechanics sitting behind the interface."That's particularly true of things like Skyrim, or Uncharted or Dead Space. It's not just about being stunning visually, it's about using that massive uplift in representational power to deepen the experience, to add subtle shades of experience that you couldn't do before. It was interesting that Rage, which looked absolutely gorgeous, got criticised because the visuals didn't have any depth behind them, any dynamism, which was seen as an integral part of visual design."So a game version of The Artist could well win a video game equivalent of an Oscar if it uses visuals in a way that heightens the underlying experience – even if those visuals are in some ways nostalgic? "I think games are driven by tech, at all levels, including ones we normally call artistic," says Pinchbeck."It's much harder to separate the art and tech of games out – they are interwoven. But for me, that's a strength of the medium, not a weakness."
As Google's executive chairman Eric Schmidt prepared to take the stage for his Tuesday Mobile World Congress keynote, journalists in the US were receiving an email from Apple inviting them to the iPad 3 launch event. It's safe to say the relationship between the two companies remains... complicated.Apple may have drawn some of the limelight away from Schmidt's speech, but MWC has been very much Android's show – and not just because its great frenemy doesn't have an official presence here.Android is on a tear right now, and there have been numerous reminders at the show. That includes the stats – 300m activated Android devices, 850k more every day and 1bn app downloads a month – and also the impressive latest wave of Android devices from Samsung, HTC and other manufacturers.The Android stand is thrumming with activity, including an array of developers talking enthusiastically about Android as an OS and as a business opportunity. Which, of course, they would – they're on Google's stand as guests after all – but it's a mood I've also caught from developers elsewhere at MWC.The majority of developers I've met say they are focusing on iOS and Android. In fact, the two are often run together: "iOSandAndroid" is definitely a mantra (although for interest, a decent number go on to say they're actively thinking about Windows Phone as their third platform).As in 2011, Google has scattered robot-logo bins of Android pin-badges around the MWC halls. The treasure hunt may have lost its surprise factor second time round, but it still makes its point effectively, contrasting Google's network of partnerships with manufacturers, operators and technology firms with Apple's more aloof stance.That's not to say one is preferable to the other – the truth is that both companies are succeeding hugely – but the pin-badges do hammer home Google's rapid progress in embedding itself in the mobile industry. Schmidt's speech also elicited a notably warmer response from MWC delegates than he has in the past, when Google was still seen as a threatening foe rather than a partner by the mobile operators.There are still wrinkles in the Android strategy, when it comes to apps and developers. A number of the booths on the Android stand are showing rich 3D games, for example: just the thing to show off the quad-core processors in the coming wave of Android devices.Yet these games are more expensive to develop, at a time when the demand for paid apps on Android remains a controversial debate. Perhaps the richer content will help create a healthier market for paid Android apps, or perhaps these developers will find success by adopting freemium business models. It is still early days.Actually, though, the most interesting thing about Android in relation to developers and apps is not what's happening in the US, UK and other well-developed smartphone markets.One of Schmidt's key points in his speech was the march of Android into more affordable handsets in the year ahead. "Many of our partners are working on phones in the $100-$150 range. The ultimate goal is a $70 device," he told delegates, while stressing that this could mean $20 or $30 for consumers, after operator subsidies.A burgeoning market for low-cost Android handsets – yes, even if they're not running the latest version of the OS – could create really interesting opportunities for apps in territories like China, India, Latin America and Africa. And this is without talking about the potential for affordable tablets in those places.Some of the apps taking advantage may be the ones that are popular in the western world – Rovio is certainly alive to the potential of getting its next 800m Angry Birds downloads from emerging markets, for example. But the opportunity is probably more about local developers in these countries, making apps that are relevant to the markets.This is by no means an open goal for Android. Western journalists and tech bloggers haven't written enough about what Nokia is doing with its Asha handsets, which are just as important to the company's future as its Windows Phone strategy, for example.However, one of the key trends at Mobile World Congress this year, for me, is that Android's success should not be judged solely against iOS, even if that rivalry is clearly front-of-mind for both companies at the moment.Supporting both platforms is increasingly a given for startups and developers in the western world. But it's the developers elsewhere in the world who may be starting with Android as their lead apps platform who are just as important to Google's mobile prospects in the years to come.
One of the more dramatic moments at this year's Mobile World Congress – the industry's monster annual get together in Barcelona – came when Vodafone chief executive Vittorio Colao had to be evacuated, along with a room full of journalists, from the company's pavilion.The building had buckled and was being propped up by a forklift truck. Collapsing, as Colao quipped, under media pressure.Meanwhile, the Chinese were out in force. Huawei, the network equipment maker, took over an entire pavilion the size of a bus garage. Security guards in sunglasses barred entrance to anyone who did not have a meeting.Huawei used Barcelona to launch a phone and a tablet computer with "quadcore" processors, designed in house, and so powerful no phone has a use for them yet.By next year, the company wants to treble handset sales to 60m, a number that could turn Huawei into the fourth largest smartphone maker overnight.While the East is in the ascendant, with Samsung having seized top spot in the smartphone race last year, the European companies that created the mobile phone industry are indeed under pressure.Nokia has been left trailing by Apple and Samsung, and cost cutting saw the last of its European factories closed, with production now largely in Asia. Meanwhile, Europe's big five mobile operators are starting to feel the pinch of regulator imposed cuts to call prices.They gaze longingly at Apple's $500 (£314) share price, the near $100bn cash pile it has amassed, or at Google which just achieved its first $10bn revenue quarter. These fortunes were built using their networks, but the profits are not spilling back into Europe.Telefonica and a number of other operators, faced with declining income and a need to ramp up investment in order to carry the internet traffic being generated by Apple and Google customers, have been cutting dividends.They are no longer the cash cows they once were. Google chairman Eric Schmidt's comment at Barcelona that the mobile operators are being "regulated to death" overstates the case though. France Telecom still has margins of over 30% (before tax and the spend on its network), while many other European operators have margins of 40% and above.They may need a breather from new price cuts as money is ploughed into building faster networks, but anyone using their phone abroad will know that competition alone does not always deliver a fair price for the customer. Regulators still have a role to play.
