The case againstThis motion addresses fundamental issues for the future of the internet in the UK, and worldwide. The Internet Watch Foundation is at the heart of the debate as it was set up by internet service providers to help police criminal content, primarily child pornography, and avoid a severe threat to civil liberties.Based on experience in IWF and elsewhere, there are demonstrably some workable means for government to police the internet. But the means are very different from traditional approaches to older media. They need to be through partnership and co-regulation with industry rather than authoritarian enforcement.The UK government and law enforcement were perhaps the first to realise that they would best achieve their objectives by working with the ISP (internet service provider) industry rather than against it. There is now a familiar pattern of public reporting of suspect content through a hotline, followed by a notice and take down procedures to remove content assessed as illegal by the hotline. It has been taken up in similar forms by half-a-dozen other European countries, in the USA and most recently in Australia.Similar co-regulatory solutions seem to emerge on the heels of other problems. Labelling and filtering addresses the threats of content potentially harmful to children. E-commerce will pose big problems, but the size and economics of the market make willing bedfellows of govern ment, industry and law enforcement to provide safe trading.Thus workable means for governments to police emerging problems on the net are already in place. I would stress workable: they are not perfect, just as policing off-line is far from perfect.In each of the emerging measures, governments are being obliged to rely on co-regulatory modes of operation. The net's architecture itself allows individual users of the internet to keep control of their choices about how they use it.Most people have an offshore option to avoid unreasonable restraints. So   government policing in the workable forms I advocate poses little threat to fundamental civil liberties.In my view, the greatest danger to civil liberties arises if governments do not learn how to achieve adequate regulation by new means and are panicked into imposing authoritarian measures, even if that means throwing the baby out with the bath water.Thus my conclusion contradicts the motion: there is a severe threat to civil liberties if governments do not find workable ways to police the internet.&#149;  David Kerr, chief executive, Internet Watch Foundation.The case forThe internet, as a global medium, is thought to be the land of free speech and democracy. However, we are at a time when censorship of the internet is increasing in the UK. Internet content is facing censorship from public bodies, the service providers and private regulatory bodies such as the Internet Watch Foundation.Following the judgment in the Demon case, the ISPs have been pressured to take down internet content for allegedly carrying defamatory content under the Defamation Act 1996.For example, the website of Jim Hulbert, which was critical of some judges and the Lord Chancellor's department, was taken down in November   1999 following a "notice" being sent to a Hull-based ISP.In February, the Portia website dealing with miscarriages of justice was taken down by an ISP following a "notice" given by the solicitors of the Police Federation.More recently, the website of the Campaign Against Censorship of the Internet in Britain has been removed from its UK ISP's servers and re-allocated to a server in the US. This followed a complaint by Laurence Godfrey whose case with Demon Internet was discussed on the Campaign's website. This coincided with the censorship of the Outcast magazine's website because lawyers acting for another publishing company claimed "an article might be published   on the site at some point in the future, and that such an article might be critical of their client".The state of UK laws forces the ISPs to be defendant, judge, and jury at the same time. Holding an ISP responsible for content published by their customers and third parties has serious implications for the preservation of freedom of expression and political speech. This is censorship by the back door and needs to be strenuously resisted. It would therefore be more appropriate for the government to take the ISPs out of the liability chain.In January 2000, the government-supported Internet Watch Foundation announced it would try to apply its self-regulation approach to racism on the net. The IWF plan raises important questions of transparency and accountability as it is not a public body. Removal of objectionable though legal content from the net without due process would certainly amount to censorship.We should not forget that those who need protection from censorship are mostly those who present the ideas that offend, shock or disturb. "Such are the demands of that pluralism, tolerance or broadmindedness without which there is no democratic society," as the European Court of Human Rights stated several times in its judgments. If the UK is to become the best place for e-commerce, it should also offer the best protection for individual rights and liberties.&#149;  Yaman Akdeniz is director of Cyber-Rights &amp; Cyber- Liberties (UK)www.cyber-rights.org&#149; David Kerr and Yaman Akdeniz will be speaking tomorrow evening at an Oxford Union Debate, Beyond Control or Through the Looking Glass? Threats and Liberties in the Digital Age. It will be chaired by Simon Waldman of Guardian Unlimited.Seewww.guardianunlimited.co.uk/freespeechfor details.   For tickets seewww.hcu.ox.ac.uk/beyondor call 01865 273221.
Pok&eacute;mon goldLike best-selling music discs, videogames can now win gold, silver and platinum discs for sales in the UK. The Volume Sales Awards have been organised by Elspa (European Leisure Software Publishers Association) and are based on individual format sales monitored by ChartTrack UK.Titles need to shift 100,000 units to go silver, 200,000 units for gold and 300,000 units for the platinum award.The first two platinum awards have just been presented for Sony's Gran Turismo 2 and Electronic Arts's Fifa 2000, both on the PlayStation. Four gold awards have gone to James Bond: Tomorrow Never Dies (MGM/Electronic Arts) and Tomb Raider 4: The Last Revelation (Eidos) plus Pok&eacute;mon Red and Pok&eacute;mon Blue on the Nintendo Game Boy.PC=PS2?Nvidia, the leading graphics chip manufacturer, says it has achieved performance very close to the Sony PlayStation 2 with the latest version of its GeForce chip, announced yesterday. The GeForce GPS should be available in boards from PC graphics card manufacturers such as Creative Labs in the first half   of next month. Nvidia has also received $200 million from Microsoft to fund the development of an even faster graphics chip for its X-Box games console.Most men do itAmerica's Interactive Digital Software Association says that 60% of Americans over the age of six - 145 million of them - now play video computer games, and the average player is 28 years old. Perhaps surprisingly, 43% of gamers are female, according to the telephone survey conducted by Peter D Hart Research Associates. Now the 95% who are spotty 15 year olds are trying to figure out where they're hiding...Big gameThe world's biggest game of Tetris has been played by a group of Brown University students. They used one side of the 14-storey science library for the screen, which was built using 10,000 Christmas lights in wooden frames, and 3,000 feet of cable. It's a game, it's an integrated art installation, and it's a candidate for the Guinness Book of World Records. Seehttp://bastilleweb.techhouse.org
T-Babe is tipped to become the next pop music sensation. She's blonde, very sexy and is reported to have a great voice. Her     supermodel looks have already caught the eye of Vogue magazine which has booked her for a forthcoming issue. In many ways     T-Babe looks like a typical pop star.        But she is fundamentally different to the likes of Geri Halliwell and Britney Spears: she's computer-generated.      T-Babe is the creation of Scotland-based Glasgow Records, which also has two real bands on its books. The company is building     her a dedicated website, and is working on a pop video and her first single, scheduled to be released this summer. Before then     MP3 teasers will be released to stoke up interest among the teen market.        Glasgow Records' managing director Tessa Hartmann, has worked on advertising campaigns for Burger King and Diet Coke.     Visuals of T-Babe and her biographical details were all run past teenage focus groups before being loaded onto the site."From our research, kids could identify with an individual who has the same strengths and weaknesses as they have. T-Babe is     as real as any other 18 year old. She dyes her hair blonde. She is fashion conscious and she wears underwear from Asda," says     Hartmann, who admits she is astonished by the response to her virtual pop star. Over the last few months, the site atwww.glasgowrecords.comhas had more than 130,000 hits.        T-Babe is said to be pioneering a new form of music, cybo-funk. "It's got a pop feel but its roots are definitely soul and R&amp;B,"     says Hartmann.      Squeaky clean virtual pop stars don't get drunk and trash hotel rooms and don't get busted for drugs. But are they too     manufactured to succeed? Hartman thinks not. "There isn't a record company that doesn't put marketing into every pop star.   We're just using the technology that's available."T-Babe's biggest rival is Germany's virtual star, E-Cyas, created by I-D Media. There are plans for E-Cyas to launch a UK single at     the end of this month with the slightly tongue-in-cheek title, Are You Real? It went to number 78 in the German charts but has     been remixed for the UK with more of a dance feel.      E-Cyas has been described as a cross between Keanu Reeves, George Michael and Ricky Martin. I-D Media is hoping to     organise E-Cyas gigs in the UK where his image will be projected on to screens. If his popularity continues to grow, the company     thinks he could tour Europe and eventually get his own TV show.        In Germany, teenage girls have gone wild about E-Cyas (which stands for electronic cybernetic artificial superstar). "He gets     hundreds of emails a day, asking him what he eats and if it's cold in cyberspace," says I-D Media. He's also received plenty of     online marriage proposals.On his website,www.e-cyas.com, E-Cyas gives a frank, in-depth interview. Asked if he is a person or a machine, he tells his fans:     "Neither. I definitely exist for real, without question. But the people I talk to still have difficulty understanding that I am not just a     piece of software."E -Cyas can't resist a dig at boy bands either. "The truth of the matter is that these bands which have been put together by     managers from lists of candidates are much more out of reach for their fans than an avatar," he says. "Whenever my fans need     me, I am there for them... everyone can get hold of me in cyberspace."        Lara Croft probably helped spawn this latest crop of virtual pop stars and we are likely to see many more. There are strong     rumours that both Simon Fuller, former Spice Girls manager, and Tom Watkins, who used to manage the Pet Shop Boys, are     planning to get in on the act.      NME editor Ben Knowles is scathing about virtual pop stars and sees them as the next step from bland mass-marketed boy     bands. All they do, he says, is reduce the cost of troublesome and expensive auditions for the usual clean cut, would be teen     models."I cannot imagine the next Oasis will be a group of computer-generated people.      "A computer-generated Liam Gallagher would be an incredibly scary proposition."
Digital filmBritish director Mike Figgis's latest film, Time code, claims to be the first digital film shot in real time. The website atwww.timecode2000.comgives a good demonstration of what downloading short movies is all about.New sites specialising in downloadable films are being announced almost every month. A new one,eveo.com, plans to prove there is money to be made in digital film: it will pay filmmakers a nickel every time one of their films is shown.The fourth Onedotzero festival starts in London tomorrow. The festival at the ICA and Lux cinemas has eschewed the web and atonedotzero.comis restricted to showing start times and mission statements. Shame.Wap emulatorEricsson unleashes its Wap Smartphone R380 soon. The handset has a larger screen than its Nokia rival and the graphic interface is much crisper. Check it out by downloading the Ericsson emulator atwww.symbian.com/epoc/r380wapemulator.htmlThe Wap portal atwww.gelon.netsays a web-based Ericsson emulator will be available on its site very soon, and Kannel.org is now offering the first "open source" Wap code.Money mapUS investment portal Smartmoney.com has released a neat web-based tool that lets you see the state of the New York Stock Exchange.Once the Java applet has launched, each sector of the market is colour-coded, bullish stocks turning green, bears turning red. Seewww.smartmoney.com/marketmapBabbageCharles Babbage invented the first computer, the analytical engine, back in 1873, and designed a successor, the    difference engine, that wasn't built until the Science Museum completed the job in 1991. A printer was built only last month, and tests indicate that it is an astonishingly advanced machine that can print the results of intricate calculations and be programmed to print documents in different ways. More details atwww.sciencemuseum.org.uk/press/babbage.htmlWell matchedSaturday sees the official launch of the Lowry Centre in Salford Quays. It has a new website atwww.thelowry.org.ukwhich, though full of beautifully presented information, is almost free of the great man's paintings. However, one aficionado has curated an online gallery atwww.btinternet.com/~kevplees/index.html. Also, there is a very good US site selling Lowry prints atwww.lslowry.com.Six of the bestGM foodMonsanto's verdictwww.pharmacia.comCharlie's viewwww.princeofwales.gov.uk/forumNuffield Foundationwww.nuffield.org/bioethicsSelect committee reportwww.parliament.the-stationery-office.co.ukHave your saywww.futuradesign.co.uk/gm/Follow the argumentwww.guardianunlimited.co.uk
Incredibly gory graphicsSoldier of FortunePC &#163;39.99 Raven/Activision ****It uses a modified version of the Quake 2 graphics "engine" and sets you as a lone hero against the bad guys. Yes, it's another first person shooter for the PC, but Soldier of Fortune offers authenticity above and beyond the call of duty.For a start the plot has had more than the customary three minutes' work, mixing Kosovo, nuclear weapons and Hollywood action. Nevertheless it's the incredibly gory graphics that stand out.As you'd expect of a game licensed from a US gun mag there are heaps of authentic weaponry, but it's the accuracy of the onscreen damage that will bolster any anti-video game cause. You can hit someone in the arm, leg or nether regions with increasing graphic detail and the blood-spattered action rarely lets up. Crucially, though, this   realism extends both ways, so taking a shot to the head means game over.Add this to the lack of save points, health packs and other reminders that you're only playing a game, and you can pretty much justify most of the wilder excesses. That's   not to say that one less crotch wound wouldn't have been welcomed but the real-life feel is the key to this. Rather than running around blasting in a Quake style, you tend to take a more measured approach, and before long the game becomes compelling.Some of the levels are unimaginatively designed and the graphic violence won't be to everyone's taste (although you can tone down the visuals) but the challenge and genuine tension will appeal to Rambo fans everywhere.  (GH)Lost in the labyrinthRed DogSega Dreamcast &#163;39.99 Argonaut ****Trade magazine MCV has classed this as a driving game and it would make a great one: imagine up to four wheeled buggies careering through underground caverns and other 3D scenarios.Actually it's a sort of motorised first person shooter, which Argonaut Software's founder Jez San, referring to the company's old Nintendo hit, has called Star Fox in a Tank, according toSegaweb.The action is fast, the graphics are terrific, the sound effects are great, and the techno-style music is pretty good too. But it's   not for the faint-hearted. The missions last too long and the end of level bosses are vicious: the one-player mode is too hard for me unless someone finds an "infinite lives" cheat.Still, at least the programmers have foregone the bits of physics that would have your cross between a tank and a beach-buggy turned upside down most of the time.As well as 15 single-player missons, the game has lots of multi-player arenas with a variety of options including bomb tag, king of the hill, flag runner and death match modes.  Argonaut is promising more arenas and more weapons that can be downloaded into the Dreamcast's VMU.But if you have nightmares about being trapped in a maze of twisty tunnels and attacked by a plague of scorpion-like aliens, this is not the game for you.  (JS)Things that go clunk in the nightThief IIPC &#163;33.43 Looking Glass Studios/ Eidos Interactive ***The original Thief was a deserved hit, but a flawed one. It was a first-person action adventure, but the idea was not to blast everything that moved; instead, as cheeky tea leaf Garrett, you snuck around the various levels lining your pockets and doing your best to steer clear of trouble. It was a neat twist on a dying genre, with an involving storyline and immaculately designed missions. It also had graphics not seen since Pam Ayres was last on TV.Thief hit the shelves only 18 months ago, so it's no surprise that the follow-up comes with broadly the same pros and cons as its progenitor.So, for example, it's still teeth-grindingly tough. With a total of 71 controls to commit to memory, it's a devil to get your head round in the first place and, once you have, the merest slip of coordination will bring your half-inching days to a messy end.What's more, given the precariousness of your trade,   load times are still frustratingly long. And despite Looking Glass's claims that the visuals have been substantially improved, the character models are again deeply ropey. The first time you attract attention, you'll be choking on your own blood before you realise the hideous triangle monster that just attacked you is in fact a poorly rendered human guard.But as before, the point of the exercise is largely to avoid all other characters, so the low-resolution opponents don't spoil the fun too much.Also, the low demands on processing power mean that gameplay is extremely smooth, and the sound and lighting create a suitably suspenseful mood. Most importantly, the engaging plot and ingenious level design are every bit as good as before. There's hardly a point in the game when you feel remotely safe; even when tucked away in a shadowy corner, you worry that a -passing guard will hear your pounding heart all the way from the real world. There are also some useful new toys and dastardly new enemies, offering a genuinely different challenge to veteran players.Like its predecessor, then, Thief II is an interesting idea, put together with real loving care. But not an awful lot of expertise.  (AB)
Hewlett-Packard is about to launch the sleekest, most stylish and most powerful range of palmtop computers on the market, the Jornada 540 series, running Microsoft's latest Pocket PC software. Compaq and Casio are also using the new operating system, and have new Pocket PCs on the way. The systems, announced last week, are almost certain to make a dent in Palm's dominant share of the palmtop computer market.However, not everyone needs the power and versatility Pocket PCs offer. Most people won't care how much more they can do, as long as the Palm does what they want.But it's hard to see Palm's colour machine, the IIIc, surviving the Jornada's onslaught. The Palm IIIc's screen is smaller both physically and in terms of its resolution, offering only 160 x 160 pixels compared with the Jornada's 240 x 320. Worse, the IIIc shows only 256 colours instead of the Jornada's 65,536, so images - including web pages - look crude by comparison.Nor does the Palm IIIc have any advantages in size or battery life, which are virtually the same, or even price.The main differences are that the Jornada provides more facilities (web browser, MP3 player etc), more memory (16MB or 32MB instead of 8MB), much more built-in software (16MB compared with 2MB), and much more expandability. However, the IIIc is noticeably lighter at 192g against the Jornada's 260g.If the HP Jornada is bad news for Palm's prospects of selling colour machines, it's not going to make life easy for its rivals, Casio and Compaq. Both plan to offer the new Pocket PC software - aka Windows CE 3.0 - in what are basically lastgeneration machines pending the arrival of new designs. Casio, for example, has announced the Cassiopeia E-115 to replace the E-105, but it's basically the same boxy-looking machine.Compaq has simply installed the new software in its superthin Aero systems, which have monochrome screens but display 16 shades of grey. (And if you   bought an Aero 1520 or 2100 after February 24, Compaq will upgrade it free.)Compaq is also bringing out a new range of iPaq Pocket PC devices (pictured right) in the summer. These are remarkably quick - they have 206MHz Intel StrongARM processors - and the basic design can be expanded by fitting one of a series of Jackets. The first two will provide standard CompactFlash and PC Card slots, but later versions could provide, for example, pager or mobile phone functions. A "boom box" Jacket with built-in speakers could convert the iPaq into an MP3 music player thatdoesn't need headphones.Most Windows CE/Pocket PC computers already have a standard CompactFlash or PC/PCMCIA Card slot built in, and this highlights the Palm's greatest weakness: its poor expandability. The HP Jornada's CompactFlash comptibility meant I could use existing peripherals such as Pretec's 56K modem and Socket's $139 LP-E Ethernet card.Both Socket and Xircom have already demonstrated a CompactFlash Bluetooth card for "personal area networking" (Bluetooth replaces wires for connecting devices up to about 10m apart). You can even get CompactFlash hard drives - IBM's 170MB and 340MB Microdrives - which is a   great way to exploit the Pocket PCs built-in stereo MP3 music player software.The original designers of the Palm Pilot tried to remedy the problem by leaving to set up a new company, Handspring, and by launching a new machine, the Visor, pictured left. This has the same easy-to-use Palm software, but different hardware. In particular, the Visor has its own Springboard expansion slot on the back.Handspring says a range of cartridges could be available: a pager, a modem, an MP3 music player, memory cards and game packs. Unfortunately it's not an industry standard like the CompactFlash slot used by the Pocket PC. The Handspring system - which will be launched in the UK on May 4 - means you can't   simply plug in CompactFlash memory cards from your digital camera and other devices.Which is not to say that the Pocket PC arena is without its own compatibility problems. For example, Casio has designed a camera that fits into a CompactFlash slot but - like Sharp's earlier PC Card camera - it is expected to work only with its own systems.HP plans to launch the Stowaway fold-up keyboard, which is already available for Palm systems, for the Jornada range, but it won't work with rival hardware. And while Compaq says its iPaq Jackets are "based on a new open standard technology", the Jackets will only fit Compaq's machines.Further, unlike the Palm, the Pocket PC may also have software compatibility problems. Windows CE isn't just a palmtop operating system, it's used in more than 350 products including games consoles, gambling machines, vibration detectors, petrol pumps and videophones (Orange is due to release one in the UK this year).CE also runs on 21 different processor families including Mips, Intel x86, StrongARM and Hitachi SH chips. Indeed, the three manufacturers making Pocket PCs for retail sale use different processors, so the same executable programs won't run on   more than one. While few Palm owners have any idea which chip their machine uses, Pocket PC buyers will have to know which version of each program - Mips, StrongARM or Hitachi SH3 - to download.This problem will eventually be solved by the release of a Common Executable Format (CEF) that will enable software houses to create one version of a program for different machines - but Microsoft hasn't announced it yet.Whether the Pocket PC will ultimately triumph over the Palm and its clones remains to be seen, but they are based on different views of the world. Microsoft is betting that users will want to do more and more things with their Pocket PCs: they already work as electronic organisers, MP3 players, electronic book readers, picture viewers and games machines. Soon they'll work as pagers, mobile phones, and wireless terminals, too.If that's what people want, Microsoft wins - though the result is a complex device, even given the vastly simplified Pocket PC user interface.Palm systems are much simpler, and while they don't do as much, they are very easy to use: you can be up and running within five minutes. If they do all you want to do, Palm wins - unless you want a colour screen as well, because the Palm IIIc simply isn't good enough. Putting a IIIc next to a Jornada 540 is like putting a Ford Fiesta next to an Aston Martin.
Fence firstI've just read the article about Online Caroline being touted as something fresh and new, a "fake" web cam. However, this has been done before. Last November in a six-week web cinema project, WebCinemaConcretwww.idea.org.uk/cinemaconcret, we looked at ways of using film grammar successfully in an online, streaming medium.One work was fencecam.com, which can be seen atwww.gorgeous.org.uk/fencecamabout a petty criminal, secretly filmed by a "friend". This used the webcam format, supplemented by edited highlights as QuickTime movies.  So Freeserve is really three months behind the game, rather than ahead of it.Have a look atartSlab, an ongoing experimental art site. We do a live stream (RealPlayer), audio and video, every Thursday night, at around 7pm GMT, and unlike most streaming media sites, we produce our own work (every week, without any budget).Nik Kraakenesnikolas.kraakenes@tvc.org.ukWhat I meantIn my letter published on April 13 I tried to make two points and apparently did so badly, resulting in the reply from Peter Tucker. I did not intend that all sites should be rewritten in wireless markup language. This would be of little use and a waste of most of the capabilities of the net.I wanted to see all attachments sent in common format so as to be accessible to PC, Mac and other computers,and also to web TV appliances and the more capable Wap (wireless application protocal) appliances. I hoped that this would make the web less intimidating to the millions   who must be brought online if it is to achieve the status it needs if web commerce is to have a future.I would also like to see simplification of web pages. Small things like slightly less dense graphics, a little more open space and perhaps fewer fonts would make sites more accessible.I do not see why mouse navigation is set as standard. I am sure that use of function keys could be added to sites as well as mouse use. This would make web TV surfing easier, and I personally prefer not using the mouse on my Windows system, as I find keyboard navigation easier. I doubt that using a mouse on your lap while trying to read a web page on TV would be a rewarding experience.Widespread use of ADSL broadband connections will make all the above unnecessary for those who can afford it. Don't forget, however, that a lot of BT customers can still only download at 28.8Kb/s.Chris EmeryChrisdemery@chrisdemery.fsnet.co.ukUsability?My enthusiasm for Jacob Neilson's work is a matter of record. My recent letter (Content First) in Online refers to "It's so smart to be simple".That's why I would like his reaction to the gnomic remark from his collaborator Donald Norman: "I say usability is always secondary. You go to get something done."What in God's name is usability if it is not providing the ability to get something done?It is not just reducing the number of words on the page as in Google.com, admirable though this site is. A site is not usable if it has too little information to allow the user to proceed.John Ashurstjohn.ashurst@blackboardzen.co.ukLyrics found IIRe lyrics on the web (Feedback, April 13), an interesting site iswww.summer.com.br/~pfilho/html/top40/index.htmlIt lists the US top 40 song lyrics from 1933 to 1998.Paul Hartmannguycroft@clara.co.uk
It's Wednesday evening and 22 young women are piling in to the brightly-lit basement of the Cyberia Cafe in Camden, London. They gather in a red wine-warmed atmosphere to hear insights and advice from a highly successful woman internet entrepreneur, Sonia Lo.Their backgrounds are not necessarily technical, ranging from anthropology, set design, funds management and publishing to information technology. Yet all are part of a networking group keen to conquer - either by learning or teaching - the overwhelming fear of technology that keeps the lure and appeal of the internet at arm's length from many women.However, theWebgrrls, as they are known, are in for a shock. Their male-exclusive networking meeting is about to be hijacked by an intelligent and eager young man called David (not his real name) who had wandered past the cafe and saw the sign advertising Sonia Lo's talk. He dominates the question time allowed after the talk, ignoring the glares from the women, most of whom had become silent and unwilling to ask questions in his presence.Was he brave? Certainly. Confident? Definitely. Asked why he did not limit his questions, David said: "I asked interesting questions, all the women wanted to hear the answers." A fair response but a reason why more groups like Webgrrls are springing up across the globe. They make themselves exclusive because they desire a forum which is non-competitive and that allows ignorant questions to be asked without embarrassment.The common complaint is that the nurturing of ideas and   learning does not happen when those of the XY chromosome are present, as women feel intimidated and inadequate. It's a reason some women have scratched First Tuesday, the most popular and successful mixed networking technology group in London, from their contact books.The argument for sex segregation is more commonly found in school education. However, the net has brought about a new learning age. The statistics support such a need. Only 40% of the UK's 7.8 million estimated internet users are women and one in three of the hundreds of internet firms founded each month across Britain have a female behind them. The number of women working in the top echelons of internet companies is also too few.May Chong, who founded the London chapter of Webgrrls last October and now has 150 members, explains the importance of women networks. "A lot of women are hesitant to network when there are lots of men. Our mission is to support women who are   interested in new media or want to support new media. We want to bring the internet to more women, including grandmothers."Webgrrls started five years ago in New York and has grown globally to 30,000 members providing courses, mentoring, lectures and job placement. There are splinter operations in Bristol, Yorkshire and Cambridge. However, it is still dwarfed by mixed groups such as First Tuesday which claims 30,000 members in the UK alone and 60,000 worldwide, with a ratio of about 80% men to 20% women.Chong notes a frustrating curiosity of London Webgrrls is that 90% of members are not British born - a phenomenon she can't explain except that women's networking groups often are mistaken as being about "bra burning or being run by bunch of feminists".She adds with a smile that "quite of a lot of men are interested in coming along because it is all women". E-women, which has a more corporate membership and title than Webgrrls, targets   women already working in new media. It started in January and its membership has grown to 500.Lopa Patel, one of the four co-founders of e-women explains the need for "geek girls" clubs. "There are fewer of us in new media in comparison to men," she says. "Members of e-women voted for the forum to remain women only as they value the openness of our sessions and the different way women communicate with each other. The focus of e-women is not just about female entrepreneurs but a broad range of issues relating to new media. It's more about learning and knowledge exchange."Of clubs like First Tuesday, Patel said her experience was "intimidation". "If you don't have business-to-business or Wap &#91;wireless application protocol&#93; in your start-up strategy then they don't want to know you."Sonia Lo, who has been a telecommunications consultant and venture capitalist, started her own business,eZoka.com, last September. This business-to-business internet company helps reduce the fixed costs of the "little guys" by using its buying power to get their services and products cheaper from major suppliers. Lo believes if a woman can balance a cheque book then she is more than capable of running an internet company."Women traditionally haven't been seen to be good at numbers and they end up in marketing or human resources," Lo said. "Or if a woman is chief executive, she's at the creative interface rather than operating interface." However, the blame is   not entirely laid at a male-dominated tech industry. Lo said one of the frustrating aspects of women is they are "self-selective", often ruling themselves out of a job or challenge because they do not think they have the skills or competence.She has started a series of monthly dinners for women internet entrepreneurs and venture capitalists to exchange ideas and keep in touch with the daily changes that occur in the fast paced online world. Lo is also planning to establish a fund that invests in new media ventures run by women.The immediate criticism of all-women networking groups is the limitation it puts on contact with men who may provide internet start-ups with finance, important advice or contracts in the new media. If men are also sitting at the top of the employment structures in technology companies then women may also be missing career opportunities.Another obvious point about "women.com" groups is that females have to work side-by-side with men eventually, even in the new information society where virtual offices can exist.Julie Meyer, co-founder of First Tuesday, agrees that a male internet environment is competitive. But she adds: "I have just as many male role models in my life as women." Nor is she convinced that competition is a bad thing. "The way men and women communicate is dominated by men and they like that communication to be in a way that's meaningful to them."One of Meyer's role models is Sonia Lo. "She's particularly impressive to me. There are a lot of women out there who can be very persuasive and so far she beats them. She out-reasons, out-logics people and she doesn't suffer fools gladly."One criticism Meyer makes about women finding it difficult to communicate at a business level with men is cosmetic. "You tell people how seriously you take yourself by what you wear. I see a lot of women wearing very inappropriate things."However, even successful women like Lo do not find it an easy road to hoe. Lo recalls explaining eZoka's business model to a male venture capitalist who was a potential investor. One aspect of eZoka's business model, interestingly enough, is networking. "He said to me: 'Isn't   networking what bored housewives do to earn a little pin money?'" The remark still grates. "You have to be really thick skinned, super thick skinned."Women's networking groups are constantly addressing the difficulty in obtaining funding. At the Webgrrls meeting on Wednesday night, Sally Meecham, a former set designer, talked of the need to find investors for her business,traveldonkey.com, a website that provides independent travel advice on thousands of destinations (as highlighted in Online last week).Meecham's story is told by thousands of internet start-  ups. She borrowed &#163;15,000 from the bank and her family, and with business model in place, she now needs further capital to take the business to the next stage. The need for venture capital is not all about funding as it is also about getting on board a reputable shareholder who will give your business credibility.In addition to financing, another common question mulled over at women's networking meetings is balancing family life with the demands of the high tech industry that requires long hours, late nights and travel. The need for more role models in the technology field; pay inequality; questions on how to build a brand for internet businesses and also learning about new technologies such as wireless application protocol, are also issues that are discussed.The argument for more   women to become involved in new technologies and the internet also spreads to the design and offering of women's portals. Caroline Sceats ofFletcher Researchargues that women's websites, such ashandbag.comandcharlottestreet.com, are not that popular with women because they don't like being singled out by gender as a niche market and because the sites are generally run by men.Instead such sites need to offer much more compelling personalised services if they are to differentiate themselves from other glossy magazine sites like Vogue, says Sceats. "Otherwise," she warns, "women's portals will lose out to non-gender specific sites with content that individuals of both sexes want to use."Lo adds: "I'm not a big fan of women portals. Being a Korean-American, I don't like segregation on race or gender."The anti-women's portal argument is interestingly at odds with the need for gender specific networking groups. The merits that all-women networking groups would argue for their existence is that they are helping pioneer the way for women to put their own stamp on the internet; become more visible and level the playing field. Some women's portals, it may be said, also aspire to achieve those goals.Despite these reasons, Meyer maintains that mixed networking groups can work for women. "The reason networking is important is it puts people as much a possible on a level playing field. There are real opportunities for women to get out there and compete with the best."AddressesWebgrrls meets at the Cyberia Cafe 39 Whitfield Street, London W1P 5RE, on the third Wednesday of the month. Seewww.webgrrls.org.uke-women is holding a seminar on internet start-ups tonight at Sun Microsystems, Regis House, 45 King William Street, London EC4R 9AN, from 6pm-9.30pm Tickets cost &#163;20, including wine and buffet. For other events seewww.e-women.org
What is the free software movement trying to achieve?All published software should be free software. Everyone should have the freedom to study it, to change it, and to redistribute it. The outcome depends on many people: it's up to the public to choose freedom or not.Has the movement become too much of a success, in that people are using free software for the wrong reasons?That's not too much of a success, that's a much more specific problem: people forgetting the goal of the movement, the goal of freedom, and being sidetracked into merely practical considerations. That could lead to total failure because nobody will hold on to freedom except by valuing it.But most of the people using free software choose it because it works well and doesn't cost very much.That's one example of how fragile the foundation of our freedom is. I'm glad that free software today is powerful and reliable, but if people don't appreciate the freedom and community, they'll probably let it slip through their fingers.Isn't what we've got now merely the development of commercial software by other means?I don't see anything wrong with that as long as it's free software. Red Hat is developing free software and some of it's part of the GNU project. And if they're doing that as part of a business, more power to them. I'm all in favour of businesses if they do business in a way that respects our freedom and our community. Most software companies don't.But the vast majority of users are not interested in the freedom to rewrite their own software.They may be interested sometimes in understanding some of the software they use. I don't expect everyone to learn to be an expert programmer, but nobody should be excluded from learning to work on the software that they use. In other words, there shouldn't be a priesthood of technology.What are you programming at the moment?I no longer do programming. Working on the political and management sides of the movement is all I can do. Programming is more fun, but the only way I can do it now is by neglecting the more pressing responsibilitiesYou've become involved with campaigning against the RIP (Regulation of Investigatory Powers) bill in the UK. Isn't that a distraction?The freedom to share and change software is not the only important freedom in life. The presumption of innocence, the freedom to tell people about what the police are doing to you - those are even more important. I'm glad I have a chance to help preserve those freedoms in Britain.What do you think you'll be remembered for?I think that the memories of me will say that I helped develop some tools that are part of Linux.
Your heart rate soars, you experience feelings of extreme aggression and bloodlust. Victory is a headrush of violent power; defeat an emasculation. You can't wait to do it again. Sometimes you even dream about it.But no one wants to ban chess. Yet when such visceral emotions are associated with video games, people get very worried. Stands to reason, doesn't it? If you love blowing the heads off realistically animated digital people, or even, as in the fabulously violent new Soldier of Fortune, keeping track of kneecappings versus headshots and groin wounds, you're going to grow up into an extremely ill-balanced individual. Some time, you'll probably get hold of a real gun and shoot all your friends.That's what they said about Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, the two gunmen behind the Columbine High School massacre last year. They were known to be obsessive players of Doom, a 3-D game in which you must defend Mars from aliens with a massive shotgun. Clearly, the video games turned them into killers, no? Best keep the kids away from the PlayStation or PC and teach them knitting instead.Now, apparently, we have new evidence that video games really do make you a more violent person. At least that's the way the newspapers reported it on Monday. "Computer-game thugs: on-screen violence is transferred to real life," screeched the Daily Mail. "Computer games make children far more likely to commit violent crime and to fail at school. A leading expert in the field has warned that there is now clear evidence that youngsters can be prompted to act violently by spending time on the computer."Well, that would be news. For decades now, scientists have tried to prove that video games are bad for your children. But there has never been any proof. And, if you look beyond the hysteria, there still isn't. Not a shred. Nada. Zip.The report, Video Games and Aggressive Thoughts, Feelings and Behaviour in the Laboratory and in Life, by Craig A Anderson and Karen E Dill, appears in the April issue of the American Psychological Association's Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. It consists of two separate experiments performed on psychology undergraduates at Iowa State University. The first experiment is merely a set of interviews with the students and decides that "aggressive delinquent behaviour" (fighting, mugging) is positively correlated with "exposure to videogame violence", and also that low academic performance is correlated with a longer amount of time spent playing video games in general.We can deal with the second point straight away. Of course if you spend six hours a day playing video games your school grades will suffer. They'll also suffer if you spend six hours a day baking cookies, hugging trees or doing anything else except your homework. Next!The other finding crumbles when confronted with the crucial scientific slogan: Correlation Ain't Causation.   There is no evidence that the games cause real-life violence. To their credit, the authors of the article acknowledge this: "It could be that the obtained video game links to aggressive and non-aggressive delinquency are wholly due to the fact that highly aggressive individuals are especially attracted to violent video games." In other words, violent kids are more likely to play violent games. Well, duh, of course they are. And they're more likely to steal your lunchbox. But lunchboxes don't cause crime.The second experiment is more interesting. One group of students    played the violent Wolfenstein 3-D (in which you shoot Nazis) for 15 minutes, the other played the tedious Myst (in which you look at pretty pictures and solve dull puzzles). (By the way, Anderson claims that Myst "shares the 3-D 'walk through' format" of Wolfenstein. It doesn't.) Then the students were told to play a game of quick reactions against a human in another cubicle. After a round, they could "punish" their opponent (who was actually just a computer) with a blast of noise. The people who had just been playing Wolfenstein punished their enemies with longer blasts of noise than the   Myst players. Conclusion: a violent game makes you more aggressive.But the noise increase was tiny. The Wolfensteiners averaged a 6.81-second blast; the Mysters a 6.65-second blast. And this difference appeared only when the participants had just lost a round of the reflex game. You'd see the same thing after making someone play a game of squash or chess and comparing them with a couch-potato's responses. And we have only the author's own pet theory, their "General Affective Aggression Model", as evidence that such a minuscule short-term effect might translate into long-term violence.In fact, the article unwittingly furnishes evidence for the opposite argument, the "catharsis hypothesis". Several other studies in the last decade have argued that playing violent games is actually a healthy release for natural feelings of aggression: a safe way to exercise them without harming real people. This is the view shared by nearly all gameplayers and industry types, not to mention the New York Police Department, who told the producer of the notorious joyriding-and-cop-shooting game Grand Theft Auto: "We'd rather they did it in your game than on the street."The crux comes when the psychologists notice that women were more hostile than men after playing both games, delivering longer blasts of noise. In fact, when the participant had just won a round of the reflex game, this gender difference was the only one observed: it had nothing to do with whether they'd been playing Wolfenstein or Myst. The authors are bemused, and suspect it's because the women in their study were generally "less familiar with videogames".But this implies either that the catharsis hypothesis is true, or that what the experiment was measuring wasn't aggression at all. Either the men delivered shorter noise blasts because they regularly used games as a vent for their natural aggression and so were more chilled-out, or the experiment was measuring frustration (because the women weren't as good at either game) rather than violent tendencies.In conclusion, the authors again have to admit to having "no empirical evidence" that games increase violent behaviour. They even sulkily acknowledge the many competing views: one 1997 study argues that video games increase children's IQ, others claim further evidence for the catharsis hypothesis or point out that the communal activities of video game hint-swapping among children aid socialisation.Playing games isn't going to make you want to practise violence in real life. The skills aren't the same anyway. If I want to beat someone up, I can hardly use my Doom skills on them, because whacking them over the head with a mouse isn't going to hurt much. I'd be better off studying karate. And people who can't tell the difference between video game fiction and real life, like Harris and Klebold, are psychopaths, and they might equally be set off by a film, or a heavy-metal record played backwards. There's no accounting for nutters.Video game enthusiasts should thank Anderson and Dill. They tried to prove that videogames are bad for you; but they ended up showing that they might make you a more relaxed human being. Thank goodness for that. Now, I'm feeling tense, frustrated and aggressive after all this irresponsible and inaccurate reporting, so if you'll excuse me, I'm off to fight someone to death with an enormous axe.&#149; Steven Poole's Trigger Happy: The Inner Life of Videogames (Fourth Estate, £12) is out on May 18.
Ireland's booming economy is about to propel another fast-growing hi-tech firm on to the London stock market.Silicon Systems, a Dublin-based intellectual property chip design company, plans to float on the London and Nasdaq stock exchanges with an expected value of around $700m (&#163;443m).A company statement said the exact timing of the flotation "will depend on specific market conditions and corporate factors".Silicon, which is changing its name to Parthus Technologies, hopes to follow the success of fellow Irish firm Baltimore Technologies, which was one of the star performers on the London market last year and recently joined the main FTSE 100 index.Silicon's co-founders Brian Long and Peter Mcmanamon are likely to see their shareholdings valued at several hundred million dollars. Other major shareholders include ST Microelectronics and Goldman Sachs, the float's co-ordinator, which owns 23%.Silicon develops product platforms for wireless technology devices and licenses its designs to a range of component manufacturers.The company's clients include Texas Instruments, ST Microelectronics and Creative Labs. It also has a licensing agreement with microchip designer ARM Holdings, whose technology is used in three quarters of mobile phones worldwide.Mr Long set up Silicon in 1993, initially as contract developer of silicon intellectual property for large semiconductor manufacturers such as ST Microelectronics. Between 1993 and 1998 the company made a profit.In 1998 Silicon took in Goldman Sachs as an investor and decided to invest heavily in research and development.Last year its revenues, largely from licences, were $19m but it recorded an undisclosed loss.Silicon is expected to raise around $100m from the flotation to finance research and development, acquisitions and sales and marketing expenditure.
One of the most common complaints among internet entrepreneurs is that despite working 20-hour days and sacrificing their social lives they risk all their savings, are poorly paid and have no way of realising the value of shares that may - or may not - one day be worth a fortune.Even when their companies   go public there are usually "lock-in" periods which prevent founders and top executives from selling their shares.But now the impoverished entrepreneurs are being offered a way of getting hold of some dot.com wealth before their own companies float on the stock market or are bought out.A San Francisco-based start-up,eFounders, has devised a   scheme that allows net entrepreneurs to benefit from each other's success.It wants them to place between 5% and 10% of their personal equity in a fund along with 11 other entrepreneurs who are running companies of similar strength and valuation and chances of going public.Each time one of the partners' firms goes public, is bought or merges, everyone in   the partnership benefits immediately. It also diversifies their investment portfolio and increases liquidity."The perception about Silicon Valley is that the huge equity positions held by founders in their own start-ups translate into an immediate cash position for these individuals at the initial public offering -when in fact the opposite is often true," said Bashir Wada,   managing director of eFounders. "Company founders can sometimes wait years to benefit from the stock they hold in their own companies; eFounders was created to provide and innovative means for founders to invest and diversify their personal equity, and seek out financial products and services that have been unavailable until now."Mr Wada's company plans to   offer a range of personal finance products and services to entrepreneurs signing up to the scheme, and eFounders plans to take take 20% of profits after initial return of capital.Mr Wada said that an experimental fund that was set up 18 months ago, Entrepreneurs Diversification Fund 1, was so successful that it was subsequently established as a separate company.Analysts believe that the business model could translate to the UK and be of use to networking groups such as First Tuesday.Media investment specialist Durlacher is already working on plans to offer a personal finance service to entrepreneurs working in hi-tech industries who do not have the time, or often the experience, to look after their finances.
US technology stocks suffered a day of heavy losses yesterday in response to disappointing earnings growth by Microsoft and reports that the government is leaning towards a breakup of the software group.The Nasdaq composite index fell 208.43 points, or 5.72%, to 3,434.47 in late morning trading as the gloom about Microsoft's prospects spread across the rest of the technology sector.Intel, the world's largest chip manufacturer, was among the early fallers, losing $2.06 to $113.31 by mid-afternoon. Cisco Systems, which provides much of the hardware that manages data flow across the internet, fell 3 to 62.Sun Microsystems, one of the big players in the server market, was also on the slide, along with the cellular phone equipment maker Qualcomm, Yahoo!, the online auctioneer eBay and Amazon.com, the internet retailer, which dipped 4 1/16  to 47 11/16.But Microsoft's difficulties - which were the trigger a few weeks ago for one of Wall Street's worst falls on record - failed to spread to the rest of the market, with the blue chip Dow Jones industrial average registering little change.After the three-day Easter holiday it was the first day of trading since Thursday night's warning by the company that business demand for PCs was waning. The share price was marked down from the outset in New York.The damage was compounded by reports that the courts may order the break-up of the Microsoft group for violating anti-trust laws. Sources close to the case said the government would propose splitting it into two, separating its Office software from the Windows operating system."There is a feeling that if Microsoft's growth rate is going to be lower then the stock warrants a lower valuation," said Harvey Hirshhorn, chief economist and investment strategist at fund manager Stein Roe and Farnham."You also have near term concern about corporate PC growth and you are getting downgrades and talk that the federal government may be pressing to break it up."Yesterday's losses in the technology sector came at the start of what is likely to be a volatile week for trading, with a plethora of economic data due to be released which could influence share valuations.Today there will be consumer confidence and homes sales data for the market to digest. Tomorrow brings the latest durable goods orders and on Thursday the government will publish key output and employment costs figures.Economists say tame wage pressures would help to sooth angst at the US Federal Reserve over March's higher than expected inflation data but are unlikely to prevent further rate rises.The next Fed meeting on May 16 will probably result in a quarter-point increase, although some analysts fear a half-point rise to guard against the risks of overheating.
Global personal computer sales have failed to show the acceleration expected once millennium bug problems were out of the way. Figures from Dataquest, part of the Gartner information group, show that first-quarter PC shipments rose by 15%.This compares to industry estimates of growth between 17% and 19% made during the last quarter of last year.Customers had been expected to postpone their PC purchases until after the turn of the year, when Y2K software problems had been resolved.However, fresh worries have begun to unsettle the PC market, with consumers wondering whether new mobile phone or television email services will meet their needs. Others have decided to wait until the new Microsoft 2000 operating system has proved itself before buying.Two weeks ago a leading US broker warned that the slowdown in PC sales would hit Microsoft's revenues this year.The reduction in the PC sales growth rate could make some of the forecasts for the volume of internet shopping begin to look a little suspect.The Dataquest figures show that Compaq has managed to maintain its position as market leader ahead of Dell.Compaq's first-quarter sales rose 11.4% to 3.75m units, giving it 12.5% of the world market.Dell's PC sales rose 10% to 3m, giving it 10% of the market. The company, run by the billionaire Michael Dell, is   closing the gap on Compaq, mainly on internet sales.Compaq only recently committed itself to large-scale selling over the internet while Dell is widely regarded as having the most sophisticated web-based sales strategy and highest ratio of net sales among its main rivals.The two leaders were followed by Hewlett-Packard, IBM and NEC - with 8%, 5.9% and 4.8% of the PC market respectively.Sluggish PC sales in Europe and the US were offset by rapid growth in Latin America, Asia and Japan.Charles Smulders, PC analyst at Dataquest, said: "The Asia-Pacific region continues to recover economically - and with it, demand for technology is strengthening."He said the industry needed   to produce a new generation of more powerful, stylish machines to persuade businesses and consumers to replace their personal computers more frequently."The industry faces the challenge of finding a way to persuade existing users to replace their PCs every two to three years instead of every four to five years," he added.The Dataquest survey showed that years of declining prices for home PCs in the US had been checked by industry consolidation after IBM and Packard-Bell decided to pull out of the retail market for these.However computer manufacturers are trying to increase the size of the overall market by offering low price entry-level machines equipped to access the internet.
The golden age of the internet start-up might already be over. Durlacher, one of the most prolific venture capital companies to foster the growth of the British online sector, has decided to pull back from future investments in business-to-consumer websites.David Pannell, a senior consultant with the company, yesterday said the market had become more "realistic" about potential rewards from conventional websites relying on e-commerce and advertising.The venture capital company has made only one investment in a consumer-based business since the end of last year - a pop music website set   up by the Spice Girls' former guru, Simon Fuller."We stopped investing in that kind of business around Christmas unless it is a very compelling proposition," Mr Pannell said."Lastminute.comdemonstrated the top of the boom. E-tailing was at its peak about four months ago and there was a lot of money pouring in on the assumption that there would be a significant shift in sales from the high street to the online environment."There are now very few being launched, and most of those around will go out of business or get bought."Take-up has not been as rapid as people thought, and the cost of acquiring customers is extremely high."The market, he added, was suffering from chronic oversupply after the slew of start-ups last year which fuelled the internet boom.More recent Durlacher investments are focused on underlying technology which allows existing bricks-and-mortar firms to go online.The shift was demonstrated yesterday by a &#163;300,000 injection in online security business Datamark in return for 5% of the company's equity."A few months ago we would say as long as you can get advertising then we can worry about other sources of revenue later on. Now we want a clear source of revenue."Durlacher's better known investments have included 365 Corporation, the sports content and websites business, and Autonomy, the software company run by Mike Lynch which has been a phenomenal stock market success.Durlacher also has stakes in software company Zeus Technology, online CD retailer Boxman and Online Travel, which are all understood to be planning flotation.Mr Pannell said there was still a wealth of investment opportunities. "The economy is shifting, perhaps not as fast some people had thought, and there will be hiccups."But the excitement is still there because the internet is one of the few areas where innovative small start-ups can grow very quickly and very profitably. That wouldn't happen in the steel sector."
High street banks would never make their customers queue for six days in one of their branches, yet according to new research this is precisely what many financial firms expect of customers trying to bank over the internet.At a time when many banks are closing branches and trying to lure customers into cyberspace instead, the research shows that 61% of companies may be failing to meet customer expectations.The research was commissioned by Microsoft and Onyx, an e-business software house.Samia Rauf, marketing director at Onyx, said that "mystery shopping" of 126 financial firms also showed that many responses consisted of standard information rather than personal replies."These results do not speak of an industry preparing itself for revolution."Nor do they speak of an industry that knows how to sell to its customers," says the report's author, Paul Gant, from management consultancy Market Elan.The researchers tried to contact 126 financial firms, including the major high street banks, investment banks and building societies, between January and March over the internet. They found that 31% did not have a website or had one which did not allow them to submit an electronic request for information.Of those to which a request could be made, 26% failed to respond at all, while a further 17% took six days or longer to reply.Of the companies which did reply to the request for information, 80% of them did not   bother to follow up the "mystery shopper" - by telephoning, for instance.Ms Rauf said she was surprised by the research. "If you go into a bank branch you are not going to stand there for six days waiting for someone to deal with you," she said.She said the internet, through which customers could fire off requests for information about products from hundreds of firms, was all about speed. "It's a race for which of the firms responds first," she said.Ms Rauf suggested that one of the reasons the firms appeared so badly equipped might be a breakdown in communication within their organisation: for instance the marketing department may have set up the website but not consulted with the IT department properly about how to best use it.
What do you drive?A 1971 Mercedes 300 SEL.What does that say about you?That I'm a bit of a show off.What do you like about it?I love the sound of the V8 engine bubbling away, but the column gear change can be a bit fiddly at times.Why did you buy it?I saw an advert on the internet about chauffeur driven classic Mercs and thought it would be fun to be driven around town before a gig. Then I saw one of the cars was actually for sale and I couldn't resist it.What kind of driver are you?I'm an undercover cabbie - I like taking the sneaky back roads.Any bad habits?As a passenger giving directions I constantly confuse left and right. It's enough to drive my husband insane.Any driving test tales?I failed first time, need I say more?What was your first car?A 1972 Mercedes 200D, which cost &#163;140. You can see I got into the habit early. It was a great old banger that needed two batteries to get going in the morning. I used to call it "the whale" because the steering wheel made these funny noises - and if you broke down you were literally beached.Have you experienced road rage?Yes, every time I see a black cab.What's in the boot?Old newspapers that I keep meaning to take to the recycling station.Have you ever had sex in a car?When visiting my now-husband-then-boyfriend in New Zealand, he picked me up from the airport in an "ute" - a utility van. I thought it was hardly ideal for romantic encounters, but as it turns out I couldn't have been more mistaken.What music do you listen to on the road?At the moment I'm listening to a   tape fellow Baebe Rachel has compiled for my birthday. My favourite tunes on it are by Death in Vegas and Chris Cornell.What would be your dream car?A 1950s Mercedes gullwing.Who would be your dream passenger?Sam Mendes, I love his plays at the Donmar Warehouse and apart from that an Oscar would go so well with my car.
It looks like a mobile home, doesn't even come with metallic paint and costs &#163;1m. But Ford's new Iveco truck (RAV - the Road Assessment Vehicle) has the kind of technology James Bond would die for - and looks set to put quite a few motorway cones out of a job.You want laser guns? This has 22. You want to liaise with HQ via a satellite in space? A GPS link ensures that the RAV's whereabouts are pinpointed down to the last inch.The plan is that the RAV truck will spend the next five years trundling its way around 6,500 miles of England's motorways and trunk roads, looking for cracks,    fissures and things that go bump when they shouldn't. And on the motorway, the RAV can sail along at 70mph, yet still work like a forensic scientist - downloading data from its barrage of lasers and cameras and picking up   cracks as small as two millimetres. It can even do its job in the dark.And while all this information is being collected, the RAV's satellite global positioning system is linked up to pinpoint the exact position of the road defects, so there's no need for the vehicle to keep stopping and marking the side of the road where the tarmac is kaput.Colin Curry, the RAV driver, arguably now has more power than anyone to reduce road delays. He's proud of his wheels, but not entirely sure they'll guarantee on-road happiness: "I'm very much aware of the value of what I'm driving - particularly when going   down a narrow local road. You might say I use a bit more caution than the local road users."On the motorway though, it doesn't really matter how slow or fast you're going - drivers will always try to get past you. They all want to be there yesterday, delay or no delay."
It all goes really well until the dispatch rider asks me if I got it from Fisher-Price. Cheeky bugger. And no, it's not mine. I'm just trying it out for the afternoon, OK?I end up telling a lot of people it isn't mine. Dispatch riders are the worst - they look at it with utter contempt. And the fashionable people of London's fashionable Hoxton aren't great either. I take a spin through the area, it being the place to be right now, and me being on - or should that be "in"? - what I had naively imagined was something to be seen on/in. But they look away, embarrassed, or openly pity me.Others are more charitable. A boy in the back of a people carrier gives me the thumbs up. Some Italian tourists on top of an open topped tour bus video me. A man selling the Big Issue in King's Cross looks genuinely delighted by the spectacle and shouts "Wicked, man".It's the C1, the world's first   bike/car hybrid according to the people at BMW. I don't know about that; it has two wheels right? That, in my book, makes it a bike; cars have four wheels. The C1 is a scooter with a roof - presumably to protect the driver from rocks hurled by disdainful dispatch riders, or Longbridge sympathisers when they spot the little blue and white BMW symbol.But what's this? Seatbelts; that's not very scootery. Plus a windscreen wiper? And the basic model costs &#163;3,945 - hardly scooter money. On the other hand, it doesn't exactly have the people carrying capabilities of a car; you're not supposed to carry   someone on the back so there's only room for one - that's exactly half the number of people as my Vespa carries. This is getting confusing. Maybe the people at BMW were right.Whatever, I set off from the office in Covent Garden (they've handed over the marketing side of things to a posh PR company for the C1 - we could be talking "lifestyle" product here), do a couple of laps of Trafalgar square and head off up the Mall.It takes a while to get used to the C1. Everything works well, the brakes are brilliant, but it's quite different to driving a scooter. For a start the centre of gravity is a bit higher so it feels wobblier and on this particular day there's a wicked April gale blowing through London, especially over Waterloo bridge, and I'm being buffeted all over the place. It's also less manoeuvrable so you can't weave like you can on a scooter or small bike. And the extra weight means it's not so quick away from the lights as a 125cc scooter.When it comes to parking up, the two-lever stand lowering system, though clever, is perhaps a little over- complicated. And you can't squeeze a C1 into the same tiny gaps in bike parks as you can with a scooter. (Crap name too - have they forgotten the C5, Clive Sinclair's ill-fated experiment?).There are two major pluses though. When an April shower hits you don't get wet (at least not from above). And you feel reasonably safe, much less vulnerable and exposed than on a scooter. The driver is strapped in between shoulder height protective bars, there's an impact absorbing front mudguard and, of course, that rigid aluminium roll-over cage. In a safety video, a crash test dummy comes out a lot better after driving his C1 into a car than doing the same with a conventional bike. This has got to be the main selling point of the thing. In most European countries you don't have to   wear a helmet in a C1. Here you do, but that might change.So would I trade in my Vespa for a C1? I don't think so. Longbridge aside, I think four grand is too much to pay for something with only two wheels and a125cc engine. (The executive model - with mobile phone holder and reading light is &#163;4470, but I never find much time for reading on my bike.) Although the C1 is a very clever design and clearly the future and all that, I have a slight problem with the way it looks. It may have been that Fisher-Price comment that did it.But if I was someone who drove a car to work, and wanted to get there a bit quicker, but was scared to get on a bike, I might think about one. So long as the route to work didn't go through Hoxton.
What does your car smell of? Cheap plastic? Wet dog? Last night's burger? After a few weeks every car takes on the distinctive whiff of its owner and even new cars have a particular smell - but not if you buy an Audi. An Audi should smell of nothing all at.Heiko Luessmann-Gieger is chief sniffer at Audi's offices in Ingolstadt near Munich. He leads a team of scientists who smell everything that goes into the interior of a new car. "We are aiming for complete neutrality. The perfect car should smell of nothing discernible at all," he says.In the past, car manufacturers concentrated on the look and feel of their models - the styling, the engine sound, the grip of the steering wheel. Mercedes, for example, employs paint doctors who rub their gloved hands all over the body work looking for blemishes. Ford has an acoustic centre in Cologne that aims to create the perfect "swish" for the windscreen wipers and Nissan uses an "automatic mechanical bottom" - a pair of jean-clad prosthetic legs that sits up and down on a car seat 15,000 times, to ensure that the fabric is durable.But now manufacturers have to go even further. "It's about creating a total brand experience," says Ralph Ardill, marketing director of branding experts, Imagination. "Cars have to appeal to all the senses so companies are having to think about what their product smells like and how that reflects the brand's values."Second-hand car dealers know the value of a good smelling motor and invest in scented sprays to produce an "authentic" leather smell. And in Japan, Nissan is experimenting with scents that are intended to make you a better driver. It has developed a concept car that contains a camera focused on the drivers eyelids. "If it spots your eyelids drooping then the car will emit a peppermint spray   scent which is designed to pep you up and stimulate you," explains Nissan's spokesman Frank Shepherd.But Luessmann-Gieger says that adding scents to cars is a bad idea. "You can't add smells to cars because consumers might not like them and even if they did like the scent they might complain when it faded."His team carries out a whole range of tests to get the neutral scent they are seeking. "We sell to over 100 countries so we have to make sure that the glues and plastics don't smell terrible in really hot climates. We also leave materials underwater for three days to see what they smell like when they are wet."So how do you sniff an Audi? Luessmann-Gieger and his nose   team collect samples of materials from all Audi's suppliers and store them in airtight jars. "We get together and each take a sniff from the jars and then award it marks out of six - from one for no smell to six for unbearable," he explains.The team, which claims that it can identify the smell of every part of an Audi's interior blindfold, knows which chemicals give off unpleasant odours. "If something smells of bitter almonds for example, I know why and I can go back to the manufacturer and suggest they modify the materials to get rid of it," Luessmann-Gieger says.The scientists have training sessions with perfumiers to improve their sniffing skills, but some are inevitably more suited to it than others. "Some people just have more sensitive noses than others. We have people who really like particular scents such as leather or PVC and so they tend to concentrate on those areas," he says.But dedicated PVC sniffers have to make certain sacrifices for their art. They can't smoke, must have high standards of personal hygiene but can't use heavily scented shampoos or deodorants and they mustn't wear aftershave or perfume. Perhaps most trying of all, they have to watch what they eat. "You can't eat garlic, and kebabs are banned because they not only affect your sensitivity, but also that of the people around you," Luessmann-Gieger says.So is it worth the effort given that within a few weeks owners will stamp their own odour on their Audi? "Absolutely" says Luessmann-Gieger. "If a new car has an unpleasant or intense smell, customers might not buy it in the first place."
Down in neatest Hampshire, just off junction 10 of the M27, where the plush coastal farms meet the executive homes of Fareham, there stands a shrine to the millennium bug.It is a tall medieval barn, in dark brick and black timber, that has been refurbished and occupied by a computer software company. Greenwich Mean Time seems to have done well for itself: it has a car park full of sports cars and, inside, clocks telling the time in Tokyo and Johannesburg. In the company loos, there are brass-effect holders for the toilet roll.Three years ago, Greenwich Mean Time began selling a &#163;20 box of software called Check 2000. "In less than the time it takes to drink your coffee," its packaging promised,   "Check 2000 flags and fixes year 2000 PC problems." It sold over 4 m copies. Versions were distributed in English, French, Italian, Spanish, German, Japanese, and Afrikaans. "We ended up selling more year 2000 checking tools," says Karl Feilder, the firm's founder, in the kind of exaggeratedly calm voice men use when showing off, "than anybody else in the world."His barn is still full of bug memorabilia. There are newspaper warnings pinned to the walls, Check 2000 posters in the porch, Check 2000 boxes balanced on the office partitions, even scratched Check 2000 discs in service as coffee mats. A prediction from Feilder, given to a Canadian magazine in June 1999, still looms over the visitors' sofas: "In the first couple of days of January 2000, not much is going to happen, and probably the media will write stories about how it was all a hoax. But you'll get this cumulative data error. There certainly will be some companies that go broke, people will be redundant and inevitably some people will die."Feilder, who is in his mid-30s and   wears boots and jeans to work and looks a little like a chunkier, less uptight Michael Portillo, is still sticking to most of this. "There have been a lot of incidents," he says, "but the press have totally lost interest." Besides, he continues, "If those millions of people hadn't checked their PCs, there would have been serious problems." He leans back on one of the squashy sofas in his attic office, arms thrown out contentedly, the barn's roof beams behind him, his employees tapping at their keyboards below. At the end of last year, he says, he was so confident about his company's millennium medicine that he gave the whole Greenwich Mean Time staff 10 days off, and diverted all calls to his mobile phone. He only got 15: "none of them disastrous".Since January, though, as the weeks have slipped undramatically by, Feilder and his fellow bug experts, many of them both entrepreneurs and advisors to governments, have lost some of their lustre. Their activities have begun to look rather contradictory and self-interested.First, in the lead-up to 2000, they anticipated worldwide computer chaos, declaring that the new date would baffle the machines, and agreed to speculate on the consequences, in melodramatic detail, for the world's media. Next, they insisted loudly that heavy spending on software and technicians was the only way to avert a catastrophe. Then, as 2000 began, and planes failed to plunge from the sky, they maintained that the crisis had been real, but solved. And now, deep into the year, they are pre dicting that problems may continue after all, and that further vigilance and spending could be needed. Early this month, on the evening after the Stock Exchange's computers had collapsed, Feilder phoned me. "Has anyone asked the question about the millennium bug?", he said.All this makes Anthony Finkelstein furious. He is professor of software systems engineering at University College London, and perhaps the leading millennium bug sceptic. He speaks with some vigour for an academic: "Being a prophet of doom is a low-risk occupation," he says. "If things go wrong, you are a prophet. If nothing happens, it's because you warned people... &#91;But&#93; the notion that panic is good for people - it's unprofessional. It's patronising. It's contemptible."In truth, there have been bug incidents. The office for national statistics (ONS) counted 74 British companies, or 7% of its sample, with millennium problems in the first week of January. By the first week of February, 14 firms were still suffering. A weather centre in Aberdeen, a tide gauge in Portsmouth, the payroll of the German Opera - there have been enough odd glitches to fill a few newspaper round-ups. British manufacturing output unexpectedly fell by 0.4% in January, against the trend of recent months. And last December, amid a small shower of pre-millennial computer surprises, a "1900 bug" made an appearance as well. When Bedfordshire social services tried to track down any 100-year-olds in their care, their newly millennium-  compatible computers refused to recognise the relevant date of birth.None of this, however, adds up to global recession, or infrastructure collapse, or accidental nuclear war, as the most heated prophets were anticipating. The ONS has stopped its bug watch, weeks earlier than planned. Action 2000, the Government's millennium-alert agency, has been run down. They barely answer their phones now, and sound awkward when you ask what they still do. The bug has faded to an embarrassing period catchphrase.Yet countering it, imaginary or otherwise, cost the British government &#163;396m. The world spent between &#163;150bn and &#163;500bn - the variation between all the estimates seems itself to suggest out-of-control budgets. So do the vastly greater sums committed in Britain and Japan and the United States, probably the three countries most entranced by the power of computers, than in equally modern and complex societies such as Italy and France. The Italians and French have not suffered greater problems as a result.Robin Guenier may be faintly dreading the day. He is a crisp pinstriped man of 63, with careers in computing, aerospace and law behind him, who, from the mid-90s until this January, was probably Britain's noisiest bug alarmist. These days, he plays it down: "It all seems a long time ago," he says, wearily waving his glasses and looking into the middle distance. "I think it's a very boring subject."In 1997, he felt differently. "I do   not want to seem irrational or a prophet of doom," he told the Mail on Sunday that January, "but there is a possibility of riots." He says now that the papers deliberately played up his every hypothetical: "A warning can easily be turned into a prediction_ There were people who were determined to make me into a doom-monger." But then he adds, "If I'd gone around saying, 'We'll probably get through this,' no one would have printed anything."In fact, attention-seeking infected discussion of the bug from the very beginning. The first widely publicized article about millennium computer anxieties was published by ComputerWorld magazine in 1993. "Doomsday 2000" was by a Canadian called Peter de Jager, who has since diversified into bug videos, bug lectures and a bug cartoon book. "Have you ever been in a car accident?", read his opening sentence.From there, the fears spread and multiplied. The first British newspaper story was in early 1996; in 1997, there were more than 300; in 1998, more than 2,500. The salaries of computer staff escalated over the same period: by an average of 6% in 1996 and 8% in 1997, according to the National Computing Centre, much steeper rises than earlier in the Nineties.During the middle of that decade, Guenier had a grey-sounding job reorganising national computing policy for John Major's cabinet office. In early 1996, one of Guenier's subordinates came to him with an exotic-sounding warning. The millennium   bug "sounded plausible": Guenier went to America to find out more, and returned as a memo-despatching foreteller of calamity. Very quickly, he says, "The Government regarded me as a guru." How did he actually convince them? He gives a mischevious look. "If you know a bit more about something than anyone else, and you speak with confidence_"Feilder became interested in the millennium in 1996 too. He was living in South Africa, on the proceeds of a company he had sold to Microsoft the year before, riding motorbikes and trying to be a rock singer. He was bored. He knew from years as a programmer that a lot of computer products were "poor quality" - rushed into use and flawed. "There was bound to be a problem in the year 2000," he says now, smiling on his office sofa, as if it was the most obvious thing in the world. "It was just a question of finding it." That done, he devised "a desktop management product wrapped in the millennium bug" - Check 2000 - and prepared for all the attention.He had media coaching. He bought memorable suits. And as his software became an international success, he "volunteered my services" to the governments of the countries it sold in. A virtuous circle, shared with Guenier (they are on first-name terms) was set in motion: official briefings, conference speeches, appearances in the press, dark predictions, invitations from everyone to come back again and answer any allegations of exaggeration. Both of them deny personal motives: Feilder maintains he kept advice and commerce separate; Guenier says that"the reason I got involved was that hundreds of thousands of ordinary people could have been affected". Yet their eyes glow when they remember all the meetings.Finkelstein does not criticise individuals. Instead, he sees the bug panic as a symptom of our immaturity about technology generally. Businesses and the public are increasingly dependent on computers, but still understand little, he says, about how they work. Computer technicians everywhere are busily "empire building", and the bug gave them further justification - plus an ideal   cover for any existing problems they had left unsolved. Meanwhile the government, under Major and Tony Blair, applied the lessons of unrelated past panics: "They'd been so badly bitten by mad cow," says Finkelstein, "that they decided that the political risk of over-reaction &#91;to the bug&#93; was less than the risk of under-reaction." And finally, the media saw in the millennium an absolutely delicious opportunity: "The bug wrote itself. It had technology. It had disaster. It had a time horizon. The year 2000 story was too good to check."There have been some benefits. The Government, the likes of Guenier, and even Finkelstein, all agree that a certain amount of "spring cleaning" has been performed on the computer systems of the world. Perhaps a useful period of hostility towards silicon chips and self-confident computer experts has passed too. A culture of improvisation and exaggeration, however vigorous and growing in importance, has been exposed to plain view.Down in Hampshire, Feilder is pondering a move out of computing. Greenwich Mean Time has new, non-millennial software to sell, but its staff is down to 50 from a peak of twice that during the bug countdown. On plane trips to its remaining overseas outposts, and in his attic office at weekends, Feilder wonders about going into the music business "like no one's done it before". He already has records by Deep Purple mounted on his walls. His press releases would make interesting reading.
Yaman Akdeniz is the founder and director ofCyber-Rights &amp; Cyber-Liberties (UK), a non-profit civil liberties organisation set up in January 1997.He gave evidence to a trade and industry select committee on electronic commerce at the House of Commons on March 9 1999, following Cyber-Rights &amp; Cyber-Liberties' memorandum to the committee in February 1999. He attended the OECD ministerial conference, Borderless World: Electronic Commerce, in Ottawa, Canada, in October 1998.Akdeniz studied law at Leeds university. After graduating, he started researching the legal implications of the internet and completed his thesis on the law regarding free speech and privacy on the net in November 1998. He is expected to finish his PhD thesis on European net governance in December 2000 at Leeds, where he has been teaching "cyberlaw", a course on IT, law and society.A list of publications written by Akdeniz is available throughCyber-Rights &amp; Cyber-Liberties (UK).
David Kerr was appointed as the first chief executive of the IWF in October 1996 to set up and run the organisation.He has a masters degree in business administration, experience of policy review and management consultancy in local government and has worked in the private sector in the aircraft industry and manufacturing. In recent years he has been involved in developing public-private partnerships addressing issues such as race relations and rural services.Kerr was appointed to IWF to implement an agreement between the UK internet industry, government and the police. He was responsible for developing one of the world's first hotlines for dealing with illegal net content with the support of the UK government, police and ISPs.He also played a leading role in specifying a UK rating system and in promoting the development of an internationally acceptable rating and filtering scheme. He has led theIncore projectcommissioned by the EU to make recommendations on the approach to rating and filtering from a European perspective which is reporting in mid-2000.The ICRA, a not-for-profit consortium of global net players, was set up to deliver an international rating system. Kerr has also participated in theexperts networkset up by the Bertelsmann Foundation to consider issues of self-regulation of internet content, which made recommendations to the Internet Content Summit in Munich in September 1999 and was jointly run by Incore.
This addresses fundamental issues for the future of the internet. The Internet Watch Foundation, IWF, is at the heart of the debate as it was set up by internet service providers, or ISPs, to help police criminal content - primarily child pornography - and avoid a threat to civil liberties.There are demonstrably workable means for government to police the internet but the means are very different from those used in older media: they should be through partnership and co-regulation with industry rather than authoritarian enforcement.The British government and law enforcement agencies were perhaps the first to realise they would achieve their objectives by working with ISPs. There is now an established pattern of public reporting of suspect content through a hotline, followed by a notice and take-down procedures to remove content regarded as illegal. The hotline has been used as a model in Europe, the United States and Australia.Labelling and filtering addresses the threat of content that is potentially harmful to children. E-commerce poses big problems but the size and economics of the market make willing partners of government, industry and law enforcement in the effort to provide safe trading.In each of the emerging areas of concern governments are increasingly obliged to rely on co-regulatory means of operation. The net's architecture allows individual users to choose how they use it. Most have an offshore option to avoid unreasonable restraints, so government policing in the forms suggested pose little threat to civil liberties.The greatest danger to civil liberties arises if governments do not learn how to achieve adequate regulation by new means and are panicked into imposing authoritarian measures. My conclusion contradicts the motion: there is a severe threat to civil liberties if governments do not find workable ways to police the internet.
The life of an online butcher is not an easy one. Jack Scaife in West Yorkshire sells ham, bacon, black puddings and homemade sausages over the internet. 
The company does not find it difficult to get the orders. The biggest challenge is fulfilling them. Thousands of individual packages of ham and bacon are regularly shipped to Europe, South Africa, Japan and sometimes even Peru."We have not found one courier service that completely lives up to its word," explains the company's managing director Chris Battle. "They need to be able to deliver in the evenings and they need to say when it will be delivered. You can't expect people to wait in all day for a parcel."The logistics of internet shopping are going to be big business. But the internet delivery firms should have got their act together yesterday."
This blunt message from Yorkshire's leading online butcher is echoed by many. E-fulfilment has moved right up the agenda and UK-based e-commerce companies know their long-term success depends on them meeting the high delivery expectations of their customers.Amazon is probably regarded as the outstanding practitioner of customer service: what can other e-commerce companies learn from it?"Many people fall short of their customers' expectations. We spend a lot of time with our delivery partners to make sure we meet customer promises," says Amazon.co.uk managing director, Steve Frazier, who sees efficient customer service as a competitive advantage.In a traditional retail model, fulfilment is always shared between the retailer and the customer. For  example, retailers arrange for mobile phones to be delivered from suppliers through a bulk distribution system so they can be displayed in a store. The customer completes the process by visiting the store, choosing a mobile, and taking it off the shelf.But in the new economy, the e-commerce company is responsible for everything from accepting the orders electronically, to packaging the products and ensuring they are delivered to the correct place on time.Given the complexities of this bigger role - and the fact that customers are unforgiving if you get it wrong - Amazon has not rushed into offering every product in the UK which is available from its US-based shop. Frazier explains: "We are aggressive about expanding into different categories in the UK but we take it one step at a time."For him it's more important to ensure that the customer service support and the delivery systems are in place and working efficiently. Above all he wants to ensure the company's customers always enjoy a "true Amazon experience".
Amazon is investing heavily in automated distribution centres to ensure customer service standards remain high and other dot.coms are sitting up and paying attention."Dot.coms realise that e-fulfilment is the one aspect of what they are doing which has the most impact on their brand," explains DHL Worldwide's e-commerce director, Etienne de Longvilliers.He argues that the e-fulfilment process begins even before online shoppers put any products in their shopping cart. Customers need detailed information about whether products are in stock, how long they will take to be delivered and exactly how much it will cost if a product is bought overseas."E-fulfilment still has a long way to go and companies like ours are working on solutions. What our industry needs to work on is helping e-traders to deliver a 'no surprise' service to customers."It is very easy to slag off an internet-based company when your shopping turns up late and the online supermarket has forgotten to include the pot of marmalade you specifically requested. But accurately and efficiently delivering products from a website to your door is far trickier than it seems."What e-customers don't see is all the logistics behind delivery which can be quite complex," explains Let'sBuyIt.com's UK and Ireland managing director, Peter Jaco. 
"People expect to be treated as individuals and they expect to be treated well. They want to save money through using the internet but they expect the service levels of the traditional retailer."For e-fulfilment to be highly efficient there needs to be seamless integration between the front-end of the website (the shop window, if you like) and the back-end (the product order process, and the fulfilment and delivery systems). Most internet companies choose to outsource their delivery services and Jaco, like many others, is clearly frustrated with what is available.
"We are a pan-European company and we don't have one single sophisticated pan-European logistics supplier. We need suppliers who can make sure there is a seamless integration with the computer systems of all leading dot.coms."Jaco argues that the challenge for dot.coms is to improve their entire customer service experience from the website to the man in the van'. He says: "I have had things delivered to my home and it's just been thrown onto the doorstep and then they drive off."
                 
Tensions are running high between dot.coms and their delivery companies. 
E-commerce directors tend to argue that suppliers are not flexible enough. Suppliers complain that internet companies do not always think through the implications of their advertising campaigns.Thousands of new hits on a website put acute short term pressure on delivery companies and the centres where the goods have to be quickly packed. But everyone in the emerging internet industry knows that a running dialogue with suppliers is essential if the situation is to improve.
 
"We are all still learning how to support the new ways of shopping," explains de Longvilliers, a touch wearily. "Everyone is designing solutions to provide the internet sites with systems that integrate information from every actor in the supply chain to give full visibility."In the UK, Amazon says it is currently happy with the services provided by the Royal Mail. But pressure is mounting on Parcelforce to introduce a precise time delivery service. And there are plenty of complaints, including some from Amazon, that many other UK-based delivery services still cannot provide the necessary electronic links so that online deliveries can be easily tracked. There are also concerns that the traditional delivery companies in this country are not geared up to manage peaks in e-business, particularly at Christmas time.Parcelforce Worldwide says it is investing heavily to meet the needs of the emerging new economy. At the moment it's piloting a precision delivery service with various retail companies in the UK so products can be delivered at specific times in keeping with the lifestyles of e-shoppers.The company is also pouring millions into a track and trace service so that internet companies can keep their customers up to date on the progress of their deliveries. 
Many UK-based dot.coms are signing up with several delivery companies, including local suppliers, to give themselves greater choice and flexibility.Overall there is no doubt that when e-fulfilment works efficiently it is hugely impressive. While apologists for the current state of affairs point out that it will be hard to find a 100% reliable solution to fulfilling online orders, there is plenty of scope for improvements across all countries. 
Fulfilling internet orders internationally is a minefield. Dot.coms who bravely try to deliver their products internationally find it hugely difficult to negotiate a quick and effective way through all the different post offices. 
E-commerce directors are also deterred by the complicated issues of taxes and duties, not least the fact that throughout the entire process they have to meet relentless customer demands for information and speedy deliveries."Many dot.coms say they are going into the UK or United States because it is easier to manage fulfilment within one country. The complexity of moving goods internationally definitely slows down international online trading. There are not many people who can do it well at the moment," explains de Longvilliers.
But he, and his team at DHL, are optimistic that the problems can be solved in the long term through the development of new systems, frank talking, fresh thinking and greater cooperation.In this rather messy, frustrating, and at times tetchy environment of 
e-fulfilment, some emerging web-based companies are positively thriving. There is a fast-growing online company in the US called Kozmo whose core proposition is that it can deliver "e-mmediately". With its headquarters in New York, Kozmo (www.kozmo.com) now operates in more than eight states, and it delivers videos, games, magazines and food from the internet to your door within an hour, using teams of couriers.In February, Kozmo struck a $150m deal with the coffee chain Starbucks for in-store exposure and co-marketing opportunities - and now it delivers coffee as part of its service. The company's site was recently revamped so breakfast-type products are offered for delivery in the morning and lunch ones at lunchtime, and so on.Kozmo is cleverly exploiting the backlash against internet companies who do not deliver the right products at the right time, and it is sending shockwaves through the online world. Kozmo wants to own the concept of e-fulfilment and all the positive PR which comes with delivering reliably and at precise times.
There is no doubt that many e-fulfilment problems are just as much company-specific as they are country-specific. Some traditional distribution companies need to reinvent themselves for the new economy, while poorly-performing dot.coms need to get their act together soon.Otherwise more opportunistic companies like Kozmo will emerge and start to really shake things up. This is probably what most online butchers would welcome.
A quivering sheep from cyberspace nerved itself yesterday to bite the mighty British Airports Authority in the flank.Baa.com, a small, rudimentary website ostensibly devoted to the love of fluffy animals, announced it will fight in court a writ from BAA.BAA is demanding that baa.com drops its domain name. The airports authority accuses it of infringing a registered trade mark or passing itself off as being "connected with" airport management."Let me get this right," Tom Bourke, one of baa's creators, said yesterday."BAA claims that a website dedicated to sheep and woolly resources has been passing itself off as a company that runs airports?"Mr Bourke, who lives in New Jersey, America, had been trying for months to steel himself for a David and Goliath contest in the high court after first hearing of BAA's objections."Who has the nerve to live on a knife edge?" he asked visitors to his site this month, before taking the decision.In starting baa.com in 1995, Mr Bourke felt he had spotted a gap in the market.While the web had "millions of pages devoted to people with no clothes on", it had nothing which "displayed many and varied pictures of woolly jumpers".So each of his pages begins with a picture of a sheep. BAA, however, suspects he is a cunning domain operator in sheep's clothing.Mr Bourke concedes on site that BAA plc applied for its trademark a few months before baa.com was registered. But, he says, they were "not in the same line of business".BAA offered him &#163;8,000 for the name. He reportedly asked for &#163;2m."My price wasn't astronomical and they could have negotiated," he says.BAA says: "They have made a demand which is beyond all recognition for the sale of our name."We put in a first figure and they came back with a totally unreasonable amount."
It is built around the same processor as the ZX Spectrum and can display only 56 colours, but the Nintendo Game Boy is outselling the market-leading Sony PlayStation. The  handheld console has sold more than 6 million units in its 10-year life and boasts an upcoming release list littered with big names such as Metal Gear Solid, Tomb Raider and Rainbow Six.Despite its weedy sound effects and basic visuals the Game Boy has always boasted some excellent software. Up until recently the puzzle game Tetris was synonymous with the console. Its deceptive simplicity and addictive gameplay helped shift the vast majority of original machines but a recent upgrade to colour has lead to more ambitious software.Cameron Sheppard, MD of Rainbow Six developers Crawfish, is impressed with what it can do. "It's an incredible machine; even though it's 10 years old it 
constantly amazes us how much it can do, which drives us to push it into doing stuff we never thought possible - 
in Rainbow Six, for instance, we've included motion capture."The biggest driver of 
hardware sales has been the Pokemon phenomenon. This collect-'n'-nurture game has bolstered the playground presence especially as two machines are needed in order to trade or battle the little monsters. Veteran developer Jon Hare, now based at Codemasters, agrees: "It is the perfect marketing gimmick for that age group, a lesson that Nintendo have long learned about children and character-based titles."It's not just Pokmon that has helped to boost sales. Retro conversions of old games are helping mine a rich seam of gaming nostalgia. Hare is keen. "The Game Boy Color offers a brilliant conversion platform for old 16-bit titles, something which is particularly good news for all our old Sensible Software hits that were originally mainly written on the Amiga. It is amazing to see Cannon Fodder on the Game Boy; it looks almost identical to the Amiga version."Big name franchises have appeared and the coming months will see titles like Tomb Raider and Metal Gear Solid coming over to the system. Although bearing little graphical comparison to their PlayStation versions, both titles are similar to play. MGS in particular offers a stealthy, sneaky gameplay style not seen before on the handheld. It also includes a multiplayer option - a growing area thanks to the Pokmon-inspired sales of the link cable.The reasons for the ageing console's continued success are varied. Sheppard feels it appeals to adults as well as children. "It's easy to mistake the Game Boy for a kid's toy but take a look around and you'll see adults of all ages taking it to work, on holiday and playing with it at home.  Its sheer ease of use and portability are key factors." 
He points to the large variety of titles available as evidence of a wider appeal. Hare likes the fact that you can "play Game Boys on your own" and "in a secret and out of the way place, as opposed to having to be by the telly where your Mum can catch you and tell you to go and finish your homework." 
Cheaper development costs also help. Despite the restrictions of cart production, the Game Boy can be a profitable place for developers.Hare agrees. "When you only need two programmers and one graphic artist it's got to be easier than the teams of 50+ that we are used to working with these days."Next year should see the release of the 16bit Game Boy Advance (Nintendo release dates are frustratingly vague). This successor to the Game Boy will be backwards compatible, allowing access to all the current titles, though, perhaps more interestingly, there is the possibility of online gaming and email through a mobile connection. 
It seems that the Game Boy could finally be growing up.
We are on the brink of the biggest information revolution for 5,000 years with a social and technological impact that will quite literally re-write the book. What is this great invention that will grip the nation? It is the electronic or e-book.The technology was thrown into the limelight recently when horror writer, Stephen King, decided to publish his latest novella, Riding the Bullet, exclusively on the internet, a decision that sent shock waves through the $70bn (£44.6bn) publishing industry. Within the first 24 hours of the promotion Barnes and Noble received more than 200,000 requests for the novella. That's the equivalent of selling 2.5 books per second.
 
Check out the Barnes and Noble library on the internet at www.bn.com and you will find a whole selection of them. On-screen there's little to distinguish them from the printed word but they are a lot harder to read on a computer display or liquid crystal display (LCD), hence King published a novella rather than a full-blown novel.BN has provided software designed to make the e-books easier to read: download the imaginatively titled e-book reader and the Glassbook reader from the site and install them for what the company claims is a paper-like display.You can also purchase a Rocket Book device to carry the e-books around.
Software mogul, Bill Gates, has already recognised the potential of the technology and Microsoft's researchers have produced similar software designed to give a paper-like quality to text on an electronic screen, called ClearType font-enhancing technology.The software was designed following a study of how letters and words appear on the printed page and attempts to recreate those images on-screen. "It fixes the problem of word recognition," says Scottish born Bill Hill, one of the co-inventors of ClearType, who hit upon the idea while animal tracking in America. "Animal tracking is a bit like reading. If you recognise the pattern it's easy. But if it isn't clear enough or sharp enough we have to work it out," he says.Hill believes that the impact of ClearType and technology like it will have as dramatic a social impact as the dawn of the first printing press. "The move towards screen readable information will change society just as much as the invention of the printing press but it will do it in five years rather than 500," he says.But even Hill will admit that there's a lot more to be done before we'll want to read an entire novel on-screen. "The book is a most complex technology. It is the most mature information interface that we have and in order to understand how it works we have to do a lot more."Others agree that the Rocket Book/ClearType approach is primitive. "Electronic books that you can buy right now such as the Rocket Book are still, from a technological point of view, using existing technology. It is basically just a laptop computer with a standard LCD display," says Pierre Wiltzius, technical manager for Lucent/Bell Labs.Is there an alternative? Imagine a substance that looks and feels like paper, with the qualities of a computer screen, allows you to download electronic content but which you can roll-up and put in your pocket. If you think it sounds like science fiction, think again - Xerox, the document company, believes it has come up with exactly that. What's more it won't even require a separate power source while you read it.The basis of this e-paper already exists in the company's Palo Alto Research Centre (Parc), ironically, the same outfit that brought us the laser printer, in the form of an electronic pulp called Gyricon. Gyricon is basically a thin sheet of plastic made up of millions of tiny beads, a bit like the toner particles found in traditional printers.The beads are double-sided, one black and one white. Each fits loosely into its own oil-filled cavity and still has the freedom to rotate. Electricity passed through the Gyricon causes the beads to rotate, showing either their black or white side in a series of patterns that form words and/or pictures.Only a small charge is needed to "print" on the paper. The researchers at Parc claim that it is possible to create a printer-type device to do the trick that would be small enough to fit into your wallet or purse. The company even has plans to weave further magic with its own design for an electronic "wand", a tube that acts as a printer, copier, fax and scanner in one.Other solutions are on the horizon too from Lucent/Bell Labs. The company's goal is to replace the expensive silicon-based technology used in the Rocket Book with a plastic that it says will look and feel like paper."Our goal is to make a paper-like film that is as flexible and easy to read as ink on paper," says Wiltzius. He also hopes his plastic will be 100 times cheaper than the silicon chip based readers.
Lucent is not stopping with electronic paper. The company hopes its paper-like film will work with a separate technological development, called E-Ink, invented by an American start-up of the same name. 
Electronic Ink is a coloured liquid made up of millions of tiny spheres called microcapsules.Each microcapsule has a clear outer surface and is filled with a blue dye and microscopic chips of white pigment which carry a positive charge.
The ink is sandwiched between two transparent conductive sheets and the white pigment is made to rise or fall by electronic charges, creating blue or white dots which can be formed into letters and pictures. To see a graphic representation of this technology, visitwww.electronic-ink.com/technology/flash.htm.Together the companies believe they have produced a truly paper-like solution that will overcome reader's previous cynicism about electronic replacements for paper. "The reality is that if people had wanted to read novels on screen they could have done it 10 years ago," says Russ Wilcox, vice president and general manager of E-Ink.While the partners are not quite ready to release tabloid-sized versions of the e-paper, billboard-sized Immedia boards based on E-Ink's technology have been on trial in high-street shops for some time. They could be on widespread display later this year.When will you be leafing through your electronic Guardian? The answer could be sooner than you think. Xerox claims it has already had a lot of interest from the newspaper publishing community. "There's been a large amount of interest from the newspaper publishing companies to find alternative methods of publishing. In the case of paper there's a lot of cost in print and distribution," says Nick Sheridon, developer of Gyricon.Microsoft has started to address the wider issues of copyright protection and is planning a range of products that will offer "digital rights management to protect internet property," according to Hill.
A 5,000-year-old technology will not be replaced overnight,  but an electronic alternative is just around the corner. As Xerox's Sheridon says: "This is something that is going to happen, and if the right people get involved it could happen within three years."Pick up your pen and scribble a few lines across the internetLet's say you're leafing through the Sunday magazine and you spot an advert selling flowers. Within the advert is a space for you to write a special message to your loved one, a space for the address - where to send the flowers - and the usual boxes for your credit card details. 
No need to worry about cutting out the coupon, then finding envelopes or stamps. Simply fill in the details using an Anoto pen and the flowers are on their way.It's just one of the possible applications for the invention of the newly formed Anoto company, which is aiming to breathe fresh life into one of the world's oldest communications mediums - the pen and ink.For the application form to work as described, it would have to be printed on Anoto's digital paper. This is not much different to traditional paper except that it has a series of small dots imprinted in the page, which gives the paper a slightly off-white appearance.These dots are arranged in a proprietary pattern and set out in a grid. The grid expresses a set of X and Y co-ordinates, commands or services: in this case, the command would be 'send flowers to'. Anoto claims these commands can be accurate to within a third of a millimetre.A tiny digital camera stored within the tip of the pen records the letters and words that you form using the Anoto pen, for example the message you want sent with the flowers. These images are processed within the pen using a dedicated image processor.The next step is to transfer these images, your flower order, to the outside world.
This is done using a transceiver and an internet phone both equipped with the Bluetooth wireless technology. Once the information has been transferred to the phone it is sent out to Anoto's gateway to the internet then on to the flower supplier.They'll receive an exact copy of your order straight to their PC
Another possibility through the company's partnership with Time Manager is that if you write in your digital paper-based diary, the appointment could be automatically transferred through your phone, and it would appear in your electronic diary at work. "This is technology which I hope will change the world," says Christer Fahraeus, founder member of Anoto.Tomorrow's world could come sooner than you think: the company already has working prototypes of the technology, and is planning to launch the paper and pen next year. It will cost slightly more than your average Biro with an expected price tag of around $100.Or if you're lucky, you could get one free with your Ericsson phone, since the mobile phone giant owns an 18% stake in Anoto.
Cisco - a shortened form of San Francisco - shot to fame this year when it briefly overtook Microsoft as the world's     most valuable company. And for many, that came as a bit of a shock.Microsoft might be small, but almost everyone is familiar with its Windows and Office software. Cisco's products are     largely invisible, but form part of the basic plumbing of the internet. Given its 80% market share, it's virtually certain     that all your email and web pages have at some point been forwarded by a Cisco router.        In fact, some analysts have seen Cisco for years as the third element in a notional triumvirate called Wintelcis.     Today's world of networked computers depends at least as much on Cisco routers as it does on Microsoft's Windows     software and Intel's processors. All three companies have fought hard to achieve and maintain their monopoly     market shares, and of the three, Cisco most closely resembles a cult."Cisco employees happily toil away like robots on Prozac, cocooned by the all-consuming lifestyle," notes Paul     Bunnell in the first book about the company, published this week. It's a slim book compared with familiar     blockbusters about Apple, IBM, Microsoft and other industry powers, but it tells a story that few people know.Like hundreds of Silicon Valley success stories from Sun Microsystems to Yahoo!, Cisco started at Stanford     University in Palo Alto, Califor nia. In the early 1980s, the campus had thousands of computers connected together in     networks, but no convenient way of connecting the separate networks together. Working without permission and     without an official budget, Sandy Lerner, director of computing at the Stanford University Business School, her     boyfriend Len Bosack and other engineers just went ahead and did it.      Sandy and Len didn't invent routers - which basically work like electronic post offices, forwarding packets of data     instead of packets of paper.They didn't invent TCP/IP, the internet protocol that defines how the packets travel.     They didn't write the interface software that made the whole thing run. But they did help create a system that got an     incredibly useful job done.        When word of their success spread across the internet, other universities and some businesses wanted to use     Stanford's "black box" to solve the same problem. However, the university wasn't interested in supplying demand,     nor did it want Sandy and Len using its facilities for that purpose. So late in 1984, the couple mortgaged their house     and used their credit cards to start 'cisco (with a small c in those days) in their living room at 199 Oak Grove Avenue,     Atherton, California. Sandy based the company logo on the Golden Gate bridge.      Cisco was a success, but the founders soon lost control. Their venture capitalist backer, Don Valentine, brought in a     management team, and in 1990, seven vice presidents presented him with an ultimatum: it was Sandy or them.Sandy     was out, and Len quit soon afterwards. But at that point, the man most responsible for making Cisco a superpower,     John Thomas Chambers, hadn't even joined the company.      Chambers, a former IBM salesman, turned Cisco from a company with only 500 employees and annual sales of $183m     in 1991 into today's powerhouse, with 21,000 employees and sales worth about $15bn a year. (It reported $8.3bn in     sales for the last six months of 1999.)One of the secrets of Chambers' success has been to expand rapidly by buying in new technologies. He's become     known for paying very high prices for small start-up companies - in one case, Cerent, it came to $25m per employee.      Manda Rigby, the UK director of marketing, says: "We don't buy people for large market share, we don't buy them to     take competitive technologies out and then not develop them, we buy young companies with cutting-edge     technology, and we buy people."Rigby reckons that Cisco has taken over 57 companies, including 11 so far this year. But, she adds, about 75% of the     former chief executives whose companies have been taken over are still with Cisco, "and it can't be because they     need the money".The idea is simple: find out what customers need next and buy the best of the companies starting to supply it. Or in     Cisco's case, buy half a dozen of them, if necessary. But it requires an agnosticism that, at crucial times, has proven     beyond all too many technology companies, including IBM and Apple.      Unlike them, Cisco has not fought religious wars based on an arrogant belief in its own superiority, to the detriment     of its customers' businesses.Of course, Cisco does have a "big idea": its belief in the ultimate triumph of IP, the internet protocol. Chambers bet     the company on the success of the internet, and the belief that it would subsume or displace other forms of     networking. Big bet, big win.      The question now is whether Cisco can expand its dominance of internet technologies both downwards into the     small business/home market, and upwards into the telecommunications business.      In the small business/home market, Cisco will eventually run into Intel, which has earmarked networking as a major     area for its future growth. Indeed, Intel wants to commoditise the networking business by providing cheap "building     block" technologies that will do the same jobs as high-priced equipment like Cisco's. Intel wants to make it as easy to     assemble routers, hubs and switches as it is to assemble PCs.In the telecommunications market, Cisco will run into industry giants such as Lucent (formerly part of the US phone     company, AT&amp;T) and Nortel (originally the Canadian phone company, Northern Telecom). Although "pure IP"     networks - carrying voice calls as well as data - might be the future, the phone companies have already invested     billions in existing systems using different technologies, such as ATM (Asynchronous Transfer Mode     communications).They aren't going to throw it out, and it takes them decades to update their infrastructure.      As Bunnell points out: "The internet industry in which Cisco thrives is built on a tradition of rapid development at the     expense of reliability and tolerance of flaws that would be insufferable in the phone industry." Like Intel and     Microsoft, its business has been built on the rapid development and deployment of new features, rather than fixing     the technology for years and concentrating on reliability.      Still, Chambers believes the world's networks are going to converge into one giant, global telecommunications     system carrying voice, data and anything else that can be digitised. Maybe Cisco won't end up with 80% of it, but it     wont be for want of trying.&#149;  Making the Cisco Connection: The Story Behind the Real Internet Superpower by David Bunnell (John Wiley &amp; Sons,     £16.50).
T he sky will sparkle this Easter weekend with the annual Lyrid shower. The middle of the night is best for viewing, when you might see 10 or 20 shooting stars in an hour.The shower gets its name because it seems to emanate from the constellation Lyra. In fact these are fragments of a comet called Thatcher (no, not named for her), typically pea-sized pieces being visible to the naked eye as they enter the upper atmosphere and burn up in a blaze of glory.But there are many smaller particles, too faint for the eye to see, flying through space. Satellites in space are bombarded with them. A large flat piece of metal can be exposed in orbit, and after it is returned to earth by the space shuttle the number of tiny craters can be counted.Nasa flew a satellite half the size of a bus between 1984 and 1990 to do just this. Since then various other dust exposure experiments have been flown in the US, European, Russian and Japanese space programs. Some of the best data come from the solar cells that powered the Hubble Space Telescope when it was first launched. These were replaced on subsequent servicing missions and brought home. Micrographic inspection of the defunct cells showed them peppered with holes.By counting these perforations, scientists have estimated how much cosmic dust arrives each year on our planet - a staggering 40,000 tons. Where does it all go?A large fraction is destroyed on entering the atmosphere at hypervelocity, producing vivid shooting stars. But the smaller particles - so small that as they heat and melt they can lose their energy as infra-red radiation - are decelerated to a halt high above our heads, then sink to the ground where a judicious search can turn   them up. Such interplanetary grains - called micrometeorites - were first identified in the 1890s when a British oceanographic research ship, the Challenger, dragged a magnet across the floor of the Pacific. When it was brought up from the depths, a horde of tiny metallic spheres were found stuck to it, formed when minute iron meteorites liquefied on zipping into the atmosphere.The ocean beds are still sieved to turn up such extraterrestrial samples, but others are found elsewhere. Nasa flies high-altitude planes equipped with sticky plates protruding from the wings to grab incoming cosmic dust before it reaches the ground. The ice caps of the Antarctic and Greenland have been natural accumulators of interplanetary garbage for millennia. Search teams go there to melt huge blocks of snow and sift out the particles of interest.You could do the same thing, in principle, by sieving the contents of the gutters on your house, the drawback being the huge amount of man-made dust in the industrialised countries. It's the needle-in-a-haystack problem, says Dr Matthew Genge, a micrometeorite researcher at the Natural History Museum: "There's a constant rain of cosmic dust from space that settles on cars, buildings, and even people - each of us is hit by several cosmic visitors each year."Genge is a member of a team working on the chemistry of interplanetary dust - and a lot of information can be derived from a pinhead of extraterrestrial dust.Where does this dust come from? Comets are one source, while asteroids bumping into each other also seem to spawn dust grains that eventually make their way to us. These   free samples from elsewhere in the solar system, allow us to discover much about these celestial bodies without actually visiting them.We'd like to get direct samples, and there is a fleet of space probes either in flight or being readied for launch soon. Nasa's Stardust   satellite is en route to a comet called Wild 2, the aim being to bring some of its dust back to Earth in 2006. Japan intends to return asteroidal dust samples the same year.A revolution in the past few years has been the recognition that there is dust arriving here from interstellar space. That is, the grains represent material from other star systems. The oldest material we have to study comes from meteorites, which all seem to have solidified about 4.6 billion years ago, when the sun and planets formed from a vast nebula of gas and dust thrown out by stars which had finished their own life cycles. Dust from outside the solar system would be   hugely important. It would give us vital clues to how the earth formed and life began.The first hint of interstellar dust arriving in our system came a few years ago from the Ulysses and Galileo satellites. The next step forward came when a radar system in New Zealand threw up evidence of meteors arriving from outside the solar system. Now it is hoped that the Stardust mission will return dust not just from its target comet, but also some identifiable as having an interstellar origin.What will it tell us? Well, we are ourselves made of star dust. In a normal star, various light elements like hydrogen and helium undergo fusion reactions to produce heavier elements, such as carbon, nitrogen, sulphur and oxygen. But heavy   elements cannot be synthesised in this way. They are formed in the transient phenomenal temperatures and pressures of a supernova explosion, the death throe of a giant star.For some time it had been thought likely that a nearby supernova triggered the solar system's formation. The evidence came from isotopic anomalies in meteorites. Now German researchers have shown that single cosmic dust grains contain isotopic fingerprints diagnostic of specific types of supernova. In more ways than one we owe our lives to the long-gone deaths of distant stars.&#149;  Duncan Steel investigates cosmic debris of all dimensions at the University of Salford.
A material that can eat smog whatever the weather has been developed by Japanese scientists. The material based on a mixture of the "whiter than white" pigment titanium dioxide, used in cosmetics and dyes, and activated graphite could be incorporated into construction materials for buildings, bridges and motorway sound baffles to cut down pollution.Dr Koji Takeuchi and his research team at the National Institute of Resources and Environment in Ibaraki have found that titanium dioxide powder mixed with graphite can soak up nitrogen and sulphur oxide gases - NOx and SOx - from the air. These gases are a major source of pollution from vehicle exhausts and accumulate in busy cities and along motorways. "Purifying the air is not as simple as purifying polluted water," explains Takeuchi. "It is impossible to hold air in one place and wind and air currents spread and dissipate airborne pollutants."There are filters on the ventilation towers of many tunnels and underground carparks in Japan, but these use a lot of energy to scrub the polluted air emerging into the atmosphere. A cheaper solution based on simply absorbing the gases into an active material would be much more   environmentally friendly.Absorbing the gases is not enough to be useful though so Takeuchi has experimented by shining ultraviolet light on test materials that had absorbed the polluting gases.Even weak UV light activated the titanium dioxide to break down the NOx and SOx into weak solutions of nitric and sulphuric acid, which cannot evaporate into the air. Takeuchi says that incorporating this smog-eating material into construction components such as cladding for high-rise buildings could act as a pollution sponge, soaking up noxious gases from even the most heavily polluted cities. Sunlight, on the cloudiest of winter days, is enough, he claims, to make the material work. The panels would in effect be self-cleaning and so stay white. At the chemical level, the graphite, which is powdered to produce an enormous surface area in a small volume, acts as a sponge absorbing the pollutants from the air.The titanium dioxide activated by UV light from the sun releases highly reactive oxygen and hydroxy "radicals" - molecules with an extra electron. These radicals race around inside the material reacting with the absorbed pollutant molecules and zapping them into non-volatile acids.But what about getting rid   of the acids? The material regenerates itself when it comes into contact with water, so when it rains the acids are flushed off into gutters where they can be neutralised by addition of alkali lime in the drainage inlet system, leaving refreshed walls ready to eat yet more smog. However, Takeuchi points out, alkali components in the atmosphere also help neutralise the acids as they form, so the lime might not be needed.T o make a smog-eating panel the team coated a sheet of fluorocarbon plastic, similar to Teflon, with a thin layer of the titanium dioxide mixture. The fluorocarbon makes a very tough backing that can resist the weather. Because it is difficult enough to make anything stick to it in the first place it becomes almost impossible for the titanium layer to come off.Accelerated weathering tests show the panels should last at least five years. A panel just one metre square weighs half a kilo and can absorb and destroy several grams of NOx and SOx before it needs to be regenerated, which is enough to last a week or so in even the most polluted of Japan's cities.Large-scale trials are now under way in Tokyo, Takeuchi   said, and if they work as well as he hopes the materials will become widely used in the construction industry for panelling buildings and pavements, be built into motorway sound barriers or tunnel and carpark ventilation towers. He adds that the panels would effectively be maintenance free, requiring only a little sun and a spot of rain once a week, or so. Early results from tests show that the panels can remove up to 30% of the pollution from the notoriously polluted Tokyo air.This simple modification to the urban landscape might be a far more preferable approach to dealing with pollution than simply introducing ever stricter regulations on vehicle use. It might even be possible to reduce traffic volumes enough without a blanket ban to compete with Takeuchi's system.He and his team are now working on paints that could simply be sprayed on to suitable surfaces, thus avoiding the need for panels. He is also tweaking the formulation so that the material works in normal light and not just UV, this he says, would boost the effect 10 times.&#149;  Takeuchi's work is reported in the current issue of the Journal of Environmental Monitoring.
Global Biodiversity: Earth's Living Resources in the 21st Century(World Conservation Monitoring Centre &#163;29.99)One species, Mark Collins points out in the foreword, has appropriated 40% of the world's productivity; about a dozen crops provide 75% of its food. In global biomass, the only other species that even approaches humankind is the Antarctic krill.Krill don't kill, but humans are now exterminating other species at between 100 and 200 times the normal rate of extinction.This is a book to be grabbed eagerly by the confused, who need help through the whole messy business of life: its prodigality, its fragility. This is the book to guide you through the mysteries of phyla: there are only 15 species of sphenophyta or horsetails, but there are 10,000 species of bryophyta or mosses.There are 750 kinds of   tardigrada or water bears, but they seem to be practically indestructible, and 52,000 species of craniata, which include all the bony fishes, all amphibians, birds, reptiles, grizzly bears and humans.The list of recent vertebrate extinctions fills eight pages of small print in this book. There are 500 genetically distinct banana cultivars and, by the way, the banana is an aggressive weed.Cabbage, broccoli, kohlrabi and calabrese are all one species, Brassica oleracea. The Kayapo Indians exploit 45 species of trees (how many people could even name 45 species of tree?) and sow 86 varieties of food plants.Chagga gardeners in Kenya cultivate 100 species. In 21 home gardens of the Santa   Rosa people in Peru, naturalists counted 168 different species. Meanwhile 150 nations cultivate the potato for food, as well as industrial quantities of starch, alcohol, glucose and dextrin. Andean farmers recognise 3,000-5,000 different varieties.Anchovies are by far the most fished-for fish, the annual catch far outweighing the Atlantic cod, herring and skipjack tuna together.You get the picture: even the things you thought you knew, you didn't. Is life possible with diminishing global biodiversity? We are in the process of finding that out. Could you live without this book? Yes, but such books offer something to live by, as well as with.
'I didn't know how to set up an internet company. A little over a year ago I was scared even to set up a Hotmail account," says Sally Meecham, director of start-up company Traveldonkey.com. Nevertheless, she left her &#163;30,000-a-year job as a business development manager to go it alone solely on the strength of her idea.Traveldonkey.comis a website catering for independently minded travellers, but with a twist. Instead of providing heaps of expensive content, Traveldonkey expects the visitors to write the content.Meecham spotted the gap in the market while booking a weekend break on Lastminute. com. "I was frustrated at the lack of reliable information on the region. I found pages and pages of stuff on Portugal, but there didn't seem to be one definitive site that wasn't trying to sell me something."I virtually decided there and then that I was going to jack my job in and set up an internet company."Cybercafes are now an essential feature of the backpacking experience, but Meecham thinks travellers have been poorly served by the web. "Existing brands like Lonely Planet and Rough Guide have operated defensive web strategies to protect their guidebooks," she says. "No real player has come to dominate what is a potentially very lucrative area."Visitors are being tempted to contribute to Traveldonkey with cash prizes, holidays and even an offer to win 10% of the company's profits - should it ever make any. But Meecham says: "Travellers are incredibly opinionated and just love to tell you stuff that isn't in the guidebooks." She hopes this word-of-mouth culture will work online. Early figures look good, with 3% of users submitting content on their first visit.Two friends from Leeds Polytechnic have given back-end support in return for shares. Other than that Traveldonkey has been funded with only a &#163;10,000 bank loan.Meecham doesn't plan to carry banner advertisements, nor will the site entertain any e-commerce. Revenue will be generated by selling hyperlinks. Restaurants, bars and hostels that receive favourable reviews will be offered the chance to buy a link to accompany the review.But what is to stop restaurant owners posting their own - favourable - reviews? "We will provide a box below each review that invites comments from other users," says Meecham. "I think in the end the truth will win out."By attending a growing number of networking parties for net entrepreneurs, Meecham has already come into contact with a number of venture capitalists who are expressing a keen interest. "I've found networking events likeWebgrrrlsand Digital Media totally useful. When I started, I knew absolutely nothing but a lot of people were prepared to listen to me and give their advice for free," she says. The network of parties also kept her spirits up in the early days.Asking volunteers to compile directories is not new. The success of sites like Epinions and theOpen Directory Projectproves that users are prepared to submit valuable opinions for free.If Traveldonkey succeeds, it could offer an example of how quickly a good website idea can still sell itself, however na&iuml;ve its creators seem at its inception. And in a month when accusations of the gentrification of the web increased, the success of a site like traveldonkey could help counter the perception that only the well connected, and the well-heeled can now make a mint in cyberspace.
Enter the world of Microsoft Research at its three-year-old $80m Cambridge University research lab, and the company's recent antitrust trial hardly seems to have registered on the radar screen. Research, after all, is research.But given the events of the past few weeks, the subtext of a visit to the lab was always going to be the antitrust trial. The hastily organised invitation to European journalists to visit last week was a clear effort by Microsoft to improve   contacts with writers and focus attention on its European star attraction.Despite the hype around the announcement of the lab in 1997, the Cambridge facility has kept a low profile. It has never held an open house, although it now boasts 65 researchers, including a winner of the Turing Award in mathematics.Microsoft's announcement last week that it was accelerating construction of its new 6,000 sq metre building in Cambridge underlines that   the company had perhaps forgotten until now that the lab is a natural for attracting positive public relations spin.The lab's director, Professor Roger Needham, seemed disinterested rather than wary of the trial, so getting the issue out of the way swiftly was left to Greg Levin, Microsoft's European director of marketing. He was politely defiant. "How cangovernment play a very supportive role but not get in the way of bringing great new products to market?" he asked. The company also   pointedly displayed a new slogan for Microsoft Research: "Enabling the future through innovation." During the trial "innovation" became a loaded term for Microsoft's Defence team, who argued that the department of Justice was restricting innovation by trying to curb the way Microsoft conducted business and provided products and services.However, the focus of the day was to let the lab's researchers discuss the topics they considered far more pressing: artificial intelligence, human-computer interaction, machine learning, speech technologies, distance learning and virtual reality. The lab's open house focused in particular on how all these computing areas are affected by probability theory - ways of analysing whether unlikely events will happen,   and how they can be predicted and accommodated to keep computer hardware and software running smoothly.Microsoft's specification for its first lab outside Redmond (it now has a second lab in China) was that it be European and not British in scope, and that it be willing to push new ideas and ignore commercial pressures. Needham noted that former Microsoft chief technology officer Nathan Myhrvold (on leave of absence) told him: "If every project you start succeeds, you've failed."Such a mindset differentiates pure research from product research. "In many big corporations, the research branch is not autonomous. It's a contract branch working for the product division," he said. "Our job is to make technologies, not to make products." The comment underlines   Needham's priorities when the lab was first announced in 1997, one British fear was that the American software company known for its tight internal control would simply buy up British research creativity then squeeze new American products out of it.Of course, the open house was really an opportunity to glimpse Microsoft's future, and the emphasis on the internet and on wireless devices and technologies reveals the directions in which post-trial Redmond has been heading.Given the company's ability to roll with the toughest punches and reinvent itself, only an extreme cynic or a fool could doubt that visitors were seeing some of the areas in which some future incarnation of Microsoft will again be a dominant force.
Sony to drive PS2 hardSony is planning to add a hard drive and modem to its PlayStation 2 games console when it is launched in the US later this year, according to a   report from Tokyo from the Bloomberg news service. The story, which has not been denied, cites "a company executive who asked not to be named".Adding the hard drive will make the PlayStation 2 more competitive with Microsoft's X-Box console, which is not due to arrive until autumn 2001. Microsoft had claimed that the X-Box would be the first console with a built-in hard drive.It's not clear whether Sony's hard drive will be built into the case or a separate peripheral. Either way, it will create problems for software developers, since several million machines will already   have been sold without one. Sony is expected to make a formal announcement at the E3 games trade exhibition which opens in Los Angeles on May 11.Top gamesTheAcademy of Interactive Arts and Scienceswill hand out its annual awards at E3 on May 11, and has just posted nominations on its website. Finalists for the game of the year award are Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings, Donkey Kong 64, Pok&eacute;mon Yellow, Soul Calibur, The Sims, and Unreal Tournament.Sea MonkeysCreature Labs, the British company behind the Creatures artificial life series, is using the same technology for   a program based on dehydrated packets of brine shrimp. For the past 40 years, Transcience Corporation has sold these tiny creatures to American and British children asSea Monkeys.  Just add water and you get instant pets.Not guiltyUS district court judge Edward Johnstone has thrown out a case brought against 25 video game companies following a shooting spree in a Kentucky high school by 14-year-old Michael Carneal.Declining to hold the game manufacturers responsible, the judge said: "Tragedies such as this simply defy rational explanation, and courts should not pretend otherwise."Rare movieWith the long-delayed Perfect Dark game near completion, Rare is starting to wind up the hype for what could be the apotheosis of Nintendo 64 gaming. The British programmers have just released a QuickTime movie of the game atwww.perfectdark.com.  It comes in three sizes: big (2.1 megabytes), bigger (3.7MB) and biggest (19.8MB).
The government has raised around &#163;22bn from its online auction for radio spectrum to be used by the all-singing, all-dancing 3rd generation (3G) of mobile phones with two-way video and permanent access to the internet.This proves that Britain doesn't have to be taken to the cleaners by multinational corporations pitting government against government. Gordon Brown has scored an unequivocal victory for the taxpayer by extracting up to &#163;25bn even if he has to put it in a piggy bank for now because of concerns about public spending.Or has he? Before being drowned in the almost universal euphoria, it is worth reminding ourselves that in economics there really is no such thing as a free lunch - and, especially not when the tab comes to &#163;25bn.In Finland, which has a world lead in mobile technology, they are doing the exact opposite of what Britain is planning. In March last year Finland became the first country in the world to award 3G licences when four of them were given to four telecommunications companies. And the interesting thing is that they were given away for nothing after the 15 applicants - none of them   British - had survived a "beauty parade" in which they interrogated about their financial resources, reliability, speed at which they could implement the programme and so on."The basic logic", according to Risto Linturi, a guru attached to Helsinki Telephone, "is that radio band is a common resource which yields maximum economic gain if it is used up to the greatest level as soon as possible. So, everything should be done to get companies to put it into use as soon as possible and then make it possible for them to compete with each other with as low prices as possible".Harri Pursiainen, deputy director-general of Finland's communications administration department regards our &#163;20bn-plus levy as a form of taxation. "We want to promote information technology services, not to tax them" and adds: "We have the cheapest mobile phone services in the world, one third of what is charged in Germany. I believe that is the number one explanation for the fact that Finland has the highest penetration of mobile phones in the world." But won't the country's policy of giving spectrum away free merely generate extra profits for the operators? No, says Pursiainen, it will lead to lower   prices because there will be fierce competition among the four licensees.By promoting mass, affordable, access to mobile phones, Finland hopes to nurture a fast expanding market which the Finnish giant Nokia - the world's biggest manufacturer of mobile phones - can use as a launching pad for continued world domination.It looks as though Finland will be at least a year ahead of other countries in its use of the 3G phones. It is really a repeat of what happened in America where widespread, cheap access to the internet helped US companies like Cisco and Sun to dominate construction of the infrastructure where the really big profits are made.The Finnish government clearly doesn't believe it will necessarily get the best operators by auctioning off the spectrum to the highest bidders. It strongly believes in having an inclusive policy towards the new technologies by trying to get them to as many people, poor and rich alike, in the shortest possible   time. The government rejected cherry-picking applications for regional licences - such as for the Helsinki area - on the grounds that national licences will increase competition more efficiently than regional ones and will bring early services to people throughout the country and not just the prosperous cities of southern Finland.Tony Blair and Gordon Brown also believe in an inclusive approach to the spread of the internet and the mobile phone - which looks like being the vehicle to bring the internet (albeit in truncated form) to a truly mass audience. But how is this compatible with charging companies well over &#163;20bn for the privilege of buying the licences to build?Pursiainen reckons this will lead to one of two outcomes: either there will be higher prices or else bankruptcies as there were last year in the US when companies overbid for spectrum licences.Finland's policy could encounter unexpected obstacles. What might happen if one of the winning licensees tries to sell its licence to someone else?As Linturi points out, this could lead to the same situation as in Britain except that it would be the licensees,   not the government ,who got the money. If Britain were to give the licences away for nothing then, if competitive pressures were operating properly, it would result in a cheaper service being offered.This in turn would lead to more phones being bought more quickly. This would trigger faster acceptance of the new technology with lots more work for component industries (and therefore more taxes to governments). This could lead to greater exports and higher profits for the licensing companies (who would also pay higher taxes to government).In one sense it's just a question of whether the government insists that taxes are collected in advance at the time the spectrum is bid for - or during the 20-year span of the licences.The difference between these two scenarios could be whether Britain becomes a pioneer of inclusive internet access or a laggard.One thing is certain - Gordon Brown can't have it both ways. He can't expect to amass vast taxes up front and expect to match Finland's cheap access.If I were him I would be thinking of ways to re-cycle most of that money pretty quickly. Or else the digital divide will soon become the digital canyon.
Pokémon move to the big screenPok&eacute;mon StadiumNintendo N64 &#163;49.99 Nintendo	****If you know what happens to a level 20 Magikarp, or that Eevee can evolve into Jolteon, then read on.If the last sentence means nothing then one of the other reviews on this page may be more appropriate to your needs. You see, Pok&eacute;mon is one of those generational earthquakes that crops up now and then, with only a few adults possessing the three I's (inclination, imagination, immaturity) necessary for a true appreciation of Pikachu and co.Pok&eacute;mon Stadium does at least begin to bridge this divide with its big, colourful screen visuals making easier viewing for adults. It's much nicer than having to squint at a Game Boy.But this is not simply an N64 version of the Game Boy   titles, and can't really be described as a game in the traditional sense. Yes, there are challenges and mini-games, but there is little in the way of progression. Instead, this is all about the gladiatorial tussles between your own pocket monsters and the Pok&eacute;mon included.That's right, you can actually transfer your Pok&eacute;mon from the Game Boy to the N64, which allows you to view your well-trained creatures in full technicolour glory. This is made possible by the innovative Transfer Pak - a plastic gizmo that connects the handheld's cartridge to the N64. It will also be used in Rare's forthcoming Goldeneye sequel, Perfect Dark.The ability to upload you and your friends' Pok&eacute;mons means things really come alive when two-players battle it out in a turn-based contest. The only drawback is the low stakes: with no winner-takes-all, the loser forfeits little.Still, this latest weapon in the Pok&eacute;mon bid for world domination is very welcome. But remember, this is all just for kids... isn't it?  (GH)This cricket sim is no great catchCricket 2000Sony PlayStation 	&#163;29.99  Electronic Arts 	*Cricket is the poor relation in Electronic Arts' squad of sports simulations. American buyers ensure that there's no slacking when it comes to simulating basketball, baseball, ice-hockey and American football and the worldwide popularity of soccer has helped make Fifa 2000 one of EA's best-selling titles. But the summer game has not had the same support.Cricket 2000, making its first outing on the PlayStation, is the poor relation of the poor relation - even Electronic Arts's press release for the game keeps referring to the PC instead of the PSX.The graphics are crude, the animation is wooden, and the play somewhat hit and miss. Since you have to fix your shot direction before the bowler   has reached the crease, it's frequently miss.And while Cricket 2000 has retained the voices of the excellent Richie Benaud and David Gower, the commentary is also repetitious - though perhaps that's inevitable with a ball-by-ball commentary shorn of speculation and waffle.As with many sports sims, there is some fun to be had with the two-player version, but payers can only go head-to-head, not play co-operatively against the computer.On the good side, Cricket 2000 is a comprehensive version of the one-day game, and has been licensed by the International Cricket Council. It includes 12 international teams and more than 25 stadiums from various countries, so you can hold your own World Cup, though there's no scope for fixing matches or betting on the results.But if you really need a cricket simulation, wait for the PC version, which should be out early next month. According to the website atwww.easportscricket.comit has many more features, and whatever its faults, it can't be worse than this.  (JS)Old racer is given a jump startMicro ManiacsSony PlayStation &#163;29.99 Codemasters	****Micro Maniacs comes to you courtesy of Codemasters - the company that brought you Micro Machines, Micro Machines 2, Micro Machines' European Vacation, etc.And to be frank, the whole miniaturised-car thing was getting a bit boring. So what do Codemasters do? They take off the wheels, bung on some legs instead, change one word of the title and think they can get away with it.And the annoying thing is, they do. Despite an almost identical premise, much the same graphics, and deeply familiar gameplay, they have somehow revitalised the tiny racing genre. Using one of   eight starting characters, each with his or her own unique weapon, you can burn leather against a friend, AI-controlled opponents or the clock over courses that range from a bareback bee derby to a gore-spattered slog round a workman's tool bench.So why does it work? Completing certain races in the single-player campaign powers up your characters and   makes bonus tracks and characters available; that's pretty much standard these days.  The little people are well animated and moderately amusing; they're also quite disturbing. Up to eight can play, if you split controllers; but that's just silly.The variety and ingenuity of the tracks give the game its enduring appeal, with slides, jumps, rotating drills, trains,   lasers and a Frogger-style subgame adding new depth to the usual shenanigans.If you don't own a copy of Micro Maniacs, I suggest you go out and buy one. And if you haven't got any friends, go out and buy some of those, too. It's more fun than an hour with S Club 7 in a bath full of custard.  (AB)
Staring at a screen's worth of figures, most of them red, the finger poised over the mouse, the trader wiped imaginary sweat from his brow. Should he sell now or wait? Every minute the figures were updated, real time, and every minute he knew exactly what effect that had on his share portfolio.My God - there went another &#163;7.50. For this was not a City trading floor but my house in north London. For I have become a net share trader - and have a loss of &#163;250 on my &#163;1,000 investment eight months ago to prove it.It was all done for a bit of fun, which is lucky, because you can see how beguiling and potentially loss making this game could become.I signed up withE*Tradehaving read about its launch in the newspapers. It was easy to sign up on-line, but the cash to start trading had to be a rather unmodern cheque in the post which took a few days to arrive.Then when I logged on with my username and password, which you have to use several times every time you use the site, I was ready to trade. This is not day trading - where you get in and out daily - but trading on an   ordinary basis while bypassing the stockbroker and most of his fees.For small trades E*Trade charges a minimum &#163;14.95, plus a couple of quid for stamp duty. This is less than most stockbrokers but even so it soon became clear that to buy and sell just one company's shares would cost more than &#163;30 - so buying &#163;300 worth of shares would mean they would have to go up more than 10% before I saw any profit.And while the E*Trade site can give you masses of information on any company, it can't make you any good at investment. I have seen a procession of punts go nowhere but south.But E*Trade is fascinating. Information is available on   any listed company, business, news from the stock exchange and news from AFX, a business news service. It will draw instantly graphs of share prices for previous weeks or years. There is a glossary and user guide online and a freephone customer service number where I have never had to wait more than a minute.Dealing itself is simple. Tap in the name of the company whether you are buying or selling and you get an instant quote - as long as you have the funds to back it up. One more click and it is done.Occasionally there have been glitches. And one cost me my one and only chance to make money. There had been something in the papers about a certain company and I decided to buy a couple of hundred shares.I went through all the rigmarole one evening, expecting the trade to be completed at the opening of the market the next day. The share shot up in the morning but for some reason my deal had been rejected. I rang up   and E*Trade said it had no idea why it had been rejected. But that was that. And of course the shares went down and the opportunity was lost.But it has not put me off, even though I do much more looking than dealing and now pay E*Trade &#163;9.95 to get prices live rather than delayed for 15 minutes. It makes looking more fun, especially when there is a dive as there was on Monday and you see it happening in front of your eyes.Then there is the contentious issue of bulletin boards and the conversational "threads" thereon. E*Trade's BBs are full of what looks to be junk.Here is some of the advice from last Friday from a thread about Tadpole from someone calling themselves Break-even: "When the market does eventually turn the corner, imho tadpole will likely to be one of the winners with a great future ahead."The note rambled on for a while and was followed with this note from dd: "All I can say is b****y Yanks - with allies like this who needs enemies!"It continued: "Ps sorry to any americans on the board, it's just that if it wasn't for a great number of your compatriots deciding to do a eunuch impression, we would all be far happier swimming in the sea of the pounds instead of the pond of the pennies. Still all the best laid plans get delayed a month or so :-)" My decision to take no notice of these people is, I think, my best one.Now, if you will excuse me, I have a little more money to lose. But not much.Other internet brokerswww.schwab-worldwide.com/Worldwide/EuropeCommission rates start at &#163;15, rising to &#163;75 . New customers get 30 days' free trading.www.barclays-stockbrokers.comMinimum commission &#163;11.99; maximum &#163;39.99.www.halifax.co.uk/sharedealCommission of &#163;12.50 for deals up to &#163;2,500, rising to &#163;50 for deals over &#163;60,000www.redm.co.ukOnline arm of Redmayne Bentley 0.5%commission; minimum charge &#163;12.95, maximum &#163;39.95.
Music ringing in your earsVirgin hopes to ship the first mobile phone with a built-in stereo MP3 music player this summer. As usual, users will download MP3 music files to their phone via a personal computer. Sir Richard Branson says: "Why carry a player    and a separate mobile when you can have both in one small digital device?" Answers include: because two devices may be less expensive and more convenient than one, and you don't lose your MP3 player when your phone becomes obsolete. The Samsung SGH M100 with 32 megabytes of memory will cost about &#163;300 and will work with Virgin Mobile's services.Touch hereA New Zealand company,PulseData International, has developed a two-pound electronic organiser for blind users.The BrailleNote, designed by Dr Russell Smith, runs   Microsoft's Windows CE operating system, and provides word processing, personal information management programs and other features. It offers an 18 or 32 cell refreshable Braille display, and can synchronise and exchange files with a desktop PC running Microsoft Office.The BrailleNote's interface has been designed so that blind users can work through options in a linear fashion rather than navigating with a stylus and pull-down menus. Pulse Data International UK is on 01933-626 000 or emailpdiuk@cs.com. Prices start at &#163;2,795 (18 cell) and &#163;3,795 (32 cell).Red alertThere you are on an important date, just about to pick up the bill for an expensive dinner, when your mobile phone goes off. It's those nice people atFirstdirect.com, who've sent you a message to say your account is overdrawn.   You'll be able to order updates whenever your salary goes in, and further updates when it suddenly goes back out again.Firstdirect.com plans to launch its banking service, which will work with any mobile phone, next week. A banking service for Wap    (Wireless application protocol) phones will follow in the summer.Cool noteIn the US, Toshiba has announced its first ultraportable with a 500MHz Intel Pentium III processor. Usually these generate too much heat for small notebook PCs, but Toshiba is using a "super cooling" system to distribute heat through the machine. The Portege 3440CT also includes 64MB of memory and a 6GB hard drive in a 3.4 pound package that costs $2,499. The UK launch is due on Tuesday and the street price is expected to be about &#163;1,500 plus VAT.
Sci-fi style videophones may be hogging the headlines, but third generation (3G) mobile phones will be far more than just a tool for face-to-face communication. They'll also deliver instant information via the internet, allow users to watch television and listen to music on the move and even send instructions to domestic appliances such as VCRs.It is claimed they will be so fast that users will be able to access video and data services simultaneously - so they can make a video call while examining pages from the internet.Over the past few months the leading mobile phone companies have been parading mock-ups and prototypes of the type of products 3G will deliver. Some resemble standard phones. Others sport keyboards and screens which are dead ringers for hi-tech electronic personal organisers. The makers predict that such devices will be ready for the launch of 3G in 2002.Wap's slow and problematic birth offers a timely reminder that all the hype about 3G products and services has to be taken with a giant pinch of salt. It's likely that many of 3G's most desirable features won't be available at a price domestic phone users can afford until at least 2003/4.Current industry estimates put the price of a video phone at around &#163;300 to &#163;500 and an internet connected 3G phone at around &#163;200. Users will also pay a significant premium to phone networks to access the format's range of   services. In spite of this, the five prototypes pictured on this page offer a tantalising glimpse of how phones of the future might look. Each has been chosen to highlight a specific use for a 3G phone. However, it is likely that some phones will undertake almost all of their tasks.VideophonesUndoubtedly 3G's killer application, the videophone will have an enormous impact on the way business is conducted. The technology will enable bosses to keep tabs on travelling sales staff, commuters to take part in video conferences while on the train, and architects to examine video reports from construction sites. For the domestic user, the phone companies hope that the main driver will be the LAT (look at this!) factor. Grandparents will be able to see images of their newborn grandchildren, while holidaying couples can show images of sun kissed beaches to the envious folks back home. The Orange network will introduce the UK's first ever mobile videophone at the end of the year. Other networks will probably wait until the arrival of 3G in 2002 before unveiling their models. Inevitably, both the phone and the video service will be expensive.Entertainment phonesFancy a little music on the move? Owners of some 3G phones will be able to download and listen to the latest albums from their favourite   artists no matter where they are. The music will be stored on high capacity postage stamp-sized cards such as Sony's memory stick and Panasonic/ Toshiba/Sandisk's SD (secure digital) and replayed via the phone's internet music player. BT and Panasonic are trialling music playing mobile phone devices, while Sony hopes the phone pictured here will supersede the Walkman. 3G phones will also deliver TV pictures for football fans to watch the big game anywhere.Photo phonesThese will have built-in digital cameras capable of emailing electronic images . Sony expects such models to sell to low end business users and consumers not yet ready to take the plunge and buy a videophone.Information phonesThe arrival of 3G, with download speeds that are up to 150 times faster than the current GSM/Wap models, will lead to an explosion of phone/personal organiser style devices which will be permanently connected to the internet.The earlier adopters of 3G services are likely to be organisations that wish to give staff full access to corporate intranets. However, a host of innovative new services will ensure that demand for both business and domestic users is high.As each phone features an   integrated GPS (global positioning system) chip, the 3G devices will be able to offer instant localised information services.For example, film fans will instantly be able to access information on the films being shown at the local cinemas - and download video clips of the movies they'd like to see.Tourists will get a map and historical information of a site or landmark in front of them directly downloaded onto the phone. Business travellers will be able to access the menus of local restaurants, or find out   which nearby pubs will be showing the evening's big football match. 3G phones will also communicate directly with other household devices and internet connected devices. The phone could email the online refrigerator to discover what food is left in the icebox.Shopping phonesMany of the world's big electronic retailers believe that 3G phones will lead to a massive increase in online shopping.The format's ultra quick download speeds will enable users to see any number of items in a very short time. Future mobiles will also support a slot for credit cards, which will instantly send the owner's financial details to the virtual stores via the net.
But is it e-Art?Although e-commerce attracts the most media coverage, e-art is gaining acceptance, and theWhitney Museum of Arthas now started to include websites in its biennial exhibitions. The first display includes nine sites which "range from those that consist almost exclusively of text to others that are collages of images and sound". They include Darcey Steinke's Blindspot, Lew Baldwin's Redsmoke and the familiarRTmarkagit-prop site.BewitchedWhile it's probably not art,Bewitchedis never less than thought-provoking. Its delights include an interactive version of Van Gogh's Starry Night, and diagrams of famous musical compositions.Beat comboThe Oasis show in Toronto on April 29 - part of the Standing On The Shoulder Of Giants world tour - will be webcast live by theMicrosoft Networkand the band's official site atwww.oasisinet.com(note that extra "i" between oasis and net when you type this address into your browser). Noel will also be chatting to fans via the two sites on Wednesday April 26.Tune inSonicBoxhas launched a software radio for your Windows-based PC. The free iM-band tuner  will play Windows Media and RealMedia streamed files, and will be followed by an iM Remote Tuner - hardware that will apparently work via a standard radio. A Tell Me More button will even request song information to be sent by email. It comes pre-programmed with 25 different station genres and 32 stations per genre.SloganeeringBeanz Meanz Heinz is the most popular line in the    Advertising Slogan Hall of Fame, with the top advertising slogans being selected by a 12-man panel of experts. Further selections are on the way at theADSlogans Unlimitedsite . Incidentally, the three most overworked slogans are: The natural choice (used by 60 advertisers), It's about time, (45) and Simply the best (30).Diet checkerThe US government's Centre for Nutrition Policy and Promotion is helping to fight obesity with an online diet-checker. Enter what you've eaten - a tedious process - and the database checks it against federal dietary guidelines. However, theInteractive Healthy Eating Indexhas proven very popular so don't all go at once...New and notedThe Excite web portal now lets users chat to one another using old-fashion voice technologywww.excite.co.uk/people_and_chat/voicechat. The software is for Windows only and lets you talk with up to 10 people at once. Microsoft has put a digital diva - Stacy Elliott - online    to offer computer advice "in the language of everyday people"www.microsoft.com/digitaldiva. The UK's top men's designer fashion ranges are now being offered atwww.designerheaven.com, while thee-Angel'shave arrived  to help would-be entrepreneurs start new businesses, not just dot.coms. The US Supreme Court has finally opened a website atwww.supremecourtus.gov, but the design looks as though it was started in 1995. The anti-Blair backlash is represented by the thinking man's guide to New Labour atwww.stupidgit.co.uk.
Get flashyIn reply to Chris Emery's plea to keep things simple on the web: surely he cannot think that designing websites for the lowest common denominator (Wap phones) is the way forward?The way the web is going to expand is to make it more user friendly to the computer illiterates out there. If all they saw when logging on to a website was the plain text of a Wap enabled website they would soon get bored and turn off. It is the flashy title bars and framing which is an attention grabber and makes for ease of navigation.I know at the moment that downloading these sites using a normal modem can be a pain, but we are on the brink of a rapid bandwidth increase for all. The internet has the space for all the different types of access methods, so why not maximise the capabilities of each one rather than forcing those with a good PC and fast connection to use only a fraction of the power available to them?Peter Tuckerpeter.tucker@hhb.co.ukGoing slowI am glad to hear that some BT exchanges are "ADSL-ready". Ours is barely internet-ready. The maximum connect speed is 31k bps, due to DACS &#91;a way of splitting phone lines&#93;. Home Highway is not available due to the exchange type, and BT won't allow me to have ISDN at the same price as Home Highway, which I thought might be a reasonable compromise.There are no nearby cable operators, and Ionica disappeared a couple of years ago, and never made it out of the south-east anyhow.Any cheap Iridium deals going? Or do I just have to wait for the exchange to be struck by lightning?Mike Whittakermikewhittaker@totalise.co.ukLyrics foundRe the query about songs (Feedback April 13), there is no single site that provides all lyrics and those which do exist have had much trouble. Music publishers have taken legal action against lyric sites, especially what used to be the main source - Lyrics Server atwww.lyrics.ch. After a compromise agreement, this is now back on-line but not yet returned to its former glory. Other sites which can spring lyrics from a phrase or line as clue include:&#149;http://tinpan.fortunecity.com/blondie/313&#149;http://lyrics.natalnet.com.br/html/main_index/index.html&#149;www.lyricshq.com&#149;www.mudcat.orgIf you like Usenet, alt.music.lyrics is a useful place; you can post requests for lyrics or for song titles. And it's often surprising what you find if you type a phrase into a standard search engineJohn Deanjohn-dean@msn.comBiggest fanIt's interesting that Tom Loosemore has such a high opinion of the UpMyStreet web site. Nominet lists the administrative contact for upmystreet.com as... Tom Loosemore.Was Tom being ironic, or was he just seeing how far your journalist would check the facts?Dave Crossdave@dave.org.ukInfamous 5I read the article about the new Netscape browser with interest, but one thing remains unclear: what happened to Netscape 5? As far as I can see Netscape opened up the code for it but never consolidated it all and skipped straight to version 6.Is this to make sure they remain one (version) step ahead of Microsoft, in which case they are being rather childish? Or are they ignoring a flawed policy with version 5, in which case they should admit it and stop being so silly! I want answers! :-)George Forthforth@dircon.co.uk&#149;  Online replies: Netscape 5 did go missing, presumed by many to be lost to programming difficulties. But don't rule out the childish answer...
How long have you been using the net?Since1994. The first time I discovered it was when I was in Canada and I had real difficulty getting hold of the UK football scores. I came across this thing called Gopher and there was some poor individual sitting in this country listening to Radio 5 writing the scores down as they happened! I think it's evolved so quickly that we often take it for granted - it's such an amazing resource to have at your fingertips. It would be interesting if someone did a study to work out how many man years it would take just to visit all the web-content available.How important is e-commerce?I think we've just seen the tip of the iceberg. The true power of e-commerce happens when everybody's tuned into it because then you get the linking of systems and huge efficiencies that can save a massive amount of time and money. I think it's going to take years to get to a point where you can see a truly globalised e-commerce economy.How are people embracing the opportunity to buy or rent their homes online?I think people have realised very quickly that the internet has given all the power to the consumer and Houseweb is a consumer-focused service. We've been working to the principle that you're the best placed person to sell your house as you're the one who's been living in it and, on average, we've been saving people who use our service at least &#163;4000.How much do you indulge in e-commerce?All the time. I make an effort now, whenever I can, to use the net. It's a much cleaner way of doing things as everything's trackable. I do my banking online now as well. If I'm thinking of buying something I'll generally use the internet now right through from researching whatever it is to purchasing it. I think more and more people will become like that as they realise that doing it via the net will usually save them money.Is security still an issue?About a year and a half ago security was the hot topic every time you read a newspaper. I think one of the key things now is that everyone is focusing on what the opportunity of e-commerce is and not what the threat is.You also have to think that, if there was ever a real big security problem, you would get to hear about it very quickly. But I do think it's important that they keep building new and better encryption facilities as there will always be a risk.Any favourite places on the net?I'm a bit of a footie fan so, now that Liverpool has a site, I often go to itwww.liverpoolfc.net. I'm also a music fanatic so from a recording/playing point of view I really like to useHarmony Central. On a day-to-day basis I tend to log on toIndustry On Internet. and the Guardian site  for news.The Registeris good fun as well.&#149; You can find more details of Houseweb atwww.houseweb.com
It is going to be the biggest mobile telephone bill ever. Having topped &#163;20bn last week, bidding neared &#163;22bn yesterday morning in the auction for five newly released chunks of radio spectrum - space on the airwaves for a new generation of mobile telecommunications.Scrapping it out for the five third generation, or 3G, licences are six telecoms heavyweights: Vodafone, BT, Orange and One2One - the current mobile operators - plus cable giant NTL and TIW of Canada. Telefonica of Spain pulled out on Monday, joining another half dozen firms who have found the going too expensive.The prize? The right to run one of a new generation of high-speed mobile networks which will - the telcos claim - bring the internet and multimedia to subscribers at blisteringly high speeds, while they are on the move. The new services could be available some time in 2002.Yet it could all end in tears for those who win a licence. The massive amounts they are going to pay the exchequer may mean 3G handsets and services will be too expensive for ordinary consumers. Also, cheaper technologies which do not require completely new networks, or expensive 3G licences, could give the new networks a run for their money.The spectacular failure of the Iridium satellite telephone network - whose startup costs of around $7bn were still lower than those faced by some of the successful 3G bidders - shows that expensive handsets and high call charges put off most consumers. Iridium won only around 50,000 customers worldwide before it collapsed last month, with debts of $5bn.Like Iridium, 3G could be undermined by the strength of competing technologies. GPRS (general packet radio service), due to arrive in Britain later this year, will bring more power to mobile devices, but without many of the huge startup costs faced by 3G.Eventually, GPRS could become powerful enough to offer some of the services available on 3G through technology   called Edge (Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evaluation).Edge has been developed specifically as an alternative for telecoms companies who lose out in 3G auctions, and it could deliver 400Kbps to mobile handsets. Twin ISDN lines to desktop PCs currently offer only 128Kbps; the best telephone line modems offer a maximum of 56Kbps. This would be enough to offer video and high-quality audio, despite being only around half as fast as 3G.Sam Forster, technology head in Cap Gemini UK's strategic technology unit, says this technology could undermine the business case for 3G. "You could be looking at, potentially, up to half a meg of bandwidth without having a 3G licence. That makes an interesting financial model if you think that kind of bandwidth is good enough for your organisation."At the heart of what its fans say will be the 3G revolution will be new handsets  and a new way of using your phone. You won't just talk to it any more, you'll be able to watch TV, listen to music, shop, book a restaurant table and surf the net. And, since it will always be connected to the network, you'll always receive important information "pushed" down the airwaves at you.That is the hype. Some may say we have been down this road before - only recently, with Wap (wireless application protocol), which has been disappointingly buggy and slow. 3G also faces a number of challenges, not least the huge amounts paid out for the licences to run the networks.  
It is important to remember the vast sums promised in the bandwidth auction come before the expected &#163;3bn apiece cost of building the infrastructure for each network. And Forster points out that "mobile operators are still dreaming up the business models" as auction prices soar."The mobile operators are so desperate to get a licence for this bandwidth that these vast sums are being spent. The figures the networks are talking are around &#163;3,000 a customer, just to pay for the   licence, and then anything between &#163;1,000 and &#163;3,000 for the infrastructure."It's a significant investment by these organisations. It's obviously great news for the taxpayer, but not such great news for the future mobile subscribers," says Forster. He adds that successful bidders will attempt to recoup some of their costs by reselling parts of the bandwidth."They will also introduce new ways of paying for content and services used by mobile subscribers," he says. "They could charge per packet &#91;of data&#93;, they could charge per event, they could charge by the amount of data or even what kind of data it is. The 3G charging models will be pretty much based around the existing internet ones, plus the existing cable ones with things like video on demand."The mobile phone industry is confident that the technology will, at least, be able to deliver. Mike Short, director of international affairs at BT Cellnet , says 3G will "allow for a much greater mobile information society, where information overload can be avoided".He adds: "By the time 3G is in, we'll be beyond just short messaging into short postcards. We'll also be into longer messages as well, where email to the mobile phone is much more common. That doesn't mean huge PowerPoint messages to the phone - it may mean only relevant personalised messages. So, for example, have your email headers delivered to you. You might have your emails screened so that only those relevant by location are sent, or you might let through the ones from the managing director - or your wife."Janiece Webb, senior vice president of Motorola's personal networking group, says   the G3 mobiles will deliver "convergence" - where the worlds of computing, internet, communications and entertainment merge and complement each other. "By the end of 2003 there will be well over a billion wireless internet users - more than there are internet users today," she says.Motorola is forming alliances with companies like Oracle and IBM to bring powerful database-driven business applications to mobile phone users. "Those in the database environment want to be able to extend their reach and let customers take whatever they want to do wirelessly," says Webb."The single thing in short supply in today's environment is time. People's work lives and home lives are blurring. Productivity comes from being able to do whatever I want to do wherever I'm at - I don't have to do it hooked to a PC in the office. I should be able to read my emails or get critical information regardless of where I am."This may sound like 3G will be a business tool, rather than one for the masses. Webb admits that businesses will probably be the first users, but says the large amount of bandwidth on offer should make mobile online entertainment compelling. Young people, already voracious consumers of mobile technology, will quickly take to 3G, she says.But will ordinary consumers be able to afford 3G? Forster points out that the recent explosion in mobile phone use has been fuelled by cheap handsets and pre-pay phones with no expensive long-term contracts. "Early takeup is encouraged by low start-up costs: you get free connection, or free air time, or a free handset," he says. "But you look at the cost model per customer that they have &#91;for 3G&#93; and you find it is potentially &#163;6,000 a customer. It's going to be painful to give that away for nothing."The conundrum is that, without the inducement, 3G networks may struggle.
Baruch Israel Hertz learned the hard way that practising what you preach has its down side. The chief executive of a US online trading company was forced to liquidate almost half his stake in the company this week after facing margin calls of $45m (&#163;28.4m).Mr Hertz, the head of Track Data, a financial information and trading firm, stacked up the losses during last week's 25% decline in Nasdaq. The margin calls from four different brokerage firms are understood to add up to one of the biggest made for an individual on Wall Street.Track Data has been one of the most aggressive advertisers for online trading in recent years. Mr Hertz himself appears on the company website to push "myTrack", its online trading service, by proclaiming: "You don't have to be a pro to trade like one."Mr Hertz was unavailable for comment yesterday but Rafi Reguer, the company's marketing director, said that the company had not been involved in the margin calls.The trading in "several large companies" was carried out in Mr Hertz's own account, he said. "The debt is entirely his own, and not an obligation of Track Data."
Two men who set up a hi-tech company in their garden shed could be worth up to &#163;40m each when their internet firm floats on the stock market.Kevin Grumball, 43, and his former lodger, Chris Barling, 44, started Actinic four years ago with &#163;80,000 in a hut used to rear poultry on land at their home near Stratford-upon-Avon, in Warwickshire.Their company is to be listed on the stock market with a value of more than &#163;250m.Mr Grumball and Mr Barling each have a 25% stake, but new share issues will push their stake down to 17%, leaving them a share value of about &#163;40m each.Actinic employs 40 people and provides website services, selling CDs that allow small businesses to set up their own e-commerce websites and credit check customers.Its 5,000 customers range from one-man businesses to bigger organisations, including the London Symphony Orchestra, Hasbro, the Royal Opera House and Fulham Football Club.Last year the company began operations in the US.
Telefonica of Spain quit the British auction of third generation mobile phone licences yesterday declaring that soaring bids had made the cost of entering the UK phone market unprofitable.Total bids for the five licences to be operated on the universal mobile telecommunications system yesterday reached &#163;21.1bn."With the UMTS licences in the UK at these price levels, Telefonica believes it would be difficult to make such an investment profitable and therefore regards other growth opportunities as more attractive and creating more value for its shareholders," the company said.Telefonica has already won a third generation licence in its home market and may look towards Germany, which is expected to be the next to sell such spectrum.On Friday, Telefonica pulled out of bidding for a GSM licence in Turkey.Six companies remain in the bidding in Britain. Vodafone battled yesterday with BT over licence B, which offers the most spectrum available to an established operator.Both companies networks are already working at capacity and require additional spectrum to expand their customer bases.BT bid up Vodafone for licence B, but Vodafone ended up with the highest bid yesterday at &#163;5.66bn.TIW, which is supported by Hutchison Whampoa of Hong Kong, offered &#163;4.38bn for licence A.The France Telecom-backed NTL Mobile bid &#163;3.76bn for licence C, One2One bid &#163;3.68bn for licence D and BT bid &#163;3.73bn for licence E.
Hitachi, the Japanese electronics company, announced plans yesterday to increase sales from internet-related business four-fold to 900bn yen a year (&#163;5.3bn) by 2003.Hitachi's president, Etsuhiko Shoyama, said in Tokyo that a new company would be launched next week to oversee net-related business in such fields as customer management and encryption technology.Hitachi will also offer on line services to the financial, manufacturing and distribution industries, as well as to schools and colleges, and the government.The subsidiary, Hitachi netBusiness, will be capitalised at about 400m yen, and will receive investment worth 30bn yen over the next four years.Hitachi is a relative latecomer to the already crowded online commerce industry. Two of its biggest rivals - Fujitsu and NEC- both own established service providers, along with Sony, are among Japan's core internet stocks. In February, Toshiba said it, too, intended to expand its information technology business.Shoyama was unperturbed by yesterday's ructions on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, which saw huge drops in the value of IT stocks listed on the Nikkei index."I don't think the stock price movements reflect uncertainty over the IT and Internet business," Shoyama said. "IT will continue to progress in Japan."
Europe's largest internet flotation got away to a comfortable premium yesterday despite the continuing market turmoil over hi-tech shares.Shares in T-Online, the internet service provider owned by Deutsche Telekom, were offered in Frankfurt at &euro;27 (&#163;16.26), opened at &euro;28.50 and closed at &euro;37.50.The company's ability to buck the market trend stemmed mainly from the very low price that Deutsche Telekom was asking for the shares.The former German telecommunications monopoly originally hoped to be able to sell 10% of T-Online for &euro;50. But institutional shareholders balked at the price.The price range was then lowered to &euro;26 to &euro;32 a share. The collapse in the new-tech share bubble then forced the group to offer the shares at the lower end of the range, reducing its take from $3.1bn to $2.6bn.The offer, which had attracted widespread public interest in Germany, was 20 times oversubscribed.The gradual rise in the T-Online share price helped to steady the German stock exchange and restore a measure of public confidence in new technology stocks.T-Online is the world's largest internet service provider after America Online. It has 5.3m customers, against AOL's 23m, and is some way ahead of Britain's Freeserve.Ron Sommer, Deutsche Telekom's chief executive, called T-Online the "Daimler of the internet world".He said investors who did not get shares in the ISP would receive preferential treatment in an upcoming sale of new Deutsche Telekom shares.Yesterday Hans Eichel, the German finance minister, insisted that T-Online had a strong future."It has switched the track in the direction of expansion," he said. "The goal is to become strongly anchored in the international markets, especially in western Europe."He said Germany was poised to continue strong growth next year and reclaim its role as Europe's economic powerhouse."Next year, Germany has the chance to become the growth motor in Europe and Europe overall could take over from the United States as a growth engine," he added.Financial analysts were somewhat more cautious about T-Online's prospects, pointing out that ongoing deregulation of the German telecoms market would lead to new entrants eating into its market lead, while falling phone bills would further reduce its ability to generate profits.However the sale of T-Online shares, dubbed "the people's stock", has generated an unprecedented interest in new technology stocks among ordinary Germans.Surveys showed that about one in five Germans applied for T-Online shares.But Reinhild Keitel, from the German Institute of Private Investors, played down the company's suitability for private investors, most of whom are used to making long term investments in the country's top 30 blue chip companies."Most people expect a steady dividend payment to replace the interest payments from the savings account," he said."With T-Online, there is no dividend in sight. T-Online will also be far too volatile to be a people's share."The German share institute has estimated that more than 5m Germans actively trade in stocks.Millions more have been buying into equity investment funds as their faith in the federal government's once rock-solid pension scheme has waned.
MondayThis then, is my new home. A red V-reg Vauxhall Corsa, with a plastic Bugs Bunny on the dashboard, and Mozart in the tape machine. This will be where I spend most of my waking hours for the next five days.Tom Taylor doesn't allow me a moment's contemplation. "D'you think you can reverse out of this space?" he asks cheerfully, having come to meet me at Chester station. Tom Taylor is to be my instructor for the week. He's got controls on his side too, I notice with relief, trying to work out where reverse is. "The week ahead is going to be hard on both you and me," he tells me, sitting back as we judder out onto Chester's highways, and pausing to ease me away from a couple of menacing bollards. "I'm going to work you as hard as   possible for the first couple of days, then I'll start to ease off a bit on Wednesday, and hopefully, by Thursday, when you do your mock test, you'll be feeling pretty confident. But I warn you now, we'll both be knackered before it's all over."He's right, and if I'd thought about it all a bit more, I would have realised that a concentrated course was not going to be a week's relaxation. It seemed a brilliant idea to just get the bloody thing out of the way in one go, after years of people saying incredulously "You mean you can't drive at all!" A concentrated course meant I'd start on Monday, have my licence by Saturday, and not have to faff around with the practising and booking lessons bit that had always foiled me before. As I jerk to a halt at the traffic lights, and stall for the third time in 10 minutes, it begins to dawn on me that perhaps slightly more time to   absorb the bits and pieces of a pretty complicated activity might help. But sod reflection. Why have the windscreen wipers come on?Tom and I get on well: his slight resemblance to the dad in the Royle Family (with the same fondness for dodgy jokes) helps. He folds his hands over his tummy, and is totally relaxed: it doesn't seem to matter what I do (apart from some of my closer parked-car passes), nothing fazes him. Within a few hours of arriving, I'm stalling on a dual carriageway, instead of just stalling on a driveway. Ah, progress.TuesdayHaving spent Monday night strolling in a relaxed way round Chester I wake up in my little bed and breakfast full of energy. The Corsa seems like a familiar and welcoming place, and it turns out that I'm a natural at emergency stops.   "Perfect, that was, absolutely perfect," says Tom happily.I also seem to have a natural talent for reversing, even uphill. Trundling round the gorgeous little village of Ecclestone, my hill starts are truly horrible, but I can reverse up anything. Tom thinks it's got something to do with left brain/right brain balances, which is especially interesting because I've been reading Oliver Sacks and thinking about brains ever since I got here. I try to explain about this man whose sight was restored after 40 years of total blindness, and how hard he found it to adapt and make sense of what he was seeing, and how that reminded me of trying to adjust to using mirrors. But the car stalls, as usual when I start thinking about anything other than the clutch. Tom rolls his eyes and puts the handbrake on.But it's true, I do seem to be able to reverse much better than I can go   forward. We both consider the possibility of just going everywhere backwards. After a day of stalling at almost every junction I've come to, it has a certain appeal.WednesdayTom and I are both getting a little snappy with each other. "Use your bloody mirror," Tom hollers at me. "I did," I scream back, swerving round a car slightly more energetically than intended. "You just weren't looking." I always forget how much I hate being told what to do - it makes me very short-tempered indeed. Perhaps tiredness is also making me short-tempered. Yesterday's eight hours driving, after Monday's eight hours, have taken their toll. My shoulders ache, and I've got a funny nagging feeling in my left hip from pumping the clutch all day.Doing reverse parking in the   morning is fine but I've developed an infuriating habit of jerking my foot off the clutch in first. "There's that suspender belt again," says Tom, as we bounce out of a set of traffic lights, and then die on the turning. "I know," I snap irritably. Fortunately the Guardian photographer arrives for the afternoon, a very nice, calm man, whose presence makes us both behave ourselves. Although sensing him wincing from the back seat as I kangaroo hop through a green light is a little disconcerting - as is the hasty way in which he does up his seatbelt.ThursdayTom and I are going to kill each other soon. I think he feels that his career and the reputation of BSM depends on him getting me through, and as a result it's worse than being out with my dad. And the quiet suppers for one with a good book and a single glass of red wine that had so   much charm on Monday night are just boring now, especially as I'm desperate for someone to have a really good moan at.I take a mock test today, and am so ridiculously tense that the tester actually talls me to stop the car and please, please, please relax. I keep hearing Tom's voice telling me what I'm doing wrong, but once I've let go of that the driving is fine - things click. But I still fail the test on six counts: it's well and truly dawned on me that I'm going to fail again tomorrow.FridayI think we both feel a bit guilty for getting in such a snit yesterday. When Tom comes to pick me up this morning, he decides to take me off to the Welsh hills for a little run. The roads are beautiful - magical valleys and wonderful views, and my driving improves exponentially, the gears gliding up and down until   I start to feel like Mika Hakkinen. We get back to town (the test is at 2.30) both well-pleased and glowing with the fresh air. "You'll be fine, love" says Tom. "I know I've hammered you a bit this week, but you're a nice little driver, so don't worry too much." I find out later that he's told everyone in the office he thinks I'm going to pass.My stomach has bunched itself up, and I feel knackered at the same time. Tom waves me off, looking as nervous as I feel (I hope I don't let him down), and for the first five minutes, things seem OK. And then disaster strikes: one of my classic lurching gear changes means I lose control for a second. It's only a second, but that's long enough. I keep going, but feel so tired I can hardly sit upright. Eight hours of utter concentration on driving every day this week is making itself felt in every inch of my body.Tom looks so disappointed. I get a bit teary for a second, then pull myself together. We go for a quick lemonade together, slumping disconsolately in the pub, trying to cheer each other up, and I give him a bottle of whisky for thanks. "Now love," he says affectionately. "I want you to book your next test as soon as possible, and you're sure to pass this time." We say goodbye and hug, and I promise to let him know what happens. The cabbie who takes me to the station failed his first time, he tells me. Which makes me feel a bit better. But, he tells me thoughtfully, his wife passed. Bother.
