British prime minister David Cameron’s calls to stop tech firms from protecting their users’ information with encryption technology are “insane”, according to the man who once ran NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden’s secure email account.Ladar Levison, founder of the encrypted email service Lavabit, made his comments as Cameron lobbied Barack Obama to press US technology companies to give law enforcement greater access to encrypted communications, following the deadly attack on the Paris office of the magazine Charlie Hebdo. Before a joint press conference with Obama at the White House on Friday, Cameron said internet firms“have a social responsibility to fight the battle against terrorism”.Encrypted messaging services have become increasingly popular in the wake of the Snowden revelations. The latest versions of Apple and Google’s mobile operating systems are encrypted by default. Other popular messaging services such as WhatsApp and Snapchat also use encryption, and security experts are pushing for more.Levison, a leading proponent of encryption technology, joins achorus of criticswho have called Cameron’s proposals unworkable and dangerous.“David Cameron is insane if he’s serious about giving the government the capability to snoop on everyone,” said Levison, who shut his email service rather than hand over user data to US authorities.Levison said moves to allow government access to encrypted data would weaken safety online for everyone. “Think how much information has been stolen online already in the last year,” he said, referring to the hacks of Sony, Target and Home Depot. Creating “backdoors” for US or UK authorities would make the entire system more vulnerable, he insisted.“Encryption underpins the entire network of trust on the internet, from downloading applications to banking and software updates,” said Levison. “If you have to hand over the keys, you’d be well advised not to use some services,” he said.Related:Banning all encryption won't make us safer, no matter what David Cameron says | Trevor TimmLevison’s comments came as the Guardian published details of a newly uncovered 2009 document from the US National Intelligence Council that calledencryption the “best defence”for computer users to protect private data.The report warned that “almost all current and potential adversaries – nations, criminal groups, terrorists, and individual hackers – now have the capability to exploit, and in some cases attack, unclassified access-controlled US and allied information systems.”Despite the report’s conclusions – and the massive hacks of major companies – the increased use of stronger encryption techniques by tech companies since the NSA revelations has caused increasing tension between the US and UK authorities and Silicon Valley.Last November, the newly appointed GCHQ spy boss, Robert Hannigan, said USsocial media giants had become the “networks of choice” for terrorists. His comments came in the wake of criticism from the FBI director, James Comey, who said: “The notion that someone would market a closet that could never be opened – even if it involves a case involving a child kidnapper and a court order – does not make any sense,” said Comey.Leading up to his visit with Obama,Cameron has stepped up his calls for greater access to encrypted information. He said the UK “must not” allow means of communications that cannot be decoded by law enforcement. “The attacks in Paris demonstrated the scale of the threat that we face, and the need to have robust powers through our intelligence and security agencies in order to keep our people safe,” he said.“The rallying cry is that we have to stop terrorism. Everyone hates terrorism,” said Levison. “The only thing we hate more than terrorism is hurting children. Whenever they want additional authorities, these are the issues they put on parade,” said Levison.“It reminds me of that quote from Benjamin Franklin: ‘Those who surrender freedom for security will not have, nor do they deserve, either one.’”Chris Soghoian, the principal senior policy analyst at the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), said attempts by the the UK government to weaken encryption would face many hurdles.“The trouble is these services are already being used by hundreds of millions of people. I guess you could try to force tech companies to be less secure, but then they would be less secure against attacks for anyone,” he said. “I guess they could ban the iPhone or say you can’t use Google’s services in the UK – but that wouldn’t go down well.”Soghoian said encryption was used every day by people to pay bills online and make withdrawals from cash machines, and attempts to weaken it would have fundamental consequences. “It suggests that Cameron or the people advising him do not understand technology,” he said, adding that the initiative was likely to fail. “They haven’t even been able to get them to pay their taxes,” he said.
The Simpsons are set for a new starring role in Minecraft, but for now, only in the versions of the game available on its new parent company Microsoft’s Xbox 360 and Xbox One consoles.Microsoft and Twentieth Century Fox have teamed up for official The Simpsons content packs for Minecraft’s Xbox editions, which will launch in late February as downloadable content for the games.Players will pay $1.99 for the pack, which besides Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa and Maggie will also feature 19 other characters from the popular animated sitcom.Microsoft has told owners of Minecraft on other platforms – PC, PlayStation devices, smartphones and tablets – to “stay tuned” on availability for their devices. The companypaid $2.5bn to buy the game’s developer, Mojang, in 2014.“We have an active community of more than 17 million die-hard Minecrafters on Xbox Live enjoying the wide range of downloadable content on Xbox, and they have been clamouring for us to bring Simpsons characters to the game,” said Microsoft’s Xbox chief Phil Spencer.The Simpsons are not the first brand to launch officially-sanctioned add-ons (or “skin packs”) for Minecraft. Star Wars, Doctor Who, Marvel Avengers, Mass Effect, Skyrim and Halo areamong those available for Xbox Onealready.In December, meanwhile, publisher DC Thomsonlaunched a Minecraft mod for its Dennis and Gnasher characters, originally made famous in comic The Beano.Minecraft has been downloaded 100m times on various devices since its launch as a PC game in 2009. This month, Mojang announced that the game’s Pocket Edition for smartphone and tabletshad reached 30m sales.When Microsoft announced that it was buying Mojang, Spencer promised to continue maintaining Minecraft on non-Xbox and PC platforms “in all the ways people love today, with a commitment to nurture and grow it long into the future”.Its deal for The Simpsons suggests that from now on, Xbox players will be getting first dibs on prominent new content packs for the game.That said, another upcoming spin-off – adventure game calledMinecraft: Story Mode– has already been confirmed for release on PlayStation, Mac and mobile devices as well as PC and Xbox.•Interview: Mojang talks Hollywood plans, YouTube and Minecraft books•Minecraft YouTube videos have been watched 47bn times
Police have arrested an 18-year-old man over involvement in the cyber-attacks on Sony’s PlayStation Network and Microsoft’s Xbox Live gaming services over Christmas, for which the Lizard Squad hacking group claimed responsibility.The man was arrested on Friday in Boundary Street, Southport, on suspicion of computer hacking, threats to kill and “swatting” –a new kind of prankbeing played on celebrities in the US including Tom Cruise that sees an armed police or Swat team turn up on the doorstep.Computers and other electronic devices were seized during the arrest by officers from the two UK cybercrime units working in conjunction with the US Federal Bureau of Investigation.Craig Jones, head of the South East Regional Organised Crime Unit’s (Serocu) cyber division said police were still in the early stages of an investigation working closely with the FBI to identify further people involved in the attacks.“This investigation is a good example of joint law enforcement cooperation in relation to a type of criminality that is not restricted by any geographical boundaries.“We are pursuing cybercriminals using the latest technology and working with businesses and academia to further develop specialist investigative capabilities to protect and reduce the risk to the public,” said Jones.Deputy chief constable Peter Goodman, national policing lead for cybersecurity at the Association of Police Officers, said: “This is a significant arrest … of a UK citizen suspected of engaging in serious and organised cybercrime on the national and international stage.”“This arrest demonstrates that we will pursue those who commit crime with the false perception they are protected within their own homes or hiding behind anonymous online personas,” Goodman said.This is the second arrest made by police in the UK involving the Lizard Squad hacking group.A 22-year-old manarrested by police investigating cyberfraud offencesin 2013-14 at the start of January was linked with the attacks on the PSN and Xbox Live. The unnamed man from Twickenham was arrested in a similar raid on his home by Serocu before being released on bail.The Lizard Squad, described as “a band of young hooligans” by independent security researcher Brian Krebs, has been linked with a series of high-profile distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks.These attacks prevent legitimate users of services such as Sony’s PlayStation Network from connecting to them by bombarding them with bogus connections, overloading the service and effectively taking it offline often until the attack ceases.The grouprecently launcheda DDoS tool that could allow anyone to conduct similar attacks on targets of their choosing, costing between $6 (£3.85) and $500 per attack paid via the bitcoin cryptocurrency.
Elon Musk has put his money where his mouth is, donating $10m to an AI research institute earmarked for a global research programme aimed at keeping AI beneficial to humanity.The money will be used to support the goalslaid out by the more than 100 AI researchers in early January, when they signed an open letter put out by the Future of Life Institute (FLI) calling on scientists to avoid AI “pitfalls”.“Here are all these leading AI researchers saying that AI safety is important”, said Musk. “I agree with them, so I’m today committing $10m to support research aimed at keeping AI beneficial for humanity.”The money will be used to support research around the world, and distributed through an open grants competition which will begin taking applications on January 22. The plan, the FLI says, “is to award the majority of the grant funds to AI researchers, and the remainder to AI-related research involving other fields such as economics, law, ethics and policy.”“Anybody can send in a grant proposal, and the best ideas will win regardless of whether they come from academia, industry or elsewhere”, said FLI co-founder Viktoriya Krakovna.Some of the research priorities are aimed at avoiding a Terminator scenario, where a superintelligent AI turns on its creators – but the majority is more prosaic, intended to boost the reliability and acceptability of artificially intelligent software across fields.For instance, the FLI warns thatself-driving carsneed better ethical underpinnings before they can hit the streets, and that the economic case for replacing large sections of the workforce with robots ought to be subject to more scrutiny.
Serial entrepreneur and real-life Tony Stark,Elon Musk, has pledged to build a test track for his ambitious Hyperloop high-speed public transport system in Texas.The five-mile track will be built to test the feasibility of running a full length track between Los Angeles and San Francisco, which would allow people to travel between the two US west coast cities within 30 minutes. Such a journey would be five hours shorter than the time it would take to drive.“Will be building a Hyperloop test track for companies and student teams to test out their pods. Most likely in Texas,” said Musk via Twitter. “We are also thinking of having an annual student Hyperloop pod racer competition, likeFormula SAE.”The privateer space pioneer originally unveiled his plans for the Hyperloop transport system in August 2013, posting rough plans and an outline of how the system would work produced by engineers from SpaceX and Tesla.The Hyperloop would consist of a long elevated tube with a near vacuum, which would reduce friction and allow specialised aluminium pods to hurtle along it at up to 800 miles per hour carrying people and cars. The system was inspired by the pneumatic tubes used to transport mail around some buildings.Why Texas?Musk has struggled to generate good will in Texas. The state is one of only a few that bans the sale of Tesla’s electric cars through its direct retail outlets, something Musk has failed to change. They Hyperloop test track could be a way of incentivising Texas legislators to alter rules over direct sale to allow Tesla to sell cars in the state.Critics have doubted Hyperloop’s viability, questioning how a partial vacuum can be maintained in the tubes at any useful length under real-world conditions including temperature variations. Acquisition of land to build the tubes is also a challenge to overcome, especially when connecting two large urban areas such as Los Angeles and San Francisco.Musk has stated that he is not willing to build a complete Hyperloop system and would be looking for a third-party, be that government or another company, to take on the responsibility of building and running the transport mechanism.•Elon Musk unveils plans for Hyperloop transport system•This is what a ‘rapid unscheduled disassembly’ looks like•Is California’s Hyperloop train closer to reality? Startup CEO has ‘no doubt’
This week saw Game of Thrones star Maisie Williams star in Cyberbully: a thriller detailing the pitfalls of being a teen online.In the hour-long drama, teen Casey Jacobs sees her digital life unravel before her at the hands of an anonymous hacker who claims to defend victims of cyberbullying.Guardian Guide’s Filipa Jodelka wrote of the show:Casey, who seems no more awful or wonderful than any other teenager, uses the internet as most teenagers do: equal parts pith and naivety. She makes derisory videos mocking vloggers and relishes the chance to hack into an ex’s Twitter account (“Erectile dysfunction makes me bitter. Please pray for me and my pathetic penis” – 10/10 for vengeance tweeting, there). Her online mischief is encouraged, it turns out, by the deception of an anonymous vigilante posing as a friend via instant message, who goes on to hold Casey hostage with the threat of uploading compromising videos and pictures lest she agrees to their every command. And all apparently with the aim of helping victims of cyberbullying, possibly the worst superhero MO since Unlawfully Parked Motor Vehicle Man.According to Channel 4, everything in Cyberbully was inspired by“dozens of real-life cases”.In a behind the scenes video for Channel 4, Williams said: “Trolls on the internet I encounter all the time.“As soon as someone finds something that you’re insecure about or that bothers you, they will use that against you. Which is awful.“It’s easy to say, it’s just a troll, they don’t know you, that’s OK. But it does hurt.”With that in mind, we’d like to know if you have been affected by cyberbullying. When did it happen? How did you resolve the situation? And what advice would you give to someone in a similar position?Note: We’re only able to publish contributions from young people who are over the age of 16.You can submit your stories and pictures by clicking on the blue ‘contribute’ button on this article or you can download the freeGuardianWitness appif you have a smartphone.Alternatively, you can use the form embedded below if you would prefer.•GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
Love it or loathe it, Google Glass has been one of the most interesting developments in wearable technology in the past four years. I finally got the chance to wear a set for a whole week late last year: but is it any good?Glass has been an expensive experiment for Google. It was produced under the guise of an “Explorer Programme” – a prototype that needed real-world testing to cement which features worked and which didn’t beyond the isolated world of Silicon Valley.In theory, crowd-sourced testing is a great idea, but in practice it has highlighted Google Glass’s biggest issue: social rejection.Last year at the world’s largest electronics trade show, International CES in Las Vegas, Google Glass was everywhere. It had just been released on general sale in the US after a year-long invitation-only period. It was expensive at $1,500 a pop, but at one stage I felt like I was the only person in a queue for an event that didn’t have Google Glass strapped to my face.Fast forward to January this year with CES 2015 and things had changed. Glass was almost nowhere to be seen. The people who were wearing Glass, I could count on one hand – despite the smartglasses being freely on sale in many places, including the UK. Those that wore them were the diehard geeks and they were looked on with suspicion by the rest of the convention-going tech enthusiasts.If the early adopters, technology-obsessed and future-gazers of CES aren’t wearing Glass anymore Google has a problem.Google Glass went on sale in the UK for £1,000 in June with a range of frames designed to look like normal glasses.Photograph: John Minchillo/Associated PressIn my week with Glass I wore them full time, from the moment I got up in the morning to the moment I went to bed. I enjoyed wearing them, but those around me did not.Related:Google Glass review: useful – but overpriced and socially awkwardWearing them on the commute saw fellow train passengers seem visibly distressed by what, to them at least, seemed like something that could invade their privacy – a head-mounted camera that could be recording them without their knowledge. A few even asked me to take them off despite my insistence that their fears were unwarranted – constantly recording video and snapping photos would destroy the battery in a matter of minutes.The situation was worse with my family and friends, but for a different reason. Most of the people surrounding me outside of working hours are not technology enthusiasts. They are regular people, with regular interests and aren’t early adopters.While some were accepting of me wearing them in their presence, others flat out refused to be seen with me while I was wearing them. It wasn’t because they were worried that I would record them; I could do that with my smartphone just as easily.To many people the face is the most important part of their self-image. Having something that was so obviously a gadget on my face was more embarrassment than they could manage.Social rejection is something many new gadgets have to overcome in their pursuit of mainstream adoption. The mobile phone with a camera faced a similar weariness for fear of constantly being recorded or caught in the act of something private, stupid or anywhere in between.Eventually, as all smartphones had cameras, that fear was overcome. The same thing could happen for Glass. But the other major thing hold Glass back has to be solved before that’s even remotely possible.What can you actually do with it?Perhaps Glass could help Prince Charles remember everyone’s name?Photograph: Paul Chiasson/APGlass lacks a killer app. That is to say, beyond notifications within the field of view and having a camera always ready, there is no feature that will draw people in and make Glass invaluable to everyday life.Third-party apps are growing, but no developer, Googleor otherwise, has cracked it yet. Many critics of smartglasses have stated that for the general consumer there is no hope, but for industries and tasks where hands-free information is a must, there’s a chance.I feel that with the right apps, the right frame of mind and the right device smartglasses can take off, but Glass wasn’t quite there in its “Explorer” form.Shrink the technology, make it less conspicuous and last longer, and most importantly make it cheap enough to be within the price of a cheap smartphone and you might have a winner. No one is going to buy a £1,000 device that makes them look like an idiot to their friends and family.Whether Glassgraduating from Google’s moonshot X Labunder the control of the father of the iPod Tony Fadell, who joined Google when his smart home companyNest was acquired, is enough to make that happen remains to be seen. I have my fingers crossed, at any rate.•Tesco launches shopping app for Google Glass smart eyewear•Intel trains sights on Google Glass with $25m investment in Vuzix
Private spaceflight company SpaceX has released new pictures of its Falcon 9 rocket attempting to land on a floating platform in the Atlantic Ocean before undergoing what its chief executive, Elon Musk, euphemistically referred to as “RUD” – that’s “Rapid Unscheduled Disassembly”.In other words, it blew up.The intention was to land the nearly empty first stage of the Falcon 9 rocket on the ship (labelled, in suitably grand terms, the “autonomous spaceport drone ship” by the company). Typically, the first stage of rockets are single-use, splashing down into the ocean after they’ve burned out and experiencing damaging atmospheric burn on the way down. The Falcon 9 was instead intended to control its descent with left-over fuel and hydraulically operated fins – and it nearly did.Unfortunately, according to Musk, the rocket used up too much of its hydraulic fluid, which meant it lost control just before hitting the deck of the drone ship. The results were explosive:@ID_AA_CarmackBefore impact, fins lose power and go hardover. Engines fights to restore, but …pic.twitter.com/94VDi7IEHS&mdash; Elon Musk (@elonmusk)January 16, 2015@ID_AA_CarmackRocket hits hard at ~45 deg angle, smashing legs and engine sectionpic.twitter.com/PnzHHluJfG&mdash; Elon Musk (@elonmusk)January 16, 2015@ID_AA_CarmackResidual fuel and oxygen combinepic.twitter.com/5k07SP8M9n&mdash; Elon Musk (@elonmusk)January 16, 2015@ID_AA_CarmackFull RUD (rapid unscheduled disassembly) event. Ship is fine minor repairs. Exciting day!pic.twitter.com/tIEctHFKHG&mdash; Elon Musk (@elonmusk)January 16, 2015Musk revealed the pictures, rescued from the video cameras onboard the ship, in a conversation with videogame programmer John Carmack, currently the chief technical officer of VR company Oculus. It’s perhaps that that encouraged Musk to use an acronym, RUD, which might be unfamiliar to most rocket scientists, but significantly more recognisable to some gamers.The term originated on forums for discussing the game Kerbal Space Program, a gruellingly difficult simulation which tasks players with building spaceships and getting them to orbit (and, eventually, landing on other celestial bodies). While it is somewhat easier than real spaceflight, the game still refuses to pull punches, and perhaps as a result, its fanbase has been forced to come up with a fair few euphemisms for “my rocket blew up”.Musk revealed his love for Kerbal Space Programin a Q&amp;A in Reddit,joking(or maybe not?) that SpaceX uses the game for testing its software.Not to be out-done, one Kerbal fan went andbuilt a working replicaof the Falcon 9 in-game – and successfully landed the first stage:This article was amended on 12 March 2015. The Falcon 9 rocket was attempting to land on a floating platform in the Atlantic Ocean, not the Gulf of Mexico as originally stated. This has been corrected.
Congratulations to Google Glass: productionmay have been halted on its current form, but it will return – and this time as a fully fledged product.Graduating from the company’s R&amp;D division, Google X, to proper product status, and coming under control of Tony Fadell, widely seen as the father of the iPod, is a huge vote of confidence from Google.It all points to Google’s desire to make Glass a genuine consumer-focused gadget, rather than the niche-interest product which appealed to the “explorers” who were prepared to pay £999 to be fancy beta-testers.But there remain several big hurdles Google needs to clear before it can realistically sell its smartglasses in scale.1) The image problemGoogle didn’t see the insult “Glasshole” coming, according to the Wall Street Journal. “The word Glasshole was a surprise to me. None of us had thought about that,”a former Google X executive told the paper.And because the company couldn’t guess that some people might abuse the possibilities presented by a face-mounted camera and screen, it was also unable to counter the perception thateveryGoogle Glass user was, in some way, potentially a bit of an arse.That means that before the company can sell new versions in large quantities, it needs to ensure that it’s got an answer to that perception.2) The other image problemYou don’t look cool when you’re wearing a Glass. The company’s been beset by mocking stereotypes, from cringeworthy photos of Glass-laden tech influencers such asRobert ScobleandMarc Andreessento on-the-nose satire like theMinorities Wearing Google Glass tumblr(a blank page), and none of that is going to change until cool people wear it. And cool people aren’t going to wear it until that changes.Worse, even Google’s own staff don’t seem to be eating their own dogfood. Sergey Brin, the company’s co-founder, is happy to wear the device out and about (leading to viral photos of him in glass on the New York Subway), but others aren’t so keen. Take a look at any given Google exec speaking on stage, and odds are they won’t be wearing the device – which is a problem for something which is supposed to be the birth of “ubiquitous computing”. If Google’s own staff are worried that Glass means that they won’t be taken seriously, what should the rest of us think?3) The battery lifeAmong current Glass explorers, the number one complaint is that the glasses just don’t last long enough. The need for a slim profile means that the battery pack is necessarily tiny, and there’s no easy way to make the device last longer without making that pack bigger.One possible trade-off would be to make the same decision that Apple has taken with its own wearable device, the Apple watch, and limit the next generation of Glass to being an exclusively tethered device. Currently, it can connect to a phone via bluetooth, or to wifi network for phone-free use. Losing the latter option, and limiting the device to low power bluetooth, could be the crucial difference between having to recharge it midway through the day, and making it to bedtime without a problem.4) The, yes, but WHY?!But at its heart, the next stumbling block for Google is to answer the question on everyone’s lips: what’s the actual point of Google Glass? With its limited stock, and thousand-pound price tag, the device has so far only had to market to the sort of early-adopters who have faith that a wearable computer is the obvious next stage in human development.But to become an actual hit, rather than a niche interest, the company has to convince normal people that they need access to a low-res screen in the corner of their eye every waking second. And that’s a hard sell.
It’s Friday! (Sorry slight delay as I’m on a train.)
The best-selling games of 2014 have been revealed in the UK and US – and to no ones’ great surprise, blockbuster brands like Grand Theft Auto V, Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare and Fifa 15 dominated the year.In the UK, figures provided by Chart-Track show Fifa 15 as the biggest seller of the year. The long-running football sim series sold 2.66m copies in the UK in 2014, according to the Entertainment Retailers Association, with Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare coming in at 1.84m.The top 10 includes more familiar brands like Far Cry and Assassin’s Creed, but new titles Destiny and Watch Dogs also performed well:1. Fifa 15 (EA)2. Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare (Activision)3. Grand Theft Auto V (Rockstar)4. Destiny, (Activision)5. Watch Dogs, (Ubisoft)6. Minecraft: Xbox Edition, (Microsoft)7. Fifa 14 (EA)8. Far Cry 4 (Ubisoft)9. Call of Duty: Ghosts (Activision)10. Assassin’s Creed: Unity (Ubisoft)Thecomplete top 100shows that Ubisoft has the most games in the chart, followed by Electronic Arts. The modest performance of Nintendo’s Wii U shows in the fact that the machine’s highest placed games, the critically acclaimed Super Smash Bros and Mario Kart 8, appear at 28 and 30. There are interesting anomalies too, including EA’s four-year-old skateboarding sim, Skate 3, sneaking into the chart at 69. The game became hugely popular with YouTubers like PewDiePie due to its erratic physics, leading to an unexpected boost in sales.Meanwhile, in the US, sports sims fared well with Fifa, Madden and NBA 2K15 all making it into the top 10. Here, though, it was Call of Duty that led the pack:1. Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare (Activision)2. Madden NFL 15 (EA)3. Destiny (Activision)4. Grand Theft Auto V (Rockstar)5. Minecraft (Microsoft)6. Super Smash Bros. (Nintendo)7. NBA 2K15 (2K)8. Watch Dogs (Ubisoft)9. FIFA 15 (EA)10. Call Of Duty: Ghosts (Activision)Both sets of figures are based on physical retail sales only, meaning that boxed copies are counted, but not digital downloads. In the US, figures provided by NPD show that boxed game sales are falling: in 2014 they dropped 14% to $5.47bn.There was good news for consoles though: NPD found that hardware sales in the US in 2014were up 20% on 2013, thanks to growing interest in the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 machines.
One of the best things about being a “millennial” is not having to care about anything that existed longer than five seconds ago. Hence the reason why I don’t know who Paul McCartney is and why I have no idea what I ate for breakfast yesterday. Also, if Nicki Minaj doesn’t tweet in the next thirty seconds I will assume she is dead. I’m perfectly “within the demographic”.So when I found out that theInternet Archivehaduploaded over 2,400 free “MS-DOS Games”to its collection, I said holy shit, look at the cute retro style of these things. It’s just like Minecraft if they made it even more retro and also 2D. It’s as if the creators of these “classic” games copied the style of 2011 indie hit Terraria, but like, made some of them adventures and some of them shooters.Recently, the Guardian asked me to take a look through the collection and pick out my favourites. I cannot wait to give these games seven out of ten while shrugging apathetically. Let’s dig in.Shadows of MordorThis text parser game seems like a lo-fi ripoff ofMiddle Earth: Shadow of Mordor, a 3Dhemo eroticgay orc dating simulator, possibly made by social justice warriors.Although the software library claims this Lord of the Rings text game was made in 1987, it is clear to me that someone like Braid’s Jonathan Blow probably made it last year to maximise on retro aesthetic cred, perhaps using Twine, an open-source text game engine that it isnow fashionable to hate.Among Shadows of Mordor’s innovations is its impatience with the player. When you don’t input something, the game quite frankly gets on with it without you. This really appeals to the attention deficit part of me while also highlighting what’s wrong with games these days: the controller sits there waiting for your input to slice an orc’s bollocks off when it could just bloody well get on with it itself.This text adventure also doesn’t patronise the player with any “3D graphics”. Instead, it occasionally displays what looks like a Powerpoint slide of the “artist’s impressions” and the rest of the time you use the “graphics engine of the mind” to fill in Tolkien’s dullard hilltops full of short people.Rating:I give this short attention span game at least ten selfies out of five Drake/Nicki Minaj fanfics. For you old people that is “quite good”.Tongue of the FatmanPC Gamer calledthis crap, “certainly the worst [game] starring an overlord who Jabba the Hutt makes a point of forwarding his Weightwatchers pamphlets to when he’s finished laughing”.Even ignoring the fat-based jokes, Tongue of the Fatman is a 1989 fighting game that is so poorly balanced and unresponsive that it is practically unplayable. You can bet on yourself to earn money and then upgrade yourself if you win, though winning seems unlikely.However, as a millennial, what appeals to me is the amount ofstuffin it. There are about a million exotic and pointless items to purchase to bosh your opponent over the head with, including needle claws, force fields and some sort of electro-balls. It’s exciting. We millennials never get to purchase things because some bankers took all the money.Rating:Four Lady Gagas out of two.The Politically Incorrect Adventures of Gewt NingrichThis game concerns the protagonist, ‘Gewt Ningrich’, running about killing nice things like polar bears (with an uzi), seals (with a club), Greenpeace protesters (with a battleship-mounted gun), and the internet (with some sort of… forcefield?). It says 1997 on it, but that can’t be right because the target of this biting satire is a clueless conservative who hates seals and the internet, and those guys are still around.In any case this game is very edgy because it is well known that gamers today do not want politics to appear anywhere in their games, so kudos to the developers for actually making a game that seems to try to make both rich old people and entitled young people feel alienated at the same time.Rating:Six Gewts out of none.Where In The World Is Carmen SandiegoSince I began doing what an arsehole like me might call “travel games journalism”, people keep saying “Where In The World Is Cara Sandiego” to me as if it is a joke a millennial might get. I can finally state that no, I had never heard of Carmen Sandiego before you made the joke, because frankly I only give a shit about selfie sticks and weed.In actuality, the 1985 detective gameWhere In The World Is Carmen Sandiego, a popular franchise created to teach geography to kids, is quite good. It’s a game of deduction and elimination, and is quite a bit more informative than infamous stabbings-through-history simulator Assassin’s Creed, which usually features only one exotic country at a time: this game boasts many countries. Also, you don’t have to do any stabbing to get to the next plot point, suiting my millennial impatience.Controversially, Where In The World Is Carmen Sandiego stars a woman criminal traditionally depicted in a rather fetching wide-brimmed hat. Recent video games have shown an aversion to giving large narrative roles to women characters, and also a large aversion to giving protagonists such fetching hats. For these reasons, Where In The World Is Carmen Sandiego was probably a very polarising game back in 1985 and its hero was presumably the Rhianna of the era.In any case, good work Carmen. Nice hat.Rating:Fifty hats out of eight.Floor 13The last in my browser treasure trove isFloor 13, a Richard Branson-funded and sublimely understated turn-based spy game. We cannot really be sure it was not made by current indie darling Lucas Pope, designer of last year’sPapers, Please, but we’ll take the Internet Archive’s word it was made in 1992 by PSI Software Designers.I suspect it may be more modern than it wants us to notice because in true millennial game designer fashion, it is extremely strident about how the Government Is Evil And Is Running The Media, whilst also entertaining goofy ideas about how probably everything is also run by the Illuminati and/or Total Dicks Who Harsh Everyone’s Buzz.The idea is that you manipulate democracy so that you can stay in power, checking polls every turn to see how you’re doing. You can do this in a multitude of ways, through surveillance, searches, disinformation, intimidation and infiltration, all of which are little check boxes on a form that remind you how cold and uncomfortable the actual act of giving orders is.The best thing about this game is that it neatly simulates the detached bureaucracy a totalitarian government would have to put in place to actually control things, making you increasingly aware that this might be why governments recruit such boring rich people.Happily it does also make you aware that real life Britain would not be so perfectly controllable due to the belligerence of our arsehole citizens. For example, someone would definitely spray-paint a penis on your surveillance van and at least some of your establishment thugs would rather take a tea break or put a bet on a horse than go round and rough up a hoodie.Actually, it’s quite good for a spreadsheet game.Rating:I score it two Branson beards out of bangers and mash. You know, because it’s British.You should check out the amazing yet slightly jankyInternet Archive of MS-DOS Gamesfor yourself before evil corporations who hate young people realise they can make actual money selling these products. Keep it dense, yeah? Peace and gaming.
Google is to stop producing its wearable technology Google Glass in its present form, but is still committed to the idea of smart glasses, the company has said.The technology, which delivers news, messages and calls directly to a user’s field of view, has been on sale in the UK since June, and in the US since 2013.In a statement posted to its Google+ account, the company said the Glass team would move out of the “Google X” incubator labs and become a separate division under current manager Ivy Ross.Related:Google Glass review: useful – but overpriced and socially awkwardShe will answer to Tony Fadell – the chief executive of Nest Labs, the home automation company Google bought for more than $3bn (£2bn) last January - but will have autonomy to run the project, Google confirmed.The company said that the Glass Explorer programme, which closes on 19 January, was “a kind of ‘open beta’ to hear what people had to say.”“As we look to the road ahead, we realise that we’ve outgrown the lab and so we’re officially “graduating” from Google to be our own team here at Google,” the statement continued. “You’ll start to see future versions of Glass when they’re ready.”The company has given no specific date for when the next version of Glass might be available.
Online news site BuzzFeed’s initial growth may have been fuelled by social networks Facebook and Twitter, but its next frontier is likely to be messaging apps like its latest partner, Viber.BuzzFeed has launched a “public chat” channel within the app, which is owned by Japanese internet giant Rakuten, and which hasmore than 209 million monthly active users.BuzzFeed’s journalists will post links to stories within the channel and chip in to the discussion around them.It’s part of thepublic chats feature that Viber launched in November 2014, initially focusing on celebrities including musicians Pixie Lott and Paul van Dyk, YouTuber Tyler Oakley and gossip blogger Perez Hilton.“We’re always looking for new channels to expand our reach and public chats is a great opportunity to give Viber’s worldwide audience a way to discover and engage with BuzzFeed’s latest news, lifestyle, and entertainment content,” said BuzzFeed’s product lead for growth and data, Ben Ronne.Viber is not the first such partnership for BuzzFeed. In October 2014, itinked a deal with Chinese messaging app WeChat, inviting its 400 million-plus users to follow BuzzFeed’s account to be sent “one or two of the most viral things on the web” each day.WeChat and Viber may soon be joined by another high-profile messaging app as a partner for BuzzFeed. In November, it wasnamed as one of the media companies in talks with photo and video messaging app Snapchatabout serving stories to a new section of its app called Discover.CNN, MailOnline, ESPN, Comedy Central, Cosmopolitan, Spotify, Vevo, National Geographic, Vice and People magazine were the other media brands and digital services linked to the talks at that time.Those rumours and BuzzFeed’s confirmed deal with Viber reflect the desire of messaging apps to become media distribution platforms in their own right, as well as the interest of media companies in using those apps to reach a young, hyper-engaged audience.“Messaging is the new social media,” claimed Union Square Ventures’ partner Fred Wilson in ablog post looking back at technology trends in 2014, posted at the end of that year. “Families use WhatsApp groups instead of Facebook. Kids use Snapchat instead of Instagram.”It is thus no surprise to see companies like BuzzFeed that initially built large audiences through Facebook sharing looking for new partnerships with messaging apps.BuzzFeed has also been ramping up its efforts on YouTube, with its main BuzzFeed Videos channel ending 2014 with more than 4.2 million subscribers, and 1.3bn video views in that year alone.•Next for messaging apps: encryption, payments, media, ads
Brussels is to give its first detailed criticisms of Amazon’s favourable tax arrangements in Luxembourg on Friday in a move that may shed unwelcome light on the financial workings of the Grand Duchy under its former prime minister, Jean-Claude Juncker, who now heads the EU executive.Juncker’s predecessors at the European commission said in October they were investigating sweetheart tax arrangements between Amazon and the Luxembourg authorities in 2003. The investigation centres on suspicions that the deal amounted to illegal state aid or subsidies, distorting the EU single market.Margrethe Vestager, who became the new competition tsar in November, is to publish for the first time the 23-page document that was sent to Luxembourg in October. It sets out the grounds for suspecting that Amazon enjoyed illegal state aid in the Grand Duchy.Commercially sensitive sections are being omitted from the document, which is likely to result in more information being gathered on Luxembourg’s tax practices under Juncker.The Amazon case is especially sensitive as Juncker was very vocal intaking much of the creditfor persuading the online retailer to build a centralised European hub in the Grand Duchy in 2003.Vestager, a former deputy prime minister of Denmark, is known to favour a tough line and a more level playing field for company tax in the EU. She has pledged to carry on the Amazon investigation and to extend her questioning of government tax rulings for multinationals to all EU member states.How the Juncker-led commission responds to the Amazon case it has inherited – and to further tax deals subsequently laid bare in the LuxLeaks scandal – is being seen as an early test of the credibility of the EU president, and the sincerity of his promises not to influence state aid inquiries, even if they stray close to uncomfortable areas of his past.Amazon has consistently said it “received no special tax treatment from Luxembourg – we are subject to the same tax laws as other companies operating here”.Four years ago, Luxembourg alsoappointed Amazon’s head of tax, Bob Comfort, as the country’s “honorary consul for the Seattle region”, tasked with helping to attract US tech firms to the tiny European state. Comfort has since retired from Amazon.The Amazon partnership at the heart of the Luxembourg state aid investigation is understood to be Amazon Europe Holding Technologies SCS (AEHT). It receives hundreds of millions of euros in royalties each year under a licensing agreement with the online retailer’s main European trading business, Amazon EU Sàrl, also registered in Luxembourg.As a result of these heavy royalty costs, reported profits – and therefore tax bills – at Amazon EU Sàrl have for years been comparatively modest.Amazon EU Sàrl is the company with which millions of shoppers are transacting when they buy goods online in the UK, Germany, France and other European countries.It made sales of €13.6bn (£10.4bn) last year, but posted pre-tax profits of just €23.3m (£17.8m) after revenues were offset by large expenses, including €637m loosely described in the accounts as “primarily … charges related to licence agreements and royalties with third parties and affiliated undertakings”.Much of that is thought to be payments to AEHT, which in the same year received €557m in income from other Amazon group companies. Accounts for Amazon EU Sàrl show it owed AEHT €2.1bn at the end of 2013.InOctober Brussels said it“considers that the amount of this royalty, which lowers the taxable profits of Amazon EU Sàrl each year, might not be in line with market conditions”. It added: “The commission has concerns that the [2003 tax] ruling could underestimate the taxable profits of Amazon EU Sàrl.”The latest accounts for AEHT show that, from 2007 to 2013, the partnership received €3.31bn of income thanks to “agreements with affiliated companies”, though again Amazon EU Sàrl is not named. AEHT paid no tax in on resulting profits for the period, which totalled €1.928bn. That is because such partnerships are not regarded as tax resident in Luxembourg.Officials at the European Commission are not the first tax experts to dispute the profits in AEHT. American tax authoritieshave for years been claimingin the US courts that the partnership’s large profits have flowed from AEHT failing to pay sufficiently high sums for controlling European licensing rights.These intellectual property rights ultimately reside in US-based Amazon companies, US tax officials claim, and the group has been under-charging AEHT in a way that has unfairly lowered the group’s US tax bill.Accounts from 2007 to 2013 for AEHT show the partnership paid out €1.58bn in “other charges”, again loosely described as consisting “primarily of charges related to agreements with affiliated companies”. It is this amount that US tax authorities claim is too low, though Amazon contest the allegation.European parliament leaders on Thursday deferred until next month a decision on whether to establish a full parliamentary inquiry into the tax affairs revealed by the Guardian and other newspapers in early November. The extensive disclosures showed hundreds of household-name international companies were taking advantage of Luxembourg’s generous tax rulings.A parliamentary inquiry would be highly unusual. But the Greens in the parliament succeeded this week in mustering 194 signatures in favour, more than the quarter of MEPs needed to lodge a request for a probe.Christian and social democrats in the parliament, the two biggest caucuses of centre-right and left, have effectively formed a “grand coalition” behind Juncker and were reluctant to expose the commission chief to too much scrutiny. But dozens of them defected to join the Greens’ campaign, meaning Juncker’s activities are likely to be much more closely examined.While Juncker has strongly criticised the LuxLeaks revelations, Vestager has welcomed them and said she was looking at the thousands of documents as part of her investigation.Many of the leaked documents came from PriceWaterhouseCoopers, which has also acted as tax adviser to Amazon. The commission has also obtained similar documents on Luxembourg tax deals from the three other big auditing firms.Juncker came into office as commission chief at the start of November and was immediately swamped by the Luxleaks scandal. He did not appear in public for a week, but has promised not to interfere with Vestager’s investigation and ordered France’s Pierre Moscovici, the commissioner for economic and financial affairs, to come up with fast-track legislation on automatic information sharing between member states on tax rulings for big companies.
Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has defended his decision to condemn the recent terrorist attack on Charlie Hebdo magazine on free speech grounds, despite his company’s willingness to censor some content.Zuckerberg’s status update on 9 January promising “a service where you can speak freely without fear of violence” sparked a debate about Facebook’s own censorship, frombreastfeeding photostoa post by Pakistani actor Hamza Ali Abbassthat questioned the value of “insulting” speech.Unsurprisingly, the subject of his Charlie Hebdo post came up during Zuckerberg’slatest public question and answer session, held this week in Colombia where Facebook is launching its Internet.org initiative to get more people online.He was asked why he had spoken out about the Charlie Hebdo attack, but not about other violent events around the world, including in Iraq and Palestine.“It wasn’t just a terrorist attack about just trying to do some damage and make people afraid and hurt people. This was specifically about people’s freedom of expression and ability to say what they want,” said Zuckerberg.Although he took pains to stress that all terrorist incidents are “really horrible”, Zuckerberg said he spoke out about Charlie Hebdo because he saw it as an attack of freedom of expression, and so particularly relevant to Facebook.“That really gets to the core of what Facebook and the internet are, I think, and what we’re all here to do. We really stand up and try to make it so that everyone can have as much of a voice as possible,” he said.“There are limits and restrictions on these things, but across the board we generally are always trying to fight to help as many people as possible share as much as they want. This event just seemed like an event where people needed to come together not only to fight back against terrorism... but also to stand up for giving everyone in the world a voice.”‘In an ideal world there would be way fewer laws restricting speech’A follow-up question from a member of the audience at the Q&amp;A asked whether Facebook would break the law in countries where free speech is restricted, to defend those principles.“One of the big questions that we struggle with: in an ideal world there would be way fewer laws restricting speech,” he said. “The reality is most countries do actually have laws restricting one point of speech or another... So the real question is how do you navigate this?”Zuckerberg said that Facebook resists breaking the law in countries purely on a point of principle of defending free speech.“The real question we weigh is does that actually give more people the ability to express more things? And the problem is if you break the law in a country, then oftentimes that country will just block the whole service entirely,” he said.“Which then makes it that millions of people are now deprived of the tools that they were using to communicate with their friends and their family and to express as much as possible. So it becomes a very tricky calculus.”Zuckerberg said that Facebook tries to “push back” on requests to block content, reviewing every request to ensure it’s within the laws of that country.“I can’t think of many examples in history where a company not operating or shutting down in a country in protest at a law like that has actually changed the law. However, here are a lot of examples that I can think of where a technology operating in a place, whether it’s telephones or the internet, enables a lot of opportunities for people in those places,” he said.“The opportunity to stay connected to the people they love and their family and their friends, have business opportunities and growth in the economy and improvement in people’s lives. So I think overwhelmingly our responsibility is to continue pushing to give as many people the ability to share as much as possible.”Zuckerberg hit back at criticism that Facebook’s determination to stay operating in countries where free speech is restricted is more about the growth of its business, though.“Some people say we want to be operating in every country because it’s good for our business. I want to push back on that. The reality is we’re not operating in every country today. There are several countries we’re not in, and our business is doing just fine,” he said.“Believe me, we’re good. The reality is if we got blocked in a few more countries, that probably wouldn’t affect our business very much, so this is really about our mission and our philosophy, not about some kind of short-term business decision.”•Facebook at Work: social network unveils ‘pilot’ for companies
What did David Cameron actually say to spark the fuss?Speaking in the wake of the attack on Charlie Hebdo in Paris, David Cameron announced a range of anti-terror laws. In the process, he implied that the government would be cracking down on anti-surveillance techniques.“In extremis, it has been possible to read someone’s letter, to listen to someone’s call, to listen in on mobile communications,” he said. “The question remains: are we going to allow a means of communications where it simply is not possible to do that? My answer to that question is: no, we must not.”What’s the problem?There are a lot. For many, it’s simply a matter of principle: far from being unacceptable, the ability to have a conversation which the government can’t eavesdrop on is a crucial part of what it means to live in a democratic country.But for others, the issue is the apparent hole in Cameron’s technical knowledge which led him to believe that what he was suggesting was even possible.So what he asked for isn’t easy to do?It’s practically impossible.The government can eavesdrop on the post and phone calls because both of them rely on a trusted provider. You trust Royal Mail with access to all your letters, and in return it both keeps them safe from illegal eavesdropping, and hands it over to government authorities who make a valid legal demand for access.Modern encryption doesn’t work like that. It forgoes any need for a trusted third-party to carry your messages, instead relying on complex maths to ensure that it is impossible for anyone other than the intended participant to read it.There’s no way to give the government a way past those locks without also making it possible for any other attacker to walk in through the same back door – and that doesn’t just apply to communication technologies such as WhatsApp and iMessage, which are encrypted by default these days, but to everything from online banking to the very systems that Britain’s security services use to send state secrets back home.How did Cameron’s suggestion go down?Poorly. Security expert Graham Cluley said Cameron was in“cloud cuckoo land”, and tech start-ups said they would have to abandon the UK if his suggestions came to pass.One saidthat even the belief that it was a credible threat would “take the bottom out of internet businesses operating in the UK”.Perhaps unsurprisingly, Downing Street scrambled to back-pedal the comments. Guy Levin, the head of tech lobbying group Coadec, said he’d been told by Number 10 “that [the Prime Minister’s] comments are not about banning encryption.” Instead, he was told the remarks were about application of two existing laws, the Data Retention and Investigatory Powers Act (Dripa) and the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa), “and finding a way to work with [internet companies] to deliver on them.”Is that the end of it, then?Not by a long shot. While Cameron’s first attempt to use the Charlie Hebdo attack to crack down on tech may have been solidly rebuffed, the Prime Minister has an ally in the form of President Obama, himself smarting over the fallout of the Sony Pictures hack.The pair are meeting in Washington, and are expected to announce a combined security effort. But at the same time, Cameron won’t pass up the opportunity to lobby the American President for stronger tools, both legal and technical, to counter the normalisation of encryption in everyday life.
Social media users can relax: a new survey has found that people on platforms such as Facebook and Twitter do not experience more stress than digital refuseniks.However, social media users are more aware of stressful events experienced by their online friends, which has been described as the “cost of caring”.That is the conclusion of a survey of 1,800 Americans by the Pew Research Center, which refutes the idea that social media users experience more stress due to the “fear of missing out” - seeing friends posting about exotic holidays, nights out or other events.The research also found that women who use Twitter, email and share digital pictures on a daily basis score 21% lower on the stress measure used in the study compared with those who did not communicate digitally.‘Stress can be contagious’Prof Keith Hampton, a Rutgers University academic and one of the authors ofSocial Media and the Cost of Caring, said that writing emails, text messages and sharing pictures could give women an “easily accessible coping mechanism that is not experienced or taken advantage of by men”.The relationship between social media use and stress was complex, he added. “The social aspect of these technologies makes people more aware of stressful events in others’ lives. Learning about and being reminded of undesirable events in other people’s lives makes people feel more stress themselves. This finding about the cost of caring adds to the evidence that stress can be contagious.”Facebook was the platform that made both men and women more aware of stressful events in the lives of both close friends and more distant acquaintances, according to the study.A woman with an average number of Facebook friends and who shares pictures online is typically aware of 29% more stressful events in the lives of their closest friends and family than non-users of technology.Men who make an average number of comments on Facebook posts, send text messages and use LinkedIn are typically aware of 67% more stressful events than non-users.Lee Rainie, Pew director of internet, science, and technology research, said: “When users find out about really distressing things in their friends’ lives, it can take its toll.”The study asked participants about the extent to which they felt their lives were stressful using the well-established Perceived Stress Scale (PSS). It was conducted on both landlines and mobile phones in English and Spanish and comprised a nationally representative sample of US adults aged 18 and over.The research follows astudy published in Decemberwhich found that training older people to use social media improved cognitive capacity, increased a sense of self-competence and could have a beneficial overall impact on mental health and physical well-being.
“The Fire phone?” has been the stock response when I tell friends I’ve been trialling the Fairphone. “Did you say Fire phone?” Most are confused or curious.The Fairphone pitches itself as a first attempt at producing a more ethical smartphone.Theunethicalandunsustainablenature of the smartphone industry is well documented. Issues around child labour and poor working conditions in factories abound, along with the fact that the mineral components for phones are often extracted from conflict mines owned by unsavoury operators.The founders of Fairphone said from the word go that creating a totally fair phone would bea monumental task, because of the labyrinth of suppliers and companies involved. So far, only two of the minerals in the phone – tin and tantalum – come from conflict-free validated mines.Fairphone believe the only way to make a phone genuinely fair is through trying to incrementally produce one and to keep adjusting it while putting pressure on the supply chain. Its website shows behind the scenes of its journey, and it should be commended for trying to change the status quo.Distinct identityThe Fairphone is made of aluminium and recycled plastic.Photograph: FairphoneUnlike a lot of other black slab smartphones, the Fairphone has its own distinct identity. It looks and feels incredibly well made with no sharp edges or cheap bits.It’s made from aluminium and a recycled plastic, which felt solid and sturdy. It is a chunky 10mm thick, and heavier than most of the competition, including the 143g Moto G, but felt good in the hand with even weight distribution and fitted in a pocket without issue – no bending issues to report.The 4.3in screen is small by smartphone standards these days, which is fine by me, but it is also low resolution; most smartphones costing £250 have considerably sharper screens.With a pixel density of 256 pixels per inch (ppi) it is noticeably less sharp than the sub-£100 4.5in Moto G with its 326ppi screen, for instance. But everything is bright enough, with fun colours and animations.The touchscreen is very responsive, which is great in some respects, but because the keyboard is a bit smaller than the one on the iPhone, I made a few typos at first. I would have liked a stylus or a bigger keyboard.One of the best bits about the Fairphone is that it is built to be repairable. The iFixit app, which has how-to guides for repairing or replacing parts, is installed out of the box. The handset comes apart and goes back together very simply and there are a variety of replacement parts available.Fairphone front and back with a two-tone colour scheme.Photograph: FairphoneSpecificationsScreen:4.3in LCD 540x960 resolution (256ppi)Processor:1.2 GHz quad-core MediaTek MT6589RAM:1GB of RAMStorage:16GB plus up to 64GB microSD cardOperating system:Android 4.2.2Camera:8MP rear camera, 1.3MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:3G, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 3.0 and GPSDimensions:126 x 63.5 x 10mmWeight:163gOlder AndroidStandard microUSB port for charging, but a power adapter is not included in the box.Photograph: FairphoneThe Fairphone runs a slightly modified old version of Google’s Android 4.2.2 Jellybean – three versions behind the latest Android 5 Lollipop. Fairphone hasn’t promised any updates to Android, just to its own software. Google’s Android is also not open software, which is disappointing.Fairphone’s notable additions to the standard Android experience include a last used and most used app page, which is useful, as well as a “Peace of Mind” widget, which will mute notifications and calls for a set period of time using a slider.I loved the vibrant graphics and branding when I switched it on, and the way the whole home screen changes colour to show how much battery life the phone has left.The phone is more or less app free out of the box other than a radio player. But all the million-plus standard Google apps from Google Play are available of course. And on the whole, launching apps and moving between screens was quick and simple.Weak battery lifeThe Fairphone has a dual-Sim and a removable battery.Photograph: FairphoneThe MediaTek processor at the heart of the Fairphone is not very powerful compared to the competition. It should be fine for running most simple apps, but it may struggle with some more demanding apps and games. Scrolling around large web pages the phone can be a struggle with the default web browser.The battery life was nothing to shout about. It lasts a day of normal use. I used it for a couple of short emails, a couple of videos and texts and a 30 minute call and had about 15% of battery left at the end of the day.Many of the Fairphone’s competition, including the Moto G, will last two days of average use, while some can last as many as three days between charges.The Fairphone can take two mobile phone sims, so two numbers and two mobile phone plans can be used at the same time, which is useful for combining work and personal phones or when traveling. The clarity when making a phone call was superb on both sides.CameraThe Fairphone has an 8-megapixel camera with a few notable features, including panoramic shots, multi-angle-pictures and smile recognition. Photos in good light are fairly detailed, but nothing to write home about. The 1.3 megapixel front camera struggles in low-light – selfies in darker surroundings didn’t come out well.PriceThe Fairphone is only available in the UK from the Phone Co-op, which uses EE’s mobile phone network. It costs £250 on a pre-pay plan or is available on various phone contracts.VerdictThe Fairphone is an average mid-range smartphone but it can’t really compete with the likes of the Moto G, which is less than half the price.But does that really matter if you are buying the Fairphone because of its aims? The ideal would be something that looks and works like an iPhone, but is made and sold by a company like Fairphone. And that’s unlikely in the near future at least.In the mean time, as long as something’s at least adequate, which the Fairphone certainly is, ethics win.Pros:ethical ambitions, good repairability, solid build, dual sim capability, different lookingCons:low resolution screen, average camera, poor front camera, no 4G, no Bluetooth 4.0Other reviews•Motorola Moto G 2014 review: the best all-round budget smartphone•Motorola 2013 Moto G review – previously the best budget smartphone is just £135•Motorola Moto E review – is this the best smartphone under £90?•Which is the best smartphone for less than £150?
Another television brand has joined the kids’ coding bandwagon, with Nickelodeon UK’s launch of a website calledCode-Itthat aims to teach programming skills to 6-12 year-olds.The site uses various characters from the network’s shows, including SpongeBob SquarePants and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, to help children learn and practise various coding tasks.While they will earn badges for their progress through the site’s set lessons, children will also be able to write their own programs animating the characters, and share them with their peers.“Through Code-It we hope to help kids enhance their coding skills in a fun and engaging way and give them an opportunity to create with their favourite characters,” said Nickelodeon’s digital director Suzie Adams.Nickelodeon joins several other TV brands that are trying to tie in to the recently updated computing curriculum in English schools, which includes programming for children as young as five.In May 2014, producerAardman Animations launched Shaun’s Game Academy- a website challenging children to create and share their own games based on its Shaun the Sheep show. The site used established kids-coding platform Scratch.In October,the BBC followed with The Doctor and the Dalek, a web game based on Doctor Who that featured a series of programming challenges, as young fans upgraded a Dalek character controlled by the Doctor.Other children’s brands that have dipped their toes in the coding waters include Angry Birds, whichlaunched a set of programming challengesas part of the Hour of Code initiative, and Moshi Monsters, which worked with build-a-computer startup Kano on abranded version of the Pong video gamethat children could change.The theory behind all these launches is that familiar characters and brands may help children take their first steps in programming without feeling intimidated, although for the brands, there is clearly also a benefit in being associated with a high-profile educational trend.•‘Great big poo balls!’ Making a Kano computer with your kids•Coding at school: a parent’s guide to England’s computing curriculum•Seven kids coding projects that crowdfunded their first steps
Imitation continues to be the the most sincere form of flattery after Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi borrowed from both Apple and Samsung in naming its new handsets.The new Mi Note (à la Samsung) and Mi Note Pro phablets (a la iPhone 6 Plus) from the world’s third-largest smartphone maker have high-end specifications, 5.7in screens, metal construction and curved glass on their fronts and backs.They form part of a bold plan by Xiaomi’s bullish chief executive Lei Jun tobecome the world’s top smartphone manufacturer, overtaking Apple and Samsung in the next five to 10 years.Jun’s target for the Mi Note was clear: the iPhone 6 Plus, which was used in comparison shots during the unveiling, leading Jun to mock the camera lump on the back of the Apple device.Now Lei Jun mocking the iPhone 6 Plus camera bump.pic.twitter.com/KwH8sICoDr&mdash; Ben Thompson (@monkbent)January 15, 2015The “Chinese Steve Jobs”, as Jun is commonly called, hit out at critics including Apple’s Jonathan Ive.Jun boasted of the number of patents the Chinese company has filed and its level of innovation, going as as far as displaying a patent awarded for the camera on the Mi Note.The camera, despite its sub-7mm thickness, is flush with the body of the phone and does not bulge beyond the case like cameras on Apple’s iPhone 6 and Samsung’s Galaxy smartphones.In complete contrast to Apple, Samsung and most other major smartphone manufacturers, Xiaomi took the unusual move of specifically naming the manufacturers of the individual components within the new phablets.‘The phone as the centre’Jun made a big deal of how the Mi Note had a Sharp-made display, a Sony-made camera, a Philips two-tone flash and a Sony or LG-made battery. The move is an attempt to instil confidence in the device with potential customers outside China who may never have heard of Xiaomi, clearly targeting a western audience.The Mi Note has a 5.7in full HD screen, a 13-megapixel camera and runs a forked version of Android, while the Mi Note Pro has Qualcomm’s latest 64-bit processor and a higher resolution 2K screen, similar to the Samsung Galaxy Note 4.Following Samsung’s announcement that it was surging head-on into the Internet of Things and chief executive BK Yoon’s pledge to have every one of its products connected within five years, Jun laid out similar plans.“We are going to connect all of the smart devices with the phone as the centre,” said Jun, also announcing a media streaming box that connects to a TV.Xiaomi has struggled to sell its devices outside China, facing bans in the key emerging market of India due to challenges from Ericsson over patent infringement.Despite Jun’s claims of Xiaomi’s innovation and new patents, it remains to be seen whether the Mi Note will face similar obstacles outside China.Samsung declined to comment.•Apple to Xiaomi: being number one is easy to say, more difficult to do•China rising: Xiaomi becomes world’s third biggest smartphone manufacturer
As failsafe methods of predicting sales of a new device go, asking people whether they will buy it despite the fact that they don’t know full pricing details is one of the riskier options.Even so, that’s the method behindBusiness Insider’s claim– based on a survey by Credit Suisse of recent iPhone buyers – that as many as 35m people will want to buy an Apple Watch in its first year on sale.The survey found 18% of people who bought an iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus say they will “definitely” buy an Apple Watch, which Business Insider says indicates 35m first-year buyers.If Credit Suisse’s belief that Apple will only make 20m of the smartwatches that year is true, that is plenty of disappointed people – although also potentially a large group of frustrated consumers for rival smartwatch makers to target.At the device’s launch in 2014, Apple said pricing will start at $349 (£229), but with several models available, further details of more expensive models have yet to be announced.More tangible are details of the Apple Watch’s official companion app, which leaked out as Apple launched the beta version of its iOS 8.2 software for iPhone and iPad, which includes support for the new device.9 to 5 Mac reportedthat the app will manage apps on the smartwatch, as well as how notifications and push alerts are presented on it. The app will also control whether owners of the watch responding to messages use voice-to-text transcription, or simply send the audio clips.According to leaked screenshots of its companion app, the watch’s fitness features include reminding its owner to stand up if they’ve been sitting down for the first 50 minutes of an hour, and notifications when they reach their preset daily moving, exercising and standing goals.Another aspect about the Apple Watch that has yet to leak out are Apple’s policies on advertising on the device, with mobile advertising firmTapsense announcing a software development kit for an Apple Watch ad platform, before clarifying that Apple has yet to provide guidelines on whether it will be allowed.•Will Apple Watch spark a wave of popular games? Not so fast...
The violent shoot-’em-up game Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number has in effect been banned in Australia after the county’s classification board refused to award it an age rating.A report filed by the board andseen by gaming news site Kotaku, highlights a particular scene in which the lead protagonist appears to punch and then sexually assault a female character. According to the classification report, the victim is pinned down during the sequence and is depicted struggling. It is not clear how much of the scene is interactive.Onthe Australian Classification Board website, the title features a “refused classification” icon, and generic explanation: “The computer game is classified RC in accordance with the National Classification Code, Computer Games Table, 1. (a) as computer games that “depict, express or otherwise deal with matters of sex, drug misuse or addiction, crime, cruelty, violence or revolting or abhorrent phenomena in such a way that they offend against the standards of morality, decency and propriety generally accepted by reasonable adults to the extent that they should not be classified.”Hotline Miami 2, which follows a hitman carrying out assassination missions for various gangland bosses, has already been the subject of games industry controversy. A similar sexual assault scene was depicted in an early demo, exhibited at gaming events in 2013. In that version, however, the sequence cut before the assault began, and it became clear that the scene was depicting a pornographic movie production.However, many journalists and event attendees found the scene disturbing, and developer Dennatonstatedthat it would reconsider its inclusion in the game.It is not clear yet whether other classification organisations will come to similar decisions. The Australian board has a history of intolerance toward video game violence, and has demanded cuts from titles such as Saint’s Row IV, Grand Theft Auto IV and South Park: Stick of Truth. In December, the Australian retail chains Target Australia and KMartpulled Grand Theft Auto V from their shelvesafter asuccessful petitionfrom a consumer group which objected to the game’s depiction of violence toward women.Hotline Miami publisher Devolver releaseda statement on the certification decision, criticising the Australian board for “stretching the facts” in its description of the scene.After pointing out that players will be able to choose at the start of the game whether or not to experience content “that alludes to sexual violence”, the company claimed that elements of the contentious sequence had been exaggerated in the board’s report.The statement reads: “We are concerned and disappointed that a board of professionals tasked with evaluating and judging games fairly and honestly would stretch the facts to such a degree and issue a report that describes specific thrusting actions that are not simply present in the sequence in question and incorrectly portrays what was presented to them for review.”The statement goes on to state that Devolver will not challenge the ruling, but that the publisher “stands by” the developer and their creative vision.
Wearing an Oculus Rift virtual reality headset while driving? That’s unlikely to end well. But Toyota’s new app for the device aims to raise awareness of the dangers of “distracted driving” when motorists are safely off the road.Unveiled at the Detroit Auto Show, the TeenDrive365 application is pitched as a “distracted driving simulator”, challenging people to drive safely amid distractions from virtual text messages, passengers, radio and traffic noise.Toyota has installed the software and Oculus Rift hardware in a stationary car on its stand at the show, with visitors able to virtually drive using the car’s wheel and pedals, while experiencing the results of their focusing skills on the headset’s screen.The app is part of a wider campaign to promote awareness of distractions while driving, which Toyota launched in late 2013. The company is planning to take the VR version on tour to automotive shows across the US in the coming months.“Oculus Rift provides a virtual reality driving experience that mirrors real life behind the wheel, giving us a powerful, one-of-a-kind way to show parents and teens how everyday distractions can affect their ability to drive safely,” said Toyota’s corporate marketing director Marjorie Schussel as the app launched.TeenDrive365 is one of a growing number of applications being developed for Oculus Rift that go beyond the device’s roots in gaming, frommusic-making apps for physically-disabled childrentoapps that relax nervous patients in hospitalsorhelp treat post-traumatic stress disorder in soldiers.The headset’s maker, Oculus VR, wasbought by Facebook for $2bn in 2014. So far, Oculus Rift is only available in editions for developers, but the company ishoping to launch its first consumer model by the end of 2015.•Oculus Rift – 10 reasons why all eyes are back on virtual reality
BlackBerry and Samsung have both denied reports that the companies have held merger talks.News of the talks, first reported byReuters, sent shares in the troubled Canadian smartphone maker up by almost 30% in New York on Wednesday, although the stock was down 16% in morning trading on Thursday following the denials.BlackBerry said it had “not engaged in discussions with Samsung with respect to any possible offer to purchase BlackBerry” and would not make any further comment.A Samsung spokeswoman said: “Media reports of the acquisition are groundless.”Patent portfolioThe South Korean company’s interest in BlackBerry is thought to centre on the Canadian company’s strong presence in the corporate smartphone market. The vast majority of Samsung handset sales come in the consumer market, where profit margins have been eroded by fast-growing competition from Chinese manufacturers in particular.Samsung is also interested in BlackBerry’s portfolio of about 44,000 patents, worth some $1.4bn, although some analysts believe their true value could be considerably higher.Edward Snyder, managing director of Charter Equity Research, said Samsung would need to bid for the whole company because BlackBerry did not want to sell specific assets: “Samsung will have to buy the whole thing and then and shutter what they don’t need.”Shares in BlackBerry were trading at US$10.56 on Thursday, valuing the company at about $5.5bn. Samsung is understood to be prepared to bid as much as $15.49 a share, which would value the Canadian group at about $7.5bn.Analysts have target prices of between US$7 and US$10 for BlackBerry shares.Regulatory concernsSamsung would face a number of hurdles to winning control of BlackBerry, such as Canadian government approval of a takeover by a foreign company.Washington DC would also be concerned because BlackBerry manages the email traffic of government and military agencies as well as thousands of large corporate customers. A deal is likely to require approval by the committee on foreign investment in the United States.A deal would also require the blessing of Prem Watsa, whose Fairfax Financial Holdings is a major Blackberry shareholder. Fairfax declined to comment.In November BlackBerry announced a partnership with Samsung that would link BlackBerry’s security platform with the South Korean company’s own security software for its Galaxy smartphones.Samsung’s KNOX software for security-conscious business customers has not proved popular, unlike the well-regarded BlackBerry equivalent.KNOX is also based on Google’s Android operating system, which the South Korean company is trying to reduce its reliance on.On Wednesday Samsung released a long-delayed smartphone based on its ownTizen operating system, but doubts about whether it will prove popular with consumers abound.•Back to the future for the BlackBerry Classic
How can I make my PC completely secure from any type of virus and hacking?JuzerYou can’t, because of the old computer industry phenomenon known asPEBCAK, or “Problem exists between chair and keyboard”. A lot of hacks depend on “social engineering,” which means manipulating people into handing over their passwords or other details. It can be as easy as phoning up and pretending to be from head office or, apparently, trading passwords forbars of chocolate. Linux and Mac OS X are more secure than Windows, but PEBCAK is a problem with every operating system.You could equally well ask, “How can I make my house completely secure?” Some simple precautions will protect you from casual theft in a nice neighbourhood, but not even bars and barbed wire will stop a gang equipped with explosives to blow your doors off. So, the real problem is to decide how much security you need. This will depend on who you are and where you live.Who? In computing, you need a higher level of security if you are an obvious target or you have access to very valuable information. Obvious targets include celebrities, activists, and investigative journalists. You may also have valuable information if you work in finance, or at an important research establishment, or for some government agencies, etc.Where? In computing, you create your own neighbourhood. If you visit sites that specialise in hacking, cracking or pirate software, then you’re at much more risk than if you only visit mainstream sites for shopping and social networking. Sites that offer free music, software or pornography are more likely to be dangerous than ones that offer the paid-for equivalents. Remember, if it’s free, somebody is probably making a buck somehow, even if it’s just by installing adware.Standard defencesIn protecting your home, the first rule is: don’t leave doors unlocked and windows open. In protecting your PC, it’s: don’t leave security holes open. Keep the operating system and all your software up to date. The vast majority of Windows hacks are based on exploiting holes that Microsoft closed months or even years ago. Yes, sometimes there are “zero day” exploits for which there is no patch, but these are worth a lot of money and mainly used on high-value targets.To keep Windows up to date, turn on auto-updates: Microsoft will install patches on or shortly after the second Tuesday of each month. However, recent versions of Windows, if patched, are no longerthe main target. As a priority, you must also make sure your browser (including IE), all Adobe and Apple programs for Windows, and Oracle’s Java are up to date. Uninstall Java if you don’t really need it. Indeed, uninstall everything you don’t need: it will reduce your attack surface.Several programs can help. I use Secunia’sPersonal Software Inspector, which checks for unpatched programs and helps update them. I also use SlimWare’sSlimCleaner, which checks and rates your software (it should all be Good), and lists programs that need updating. It also packs in lots of other useful tools including a cleaner, a disk analyser / defragger / wiper / shredder and duplicate file finder, and a Hijack log.You should also run anti-virus software. Many people use the built-in Microsoft Security Essentials or Windows Defender. Those who need something heavier can install a free program such as Avast 2015 or AVG Free. If you require more complete security, install a paid-for suite such asKasperskyorBitdefenderTotal Security 2015. See my earlier answer,How can I protect my Windows PC against malware?, and check some recent tests before deciding.Beyond anti-virus, it’s worth running the occasional check for hidden rootkits using Kaspersky’sTDSSKiller.Browser protectionThe web browser is your interface to the net, and therefore most likely to be attacked. Most leading browsers are reasonably safe, if kept updated, and Google Chrome may well be the safest. Although Chrome has thehighest number of vulnerabilities, they get patched quickly, and it has a “sandbox” to help insulate it from the rest of your PC. Attackers therefore need two exploits: one for the Chrome browser and one for the sandbox. If you need more security, you can run any program in its own sandbox, usingSandboxie.Gizmo’s Freeware also suggests usingDropMyRightsto reduce the damage that malware can do while you are surfing.UseQualys BrowserCheckor a similar website to check that all your browser plug-ins are up to date.Most online attacks use JavaScript, so you can increase security by turning it off. Unfortunately, a lot of websites and most web-based apps use vast gobs of JavaScript, so this may be impractical, but using NoScript (orperhaps ScriptSafe for Chrome) allows you more control over where scripts run. Either way, turn offcross-site scripting. I also useGhostery, but that’s more for privacy and ad-blocking than security.For high-risk users, perhaps the ultimate protection is to sandbox all your computing by using a transitory or virtual machine. The simplest way to do this is to boot a new operating system from a Live CD or USB thumb drive – typically Linux but it could be Windows – and then dump the whole thing afterwards. WithReturnil SystemSafe, you can spawn a clone of your current operating environment and discard it when you’ve finished with it. Some people use “virtual PC” programs such as Oracle’sVirtualBoxfor the same purpose.Incoming threatsAny computer that’s online will find its ports being scanned from other computers, some of which will be worms (viruses), and some of which may be human attackers. It’s therefore important to have a firewall, and the one built into Windows 7 and 8 is good enough for most users. If you want more protection, there are plenty of alternatives, and you may already have bought one as part of a security suite. If not, read Gizmo’s guide to theBest Free Firewall Protection.Your PC must have some ports open to connect to the net, but all your ports should be closed or “stealthed”. Run a firewall test atAuditMyPCor GRC (Shields UP) etc. NirSoft’s tinyCurrPortswill tell you which ports your PC is currently using, if you want to check for suspicious activity.Being naturally suspicious, I run SysInternal’sProcess ExplorerandTCPView, andGlassWire, to watch what my PC is doing, but this is too much to expect of normal home PC users.For very high-risk users, or corporate networks, the ultimate protection is to use a separate PC or server as aDMZ(demilitarized zone). However, your PC is probably behind a NAT router that does network address translation between the external internet and your internal network, and thisprotects against a lot of inbound traffic. Of course, it’s important to make sure your router is protected by a strong password, not any default it may have shipped with. Also, if it’s a wireless router, your Wi-Fi must be set up to use WPA2 (Wi-Fi Protected Access) encryption for security. The old WEP (Wired Equivalent Privacy) system can be cracked in minutes.To sum up: most ordinary Windows users should be fine with Windows as shipped, if all its defences are turned on and all software is kept up to date. If you’re at risk, you can install programs that increase the level of security. After that, the biggest risk is social engineering, even if it’s just getting you to click something you know you shouldn’t.People who need a high level of protection may find it worth following more of the tips outlined above, but if you’re being targeted by GCHQ or America’s three-letter agencies (or the Chinese or Russian equivalents), then you’ll need to take even more drastic steps.Have you got a question? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
Facebook users have been warned to avoid clicking on links promising leaked photos from messaging app Snapchat, with security firm BitDefender claiming they arelikely to be the work of cyberscammers.Posts promising “10 Hottest Leaked Snapchats Ever” accompanied by a photo of a topless woman have been popping up on the social network, but they lead to websites where the surprises are anything but saucy.“Fraudulent websites promoting snapchat leaks and other ‘viral’ content could lead to identity fraud and financial losses,” said BitDefender’s chief security strategist Catalin Cosoi.“Victims are usually subscribed to money-making surveys, and redirected to scams promising electronics or amazing diet pills. Bitdefender advises users to be suspicious of videos, Snapchats and pictures ‘leaked’ online, particularly on Facebook.”The company says the 10 Hottest Snapchats posts have become the second most popular cyberscam on Facebook in 2015, behind only the now-familiar “check your top profile visitors” scams that proliferated on the social network last year.The Hottest Leaked Snapchats scam has been spreading on Facebook.The current Snapchat scam leads to websites including TrendingUSA, ViralTruck, ViralDips and FunChoke, which BitDefender says it has now blacklisted within its antivirus software.It is no surprise to see leaked Snapchat photos being used as bait in this way: the app was at the centre of a high-profile leak of photos and videos in October 2014, which wasdubbed “the Snappening”.That particular leak was the result of peopleusing a third-party service to access Snapchat, without realising that their images and videos were being stored there, and thus vulnerable to being stolen.Facebook’s popularity – it has more than 1.35 billion active users – have made it an increasingly popular hunting ground for cybercriminals hoping to lure people to external websites, then steal their data and/or install malware on their computers.Fromtools claiming to find out friends’ passwordsandprofile colour-changing appstowebcam stripteasesandfraudulent Audi R8 giveaways, there has been a succession of scams targeting Facebook users. In 2013, Italian security researchers claimed thatspam links alone were earning the spammers $200m a year.•It’s been a great year! Thanks to these Facebook scams...
The skies may be increasingly busy with consumer drones in the coming years, but if one group of developers has its way, some of them will be plummeting to earth unexpectedly.MeetRapere: an “intercept drone” designed to hunt down nearby drones, hover overhead and drop a tangle-line into their rotors, forcing them to crash.Its makers, a group of drone-industry veterans, have only released simple diagrams of how the device will work – above – and claim they are in talks about mass-production while continuing to develop Rapere.“We’ve collectively never come across any bogus use of drones. However it’s inevitable that will happen, and for people such as celebrities, where there is profit to be made in illegally invading their privacy, there should be an option to thwart it,” explains their website.It adds that once it takes off, the Rapere will scan the sky for nearby drones before pinpointing one – “it can tell the difference between a bird and a drone” – disabling it and then returning to base to have a new tangle-line fitted.“It won’t be cheap like a DJI type drone. It will be priced as a professional tool – we don’t want this to become a toy people can use to disrupt legitimate drone use,” explain the developers, who promise they will try to avoid such abuse.“We have a number of ideas, such as requiring disclosure of ownership with the local police department before we will ship the drone,” explains the site.“Buyers will need to be qualified. We’re not sure exactly yet, but we will require some sort of proof of legitimate use, such as public safety officials, event organisers, private security firms, etc.”Drone-industry veterans have released diagrams of how the device might attack drones like this, the Phantom 2 Vision+ dronePhotograph: Kin Cheung/APRapere should probably be giving Kanye West’s security team a call: the musician spoke out in 2014 about his concerns over paparazzi-owned drones while testifying in a lawsuit filed against him by a photographer.“Wouldn’t you like to just teach your daughter how to swim without a drone flying? What happens if a drone falls right next to her? Would it electrocute her?” said West,according to TMZ.“Could it fall and hit her if that paparazzi doesn’t understand how to remote control the drone over their house?”Rapere claims its device is legal, although whether use of it is legal “depends on how you plan to use it, and where you live”.There are likely to be a number of risks for users of the device, including lawsuits from owners of disabled drones if they are damaged as they fall to the ground, not to mention any people or property that they crash into.A lively discussion in the comments section of its site is already debating the legality of Rapere, as well as the claim that it is fast enough to catch rival drones, as its makers promise. With no video footage yet available, those claims are hard to prove.“There are a few things that are obvious in the video about how to pull this off, that we don’t want to give away,” explained Rapere in response to one question.“However, when we’ve figured out how to manufacture these things, and who to sell them to, under what conditions, then we’ll go public with video. Getting too much exposure now would be a waste as we haven’t got a product.”•CNN hopes to soar once more with news-gathering drones
Nintendo has revealed updated versions of its 3DS and larger 3DS XL handheld gaming consoles. They’re officially named as New 3DS and New 3DS XL.New 3DS will feature a slightly larger screen than the current versions. BothNew 3DS and New 3DS XLboast improved stereoscopic 3D visuals, extra controller buttons and compatibility with the company’s amiibo figures.During its latest Nintendo Direct presentation, which was shown online on Wednesday, the veteran manufacturer also announced a range of forthcoming games including Pokémon Shuffle, which will be available for free download from the online 3DS “eShop”.A spin-off from the multimillion-selling monster battling series, Pokemon Shuffle is a “match three” puzzler like Candy Crush Saga, in which players must line-up three or more of the same critters to clear them from the screen. Nintendo has confirmed the game will include in-app purchases.Pokemon Shuffle is Nintendo’s latest experiment with free-to-play mechanics; last February, itreleased Steel Diver: Sub Wars, a multiplayer battle strategy game. In another experimental move, the company also announced Mario vs Donkey Kong: Tipping Stars, the latest title in the platforming series, available on both 3DS and Wii U in March. However, players who purchase the game on one system, will receive it free for the other – a “cross-buy” model also used by Sony with selected PlayStation and Vita titles.Gaining controlThe New 3DS systems feature a C Stick, a small analog stick on the right side of the fascia to allow more complex movement in 3D games. There are also two extra shoulder buttons – ZR and ZL – on the outer edge.The machines also add near-field communications (NFC) capabilities, meaning new games will be able to support the Nintendo amiibo figures, which can interact with the onscreen action – like the Skylanders and Disney Infinity character toys.In a move that may anger current 3DS and 3DS XL owners, the New versions also feature upgraded processors. Certain forthcoming titles, including newly announced role-playing adventure Xenoblade Chronicles 3D, are only compatible with the refreshed systems.Both the New 3DS and New 3DS XL will be launched in Europe on 13 February, to coincide with the release of much-anticipated titles Majora’s Mask 3D and Monster Hunter 4 Ultimate.According to news site VideoGamer, New 3DS will be priced at £150 in the UK, with the New 3DS XL at £180 ($200 in the US). Various bundle deals will be available.
Eleven years after the release of Mean Girls, the biting high-school satire is being reinvented as a mobile game by aptly-named developer So Much Drama.The game, which will initially be released for Apple’s iPhone and iPad, is being pitched as a “tiara defence” title – a reference to the tower defence genre that has proved popular on smartphones and tablets.The developer, which has previously made two mobile games for celebrity RuPaul, is promising that the characters and settings from the original film will make it into the Mean Girls game.“Mean Girls is hilarious, brutal, and endlessly quotable; I absolutely loved watching and re-watching the film,” said founder Jeff Meador.“The game is rich with the quirky humour, over-the-top high school power struggles, and everything from hilarious lines, peppermint foot cream, to, yes, the Burn Book.”What remains unclear is how the game will make money, although the dominant business model on the app stores is “freemium” where games can be downloaded for free, and make their money from in-app purchases of virtual items and currency.Is an 11 year-old film really a recipe for riches on modern mobile devices? Actually, So Much Drama may be onto a smart thing: the teenagers who made Mean Girls a hit in 2004 have grown up to becomeone of the keenest groups of mobile gamersa decade later.Much of that is down to games appealing to men and women equally, rather than games specifically targeted at women. However, mobile games publishers are making more efforts to look beyond traditional action-film and sports licensing deals in order to attract a wider audience.In 2014, theKim Kardashian: Hollywoodfreemium mobile game was a lucrative hit for its publisher Glu Mobile,grossing $43.3m of revenues in its first three months, with Kardashian rumoured to have struck a deal earning her 45% of its net profits.•Why is Kim Kardashian: Hollywood so popular?
It’s Thursday everyone!
With a looming showdown over net neutrality bumping up against his internet-heavy State of the Union address, President Barack Obama continued his weeklong dance with telecommunications giants on Wednesday in Iowa, unveiling plans to challenge state laws that limit the expansion of high-speed broadband access.The ambitious plan aims to make small US towns more powerful economic players by cracking laws that benefit major internet service providers. Obama praised the “visionary move” of the city of Cedar Falls to upgrade its broadband network, a move that has angered the major telecoms companies. But Obama showed no signs of backing down in pushing for an expansion of cheaper and speedier access – but also more competition.“In too many places across America, some big companies are doing everything they can to keep out competitors,” Obama said. “Today I am saying we are going to change that. Enough is enough.”After privacy advocatespushed back on cybersecurity measures announced by Obamaahead of Tuesday’s speech before Congress, open internet advocates are already pleased with the president’s plan to write a letter to the Federal Communications Commission, asking the agency to look at how it can undo restrictions on municipal internet service.Large telecommunications companies have aggressively lobbied to rein in the growth of these smaller providers.In 19 states, these efforts have proved successful, with laws in place to block, or slow the growth of, municipal internet service providers.Holmes Wilson, co-director of the nonprofit digital rights advocacy group Fight for the Future, told the Guardian that Obama’s broadband rollout is a “a wonderful and obvious step”.“These prohibitions on municipal broadband were passed lightning-fast through state legislatures with tons of AT&amp;T and cable company money behind them and they are blatantly anti-public,” Wilson said. “If the town wants to get together and try to do better than the local internet provider, why on earth would you want to stop that?”One of those municipal providers, Cedar Falls Utilities, is hosting Obama’s speech on Wednesday. Cedar Falls (population 40,000) is one of several small towns that have made fast internet a priority in an effort to attract businesses and economic prosperity, like White House-touted efforts in Kansas City, Missouri, andChattanooga, Tennessee.Obama’s plan aims to alleviate the pilot-program problem: too few cities with so much internet power.While medical researchers in Chattanooganow have the ability to efficiently build complex digital models to inform surgeons, sharing that information to cities with weaker broadband systems is laborious, if not impossible.City internet service providersin Chattanoogaand Wilson, North Carolina, have filed requests with the FCC to override state laws thatattempt to cap their growth. The FCC chairman, Tom Wheeler, indictated in June that he is interested in weakening these laws. “Giving the citizens of Chattanooga and leaders like Mayor [Andy] Berke the power to make these decisions for themselves is not only the right thing to do; it’s the smart thing to do,”said Wheeler.Along with this proposal, Obama is calling for a removal of all “unnecessary regulatory and policy barriers to broadband build-out,”according to a White House outline. A coalition of government agencies would attempt to speed up the implementation of these programs, though how much power such an entity would actually have is unclear.Obama is also calling for a national broadband summit in June, where community leaders would discuss the best practices for enabling fast broadband in cities. But a loomingvote on net neutrality rules expected in late Februarycould change that discussion.In early November, Obama announced that he strongly opposed efforts by telecoms companies to get online “fast lanes” for customers that pay more for internet. FCC watchers expect a vote to fall somewhere between, in an effort to keep telecom lobbyists at bay while offering an olive branch to open-internet advocates“We desperately need a net neutrality rule that says: if you are an internet provider, you have to treat all content equally,” said Fight for the Future’s Wilson. “Otherwise we are going to get local internet providers, local monopolies, using their market power to distort what people can do and say online and extract more money from customers.”Unlike two other partsof his cybersecurity-focused State of the Union previews, the White House said its broadband proposals would require little federal action and would not need congressional approval.On Tuesday,Obama unveiled a planto give the private sector more power to share information with government agencies. He said these moves are important to give companies the ability to respond to hacks, though privacy campaigners have warned that they could offer “broad legal immunity” to the government and private companies.The president book-ended that contentious proposal with the Wednesday broadband speech and an announcement on Monday about a plan toimprove consumer and student data securityprotections. The latter seeks to create a uniform system for companies to alert customers about data breaches and block how much information educational technology companies can share with advertisers.A video released on Tuesdayshows Obama, sans suit jacket, in the Oval Office, touting the expanded broadband initiative. “Every American should have options for better, faster broadband,” Jeff Zients, director of the president’s National Economic Council, said in a call with reporters on Tuesday.“More competition means better products and cheaper prices,” Obama said in Cedar Falls. “We do that with just about every product. We ought to be doing it with broadband.”
The price of one bitcoin has plunged by more than a quarter in just two days, prompting fears that the currency is in the midst of its fourth major crash.On Tuesday morning, the currency was being traded at $267 a coin on Bitstamp, the largest individual exchange. However, by late Wednesday afternoon that had collapsed to just $195 - a fall of 27%.The slide means that the currency has fallen by more than 80% from its record high of $1,150 reached in November 2013.Unlike that crash, and the two before it in the summer of 2011 and spring of 2013, this time the cryptocurrency has not been the victim of a speculative bubble that then popped. Rather, the price of bitcoin has been declining fairly consistently since June 2014, when it started falling after months of temporary stability at about $600 a coin.Greg Schvey, a partner at cryptocurrency data firm TradeBlock,told the New York Timesthat the new precipitous decline showed signs of a “squeeze” on bitcoin. “People have these very real fiat-based liabilities that they have to pony up for, and to do that, they’re going to have to sell Bitcoins,” he said.Hacks undermine confidenceThe bitcoin network runs on the processing power of “miners” - computers put to work solving algorithmic puzzles in exchange for rewards in the currency. Companies that have invested millions of dollars into building specialised server farms have come to dominate the mining process, and received their share of the rewards.But Schvey suggests that the real money those companies borrowed to start operating were beginning to be called in, forcing them to sell some of their proceeds that they may otherwise have held on to in the hope of a recovery in the price of bitcoin.Further, the cryptocurrency has been shaken by yet another attack on the infrastructure that enables it to function as a working economy. Bitstamp reported a successful hacking attack in early January,which forced it to close its doors temporarilyafter $5.6m of bitcoin were stolen. While the attack was nowhere near as severe as that which took down the once-leading exchange, MtGox, last year, it still alarmed many.In the face of the slump, many bitcoin proponents are turning their attention to a more fundamental technology called the blockchain. Sitting at the core of the bitcoin currency, the blockchain is the concept that allows money to be traded on a truly decentralised basis, butsome arguethat its capability goes far beyond that. The comparison most often drawn is that if bitcoin is an application, such as email, the blockchain is more like the whole internet.That could prove to be merely wishful thinking in the face of an 80% collapse in the price of bitcoin.
British supermarket chain Tesco has launched a shopping app for Google’s Glass eyewear, with the aim of providing a faster way for people to add items to their online baskets within the company’s mobile applications.Tesco Groceriesis a free download for the £1,000 smartglasses, whichwent on sale in the UK in June 2014after a lengthy trial in the US.The app is controlled by speaking commands, either searching Tesco’s product database – “OK Glass, find a product: cheese” – or scanning barcodes on items that the shopper has in front of them.They can then browse nutritional information and add the items to their basket, although they will still need to use Tesco’s mobile app for checking out.The company’s plans for the app were originally revealed in June 2014, when it was still in prototype form.“We thought about how our colleagues might be able to use Glass to check stock hands-free, or how our customers might be able to add a product to their grocery delivery basket while making a cup of tea,”blogged Tesco’s Pablo Coberlyat the time.“Getting to that stage has been a journey into entirely new areas of user interaction: new gestures, user interface elements, and input mechanisms.”Seven months later, the app is available for Glass owners to try in the UK. In anew blog post, Coberly encouraged them to provide feedback on the app and additional features they’d like to see added.Coberly also praised Google for its work on Glass’ software development kit, to help developers and companies create apps for the smartglasses. “From a developers’ perspective, working with Glass has been a joy,” wrote Coberly.“The Glass Development Kit (GDK) documentation is good and getting better. The community is helpful and proactive about sharing knowledge, especially onstackoverflow.The Glass team at Google does all they can to try to make sure the glassware delivers the best experience possible.”This is a challenge given how Glass is still being developed, so it can be somewhat of a moving target. The Glass software platform went through 6 updates in the time we worked with it, which shows how much Google is still investing in the platform.Given the steady flow of software updates, and the various articles that have been published alluding to updated Glass hardware, I can’t help but feel this is still the beginning of the journey for Glass and for Tesco.”Google Glass remains a niche product:“useful, but overpriced and socially awkward”as the Guardian’s Samuel Gibbs put it in a review as the device went on sale in the UK. Google has not released any sales figures, but the smartglasses will only be owned by a tiny minority of Tesco’s customers.Reaching a large number of shoppers immediately isn’t the supermarket chain’s aim, though: as Coberly’s blog posts make clear, the Glass app is a chance to experiment with a technology that may become popular over the next five to 10 years.Google Glass will be joined by numerous rival devices over that period. Tech giantIntel recently invested $25m in Vuzix, another manufacturer of smartglasses, whileSony showed off its own “Smart EyeGlass” prototypeat this month’s CES show in Las Vegas. Apple has been granted several patents in related technology, too.•Google Glass v Apple Watch: Apple edges it over Google
Samsung has at last released a smartphone running on the Tizen operating system in an effort to reduce its reliance on Android.The South Korean company first announced the platform in 2012 and a phone based on Tizen wasset to go on salein the second half of last year. However, its release was subsequently postponed to “further enhance” the operating system.TheZ1goes on sale today and costs 5,700 rupees (£60). It is powered by a 1.2GHz dual-core processor and has 3G capability, a 4-inch display and a 3.1m megapixel camera.‘Dead on arrival’A camera and smartwatches running on Tizen were released by Samsung last year and it revealed a smart TV at the CES show in Las Vegas last week. The operating system could also be deployed in home appliances such as washing machines and fridges in the future.However, analysts remain sceptical about the prospects for Tizen. Francisco Jeronimo, research director at IDC, said it was “dead on arrival” given the absence of apps for the operating system.He also questioned why Samsung had opted to release its first Tizen smartphone in a market such as India, where 96% of such devices ran on Android. “Even if it’s cheap it will be very difficult to compete with offerings from local competitors - it’s a huge challenge,” Jeronimo said.Sales of the Z1 will govern whether developers decide to write apps for Tizen, which in turn will play a crucial role in its uptake. In a bid to encourage developers to create apps Samsung will give them all revenues from the Tizen app store for 12 months.Strategy Analytics has predicted that Tizen would become one of the fastest-growing operating systems along with Firefox and Microsoft’s Windows over the next six years, but added that it was unlikely to become a mass-market proposition.Almost all of the company’s devices, including its popular Galaxy S smartphone range, use the Android operating system. However, many hardware makers are growing increasingly concerned at their dependence on the Google-owned platform.Despite being the biggest televisions and smartphone manufacturer, Samsung has failed to create compelling software. It has a history of withdrawing apps or services despite lavish promotion, such as the decision to axe the mobile operating system Bada.Tizen dates back to 2011, when Intel and the Linux Foundation started working on the operating system. Samsung then merged Bada into Tizen later that year.•Superchips, driverless cars and follow-me drones at CES 2015
Many companies still ban staff from accessing Facebook during office hours, but the social network is hoping to win over the corporate critics with Facebook at Work, a version of its service designed for use within companies.The new service launched on Wednesday as a test for “pilot partners”, whose employees will be able to download the Facebook at Work mobile application for iOS or Android devices, as well as using its website.It is Facebook’s move to compete with existing workplace communication and collaboration tools from big technology companies like Google and Microsoft, as well as from emerging startups like Slack.Facebook at Work will use familiar Facebook features like the news feed, groups, messages and events, but has been designed purely for use within individual companies.Employees’ information will not be accessible to the outside world, including keeping it separate from their personal Facebook profiles.Facebook at Work’s launch is not a complete surprise, with the Financial Timesreporting in November 2014on the social network’s plans for a corporate version, claiming that the project had been “discussed internally for some time”.Anearlier report by TechCrunchin June 2014 suggested that “FB@Work” was being developed within Facebook’s London office, inspired by the way Facebook’s own staff used features like groups and messaging for their work.The executive in charge of Facebook at Work is the company’s director of engineering Lars Rasmussen, who joined Facebook in 2010 from Google, where he played a key role in the launch of its Google Maps service.Facebook at Work looks like a clear successor to Rasmussen’s last project within Google though: Google Wave. Also an online collaboration tool, it launched in preview form in 2009, but wasdropped a year laterwith Google claiming it had “not seen the user adoption we would have liked”.A few years on, the idea’s time may finally have come.Microsoft paid $1.2bn for Yammer, another private social networking service for companies, in 2012, while in November 2014 itlaunched a dedicated Skype for Business communications toolbased on its popular voice, video calls and messaging service.Meanwhile Slack, which was launched in 2013 by Flickr co-founder Stewart Butterfield, has signed up tens of thousands of “teams” – companies and teams within larger companies – for its messaging and file-sharing service. In November 2014, a$120m funding round valued Slack at $1.12bn.Facebook at Work could provide a valuable new revenue stream for Facebook, although the company has not revealed how it plans to charge for its new service – or even whether it plans to charge for it at all.Research firm Gartner has predicted that globally,businesses will spend $344bn on “enterprise software” in 2015. If Facebook can take even a small slice of that, it would make a significant impact on the company’s business, which currently is dominated by advertising sales.•Facebook hanging on to its adult users in the US claims study
“They’re here. Oh god! They’ve found you!” Do you run, or hide?That’s the choice that opens the Wanderer choose your own adventure, which uses a network of interconnected Twitter accounts to take the player on an enigmatic journey in which they escape – or don’t – from mysterious pursuers.Created by the web developerTerence Eden, the game is a promotional tool, of sorts, for Timothy Jarvis’s upcoming book of the same name. But it also serves as a testament to mankind’s ability (and desire) to make a game on any platform possible.Of course, as a game … it’s lacking. The graphics, entirely text, belong in an era long gone. Sure, evocative passages such as this:All that glisters is not gold. The detonation rips you in half. &#10;&#10;They feast on your remains.&mdash; There is always hope (@wnd_hope)January 11, 2015may be beautiful nuggets, perfectly turning Twitter’s limits into strengths and leaving the horror in what is unsaid. But the polygon count is low, and the sort of physics-led visual effects we’ve become used to with the rise of next-gen consoles such as the PS4 and Xbox One are non-existent.The playtime is short, too. Gamers used to 60-hour epics such as Grand Theft Auto V or Skyrim will find themselves blowing through this in less than a thousandth of the time. Multiple endings ease the pain slightly, but a skilled gamer will still have seen all the Wanderer has to offer in under five minutes.But where the game really shines is its multiplayer. We’ve become used to franchises such as Call of Duty propping up a lacklustre single-player campaign with a compelling online offering, but the Wanderer takes that and raises it to the next level.Embedded within the game itself is a fully fledged social experience with more that 300 million active participants. While it may take a while to get the hang of things, the “Twitter” mode is utterly compelling. It has few failure states, easing the burden on new players, and supports cross-play through a number of platforms: primarily mobile, but also desktop and most major consoles. It’s even compatible with the latest generation of smartwatches.So give it a go. The first game starts here, but who knows where it ends:They’re here. Oh god! They’ve found you! &#10;Run:@wnd_run&#10;Hide:@wnd_hide&mdash; A dreadful start (@wnd_go)January 11, 2015The Wanderer (Free, Twitter) is out now.
It’s something we all live in fear of: a new Facebook friend clicking left instead of right on our profile picture album, or indeed, any album on Facebook.Thus sending voyeurs hurtling back through time, to our first ever uploaded Facebook photographs; pictures of us as we were then.In recent days, however, a trend has appeared in which people (masochists?) arevoluntarilysharing their first ever profile picture.As with other viral Facebook trends, this one is as potentially irritating as theice bucket challengeor theno-makeup selfies– but unlike those trends, it doesn’t even raise money for charity.Why are people doing this first profile pic nominations? Whatever to some good old fashioned Facebook stalking?&mdash; ≈ M a k ≈ (@_Reflektor)January 14, 2015Over on Facebook they&#39;re nominating each other to put their first ever profile pic up...no charity involved, this is just for fun!  WHY?&mdash; Fairy-nuff (@F41rygirl)January 13, 2015We’re being bombarded with emo haircuts and awkward fuzzy, grainy webcam pics for seemingly no reason.Or are we? Is the trend a perfect, light-hearted antidote to the depressing world that is news trending on Facebook at the moment?Is it just a fun example of the draw of nostalgia? A great extension of#TBT(throwback Thursday) and#FBF(flashback Friday)?A brilliant look into a person’s soul circa 2006? Or is it just indulgent and vain? Let us know if you’re against the trend, but, otherwise, we’d love to see your first profile pictures – and your latest if you’d like us to see what you look like now – and we’ll feature the best on the Guardian site.How to shareYou can share your photos and views by clicking on the blue ‘Contribute’ button on this article.You can also use theGuardianWitness smartphone appor thenew Guardian appand search for ‘GuardianWitness assignments’.•GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
When I started playing Dragon Age: Inquisition, the latest narrative adventure from Canadian developer Bioware, I thought it was going to be like any other epic fantasy role-playing game – except that at some point, it would allow me to do the no-pants dance with a 10-foot man-bull voiced by Hollywood actor Freddie Prinze Jr.This is, after all BioWare, a studio renowned for exploring human relationships – or in the case of its Mass Effect sci-fi series, intergalactic pansexual human-alien relationships. In Dragon Age: Inquisition, you play a character of your own creation, tasked with saving the vast and cultured world of Thedas from, well, a big green bad thing in the sky that spawns demons. Through the game’s intricate conversation system, you’re able to conduct elaborate affairs with computer-controlled characters, one of whom is – yes – a 10-foot man-bull voiced by Freddie Prinze Jr. Why would anyone pass up that opportunity?I’ll tell you why – because of Dorian. Turning up early in the game as an optional companion, Dorian is a terribly posh upper-class mage, with a hipster moustache and a painful past. I took to him immediately, and as I wandered the pastoral paradise of the Hinterlands and the opulent city of Val Royeaux, he was always ready with some wiseass joke about pretty much every dire situation we found ourselves in.Swoon.So yes, I ditched Freddie Prinze Beefcake and became devoted to my lovely sarcastic mage. When I wasn’t slaughtering enemies, I would go and chat to him in the library (where he could often be found perusing the Dragon Age equivalent of Mills &amp; Boon novels), just to hear about his day. I waited patiently for the moment when our relentless, banterous flirting would come to its explosive conclusion. And then suddenly it did, but as a measure of the game’s relative emotional complexity, it didn’t go as planned.Mystique and misunderstandingOn this fateful day, my lovely boyfriend asked if I would come to help him confront his father, a gruff driving force in Dorian’s own story. This was our moment, I thought – after the talk, we would share hilarious anecdotes about his troublesome dad, I would listen to Dorian’s sad, personal stories, eyes brimming with tears, and then we’d snuggle up next to the fire and – goodness me, this is turning into a piece of erotic fan fiction. You get the idea.However, the confrontation took an unexpected turn. Dorian’s father had disowned him, you see, because Dorian “preferred the company of men”. Ohhhhh. As soon as we got back to HQ, I confronted the man I thought I loved.But here’s the thing. This character, all made up of polygons, designed and shaped and written by other humans who are probably nothing like him, gave me the most human response I think I’ve ever experienced in a video game. He apologised. He said he couldn’t change his nature. I accepted that, I said I was proud of him for standing up to his father, and when I chastised him for leading me on, he said he’d stop if I wanted, but that he really liked me as a friend, and that he felt our flirtatious banter was a part of that. Somehow, someone at Bioware had predicted this very situation - that I would fall virtual head over digital heels for the wrong man - and had written heartfelt dialogue just for me.And yes of course, the “me” that Dorian was entangled with was the “me” in the game – a semi-magical, dagger-wielding dwarf. But I still felt like he was talking to me me – the me sitting cross-legged on the floor of her bedroom, eyes wide, reminiscing over all the heartbreak she’d experienced before, because it all felt just like this. Isn’t it odd how it’s taken so long to reach this stage in games – the stage at which human conversations and relationships feel real?Rebounds and revelationsBut it’s not all sunshine, daisies and finding out your boyfriend’s gay. In Dragon Age: Inquisition, I also had to dump someone. I play games to escape this kind of thing – and perhaps it wouldn’t have bothered me so much if, once again, it hadn’t felt so damn real. In the wake of Dorian’s news, I had a bit of a rebound thing for Blackwall, the stronghold’s resident grumpy beard-wearer . But after flirting with the dude precisely once, he went all serious on me and told me we probably couldn’t be together because I didn’t understand who he was. Fair enough, I thought – but apparently from that point onwards, we were in a relationship.I only realised this when he tried to kiss me later on, and it all became horribly, cringingly familiar, because then I had to break up with him … during the sex scene he attempted to orchestrate. It was incredibly awkward, but again, so incredibly real and familiar that I felt like it was written just for me.And finally, in what now seems like a tale of my own awkward relationship history, I went for Iron Bull – that’s the 10-foot man-beast from earlier on, if you couldn’t figure that one out. For a guy so intimidatingly muscular, he was the most surprisingly gentle, er, lover. The defining moment of our relationship was, again, our sex scene, where he checked for consent. I’ll reiterate: a game character CHECKED FOR CONSENT.Consent is sexy. Consent is cool. Consent is a very important thing, for women and men, and now it’s in big blockbuster video games. Dragon Age: Inquisition is easily the most personal, well-designed relationship system I’ve ever seen - and if we learn anything at all from the media we consume, then our awkward, virtual sexual encounters in games like this could maybe shape us all into better, more respectful people. Or at the very least, they could let us know that love, awkward or otherwise, can come in many guises – including 10ft-tall bovine hunks who sound like the guy from the Scooby Doo movies.Dragon Age: Inquisition review – a truly monumental game
A war of words has broken out between technology giants after Microsoft accused Google of putting consumers at risk by publicising a vulnerability in its Windows code.The row centres on a fix for a flaw discovered in Windows 8.1 by Google on 13 October and reported to Microsoft.The search company has a self-imposed 90-day deadline for fixing security problems it finds under the Project Zero initiative. It is intended to prompt software groups to resolve issues more quickly or risk the embarrassment of Google exposing the failing to the world.That is precisely what happened this week when Microsoft failed to meet the deadline and thebug report was automatically published onlineby Google.In November Microsoft told Google that it expected to release patches for the issue in February, but then accelerated the target date to this month after being informed that the “90-day deadline is fixed for all vendors and bug classes and so cannot be extended”.While there is no love lost between Microsoft and Google, the inflexibility of the deadline is what has particularly upset Microsoft, which has long released fixes on a monthly basis on “Patch Tuesday”.Chris Betz, senior director of research, used ablog postto take aim at Google: “The decision feels less like principles and more like a ‘gotcha’, with customers the ones who may suffer as a result. What’s right for Google is not always right for customers.”He added: “We ask that researchers privately disclose vulnerabilities to software providers, working with them until a fix is made available before sharing any details publically. It is in that partnership that customers benefit the most. Policies and approaches that limit or ignore that partnership do not benefit the researchers, the software vendors, or our customers. It is a zero sum game where all parties end up injured.”Google declined to comment.Wolfgang Kandek, chief technology officer at security firm Qualys, said he expected more instances of “this type of miscommunication” until the two companies could reach some agreement on issues such as the flexibility of 90-day deadlines and how critical the flaw was.“If I have the patch but will not release it until my monthly patch date, does that count? Feedback from the IT administrators will be very important for both Microsoft and Google,” he added.Software developers also appeared to side with Microsoft, withone writing on Google’s site: “Disclosing this may have been the right thing to do. Doing so based on an automated deadline with zero context from Google strikes me as much less so. It seems to me that the relationship between Google &amp; MSFT’s respective security teams is fairly poor. Seeing things like this certainly goes a way to explaining why.”Unusually for this month’s Patch Tuesday, Microsoft released fixes for Windows alone - including one marked as critical - but none for Internet Explorer. Kandek described the move as surprising given there was a fix for the browser every month last year.The issue at the centre of the row was not described as serious.• Is it worth upgrading to Windows 8.1?
An Italian artist has written a 600-page, US$220, two-volume book on homelessness in the video game Sim City.Matteo Bittani’s “How to get rid of homeless” collects dozens of forum threads debating and discussing the homelessness that occurs in the game, highlighting the uneasy similarities between the players’ discussion of virtual homelessness and real-world conversation about the same topic.The selections begin in 2012, before the game was even released, with a request to add “the homeless” into the game. An EA Games forums user IanLoganson wrote: “Most cities have homeless, though in the west it isn’t that [much] of an issue. Some of the world’s biggest cities now are in rapidly developing countries and one big problem them seem to have is slums.”But once the game was released – with its depiction of homelessness included – the questions become more sinister, especially when taken out of the context of the EA Games forums. “How do you get rid of these people,” asked 1ButtonDash, a year later. “They gather in parks and then people don’t go to parks.”“I mean as you level-up your residential to medium I think it’s almost impossible for some people to not become homeless. I read that buses are supposed to take them out of the city but it doesn’t seem to be working … If anyone has gotten rid of em plz let me know what you did.”One player asks: “How do homeless people come to be? Does anyone know? I’m pretty sure it has to do with residential running out of money and becoming abandoned, but I haven’t been able to confirm this.” A second replies “a better question would be, how do you kill homeless Sims?”And in a post titled “the upside to disasters” another points out that every storm has a silver lining: “Tornadoes kill homeless sims. I don’t know how to get rid of them otherwise.”Speaking to Vice,Bittanti said the project beganbecause “I started to find the discussion about homeless in SimCity way more interesting than SimCity itself because people were talking about the issue in a very – how can I say, not racist, not classist, but definitely peculiar way.”“Decontextualised from their original source and reproduced on paper sans the majority of online communication hallmarks (eg author’s signatures, side banners, avatar pictures etc), these textual exchanges create a peculiar narrative,” Bittanti writes. Some comments “reveal racist and classist biases, and forcefully introduce – or, rather, reintroduce – a highly political vision that the alleged “neutral” algorithms were supposed to overcome.”“To me video games are the so-called real America,” he told Vice. “The real America operates according to a video game logic, and that game logic is neo-liberalism, and that absolutely manifests in San Francisco, that to me is the epicenter of inequality. In San Francisco you either have a Tesla and you drink a seven dollar cappuccino or you’re homeless in the streets.”A previous book by Bittanti tackles a similar topic. A New American Dream collects images of homeless people taken from Google Street View in San Francisco. “Over a period of two years, Coll.eo took advantage of the Google’s mass surveillance tool to virtually - and, above all, safely - drive the unseen and overlooked roads of San Francisco, bleak places that are forgotten, economically devastated, and completely ignored by the digerati,”he writes.Older editions of Sim City have also provoked artists and fans to ask uncomfortable questions about the nature of society. In 2010,Vincent Ocasla created a megalopolis in SimCity 3000 which he called Magnasanti. Designed intricately on graphing paper over four years before ever being brought to life in the digital realm, the city holds the maximum possible population for the game. It’s a wonder of urban design, and a totalitarian nightmare, full of enormous tower blocks linked by subways. Ocasla’s game runs for 50,000 years, holding a population of 6 million people with zero abandoned buildings, zero water pollution, and zero congestion.• “A game like this should provide hundreds of hours of gameplay, but it’ll only take you a fraction of that to see what little that SimCity has to offer.”
The security of smartphones and tablets running Android is under scrutiny again, after it emerged that Google is no longer providing patches for some exploits in early versions of the software.The latest debate focuses on exploits found by researchers in the WebView technology that renders web pages on smartphones and tablets running versions up to and including Android 4.3 “Jelly Bean”.The Metasploit blog revealed the change in policy, based on exploits submitted to Google by security researchers Rafay Baloch and Joe Vennix, who have been prodding at Android software looking for vulnerabilities.It quotes feedback from Google’s Android security team on exploits in the WebView component, which was replaced in 2013 when the company launched Android 4.4 “KitKat”.“If the affected version is before 4.4, we generally do not develop the patches ourselves, but welcome patches with the report for consideration,” explained an email from the security team, published by Metasploit.“Other than notifying OEMs, we will not be able to take action on any report that is affecting versions before 4.4 that are not accompanied with a patch.”The onus is on researchers to supply their own patches, or for OEMs – smartphone and tablet manufacturers – to patch the exploits and push new software to owners of their devices.Why is this controversial? Because a lot of Android devices being used in 2015 are still running older versions of the software,according to Google’s developer dashboard. 60.9% of them, in fact.Breaking that down: 46% are running Jelly Bean; 6.7% its predecessor Ice Cream Sandwich; 7.8% the version before that, Gingerbread; and 0.4% are running Android 2.2 Froyo, which was released in 2010.Metasploit suggested that if security researchers continue to look for vulnerabilities in older Android software and publish details of their findings, cybercriminals could take advantage.“Open source security researchers routinely publish vulnerability details and working exploits with the expectation that this kind of public discussion and disclosure can get both vendors and users to take notice of techniques employed by bad guys,” explained the site.“By ‘burning’ these vulnerabilities, users come to expect that vendors will step up and provide reasonable defenses. Unfortunately, when the upstream vendor is unwilling to patch, even in the face of public disclosure, regular users remain permanently vulnerable.”Google is still providing security patches for other elements of Android software, including versions before KitKat.But the policy for exploits of those older versions’ WebView component risks leaving owners of old devices with a stark choice: update the software (if that’s possible), buy a new device, or risk being less secure.With Google announcing in June 2014 that there weremore than one billion active Android users, there could be upwards of 600 million people facing that choice – if they’re even aware that the issue exists.•How you could become a victim of cybercrime in 2015
Shares in GoPro have dropped more than 10% amid speculation Apple could be entering the wearable cameras market after it wasgranted a new patent.But the patent may not indicate such a move by the tech company. The patent in question was actually filed by Kodak in 2012, and only came under Apple’s control as part of a slate of patents bought by consortiums led by Apple and Google for $525m.The patent, which cites specific weaknesses in GoPro’s cameras, includes details about a camera system that can be mounted on bike helmets or scuba masks, and was reported to have been filed by Apple.Seemingly as a result, shares of GoPro, the market leader in wearable cameras, plummeted by 12% over the course of Tuesday.The patented camera system could also be used under water to take pictures and record sounds, according to the application.But just because Apple now owns the patent, does not mean it intends to actually release any such device.JMP Securities analyst Alex Gauna said it was premature to assume that Apple would soon launch a wearable camera.“It does not seem to me that launching an action camera accessory is the most logical product extension for Apple to pursue right now,” Gauna told Reuters.Wearable cameras are a popular gadget, particularly among sporting types, who mount them on helmets, boards, bikes and skis to record events. They’re especially popular among cyclists, where they have an additional use when it comes to establishing liability in the case of an accident.But some question whether the wearable camera’s existence as a standalone gadget may be coming to an end in the face of increased competition from smartphones. “I’ve long been wondering if GoPro is just the next Flip,”writes tech journalist John Gruber, referring to a briefly popular brand of stand-alone HD video cameras. “Remember them?”•Apple loses $24m patent lawsuit to pager firm
It’s Wednesday - get any good gaming in last night?
Apple can’t claim to have invented the self-taken photograph – that honour belongs toan amateur chemist named Robert Cornelius– but they can certainly claim to have popularised it. And now the world’s biggest tech company may be stealing back the selfie revolution … maybe even on an iStick.The one holdout in Apple’s selfie empire has been adventure sports, due perhaps to the iPhone’s propensity to crack when dropped or exposed to a light breeze.This has been the gap into whichGoPro has sprung. They make camera equipment – including, yes, an iPhone-friendlyselfie stick– that lets you take pictures of yourself or mount cameras in your helmet while snowboarding, kitesurfing, dirtbiking, wingsuiting or anything else. For example, an Italian tourist attraction, whereWayne Fromm invented the “quick tripod”, one of the most annoying holiday gadgets in modern history.But on Tuesday, a series of Apple patentssurfaced online– and one of them would allow iPhone users to take remote pictures from a mounted camera, controlled from a watch. The patent specifically mentions weaknesses in the GoPro product.Stock of GoPro, which went public in June 2014, dropped 12% after the news broke.The patent describes how a camera device such as an iPhone could be mounted, such as on a bicycle helmet or on a surfboard, and then controlled remotely from a second device, like a watch.“For example, the GoPro HD Hero2 digital cameras, sold by GoPro Inc of Half Moon Bay, California, are sold as part of an “Outdoor edition” package, Apple’s new patent states. “However, the HD Hero2 camera includes only a single image capture system, which captures images using an optical axis directed outward from the ‘front’ of the camera.”“This can cause excessive wind resistance and presents a high profile that is more susceptible to damage and image artifacts from vibrations in some situations.”Apple did not respond to requests for comment on what other selfie-related devices were in development, and a representative of GoPro was not available for comment.
Facebook has begun placing warning messages over videos and photos which it deems to contain graphic images of violence that could “shock, offend and upset”.The warning, which has been being rolling out since December, was confirmed by Facebook as a way to prevent potentially distressing videos from being viewed automatically. Previously such content would have auto-played on the site.The social network is appending the warnings only to content that is violent in nature, meaning that other explicit videos that may also offend are not covered by the warning.The warning is only placed on content that has been flagged by users and which is not deemed in breach of the site’s terms and conditions after review by Facebook. The site’s terms specifically stipulate that content “shared for sadistic pleasure or to celebrate or glorify violence” is banned. In contrast, violent content that is shared by users condemning or reporting on it is allowed as permitted.‘Share it responsibly’“When people share things on Facebook, we expect that they will share it responsibly, including choosing who will see that content,” said a Facebook spokesperson. “We also ask that people warn their audience about what they are about to see if it includes graphic violence. In instances when people report graphic content to us that should include warnings or is not appropriate for people under the age of 18, we may add a warning for adults and prevent young people from viewing the content.”The move follows pressure from both Facebook’s internal and external safety advisors after graphic videos posted by terror groups showing beheadings of hostages and shocking propaganda were shown to users under 18 years old.The social network permits users to sign up for accounts from the age of 13 years old, but younger users can circumvent age verification to create accounts and video content.Click to playThe graphic video warnings require the user to click on the video to confirm that they still want to see it after the advice.Facebook has faced continual criticism for allowing violent and graphic content to remain on the site because it deems it to be of public interest.The social network permits videos and images from news reports and documentaries depicting abuse, murders and terrorist activities for instance.David Cameroncalled Facebook “irresponsible”for allowing beheading clips to remain available, forcing the social network to place limited captions warning about the content in front of videos depicting a killing in Mexico in 2013. The videos werelater removed.Critics will claim that this is the latest move to blur lines between publisher and service provider, where Facebook professing to be neutral and not responsible for user published content and merely a platform for that content, begins to monitor and filter content.One of the first videos to be affected contain footage of murdered Paris policeman Ahmed Merabet, who was shot in last week’s Charlie Hebdo attacks.Facebook recently announced that it had passed 1bn video views per day on its site from its 1.3 billion users, as it attempts to challenge Google’s YouTube to become the dominant video platform.•Facebook removes Mexican beheading video•Facebook trumpets video growth as it prepares to take on YouTube
Protesters gathered at a Manhattan court building on Tuesday in support of Ross Ulbricht, whose trial for being the accused mastermind behind what was once the internet’s biggest illegal drugs marketplace was beginning at a federal court inside.Federal prosecutorsaccuseUlbricht, who allegedly went by the alias “Dread Pirate Roberts”, of being the owner and manager of the deep-web marketplace Silk Road. He wasarrested in a library in San Francisco in October 2013, and charged with drug trafficking, criminal enterprise, aiding and abetting distribution of drugs over the internet, computer hacking and money laundering.According to the indictment, Ulbricht himself reaped “tens of millions of dollars” in commissions.He is also charged with involvement in conspiracy to commission six “hits”, including against a former Silk Road employee, using bitcoin to pay the purported assassins. No killings were actually carried out.In court, Ulbricht, clean-shaven and dressed smartly in a dark blazer and beige slacks, sat confidently beside his legal team. Occasionally he turned to flash a smile at his mother, Lyn, who was in the public gallery.Ulbricht has consistently claimed that he was not Dread Pirate Roberts, and denies all the charges against him.Outside the courtroom, protesters had gathered in support of Ulbricht.Derrick J Freeman, who had come from Keene, New Hampshire, to demonstrate outside the court, told the Guardian he thought it would set a dangerous precedent if a website can be prosecuted for what its users do. “If so, drag Craigslist off to prison,” he said.In its heyday, Silk Road was a sprawling marketplace where people used bitcoin to purchase a galaxy of different stimulants, hallucinogenics, opiates and prescription drugs.In July 2013 it was estimated that transactions on Silk Road could be upwards of $30m-45m per year, and the indictment states that the site had “well over a hundred thousand buyers worldwide”.It operated on the Tor network, a web anonymising service originally developed by the US naval research center and partly funded by Darpa as a way of protecting government communication.For Freeman, if Ulbricht is actually Dread Pirate Roberts, he is a pioneer of the deep web, and a hero. “He brought the black market online,” he said. “There’s no fear of drive-by shootings, or back-alley stabbings.”
Grand Theft Auto publisher Rockstar Games has announced that the PC version of GTA V has been delayed until 24 March.Originally released on Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 last September, the game was recently updated for the Xbox One and PlayStation 4, and a PC version was scheduled for 27 January.Rumours persisted, however, that the computer version would be delayed, despite protestations from Rockstar. In December, the release date was altered on the PC gaming site Steam, from “January” to “early 2015”. A week ago,a spokesperson assured fans, “GTA V will be coming to PC on January 27th. We have not announced any changes to this date at this time.”Explaining the decision to delay until March on its Newswire site, Rockstar stated, “Our apologies for the slight shift in the date but the game requires a few extra weeks of testing and polish to make it as good as can be.“Moving a release date is never a decision we take lightly and is a choice we make only when we know it is in the best interests of the game and our fans. Thanks everyone for your understanding and we assure you these few extra weeks will be worth it when the game does arrive in March.”A special version of GTA Online, the game’s multiplayer mode, will also launch with the game, allowing up to 30 players to battle it out in online competitions. The long-waited “heists” option, where players will be able to team up and complete more complex robbery missions, will also feature – according to Rockstar, these will be coming to the console versions of GTA Online, “in the coming weeks”.Grand Theft Auto V has become one of the most successful games of all time, selling over 43m copies. The overhauled PS4 and Xbox One version is currently back at the top of the game sales chart in the UK.Rockstar hopes that the range of new graphical features for the game, including support for 4K monitors and three-screen configurations, will appease fans. The PC version is also set to include an editor for uploading footage to YouTube, and is likely to be “moddable” allowing players to create their own custom versions of the game world.Potential players will need a reasonably powerful machine though: the suggested requirements are an Intel i5 or AMD X8 FX-8350 processor, 8GB of RAM and at least 65GB of free storage space on the hard drive.
Crossy Road has been a popular mobile game for smartphones and tablets, and its in-game video advertisements are paying off for developer Hipster Whale.The company has made more than $1m so far from the ads, which players watch to earn virtual coins to spend on new characters for the game, which involves leaping across roads and rivers without getting squashed or sinking.Not bad work considering that theiOS version of Crossy Roadlaunched in mid-November 2014, with itsversion for Amazon devicesfollowing just before Christmas, and thenAndroid in early January.The figure was revealed by games technology company Unity, which provides the video ads, in aninterview posted on its official blogwith Hipster Whale’s Australian co-founders Andy Sum and Matt Hall.Crossy Road is free to download and play, but makes its money from the video ads and also for in-app purchases when players buy characters, which range from penguins, cats and pigs to wizards and robots. The characters can also be unlocked by spending coins earned from watching the adverts.“We wanted it to be free, so that everyone has a chance to play,” said Hall, citing another indie mobile game, Disco Zoo, as inspiration.“I played Disco Zoo and thought that video ads were a really good way to earn money without getting into people’s faces. We just needed to figure out a fun reason for players to watch them,” he said.“We didn’t want any consumable purchases, we wanted to do something that everybody could pay a little bit for if they wanted to, but where it wasn’t necessary to keep paying.”Crossy Road was downloadedmore than 10 million timesfrom Apple’s App Store in its first month, thenanother million downloadsin its first weekend on Android’s Google Play store in January.•The best Android games of 2014•The best iPhone and iPad games of 2014
