The summer gaming drought is finally coming to an end. Controversial action/RPGToo Humanfinally launches in the UK this Friday while September sees Spore and Force Unleashed arrive. Oh, and Mercenaries 2. Steve Boxerreviewsthe open-world shooter today and gives it 3 stars. From what I've seen and played I'd say that was generous but maybe the tediously clichéd characters grow on you after a while.The Mummyon PS2 sounds even worse with reviewer Mike Anderiez accusing it of, "smelling like old bandages". Sounds like I reviewed the best game of the week then -Madden NFL '09. Forget all the "20th Anniversary" marketing hype but this is the best Madden game for years. It might finally surpassESPN NFL 2K5as the best American footy game ever. But despite the Madden IQ test, a better manual and more on-screen hints there is still a pretty steep learning curve. Especially if you don't know yourCover 2 Defensefrom yourWest Coast Offence. But I'm a big fan of Madden '09. So with "soccer" (PES, possibly FIFA '09), cricket (Brian Lara 2007) and NFL covered all I need now is decent - heck, any will do - rugby league game.
Jeez louise - we've had some awesome entries thus far for ourRough Guide to Videogames competition. But we've also had quite a few people who were away last week requesting that they be included in the running. So out of the kindness of our heart, we're extending the delivery date toMonday 1st September.See if you can top this submission, from Andy:Located in the Nevada desert, the Alpha Electric Dam (Fig. 001) powering the local farms is the front for a Builders League United ("BLU") run intelligence gathering facility (Fig. 005) located in the engineering area, where the vast majority of the hydroelectric power goes to BLU radar operation (Fig. 002).Reliable Excavation Demolition ("RED") instituted a underground base (Fig. 006) hidden at the main entrance used to stage a take over the facility. RED had previously detected BLU's spying activities, and so tunnelled a secret entrance without their knowledge to counterspy before attacking the facility outright.Constant fighting to take control of the entire facility took place once RED attacked half the facility, the Dam (Fig. 001) and Radar (Fig. 002), cutting off the main entrance to the facility in the process. BLU retained control over the Turbines (Fig. 003) and engineering area (Fig. 004).Special security doors (Fig. 007) were put into action by BLU to stop RED's access to all areas apart from ones BLU wanted to retake, although they also stop their own movements. Access to each of RED or BLU's hardened bunker facilities is only allowed once the rest of the facility is taken due to the power required from the Dam to force open the entrances to the intelligence bunkers (Fig. 005, 006). Even once the facility controlled, reinforcements from the opposing side airdropped in to retake half the facility again, restarting the battle afresh.The entire facility was finally destroyed when the Dam was blown in a espionage activity by both RED and BLU personnel simultaneously (Fig. 008) leaving the area flooded (Fig. 009).Intelligence pictures obtained from BLU and RED agencies, contracts SPY/083875 and SPY/083876.Think you can do better? You have until Monday 1st September to claim your prize!Describe your favourite game location in under 300 words
Run for the hills! Virtually!Two guys see whether they can physically run the distances involved in travelling across the virtual world of Azeroth. Avatars are exceptionally fit, it turns out: much more so than humans.Talking robots - on Windows?Here's a talking robot head. They're taking over the world! But wait - the first step in making it work is "Load the Windows Speech API", which suggests that we're safe from domination for now.Hang on, though, it's 2001 nowApple's advert about Y2K, using HAL - though sadly not the original actor's voice. Ah, global meltdown nostalgia.Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us in the comments!
I've bought a new HD video camera which records in AVCHD. When I looked at the Pinnacle editing software supplied with it, I read that the minimum requirements include an Intel quad core processor running at 2.66GHz. I have consulted PC World, Dell and HP, and none has a home computer running at this speed. What can I do?Richard CookeAVCHD is one of the high-definition movie standards used by Blu-ray and HD DVD and allows for pictures that are 1,920 x 1,080 pixels. It is a highly compressed format, to save space, but as a consequence it requires a great deal of processing power to reconstruct the original image. What the camera salesmen don't tell you is that just displaying 25 of these large images a second is beyond many PCs, unless they have accelerated graphics. Editing them can be a nightmare, and a common approach (taken by Apple's Final Cut Pro, among others) is to transcode them into something that is easier to handle. The Wikipedia page onAVCHDlists some of these converters.Editing native AVCHD is not, of course, beyond reach. However, such powerful PCs are generally not off-the-shelf items, but assembled to order. First, pick your Intel Core 2 Quad processor fromIntel's spec sheet: the Q6700 is the cheap 2.66GHz chip, but there's a newer, better 2.83GHz version, the Q9550. Next, look for a PC with that Q number, 4GB or 8GB of memory, and 64-bit Windows Vista. An example is theMesh Xtreme X9550GTXwith a Q9550, 8GB of memory, a terabyte of hard drive space, Blu-ray player and 24 inch widescreen monitor displaying 1,920 x 1,200 for £1,199 inc VAT*.On its own, Pinnacle Studio 12 will run OK on a 1.6 GHz Dual Core processor with 1GB of memory, so the problem is down to the videos you want to edit. You could reduce the PC hardware requirements by reducing the size of your videos. Instead of shooting 1,080p, for example, you could use 1,440 x 1,080 or go down to 720p (1,280 x 720 pixels), like broadcast HDTV. However, my experience is that editing MPeg-2 movies is a pig on a fast Pentium, and I'd expect editing MPeg-4 Part 10 (ie AVC) to be much piggier even on a quad core PC. I'd want more power, not less.* After I filed my copy, the price rose to £1,299 and the 24 inch screen became a 26 inch screen.
I run a small business from home, and send a regular newsletter. I have a TalkTalk phone and broadband package. I now find that I am unable to send more than about 20 newsletters in a block.Annie HallI can't find any mention of this on the TalkTalk website, but internet service providers usually limit the number of emails you can send at once, to discourage spamming. However, I'd have thought 100 was a more reasonable number than 20. You could try contacting TalkTalk for help, but ISP email services are not a selling point but an overhead that I suspect most would rather be rid of. Larger companies, including the Guardian, often use outside services such ascheetahmail.comandjangomail.comto send out promotional emails. You could try a local supplier such asSubscribed: there must be lots. These companies tend to be hostile towards anything "spammy" as it could affect their business.
What are your top tips for maximising the life of rechargeable batteries? I've got lots and they don't seem to last as long as they used to.Richard BrownDifferent kinds of battery require different approaches, so it's a bigger topic than it sounds. However,BatteryUniversity.comprovides comprehensive coverage and a handy summary intable form.With the increasingly common Lithium-ion (Li-ion) types, the main advice is not to discharge them more than once a month: try to recharge them when they are on 20% or so. Alas, they are only good for a limited number of cycles and age even if not used. They may need replacing after 18-24 months or 350-500 cycles, but can last longer. It's always worth checking the device's manual for information and advice.
Is there a way to search blogs by location?J BourtoniNot really. There are blogs from all over the world sitting on the same servers run by American companies such as Google (Blogger) and Microsoft (Spaces), and there is no easy way to tell them apart. However, there are sites you can try, such asBlogdigger Local,PlaceBlogger.com,feedmap.netandGlobe of Blogs. Bloggers who want to be found geographically can make it easier by submitting their sites. In the longer term, there's a 10-year plan involving 74 nations calledGeoss, for Global Earth Observation System of Systems, which should encourage more location awareness. So should Yahoo's newFire Eagle.
The PlayStation 2 hit UK shelves roughly the same time as The Mummy and both seem to be living on borrowed time. This version of the disappointing third movie looks good enough, but looks alone don't make an arcade adventure. Once you get to the fighting, you'll find it infuriating to perform due to a meandering camera and interfering lock-on system, and hard to enjoy thanks to the repetitive and soulless battles. This is a pity as the animations are fluid and the locations pretty impressive. There are a few sub-Lara puzzles and leaps thrown in but the PS2 has seen much better in this genre. All of which leaves Mummy 3 smelling like old bandages.
American football has had fluctuating popularity in the UK but currently the sport is as popular as it has been since the initial television coverage of the mid 80s. So the latest Madden game - this is the 20th-anniversary edition of the official NFL game - should find a decent market over here. And luckily it deserves to. This is a decent upgrade on 08 with sharper graphics and more accessible gameplay. An initial "virtual test" gives you an indicator of your skill level and the game plays against you accordingly. In theory great, in practice not always noticeable. On the field the action is less dominated by interceptions and the running game feels a little more effective. A nifty backtrack feature allows you to review a failed play while the commentary and general presentation - historically bettered by 2k's old ESPN games - is finally bought up to scratch. NFL fans will lap this up, but Madden 09 deserves a wider audience.
As far as space monsters go it is less menacing than Daleks or Klingons, but an unwanted intruder has made its way aboard the international space station.Gammima.AG, a malicious password-swiping computer virus, has broken new frontiers, by infecting two laptops on the ISS orbiting 215 miles above Earth.The virus was first detected on Earth in August 2007 infecting machines to steal login names for popular online games.Nasa officials have begun an investigation into how the virus made it aboard the ISS, but it is thought it might have been inadvertently carried into space on an astronaut's USB drive.Reports suggested that once on board the station, the memory device was plugged into the computers, infecting them both.Computers on the ISS are not directly connected to the internet but they have access to a satellite data link. They are not part of the space station's "command and control" network, Nasa said.It is understood astronauts were using the laptops to compose email and store information on nutritional experiments.Once it has scooped up passwords and login names Gammima.AG tries to send them back to a central server. It targets a total of 10 online games most of which are popular in the Far East.Nasa, who described the virus as a "nuisance" is now working with its international partners on the space station, including Russians, to find out how it got on board. Nasa spokesman Kelly Humphries said: "It's not a frequent occurrence, but this isn't the first time."The ISS is a joint project between Nasa, the European Space Agency, and the space agencies of Canada, Russia and Japan. It has been continuously manned by astronauts since 2000.
Apparently it could - at least according to research by Richard Clayton, a security expert from Cambridge University's computer lab.Most of us tend to assume that spammers focus on the right-hand side of our email addresses - the part after the @. That's why big companies and webmail services have to filter out so much junk email: a spammer can try it on with zillions of potential victims in one swoop, simply by throwing everything they've got at any @hotmail.com address.However, it turns out that spammers could be more subtle creatures than we give them credit for. A paper presented by Clayton at CEAS 2008, the Conference on Email and Anti-Spam held last week at a Microsoft research facility in California, suggests that the text to the left of the @ also makes a serious difference to how much spam you're likely to receive. Analysing email traffic logs from Demon Internet, one of Britain's biggest ISPs, Clayton saw a marked difference between people's spam load depending on their names: specifically, those with names higher up the alphabet were more likely to get spammed than those closer to the bottom.According to his statistics, someone called Alison may expect around 35% of the email she receives to be spam, while Zadie may only get around 20% - even if both use the same email provider.The reason? As Clayton explains on his team's blog, he believes it is the result of so-called "Rumplestiltskin" attacks, where spammersrun through entire dictionaries, guessing at names and sending millions of emails to try and find accounts belonging to real people. It seems that most spammers start their journeys at the beginning of the alphabet but peter out before they reach the end.There is, he says, a genuine statistical divide between what he calls "aardvarks" - those high up the alphabetical food chain - and "zebras" - who graze at the bottom of the dictionary. For those weary of it, he even suggests changing species - or at least picking your username more carefully.So are Anna and Andrew doomed to a life of spam-filled inboxes and email bankruptcy, while their friends Zach and Zoe live it up free of spam?Not quite. The internet's scammers, phishers and other guttersnipes are still more likely to hit people who broadcast their email address on the web; and, of course, there are still a few special cases.After all, Bill Gates - who famously revealed a few years ago that he received up to 4m junk emails every single day - may have a name that comes near the top of the Aardvark ratings - but given his prominence, it's unlikely that the Microsoft mogul could empty his spam folder simply by switching from Bill to William.
"Captcha is the bane of the internet," says Matt Mullenweg, who runs the massively popular blogging siteWordpress.com. "I can't figure them out myself half the time!"He is referring to those squiggly, distorted images commonly seen when registering for internet services such as free email accounts or blogging sites. The user has to type the letters in the image before proceeding. Captcha stands for Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart. The idea is that humans can read the letters, but computers cannot, thus preventing automated scripts from registering.Websites use Captchas in an attempt to disrupt the spam and malware economy - but they are not working. "Spammers and malware authors are able to break Captcha process," says Carl Leonard, a threat research manager at Websense Security Labs. "As a result, we've seen an increase in the amount of mail sent out from reputable mail services such as Gmail, Hotmail and Windows Live Mail, and an increase in the number of blogs that host malicious content, or content that the spammers wish to advertise." Email accounts on such services are particularly valuable because spam filters cannot block them without also blocking genuine mail.Techniques to break Captcha are nothing new. First, if a human can read an image then the chances are that software can do the same thing. In 2005, a software developer, Casey Chesnut,wrote a Captcha-breaking algorithmand demonstrated it by posting automated comments to nearly 100 blogs to demonstrate their vulnerability. In response to this kind of attack, Captcha authors have devised tests that are harder to solve. Images may be more squiggly than they used to be, making them harder to break but also more troublesome for legitimate users. Other ideas include3D Captcha, relying on object recognition rather than character recognition; or framing questions that are trivial for humans to answer but hard for software to parse. Some approaches work better than others, but there are a number of inherent problems. One is that many Captchas are inaccessible to the visually impaired, and will fall foul of accessibility legislation unless there is an alternative. Another snag is that spammers may play their trump card, using humans.Human resources"Many attackers have found creative ways to entice humans to unknowingly solve the Captchas for them," says Jamie de Guerre, chief technology officer at Cloudmark. "This relay attack involves copying the image served in a Captcha to a user somewhere else, having them solve the Captcha, and then copying their response back to the original website."Another option is to pay. Spammers have employed large teams of temporary staff to solve Captchas, effectively "rooms of people", usually in a third world country, sitting at a computer and solving Captchas."Most Captchas have been completely broken" says Leonard, adding that the problem is getting worse. "We're seeing more Captchas targeted, more Captchas broken. I don't see how the targeting by the malicious authors right now is going to go away. It's still in their interests to get hold of these valued accounts."Despite these issues, heavily attacked companies such as Microsoft are not abandoning the system. "We are updating our Captcha system to be both more readable for customers but more difficult to break through," a spokesman said. "Improvements include new image distortion logic, overlapping characters and dynamic monitoring capabilities to observe attacks in real time and make necessary adjustments to mitigate them. In addition, we continue to make advances to better prevent spammers from using Hotmail accounts, once created, to successfully send spam."That is all very well, but the failings of Captcha impact every internet user. It is not only a matter of more spam choking inboxes. Breaking Captcha enables networks of computers to post malicious content to legitimate sites. "The huge increase in numbers of legitimate sites affected radically changes traditional trust relationships on the web," says Pete Simpson, the ThreatLab manager at ClearSwift. "Steering clear of dubious sites has always been sound advice, but steering clear of legitimate sites is not an option."What can replace Captcha? "There's probably going to have to be some kind of layered security," says Leonard, "It's up to the industry sectors which and how many layers of security they wish to employ, dependent on what sort of site they have."Layered security means adding human or third-party checks to actions like registration, and then monitoring content later to check for malicious use. The trade-off is that as security increases, usability decreases. Heavy-handed security can easily kill the conversation on social networking sites which depend on making it easy for new users to engage with the community.Safety netIn the end, it is just another angle on the woeful security that characterises today's internet. New authentication schemes such as OpenID, or Microsoft's CardSpace, may help as adoption increases. These systems make it possible to register for one site using credentials verified by another. Instead of having many sites with poor verification procedures, the internet could have a few sites with strong verification procedures, that are then used by others. The advantage for the user is that they no longer have to jump through multiple hoops for each new site they encounter. Such a system depends on receiving sites being selective about which third parties they trust to verify a user's identity. That said, the internet is a long way from adopting this level of security, and there is always a danger that whatever steps the industry takes to improve authentication, the scammers will keep up with innovations of their own.Mullenweg's answer is to focus on the content rather than the user. His Akismet system for preventing spam comments relies on a combination of secret algorithms and community reports, and has proved remarkably effective."Ultimately Captchas are useless for spam because they're designed to tell you if someone is 'human' or not, but not whether something is spam or not. Just because something came from a real human being doesn't mean it isn't spam, which is why content-based solutions like Akismet are the only long-term solution to the spam problem."
Back in the early 1990s, email was a privilege granted only to those who could prove they needed it. Now, it has turned into a nuisance that's costing companies millions. We may feel that we have it under control, but not only do we check email more often than we realise, but the interruptions caused are more detrimental than was previously thought. In a study last year, Dr Thomas Jackson of Loughborough University found thatit takes an average of 64 secondsto recover your train of thought after interruption by email. So people who check their email every five minutes waste 8.5 hours a week figuring out what they were doing moments before.It had been assumed that email doesn't cause interruptions because the recipient chooseswhen to check for and respondto email. But Jackson found that people tend to respond to email as it arrives, taking an average of only one minute and 44 seconds to act upon a new email notification; 70% of alerts got a reaction within six seconds. That's faster than letting the phone ring three times.Time outAdded to this is the time people spend with their inbox. A July 2006 study by ClearContext, an email management tools vendor, surveyed 250 users and discovered that 56% spent more thantwo hours a day in their inbox. Most felt they got too much email - by January 2008, 38% of respondents received more than 100 emails a day - and that it stopped them from doing other things.Dr Karen Renaud, a lecturer at the University of Glasgow, and her colleagues at the University of the West of Scotland discovered that email users fall into three categories: relaxed, driven and stressed. "The relaxed group don't let email exert any pressure on their lives," Renaud says. "They treat it exactly the way that one would treat the mail: 'I'll fetch it, I'll deal with it in my own time, but I'm not going to let it upset me'." The second group felt "driven" to keep on top of email, but also felt that they could cope with it. The third group, however, reacted negatively to the pressure of email. "That causes stress," says Renaud, "and stress causes all sorts of health problems."Renaud's team discovered that while 64% of respondents claimed to check their email once an hour, and 35% said they checked every 15 minutes, they were actually checking it much more frequently - about every five minutes. For some people, checking email is no longer a conscious and deliberate act, but acompulsionthey are barely aware of.Take a gambleDr Tom Stafford, a lecturer at the University of Sheffield and co-author of the book Mind Hacks, believes that the same fundamental learning mechanisms that drive gambling addicts are also at work in email users. "Both slot machines and email follow something called a 'variable interval reinforcement schedule'," he says, "which has been established as the way to train in the strongest habits. This means that rather than reward an action every time it is performed, you reward it sometimes, but not in a predictable way. So with email, usually when I check it there is nothing interesting, but every so often there's something wonderful - an invite out, or maybe some juicy gossip  - and I get a reward." This is enough to make it difficult for us to resist checking email, even when we've only just looked.The obvious solution is to process email in batches, but this is difficult. One company delayed delivery by five minutes, but had so many complaints that they had to revert to instantaneous delivery. People knew that there were emails there, and chafed at the bit to get hold of them.Another solution might be the notification systemGrowl- which puts up a brief message on the screen with details such as the sender and subject line while the user is in other programs. Presently only available for Mac OS X, a version is being tested for Windows; though this, of course, causes the interruptions you are trying to avoid. Companies are beginning to take these problems seriously, although the "no email days" favoured by Deloitte and Intel have not proven effective. Deloitte's "no email Wednesday" wasabandoned after a monthand Intel found that there was a "clear incompatibility" between the need of the pilot group to communicate asynchronously with colleagues and theavoidance of email for a whole day. No email days don't work, says Stafford, "because they don't help people to change their behaviour while they are actually using email. Once your email is back, you're going to respond to it in the same old ways unless you replace your bad habits."Tools for the jobInstead, it's better to replace email with more appropriate tools. Roo Reynolds, a "metaverse evangelist" who is joining the BBC to work with social media, has moved away from email for everything but the most formal communications. Instead, "I use other tools, where people are more comfortable hanging out. I've got a whole set of contacts who love Twitter, and if I want to reach them quickly then that's where they'll be."Reynolds has even begun to think of email as "rude" and invasive, preferring to use tools such as Twitter and Flickr. He also uses social networking sites such as Dopplr, which tracks people's travel, to find out if they are away before he contacts them, and status alerts from instant messenger or Twitter to help him decide if now is a good time to interrupt them. Other tools, such as blogs and wikis, have decreased the amount of email that he sends and receives, while RSS feeds and recommendations from friends and colleagues allow him to keep abreast of the most important news.For a tool that business depends so heavily on, we put little thought into how we use email. Dr Karol Szlichcinski, a business psychologist, recommends providing guidelines and training to give people "ways of reducing the disruption caused by email, ways of managing email so that it doesn't run your day. Organisational norms build up, and people come to expect others to answer emails within a given timeframe, whether that email is important or not."We may think email is simple, but its ease of use is deceptive. For many, it's a boon, but for an increasing majority it's the tail that wags the dog.How to keep control of that runaway inboxIf you find your mouse straying towards the "check email" button far too often, try these tactics:&middot;Turn off intrusive alerts. Anything that pops up, flashes, or goes "ding!" will interrupt you when you're trying to focus and will trigger a response to check your email.&middot;Set your email client to display just the title and first few lines of the email, so you can easily decide if it really is important enough to deal with right now.&middot;Use other tools. Twitter and instant messaging (IM) are both better for asking short questions of chosen groups. Wikis are better for collaborating on documents. Blogs are better for publishing information and having informal conversations.&middot;Send fewer emails. Do you need to hit "reply to all"?&middot;Schedule your email. Set aside time each day to deal with your inbox and ignore it for the rest of the day. Most people check first thing in the morning and late afternoon.Suw Charman-Andersonis an expert in collaboration and communications
Robot warsThe problem with our type of cleverness is, of course, that it so often translates into ever more ingenious ways of killing other humans (Swarms of robots join the army, August 21). As it stands, we can only hope that when our robots truly become intelligent, they will not also inherit our innate and very human viciousness.gal.darkervision.com"In just over five years, the swarms of robots in the British armed forces will outnumber the soldiers." Oh great...ruleset.orgThe MoD must be very, very pleased. Its Grand Challenge, which I've blogged about previously, has won tremendous coverage (robots, urban warfare, Salisbury Plain - you remember). This piece in today's Technology section of the Guardian is very good. Not least because it doesn't go for the obvious let's-talk-to-the-winners angle.takingoutthetrash.typepad.co.ukThese military advances are increasingly necessary because Western audiences cannot stomach human losses in war anymore. But more importantly, miniscule, expendable insect-like robots can track down terrorists in urban settings without putting soldiers in harm's way and reducing collateral damage to civilians.The fear becomes whether an enemy can infiltrate your control system or if the robots become so autonomous that they are out of your control. In 10-20 years, military forces will be completely transformed. This is just the beginning.gottliebreport.blogspot.comIn defence of OSWe are more than happy that the Guardian has shown this interest in the way that Ordnance Survey communicates about the important work that we do (Ordnance Survey hires PR company to lobby politicians, August 21).It is because Ordnance Survey data is so vital that parliamentarians and other important stakeholders expect us to communicate with them about our work. That is why we engage with politicians from all parties who care about the services that we provide. We have a duty to inform them on our role collecting the data needed to map every feature on the landscape, and how we intend to maintain the quality of this sophisticated data going forward.We're committed to the best possible communications with all our stakeholders, now and in the future.Nicole Perry,head of public affairs, Ordnance SurveyI'm not at all surprised to learn that OS is paying political lobbyists, but it does feel completely underhand. These people are supposed to be professional civil servants, for Christ's sake. They're supposed to be impartial; their input into government is supposed to go through the proper chain, through their department and their minister. Their input into the political process should not go through a bunch of hack lobbyists, paid for out of the public purse, simply because the management of OS are not up to the job of making a decent case with their minister. It's unconscionable.I've long referred to the trading fund model as nothing more than legalised money laundering, and this does little to make me change my mind.sawyl.livejournal.comDate your podcastsPlease could you include the date at the start of each [Tech Weekly] podcast? Sometimes I have several backed up on my MP3 and knowing their sequence would be very helpful [when I cannot get to read a display, eg when driving].Enjoy the programme, keep up the good work, and thanks to all the team.Peter Williams,by emailRed face of 'oops'Sorry for the pedantry, but the dreaded "red ring of death" [on the Xbox 360] only has 3 of the sectors lit. [Last time you wrote about it] you showed the "red ring of we didn't plug in an AV cable".Steve Cartwright,London&#183;Write to: Letters, TechnologyGuardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London, EC1R 3ER. Telephone: 020 7239 9925. Fax: 020 7239 9933.Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
Ordnance Survey, Britain's biggest trader in government information, has robustly defended its use of a lobbying firm, Mandate Communications, to communicate with MPs and other politicians.In a letter to the Guardian, Nicole Perry, head of public affairs, says that the organisation engages "with politicians of all parties who care about the services we provide". "We have a duty to inform them on our role collecting the data needed to map every feature on the landscape, and how we intend to maintain the quality of this sophisticated data," she writes.The Free Our Data campaign agrees with Perry that the need to educate opinion-makers about geographical data in the digital age is an important part of its public task. However, a study of the 361 printed pages of correspondence between OS and Mandate, obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, suggests that its publicity campaign strays into broader areas of government policy. In particular, on the question of whether it and other information agencies should continue to be run as trading funds, required to cover their costs by charging for access to data. (The Free Our Data campaign argues that this policy hampers state and community initiatives to make better use of data.)Among the papers we received is an account of a seminar on trading funds, organised on April 29 by Locus, an industry body which represents users of public sector information (and which retains its own lobbyist, a firm called Quintus Public Affairs). In an email to Perry, a Mandate executive reveals that she attended the seminar, accompanied by a colleague "Eleanor", and reports back "on comments from the meeting that you should be aware of". These include the views of Locus's chairman, "Bryan Carlsberg" (sic - his name is Carsberg) that member companies should talk to the Conservative party on this issue "as they are currently looking for proposals for their manifesto".Ordnance Survey's use of a lobby firm to engage in the free data debate is likely to be on the agenda at the next meeting of the government's Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information next month.On April 24 this year, Mandate alerted Perry that a Conservative MP, Greg Clark, had tabled a question about the relationship with Mandate. The email urged Perry to "please rest assured" that Clark had asked many such questions, and that the information needed in response is "minimal". We will see whether Ordnance Survey's minister follows that advice.&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
A PC for editing AVCI've bought a new HD video camera which records in AVCHD. When I looked at the Pinnacle editing software supplied with it, I read that the minimum requirements include an Intel quad core processor running at 2.66GHz. I have consulted PC World, Dell and HP, and none has a home computer running at this speed. What can I do?Richard CookeJS:AVCHD is one of the high-definition movie standards used by Blu-ray and HD DVD and allows for pictures that are 1,920 x 1,080 pixels. It is a highly compressed format, to save space, but as a consequence it requires a great deal of processing power to reconstruct the original image. What the camera salesmen don't tell you is that just displaying 25 of these large images a second is beyond many PCs, unless they have accelerated graphics. Editing them can be a nightmare, and a common approach (taken by Apple's Final Cut Pro, among others) is to transcode them into something that is easier to handle. TheWikipedia page on AVCHSlists some of these converters.Editing native AVCHD is not, of course, beyond reach. However, such powerful PCs are generally not off-the-shelf items, but assembled to order. First, pick your Intel Core 2 Quad processor from Intel's spec sheet: the Q6700 is the cheap 2.66GHz chip, but there's a newer, better 2.83GHz version, theQ9550. Next, look for a PC with that Q number, 4GB or 8GB of memory, and 64-bit Windows Vista. An example is theMesh Xtreme X9550GTXwith a Q9550, 8GB of memory, a terabyte of hard drive space, Blu-ray player and 24 inch widescreen monitor displaying 1,920 x 1,200 for &pound;1,199 inc VAT.On its own, Pinnacle Studio 12 will run OK on a 1.6 GHz Dual Core processor with 1GB of memory, so the problem is down to the videos you want to edit. You could reduce the PC hardware requirements by reducing the size of your videos. Instead of shooting 1,080p, for example, you could use 1,440 x 1,080 or go down to 720p (1,280 x 720 pixels), like broadcast HDTV. However, my experience is that editing MPeg-2 movies is a pig on a fast Pentium, and I'd expect editing MPeg-4 Part 10 (ie AVC) to be much piggier even on a quad core PC. I'd want more power, not less.Newsletter mailingI run a small business from home, and send a regular newsletter. I have a TalkTalk phone and broadband package. I now find that I am unable to send more than about 20 newsletters in a block.Annie HallJS:I can't find any mention of this on the TalkTalk website, but internet service providers usually limit the number of emails you can send at once, to discourage spamming. However, I'd have thought 100 was a more reasonable number than 20. You could try contacting TalkTalk for help, but ISP email services are not a selling point but an overhead that I suspect most would rather be rid of. Larger companies, including the Guardian, often use outside services such ascheetahmail.comandjangomail.comto send out promotional emails. You could try a local supplier such asSubscribed: there must be lots. These companies tend to be hostile towards anything "spammy" as it could affect their business.Maximising battery lifeWhat are your top tips for maximising the life of rechargeable batteries?Richard BrownJS:Different kinds of battery require different approaches, so it's a bigger topic than it sounds. However,BatteryUniversity.comprovides comprehensive coverage and a handy summary intable form. With the increasingly common Lithium-ion (Li-ion) types, the main advice is not to discharge them more than once a month: try to recharge them when they are on 20% or so. Alas, they are only good for a limited number of cycles and age even if not used. They may need replacing after 18-24 months or 350-500 cycles, but can last longer. It's always worth checking the device's manual for information and advice.Blogs by locationIs there a way to search blogs by location?J BourtoniJS:Not really. There are blogs from all over the world sitting on the same servers run by American companies such as Google (Blogger) and Microsoft (Spaces), and there is no easy way to tell them apart. However, there are sites you can try, such asBlogdigger Local,PlaceBlogger.com,feedmap.netandGlobe of Blogs. Bloggers who want to be found geographically can make it easier by submitting their sites. In the longer term, there's a 10-year plan involving 74 nations calledGeoss, for Global Earth Observation System of Systems, which should encourage more location awareness. So should Yahoo's newFire Eagle.Backchat&middot;Alec Williams was transferring data from an old PC. John Davies says: "I bought Transfer MyPC from Dell to move all my old data across. It did the job very well." Windows Vista has a built-in program, Windows Easy Transfer, and you can downloadWindows Easy Transfer Companionto move programs.&middot;Cathy Matheson wanted a laptop for her son, who is going to study architecture. On the Ask Jack blog, Webweasel said: "As a recently qualified architect, I would wait and see what the facilities are like at the university in question. I would not advise buying any hardware or software until your son is a student, as generous discounts are available."&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Technology is designed for people to use. The only trouble is that computer interfaces on all types of devices from the home to the car can frustrate many users. But most software interfaces have been designed with a one-size-fits-all approach for mass markets.It's a problem that has dogged computer scientists for more than 25 years. But now, researchers at the University of Washington have had a breakthrough of sorts that's allowed them to generate custom interfaces automatically optimised for each individual's preferences, such as vision, clicking movements and speed.Simply put, the software runs the would-be user through a battery of skill tests, and then runs the data generated through a sophisticated set of mathematical algorithms to produce an optimised interface.Researchers recall that "oh shit" moment of insight that inspired several years of dedicated work to solve the problem. Six years ago, the University of Washington campus was drenched in the colours of autumn foliage, and Krzysztof Gajos, a young doctoral computer science candidate, was meeting his advising Prof Dan Weld to discuss ideas for a thesis. The talk veered into the problems of user interfaces and how poorly they're designed and work for people.Face factsThe pair's shared disdain for poorly designed interfaces served as a catalyst for Gajos to focus his intellectual energy in overcoming a set of challenges that had stumped scientists for many years."We found that the software we used was designed for somebody else," says Gajos. "Assistive technologies are built on the assumption that it's the people who have to adapt to the technology. We tried to reverse this assumption, and make the software adapt to people."Easier said than done. Automatically generating a user interface specifically optimised for individual preferences turns out to be a very complex problem. In fact, there are one hundred million billion different possible user interfaces, says Gajos.To go through the possibilities you'd have to run 1,000 of them per second for one million years - a bit more computation than even blazing fast computers can handle at a reasonable cost. "This is a hard technical problem," says Gajos. Weld adds that "past approaches in computer science just hasn't worked."Building a software interface is analogous to building a home. An architect takes into consideration all of the constraints involved in building a house, such as the geography, sun, soil, building guidelines and the future owner's personal likes and dislikes. And those elements are used by the architect to generate a design. Doing that same task automatically is tough.Gajos overcame the problem by developing a set of software algorithms that automatically generates a user interface based on four basic user-defined parameters. First, it selects the optimal functional elements like buttons, pull-downs, lists etc. Second, it decides how to lay out those functional elements in a window.Third, it decides how to divide the space into a single window or as separate tabs. And fourth, it selects the size of a button to be used. The genius of the Supple system is its ability to predict how often a user will use a certain element, how much time is saved by using certain elements and the overall impact to performance.To gather that information, each person is put through abrief skills testthat typically takes a few minutes. The Supple system then generates a mathematically based version of the user interface optimised for his or her vision and motor abilities.One for allThe innovation harnessed by Gajos was coming up with a unique algorithm that combines artificial intelligence, optimisation approaches and decision theory. And it was the unique combination of those computer science techniques and economic theories that allowed Gajos to make it work.Apaper describing the system, Improving the Performance of Motor-impaired Users With Automatically-generated, Ability-based Interfaces, was presented at the July 15 meeting of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence.Gajos recently became a Microsoft Research fellow and will spend the next 11 months of a one-year stint working on Supple before heading next year to Harvard University to teach.The impressive part of Gajos' work is how well the Supple system has done in closing the gap for end-users' likes and dislikes. Tests showed the system closed the performance gap between disabled and able-bodied users. The researchers believe Supple can generate user-interface applications for a wide variety of different devices and computer systems, including the mobile phone and PDAs. And the best part of the system is it generates the interface automatically and from scratch.To make Supple work with today's existing operating systems and applications would require some serious renovation of the software programs. "We're not at the point where Microsoft can license the code and release it in the next version of its operating system ... it is a research prototype," says Weld.Supple, however, does work with web-based applications without having to make modifications from the bottom up like is the case in other applications. "We're still a couple of years away before people could use this in a real application," says Gajos.And when that day comes, it will surely help generate a sea change in the industry whereby the interface technology will no longer require people to mold to its parameters, but rather the technology will mold to the person.
The number of models of "Liliputer" - low-cost ultraportable PCs running Windows or Linux - has exploded to more than 100 in less than a year, according toLiliputing.com, a site put together by the freelance journalist Brad Linder.Since the introduction of the OLPC XO laptop last year, more than a dozen manufacturers have leapt into the space, spotting the potential for sales to children and schools - and, perhaps surprisingly, to adults keen to work while moving around but unwilling to carry fully fledged laptops.Manufacturers have very high hopes for the burgeoning category. Intel said earlier this year it thinks shipments of low-cost ultraportables could exceed 100m by 2011, while Asus forecast in April that it would sell 10m of its Eee PCs this year, and 20m in 2009. Even Dell has moved into the space, launching its E4200 and E4300 models earlier this month. They use solid-state drives based on Flash memory - a common feature of ultraportables - and the company claims they can achieve up to 19 hours of battery life, though that requires an add-on battery.The rise of ultraportables was forecast in March in Technology Guardian, which noted that the Eee PC's first version had won plaudits from users - and that nobody seemed to have noticed that it used Linux rather than Windows (Why falling Flash prices threaten Microsoft, March 6).That suggested that ultraportables would provide a huge boost for Linux over Windows because using the free operating system would give them a price advantage over Windows, for which manufacturers have to pay a licence for installation - and what that might mean for Microsoft.Now even high street companies are beginning to use liliputers as a come-on for customers, while barely mentioning that they run Linux. Maplin has begun selling its own-brand "Minibook" costing &pound;170, which only mentions amid the other details that it uses the "easy to use Linux operating system".Gartner has forecast that ultraportables (which it prefers to call "mini-notebooks") will show strong growth over the coming years. It reckons that this year 5.2m will be sold, 8m in 2009 and as many as 50m in 2012.Annette Jump, research director at Gartner, said: "Potential users are likely to include both first-time buyers seeking a low-cost introductory PC as well as experienced users seeking a low-cost second or third PC for themselves or a relative."
Why has Dr John Bond, scientific support manager for Northamptonshire Police, been sent evidence by Boulder City Police Department in Colorado? It's because he's developing a new forensic technique that no other police force has. Thanks to his expertise, he's found a partial fingerprint on a 9mm brass cartridge case used in a 14-year-old Boulder City murder.Trained as a physicist, Bond has worked as a research fellow at the University of Sussex and even installed NHS software. He then joined Northamptonshire Police as the scientific support manager and, thanks to collaborative work with the University of Leicester, is now an honorary research fellow there, too.When he read a scientific paper from Swansea University two years ago, he noticed this: "A serendipitous finding of our research is that the physical removal of a fingermark [fingerprint] from a metal surface, eg by rubbing with a tissue, may not necessarily mean that all the fingermark pattern information is lost." That research, measuring electrical potential to reveal latent fingerprints, was carried out by Prof Neil McMurray and Dr Geraint Williams.Pointing the fingerBond found the idea immediately intriguing. But, first, what is a fingerprint? "What you've leaving is an impression of your fingerprint ridges in sweat," says Bond. Sweat is complex stuff: water, inorganic salts like sodium chloride, and other compounds like oils. Physical and chemical techniques help make these latent impressions visible.The researchers further suggested a reaction between sweat and the metal, making Bond consider the latter's electrical conducting properties. He then wondered whether the affected areas might show a different potential if a 2,500 volt electrostatic charge was applied - helping to reveal the original fingerprint.Going from inspiration to results has been tough. "The challenge has been incorporating it into the day job," says Bond, who likes doing practical physics and solving scientific problems. Close cooperation with the University of Leicester has also helped. Everything needed, like a 2,500 volt supply, has been made, to save money. Working all hours, Bond even machined a tilting platform in brass at home. "Anything we want, we make," he says."It's notoriously difficult to enhance fingerprints on brass gun cartridge cases. What you really want is the fingerprint of the guy who loaded the gun, not somebody who could say: 'I picked up the spent cartridge case in the road after it had been fired.' That's the key evidence you're after - who loaded the gun."When you handle a live round, you leave fingerprints behind. A couple of days later, and your sweat has very slightly corroded the metal through a chemical reaction. But once the gun is fired, sweat deposits are instantly vaporised which makes conventional fingerprinting useless.An early discovery is that firing the gun works in Bond's favour. "If you heat the metal up after you put the fingerprint on, corrosion takes place instantaneously." That's also useful for arson investigation.All this has been experimentally investigated. Various metal disks and brass cartridge cases are touched by volunteers, left for different periods (and sometimes heated), then washed in hot soapy water. "Anything left is the result of some chemical reaction initially between the [fingerprint] deposit and the metal," says Bond.Next, a 2,500 volt electrostatic charge is applied, followed by a fine carbon powder which sticks preferentially where sweat has corroded the metal - revealing the fingerprint pattern. His homemade tilting platform is used with tiny spherical beads to roll the conducting powder over the sample.What makes it stick though? "It's classic electrostatic physics," says Bond who believes that changes in the atomic structure (perhaps copper oxides) makes the metal slightly less good (by 10-12 volts) as a conductor.Big shotNow patented, the nondestructive electrostatic enhancement process for fingerprint recovery has been successfully tested on spent brass cartridge cases. Publication in a scientific journal then led to a plea for help from Boulder City police."All casings have been subject to conventional fingerprint enhancement with negative result," says BondBond heated the brass casings to around 600C (1,100F) to react any remaining fingerprint salts, then applied 2,500 volts and the conducting powder. "On one case I was able to develop a (very) partial fingerprint. Needless to say, the guys in Boulder were amazed that we had turned anything up." More US enquiries have been received and further research with the University of Leicester is planned.Prof Pierre Margot, of the University of Lausanne and a co-author of Fingerprints and Other Ridge Skin Impressions, thinks Bond's work is an interesting development. "I do not really see any disadvantages and if it allows to detect even one print where other techniques fail, this can be described as a success," says Margot.
Until this generation of hardware, game worlds were essentially dead. Beyond a few token splatters of mud and the odd unconvincing weather effect, the complex interplay of organic and elemental forces that shape our own environment were beyond the technical limitations of games machines. But with multicore PCs, Xbox 360 and PS3, physics is coming to the fore - game developers are investing into virtual worlds the same simulations of underlying systems that now enliven character animations.Ubisoft's forthcoming shooter Far Cry 2, for example, uses a realistic fire propagation system - torch an enemy hut, and if the wind is strong enough, you'll have a bushfire before you know it. Less dramatically, in the cute downloadable PS3 title Flower, you control the wind as it guides hundreds of floating petals through a rich natural environment. But what of water? Realtime fluid dynamics is a largely untouched area in games, for one compelling reason: it is mind-blowingly complicated. Graphics card giant NVIDIA has only just released its first demo showingrealtime water movement.The first game implementation will be forthcoming the sci-fi adventure Hydrophobia, developed by Blade Interactive. Trapped on a huge floating city, which is rapidly sinking, the player must battle an unpredictable sea that floods rooms in seconds, battering lead character Kate Wilson with tides and currents. Blade's R&amp;D head, Huw Lloyd, learned all he knows about fluid from his PhD in astrophysics. He developed the fluid-mechanics engine that supplies Hydrophobia with a realistic watery environment -see the demo.As the lead games designer, Rob Hewson explains: "The fundamental simulation provides the position, direction and velocity at every point in a fluid body, and that information is used to trigger a whole host of effects like surface foam, spray and splashes, underwater particles and bubbles." Why is this important? In this case, fluid provides puzzles and challenges - you can use it to flush out, mislead or drown enemies, or use it to elevate Kate to a higher area.Environments loaded with genuine physics form a real, unpredictable element of the experience. In military shooters, players will need to assess weather conditions before launching an attack - will the torrential rain provide cover, or will it cause that nearby river to burst its banks and engulf your vehicles? The future is about games in which emergent behaviour is as much a part of the scenery as well as the enemy AI and the sand box design structure. This is the point at which dead worlds come alive.
Is research that uncovers flaws in transportation fare payment systems so dangerous as to justify censorship? That issue is being litigated once again ina legal casebrought by the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) against three MIT students and MIT itself. The MBTA uses an automated fare collection system (CharlieTicket and CharlieCard) somewhat similar to London's Oyster card. Also similarly, the security of the system has been broken and researchers found themselves in court as a result.A conference presentation was cancelled, and the students were subjected to a gag order regarding their work. The Electronic Frontier Foundation has led theopposition to the gagging, as part of a Coders' Rights Project "to protect programmers and developers from legal threats hampering their cutting-edge research".The legal complaint is a hash of inventive accusations, ranging from a claim that the defendants engaged in unfair and deceptive acts in trade or commerce (for which the MBTA wants triple damages), to asserting that MIT was negligent in its supervision.A key charge was based on a law called the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, which in part forbids "transmission of a program, information, code or command [which] intentionally causes damage without authorisation, to a protected computer", causing certain specified harm.If some terms are construed extremely vaguely and broadly, presenting security flaws can be claimed to constitute transmitting damaging information in violation of the law. A judge was convinced to side with the MBTA on this point initially, but later another judgelifted the gag order. But many charges remain unresolved.There are many principled reasons for openness in discussion of breaches, otherwise vendors have an incentive to hide problems and delay the costs of fixing vulnerabilities (Why being open about security makes us all safer in the long run). But even people who advocate restricting disclosures should condemn the twisting of laws intended to fight computer crime into weapons of legal harassment. We have been going down thisslippery slope with copyright lawand now see prohibitions against cracking into systems being used against academic investigations.And make no mistake, the consequences of being dragged through court can be ruinous.A while ago, in reaction to a pundit who described the outcome of many lawsuit threats against researchers as having "happy endings", the Princeton professor Ed Feltenriposted: "Let's catalog the happy consequences of our case. One person lost his job, and another nearly did. Countless hours of pro-bono lawyer time were consumed. Anonymous donors gave up large amounts of money to support our defense ... the ending was that we were able to publish our work."The public may hear of the lawsuits where a target has sufficient resources or enough support to fight back, but anyone who is chilled will never be heard from. The publicised cases are the canaries in coalmines, indicating a real potential for suffocation.Further, while it's often said that legal action is the best way to insure that would-be suppressed material is spread far and wide, that thought doesn't take into account all the times when intimidation works. If one only hears about people who don't succumb to chilling effects, and never about those who do, it's easy to fallaciously conclude there's no problem. It's a comforting belief that censorious lawsuits are intrinsically self-defeating, and hence brought only by fools who don't realise how they will swiftly receive an ironic comeuppance. In truth, practical strategic considerations are very complex, and pragmatically each side benefits by increasing costs and uncertainty for the other.As specialised computer systems become more and more integrated into the utilitarian functioning of society, we will repeatedly face issues of their potential for subversion, corruption, and failure. While open disclosure of security weaknesses may seem troublesome, the alternative is to follow an Orwellian concept of "ignorance is strength".sethf.com/infothought/blog
One wonders quite what point companies now see in trying to make new MP3 players. Isn't it an experience akin to being some small mollusc digging down into the sand as the tide goes out? Between the dominance of the iPod and the gradual shift of music-playing functions on to phones - where one feels it's sure to end up, finally (as even Apple clearly believes) - what's left for digital music player makers?Enough, it seems, to interest SanDisk, which has launched the Sansa Fuze and Clip, both Flash memory-based players, of which the Fuze (&pound;90 for the 8GB version) is the bigger version able to play back videos and show photos - on its 1.9-inch screen. Hardly the cinema, but it might be entertaining enough in a bus shelter in the rain.They're slim and small - the Fuze is slightly longer than the present incarnation of the iPod nano, and the Clip (about &pound;60 for the 4GB version) about half the Fuze's size (with a clip on the back). The sound is good enough; I won't pretend my ears or music encoding are good enough to let me distinguish the difference between good, great and average, but if you're going to have these on the bus will you really notice sound quality?They're both notably cheaper than comparable Apple products, which means it comes down to the interface. At which point one stumbles because it's not like the iPod layout. Yes, there is a scroll wheel with five click areas (top, sides, bottom, centre); but there's also a button at the top right, with a "home" logo.This is confusing. If you're playing a song and want to go to the menu to tweak something, you press Home. OK. And now you want to go back to the song. How? By pressing Home, it transpires.I did get used to it, after a few days; but that one button always seemed like an extra layer of complication. On the Clip, you have to discover the menu function (it's the up click).There's no consistency between the players, despite them having the same buttons on the front. Both players have FM radios - though I found the reception to be patchy. The Fuze can up its storage dramatically, via fingernail-sized MicroSD cards able to hold up to 4GB. The Clip has a small screen, unlike the iPod shuffle, but it's more like a weeny iPod nano than a shuffle.I know what you're wanting me to tell you: are these iPod killers? In a word, no. But the question long ago became pointless. The iPod isn't going to be killed by another music player. SanDisk has come up with keenly priced products here, but the battle has already moved on.Pros:low price, small, neat; expandable (Fuze)Cons:Quirky interfacego.shopsansa.com
Perhaps the greatest tribute paid by the games world to the skill, attention to detail and single-minded focus in Grand Theft Auto is exemplified by the small number of games that blatantly try to rip it off. So one has to applaud Pandemic's ambition in creating Mercenaries 2, a free-roaming, sandbox-style action-adventure game, which is pretty much a militarised take on the GTA blueprint. It proves to be a worthwhile effort: you play a mercenary caught in a coup in Venezuela, which splits into factions such as the new government, a sinister oil company and a guerrilla army. Seeking revenge on the new dictator (one of whose goons shot you in the backside), you run missions for the different factions, supported by a mechanic, general co-ordinator, and helicopter and jet pilots. Wisely, Mercenaries 2 doesn't try to emulate GTA IV's mega-detailed storyline. But it looks great, is nicely fettled, occasionally makes you grin and takes place against an impressively detailed backdrop. Nobody would say it breaks new ground, but it's absorbing enough to keep you occupied for weeks.
Tongue driveResearchers at Georgia Tech are developing aTongue Drive systemthat uses a small magnet attached to the tongue, allowing severely disabled people to control a wheelchair or a computer.Niue leads the worldThe tiny South Pacific island of Niue is the first to provide all its children with a laptop and free internet access, after receiving 500free OLPCs.Photosynth has wide visionMicrosoft Live Labs has finally releasedPhotosynth, which can combine hundreds of photos to create panoramasEugene goes to war museumThe Kaspersky co-founder Eugene Kaspersky will speak at the company'sCybercrime Forumat the Imperial War Museum, London on September 17.Free fantasy gamesUK players can play Bigpoint's multiplayer games, DarkOrbit and Seafight, via NBC'sSci-Fi Channel website.Samsung's 8 megapixelsNext month is the launch of the Symbian-basedSamsung i8510, the first 8-megapixel cameraphone in the UK.Ten for dictatorsNuance has announced the long-awaited version 10 of itsDragon NaturallySpeakingvoice-recognition software.Banking on TrojansF-Secure saysthere were almost 25,000 banking Trojans in July alone - up 87% from the start of 2006.
Summer is over and it's time to deal with all the snaps vegetating in your digital camera or cameraphone. It is a fair bet that despite the weather more photos were taken this summer than in any previous one, as a result of the explosive growth in digital cameras. Hundreds of companies are falling over themselves to host your photos for nothing. There are three categories: websites offering many gigabytes of free storage, a raft of places dedicated to photos andvideos plus a new generation offering to archive your entire life online - if they are still there in 50 years.In terms of numbers, photo-hosting is turning into a three-horse race with Yahoo'sFlickr, Google'sPicasaandPhotobucketin the lead, each with around 40 million regular visitors, withImageShacktrailing in fourth place, according to recent ComScore figures.I am a Flickr fan and will stay for the moment because of its great community, but I have to admit the improvements Google will soon release for Picasa (a startup it bought a few years ago) are extremely impressive. There is a host of new features but the scene stealer is image recognition. I uploaded 80 photos from the iPhoto collection on my Mac (Windows has even more features) to Picasa through the Export function. They all contained faces. Picasa scanned the images (ie not tags) and presented them in groups of faces with similar patterns including many plucked from the background of a photo, all ready for me to add a name or email address. So in years to come, all the snaps of Granny Bertha could be culled from obscurity by a single search made by grandchildren.But that assumes your host site will still be there in the next century - and even if it is, computers or formats may have changed so much they will be inaccessible. This issue - which the British Library's Digital Lives project is addressing - is vital because numerous websites are in the pipeline, offering to become an archive or diary of your entire life. This offers the prospect of our lives being revisited 100 years hence not just by our descendants but by historians who could have access to a cornucopia of information about the way we live today.Some of these sites are UK-based, such asthetimesofmylife.org, soon to be launched in the Cabinet Rooms by that personification of nostalgia, Dame Vera Lynn. This is not your typical Silicon Valley startup. It has been devised by Mark Hickman, who until a month ago worked in a paint shop. It is not available for pre-launch testing but will provide a timeline diary, in which you can put up photos, video, text, etc of your entire life day by day, including interviews with relatives. It sounds like a more practical version of the sophisticated Oxford start-up miomi.com, which attracted a blaze of publicity when venture capitalists swarmed around it but now just carries the message "Service is currently unavailable". These UK start-ups face competition from the likes ofdandelife.com, and alsowiseline.com, which chronicles your life in one long "life graph" and can be embedded in Facebook or wherever.The proliferation of lifetime diaries makes longevity a big issue. But there are some simple steps you can take to ensure your place in history. First, save all your files with a unique tag such as john-smithwxyz so, in theory, someone in 50 years can access all the relevant records with a single search term. Second, save images in multiple formats (eg Jpeg and Tiff) in case one becomes obsolete. Third, back up on to the web (via the huge storage that Google, Yahoo, Microsoft etc offer for nothing) as well as your hard disk and/or an external storage facility, such as a hard drive, that plugs into your computer's USB port.Above all, there is surely an opportunity for a trusted independent archive, maybe an offshoot of the British Library, which will secure all our data and still be there in future for our families or historians to delve into. That discussion has barely started.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
It's the worst of times, it's the best of times to be writing a game that works just like a really well-known one. The travails ofScrabulous, the Scrabble (&reg; &trade; &copy; and all that guff) playalike, have been well-documented: its meteoric rise to fame via the splendid timesink Facebook, the lawsuit by Mattel and Hasbro (which own the online rights but hadn't quite managed to get around to writing a version while Scrabulous began raking in the cash - reckoned to be thousands of dollars a month) and the diversion into a side road with Wordscraper, where you use round rather than square tiles. And Hasbro/Mattel have come up with an "official" version that everyone really, really hates. It's slow, it's advert-loaded, it's just corporate.Meanwhile, over on the iPhone - whose success as a development platform surely has Steve Jobs rubbing his hands with glee - Noah Witherspoon, the maker of a Tetris-alike game called Tris, hasremoved it,under pressure from the Tetris company which - guess what - owns the rights to the real game. Tris was popular, free and fast to load. By contrast,says John Gruber,a well-versed commentator on the iPhone scene, "the official iPhone Tetris ... costs $10 and takes 30 seconds to launch".Are you seeing a pattern here? Scrabble was, once upon a time, scrabbling around to capture attention, the product of a man trying to escape the grind of the Depression; his analysis of how often letters appear in a language, and the creation of the iconic grid of squares with their scores was, in hindsight, a masterstroke. Similarly Tetris, which emerged from the CPU-constrained Soviet Union, squeezed more addictive gameplay into fewer lines of code than anyone had imagined possible before.But now those games are owned by big organisations which, as is typical, are hidebound by their size. Write a brisk little version of the game? Sure! But we just have to check with the marketing department first what colours we're using this year. And is the background meant to have Russian spires? Which version of the logo? Are we changing the logo? How often should it appear?In the meantime, small developers run rings around them. The problem those small developers have is that they can't run rings around the law; and while the courts often grind slow, they grind exceedingly small.The puzzle, though, is why the big companies think that their solutions are inherently better than the small developers? Lyndon Johnson, as US president, said in private of the FBI boss J Edgar Hoover - who he didn't entirely trust - that he'd rather have him in the tent pissing out than the alternative. It seems that there aren't any adept politicians in Hasbro, Mattel or Tetris; nor even EA, which could hire Witherspoon with ease and get all the benefit of his experience on the iPhone platform. (There's a suggestion that the reason this hasn't happened with Scrabulous is that the Agarwalla brothers are asking too much. In which case the lawsuit is, as I'vespeculated on the Technology blogsimply a way for Hasbro and Mattel to get it cheaper.)Again and again we can see that it's the small developers who do the interesting things: the Wordpress blog platform, even PHP (the web scripting language on which Wordpress blogging is built), and of course those games all kicked off as one-person efforts. While we can understand that the internet makes everyone level in some ways, by making all sites equally accessible, I think there's a lesson yet unlearned - that it gives the smaller organisations (perhaps just one person) a huge advantage over the big ones. Game on, you might say.
PC Pro's ProBlog has turned up a tiny PC that really is tiny: about 2 inches square. It's running Linux on a 300MHz processor, and has plenty of ports.The storysays:Most intriguing, though, is the Space Wire port. It may sound like a mere science fiction fantasy, but this incredibly thin socket is a crucial part of the Space Cube's armoury. That's because it's a type of proprietary interface use by the ESA, NASA and JAXA when the Cube actually goes into space. It's useful for connecting various sensors and processing units to the Space Cube, as well as the complicated-sounding Downlink Telementary Sub-Systems, which sounds like something more akin to Battlestar Galactica or Star Wars than anything used in real life. It turns out that Space Wire is also used as a common interface for linking together modules and electronics that are often designed in different institutions.Alas, you can't buy one -- yet. The Space Cube has been developed in Japan by the Shimafuji Corporation, but if you want one, PC Pro says:your best bet is to keep watching theStar Dundeewebsite. It's an offshoot of the Space Systems Research Group of the University of Dundee. They're planning to sell the Space Cube once a few technical issues are ironed out.The estimated price is "around £1,500".Apologies: link corrected
The Sunday Herald has a stunning story:8 million victims in the world's biggest cyber heist. Even when you can buy that many for, ooh, about £500 on eBay (or just get them sent to you from HMRC - have you had a couple of CDs in the post recently?), what's different here is that it was done, says the Herald, intentionally:A Sunday Herald investigation has discovered that late on Thursday night, a previously unknown Indian hacker successfully breached the IT defences of the Best Western Hotel group's online booking system and sold details of how to access it through an underground network operated by the Russian mafia.It is a move that has been dubbed the greatest cyber-heist in world history. The attack scooped up the personal details of every single customer that has booked into one of Best Western's 1312 continental hotels since 2007.Amounting to a complete identity-theft kit, the stolen data includes a range of private information including home addresses, telephone numbers, credit card details and place of employment.(Deep breathingif you've ever checked into a Best Western. And it makes you wonder: why is it again that they need all those details again? Oh, yeah, a government requirement or something.)Best Western, however,deniesbig chunks of it, calling it "grossly unsubstantiated":The Sunday Herald reporter brought to our attention the possible compromise of a select portion of data at a single hotel; we investigated immediately and provided commentary. Best Western would have welcomed the opportunity to fact-check the story, which would have resulted in more accurate and credible reporting on the part of the newspaper. We have found no evidence to support the sensational claims ultimately made by the reporter and newspaper.It also says it has firewalls (yeah, nobody's ever been hacked who's got a firewall), but has this interesting detail:We collect credit card information only when it is necessary to process a guest's reservation; we restrict access to that information to only those requiring access and through the use of unique and individual, password-protected points of entry; we encrypt credit card information in our systems and databases and in any electronic transmission over public networks; and again, we delete credit card information and all other personal information upon guest departure.It's that "delete upon departure" bit that's interesting.But then it added some more: ah, apparently there was something unusual last Thursday:on August 21, 2008, three separate attempts were made via a single log-on ID to access the same data from a single hotel. The hotel in question is the 107-room Best Western Hotel am Schloss Kopenick in Berlin, Germany, where a Trojan horse virus was detected by the hotel's anti-virus software. The compromised log-in ID permitted access to reservations data for that property only. The log-in ID was immediately terminated, and the computer in question has been removed from use.We can also confirm that we have been able to narrow down the number of customers affected by this breach to ten. We are currently contacting those customers and offering assistance as needed.So depending on how centralised and for how long Best Western keeps customer details, between 10 and 8 million people were affected by the hack. That's what you could call a wide margin for error.Personally, I still think thatmy own modest proposalof a while ago stands up in these hacker- and non-wiped-disk times: simply fill the database with junk:For credit cards, I think the answer is more numbers - fake ones, to frustrate the hackers. Fill databases of valuable customer information with rubbish, to let the valuable names hide among the cruft. It's far harder to steal a usable number when only one in a hundred is real than when all of them are. The answer there isn't better, but worse quality. We can do that digitally too, you know.
A little late due to technical difficulties, but thelatest episode of our Tech Weekly podcastis finally here. Aleks Krotoski is joined by Bobbie and Jemima to discuss the latest goings-on - and first up is Windows 7, Microsoft's new operating system. After problems with Vista, what can we expect? Jack Schofield andJon Honeyballgive their thoughts. Plus, will location-based services ever hit the mainstream?Rummble.comthinks so - and founder Andrew Scott joins us for an elevator pitch to explain why. Go on, click to listen:it's 24 minutes you won't regret.Listen to the showDownload the showSubscribe for free with iTunesPodcast feed URLCall our Skype voicemailMail us at tech@guardian.co.ukPost a message on the blogGet our Twitter feed for programme updatesJoin our Facebook groupSee our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Next week, finally, theLarge Hadron Colliderwill finally kick into action at Cern in Switzerland - bringing the untold secrets of physicsto light(and, if you believe some people,bringing the universe to an end).Thankfully you don't have to be an idle observer of this amazing launch - because with thishandy operating manual for the LHC, you can join in by learning how to run the machine yourself.(viaMake)
PoddersAleks Krotoski,Bobbie JohnsonandJemima Kissare joined by The Guardian'sJack Schofieldand PC Pro's Jon Honeyball to unlock the secrets behind Microsoft's next generation operating system, code-named Windows 7. What else is going on behind the rumours of multi-touch and enhanced security?They also welcomerummble.com's Andrew Scott into the lift to pitch his location-based recommendation service, based on Yahoo!'s FireEagle. Is the trend towards personalisation encroaching on our personal privacy, or will it break down the boundaries, and make the web work for us all?These stories and more, including the latest from the blogs, including what readers think about Windows 7, and what they think about the latest Lara Croft model.
RememberPsystar? It's the mysterious little company whichstarted making Mac clones, but went fairly quiet after being hit by theinevitable lawsuitfrom Apple. Now the company's back, joining in the great American tradition of sue/countersue bypromising to launch an antitrust lawsuit against Apple, arguing that it should be legally obliged to open up Mac OS X to other hardware makers.
I saw this little gem over onhackaday(via digg):mySQLgameis a quirky App Engine game that has decided to forgo flashy UIs and just stick with the core of the system: a database. You start the game by creating your own row in the shared game database. Game time increments your fuel and money resources every ten seconds. Fuel is spent on scanning other rows and for attacking. Money is used for upgrades and building units. Build up resources and attack your neighbors using database queries, just like any other game. Like a bit more gloss on your internet metagames? Have a look at trolling simulatorForumwarz.Only for the hardest of geeks, or PhD students like me who were forced into a tenuous relationship with databases. There's no irony there. Hours of fun.
Apple has banned the Murderdrome comic book, created by InfuriousComics for the iPhone, "due to the part of the SDK [software development kit] that suggests content must NOT offend anyone in 'Apple's reasonable' opinion," saysInfuriousComics.TechRadar hasa brief interviewwith P J Holden, who says: "After we'd seen the other apps that were banned it wasn't a massive surprise, no. Unfortunately, we were too far ahead in development to stop and start with something new."Apple may be worried that iPhone users don't have quite enough braincells to figure out that if they buy something called Murderdrome, they are not going to get a Disneyfied version ofPeter Rabbit and the Flopsy Bunnies. Or maybe they are just being protective of the huge number of iPhone buyers who are under the age of 14..... Either way, couldn't the problem be solved by having a ratings system, as InfuriousComics suggests?
You may want to checkBad Science(Paperback) by Ben Goldacre (Author) onAmazonor wherever you buy your books. The publication date is Monday, September 1. You can also, of course, read theBad Science columnson our Web site.
An advertisement for Apple's iPhone handset has been shelved after Britain's advertising watchdog ruled that it misled buyers.The Advertising Standards Authority said that a TV promotion had falsely suggested that iPhone users would have unfettered access to the entire internet over their mobile."You never know which part of the internet you'll need," said the advert's voiceover. "Which is why all the parts of the internet are on the iPhone."However two viewers claimed this was misleading, arguing that the iPhone does not support some common technologies used on web pages. Apple had argued that its decision not to support technologies such as Flash and Java only meant that individual parts of some websites - rather than entire sites themselves - were unavailable.The company said its claims were meant to indicate the superior level of internet access the iPhone offered in comparison with rival handsets.The ASA said it had told Apple it must not broadcast the ad again in its current form.The iPhone's lack of support for all content has been a problem for some websites. Some online services, such as the BBC's iPlayer TV catchup service and the video website YouTube, have been forced to come up with new systems built specifically for iPhone users.It is not the first time that Apple has faced claims of incorrect advertising. Last year the ASA considered a number of complaints about adverts for the company's Mac computers starring the comedians David Mitchell and Robert Webb. Despite accusations that its claims about better security were unfounded, the ASA ruled in Apple's favour.The news will come as a blow to the California company's ambitions to become a serious player in the lucrative mobile phone market.The iPhone is now a crucial part of Apple's business, and although it initially received a muted reception from British consumers, a relaunched model with faster 3G networking and built-in satellite navigation appears to have boosted the gadget's fortunes.
Fraps capture of Vista in acton on an old (July 2005) 2GB machineKoroush Ghazi of TweakGuides has written an entertaining guide,Vista Annoyances Resolved, showing some of the problems people have had with Windows Vista, and how to resolve them.In his long intro, he also makes the related points that most of Vista's "problems" are based on people who are either misinformed, ignorant or financially motivated, and that Windows XP suffered in exactly the same way when it came out.Well, maybe some journalists write rubbish about Vista because it attracts hits that generate revenues, as Ghazi thinks, but I suspect more are just technically clueless. In any case, we've pretty much got beyond the (real) problems of bad drivers and inadequate hardware, and we're entering the era where the main problems are ignorance and incompetence. This is always the fun bit of an operating system's progress....Re the video, Ghazi says:At one point (around 1:45 in the video) I have the complex RTHDRIBL Real-Time HDR Tech demo running, combined with Windows Media Player playing a song, Diskeeper doing a full manual drive defragmentation of the drive, and of course Fraps running the whole time in the background to record everything in high quality video and audio - not once do any of the applications freeze, hitch or show signs of problems, and the music never misses a single beat. Try the same thing in XP and see the results for yourself, even without Fraps to record it.
The last couple of days have seen two well-liked, but extremely familiar, games bite the dust thanks to threatened legal action from corporate heavyweights. Scrabulous was withdrawn a while ago in the States but Mattel/Hasbro's word puzzle jihad hasnow extended to the rest of the world- Facebook has removed the app from all territories apart from India, where creators Rajat and Jayant Agarwalla are based. Meanwhile, the brothers are promoting their replacement,Wordscraper, and Hasbro is pushing EA's officialFacebook Scrabblegame, currently only available in the States.Meanwhile, a free iPhone version of Tetris named Tris is apparently being yanked from the App Store after creator Noah Witherspoon received complaints from Apple and The Tetris Company. Witherspoon hasblogged about the threats:The approach they're taking seems to me little more than petty bullying. They have little to no legitimate legal claim, and are, presumably, relying on my being a small developer with insufficient resources to defend myself. And -- hey ho -- it appears to be working. All I can suggest is that, if you have the slightest interest in playing Tris, you download it while you still can.It's interesting. The Flash game scene is built largely on the appropriation and subtle evolution of well-known titles, but the authors usually escape this sort of interference because the distribution network - i.e. the hundreds of online Flash portals - is too complex to aim a threat at. But when similar games appear on well-known platforms, copyright holders instantly perk up.Is this good or bad news for App Store and Facebook? While the bashing of bedroom coders is not exactly a PR triumph, it could stop these burgeoning platforms from becoming repositories of retro rip-offs. Original games don't attract the litigious attentions of large companies.
Continuing my quest to self-indulgently shoehorn art into Gamesblog on a semi-regular basis, here's another exhibition that may well interest readers. Taking place in thecryptof St Pancras church between September 4-17,Illuminifeatures 14 artists whose work is based mostly around the theme of light. Expect lots of neon, special effects and weird uses of illumination, all in a labyrinthine subterranean environment, which served as an air raid shelter in WWII, but is now a regular art venue.Illumini is relevant for two reasons. The contrast between darkened gothic environments and futuristic lighting effects is a reflection of standard FPS design (see Unreal, Quake, etc). Also, it's curated by artistJane Webbwho creates impressive 'cybernetic humanoid sculptures' out of recycled computer parts - there's something very videogame-like in their design. There are lots of shared influences.The opening night - featuring fire performers, light shows and free drinks - is open to all.
It wasleakedvia Canon's Chinese site, but now it'sofficial.The the EOS 50D features a 15.1 megapixel sensor, a 3 inch VGA screen, and can shoot at up to 6.3 frames per second. Also, says Canon: "a new Creative Auto mode offers automatic focus and exposure - while still allowing creative 'tweaks' to settings such as background sharpness."But thisreplacement for the EOS 40Dnew model -- which "sits between the EOS 40D and the full frame EOS 5D" says Canon -- comes as a pretty hefty price:Jessopsis taking orders for the body only at £1,200, whereas Americans will only have to pay $1,400, according toPop Photo.DP Reviewhas more info and a full specification.
I've been living here since 2003, but I still can't make any sense of Britain's love affair with the utility bill. Of all the romanticfixations, why something as ridiculous as a gas bill?My first peek into this bizarre romance came on my second day in London. I marched into the Citibank on the Strand, sat down with a banker and said: "Here are a year's worth of Citibank US statements from my bank in San Francisco; here are a year's worth of Citibank Canada Mastercard statements from my bank in Toronto; here is my brand-new Canadian passport with a brand-new UK residency visa glued into it. Here is some money. I would like to open an account, please."The nice banker took all this in and said: "Well, I'm afraid we'll need to see a utility bill. Something from the gas company, maybe?"That first year in London was a dismal loop of this. Orange wouldn't open my account without a gas bill. I couldn't rent a video without one. Even my local council's parking voucher store won't accept my council tax receipt as proof of residence – they, too, wish to see the almighty gas bill before I can get a voucher to give to the builder, if he ever turns up.Magic billAnd when it came time to renew my UK visa, the Home Office jumped on the bandwagon. It wasn't enough to swear an affidavit and produce the hundreds of pages of documentation about my financial status and residency; they couldn't grant me an extension to my stay until I had magicked up a utility bill.Britain, why do you love your utility bills so? What is it about asimple, laser-printed sheet of A4 that inspires such confidence? Did the manager of Citibank think that Osama in his spider hole was cursing the bad luck he had when he hired a master forger to knock off a perfect Canadian passport for me, spending so much on the effort that he couldn't afford a UKP50 printer/scanner to run up a fictional EDF bill?Gas bills just aren't hard to forge. They aren't designed to be hard to forge. Have a close look at all your bills and count theanti-counterfeiting measures. You won't find any.But the same firms that print these bills – and know how easy they are to produce – treat other firms' bills as though they were imbued with magic security dust. I just ran up a lovely Citibank UK statement made out to Mr Gordon Brown of 10 Downing Street. If I want to open a mobile phone account, they'll (theoretically) accept afaxed copyof this sham document as proof positive (but they won't accept a passport).Likewise, Citibank will happily accept my EDF or BT bill as proof of residence – but not a passport. None of these firms uses anyanti-counterfeiting measures, because it's not Citibank's problem if I rip off EDF with one of its bills, and it's not EDF's problem if I rip off Citibank.Falling into the wrong handsThis isn't just frustrating, it's dangerous. If firms will accept cheap, no-security bills as proof of identity, then stealing someone's identity is that much easier. And the fact that so many firms require you to hand over these documents increases the possibility of your shoddy-but-vital gas bill/identity paper falling into the hands of a crook.This week I decided to order some 32GB SD cards for my video camera. I checked out the cheapest firm on froogle.google.co.uk and placed an order, supplying my credit card details. After the firm had processed the transaction, they called to say that they couldn't ship my goods until I scanned in my bank statement and utility bill and sent them along.They couldn't explain what new security this gave them; a crook who is nefarious enough to intercept my credit card and billing details is also presumably nefarious enough to pirate a copy of Photoshop. Nor could they explain how this was safe forme. I'd never heard of these people, they were just the cheapest listing on a comparison shopping service, and sending along all the information they needed to prove that they were me to, say, a banker or a phone company exposed me to all kinds of risk.The rep was shocked when I declined to hand over my papers – and an email informed me the next day that the funds had already been taken out of my account and wouldn't be re-deposited for 1-4 business days.Every time a merchant demands a utility bill, he creates thisdouble-risk: first, that he may be accepting a trivially and undetectably forged document, and second that he or his employees may use your document to impersonate you with another merchant.This is the kind of love affair that can only end in tears.
Forget the venerable keyboard, aging mouse or even your new-fangled multi-touch screen: researchers in the US have come up with a new way of controlling your computerby using your tongue. Aimed at users with disabilities, the choice of control mechanism for theTongue Drivewas no accident. Assistant prof Maysam Ghovanloo said that "unlike hands and feet, which are controlled by the brain through the spinal cord, the tongue is directly connected to the brain by a cranial nerve that generally escapes damage in severe spinal cord injuries or neuromuscular diseases." But what if you want to eat while you're surfing?
Forget your mum, dad, gran and kids,Stephen Fry loves Nintendo too. Thewriter, actorand apparent gadget lover is a big fan of all things DS and Wii."My DS Lite is pink. There was so much demand earlier this year that they couldn't be had for bribes, sexual favours or worse. Unless you accepted girly pink. The moment you open it, you are taken back to the old Game &amp; Watch days but can see why the DS has succeeded so well with the middle class, the middle-aged and the Hello Kitty/My Little Strawberry Shortcake Pony set. You set up in a twinkle and then play on two screens, one of which accepts stylus input and touches."Fry touches on the relationship between the DS and the more powerful PSP - "The DS is nothing like as feature rich as the PlayStation Portable, but it isn't trying to be" - and suggests that users prefer a simpler machine."You can feel admiration and even awe for the big power boxes, but for the DS you feel affection - and that, in marketing terms, is worth a whole heap more."I can see where he is getting at - I used to feel the same - but the PSP has gradually crept into my affections. Partly through the PS3 link up stuff, and partly because I love the look of the newPSP 3000. Playstation Europe boss David Reeves showed me one in Leipzig last week and the improvement in screen quality over the current PSP - especially in richness of colour - was hugely impressive. Anyway, is Fry right then? Do you feel affection for your DS?
Business Week's Tech Beat blog confirms theKindle 2is coming. It says:Amazon.com plans to unveil a larger-screen model of its Kindle e-book player, aimed at students, in the coming months. And I'm also hearing some details about an upgrade of the base model, that I'm told is coming in September (though Wright Ragen thinks it may be in October). My sources say the new version is significantly thinner, has a better screen, is more stylish and includes fixes to some of the user interface annoyances with the first version. One person that has seen the device says it is as big a leap from its predecessor as the iPod mini was from the first iPod. "They've jumped from Generation One to Generation Four or Five. It just looks better, and feels better," says the source.We can at least hope that Kindle 2.0 will also have been designed with international sales in mind, and that it will eventually appear at Amazon.co.uk....
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Fed up with spam? You're not the only one. But Cambridge University security researcher Richard Clayton thinks the problem might not just be your spam filters, but your name. In an academic paper - recounted atLight Blue Touchpaperblogs - he says that Aardvarks - people with names high in the alphabet - receive 35% spam, and zebras - those at the tail end of the dictionary - get 20%. Why? So-calledRumplestiltskin attacks. Time to get the deed poll out, kids.
Unlike the film industry, where the superstar system ensures that personalities abound, there aren't many legends in computer games development. One person who does stand out, however, isformer id designerAmerican McGee, whose unusual name and raft of quirky, Tim Burton-esque titles ensure that people keep watch on what he's doing.Currently living in Shanghai and trickling outGrimm, his latest anarchic opus based loosely on the fairy tales of the Brothers of the same name, the gamesblog tracked him down to find out where the other auteurs are, what it takes to be a free spirit in an industry obsessed with the bottom line, and what he's learned living in China.ExplainGrimmto my mum.Grimm is a video game presented like a television show. The "host" is a crabby dwarf named Grimm who's had enough of fairy tales made too sweet by modern day political correctness. He longs for a time when fairy tales meant something, when they had teeth, contained lessons, and could frighten good behavior out of bad children. Each week he re-introduces a well-known tale in its current-day, toothless form. He then invites the player to help him return it to a grimmer state.The game play of Grimm is designed to be highly accessible - you "paint" darkness on the world by running around. Everything in the world can transform, the rocks and trees to the birds and bees convert from wholesome to horrific. When the work's done Grimm once again presents the tale. But this time things are more to his liking: Justice is served, naivety and bad deeds are punished, and all's well that ends up dead.In total there are 24 episodes of Grimm, delivered in a unique weekly fashion. You can get the episodes for FREE during the first 24 hours after their weekly launch, just like television. After that you can still play the game using a variety of pay methods, either via GameTap's site or other digital distribution partners.Your games have a distinctive style and a dark humour that's unusual in games. Where do you get your inspiration?My childhood was bizarre and often scary. I was fed an odd mix of media, real life drama, and travel. I suppose the heavy rotation of Jacques Cousteau and Monte Python took its toll. These days I take inspiration mostly from the artist and creators that surround me at work. We've assembled an eclectic bunch here in Shanghai. People from around the world, with a variety of odd background, all intent on expressing themselves through games. Nothing better than collaborating with a group of interesting and odd people to get truly inspired.Which distribution model encourages the most creativity? Why?A finance and distribution model that allows an audience time to find a product is best. The current retail box-product model suffers not because of the distribution - but because of the limited availability of shelf space at the retail outlets. Scarcity of shelf space means a game must perform exceptionally well - beating out all other competitors for shelf space - the moment it hits the shelves or be considered a failure. This creates a self-fulfilling prophecy, relegating good games to obscurity, and limiting customer choice.A publisher who funds and distributes with digital distribution in mind, creates an environment where creativity can be encouraged. Designers aren't forced to fit into pre-defined genre slots or to focus on "me-too" designs that kowtow to market expectations. Bigger risks can be taken on smaller projects. And successful small projects can be expanded on when appropriate.In general the industry needs more forms of incubators.Where do you see the most creativity in gaming coming from? Are there any people/studios you keep an eye on?It seems that a lot of the most successful creativity is being expressed in smaller format games and (as is the case with the Wii) on innovative platforms. Studios that embrace alternates, be it in distribution, development methods, interface devices, or explore other untested concepts in gaming, tend to produce the most interesting content. I'm particularly interested in things coming out of Nintendo, Media Molecule, Telltale, GameTap, Valve, and EA Partners. Each of these groups is helping to reshape various aspects of game development, distribution, interface, and financing.You've developed a reputation as a creative and Tim Burton-esque developer: an independent spirit with big budget funding. Why is this so unusual in the industry?Independent spirit maybe, big budget funding barely. But the budgets (as long as they aren't painfully limiting) aren't the point. I think my reputation (good and bad) has come from the fact I've been consistently unusual in my approach to development (location, methodology), storytelling (themes, characters), and the presence of my name in association with the game titles. People know to expect the unexpected. Compared with other (perhaps wiser?) developers and studios who strive for consistent, if somewhat repetitive, development and market performance, I'm more interested in testing new ideas.Looking back at your career, where do you think you learned the most, in terms of the skills you have today?A lot of the foundation came from id - the understanding of the dedication and creativity needed to produce good games. The business understanding came in part from the time I spent with EA, and also in large part from the time I've spent as an independent developer. But the hardest and best lessons certainly came with the development of my last game, Bad Day LA. Everything that could go wrong did go wrong, and I walked away with a mountain of lessons. Until the point that development skidded off the track and crashed I held in my mind that any problem, no matter how big, could be solved - any broken project fixed. Perhaps true when there's unlimited time and resources - but the reality of the world outside places like id and EA is that things can just break beyond fixing. The realization of that fact has increased my respect for good planning and management as well as my admiration for solid game development teams in general.I'm still learning a huge amount every day - thanks to being in Shanghai, starting a new studio, and working on some innovative projects like Grimm. Being here is a challenge on every level - culturally, linguistically, and physically. Nothing can be taken for granted, everything must be proven and re-proven - from handling of company finances and planning, to development processes, team building, and interface with the local community. Thankfully, all these challenges are interesting and very rewarding.You currently live in Shanghai. How have you been influenced by that culture in your game designs and development styles?It's had a tremendous impact on my development style. Living in China has made me more respectful of the limited nature of things: time, resources, and energy. It has impressed upon me the importance of process, clear communication, and strong team culture. And it has really opened my eyes to the chemistry of people - human nature, personality types, and shared expectations. All of this has driven me to take a very personal and humanistic approach to how the studio has grown and our projects are planned.As the development environment in China is still new and has a lot of growing to do, I think one of the most important things our studio can do to influence the future is to illustrate a more human approach to development. With that in mind we plan and prioritize to avoid overtime and "crunch" work. We emphasize health and rest as keys to higher productivity and creativity. And we encourage openness and communication between people and departments as a way of working more effectively.Our games are of course impacted by exposure to the environment here. Now that we're starting work on a game specifically designed for the China market I see myself leveraging the past 4 years of language, culture, and understanding into the game concept, design, and creative direction. It's an odd thing to be a foreigner building games for the Chinese market - but so far, so good. We're having a lot of fun, learning a lot, and I hope bringing to life something rewarding for our team and our audience.What will be the next revolution in gaming?I think we'll continue to see updated interface devices at the forefront of the mini-revolutions in the years to come. Ultimately, I think this is all heading to one uber-revolution in the shape of seamless computer-human interfaces, ala "The Matrix". It'll be great to get away from the dated keyboard/mouse, monitor, speakers way of interfacing with our content. As soon as someone starts offering trial "implant" testing - I'll be first in line. I just hope I don't crash my brain, it would take a lifetime to reinstall everything.You can get the first episode of Grimm for free fromGameTap. The rest of the episodes are available on the website and the remaining episodes will be free for the first 24 hours of release: July 31 (A Boy Learns What Fear Is) August 7 (Little Red Riding Hood) August 14 (The Fisherman and His Wife) August 21 (Puss In Boots) August 28 (The Girl Without Hands) September 4 (Godfather Death) September 11 (The Devil and His Three Golden Hairs) September 18 (Beauty and the Beast)
As the French president Nicolas Sarkozy thrashed out a ceasefire between the Kremlin and Georgia this month, a Georgian Airways plane touched down in Tbilisi carrying a team of his fellow countrymen who have been among the first on the ground in disaster areas and war zones for the past decade.The charity they work for has provided a vital service for bodies from the UN and World Health Organisation to Oxfam and Save the Children and has directly helped hundreds of thousands of people caught up in earthquakes, mud slides, famines and wars.The French team were taking telecoms equipment into the Georgian capital. T&eacute;l&eacute;coms Sans Fronti&egrave;res (TSF) has provided a vital link for aid agencies and a lifeline to friends and relatives from Iraq and Niger to Sri Lanka and Nicaragua.TSF - which has no connection with the medical charity M&eacute;decins Sans Fronti&egrave;res - is the brainchild of former caterer Jean-Fran&ccedil;ois Cazenave, whose only previous connection with the world of communications had been a brief stint with the French postal service that eventually split to form France T&eacute;l&eacute;com.Cazenave, transfixed by television news footage about the plight of the Kurds, got talking with a friend who worked for a British frozen foods company about how they could help.Ten days later, with $10,000 and 40 volunteers, they were ready to ship out clothes and other supplies in two lorries, one bound for Iran and the other heading for the Turkish border. In unmistakably French style, that first consignment also included 100,000 pieces of cheese. The trip to Kurdistan was followed by mercy missions to the Balkans the following year. But what surprised Cazenave on every trip was the reaction of the people he had come to help when it came time for the trucks to roll out again."When we left the camp they all gave us pieces of paper with a telephone number on them saying 'when you get back to France phone my friend, phone my father, phone my brother, say we are here, that their uncle is dead and that we are here and they have to help us'. That is how it began. During the war in Bosnia it was the same. In the 45 times I went there, every time we have come back from Mostar or Sarajevo and so on we had a list of people to call when we got home."He started to look into whether there were ways of setting up communications facilities into the refugee camps that had sprung up all over the Balkans and realised there was nothing."Every time we saw the same thing - there is a need for victims to be able to communicate. And all the non-governmental organisations (NGOs) also need telecommunications."So he went back to his local council with a proposal and the mayor bought Cazenave his first satellite phone.Now 53, the doughty Cazenave would not look out of place running a vineyard. The early days of TSF, officially started in 1998, confirms his job is a lot harder than it first appears. On one of his first outings he was threatened by an angry Albanian who put a gun to his head and the following year was taken hostage by Bosnian Serbs."Part of the problem is that I have a big mouth," he jokes in his heavily accented English. "Now I am more, not relaxed, but careful about what I say."His first trip, to Albania in 1998, proved him right. He had gone out there with one satellite phone to help refugees from Bosnia."We opened our little centre, in a village school, and a load of people came. What was fantastic was that a few days later I remember seeing people arriving in cars to take away their family and we thought 'this idea is good'."When he got back, he founded TSF along with some of his former colleagues, including Monique Lanne-Petit, who remains a director.On one mission the following year in Macedonia, TSF had 400 people turn up to make calls the first day. Two days later there were 25,000 and a queue a mile long and the media started to take notice of the Frenchman with a satellite phone. From there the team went to Kosovo. Cazenove had 6,000 francs (&pound;700) in his pocket and plans to stay for two weeks. He ended up staying for more than a year and by the end of it, TSF was operating under a UN mandate.TSF then became involved in disaster relief after the 1999 earthquake that struck Izmit in western Turkey. TSF volunteers took some of the kit from Kosovo to help out. "It was our first intervention for a natural disaster. We stayed there for 10 days."Since then TSF has been out on more than 70 missions to 50-odd countries. It has attracted the backing of the Vodafone Group Foundation, the United Nations Foundation, the European Commission Humanitarian Office (ECHO), satellite communications groups Inmarsat, Eutelsat and Vizada, telecoms companies AT&amp;T and Cable &amp; Wireless and the Regional Council of Aquitaine. It now has 20 full-time staff and twice that number of volunteers.Only two countries have defeated TSF. It reluctantly pulled out of Iraq, because the queues of people waiting to use the phone could attract suicide bombers, and Burma, where the regime refused it access to the Irrawaddy delta after the cyclone hit the region this year.TSF has expanded its operations in recent years, not just setting up communications hubs for NGOs, but also using the latest generation of satellite phones - which provide internet and send pictures - to put people in remote areas in touch with distant medical facilities.In the west African state of Niger, ravaged by famine, TSF has put in place communication services in 37 locations to help the government's national food crisis prevention system. In South America it trains people in impoverished areas to use the latest IT systems.At its core TSF does exactly what it started out doing 10 years ago and is doing it right now in Georgia: providing vital communications to people who have lost absolutely everything.During that 10 years, TSF has suffered only two accidents - give or take the odd kidnapping. One volunteer was injured in Iraq and more recently one of the team in Niger contracted malaria.Cazenave says: "The most dangerous thing we do is use the local equipment, like cars and helicopters. We go to poor countries and the cars are old and we drive very fast because we have to arrive very quickly. The helicopters we have to use are sometimes helicopters that should not be made to fly but in an emergency you have no choice."tsfi.org
It's Bank Holiday Monday, and apart from traffic jams that also means people not in offices. So the low moaning and leap in productivity will have to wait until tomorrow when people get in, turn on their computers and... where's Scrabulous?It's gone, sorry. It came back but now it's gone, and that includes the UK, and as Rory Cellan-Jones (who I think has been known to partake a bit)notes on the BBC Technology blog, it wasEEDDDLU(possibly an anagram) if people thought that Mattel/Hasbro would just let two fellas in India rake in huge amounts of cash using their trademarked/copyrighted goods.Yes, people have also criticised Hasbro/Mattel (or as Rory puts it, subjected them to muchLQOYUOB(fabulous word, as he says; I had to check I'd got the right decoding). And the "official" program is pants.But I still think that the simplest route is going to be one where Hasbro/Mattelacquire Scrabulous at a fabulously knock-down price, in return for not suing them for all they've got. That would at least mean that people get a useful application.(There's alsoVic Keegan's take on thisfrom January, where he remarks thatIf there is any justice in this matter, then the copyright holders should be awarded negative damages. They should pay money to the brothers who have revived their fortunes.In the meantime, here's an interesting question: why is it that two brothers in India can write an online version of Scrabble that is a million times better than one written by organisations with a million times more funding?
Researchers at the University of Washington and Yale University have proposed "a neighborly approach to file swapping, sharing preferentially with nearby computers. This would allow peer-to-peer traffic to continue growing without clogging up the Internet's major arteries, and could provide a basis for the future of peer-to-peer systems. Apaperon the new system, known as P4P, will be presented this week at the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on Data Communications meeting in Seattle," saysUniversity of Washington News.The researchers found that "the average peer-to-peer data packet currently travels 1,000 miles and takes 5.5 metro-hops, which are connections through major hubs. With the new system, data traveled 160 miles on average and, more importantly, made just 0.89 metro-hops, dramatically reducing Web traffic on arteries between cities where bottlenecks are most likely to occur."Local traffic is cheaper for ISPs, and should enable faster downloads. The main drawback is that ISPs have to provide "a number that acts as a weighting factor for network routing".TorrentFreak comments:In theory this is a great idea. However, P4P requires collaboration between the developers of filesharing clients and ISPs, which might be a problem. Indeed, most P2P companies TorrentFreak talked to are not that excited about the initiative, but they wont say that out loud, and play along for the time being.There might even be a darker side to the project, as the P4P working group includes some prominent members of the entertainment industry and well known anti-piracy lobbyists. Besides that, we argue that it is likely that the technology might slow down transfers of people who are on ISPs that don't end up supporting the technology, raising serious Net Neutrality issues.But P2P is now being used by broadcasters who want copyright protection, such as the BBC, not just pirates, and anything that makes such sharing more efficient than the currentnet-abusive BitTorrent protocolshould help everyone. It could also help legitimate file-sharing replace copyright infringing file-sharing.
