(Blogging from MacExpo in San Francisco) At around 5pm today UK time (9am tomorrow here :-)) Apple CEO Steve Jobs will stand up to deliver his eagerly-anticipated keynote address to the MacExpo here at the Moscone convention center. You'll be able to watch aQuickTime videolive: otherwise, watch out for a brief update here later tonight, and (hopefully) fuller details of any announcements in Online and on Guardian Unlimited. But what is he going to announce? Consensus agrees that new flat-panel iMacs will be announced, although the exisiting cathode ray tube (CRT) models will probably be kept and upgraded for entry-level machines. But, after the hype Apple has been giving this keynote, Apple-watchers agree he'll have to pull a few other rabbits out of the hat to keep the hoards happy. Expensive new iMacs, even if they look very cute indeed, won't make the grade after a week ofbuilding hypefrom Apple itself, in the midst of what is supposed to a computer industry slowdown...
USA Today has published a good piece one-mail overloadand how CEOs are trying to deal with it.
Microsoft will unveil a new handheld gadget codenamed Mira at the giant Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas next week, according to aZDNet Newsreport. Think of it as somewhere between a TV remote controller, a PocketPC handheld, and the TabletPC due late this year....
Some people are benefiting from the dot.com collapse: they are buying up Web properties for a fraction of what they cost during the bubble. The Excite@Home debacle is providing what could be good pickings. For example, the founders of theWebshotsphoto site sold out for $82.5 million and are buying it back for $2.4 million. Blue Mountain Arts? Bought for $780 million; sold for $35 million. TheAssociated Pressstory has more details.
So what does 2002 hold for internet users? Answer: lots of trouble with email.Like many people on the receiving end of a lot of the stuff, I now have a pre-prepared reply template that reads like this:'Dear x, I've just had a suspicious email message from you, which suggests that your computer has been infected with the y virus. Sorry to be the one to break the bad news, but it's better that you know.'The reason for the template is the frequency with which I'm getting infected messages. Many of them come not from strangers but from people I know who work in the media and are mostly neophytes as far as computing is concerned. They are folks who decided some years ago that they simply had to have email, bought a laptop with Microsoft Windows and Outlook Express, and joined the brave new world of online communications.In the past six months, the number of correspondents who have caught one of the Microsoft email viruses has risen significantly. This is no more than a minor irritation for me, because I don't use   Microsoft email software and in any event I try to keep my anti-virus precautions up to date. But for the infected correspondents it is often a minor catastrophe which can put them offline for weeks.'Yes', wrote one (a prominent TV presenter) the other day in reply to my email warning her of infection, 'everyone tells me I have a virus and am infecting them. But I don't know what to do... I am computer illiterate, so the website you sent me simply seemed like gibberish to me. Is there a child's version telling me what to do, one thing at a time? Thanks for any help.'Because most of the email viruses exploit the vulnerability and integrated architecture of Microsoft software (which means that, once they gain entry via email, they can wreak havoc with the rest of the victim's system), the security problems posed by such viruses are likely to increase.The only defensive measures are better-educated computer users, daily updates to anti-virus software and the adoption of email programs that do not emanate from Microsoft.Less destructive than viruses, but more repellent to the average internet user, is spam - unsolicited email from total strangers, many of whom go to elaborate lengths to conceal their identities.Those of us whose email addresses are posted in a public place (for example, at the foot of a newspaper column) are accustomed to getting bucketloads of spam. This column's quota yesterday included invitations to buy a herbal substitute for Viagra, earn thousands of dollars working from home (editor please note) and watch 'live video' of 'Asian babes' performing various unnatural acts. Some of these are usually caught by an email filter program (which looks for tell-tale signs such as multiple exclamation marks and repetitions of the dollar sign), but   some invariably get through into the main mailbox, from which they have to be manually deleted.There is evidence that spam is spreading at an alarming rate. Brightmail, a company that specialises in blocking it, claims that unsolicited email accounted for 12.8 per cent of the mail its corporate clients received since September, nearly double the share of the previous quarter.A spokesman for America Online said unwanted email was now the number one complaint of its subscribers. Jupiter Media Metrix, an internet market research company, says the average American received 571 spam messages in 2001 and predicts that, by 2006, that person will receive 1,479.This rising tide is driven by economics and software. On    the economic front, the cost of sending out 10,000 email messages is not significantly greater (to the  sender) than the costs of sending 10. There is a widespread belief that targeted e-mailshots are more effective (as well as much cheaper) than their paper-based equivalents. And the acquisition of email addresses has effectively been automated by software robots ('spambots'), which trawl the web looking for addresses.The rising tide of spam is an unqualified disaster because it pollutes what is, for the majority of internet users, the most valuable aspect of the network - the facility to send and receive messages cheaply and efficiently. Far more people use the net for communicating than use it for e-commerce or information. Their confidence in this priceless medium is undermined by spam. Indeed, some elderly users are so alarmed by their first experiences of unsolicited messages that they decline to use email thereafter. And parents are concerned about their children being the unwitting recipients of unsuitable propositions.Sending spam may be cheap, but receiving it certainly isn't. Many people returning to work tomorrow will find themselves wading through inboxes that may have 30 pieces of spam interspersed with 70 legitimate messages. Identifying and   deleting the rubbish takes valuable time. Multiply that by 400 million users and you begin to get some idea of the effort wasted dealing with spam. The European Commission estimates that it costs European consumers &euro;10 billion (&#163;6bn) a year.Something will have to be done about spam if the net isn't to choke on its own junk mail. Companies such as Brightmail offer technical solutions, but ultimately it requires legal sanctions. Fortunately, legislators are beginning to recognise this.European telecommunications Ministers voted recently to ban unsolicited commercial email unless the recipient has given explicit approval to being on a mass-mailing list, and there have been several legislative efforts to ban spam in the US.But so far these efforts have been stymied - strangely - by the fact that it is apparently difficult to define spam, or at any rate to distinguish it from free expression, which is entitled (in the US at least) to constitutional protection. We are all agreed that unsolicited ads for pornography constitute spam. But what about a message from Amnesty highlighting torture in Afghanistan? Answers please - preferably on a stamped addressed &euro;50 note.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/ footnotes
Egg rushed to assuage fears over the safety of its website last week after customers trying to log on to their accounts were warned their communications would not be secure.Customers using Apple Macintosh computers could not access their accounts on Wednesday and Thursday. A message appeared on the Egg home page warning that its browsers were unable to make a secure connection. Those who contacted the bank's customer service department were told the   message was being flashed up in error and that they could continue using the site safely.Egg blamed the problem on a communication error with the site's certificate vendor, Verisign. A system update over Christmas meant Mac browsers would not recognise the digital certificate that guarantees a secure connection. A spokeswoman said the error message was limited to Apple Macintosh applications and was 'due to a temporary glitch in the way Macs interpret security certificates. At no time was any part of Egg's   website unsecure.'Graham Hayday, editor of silicon.com, an online news service focusing on ebusiness, says the problem indicates that Egg did not test its site rigorously enough after loading new software.'All they had to do was to try to log on using a Mac - it's not difficult to test the site fully. The site was secure, but it won't have helped customer confidence. With increasing concerns about online fraud and hacking, the industry should take responsibility to make sure things like this   really don't happen.'Egg offers a range of personal finance services to 1.8 million customers. Its site was judged the most reliable in December by website monitor Siteconfidence.It found Egg reliable for 99.4 per cent of the time, compared with 98.9 per cent for First Direct, 96.8 per cent for Barclays and 90.1 per cent for the Woolwich. But these figures are based on the performance of a site's home page; it does not monitor access to real accounts or transactions.
A virtual gold rush that marked the end of the 1990s now looks like coming to an end.Amid the heights of internet euphoria, speculators bought up domain names with abandon in the belief that they could sell them on at huge profits in the future.But, for only the second time in the internet's relatively short history, the number of dotcom domains on the internet fell.In the last three months of 2001 the number of registered   domain names dropped by 130,000 as speculators failed to renew their ownership of the names.Typically, speculators buy the right to 'own' a domain name for two years, with the option of renewing. However, as the internet bubble burst speculators' hopes of making a tidy profit selling on the names disappeared.The addition of new domain name suffixes, such as .info or .biz, has reduced the pressure on what was once a crowded market.The fall in dotcom domains   was only the second of its kind since mid-1995, according to the research firm Netcraft, which tracks the number of domain names that are registered each month.The failure of domain name owners to renew ownership produced an overall decline in the number of registered websites in December. At the end of last year Netcraft estimated there were more than 36 million websites, compared with just 20,000 when the firm started its tracking survey in 1995.
It is the news that technology investors have long been waiting for: semi-conductor sales are finally rising again.These chips are the building blocks behind all the technology we use - from the latest mobile handset to a web-hosting service - so demand for them is seen as a good leading indicator for the tech industry as a whole. If their sales are improving, the argument goes, then recovery in the rest of the technology market cannot be far off.Sure enough, the news provoked excitement among investors, led by big semi-conductor makers such as Infineon and ST Microelectronics in Europe, and Intel in the US. Our own Techmark index rose 4.3 per cent on one day, while Nasdaq gained 3.3 per cent.So far, so rational. However, technology investors have not only been expecting news like this for months, they have been gorging on stocks in anticipation of it. Nasdaq has jumped more than 40 per cent since it hit its 2001 low on 21 September, while the Techmark index has jumped more than 50 per cent. Yet, while the Semiconductor Industry Association did report that November sales rose 1.6 per cent on   October and is predicting a 4.7 per cent quarter-on-quarter rise, its statistics show that sales are still more than 40 per cent below the previous year. Even Infineon's chief executive, Ulrich Schumacher, warns that selling prices are still below what it costs to make the chips 'so it is too early to get excited'.So is the current tech rally justified or is it simply a reflation of the bubble that burst so painfully 20 months ago? Much depends on how far you are prepared to look ahead.Sean Murphy, hardware analyst at the Nomura Research Institute, says investors appear to be a lot more optimistic than technology bosses. 'Chief executives are saying the recovery is not here yet and investors are saying the recovery is coming soon,' he says. 'Are investors right in looking further ahead?'He believes the current rally is being driven partly by liquidity: investors have a lot of money that they are keen to put into technology stocks. Buyers are also taking comfort from the fact that, while share prices may have risen sharply over the last three months, many tech companies are still trading at less   than half their peak levels.But that does not necessarily mean they are cheap: earnings forecasts are falling as fast, if not faster, than share prices. 'Based on what we are forecasting for 2002, a lot of companies are still trading on multiples of 50 times earnings and above,' said Murphy. 'I feel we are at risk of repeating the mistakes of 2000.'Adrian Hopkinson, a technology analyst at WestLB Panmure, agrees that investors are looking ahead - he believes that, at current levels, technology shares are already discounting what is going to happen in 2003. 'That is easier for technology companies than predicting the next six months,' he says. 'But that is also why bubbles happen - it is a long way away and it is quite easy to make mistakes.But he still expects the rally to continue as small- and medium-sized companies, which have so far been left behind, join the party.The performance of technology shares has previously mirrored consumer confidence: that is on the rise again, so the outlook for tech stocks should be good. But that does not mean there will not be more bad news from the sector. Nomura's Murphy believes the only companies that will see their earnings forecasts for 2002 upgraded will be those that are prepared to cut their costs.'There may be a mild increase in revenues - perhaps 5 or 10 per cent,' he says. 'But the serious earnings growth will come from those companies who can cut 10 to 15 per cent from their costs, possibly after having done as much in 2001.'He points to companies like Dutch chip-equipment maker ASML and Philips Electronics, which have already indicated that they will be making further cuts.Few investors will forget the losses they suffered in the technology crash during the spring of 2000. The trouble is, they also remember the huge profits that were made, albeit briefly, in the year preceding that. No one wants to miss out on the boom this time around. That is encouraging investors to ignore high valuations in their search for the winning companies. This time around, the rally may be sustainable - or, like the two previous attempts at recovery, it could fizzle out when the bad news returns.
The boy wizard is the toast of cyberspace. Sales of Harry Potter merchandise have given a much-needed Christmas fillip to struggling online retailers after an ugly 2001 when e-commerce growth rates showed acute signs of slowing down.And for online giant Amazon, the success of JK Rowling's magical character could border on alchemy. Worldwide, Amazon sold a staggering 450,000 Harry Potter books and related products during the Christmas season, three times the number of its next most popular gift, the  Shrek video and DVD.Such facts might bring a smile to Rowling's publisher, but they will also produce a huge grin on the face of Amazon's affable boss and founder, Jeff Bezos.Early last year, with Wall Street baying for blood as Amazon's share price crashed through the floor, the world's biggest online retailer pledged that it would make an operating profit for the fourth quarter of 2001, the first profit in its relatively short history.The company repeated its target aim last October when Bezos boasted: 'We've lowered our operating costs 20 per cent and can now afford to drive growth by lowering prices for customers. If you're buying books over $20 from anywhere but Amazon.com, you're probably wasting money.'Now Amazon's reputation is on the line. In addition to seeing its value plummet, Amazon is also under investigation by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which is looking into several deals involving the company and its strategic partners.The SEC is also looking into Bezos's decision to sell some of his shares shortly before the publication of a negative broker's note. Several disgruntled investors' groups have launched actions   against the firm, claiming Amazon issued them with misleading statements about its prospects.But all this will be washed away if on 22 January, Amazon is able to tell a waiting world that it has succeeded in its aim of making an operating profit. If it has failed, any excuses will be drowned in a sea of analysts' sell notes, and with them the hopes of any remaining online retailer.After all, despite its fall from grace, Amazon remains a huge success story. With a market capitalisation of nearly $4 billion, Amazon is worth more than high street rivals Barnes &amp; Noble and Borders Group combined.Amazon's fortunes might not have been on such a knife edge had it not been for the events of 11 September. But, according to its most recent quarterly filing with the SEC: 'Immediately following the events of 11 September, customer purchases significantly declined, but have recovered.'We estimate that the net sales impact as a result of the events of 11 September   was between $25 million and $35m.'Hence Wall Street's thirst for news of how Amazon performed over Christmas, when it proved a huge hit with last-minute buyers. 'Amazon is not cheap; it's expensive compared with other booksellers. But it's the convenience factor. In the US you could order up to 20 December and still get your packages,' said David Pannell, analyst with hi-tech investment bank Durlacher.Most analysts believe Amazon will hit its profits target, a consensus which has helped propel the firm's shares upwards from a low of just under $7 last October to more than $12 now.Amazon is predicting that its net sales for the fourth quarter of 2001 will be somewhere between $970m and $1.07bn. It is remaining quiet on profit forecasts, but the shares' recent rally in anticipation of good news will go some way to improving employee morale, not to mention smoothing egos over at media giant America Online which last year bought $100m of Amazon stock as a strategic stake.In September Amazon issued a further 26 million stock options, with an average exercise price of $7.93 in a bid to incentivise staff. The company concedes that given the volatility of its share price, it could be forced to increase its cash compensation to employees or grant more stock options in the future.This is still a real possibility, regardless of whether Amazon manages to turn an operating profit for the final quarter.'We are not convinced that the company's ability to achieve its fourth-quarter guidance sufficiently answers our longer-term questions surrounding Amazon's evolving business model and the company's profitability potential, or justifies its current valuation,' stated Lauren Cooks Levitan, an analyst with Robertson Stephens in a recent note. Cooks Levitan is particularly concerned that revenues in Amazon's books, music and video division - by far its largest - are stagnating while its electronics and international divisions continue to make losses.Increased competition from high street retailers, many of which have finely honed their internet operations over the past 12 months, is also now a   major threat. 'The remaining pure-play dotcom firms are competing against the big boys who know all about scale and physical distribution,' said Scott Smith, director of internet strategies at research firm the Yankee Group.In a bid to show that it can compete with the established retailers, Amazon has made much of its ability to drive down the cost of acquiring new customers from an average of $15 per person in the third quarter of 2000 to $11 by the end of September 2001.But analysts still want to see costs trimmed further. This is not surprising given that even if Amazon turns an operating profit, it has a long way to go before it enters the black. This is because   operating profits don't include a number of charges such as amortising its investments or its interest payments.And Amazon has huge interest payments. As of 30 September 2001, Amazon had debts of $2.2bn. The annual interest payments of more than $100m are a huge drain on the firm.In addition, Amazon has been restructuring, cutting staff and closing warehouses, all which forced it to absorb charges of nearly $200m last year. The company has also had to write off investments in a number of partner companies, notably an online auction site in partnership with Sotheby's and its stake in logistics firm Webvan.Even making an operating profit in   two consecutive quarters looks challenging. 'You would expect them to do well in the last quarter of the year: it's their busiest time,' Pannell said. 'But the question is whether they can sustain it. That's a more difficult question, especially in the US, where things are not looking so great. Amazon is now big enough to be affected by the economic climate.'This remains the great uncertainty. Said Smith: 'Everyone extended themselves in the run-up to Christmas, when retail therapy was the name of the game. But people are going to feel the pinch of job losses soon.'For Bezos, 22 January may offer a breathing space, but it is not a panacea.
Financial Objects, the west London supplier of banking software, has announced a &#163;850,000 bad debt provision relating to an undisclosed customer.The news sent the company's shares tumbling 6p to 77p, a 7.2 % fall.A spokesman for the company refused to name the company in question, but it is thought to be a second-tier European online banking   business that is not based in Britain.Financial Objects first signalled difficulties collecting payments from the customer at a shareholder meeting last May. At the time, the company told investors that one of its clients was "experiencing liquidity problems".Yesterday, in a statement to the stock exchange, Financial Objects said: "This client is an exception to our usual customer profile, being our only client without a banking licence, so the board is confident that this is an isolated event."Financial Objects has more than 10 customers using its latest software package, ActiveBank, and manages older banking software systems for about 150 customers around the world.According to yesterday's statement, management expects 2001 revenues to be slightly down on the &#163;18.4m recorded in the previous year. Operating profits are expected   to be in line with analysts' expectations, following the implementation of a cost control programme."The board is pleased with the group's overall performance during 2001, particularly under current market conditions, and believes that it is well positioned," the company said.It is expected to announce full-year results in March, which will include the one-off bad debt provision for the six months to January.
Microsoft bossBill Gatesnow has to give opening keynotes in Las Vegas twice a year. The obvious one is Comdex; the less well known event is the world's largestConsumer Electonics Show, which in the old days was held in Chicago. The next CES, which opens on Tuesday, has become an increasingly important event for Microsoft as it gets involved in more and more non-PC areas such as WebTV, the Xbox games console, PocketPC handheld computers, mobile phones, and Ultimate TV interactive cable systems. CNet has a pre-show round-uphere. Microsoft has an outline of its plans for 2002here.
EE Times is tippingdual-processorMacs for next week's MacWorld. With Intel just about to go to 2.2GHz, Mac processor speeds are looking archaic in a market that somewhat simplistically equates clock cycles with performance. Nothing new about dual-processor machines on the desktop, of course: Windows NT has supported multiple processors from birth, and multiprocessor NT/Windows 2000/XP servers have been common for years. Be, an Apple breakaway, also started with dual-processor BeBox desktops in 1995-96, when the idea still had some novelty value. But Apple's first run at a dual-processor G4 last summer did not meet with an enthusiastic response, asCNetreported. And until Apple's Unix-based OS X is ready for prime time, it's hard to see any point in dual-processor iMacs.
The collapse of the dot.com sector has severely hit charitable giving, it emerged yesterday, with the world's wealthiest man, Bill Gates, among those sharply cutting back.Charities may have lost out on billions as the fortunes of some of the richest men and women in the world have shrunk.Mr Gates, co-founder of Microsoft, last year gave $2bn (&#163;1.4bn) to his charitable foundation, down from $5bn in 2000, but he remained the most generous giver in the US. The Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation is dedicated to world health issues.According to a report in The Chronicle of Philanthropy in Washington, the largest 10 individual donations to charities fell by more than 50% to a total of $4.6bn last year, from $11.1bn in 2000.Another to cut back was Gordon Moore, chairman emeritus of Intel. His highest donation through his charitable foundation last year was $300m to the California Institute of Technology, down from $5bn in 2000.Stacy Palmer, editor of the Chronicle, said the explosion of hi-tech had created a new type of philanthropist. "Very wealthy people used to wait until they died and then they would give away fortunes to foundations, but the hi-tech people want to do something now while they are alive."International Data Group's chairman, Patrick McGovern Jr, the former Netscape president James Barksdale, and CyBerCorp.com's founders, Philip and Donna Berber, were among those featured on the list in 2000 but not last year.The chart tracks only single gifts, not the total an individual has donated to various charities.The fall in donations is further bad news for charities, already fearful that the events of September 11 might attract donations away from other non-profit groups.
Walt Disney, the entertainment group, yesterday said the aggressive scaling back of its internet operations over the past year would allow them to reach profitability during 2002.In a letter to shareholders, chairman and chief executive Michael Eisner also detailed plans for further cost cutting - this time among its retail operation. The group intends to shut a further 50 Disney stores in addition to the 50 already closed.Disney, which includes theme parks, the film-making business and US television networks ABC and ESPN, cut more than 4,000 jobs last year - about 3% of its workforce. It is wrestling with lower advertising revenues and the weaker economy has hit attendance at the group's theme parks.The group closed its internet portalGo.com12 months ago and pared back operations at the Disney Internet Group, integrating websites into existing business divisions. Go.com had been the centrepiece of Disney's internet strategy but was closed because the advertising community had "abandoned" the web, Mr Eisner said at the time.Further cuts outlined yesterday included a reduction in   the annual investment in live action movies by $600m (&#163;420m) and a streamlining of Disney's purchasing policy, which has saved $200m."A great number of steps have been taken to safeguard Disney during these anomalous days," Mr Eisner said.He identified a number of "challenges" facing the organisation, including the failure of the expanded Disneyland in California if it is to meet targets. "We are now officially in a recession and people have less disposable income to travel," he said.The ABC network, he added, had suffered "the one-two punch of a down economy and a drop in ratings". He said the efforts to develop programming that will win back viewers is a top priority. "Primetime does present a problem and we are determined to solve it."The letter suggests that markets outside the US will be the chief focus for growth, including the launch of a set of mobile phone services in the UK later this year.A second theme park has opened in Tokyo and work is progressing on Hong Kong Disneyland - what Mr Eisner described as a "beachhead for the Disney brand in the most populous nation on Earth". A second theme park in Paris is also planned.
Blog housekeeping: On my to-do list, and finally prompted by the redoubtableBen Hammersley, some improvements to the way Onlineblog is archived. First, the arrival of thePermalink: in the event someone writes something you want to bookmark, or link to, clicking on the permalink added to the foot of each entry will give you its permanent location (rather than saying "go to Onlineblog.com and look up the entry of x date", you'll be able to provide a direct link). Second, thearchive pagehas been sorted out, and made easier to read.
As you'll see from the company's home page,Appleis really cranking up the hype ahead of next week's MacExpo in San Francisco. Speculation, notesAs The Apple Turns(link may expire later today) is reaching fever pitch. I'll be there on Monday to find out what all the fuss is about - watch out for next Thursday's Online with all the details, plus updates here.
Jurors-to-be who feel daunted by the prospect of an impending court appearance can now quell their fears with a pre-trial visit via the internet.Those keen to prepare for their stint in the jury box can get a realistic idea of what to expect during their time in court by logging on to a website that guides them through the unfamiliar surroundings using pictures, sound and text.The 500,000 people who are called up for jury service each year are to receive a leaflet informing them about thewww.cjsonline.org,which was developed by the government's criminal justice integration unit, the court service, BT and communications firm Gallomanor.The service is aimed at jurors who are unlikely to have ever stepped inside a court before, court service chief executive Ian Magee said."The virtual tour will help to demystify the process, providing jurors with a realistic walk-through of what jury service will be like," he added.Home Office minister Keith Bradley said: "Jury service can be a daunting experience, but is a vital part of our legal process. Modernising the criminal justice system and making it more accessible is a priority."
Things have changed dramatically since Great-Grandad Fred opened the garden gate at Pendleton House to the 1901 census enumerator, but the present occupant courteously suggests that the genius loci is the same."Perhaps there is a blessing on this place," says Shah Khan, the chairman of the Leeds Islamic Society whose trustees filled in the census form last year, a century after Frederick White, manufacturing chemist, and his family were carefully noted down.Churchgoers all - and about to marry into the strongly Methodist tribe of Wainwrights who lived 200 yards along Spencer Place in Chapeltown, Leeds - they would surely approve that their home has become a religious institution, says Dr Khan.Different sons and daughters of Abraham maybe; but the city's newest, beautifully decorated mosque looks good in the front garden, where great-grandad and the enumerator no doubt admired the first daffodils of late March.Elegantly listed, the Whites appear in relatively skeletal form on the 1901 census's standard page, compared with the detail of the family photo taken a year or two later on the steps of Pendleton House.The form reassures that none of them was deaf, dumb, blind, lunatic, imbecile or even feeble-minded, but its other revelations are humdrum: Fred's date and place of birth (May 27 1857, Leeds), his age, profession and position in the family (no two ways about that: he told the enumerator to write down "Head").But while scrolling along Spencer Place, the comfortable world of bourgeois "New Leeds", as Chapeltown was known in those days, does begin to emerge from 100 years' mist.Here are the Blackburns, whose aircraft factory in Roundhay Road is now a Tesco; and here is Henry Scurrah Wainwright, whose marriage to Sissie White was soon to be toasted inmarquees on the lawn where mosque-goers' children now tumble about.Massive overuse curbed further census-surfing yesterday, but not before one advantage of online genealogy had become clear.Last time I went on the trail of great-grandad, the area was a notorious kerbcrawling zone. My fieldwork had been jinxed by fears that the excuse "But officer, I'm just trying to find out where granny got married" would not wash.
Edwardian Britain stepped into the cyber age yesterday when the results of the 1901 census became the first to be published online.Underlining the growing craze for tracing friends and family histories on the internet, the census, which includes the names of the infant Queen Mother and the Lord of the Rings author JRR Tolkien, proved a massive hit within minutes of going live at 9am.Demand for access to the census was so great that the site could not be accessed for most of the day, even though the public record office had doubled its internet capacity to try to cope with the rush.The PRO apologised for the "teething troubles" and promised steps were being taken to increase capacity further.The online publication of the census, after the standard 100-year moratorium, represents the first attempt to provide internet access to complete census results.Conducted shortly after Edward VII took the throne, the census gives access for the first time to details of more than 32m people. The results were painstakingly digitised from more than 1.5m pages listing residents of Edwardian England and Wales.Among those named is the infant Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon of Walden, Hertfordshire, who went on to become the Queen Mother. An error in transcription at the time, or poor handwriting on the original return, led to a misspelling of her middle name so that Angela is listed as Angelia.Charlie Chaplin is listed as a "music hall artiste" and a resident of Surrey, while the legendary cricketer William - better known as WG - Grace is described as a "physician and secretary of the London Country Cricket Club".Claude Monet, the impressionist painter, appears as an "artist painter" living in the London parish of St Clement Danes. Tolkien, HG Wells, Beatrix Potter and Florence Nightingale are also listed, as are Edith Bland and Agatha Miller, who became famous as Enid Blyton and Agatha Christie.But some amateur historians may be in for a shock when they search the website for details of their ancestors. The Edwardians were obsessed with mental health and the census includes distinctly politically incorrect descriptions of some   people as "lunatic", "imbecile" or "feeble minded".The results also reveal how densely packed England and Wales have become over the past century. The census found that the population in 1901 was a little over 32.5m, and the density of the population was 558 per square mile. By 1999, the population was up to 52.7m, with 900 people crammed into every square mile.Genealogy sites are now the second biggest draw on the net, outdone only by pornography. The PRO now plans to publish the 1891 census online.Searches can be done by name, place or address, and users pay 75p to look at a digital image of the original census return. Another 50p buys the details of all other people listed at an address. The money will be used to fund the digitising of other censuses.Alison Webster, the project manager, said: "We received over 150,000 visitors at the public record office last year and we do not have the capacity to meet all the interest."We hope the online census will appeal to increasing numbers of younger people who come to us wanting to find out more about their grandparents or great-grandparents. People are also fascinated to find out who used to live in their house."www.census.pro.gov.uk
Every new technology goes through what the Gartner consultancy calls a "hype cycle". When it is new and relatively unknown, it gets boosted, and when it fails to live up to expectations, it gets trashed. So the interesting question is not "What do you think about Bluetooth?" or electronic payment schemes or whatever, it is "Where has Bluetooth got to on the hype cycle?" Or - which is more to the point for the people flogging the stuff - how far is Bluetooth from what Gartner calls the Plateau of Profitability, in a naming scheme that might have been inspired by John Bunyan's great allegory, Pilgrim's Progress?Gartner's Dr Alex Linden reckons Bluetooth is now close to the bottom of the Trough of Disillusionment. In other words, it has already scaled the Peak of Inflated Expectations, and has suffered the inevitable backlash. In another two to five years it will have climbed out of that and become a mature technology. We hope.By contrast, Linden thinks that mobile commerce and ASPs (application service providers), both of which were ludicrously overhyped a couple of years ago, are in for more stick. They have yet to reach the bottom of the curve.  While the hype cycle is a good general model of the way many new technologies enter the market it does not tell you how big the peaks and troughs are, or how long a technology will take to move from one phase to another. Hype about the internet, for example, reached a much bigger peak than the hype about   Knowledge Management. Meanwhile what we call artificial intelligence (AI) seems to have oscillated between hype and disillusionment for almost four decades without ever maturing into a profitable field.Desktop Unix is another idea that seems to have fallen into a black hole. For most of the 1980s, I fervently believed that Unix would become the standard operating system on everything from personal computers to supercomputers, and I was not alone: even home computer companies such as Acorn, Atari and Commodore offered versions. AT&amp;T, which developed Unix, code-named its version Destiny. It flopped horribly; we started to joke that: "Next year is the Year of Unix, and always will be."More than a dozen years later, it still doesn't seem to have taken more than about 0.25% of the market.  But Linden also argues that we live in an age of discontinuities, where it is impossible to predict the future by extrapolating the past. In particular, he predicts automation of customer services, and in the next three to five years, a significant growth in the use of wireless and wearable computers.What Linden characterises as "wearing IT out" does not depend on a single technology but on a cluster of developments. He lists ubiquitous wireless connections, heads-up or flexible displays, speech recognition, personal area networks (eg Bluetooth), miniature cameras, context aware services (that provide information according to where you are and what you are doing), and embedded sensors (computers built into everyday things). These could well be the hot technologies over the next one to five years. But watch out for the hype.PDA phonesSo far, the usefulness of mobile phones has been limited by their mediocre data-handling capabilities. If you have a couple of thousand contact names and addresses on your desktop computer, why shouldn't you be able to pipe them over to your mobile and dial them from there? Why shouldn't you be able to synchronise your appointments and to-do lists as well? The basic idea is to get the most important facilities of a palmtop computer into something that doesn't look like a brick. Happily, you can look forward to a string of such devices arriving in 2002, starting with the Handspring Treo -- which uses the Palm operating system -- then rivals based on Symbian's Psion-based Epoc and Microsoft's PocketPC.   The pundits will tell you   the possibilities are endless, which is a sure sign of something approaching The Peak   of Inflated Expectations on   the hype cycle. But still, I have to admit I really really want one, even if it does turn out to be underpowered and overpriced. Don't you?Voice responseI think 2002 will be the year that voice response takes off, and yes, I did say that last year as well. Voice response (VR) lets you talk to a computer over the phone, and it talks back. VR systems let you place bets, book flights, or have your email read out to you.     They work without keyboards, without internet connections, and without users having to do anything more complicated than pick up a phone and dial. The potential market is huge.And although VR sounds rather like speech recognition, it isn't the same. The computer has to recognise what you say, as a way of finding out what you want, but this is a lot easier than transcribing speech into correct prose. (A flight booking system doesn't have to know Paradise Lost.) In any case, even if VR does not work perfectly, it is already far better than the alternative: the hell of multiple nested menus where you have to press 2 and then 3 on a phone to get to the menu where you press 5.Web servicesForget about installing software on your computer, forget about backing it up, and forget about visiting lots of different web sites. Almost everything you want can be provided as a "web service". You will be able to customise your environment to combine, say, Microsoft Word word processing with Yahoo's email system, Guardian Unlimited headlines and your choice of weather reports, radio stations and so on, in a sort of personal portal. You will be able to subscribe to (and pay monthly for) whatever services you need, and they will appear as if by magic when you want to use them, then disappear when you don't.   Well, that's the idea. The standards for doing it have started to arrive: XML, UDDI, Soap etc. The tools that make it easy to create and deliver web services are either here, in Java-based systems, or   arriving this year in the form   of Microsoft .Net programs.   If you use Hotmail, you already use one web service - Microsoft's Passport authentication system. But even if the idea catches on, the web that is always available, and fast enough to deliver even a   simple web page "as if by magic", still looks a very long way away.Jack SchofieldM-commercePaying bills from your phone has become a digital version of Waiting for Godot: this year (like last year, like the year before) will be dominated by hopes that secure payments will take off in order to bring web and phone based trading to the masses. But how many people do you know who pay regularly for anything with their phones or similar devices? Most mobile payments in the UK arise from premium rated text messages or reverse billing like paying for football results to be sent to you or being charged for comparison shopping. This year will be no different.Wireless web2001 was definitely the time when reaching the web by wireless entered the trough of disillusionment. Will 2002 be any different?  Wap (wireless application protocol) was the word that dare not speak its name in public because of its embarrassingly and erratically slow access to the internet. Its successor GPRS (general packet radio service) offering "always on" access to the web was delayed by technical and legal problems and only a handful of consumer applications appeared last year.Do not expect wonders this year. GPRS will become much more popular but has yet to find the "killer" content that will make punters buy for it rather than use text messaging (which is still booming).We will see more early   versions of 3G phones by the Autumn, but even with those   it will be ages before they fulfil the hype  generated by the £22.5bn auction a couple of years ago.  The main thing to look forward to in 2002 is what was already happening in 2001: the phones themselves will continue to get better, lighter and crammed with new functions - like radio, multi-media messaging, chat facilities, MP3 (compressed music files) and diaries.   We may even see a whisper of the start of phones customised to your personal requirements.Bluetooth2001 was supposed to be the year of Bluetooth  - offering short-range wireless connections between phones, PCs, printers and other devices - but only a trickle of applications came on stream. These included an impressive   Ericsson phone enabling you to talk from a lightweight headset leaving the phone in your pocket and an (expensive) Bluetooth camcorder linking to the internet. But don't write Bluetooth off yet. It could make a big comeback this year or next.E-paymentForecasting that electronic payments are about to reach a mass audience has been a standard prediction for years - but it has not happened. Will 2002 be any different?It might, but don't bet on it. Novel schemes like PayPal - enabling customers to email payments to companies or to each other - are catching on fast in the US though more slowly in Europe. Most of the e-commerce done on the web by consumers is financed by credit cards. But there is a psychological reluctance by customers to give their credit card numbers on the web even though fraud is very low. It is much more secure than giving your card to a waiter who then disappears with it for a few minutes.Credit cards won't easily crack the problem of small payments because of the (high) charges involved and the administrative complexity. The most likely breakthrough will be in applying the principle of pre-payment (which has fuelled the massive rise in mobile phones) to paying for transactions on the web. If mobile phone service providers were bold enough to pay interest rates on the pre-paid balance of funds residing in your mobile account, then that could give micro-payments critical mass. It would turn telephone companies (or other utilities providing a similar deal) into banks but they are heading that way anyway.The absence of micro-payments remains the biggest gap on the web. If they had existed when the web had started it may not have evolved into the biggest free lunch the world has ever known. But getting people to pay for services they have been getting free for years will not be easy. But 2002 will see the most determined effort yet to make the web pay for producers.Victor KeeganWireless LANsWhile the wireless web   wallows in the trough of disillusionment, wireless networks - which deliver high-speed net access over short distances, sans cables - have been quietly gaining acceptance.Apple's stylish Airport base station and associated plug-in cards helped popularise the notion of wireless networks among consumers, but now Gartner counts more than 50 vendors of the necessary kit around the world. They include cable TV set-top box manufacturers, who are hoping to introduce broadband internet access in homes by installing wireless network antenna and cards as standard inside their boxes. It means they can deploy broadband capability by stealth - and deliver without the expense of cabling or complicated   installation by engineers.And even if it doesn't appear in your home, watch out for wireless networks in a public space near you - especially if you're in the United States. They are seen as an ideal way to help business people to make productive use of otherwise dead time spent waiting in airport lounges, hotel lobbies and even some US outlets of Starbucks.There are even co-operative groups springing up to offer low-cost, even free, net access via 802.11, creating "data clouds" where locals and passers-by can pluck their internet fix from the airwaves. Truly, wireless is swiftly moving up the slope of enlightenment.BroadbandReaders still struggling to get broadband installed - let alone start doing anything useful with it - might argue that high-speed net access deserves to be stuck right in the pit of the trough of disillusionment.Yet broadband technology - especially ADSL (broadband over a phone line) has been around for a long time now, and is now settled and largely reliable. Looking only at the technology, broadband deserves to be high up the slope of enlightenment.  But the problems, as we know only too well, lie in the delivery. BT, which should be leading the charge towards broadband Britain, procrastinated before launching its over-priced ADSL products, and made life impossible for would-be competitors. Cable operators have had to overcome technical problems with their fragmented networks, massive debt and low levels of customer service.But elsewhere - the US, Singapore, parts of Europe - broadband is much further down the path to mass adoption. Even in the UK, broadband access for business is becoming more commonplace, and satellite-based services could begin to offer an alternative to those businesses frozen out of broadband thus far because of their location away from telephone exchanges or cable networks.With the benefits of broadband becoming particularly apparent when combined with the likes of wireless networks, it is possible to see broadband finally emerging from the disappointments of the last two years, into a new era of usefulness.   Its move up the slope of enlightenment could be painfully slow, however, with continuing consolidation in the telecoms world and a leaden-footed Oftel combining to frustrate consumers and business alike.Neil McIntosh
1What is nagware?2Where would an orange badge work?3What is ROT13?4Where would you find a coffee cup holder?5What is book ramping?6Would you go blind rasterbating?7What is a glove puppet?8What is fasgrolia?9What is a spamhaus?10What is an orphan page?11Which is illegal: cracking or hacking?12What do the terms 'Flyspeck 3' and 'Janet and John 120' refer to?13What is list linking?14What is NASCII?15Who are the Warez Doodz?16What is gonking?17What is a cobweb site?18What would you find in Zen mail?19Which came first: ARPANET or NSFNET?20What is another name for an emoticon?21What is an assicon?22What is SLIP?23Who are Ippys?24When a Web server is sucking mud what is it doing?25What is a Godzillagram?26What is triple DES?27What is the finger of death?28What is PERL?29What is steganography?30What is a thumbnail?31What was Veronica?32What is an anchor?33How many letters are there in a country code?34What is Kevorking?35What is a dead tree?36What is a marquee?37What is a tar pit used for?The answers1.Shareware which displays a screen before it is used asking the user to register and pay a fee if they intend continuing to use the software.2.At Microsoft. It is the term given to a temporary worker at that company. It is derived from the colour of the identification badge given to such employees.3.A weak encryption scheme used in newsgroups and other public forums to hide material such as pornographic remarks. It works by replacing every alphabetic letter by another letter 13 places further on in the alphabet.4.It is the CD tray in a computer. It is often used as a term of abuse for an inexperienced user of the Internet. It is derived from a famous newsgroup posting which complained about the size of the coffee cup holder on the poster's computer.5.It is the process whereby an author (or sometimes their publisher) writes a favourable review of their own book in a book site such as Amazon.6.Almost certainly, it is the term used to describe the process of perfecting a raster graphic well beyond the point where it would make any difference to the appearance of the graphic.7.It is a false identity adopted by a poster to a newsgroup in order to support a posting made using the poster's real identity.  Posters often use a number of glove puppets in order to give the impression of general agreement with a particular posting.8.It is a term used to describe the increasing use of abbreviations and acronyms on the Internet. It is short for 'the FASt GROwing Language of Initialisms and Acronyms'9.It is a company that sells email addresses to spammers: individuals who carry out bulk, commercial emailing.10.A Web page that is not linked to any other page.11.Cracking is illegal as it describes the carrying out of unauthorised or criminal acts using a computer. Hacking is a term used to describe the use of a high degree of programming skills in the development of a computer program.12.They describe the size of text. Text fonts are usually characterised by a name and a point size such as Courier 12. Flyspeck 3 is text that is too small to read and Janet and John 120 is text that is too large to read comfortably.13.An attack on an individual in which they are subscribed to a large number of newsgroups. This has the effect of overwhelming them with emails. The most famous person who has been list linked is Newt Gingrich, the ex-Speaker of the American House of Representatives.14.Pornographic art found on the Web which is solely expressed in terms of the standard ASCII character set found on every computer15.A group of crackers who remove copy protection schemes from commercial software and make such software freely available on the Web.16.Unacceptably exaggerating or embellishing the truth.17.A Web site that has not been updated for a very long time.18.Nothing, it is a term used to describe an email that contains no message body.19.Both these networks were precursors to the Internet. ARPANET, which was a network associated with American Department of Defense, came first.20.A smiley or a smiley face. It refers to the  use of characters such as round brackets and commas to indicate the mood or state of the sender which could not be communicated by words.21.It is similar to an emoticon but represents a backside.22.It is a protocol that enables users of the Internet to communicate with it using a simple serial line.23.Internet users who have their own IP address. (An IP address uniquely identifies a computer on the Internet).24.It is malfunctioning. The term is used in the oil exploration industry to describe a malfunctioning pump.25.A message or packet of data that could, theoretically, be sent to every computer on the network.26.An American cryptographic scheme used to send coded messages through the Internet.27.The removal of a user from a network or from the customer list of an Internet Service Provider for carrying out anti-social or criminal behaviour.28.A programming language used to develop Web server software.29.The concealment of a secret message within a graphic image.30.A miniature version of an image used on a webpage31.An early, now defunct, search engine.32.A part of a Web page which, when clicked, takes you to another Web page.33.Two, a country code is used to identify a country in an Internet address, the code for the United Kingdom is UK.34.It is the process of killing off a program in the middle of its execution. The term is derived from Dr. Jack Kervorkian, an American physician who was accused of assisting the death of terminally ill patients.35.A term of abuse used to describe the paper version of some electronic document.36.Text which scrolls across a window. A favourite device of sites which contain news.37.It is a computer in a network which is used to tempt intruders into, so that their behaviour can be observed and they can eventually be caught.If you get all the answers correct then either you already possess the Dictionary of the Internet or are a maven (An internet expert).* If you get more than 20 answers correct then you must be an alpha geek (someone professing a deep technical knowledge).* Between 10 or 20 then you are a vanilla geek (someone with good technical skills).* Less than 10 then perhaps you are a bullet clicker (a term of abuse for an inexperienced user of the internet, based on the behaviour of users who click the bullet points in a Web document in the hope they would be transferred to another page) .&#183;The quiz is based on the recently published Dictionary of the Internet, written by Darrel Ince and published by Oxford University Press
A Wall Street Journal reporter has bought a couple of second hand PCs -- a desktop and a Compaq notebook -- for $1,100. The interesting part is that the transaction took place in Kabul, and the systems had been looted from offices used by al Qaeda. The Journal says: "US officials confirm the authenticity of the files, most protected by passwords, and say they provide a trove of information about the inner workings of the secretive organization." The story isherebut the WSJ is only available to paying subscribers.
Happy New Year - here's thecoolest space science imagesof last year, from Space.com.
Kaspersky Labs has published an interestingreviewof virus activity in 2001, which was notable for file-less worms and for the Ramen network worm that attacked GNU/Linux systems. If you read Russian, the story appearedherethe day before.
Handheld computers and mobile phones with colour screens still have battery problems, and this Reuters story suggests Toshiba is looking tofuel cellsfor a possible solution. Actually, just designing systems to take standard plug in rechargeable battery packs would solve most problems. Perhaps there's a union for handheld battery designers that requires a different and incompatible pack for every device -- along with a different charger, a different cradle, and a different expansion connector for any plug-in keyboard or other accessory. Or perhaps buyers are just mugs to put up with this kind of inconvenient, wallet-emptying stupidity....
What should your New Year resolution be? Take the quizhere. Of course, if you are serious, there areWeb sitesthat can help you to keep them.
When he was 11 - before he became a goat farmer, and a midwife, the owner of the world's largest flute, and one of the most influential philosopher-scientists of the computer age - Jaron Lanier liked mucking about with electronics. In the rural backwaters of 1970s New Mexico, that was quite enough to mark him out as a dangerous oddball. "This was a seriously redneck place, a place that really hadn't been exposed to much," he says now. The Lanier family lived in the second poorest county in the United States. "There were diseases that just shouldn't still have existed in America. There were... deformities."He vividly remembers the day he rigged an old oscilloscope up to a photographic enlarger lens to project wild, constantly changing shapes onto the walls of a darkened room. "I made a sort of haunted house, and I said to the other kids, 'Come on, come see my haunted house!'" He might as well have summoned the devil, such was the abject terror the light-show produced in his peers. "I was mortified," he says. "I had put so much effort into it and they were just too scared to watch."More than three decades later, Lanier is still fashioning artificial worlds, but his stage is global now. You cannot buy a car, or fill it with petrol, or undergo certain kinds of surgery, or drill for oil, without benefiting in some respect from virtual reality, the phenomenon for which he is famed and, in certain circles, practically deified. He has a modest dinner-party definition of his work - "coming up with gadgets so that you can fake a person into thinking they're in an artificial place" - but few recent innovations have had such consequences."Virtual reality vividly demonstrates that our social contract with our own tools has brought us to a point where we have to decide fairly soon what it is we humans ought to become, because we are on the brink of having the power of creating any experience we desire," writes the historian of technology Howard Rheingold. "VR represents a kind of new contract between humans and computers, an arrangement that could grant us great power, and perhaps change us irrevocably in the process."In the 1992 movie Lawnmower   Man, based on the novel by Stephen King, a crazed scientist uses his slow-witted gardener as a guinea-pig for his virtual reality experiments, launching him into an alternative universe created by a computer and turning him into a hyperintelligent monster in the process. The film version of the megalomaniac inventor, tinkering with the very fabric of reality itself, is rumoured to be based on Lanier, who has a formidable academic reputation despite his lack of either a university job or a degree, and cult status in the computer world. It has even earned him - and he is particularly proud of this - a postage stamp commemorating his work, issued by the Micronesian island chain of Palau.He combines it all with a professional career as a pianist and player of obscure and bizarre musical instruments, more than 700 of which clutter his downtown New York apartment. "He is this extraordinary person - gifted, generous and ethical," says his friend, the theoretical physicist Lee Smolin. "People ask why we don't have more renaissance people these days. Jaron shows that it is still possible."And yet the portly, dreadlocked 41-year-old is far from happy with the state of the revolution he has spearheaded. As a computer scientist, he has spent his career pushing the transformative power of modern technology to its limits. But as a philosopher, he has been sounding a warning for the last two decades that seems, initially at least, spectacularly incongruous: the world, he says, is far too much in love with computers.He is infuriated when neuroscientists like Daniel Dennett and Steven Pinker characterise the human brain as nothing more than a complex computer. He wishes researchers did not spend millions of dollars in pursuit of "artificial intelligence" in the blithe certainty that there is nothing inimitably unique about human consciousness. And he has watched in disbelief as a succession of seemingly serious thinkers have declared there is no reason why a race of intelligent computers should not take over the world, possibly rather soon.Lanier has always clung, instead, to the belief that technology must enhance human life and opportunities for human contact, not supplant them. "If we allow our self-congratulatory adoration   of technology to distract us from our own contact with each other," he says, padding in stockinged feet around his apartment, "then somehow the original agenda has been lost."He practices what he preaches, and in rock-star fashion. At a debate last month at the Institute for Contemporary Arts in London, guest speakers were invited to stroke a supposedly intelligent robotic cat, designed at great expense by computer scientists at Sony. It was exactly the sort of saccharine expression of faith in the power of technology to rival the living world that Lanier cannot stand. "All I did was pick it up by its head, and it broke," he says.ICA staff watched aghast as hundreds of research hours and thousands of dollars clattered to the tabletop. The damage was unintentional, Lanier swears, but he cannot help adding: "I had thought I might destroy the thing dramatically at the end of the talk... I hate the idea of artificial life, and I think that petting an artificial cat demeans us all." Over the ruined feline's remains, he gave what he describes as "an angry and passionate talk about the value of real life and the urgency of not confusing ourselves about it". ICA staff spoke of taking action against him. So far, none has materialised.Lanier still isn't sure why his father and mother, Ellery and Lillian, chose to move from New York City to the Mesilla Valley, near the border with Mexico, shortly after the birth of their only child in May 1960. Maybe the surroundings, the arid sandscapes interspersed with sinister military research facilities - White Sands is a missile-testing range - appealed to Ellery, a writer for pulp science-fiction magazines with titles like Fantastic, Amazing and Astounding.The job didn't pay all that much, but the family   got by on the earnings of Lillian, a concert pianist who traded shares on Wall Street by telephone from her desert home. She died in a car crash when Jaron was nine."Honestly, you're not going to get me to talk about that," he says, although later he will attribute all his subsequent work to an attempt "to find the connection I lost". It was already an eccentric family; deprived of one of its breadwinners, it became markedly more so. "My father wasn't really the money person, and we ended up moving to a stretch of desert and living in tents. Eventually, we built a house, which he let me design." It was predictably unconventional, all spires and crystals, with a geodesic dome as its centrepiece.The father and son who lived in the dome were "part of the local colour," recalls Alvy Ray Smith, the renowned pioneer of computer graphics, who grew up nearby, along with Clyde Tombaugh, discoverer of Pluto, "whose backyard bristled with telescopes". Part of the Lanier home has since collapsed - "which is what happens when you let a kid design your house," says Lanier - but Ellery still lives in the structurally sound part. He works as a lecturer in psychology at New Mexico State University, having completed, in later life, a PhD on the links between body shape and personality.Undistracted by friends - "friendship wasn't an option, really; it was a very tough, macho, difficult culture" - Lanier ploughed his way through high school and talked his way into NMSU, based in the city of Las Cruces. He was 14. The university was little more than a small-town college, its students dominated by local cowboys, but the state's weapons industry meant its science departments were anomalously packed with world-class minds.There was a pioneering spirit among the computer scientists, too. The internet had already begun - there were around 30 computers - and during Lanier's second year the first personal computer, the Altair 8800, arrived on the market. Lanier was already gripped by the untapped communicative power of the pictures that computers could generate. "I was interested in the idea of why maths is hard," he says of his youthful research. "These strings of Greek symbols are sort of daunting, and I thought the whole idea of text on a page might be the wrong way of thinking about maths. What about visual representations in 3D?"And so he became an early specimen of the computer geek, one of the thousands of bright but shy, socially awkward teenagers who would find in the burgeoning computer revolution a means to express themselves. He joined the advance guard of what the social commentator Jon Katz calls "an inconspicuous movement, attracting millions of intelligent, technologically aware, community-oriented, self-described outsiders, mesmerised by finding themselves in a club that will not only take them in, but puts them in charge".For about two years, he learned to program computers, but only because his research required it. Programming bored him: more strings of symbols that seemed unnecessarily obfuscatory. He grew restless. "Then one day I met this guy with a goatee and a van and a beatnik-like ambience, and he said he went to an art school where he hung out with artists and poets. And I just knew I had to drop everything and go." And so, at around 16, he followed the goatee to Bard College, a bastion of privilege and pot-smoking on the bank of the Hudson River in upstate New York.Lanier dropped out of Bard   before the first year was up, disgusted with the elitism and the indolence. For a while, he eked out a living as a musician in New York, before returning to New Mexico. There, for about a year, he organised protests against the state's expanding nuclear power industry. "For us, it was a psychic stand-in for nuclear weapons," Lanier says. The TV stations had to provide balanced political viewpoints, so when the state announced a tax levy to subsidise the sector, he and some friends managed to force screenings of anti-nuclear advertisements along with the pro-nuclear ones. "We made our own ads, by consensus. It was an internet-like thing, in the sense of creating a tremendous amount of community. I'm sure the ads stunk, though."He was in his early 20s and jobless in New Mexico; activism didn't pay, and he needed money. He kept goats, selling their milk and cheese, but the income was not enough. So he found work as an assistant midwife, helping indigent Mexican farmworkers deliver their babies. "And then, well, a baby was born right on the border, of uncertain nationality. The mother was schizophrenic and the father was in jail, and, I ended up taking care of it." For months, with one arm he bottle-fed a newborn girl while he programmed computers with the other."Finally the father got out of jail, and to say thank you, he gave me a car. It had been hit by a police bullet, but they'd put a bumper-sticker over the hole." (He last heard of the girl at the end of the 80s, when she was 10 years old, "and doing well".) The car was a rusty Dodge Dart with a makeshift ignition and no floor - "you saw the road going by through it" - but it was Lanier's   ticket out. Driving so slowly that he was stopped by suspicious police in Arizona, he managed to make it to Silicon Valley.It was the early 80s and the sprawling suburbs and office parks around Palo Alto, California, were pregnant with a sense of possibility. "They were, like, you can program that kind of computer? You've done this? Sure - you're totally employable! All of a sudden I was getting offers for jobs that paid beyond my wildest dreams. I was stunned." He quickly made a small fortune programming computer games, including the pioneering, graphically complex Moondust for the Commodore 64. But instead of replacing the car - or moving out of the garage in which he had taken up cut-price residence - he turned his tiny home into a workshop, and went back to tinkering with electronics."I walked into this thing - I'd never seen anything like it at all," recalls Steve Bryson, now a VR researcher at the North American Space Administration, who arrived in Lanier's garage when virtual reality technology was in its earliest stages. "It was feverish. A lot happened very quickly. I had long hair and wore pink shirts; we were pretty hippyish, and we were very, very excited about what we were doing."The excitement spread beyond the garage. "People were coming from all over, and saying: 'what the hell is this thing?'" Lanier recalls. The "thing" slowly took solid form, and Lanier joined forces with a fellow maverick programmer, Thomas Zimmerman, who had designed a glove to be used as an input device. "That was when the coolness index just went through the roof," says Bryson. Within   three years, a head-mounted display had been completed.Despite its revolutionary potential, the nuts and bolts of the technology are fairly straightforward to describe. The user straps on a headset, through which images are projected onto each eye to create the illusion of three dimensions, and wears a glove which senses hand movements, enabling them to interact with what they see. More ambitiously, the team later developed the DataSuit, a full-body garment capable of sensing movements of the arms, legs, torso and feet. Combined with the internet, such gadgets will allow groups of people thousands of miles apart to interact in a virtual space their brains cannot distinguish from reality.In September 1984, Lanier's groundbreaking work made the cover of Scientific American magazine, although it nearly didn't. Shortly before press time, a worried editor rang him demand to know what university or company was the young scientist affiliated to? None, Lanier replied. "Sir," said the editor, "at Scientific American we have a strict rule that states that an affiliation must be indicated after a contributor's name." Lanier grabbed a name out of thin air. "VPL Research," he blurted, thinking it would maybe stand for visual, or virtual, programming language. (He did not pause to consider any other possible meanings.) When the magazine was published, investors started calling, and the virtual company became a real one. Soon, it was supplying research labs around the world with virtual-reality equipment. Full VR systems sold for $225,000. At its height, VPL had annual sales of $6m.His idiosyncratic public image - specifically, his dreadlocks - may have helped, but he insists that it was not cultivated. "I'm always finding people say that other people must think this or that &#91;about my hair&#93;, but I rarely encounter anyone who thinks this thing," he says. "It just grew on me this way when I was a kid. It's nothing."It was Lanier who christened the embryonic technology. "I don't even like it," he says of the term today. "It's a stupid term. But I thought it had a ring to it, and it sounded quirky enough, and right on the edge of being contradictory - but not quite - so that it would grab attention, and be a nice cute phrase. I was on a train in Italy some time later, and I had thought of a term that was much better than 'virtual reality'. But then there was some distraction with the ticket conductor and I never got it back."The vast creative possibilities of virtual reality have made it, for many, a natural match with drug culture. "Virtual reality," observes the cultural anthropologist David Hess, "strikes me as a high-tech version of shamanism. The idea of producing controlled virtual worlds is as old as hallucinogenic trance voyages and vision quests." But Lanier disagrees vehemently. Harnessing technology to the power of the imagination, he argues, should be a way for its users to engage more, not to escape from engagement - a philosophy he applies to himself with rigour. "I've never used marijuana, and I haven't tasted alcohol since my bar mitzvah. I've even given up chocolate."If you run into somebody at a cocktail party now, they'll think of VR as an escapist medium, and I know why it happened. In the 1980s, Tim &#91;Leary&#93; made his liv ing on the speaking circuit and he got this idea that virtual reality would be a striking thing to talk about. At first glance, it does seem to have something to do with the psychedelic experience. But it's almost the logical opposite. You're not in retreat, you're not passive, you're not having an experience wash over you. You have to be intentional. You get tired. It's a waking state activity. It's not like taking drugs; it's like going on a hike. Or -" he pauses to construct a characteristically elaborate metaphor - "it's like going on a hike and being the sculptor of the mountain at the same time."But Lanier's view of where this leads - to an enhancement of human communication, instead of to super-intelligent computers - baffles many proponents of artificial intelligence, Daniel Dennett among them. Is he saying, Dennett demands, that computers with human-like intelligence - or even more - are "something we couldn't develop, or shouldn't develop?" Neither, says Lanier: artificial intelligence is something we could never know, by definition, if we had attained it. "Despite these   ridiculous tests we give our children, there is no measure for intelligence, and treating it as an engineering goal puts one in a very strange position," he says."You can measure speed. But if you want to engineer a device to maximise its beauty, you no longer have a measurement device. It becomes subjective. Artificial intelligence is like that. When you talk to a person, there's an element of faith on your part that there really is somebody at home." Proponents of AI, Lanier says, need to "justify why someone should show this good faith to a computer".Alvy Ray Smith concurs. "I know that no scientist knows how to make a machine intelligent or conscious. I know many who believe it's possible, but that's different. That's religion. I don't mind people having the religion. I suppose I have it too. But to cross the line and claim it's a done deal is not good science."This argument frustrates neuroscientists such as Dennett and Pinker, who tend to argue that the experience of human consciousness - the "feeling of what happens" - is a kind of error or illusion, or an accidental byproduct of the brain-computer's operation. Lanier likes to goad them. Several times, he has suggested in public that Dennett himself may actually be a flesh-covered robot, lacking any internal experience. "Although if he is a fleshy automaton, he's a very good-natured one."Mesmerised by the technical and conceptual possibilities, Lanier paid little attention to the legal and commercial niceties of running a company. "I signed some stupid documents," he explains. In accepting financing from a French firm, Thomson-  CSF, he staked his patents in virtual reality as collateral against a loan. So when, in the early 90s, VPL's fortunes began to tumble, his patents were lost in the fiasco that followed. Lanier blames the micromanagement of Thomson, which made a hostile takeover bid for the firm, and he now expresses a violent dislike of French bureaucrats. (After seven more years of legal wrangling, the patents are now owned by the software giant Sun Microsystems.)At 32 Lanier was ousted from VPL, abandoned without payoff or patents. Towards the end of the period he married and two years later had a "difficult" divorce from, a woman named Deborah (he will not reveal anything else about her; she is "another person who leads a private life," he says). He has described the whole experience as a "big psychic blow". On his sacking from VPL, though, he says he feels no resentment. "It sounds so un-American to say this, but I'm so self-indulgent, I have these instruments, a pipe organ . . . how rich is one supposed to be? Maybe this is my lefty guilt, but it seems to me our sense of entitlement is exaggerated in this society. I can't imagine me, and the life I've had, feeling as if I'd been screwed."And if his marriage and his business had both collapsed, that did not quite represent the totality of Lanier's life: for years, he has pursued a seemingly quite separate career as a professional musician. As a child in New Mexico, he had idolised Conlon Nancarrow, the American composer declared "prematurely anti-fascist" by the US   government for fighting in Spain against Franco; Lanier travelled miles to visit the exile at his home in Mexico. Lanier's was not, really, a classical training; among its legacies is a method he devised for playing lightning-fast arpeggios on a piano keyboard after watching Nancarrow cut piano rolls to achieve the effect. Lanier does it manually, with a rolling movement involving the back of his hand that would make more conventionally educated pianists blanch.As an experimental musician, he has worked with composers and musicians from Sean Lennon to Philip Glass, amassing a collection of extraordinary and vast instruments which clutter his TriBeCa apartment in New York. Among them is a triple-contra-bass recorder and a glass harmonica - the series of rotating glass cylinders invented by Benjamin Franklin which produce haunting harmonies when played with a finger wetted in vinegar. On September 11, the building - five blocks from Ground Zero - was evacuated, and a tap left running on a higher floor caused flooding damage; about 30 instruments were lost. But more are on the way: a Dutch craftsman is building Lanier the world's largest fully chromatic modern flute; it will be nearly five metres tall."He is unique, and he is a work in progress, which is the best posture for a creative person to take," says his friend John Brockman, the literary agent who also represents him and runs Edge.org, an online and real-life organisation which brings together thinkers from a broad range of disciplines for discussion and debate on grand, meaning-of-life questions. "Most people become adult and they die; this guy can process so many things at once. My favourite people are people you can't describe - it means something's going on. If you can describe it, it's dead." This is how Lanier thinks of himself, too. The two worlds are not quite discrete. In his performance work, Shards For Piano And Virtual World, Lanier's piano music generates fleeting, pulsating three-dimensional shapes on a screen - the kind that scared his young New Mexican neighbours. There is another connection, too. "The instrument collection is basically pure neurosis but I do think of instruments as having the best interfaces that have ever been designed," he says. "If there's any object in human experience that's a precedent for what a computer should be like, it's a musical instrument: a device where you can explore a huge range of possibilities through an interface that connects your mind and your body, allowing you to be emotionally authentic and expressive."On May 9, 2000, in university laboratories in Chapel Hill in North Carolina and Pennsylvania, and Lanier's lab in Armonk, New York, Lanier and his colleagues reached another significant landmark in the history of virtual reality. It was the first demonstration of "tele-immersion", the technology Lanier has been developing since the collapse of VPL. This time there are no goggles or wired-up gloves; the idea, instead, is that people at separate locations appear physically, three-dimensionally present to each other, in real space. A "sea of cameras" focussed on each participant captures their image from a multitude of perspectives and seeks to recreate them on three-dimensional displays. "Unlike the cartoonish virtual worlds I had worked with for many years, the remote people and places I was seeing were clearly derived from reality."The project is in its early stages: the images of the three researchers, sitting at their respective desks, were clunky and blurred, and it was not quite possible to forget the screens from which their images were being projected. The initiative is closely linked to "Internet 2", a network currently costing $60m per year to develop, which will have the capacity to transmit the vast quantities of data that tele-immersion requires. But the possibilities are clear. Some of them make Lanier uncomfortable - if tele-immersion could eliminate the need for some forms of travel, for example, would that increase or reduce the potential for real human communication? - but he has to ignore the qualms. He has no option."This is our quest, as a civilisation," he says. "To answer the question: how do we save ourselves from ourselves without losing ourselves? I think there's a reasonable, educated guess that one part of the answer must involve some degree of channels of communication, of self-knowledge. And that's why I maintain my faith that research in new forms of media is ultimately for the good. I'm an advocate of human nature. I don't want us to abdicate our nature in favour of a technological agenda. And yet I'm advocating something that's quite flawed, and that's difficult, no question about it. I'm still finding my balance."Life at a glance:Jaron LanierBorn:May 3, 1960Education:New Mexico State University, Las Cruces; Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, NY.Marital status:Divorced.Career:1970s political activist and musical performer; early '80s computer programmer, Atari; '83   founder, VPL Research; '93 chief technical officer, Domain Simulations; '97 lead scientist, National Tele-Immersion Initiative.Some landmarks:1984 first commercial interface gloves; '87 commercially available head-mounted displays; '89 networked virtual world system; 2000, first   demonstration of tele-immersion.Some music:'98 Mirror/ Storm, symphony commissioned by St Paul Chamber Orchestra; '99 soundtrack for Three Seasons, award winner at Sundance festival; '00 Canons For Wroclaw and other pieces for the 1000th anniversary of its founding, Wroclaw, Poland.
AOL users who got into Harvard may not be aware of their success: AOL's filtering system decided that some of the e-mail notifications werespam, reports the Boston Globe.
ViaHaddock: From theNew York Times(free registration required): In re-written internet fables, the late bird gets the worm. On December 16, a little known company called IWon bought the internet portal Excite for under $10m. Three years ago, it was valued at $6.7billion. IWon, which managed to turn its first profitable month in October this year (think about it) plans to run Excite with a fraction of the staff - and a fraction of the costs - that Excite needed.
While Blogger was being hacked,the Registerwas being taken offline by "an administrative error". It appears someone at the tech news site's ISP, PSI Net Europe, accidentally had their domain name disconnected from their webspace. Result? Blank screens - and rumours around the net that the Register, whichrecentlyhad to make a third of its staff redundant, had gone belly-up completely.
"At least 537 Internet companies folded in the past year, compared with 225 in 2000, according to Webmergers.com, a company that provides research to the Internet industry," says a CNETstory. That's more than 10 a week.
If you haven't been too busy to notice, Blogger has been offline "due to a security breach (ie, hackers/crackers, whatever you like to call them)". I can think of a few other words to call them, actually, but none suitable for a family audience....
One of the problems with today's personal computers is that they don't come with a yellow plastic briefcase, or even the sticky labels and bottle of Tippex that are so important to long-term satisfaction. But if you are just unwrapping a new computer, now is the time to remedy these defects. And if you have had a machine for years, you may still be able to rescue it.Today, hardly any long-standing home computer user has the answers to life's tough questions, such as: Where is the Start Here leaflet for that CD-Rewriter? Where is the PC Pro cover disc you used to load a utility program three years ago? Where is the floppy with the original drivers for your sound card? And where are the case locking keys you never used?In every case, I know the answer. They are in the yellow plastic briefcase under my computer trolley.It does not have to be yellow or plastic, but it should be cheap and fairly sturdy. The point is that you need somewhere handy to put all the disks, manuals and odd bits of stuff that are essential to run - or to rescue - your machine. If the hard drive fails, you should be able to take out the case and reinstall everything, both from back-up discs and from scratch. One day you will be grateful not to have to hunt for any of this stuff in the loft.The other thing you need before you start is a decent mains extension cable with eight three-pin sockets. You may think you only need to plug in two or three things - computer, monitor, printer or whatever - but in the long run you will need more. Modems, external drives, scanners, handheld computers, mobile phones, battery chargers and other peripherals often need to be plugged into the mains, and you will need somewhere close to the PC to plug them in.I use a Belkin SurgeMaster II, bought from Dixons, which also provides protection from mains power surges and lightning strikes, plus in and out sockets for telephone   and AV cables. Lightning may not strike often, but I'm ready for it.Putting a PC together is, these days, a simple job. If your supplier is competent, all the cables will be colour coded, so it should be obvious what goes where. (You may have to   squint a bit.) However, it is not always obvious which way up the connectors fit. I solve this problem by putting a small dab of Tippex on the side that goes on top.Another useful tip is to label the mains plugs, which is where the sticky labels come in. Get the power cable for the system box, label the mains plug, and write CPU on it in big, bold letters. Label the other plugs SCR, PR, MOD or whatever. When your computer wiring looks like three plates of spaghetti - and it will - and you are on your knees wondering which plug to pull, you will be glad you did.Finally, there's the question of packaging: you should keep it, though you can fold the boxes flat. If the worst comes to the worst, the machine may have to be packed up and returned to the manufacturer, and without the original packaging, you will be stuck. Even if the machine works perfectly, you may still need the boxes if you sell the computer in years to come.SoftwareOnce you have the hardware plugged in, you can organise the software. This part has three stages: organising the hard drive; installing extra software; and taking a back-up.Most computers nowadays come with one huge hard drive (C:). I prefer to have it partitioned three ways to have sections for the operating system and utilities (C: ), applications (D:) and data (E:). You don't need to reformat your system to do this: just organise things in similar subdirectories.If you have bought a Windows PC, Microsoft has made a gesture in the right direction. There are folders called My Documents and Program Files for data and applications. It is a good idea to use them, and it is a shame Microsoft sometimes doesn't. However, it is possible to get most applications to use these directories. For example,   I have set up Outlook Express email to use a My Mail directory inside My Documents.Having all your data in one place makes it easier to back up, and ideally, easier to back up to just one CD. If you have thousands of MP3 files, however, this will not be possible. Instead, you should store those in a separate directory - call it My Music, perhaps. Create more subdirectories when any directory grows beyond the capacity of a CD-R disc: 650 megabytes.If you are upgrading from an old PC, you will want to move some software, settings and data across. XP provides a wizard to transfer settings on disk, while Alohabob's PC Relocator - available from Amazon.co.uk - will move many or all the things you need using a cable connector, supplied. You can also copy data across using Laplink with a Laplink cable, or Microsoft's built in Direct Cable Connection.If you transfer things between machines by copying whole directories to a CD, remember that files on CD become read-only, and applications such as Outlook Express will not be able to use them. Go into the directory on your new PC, highlight all the files (e.g. press Ctrl-A), right-click and select Properties, untick the box marked Read-only, and click OK.If you use the internet, you should also think about installing a firewall to keep intruders out. There are two good firewalls available free for home use: Zone Alarm (www.zonelabs.com) and Tiny's Personal Firewall (www.tinysoftware.com). If you have problems with one, the other will probably work fine.PC users should also think seriously about installing either Roxio's GoBack 3 (www.roxio.com) or Imagine Lan's ConfigSafe (www. imaginelan.com). At some point, your system will probably go wrong, because of a bad application, a virus infection, or a simple mistake.At that point you will want to go back to an earlier state, and that is the option GoBack provides. (A simple version of GoBack is included in Windows XP.) The only disadvantage is that it does slow the system down slightly. ConfigSafe, meanwhile, lets you take a snapshot of your PC's settings, so that you can revert to an earlier set up. What it won't do is take you back to the point before you accidentally deleted an important file, or whatever.BackupIf the worst comes to the worst, you can always reformat - that is, wipe clean - your computer's hard drive and reinstall everything from scratch. However, this may take a day or two, depending on how much software you have installed. It would obviously be better if you could reinstall a clean back-up that also includes your main software and settings. That is what you have now, so back it up before it is too late!Windows usually includes rudimentary back-up software, or you may already have something that has been bundled with a CD-RW or Iomega drive. For a wide range of alternatives, seedmoz.org/Computers/Software/Backup. Centered's Second Copy (www.centered.com) is worth a look.If you don't have GoBack, you can still record a "disk image": an exact copy of the hard drive. This will at least take you back to the point where you took the snapshot. The best known examples of software which can do this are Symantec's Norton Ghost (www.norton-ghost.com), PowerQuest's Drive Image, NovaStor's IntantRecovery, and IYS' EZ-Imager. However, most of them are aimed at professional users, and so may require more computing expertise than most new PC users possess.Either way, remember it is more important to back up your data - mail, addresses, project work, the draft of your blockbuster - than to back up the operating system or applications.Those bits of software can always be restored from original discs which are, naturally, safe in a yellow plastic briefcase underneath your desk.
1 GoogleGoogle is still to me - and millions of others - a daily miracle. If the internet only consisted of this ultra-fast search engine (Google) it would have justified its existence many times over.  You can type in (almost) anything, however obscure, into the   space provided and - literally - in a fraction of a second it has come up with hundreds, if not thousands, of references.  If knowledge is power, then Google commands the gateway.It claims access to 3bn web documents - a total that is rising even as you read this. As a result of recent improvements, it can now search picture libraries and 20 years of usenet news groups. The ancient Library of Alexandria had  40,000 volumes - a fact uncovered, of course, through a Google search lasting 0.11 seconds.It is still all too easy to get blasé about what the web can do - witness the numbers of people who moan about having to wait seconds for getting information that 10 years ago would have taken days. Even so, Google stands apart from the hundreds of rival search engines that have sprouted across the web. It may be ousted, just as it saw off rival search engines such as AltaVista, but it can not get much faster than it is without becoming a super-charged Hawking engine searching in negative time.I gave Google a few quick tests while writing this. It came up with a  picture of Manet's Olympia in 0.23 seconds and in reply to a search for E=MC2 it emerged with, among other things, a recording of Einstein himself explaining the equivalence of energy and matter. I then asked for the most obscure word I could remember, honorificabilitudinatibus, the mock Latin word from Love's Labour Lost that contains an anagram supposedly proving that Bacon wrote Shakespeare. This time there was only one reference, but it took 0.18 seconds, less time than it takes to pronounce the word.      In case you think I have exhausted the superlatives, hang on. It is also extremely easy to learn. When I demonstrate it to technophobic friends (and colleagues!) I usually say it will take 45 seconds from a sitting position. But this is only because I like to leave a margin of error. It normally takes less than 15 seconds, depending on how fast they type.Some people complain that such search engines create information overload, but that is silly. The overload of information exists anyway.  Search engines such as Google merely tell you what is there. And the more specific you are in describing what you want, the less superfluous will be the material you receive. It is the solution to overload, not the problem. And the downside to Google? I'll need notice of that question.Victor Keegan2 Yahoo!Yahoo (Yahoo) was the first wonder of the web, and in many respects, it still is. It started in January 1994 when two Californian graduate students, Jerry Yang and David Filo, starting compiling a database of links, mainly for their personal use. But well before the end of the year, it had become recognisable as the Yahoo we know today, and love.In the past seven years, Yahoo has expanded its range enormously, partly through a long string of acquisitions. Yahoo now offers almost everything you could want: email, instant messaging, chat, clubs, photo albums, home web pages, file storage, shops, auctions, classified ads and more.There are two interesting tensions in the way Yahoo operates. The first is that it has antithetical aims: it wants to send surfers away as quickly as possible, but also have them stick around as long as possible. The site's original function was to provide users with high quality links to other web sites. The better this works, the less time you spend on Yahoo. But as a regular visitor, of course, you may well be tempted to use the other services. You can spend hours doing your email, chatting, shopping, reading the news or listening to Yahoo Radio, all of which may involve receiving lots of banner ads.The other tension is between Yahoo's image - based mainly on its homely beginnings - and the corporate reality. Yahoo is not run by amateurs: it is a big, rich, aggressive multinational corporate. If someone has a good idea on the web - a site that keeps your pictures, coordinates party invitations, provides advice or whatever - then pretty soon there is a Yahoo version too. It is possible to compete against Yahoo, but it is not easy. Like Microsoft in the software business, it is big enough to buy you or bury you.If Yahoo faces a serious threat, it is an internal one. The site's homely image is reinforced by the design, which looks like a jumble of text. This is extremely effective: you can find what you want easily, and pages download really quickly. But eventually some idiot of a manager is going to let some brain dead web designer make it "look better", and it will become a standard corporate web site. When that happens, Yahoo will start to decline.But it will long be remembered for doing what it did best: make the web's growing array of resources easily accessible to ordinary people.Jack Schofield3 Project GutenbergProject Gutenberg (http://promo.net/pg/) isn't the simplest thing on the web. But there is something generous, eclectic and all-embracing about it, an attempt to get out-of-copyright books to people who might really want to use them. The idea is all-embracing, but the achievement is not.Authors under the letter K, for instance, include one poem from John Keats (Lamia) but just about everything from Kipling. You can check Martin Luther King's "I have a Dream" speech and the inauguration address of John F Kennedy. I went looking for (and found) Kinglake's Eothen and got lost in an unexpected wealth of Charles Kingsley.The letter P plays host not just to Thomas ("The rights of man") Paine but also Albert Bigelow Paine, who wrote a comprehensive biography of Mark Twain, the essays of Walter Pater and the poems of Banjo Patterson, the annotated diaries of Samuel Pepys, the Mayflower Compact of the Pilgrim fathers, the letters of Pliny the Younger."The Project Gutenberg etexts should be so easily used that no one should ever have to care about how to use, read, quote and search them..." says the Gutenberg Philosophy. Most of the books are in the public domain, and if you think the selection is haphazard, that too is one of the project's joys.The books are converted into etexts and archived by volunteers. This is a cyberlandscape compiled by old-fashioned bookmen, and bookmen have their quirks. I had planned to see in there an author called Quirk, but by that time, the site had seized up altogether, as if by crabbed old age. But then, how many web projects can claim to have been started in 1971?Tim Radford4 MultimapOnce we were lost, now we are found - or at least have a little printed-out hint on the dashboard. The advent of Multimap (Multimap) has transformed the lives of those of us who have to get anywhere to a deadline.Now, instead of acquiring (or finding) an A-Z or local guidebook, or even having to ask a human being every time we have to go somewhere new, we can interrogate multimap.com and get a map of the locale. Then it is simply a case of printing it off (with a range of magnifications to help with motorway junctions or nearby stations). There are other mapping services - Streetmap (www.steetmap.co.uk) remains a fast way to find London streets. But Multimap wins because of the breadth of its services, speed and easy navigation. Multimap even makes it easy to look beyond these shores, with maps of the wider world available too - it is truly a web-powered lighthouse to the world.Neil McIntosh5 EbayEbay (Ebay), which conducts online auctions, is the most impressive large internet company. This is because it is providing a service millions find useful that didn't happen before the web was invented, and which could not exist without the web.Ebay has opened up a global market place in which people from China, San Francisco, Moscow or Scunthorpe can bid against each other for products (new and old) put up for auction by someone in Durban.The tiniest of small businesses can suddenly find a global market for their products by putting them into Ebay for auction. Customers rate the people who have been selling to them according to their reliability, so building up a track record reducing, if not eliminating, the scope for fraud.Ebay is good because it is an enabler. Although it is in business to make money (moderately succesfully so far) it does it by enabling others to make money too. Definitely worth much more than the sum of its parts.Victor Keegan6 AmazonOne day, talking on the phone to a webbed friend, I raved about a book I'd read. "That sounds good," he said, tapping away. "I've just ordered it." And that is the beauty of Amazon (Amazon). For regular users, it has made itself the shortest possible path between wanting and buying.Maybe you could get something cheaper, and perhaps you could get it quicker, but probably not by much. Could you get it easier? I doubt it. The pages are fast and not overloaded with graphics. The search engine and one-click ordering system let you find and order something in seconds, and buy. But this is not the whole story. Amazon also uses technology very cleverly to inform you, to keep you on the site, and to tempt you to buy more stuff. Like this book? Here are another three you might like. Why not read what other users say about them? You can always add them to your wish list. Oh, and people who bought this book also bought these....In sum, Amazon does not simply automate the physical process of buying a book, it makes it into a new and different experience. It even pioneered the use of associates, kicking back a small percentage to websites that urged their readers to buy from Amazon.It now even owns the Internet Movie Database (Imdb). IMDB is one of the wonders of the web on its own. Its database includes information on more than a quarter of a million film and television productions made since 1892, almost half a million actors and actresses, 50,000 directors, pictures, film awards, quotes, trivia, user ratings and more.And when you've read about, say, Claude Faraldo's Themroc (1972), one click on the UK/VHS button takes you to the Themroc page at Amazon where (if you are already signed in) another click orders it.Jack Schofield7 BloggerFew websites can claim to have radically changed the face of the wider web.Bloggeris one site that has managed that.By offering a simple route to "push-button publishing for the people" Blogger has given birth to a generation of weblogs, or blogs, which simply wouldn't have existed otherwise. Along the way, it has helped make the world wide web a vastly more interesting place.A few years ago, home pages were almost universally dull, because creating them was a fiddle that made it just too tempting to post and forget. Most became sleepy relics.Then came Blogger and, suddenly, it was easy to create a dynamic, constantly changing website. The creative talents of people who otherwise couldn't be bothered with web authoring were set loose.Adding a new entry to your online journal can take just seconds, takes little or no technical knowledge and is published - as it promises on the front page - at the push   of a button.  Evan Williams, one of its founders, is a contributor to the End of Free weblog (Endoffree) which suggests that one day we will have to pay for Blogger's usefulness. But, with new functionality being promised for the New Year, us regular users would happily stump up.Neil McIntosh
Merry Christmas to all... :-)
Is the desktop dead? That's the question asked by an interesting piece in MIT'sTechnology Review, which looks at the continuing effort to replace the desktop - the system of files and folders we use to navigate round our computers - with something else. As the article explains, there's doubt that there is a need to replace the 30 year-old metaphor. Not to mention the argument over what would come next. The problem is, any change to the way computers work is met with resistance - witness the reaction to the similarly candy-coloured new looks of Mac OSX or Windows XP. And let's not even talk about what would happen if they tried to make the file system "intelligent". Anyone remember Clippy?
It was meant to be an operating system that guaranteed a "safe, secure and private computing experience".  But for millions of PC users it was more like a case of "here we go again". Microsoft has admitted that its latest operating system - billed as its most secure ever - contains several critical flaws that could leave computer users prone to hacker attacks.The company confessed that its new operating system Windows XP, launched less than two months ago, contains severe glitches in its code that could allow hackers to take control of computers using the software and connected to the internet.Microsoft has reacted quickly and released a quick bit of code that it claims will patch up the problem. But their difficulty with hackers is much wider than that. The fact is that many in the hacking communities simply loathe Microsoft and many spend a fair part of their talent attempting to sabotage the company at every opportunity they can.Most people see hackers as a menace or simply a juvenile nuisance. Many are. Others are simply seeking recognition from their peers or trying to get jobs in the highly lucrative software security market.  But some hackers - and writers of computer viruses  - consider themselves to be ethical warriors in a war against what they see as the "evil empire" Microsoft. Users of other operating systems like Apple and Linux simply do not come under attack as often. If at all.Also, many see Microsoft's products as being unnecessarily complicated - rococo pieces of software that force many users to buy into ever more powerful machines. Windows XP has been much criticised. The Observer's John Naughton recently called it  "a monstrous, bloated brute that requires a state of the art PC and two gigabytes of hard disk space before it will even say 'hello'. This means any consumer foolish enough to want to run XP will probably have to buy a new PC".True, Microsoft has admirers. Many of them argue that the company did much to standardise PC use in the early nineties. But anti-trust cases and a certain amount of megalomania from the company bosses has not helped their case. And let's not forget that Microsoft's near-monopoly position makes it the Manchester United of the digital world.And we have been here before, sadly far too many times. In a remarkably similar case two years ago, a group of hackers known as the Cult of the Dead Cow released a piece of software called Windows Trojan, more often referred to as Back Orifice. This software allowed users to control others computers - without their consent - across the internet.Will Microsoft ever be rid of the hackers? Probably not, or not at least until its dominance of the software market comes to an end. While it remains top dog, they will cracking their code will always attract more kudos in hacking circles. But many also think that their aggressive marketing strategies do nothing but attract trouble. And XP - with its streaming software aimed at muscling on the RealPlayer's audio market - shows precious little sign of them changing that.&#183;Microsoft has released a 'patch' for users of XP  as well as Windows 98 and Me operating systems. It can be downloaded fromhere.
Isthisthe most pointless use of two URLs you have ever seen?
America's military elite have swapped their rifles for joysticks by turning to a British computer game to fine-tune their combat training.Operation Flashpoint, a game set during the Cold War, has so impressed military planners that the US Marine Corps has struck a deal to be supplied with a specially modified version.Produced by Warwickshire-based Codemasters, the game was released on to the market over the summer and has become an instant best-seller because of its hyper-realistic imagery and complex rules. It came to the attention of the Marines when an officer in San Francisco downloaded a version from the internet. He was so impressed he contacted the firm to arrange a demonstration. 'We went over there and showed them how the game worked and they wanted their own version,' said David Solari, US marketing manager for the firm.The deal with the Marines is the latest step in an extraordinary tale of success for Codemasters. The software company was founded by entrepreneur David Darling and his brother, Richard, in the mid-1980s while they were still at school. The firm was originally run out of their grandparents' shed, but now employs more than 300 people and makes millions of pounds in profits.US Marines will play the game as a way of running   through combat scenarios with the most serious risk being only blisters on their fingers. Missions in the game range from individual firefights to commanding a squad in a tank battle.Designers even envisage networked systems being set up on aircraft carriers so Marines can hone their skills before they go into battle. 'Marines spend a lot of time at sea and this could help   alleviate boredom as well as keep them trained and ready for a mission,' Solari said.The game supplied to the Marines has been adapted to include modern equipment used by the regiment. The computer-generated soldiers have even been given Marine-style haircuts. It has also had modifications that make it more powerful than the commercial version. The game is so realistic that - just as in the real world - its virtual bullets travel at the speed of sound and players will not even hear the shots that kill them.The US Army has long used computers to run wargames. But the explosive growth of the computer games industry has seen rapid advances in the private sector, where investment and technology has outstripped that available to defence planners.David Darling said  Operation Flashpoint  could even be used to simulate scenarios from Afghanistan or other countries in the hunt for Osama bin Laden.
Palm has lost a lawsuit brought by Xerox, which owns a patent on "the computerised interpretation of handwriting". Xerox received a patent for what it calls Unistrokes after Palm had already started selling Pilot handhelds with its own Graffiti system. Xerox's general counsel Christina Claytontold theWashington Post: "Either Palm will have to cease production of its handheld organizer or license the technology from Xerox."
Microsoft has been caught out with anothersecurity flaw, this time in the Universal Plug &amp; Play software that ships with Windows XP and ME (and if you are running Internet Connection Sharing, it affects Windows 98/98SE, too). The bug, which depends on overflowing a bit of buffer memory, was found by Marc Maiffret, the chief hacking officer ateEye, who told the San Jose Mercury News: "What we found was by no means trivial. The people who wrote the code were doing everything almost perfectly.'' The story,here, also covers a bug found in Oracle's top of the line database software, which was found by David Litchfield of Next Generation Security Software in Surrey. It is a pity this one has not had more publicity. Oracle's bumptious chief executive Larry Ellison, while slagging off IBM and Microsoft at Comdex in November, claimed that Oracle 9i was"unbreakable".Wrong again, Larry.
The largest broadband company in the world will be created after AT&amp;T, the US telecoms company, agreed to merge its cable television business with rival Comcast in a $72bn (£50bn) deal.The deal, struck late on Wednesday, ended a five-month auction which attracted all the leading players in the US cable industry. The $120bn new company, AT&amp;T Comcast, will have about 22m customers. Each firm agreed to pay the other $1.5bn if either walks away from the deal.American cable TV has been transformed from a highly fragmented market with thousands of operators to one dominated by five companies. Next largest is Time Warner Cable, which has 12.7m subscribers, followed by Charter with 6.9m and Cox with 6.2m.The merger is part of the continuing break-up of AT&amp;T announced in October last year. The company reiterated plans to issue a tracking stock for its consumer telephony business, leaving AT&amp;T as a focused business services provider.The auction of the cable business, AT&amp;T Broadband, began in July after Comcast made an unsolicited offer. AT&amp;T rejected the bid but said it would explore "financial and strategic alternatives" - effectively putting the division up for sale.Comcast will issue $47bn in shares and assume $25bn of AT&amp;T debt. The price values each AT&amp;T cable customer at $4,500. Comcast was backed in part by Microsoft.AT&amp;T Comcast will have a significant presence in 17 of the 20 largest metropolitan areas in the US. The aim will be to roll out high-speed data and phone services to more cable TV customers - the so-called "triple play" of television, the internet and telephony.C Michael Armstrong, chairman and chief executive of AT&amp;T, said: "This is a leap forward in realising a vision that thousands of AT&amp;T people have worked toward - bringing together affordable broadband TV, voice and data."Ralph Roberts, chairman of Comcast, described the agreement as a "once in a lifetime opportunity".Analysts said the merger should not face too many obstacles in Washington.
Tens of thousands of computer users in Britain are at risk from hacker attacks after Microsoft last night said its latest version of Windows, billed as one of the most secure ever, contains several serious flaws.Windows XP, the latest version of its operating system software, has glitches which allow hackers to take control of another computer without the user doing anything other than connecting to the internet.A hacker could then steal or destroy any files stored on the computer without the victim knowing anything about it.A Microsoft official acknowledged the risk was unprecedented, and said the company had released a free fix on its website yesterday. The company was urging XP users to use the fix immediately.Scott Culp, manager of Microsoft's security response centre, said the flaw was a "very serious vulnerability"."This is the first network-based, remote compromise that I'm aware of for Windows   desktop systems," he said. "Every Windows XP user needs to immediately take action."The flaws were discovered five weeks ago by three independent security researchers from eEye Digital Security in California, led by Marc Maiffret, a 21-year-old former hacker.Mr Maiffret, the firm's "chief hacking officer", has recently advised the FBI and the White House on internet security.The vulnerabilities in the software are likely to be a huge embarrassment for the company and could undermine widespread adoption of Windows XP, especially being so close to Christmas when a lot of new PCs will be bought.The company also boasts that one of 10 reasons for technology experts to buy Windows XP is the promise of a "safe, secure and private computing experience".Microsoft said companies and internet providers can reduce the threat by properly configuring their internet traffic-directing devices.
How would you like an ID chip implant, like ProfessorKevin Warwick? An American company could be the first to market the idea, according to the LA Times storyhere.
Chip sales suffered their worst decline in history this year, reportsReuters.
Handspring -- the handheld computer company founded by the people who started Palm -- is raising almost $60 million, Most will come from astock issue, but Qualcomm, a US-based wireless communications company, is investing almost $10 million. Handspring is fairly vague about what it is going to do with the money, However, early next year it will be selling theTreo, a neat little phone that uses the Palm operating system.Handspring is certainly making life tough for Palm, which yesterday reported a quarterly loss of $54 million on sales that plunged 44% from $522 million to $290 million.Read that storyhere.
1 Grand Theft Auto 3 (PS2)Complete freedom of action is the key here: you can commandeer all kinds of vehicles, from sports cars to taxis to boats; or you can get out and walk. You can play primary missions, tackle minor assignments, or just cruise around and enjoy the view. It is huge, it is violent and the soundtrack is great. Arguably the first essential purchase for the PlayStation 2.Andy Bodle2 Pro Evolution Soccer (PS2)Despite its rudimentary presentation and appalling commentary, Pro Evolution, below, plays, and looks, like a dream. Goals are as hard, and as satisfying, to score as in real life, while the multiplayer options (for up to eight players) will keep you going until next Christmas. Throw in some extensive tactical tinkering, which will excite Championship Manager aficionados, and a league option, and footy fans will be in heaven. It may not have enough club teams but Pro Evolution Soccer is the greatest football game the world has seen.Greg Howson3 Black &amp; White (PC)Not everyone's idea of a great "game" but for vision and simplicity there are few titles to match it. Peter Molyneux's big idea, above, is as simple as his others: become an all-powerful deity by either tending your flock or throwing them into volcanoes. Excellent 3D visuals, unmatched AI and a sense of fun keeps Black and White at the top of the Christmas tree.Mike Anderiesz4 Civilization 3 (PC)Civilization was the best game in the world when it appeared a decade ago. It has improved a lot since then, particularly in the sound and graphics departments. The problem is that everything else has improved a lot more, and turn-based strategy games must seem slow to today's run-and-shoot gamers. Still, Civ has a depth and subtlety most video games lack. And like chess, it is fairly easy to play, but hard to master.Jack Schofield5 Championship Manager 01/02 (PC)It is hard to sustain the illusion that you could play brilliantly for Manchester United, but perfectly reasonable to think you could do a better job of managing the team. Championship Manager 3 Season 01/02 gives you the chance to prove it, at least to yourself. But it can be tough, and the latest edition - a more accurate simulation than last year's version - is tougher than ever.Jack Schofield6 Jak &amp; Daxter (PS2)From the makers of Crash Bandicoot, a glorious free-roaming exploration game, marrying pleasurably old-school platform mechanics with amusing mini-games and the chance to ride a hoverbike or a large, irritable bird. The gameworld is wonderfully atmospheric and coherent: areas you will explore later are visible from miles away. And, with its gargantuan architecture, subtle colour palette, and liberal use of heat haze and particle effects, it is the best-looking PS2 game to date. Hardly cerebral, but constantly engaging and almost absurdly pretty.Steven Poole7 Return to Castle Wolfenstein (PC)The dishy-looking great-grandson of the great-granddaddy of all first-person shooters, below left, boasts impressive animation, varied levels, meaty weapons, superb level design, and frustratingly clever AI. And it lets you kill Nazis. Nuff said.Andy Bodle8 Zelda: Oracle of Seasons/Ages (GBC)The classic Zelda games are back on Game Boy Color with both titles offering sublime handheld gaming. So, if cerebral puzzling is your thing try Ages, while hack 'n' slash adventurers will enjoy Seasons. Finish one and receive a code to open up new areas in the other. And you can also play these on your new Game Boy Advance.Greg Howson9 Burnout (PS2)Driving cars round racetracks is all very well for the Gran Turismo 3 crowd, but sometimes you want a little more excitement. Burnout, above, delivers, forcing you to drive like a maniac through huge city courses densely populated with civilian traffic. Its purist arcade mechanics deliver the biggest adrenaline rush of the year.Steven Poole10 Operation Flashpoint Gold Edition (PC)Although a bit long in the tooth, Flashpoint, below, is still a game I find myself returning to, thanks to its brilliantly open-ended gameplay. This throws you in head first, learning new skills on every level as you yomp your way across convincing 3D landscapes simply trying to stay alive.Mike Anderiesz
Once upon a time shoppers would not trust an online supermarket to deliver the turkey in time for Christmas.But this year Tesco, Marks &amp; Spencer and other retailers including Amazon are are enjoying a boom in online sales.According to the latest internet shopping figures, UK consumers spent £123m on the web during November and December.Amazon was streets ahead of its rivals, however, proving shoppers are now comfortable with the notion of buying books over the net.One in three of all UK web surfers visited the site during November, according to figures from web research company Jupiter MMXI.People's reluctance to do their grocery shopping on the internet has also evaporated as more consumers than ever before bought their Christmas turkeys, chocolates and brandy online.Tesco.com, the leading online supermarket, claimed the lion's share of online cash. It attracted more than 1.3m unique users during November alone.According to Hitwise, Tesco.com commanded a massive 60% of all visitors to grocery and alcohol sites last week.The figures showed Sainsbury's lagging behind with a mere 15% sector share. Asda, meanwhile, attracted less than 10%.The results appear to show, when it comes to food shopping, the trusted brands bring in the customers. The top 10 retail sites were all household names.John Lewis, long considered one of the most old-fashioned of department stores, made it into the top 10 for the first time.More than one in four users of online toyshops visited Toys 'R' Us, while Hamley's, the famous London toy store, took a 9% market share.The most popular online clothes retailer was Next, which commanded a 15% market share.The little-known underwear retailer, Figleaves.com, also performed well over the past week, while the US gift site, Nordstrom, jumped from 53rd place in the sector rankings to third.Analysts claimed the change in the public's attitude to shopping online can be attributed to the disappearance of dodgy dot.coms as well as websites becoming more user friendly.Keynote Systems, a company that measures website performance, said download times on all the main e-commerce sites had been cut."At such a busy time as Christmas, online stores need to concentrate on making sure their sites are quick to download," said Olivier Carron, the vice-president of Keynote."This encourages shoppers to make purchases as the overall experience is a pleasant one. It would appear from our results that companies are heeding this advice," he added.
One day it may be possible to vote on who to eject from Parliament via text message.  Uses of SMS voting have been mainly frivolous, but SMS is poised to take over as the medium of choice, with a high-capacity voting system from Vodafone due on January 2.All the main UK networks offer SMS voting, and this year 40% of voters in Orange's Bafta audience award chose Wap, SMS or email, according to Vodafone.
Music fans could also, for the first time, text in votes to the BT Cellnet-sponsored Brit Awards. The choice was between Britney Spears (A), Ronan Keating (B), S Club 7 (C), Steps (D) and West Life (E). To select Britney Spears, the user would send a text message saying BRIT AWARD A to the mobile number 232.
Rival mobile operator One2One believes it is only a matter of time before SMS is used to vote in general elections. A poll carried out for them by the British Market Research Bureau International before this year's election found 44% of 18 to 24-year-olds who weren't planning to vote would be willing to using a mobile phone. And of all 18 to 24- year-olds keen to use a mobile (including active voters), 67% would choose SMS voting.Low turnout in the last UK election means governments are taking a long look at the alternatives. Hans Snook, the visionary who founded Orange, believes mobile voting will be used in elections. "It will also be used to make television programmes more interactive," he says."Although there are still security issues to be sorted out, a number of governments are looking at remote voting carefully." The Electoral Commission, for example, identified in October "a need for greater flexibility about when and how we vote".Kevin Taylor, head of messaging at Vodafone UK, 
predicts: "Voting on political issues isn't that far off, but the earliest adopters of SMS 
voting will be media organisations - including newspapers - carrying out polls, followed by retailers running competitions."He says Vodafone Big Mobile will be able to handle between one and two million votes in half an hour. The system, developed with Hampshire-based Telsis, receives text messages directly into Vodafone's message handling centre: the computer network address that receives the messages pretends to be a mobile phone number.But if traffic is heavy, it will be distributed automatically among the centre's seven sites, so it does not overload the network. The advantage 
is that only a single mobile number has to be given out to would-be texters; on rival systems, up to four are usually given out to users of different networks, simply to increase the number of SMS votes that can be received at once. This can be as low as 4,000 incoming votes per hour, or as high as three million a day on a single Orange SMS system.Big Mobile also adds up the votes and, unusually, for a bulk SMS system, it can reply.  For example, mobile voters could get an SMS back from a TV programme saying: "Tks 4 voting, don't 4get 2 check our web site after the show."
By May, the system should be able to handle small SMS donations of, say, £5 billed to the user's mobile bill, which could be useful for fundraisers such as Children in Need.Taylor believes it will cost several thousand pounds a year for a typical TV show to register, with much of the revenue from the SMSes split between Vodafone and the show. Some SMSes could cost as much as 25 to 30p.But the jury is still out on how much voters will pay to avoid a trip to the polling booth. Or, come to that, to eject their least favourite MP.
Anyone who has tried to connect to the internet from a laptop through a mobile phone will know the frustration. For what seems like hours, the cursor spins forlornly while the status bar at the bottom of the page makes no visible progress until you eventually lose patience and decide just to phone someone in the office and ask them to read your email for you.For too long, pathetic connection speeds have given the lie to the overworked rhetoric of the mobile communications revolution. But now  Vodafone has quietly launched a new mobile internet access service which uses GPRS (general packet radio service) rather than GSM handsets to offer speeds as fast as those available through a 56K modem plugged into a landline.Vodafone hopes the "real internet" service will provide consumers with the elusive "must-have" reason to go out and upgrade their existing mobiles to GPRS. Despite being available since the summer, GPRS handsets have failed to spark much enthusiasm, largely because of backlash from the abject failure of Wap phones to live up to the hype. UK sales of GPRS so far are believed to have barely passed the 50,000 mark.But the Vodafone service is impressive. Even highly graphic websites such as Guardian Unlimited load quickly and without fuss. Within a few minutes, you forget that you are not plugged into the wall. For those who have nightmares about setting up their laptop to run through a mobile phone, Vodafone provides a CD-Rom which does all the hard work with one click. The company has only just realised that a Mac version might also be a good idea.Because it is an always-on service, pricing is done by the amount of data transferred rather than the length of time online. Vodafone is offering a range of packages: the standard GPRS 5 package costs £17.50 a month and includes 5MB of data - equivalent to about two hours of non-stop browsing. Additional data is charged at 35p per kilobyte. As an introductory offer, anyone who signs up for the GPRS 5 plan before the end of January will get their first month's line rental free.
