The UK’s national security boss, Robert Hannigan, should come clean on surveillance and stop attacking technology companies, privacy experts have said.Intelligence agencies must use the debate sparked by Edward Snowden’s surveillance revelations to overhaul their attitude to privacy and oversight, said the group speaking at Dublin’s Web Summit in November.“What’s urgently required is a real cultural shift amongst our politicians and among our civil servants in Whitehall as to the value of privacy: the fact that it’s a public and social good, and it’s a collective good as well,” said Bella Sankey, policy director at civil liberties organisation Liberty.Sankey, speaking alongsidethe former MI5 intelligence officer and whistleblower Annie Machon, criticised Hannigan for hisattack on technology companies, in which he claimed were “in denial” about the misuse of the internet by terrorists, and that “privacy has never been an absolute right”.Related:Vaizey calls for tech firms to 'meet politicians halfway' over encryption“Given everything we’ve learnt in the past 18 months, he chose not to address at all the very serious things that GCHQ stand accused of: blanket surveillance of the UK population with public knowledge and without parliamentary knowledge, [and] receiving warrantless bulk intercepts from the NSA on US and people around the world,” said Machon.“Instead he chose to attack tech companies, to kind of instigate a PR smearing campaign in a threatening and non-constructive way. It’s astounding when GCHQ is in the dock that it has yet to respond on the substance of anything that we’ve learned.”Sankey called for “a new settlement and a new consensus” with full engagement from agencies and politicians. “This whole notion that individual privacy is in tension with the security of everyone is really shot to pieces by what we’ve learned about what’s been going on,” she said.“Liberty has a case in the Investigatory Powers Tribunal, which is this very secretive quasi-court which is the means by which you challenge surveillance measures in the UK. And we’re hoping by that case that we’re going to be able to force a change in the law and for some of this debate to come out in the open,” she said.“But it’s a very long and slow process, and so far the agencies have been resisting and obfuscating every step of the way.”Effective oversight - to include citizensJamie Bartlett, director of the centre for the analysis of social media at thinktank Demos, said most citizens cared more about stopping terrorists than about privacy.“What I think the Snowden revelations have done is certainly created the impression among the public that the spies are scooping up everything: everything we do, all the data, every swipe every click, every bit of browsing history. So they’re omnipotent, they’re omnipresent,” he said.Bartlett said Snowden has prompted a “robust response” from technology companies, and an increase in the availability of easy-to-use encryption services for the public. But terrorists and criminals would also be benefitting from encrypted services, making it harder for agencies to prevent attacks, especially perpetrated by unpredictable individuals with “ a low barrier to entry”.It could mean, he said, the crisis of confidence in the intelligence agencies will be about them failing to stop terrorism, rather than in overstepping the mark on privacy.Bartlett speculated about a return to “old-fashioned human intelligence”: targeted bugs in rooms and infiltration of groups, though these actually present a greater moral hazard. “We need a new settlement about the types of intelligence we’re going to allow - and crucial to that is a far better system of oversight.”Rather than securicrats watching other securicrats, “I want citizens who are security cleared to be part of the Intelligence and Security Committee [in parliament],” he said.Sankey, Bartlett, Machon and Ball on-stage at the Web Summit conference.Photograph: Web SummitProtection for whistleblowersMachoncalled for a “proper channel” for whistleblowers that would listen to their concerns, investigate and punish any wrongdoing.“What we have is a system where if you ask questions or have ethical concerns you are told to shut up and just follow orders. And you become marked as a troublemaker,” she said. “So those who do have ethical concerns, those who are concerned about illegal operations, usually just resign and get on with their lives.”Machon drew on her own experiencegoing on the run with her then-partner David Shaylerin 1996, and noted that intelligence whistleblowers still face the punishment of being “de facto criminalised for speaking to anyone outside that agency”.“That will be the only way to change the culture: that awareness that they can’t get away with this closed groupthink any longer; the awareness that they will be held to account; and the awareness that they cannot lie to government any more to cover up their crimes and mistakes,” she said.“We’re a long way from it. We have the Intelligence and Security Committee in parliament, which is made up of place-men, appointed by the prime minister, and it really has no teeth. It can’t investigate properly. It never has been able to investigate properly. And if this was beefed up into a meaningful oversight body that whistleblowers and others could go to, then I think that would enforce change.”Jamie Bartlett of Demos.Photograph: Web SummitGCHQ ‘frustrated’ by growing use of encryptionBartlett suggested that Hannigan’s decision to go on the offensive reflected wider frustration within GCHQ about technology companies ramping up encryption features.“One might say with some weight that they’ve brought this on themselves, because it’s as a result of the revelations of Edward Snowden that more people are using this type of software,” he said.“It is very difficult indeed for GCHQ and others to keep tabs on what ISIS is doing. They have become far more sophisticated and their use of open source encryption has been increasing dramatically,” he said adding that there should be more of a partnership approach rather than bullying the sector.“They’re going to have to find a more progressive, positive working relationship. And I don’t think the best way of doing it is going on the front foot and slagging them off.”Terrorism is for the police, not the security servicesMachon said there needs to be a debate about the role of the intelligence agencies.“Our intelligence agencies were put in place to protect ‘national security’ - which has never been legally defined under British law - and to protect the economic wellbeing of the state,” she said, citing WWII and the provisional IRA campaigns of the 1970’s to 1990’s as examples of threats to national security.“But going after small, fast-paced terrorist organisations is not national security. These terrorist attacks are horrific, appalling crimes that traumatise people. But they are not a threat to our national security,” she said.“The agencies have mission creep going on. They have taken over work that is not really appropriate to an intelligence agency, but is more appropriate for police work, where you’re supposed to gather evidence and put people on trial in front of a jury of their peers.”Machon said there needed to be a “wholesale rethink” of British intelligence agencies and surveillance, starting with the establishment of an entirely new agency that worked within a regulatory framework.MI5 whistleblower Annie Machon.Photograph: Web SummitThe home secretary signs seven warrants a daySankey said it is inappropriate for UK ministers to be signing surveillance and interception warrants when Canada, New Zealand and Australia all appointed judges to do so. She said Liberty had calculated that the home secretary signs around seven each day.“How, amongst all the other duties of the home secretary, are they supposed to have the time and attention to scrutinise each one, assess whether it’s necessary and proportionate, and ask the necessary questions? They just don’t. It’s a ridiculous system.”Sankey claimed that independent research on NSA bulk interception has shown it hasn’t prevented a single attack. “The efficacy of the policy has not been shown to work,” she said. “If that information isn’t being acted upon, what’s the point of ever harvesting more and more of it? In the hackneyed needle and haystack analogy, you rarely need a bigger haystack.”Bella Sankey of Liberty.Photograph: Web SummitWithout privacy, democracy cannot functionEast Germans were traumatised by the scale and invasiveness of surveillance by the Stasi from 1950 to 1990, Machon said, which explained Germany’s outrage to Snowden’s revelations.“They know that if you do not have privacy, then you do not have the capability to mobilise and push back against a domineering government,” she said. “First they did come for the journalists, the trade unionists and the activists, and then it got worse.Related:How have journalists responded to revelations of mass surveillance?“If you don’t have privacy, you can’t mobilise, you can’t plan, you cannot resist. You cannot have a functioning democracy, and that way lies totalitarianism. And that’s what we’re facing at the moment.”Bartlett said many in the UK felt they were prepared to give up some of their personal privacy to help protect the country from terrorism, but Sankey said it is wrong to view the internet through the prism of terrorism.“That’s what Robert Hannigan was doing, saying ‘this is the network of the terrorists’.“But it’s not. It’s a free and public good. It’s got enormous potential, but that potential can be massively undermined if it becomes a tool of oppression for the most powerful governments in the world like the US and the UK.”•NSA files decoded: what the revelations mean for you
Like all the best cryptography, the Enigma machine is simple to describe, but infuriating to break.Straddling the border between mechanical and electrical, Enigma looked from the outside like an oversize typewriter. Enter the first letter of your message on the keyboard and a letter lights up showing what it has replaced within the encrypted message. At the other end, the process is the same: type in the “ciphertext” and the letters which light are the decoded missive.Inside the box, the system is built around three physical rotors. Each takes in a letter and outputs it as a different one. That letter passes through all three rotors, bounces off a “reflector” at the end, and passes back through all three rotors in the other direction.The board lights up to show the encrypted output, and the first of the three rotors clicks round one position – changing the output even if the second letter input is the same as the first one.When the first rotor has turned through all 26 positions, the second rotor clicks round, and when that’s made it round all the way, the third does the same, leading to more than 17,000 different combinations before the encryption process repeats itself. Adding to the scrambling was a plugboard, sitting between the main rotors and the input and output, which swapped pairs of letters. In the earliest machines, up to six pairs could be swapped in that way; later models pushed it to 10, and added a fourth rotor.Despite the complexity, all the operators needed was information about the starting position, and order, of the three rotors, plus the positions of the plugs in the board. From there, decoding is as simple as typing the cyphertext back into the machine. Thanks to the reflector, decoding was the same as encoding the text, but in reverse.But that reflector also led to the flaw in Enigma, and the basis on which all codebreaking efforts were founded: no letter would ever be encoded as itself. With that knowledge, as well as an educated guess at what might be encrypted in some of the messages (common phrases included “Keine besonderen Ereignisse”, or “nothing to report” and “An die Gruppe”, or “to the group”), it was possible to eliminate thousands of potential rotor positions.Eventually, the team at Bletchley Park built a machine, the Bombe, which could handle that logical analysis. But the final steps were always performed manually: the job of the Bombe was merely to reduce the number of combinations that the cryptanalysts had to examine.Even as the Allied code-breaking team were working on Enigma, the Axis was improving its machines, adding more and different rotors, and minimising operator error. Eventually, the Enigma was superseded by the Lorenz. These required yet more codebreaking in Britain, and more automation to do it – leading to the production of Colossus, the world’s first digital programmable computer.
On Monday 17 July 2000, the graphics card company ATI put out a press release telling people to watch out for its Rage and Radeon cards in three new iMac computers to be unveiled by Steve Jobs, then Apple’s chief executive, in his keynote at Macworld in New York the coming Wednesday.On the Wednesday, Jobs did show off new iMacs - but ATI and its Radeons were absent. Furious at having his thunder stolen, Jobs had removed ATI and Radeon from the keynote, Apple press releases, its booths and the machines themselves. “Steve has been so careful to hide any details - even the smallest of details such as the number of new products to be announced,” a company sourcetold ZDNet at the time. “Something like this can really ruin things.”Though Apple under Tim Cook seems a calmer place, getting things wrong can have similarly disastrous fallout - as the executives at GT Advanced Technologies (GTAT), until last year a little-known maker of solar power systems in New Hampshire, found over the past three months.A $578m deal signed between Apple and GTAT in November 2013 looked as though it would not only bring sapphire screens to iPhones, but also create thousands of jobs in the US, salving a sore point with legislators critical of Apple’s use of foreign assembly for almost all its products, especially the iPhone and iPad.But it ended in October 2014 with GTAT filing for bankruptcy, hundreds of people put out of work, and GTAT’s chief executive and chief operating officer facing questions about insider dealing after they sold millions of dollars worth of GTAT stock before Apple’s iPhone announcement in September.As quickly became clear, the new iPhones don’t have sapphire screens, leading some to ask if the stock sales were triggered by insider knowledge about GTAT’s worsening financial position.Apple wanted sapphire screens - and at scaleGTAT’s downfall also gives a tantalising glimpse into what might have been. Apple wanted sapphire - a super-hard, very transparent crystal which can be made industrially and has to be cut with diamond-coated wire - for camera lenses and the Touch ID sensor on iPhones and iPads, and also for its forthcoming Watch, due for release in spring 2015.But it’s clear it also wanted it for millions of phones - and had the GTAT deal succeeded, Apple would have cornered the market for cheap sapphire, giving itself a notable lead over rivals such as Samsung, which boasts super-AMOLED screens that it makes and uses exclusively. Though Kyocera of Japan and the super-expensive Vertu offer sapphire screens, neither makes them in the gigantic numbers that Apple does for its iPhone.Cornering supplies is often key for companies trying to control a market. In 2005, Apple bought up huge amounts of flash memory for its iPod Nano music player - shutting most rivals out. It demanded an exclusivity arrangement with Toshiba, maker of the 1.8in hard drive in the first iPod.Though it doesn’t actually own any factories, Apple pours gigantic amounts of money -about $12.5bn in the past four quarters- into “plant, property and equipment”, the majority equipping its suppliers to make its products. (It is spending about $3bn - nearly as much as chipmaker Intel, though far less than Samsung Electronics, which has factories making screens, hard drives, and memory chips as well as phones, tablets and computers.Apple can make or break a supplierThe reality is that Apple, as the most valuable company on Earth by market capitalisation, now has the power to make or break a company through its supplier relationships (unlike Jobs’s pique, which had minimal effect on ATI). Being known as a supplier to it has definite value, one company - which is listed in Apple’s top 200 list - told the Guardian: “The value lies in the fact that Apple is recognised as having a high-quality build spec, so a relationship reflects well on that supplier’s products,” an executive said.And even if Apple doesn’t name a company as a supplier, its name will still leak out, as one supplier executive explained to the Guardian: “Tech analysts always ‘tear down’ a new model – components are usually stamped with the suppliers’ names inside. Reviews of new phones will mention key components with regard to performance enhancement.”The executive didn’t want to be named - or to have their company named. He said that isn’t unusual: “None of the top players let their suppliers talk about supplying them – it’s too competitive an industry to allow this.” The Guardian contacted a number of suppliers to Apple; all indicated that they could not talk on the record.In that sense, GTAT was unusual, because its supplier relationship was so public. On paper, the deal looked like a marriage made in heaven. The “multi-year” deal was in effect a loan to operate 2,600 of sapphire furnaces (which Apple would own) in a disused 1.3m square foot factory in Mesa, Arizona and another in Salem, New Hampshire.Then Apple tweaked the deal: GTAT would buy 2,036 furnaces, borrowing the money from Apple; in return it would only supply Apple, and nobody else in the consumer electronics market.But as the forecast volumes and revenues strongly indicate, it also wanted GTAT to begin making sapphire iPhone screens.Apple declined to comment on whether GTAT’s sapphire production would have been used for phone screens.Through the Apple deal, GTAT expected revenues to doubleGTAT, meanwhile, had joined the stock market in 2012, but increasing competition pushed it into loss. In February 2013, seeking new revenue streams, ittook a booth at Mobile World Congress, where it showed off a sapphire screen overlay - put over an iPhone 5 - that withstood whacks from pieces of concrete while a similar glass cover using Corning’s Gorilla Glass was soon scratched and battered. Apple, which had begun using sapphire in 2012’s iPhone 5 camera lens and was now preparing to use it in the 5S’s Touch ID, got in touch.In July 2013, GTAT wasprofiled by Greentechmediaas “selling solar equipment and surviving”, and “one of the more mature solar companies that most people haven’t heard of”.GTAT was sure it had the magic element that was needed to go beyond that: the ability to make enough sapphire to cover millions of smartphone screens. Announcing its (loss-making) third-quarter results in November 2013, GTAT’s business had three branches: polysilicon, making about 75% of revenues; photovoltaic, about 10%; and sapphire crystals, about 15%.But unveiling the Apple deal, GTAT said it expected in 2014 that total revenues would more than double to between $600m and $800m, compared to the $290m-$320m for 2013.Crucially, the sapphire segment would rocket to “approximately 80% of the year’s total revenue”. That would mean between $480m and $640m in sapphire revenues, compared to about $45m in 2013. Expectation that the deal would pay off saw GTAT’s share price double between November 2013 and March 2014.The company would produce up to 200m sapphire phone screens, estimates saidA forecast of a tenfold increase in sapphire sales makes it highly unlikely that GTAT was only going to make screens for the Apple Watch, and camera and Touch ID lenses. Neither company has ever said what the plan was. But the February 2013 demonstration, and ambitious scale of the Mesa plant, indicates that sapphire screens were the aim.Ralph Gutierrez, GTAT’s chief executive,made encouraging noises in February 2014about progress; independent calculationssuggestedit could produce enough sapphire for between 100m and 200m phone screens. (Apple sold 153m iPhones in 2013.)In March, Corning, which had made previous iPhone screens,betrayed its nervousnessin its results call, dismissing sapphire as too expensive, not that much better than glass, and prone to shattering instead of cracking if dropped.However, court documents released in the past two months show that GTAT found Apple’s supplier terms onerous. Targets were ambitious - to make 262kg cylindrical “boules” of pure sapphire, twice as large as it had made before, in four times as many furnaces, operating at full capacity within seven months of the contract’s signing, in a seven-year exclusive deal.Apple crushed GTAT with the terms of the dealBut GTAT faced an uphill battle almost immediately. Apple offered a lower price for the sapphire than GTAT expected, and wouldn’t budge - meaning GTAT was selling its sapphire at a loss. It faced a $650,000 fine if it let another company use one of the $200,000 furnaces; a $640,000 fine if it sold a 262kg boule of sapphire (worth $20,000) to a rival; a $320,000 fine for late boule delivery (or $77 per millimetre of sapphire). Apple, though, could cancel a purchase at any time.Plus a $50m - that’s million - “breach of confidence” liability if GTAT disclosed any of the agreements; but Apple was under no such liability.Daniel Squiller, GTAT’s chief operating officer, said that when GTAT queried the many terms in the contract - and their clear tilt in Apple’s favour - it was told “similar terms are required for other Apple suppliers”.The key problem was yield. GTAT couldn’t get the furnaces to make sapphire in the amount and quality required. If it had, the average price of sapphire would have been low enough that Apple could have used it for phone screens, and GTAT would have been handsomely rewarded.Instead, Squiller complains that Apple wouldn’t let GTAT’s staff choose the tools for working the boules, and that nearly a third of the staff’s time was spent interacting with a delegation from Apple from its supply chain, manufacturing and quality engineering team.Reportssurfaced in Julythat GTAT’s production had hit an obstacle. Doubts grew.Apple refused to pay the next loan installmentBy mid-2014, progress was so bad that Apple refused to pay GTAT the second instalment of the payment. That quickly caused a cashflow crisis for the company as it tried to pay a workforce, fix the furnaces, and achieve ignition on the deal. Squillersaid in a court affidavit on 28 Octoberthat the losses were “largely due to actions not within [GTAT’s] control.”He said GTAT spent $900m on the work, of which Apple’s loan only covered $439m. And it would still have to repay Apple, which in the event of non-payment could foreclose on the furnaces and sell them to recover its loan.Apple, and the city of Mesa, bore responsibility too, argue GTAT’s executives: the first phase of factory construction wasn’t finished until December 2013, leaving just six months to be at full capacity, and there were problems with power supplies to the giant site which caused a crucial three-month delay, and Apple’s refusal to have power backups for the furnaces led to some failures that held it up, Squiller argued.GTAT chose bankruptcy to release itself from Apple dealGutierrez meanwhile sold stock in the first three days each of May, June and July; GTAT has said the timings had been agreed in March, and were not impromptu.In May, Squiller sold 116,000 GTAT shares then worth $1.2m - after Apple had refused to make the final $139m loan payment in April. He later sold $750,000 worth of stock ahead of GTAT’s bankruptcy filing at the start of October.On 9 September Cook showed off the new phones - without sapphire screens. By 10 September GTAT stock was down 25% to $12.78; by Friday 3 October it stood at $11.05. On Monday 6 October, GTAT filed for Chapter 11, and its stock plummeted to $0.80. Trading ceased on 15 October.Squiller says in the deposition that GTAT put itself into Chapter 11 bankruptcy (which protects a company from its creditors) simply to release itself from the Apple deal - and hence save the company.The US manufacturing success story - that never happenedAre such onerous terms unique to Apple, I asked another of its suppliers? “The leading handset manufacturers all have strong pricing power vis-a-vis their suppliers, but that is universal across most industries,” its executive said. “As a supplier, one needs to find a USP [unique selling point] that the customer values enough to pay for it.”And would they take a loan from Apple? Are they offered on better or worse terms than a bank’s? “We have good cash flow and a robust balance sheet so do not have need of loans from any customers,” the executive replies, cautiously.For Apple, meanwhile, the loss of one supplier is not the end of the world. It reverted to Corning for its screens, with Phil Schiller talking of their “ion-strengthened” qualities.The story of GTAT shows us what might have been: iPhones with sapphire screens, and a successful US-based manufacturing story. It also shone a light on the desperate struggle to implement new technology at a global scale - and the penalties for failure.
Ubisoft; PC/PS3/PS4 (version tested)/Xbox 360/Xbox One ; £45; Pegi rating: 18+In Far Cry, you are always a stranger. Every game in the series has placed players into the boots of a protagonist who is a foreigner in the wild and untamed land they find themselves in. The conceit helps ground participants in both the story and the action; when everything is as new to the player as it is to the character they control, they’re essentially on the same learning curve.Far Cry 3 heaped the theme of madness on top of this rubric. There, players controlled a wide-eyed Western tourist on the run from bloodthirsty pirates on a tropical island and his only hope of survival was to become an efficient killing machine. As the protagonist became the alpha male in ascendance, he also became more unhinged, the game hinting that becoming capably violent carries a psychological cost. Far Cry 4 takes this theme and runs with it; if Far Cry 3 saw players tumbling down the rabbit hole, Far Cry 4 sees them smack bang in the middle of Wonderland – and what a vast and hostile place it is.It’s also achingly beautiful. The fictional country of Kyrat in Far Cry 4 is a mish-mash of Nepal, Thailand and Tibet in both its culture and visual representation. Snow capped mountains loom large behind rolling hills of untamed forests. Giant statues stare down into valleys pock-marked with villages, outposts and the ruins of Buddhist temples. Traders carrying their world on their backs wander dirt roads with hiking sticks, and the wilds are filled with fauna – most of it deadly to the casual intruder.The world swarms with activities for players to get stuck into. Beyond radar towers, guarded outposts, story quests, races, hostage missions and the like, Kyrat is filled to bursting with animals to hunt, forts to attack, and plants to collect and craft into drug cocktails. You can even embark on the odd acid trip, courtesy of a pair of Western backpackers.These pursuits continually crash into one another – one minute you’re on your way to unlock a radar tower and the next, a herd of animals – the source of pelts you need to craft an extra weapon slot – run into view and you’re off and running in a new direction. The player’s hardest task, really, is staying focused on the matter at hand – not that Far Cry 4’s developers offer any help in this department. The dynamics in the game’s environment make Kyrat feel like a living, breathing country and one that encourages and rewards exploration.People and moralityKyrat’s landscape is further bolstered by the colourful set of characters the player runs into. Top among them is the game’s villain, Pagan Min, a bleach-blonde, silver-tongued psychopath in a purple suit who also happens to be Kyrat’s nominal dictator. He shares a couple of character attributes with Far Cry 3’s antagonist, Vaas Montenegro, in that he’s charming, ruthless and utterly unpredictable.However, while Vaas knew himself to be an unapologetic killer given over to his primal urges, Min sees himself as a stabilising force in Kyrat’s savage landscape – and given the moral murkiness of some of its freedom fighters, he makes a convincing case. One of the weaknesses of Far Cry 4 is that, shortly after introducing the player to Min, the developers keep him off-screen for the length of a Biblical epic.Instead, the game’s protagonist, Ajay Ghale (a Kyrat ex-pat returned from the West to scatter his mother’s ashes), comes into contact with the leaders of a resistance movement called The Golden Path – Amita and Sabal. Both want to end Pagan Min’s brutal rule in Kyrat but they have vastly different ideas about how to go about it. Sabal is a traditionalist; he values human life above most concerns, but he’s determined to return Kyrat society to its traditional heritage. Amita, for her part, wants nothing to do with Kyrat’s sexist past, but she also sees nothing wrong in taking over Min’s drug-running operations if she can use the proceeds to build hospitals and schools – and presumably the rehab clinics Kyrat will need if she gets her way.The narrative and outcome of the game splinters depending on which leader the player sides with and this does a lot to differentiate Far Cry 4 from its predecessor. Players aren’t locked into a fixed narrative and their actions and decisions have far more of an impact on their environment this time round. It’s to the writers’ credit that Far Cry 4 never offers players a moral conundrum that’s completely clear cut. Like Arjay, they’re learning the terrain and the culture as they proceed, so they may find themselves questioning the wisdom of early decisions later in the game.Clever beastsThe second curveball Far Cry 4 hurls at players is tied up in the game’s AI. While there’s an awful lot in the game that series veterans will find familiar, Far Cry 4’s NPCs and animals are far more vicious and smart this time round. Enemy soldiers will retreat in the face of insurmountable odds. Packs of dogs will circle their prey, looking for an undefended opening. Larger animals attack directly and ferociously while smaller creatures will look to intimidate or wait until the player’s back is turned. The AI functions much in the same way the player does; it takes in the challenge and the landscape ahead of it and then looks for the path of least resistance.As for co-op and multiplayer, the campaign is so strong that they seem almost like surplus requirements. However, the former is certainly worth investigating for a little variety and playing with a friend makes taking down outposts and forts a lot easier. The PVP multiplayer has a couple of interesting match types, but it’s doubtful that it’ll rob the Call of Duty and Halos of this world of any significant lobby numbers.There are some hangovers from previous iterations. Far Cry 4 occasionally boxes players into a style of play they may not appreciate in a couple of story quests – stealth missions, for example, in which being spotted is an instant fail – and a lot of the game’s best equipment is off-limits for far too long.But Far Cry 4 truly shines in the almost bacchanalian sense of freedom it bestows on the player as they traverse through its environment. In Kyrat you have the ability to go anywhere and do pretty much anything – much as Pagan Min would advocate. Here, the only pact you need keep is that with your conscience. God help you.
A hacker who was surreptitiously injecting malicious code in downloads in to part of the Tor network has been linked to a series of government-sponsored cyber attacks.Tor, also known as the Onion Router, allows internet users to access sites and services anonymously by routing encrypted traffic through a number of layers, known as relays, before a final jump to an exit node that leads to the open internet.The attacker was abusing their control over one of those exit nodes in Russia to inject malware into downloads, Josh Pitts, a researcher at Leviathan Security,discovered in late October.Finnish security firm F-Secureinvestigated the malware, calling it OnionDuke owing to its links to another piece of suite of hacker tools named MiniDuke, which is thought to have the backing of the Russian government as it had previously targeted Nato and European governments.Once the OnionDuke malware was installed on a victim’s machine via a “wrapper” that included the original file and the malicious code, it would attempt to speak with its creators via a number of hacked websites.Further malware would then be installed on the target machine, either via the same backdoor installed via Tor or other unknown means. One of the malware components connected to pre-registered domains to receive additional commands.A number of those domains were the same as those used by the MiniDuke hackers, who surprised the security community earlier this year by simultaneouslystealing data from drug dealers and government entities.OnionDuke has been trying to pilfer login credentials amongst other system information from a range of targets, including European governments, F-Secure added in a blog post.“We have also uncovered strong evidence suggesting that OnionDuke has been used in targeted attacks against European government agencies, although we have so far been unable to identify the infection vector(s),” wrote Artturi Lehtiö, a trainee at F-Secure.Mikko Hypponnen, chief research officer at F-Secure, told the Guardian there were indications the attacks were linked to governments, but as with most suspected nation state incidents there was no proof.“MiniDuke is believed to be linked to Russian governmental attack, although nobody has been able to prove this for a fact … we have no further information about linking this to Russian (or any other) government.”The OnionDuke operators have been infecting files over Tor since at least since the end of October 2013, F-Secure said, and has been tampering with torrent downloads containing pirated software since February 2014.Tor users who have updated to the latest version should be protected from the malicious Russian exit node as it has been blacklisted, but they might want to be wary of the 1,000 other exit nodes in the Tor network, some of which arebelieved to be under government control.“The problem with Tor is that you have no idea who is maintaining the exit node you are using and what their motives are,” Lehtiö added.Using a Virtual Private Network (VPN) will encrypt people’s traffic on the open web and hide users from such attackers.
Ever felt that you were a bit too obsessed with Twitter? The good news is, it’s not you: it’s your brain. A new study conducted for the social network examined the mental activity of 114 volunteers while they tweeted on phones, tablets and laptops, using a technique called steady-state topography.Carried out by market research firm Neuro Insight, the study compared users’ neural activity when they were using Twitter to a baseline measured during normal online activity.It found markedly higher responses than the norm in the three areas it looked, which correspond to emotional arousal, feelings of personal relevance, and memory.Emotional arousal is linked to sites in the back right half of the brain, and the study uses activity at the right parieto-temporal site to assess the intensity of emotions elicited by the service. For people actively using the platform, sending tweets or searching for other, those responses were 75% higher than the online norm; but even for those just passively reading the service, the response was 64% more intense.“The way that messages are delivered drives a strong emotional response,” says Heather Armstrong, Neuro Insight’s chief executive. “It’s very short and sharp, it’s very immediate, and it’s appearing in your own context.”The context also affects the feeling of personal relevance, something which is 51% above the baseline for typical online use. In this case, that is defined as activity in one part of the brain known as a Brodmann area, specifically the Brodmann area associated with personal relevance – things we relate strongly too.Armstrong says that Twitter scores quite so highly because “People are seeing stuff in a context which is immensely personally relevant. It’s their own timeline, that they’ve constructed and which represents what they’re interested in. It’s a hugely different impact, because context affects massively the way we respond.”Both of those peaks combine to push Twitter above the norm in one of the areas of the brain responsible for memory encoding.That doesn’t necessarily mean that Twitter usage will be stored away in memory, but that is more likely to be prepared by the brain, to keep in long-term memory if a reason to do so arises. “Active Twitter use drives 56% greater memory encoding than the average website,” the research says.Both personal relevance and emotional intensity contribute to that memory storage improvement, says Armstrong “Physical interaction itself is very important. As you’re interacting with it, it has a much stronger impact than just reading things on a screen.”Even interacting with Twitter on a computer is significantly more likely to involve physical interaction than watching TV or passively surfing the web, and that could be enough to push it over the edge.But Niall Moore, a neuroscientist at UCL, casts doubt on how strongly conclusions can be drawn from the report, pointing out that “this isn’t a scientific study. This has not been peer-reviewed and their methods are not clearly explained … I’m pretty skeptical of the whole thing, and I think they are making really quite unrealistic claims.”Of course, whether the findings are a positive or negative for Twitter is a different question. Advertisers particularly are likely to find the concept that Twitter usage drives long-term memory storage appealing, and it helps justify the company’s practice in its advertising fees of charging per engagement: if active twitter use is provably better than passive at being encoded as a memory, it’s worth splashing out for.And other users may find their own reasons to make the most of Twitter’s effect on the brain. Already, a number of teachers use the service to communicate with their classes, and they now have research to back up their efforts.“One of the things that we’re doing is dissecting the information and figuring out how we can make it a useful format for different people who use Twitter,” says a Twitter spokeswoman. “Our news partnerships manager might look at it and focus on the sorts of lessons for news organisations to think about when they’re tweeting.“Across our business there will be different ways that we interpret that data, and think about how we can use it to help people understand how to be good at Twitter.”But the flip side is that if you feel Twitter is a bit too engaging, you might just be right. “It’s not because it’s Twitter, it’s because you’ve created a little world for yourself,” says Armstrong. “It’s a lot more relevant, and though it doesn’t replace real life, it’s a more effective way of communicating.”•Jennifer Lawrence: ‘I will never get Twitter. The internet has scorned me’
Konami; PC/PS3/PS4 (version tested)/Xbox 360/Xbox One; £45; Pegi rating: 3+Pro Evolution Soccer is back. Properly back. After a string of failed attempts to recapture the PS2 glory days, Konami has finally found a winning formula. It’s taken over a decade to get back in contention with EA’s Fifa behemoth, but PES 2015 ensures that, at least on quality if not on sales, it’s a two-horse race again this season. And all it took was to get back to basics.Having skipped a PS4 and Xbox One release last year, developer PES Productions used the time wisely and focused on the one thing that matters most: the on-field action. Konami’s Fox engine (also used in Metal Gear Solid 4) realises its full potential on current-gen machines and delivers the type of slick football that fans of the real sport salivate over on a weekly basis. It’s not about unrealistic pirouettes and rainbow flicks – they’re left on the bench. It’s about fluidity and intuition.This means that in PES 2015, you don’t have to execute trick stick swirls and slashes to beat a man – instead, you go around the opposition by pushing your player in a direction that catches the tackler off-balance. The close control means you can feel confident about keeping the ball even with a defender breathing down your neck. It feels natural and authentic.Of course, there are still special moves in here, but only the likes of Ronaldo, Neymar and co. can wield such showpiece weapons. The new PES ID system ensures that players only do what they would in real life. Don’t expect to see Per Mertersacker dancing his way upfield too often.The Fox engine greatly improves the effectiveness of your AI team-mates too. Instead of standing still waiting for the triangular hat of responsibility to appear above their head, players will dart into space of their own accord. As Manchester United’s Ander Herrera receives the ball from Angel Di Maria in the middle of the park, the Argentinian immediately sprints into the space behind a defender and looks to receive the ball again. You can call for a 1-2 pass, but you don’t need to do it all the time.Speaking of passing, the variety here is excellent. Most football games have specific “zones” where a long ball or cross will work from, but PES 2015 allows you to swing in speculative balls from all over the pitch. We saw a great example from Chelsea’s Cesc Fabregas who played a ball into the stride of Diego Costa from near the touchline at the halfway point. With the swipe of a right boot the ball bent exquisitely around the back four and set Costa up for a lovely side foot finish. It’s the simplest things that give the most joy in PES, because nothing is as satisfying as a plan coming together.The balance between attack and defence is also great. Fleet-footed players like Arjen Robben will torment the back line, but thanks to a robust defensive game, you can also destroy incoming forwards in the tackle.The slide ruleOne of the biggest qualms leveled at FIFA 15 is the lazy foot-in animations and slide tackles that leave you stranded regardless of how perfectly you think you’ve lined up an interception. PES 2015 plays an almost perfect defensive game where you can stick a foot out to dispossess an opponent, call in an AI buddy to help pressure them or slide in to win the ball and flip the winger into the air like a pancake. Even goalkeepers instill an air of confidence as they react to situations decisively, punching away crosses or making themselves big for one-on-ones. It all feels organic and compliments the flow of the football.There are plenty of subtle animations on show in PES 2015. Deft one-touch passes to team-mates, chest control from big lads like Zlatan Ibrahimovic who can swivel around markers in one motion, and through-balls that unlock defences from numerous directions – they are all a joy. There are tons more, but these gameplay tweaks will keep fans coming back for more like Man United’s Anderson at a free buffet.Where PES 2015 excels most over Fifa 15 is in its ability to create drama. EA’s series has a nasty habit of forcing situations in games, like those 45th and 90th minute goals it’s so fond of. But the organic flow here means that knockout cup matches or vital league matches carry their own magic and heartbreak. One moment of brilliance or madness can often be the fine line between glory and defeat. As a result, every game feels unique. It’s been a long time since a football game made us actually cheer at a last gasp winner.Konami also debuts its very own Ultimate Team mode in the shape of myClub. It’s a slightly clunkier version that lacks EA’s slick razzamatazz, but it works in an almost identical way. You gather players from across the globe via special pack openings. White, bronze, silver and gold rank players are available – the black ball variants are rare and contain the likes of Didier Drogba and Andres Iniesta. It’s a great addition and has the potential to overthrow Master League as PES’s “go to” mode.Image rights – and wrongsPES 2015 does have some rather basic issues. There are moments when the frame rate struggles to keep up with the action. This happens more during online matches, but usually that’s down to you or your opponent’s connection. It’s not game-breaking, but it’s there and can be jarring (htough hopefully fixable with a patch).Elsewhere, commentary duo Jon Champion and Jim Beglin’s script is so slight it could have been written on a beer mat. It becomes repetitive almost instantly. And some of the hairstyles are laughably poor, especially the rear of poor old Luke Shaw’s head, which looks like an owl’s backside.Although the menus are a lot slicker than before, again borrowing from FIFA’s slide interface, it’s still a bit of a mess. Where EA clearly marks where everything is, PES 2015 forces you to explore, especially in myClub where our Didier Drogba signing required a needless search and numerous button presses just to get him in the starting line-up.Chiefly, the continued absence of Premier League licenses – apart from Manchester United – is a disappointment. EA has done well to monopolise the official license of the Premier League’s players, kits and more. So PES 2015 is left with Man Blue vs. Merseyside Red at the Konami Stadium. Oh, and despite having Bayern Munich’s Mario Gotze on the front cover, the Bundesliga hasn’t even made it in.PES will no doubt use the community loophole, which always provides the authentic kits, badges and more via a data pack download within days of release, so all is not lost. But while this may seem like nitpicking, these things matter to that mass market that Konami craves.PES 2015 does boast a glut of other clubs from across the globe, mind. Second division sides in Spain and Italy, for example, and there’s the debut of a fully licenced Argentinian league too – not to mention the rights to the Champions League, Europa League and the Copa Libertadores competitions.As a complete package, Fifa 15 still rules the roost. But where it matters – on the pitch – PES 2015 is far superior. The variety of goals, dribbles, tackles and passing moves means you won’t play the same game twice. It captures the thrills and spills of football brilliantly and after almost a decade of trying to play catch-up, Konami has finally put a team together to challenge the Fifa juggernaut. It’s time to fall in love with the beautiful game again. Pro Evolution Soccer is really, honestly, truly back.
Are you sitting comfortably? That’s the question the newLumo Liftis asking, and hoping to encourage an answer in the affirmative by training its users to stop slouching and sit up straight.The posture-tracking wearable from Lumo Bodytech is a small, pebble-shaped device worn discretely under clothing and near to the collar bone.According to the company, having better posture results in job promotion, happiness, meeting a dream partner and possibly gaining everything one has ever wanted in life. But does it really live up to that tremendous billing?Calibrate and coachThe magnet clips to the outside of a close-fitting shirt to hold the Lift in place.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Lift has two main functions: the “align” mode, which keeps a record of frequent posture throughout the day and rates it; and “coaching sessions”, which track a wearer’s position and reminds them in the form of vibrations when slouch.It also includes a pedometer, measuring the distance in steps and miles a user walks, along with calories burned and syncs with an iPhone app via Bluetooth to analyse the data. An Android app is coming in 2015 along with a web app.The Lift needs calibrating each time it’s worn with a double press of the button when in the preferred position, buzzing three times to confirm. The device recognises this position and uses it to measure how often one slips out of it.Tracking how often the wearer slips from the correct position, hour by hour, the Lift rates posture as “remarkable” or “slouchy” accordingly. The Lift really comes into its own with its coaching function, which attempts to trainpeople into the habit of sitting up straight.Coaching sessions work well and are triggered either by pressing and holding the Lift for three seconds, after the device is aligned, or by through the iPhone app.The sessions last between five minutes and four hours, with the Lift buzzing if its user slouches or leans forward. The tracker will either buzzes continuously until the wearer reverts to a good position, or can just buzz once on the first detection of slouching.It will only vibrate when the user genuinely slouches and gets out of position. It isn’t irritating. Think of it as a benevolent army officer reminding a soldier they are ruining the parade line-up.Back pain reliefScreenshots of the Lumo Lift app for iOS 8.Photograph: The GuardianThe Lift was really useful in the office at my desk resulting in improved posture and a noticeable relief from back pain. It was interesting to see how often I hunkered over a screen or slumped over a keyboard when rushing lunch, and the coaching sessions were brilliant at helping me stop.Weirdly the app’s background changes colours and flashes up cheesy motivational messages such as “this is what we like to call #winning!” or “you’re a rockstar!” when mid-session.An example of the cringeworthy motivational messages.Photograph: The GuardianThe pedometer is basic and on data. I wouldn’t buy the Lift if I was after a solid fitness tracker – that’s obviously not its primary purpose. It also doesn’t track sleep monitor heart rate, but it does collect distance walked, calories burnt and rates how active a person has been.SpecificationsDimensions:4.4 x 2.5 x 1.3 cmWeight:14gBattery life:4 to 5 daysCharge time:2 hoursHandsome and minimalistThe Lift is handsomely designed – small, light and minimalist. It can be worn two ways.First with the main body is against the skin under a shirt and the square magnet clipped to the outside of a garment keeping the Lift in place. It doesn’t work well with loose clothing, but all that’s visible is the little square magnet and a slight bulge where it sits.The magnet is troublesome when wearing necklaces and ends up dragging the device towards the necklace and out of position.The Lift also comes with a clip that is supposed to allow the device to be attached to a bra strap, but it’s very fiddly and doesn’t work very well.The Lift slips into a magnetic charging dock powered by a standard USB connector.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe Lumo Lift costs £80 in black, white and grey with black and silver magnets. Extra magnets in a variety of colours to suit different outfits can be purchased separately.VerdictLumo Lift delivers. Correct posture has become a popular issue in our office-based world – the NHS has even written anadvice guideon it. For £80, the Lift is great at encouraging its wearer to take better care of their backIf slouching is something literally bringing you down, the Lift is definitely worth considering. As an all round health and fitness device, give the Lift a miss.Pros:attractive, good habit forming, simple to use, 4-day batteryCons:patronising motivational messages, align mode is pointless, poor fitness tracking
Electronic Arts; PC (version tested)/PS3/PS4/Xbox 360/Xbox One; £45; Pegi rating: 18+A few hours into Inquisition, my party staggers out of a bandit camp on the Storm Coast to the sight of a giant hurling a boulder at a charging dragon. “Can we watch?” asks Sera, my elven archer accomplice, with a giggle. We sure can.For several minutes the behemoths hammer at one another, hemmed in by ancient dwarven ruins and columns evoking the Giant’s Causeway. Lightning strikes sporadically, the accompanying thunder barely masking the roar of the wounded dragon, which eventually thinks better of the battle and retreats, leaving the battered giant standing dazed upon the beach.My level-five party are potion-less and barely breathing, but this is an unmissable opportunity to claim a prize that would usually be beyond us. Our chief weapons are surprise, fear and a Ferelden axe, which is fatally delivered to the Giant’s skull by eye-patch wearing Qunari warrior Iron Bull. “Today is a good day, a very good day,” he beams.This moment represents all that is great about Bioware’s latest fantasy adventure offering: player-driven epic encounters across vast settings, backed up with memorable characters, all rendered in a stunning new engine.Inquisition marries the spirit and scope of Origins with the flashier approach of its sequel. The first area you venture into after the linear opening is bigger than the whole of the first game – and it’s crammed with things to do. Side-quests are usually presented and dispatched with minimal fuss or moral dilemma, but completing them earns you power which can be used to access new areas or standalone missions. You select these from the war table at your fortress, which is customisable right down to the choice of drapes, and the whole of Orlais and Ferelden is your playground.Crucially, the compromised combat of Dragon Age II is jettisoned along with its recycled environments. You can choose to play third-person – switching between characters at whim – and at lower difficulties you can largely let the AI handle your accomplices. For tougher fights, however, pausing the game and rolling the camera back becomes a necessity. Experimenting with different strategies is a central part of the game, but I never tired of having my rogue stealth around the battlefield, dropping mines next to foes who were promptly taunted to step onto them by my warrior. Also: shield-bashing enemies off ledges.There are issues. Yet again your mage’s attacks can’t hurt your side, which undermines the treatment of magic in Dragon Age lore as something to be respected and feared. More practically, the camera frequently misbehaves, which can leave you lunging towards thin air; I also longed to be able to zoom out further for better tactical oversight. There’s a pleasing splattering of blood to the melee, but when battles become larger, it can be tricky to follow the action.Place and plotYou’ll want a better view too because the locations are so darn pretty. The settings sound generic – forest, desert, temple ruins – but Bioware is good at giving tropes new twists and packing locales with incidental detail. So when you ride along a desert path and stumble upon a green oasis, you should dismount and study the objects scattered around. Read the note by the lute and examine the nug teddy; you’ll piece together a story.Inquisition’s narrative works best when it thinks small like this. The opening dumps an avalanche of lore on you (newcomers will be baffled) and the overarching threat of an expanding rift hole in the sky and an ironically one-dimensional villain never truly cohere into something memorable.Walking the tightrope of how people perceive you remains enthralling, however, particularly given the mage vs. templar war and the fact people think you’re the Herald of Andraste whether you want them to or not. Cue Life of Brian-style hilarity imprinted onto Dragon Age’s racial and class politics. You can choose to be human, dwarf, Qunari or elf, but it’s only the latter that will see you given a broom by mistake the first time you visit the blacksmith.There’s no visible morality meter in the game and you intuit your standing by how your followers react to your choices. The quality of writing and voice acting makes this a joy, but it’s the way characters can say as much with the curl of a lip as they could with ten lines of dialogue that truly impresses.Cutscenes are sharp but intermittent, wedged amongst spiralling dialogue trees that occur between static characters. This isn’t helped by bugs: occasionally I couldn’t skip lines with the space bar, instead my character jumped on the spot like an impatient child. The cast are well worth chatting to, nevertheless, including familiar faces like Varric. My favourite is Tevinter mage Dorian, full of knowing winks. “It’s the same old tune,” he remarks wearily about your enemy. “Let’s play with magic we don’t understand, it will make us incredibly powerful”.The set-piece missions that further the plot are fantastically varied. They range from leading a siege that rivals Helm’s Deep to playing “the game” of court rivalry at a ball in the Orlaisian capital Val Royeaux, a dangerous mix of Downton Abbey and The Wire. You must step away from the festivities to investigate sinister manoeuvres, but stray too long and your absence will be noticed and your reputation diminished.These grand escapades sit alongside fetch quests for 10 pieces of ram meat, of course, but if you think such things beneath you then ignore them. The war table is always flush with intriguing missions for you or your agents. It can feel overwhelming at times but this isn’t XCOM and failure is literally not an option. Quests come with simple suggestions of what level your character should be, and I suffered no critical blowback from any of the daft decisions I made in the course of the adventure.Inquisition gets under your skull like red lyrium. Objectively, you know your followers singing the theme music to raise morale after a great loss is cheesy, but you still find yourself humming it on the way to work. Then you spend all day at work thinking if you can find 20 elfroots you can improve your potions sufficiently to beat one of the 10 dragons. That truly will be a good day in what is a truly monumental game.

Apple’s new Health app – and the HealthKit platform that lets other companies’ health and activity-tracking apps tie into it – was one of the big new features in its iOS 8 software, which launched a couple of months ago.Health is capable of collecting, storing and analysing a range of personal data, but there are clear privacy implications here – for Apple and any company involved in this space, from Google and Microsoft to the growing number of smaller fitness-focused app and device makers.According to Reuters, the US Federal Trade Commission is alive to the issues. It reports that the FTC is “seeking assurances from Apple that it will prevent sensitive health data collected by its upcoming smartwatch and other mobile devices from being used without owners’ consent”.The report also claims that Apple is stressing during the conversations that it will not be selling health data to third parties like advertisers, with spokesperson Trudy Muller telling Reuters that “we designed HealthKit with privacy in mind”.This is less an Apple issue than it is a wider regulatory challenge, when health data is heavily protected if it’s gathered in a medical context, but much more of a grey area when it’s gathered by an app and/or device.So, questions: if you’re using health-tracking apps and gadgets, are you thinking about the privacy of your data? Have you dug into the providers’ privacy policies and found anything reassuring or worrying?And if you don’t use these apps and devices, is privacy one of the reasons? What are your concerns, and how would you like to see technology firms and regulators alike approaching the issue? The comments section is open for your thoughts.Some more stories ripe for discussion today:Hachette and Amazon havesettled their long-running dispute, agreeing that the book publisher will have “full responsibility” for setting its ebook prices on Amazon’s Kindle Store. Watch now for the ripples as other publishers react.Samsung is apparentlyspending “tens of millions” developing a new shortform video servicecodenamed Volt, which would try to take on YouTube with exclusive content and, possibly, music. Although YouTube has plenty of both, so it would be a tough challenge.This is a really interesting use of Oculus Rift and virtual reality: Canadian environmental group Dogwood Initiative is using the technology toshow what an oil tanker spill near Vancouver might look like, and how it would affect the city.“The men are coming to Pinterest”reports TechCrunch. Apparently men now account for a third of all new signups to the site, whose gender split has traditionally been 70-30 or 80-20 in favour of women. And in countries like India, Japan and South Korea, the split is now 50-50.Finally, Tubefilter and OpenSlate have publishedtheir latest chart of the top 100 games channels on YouTube. It’s another reminder of just how popular games are on the service, with 4.6bn views for the top 100 alone. No surprises for guessing who’s top: PewDiePie.What else? The comments section is open for your thoughts on the stories above, and your suggestions of other links worth reading.
It's Friday.
Every two years or so, I’m put to the test. Unbidden memories start to surface, of talent trees, epic mounts, and raiding. Hotkey combinations still feel close to my fingertips, and even now I can tell you why I prefer a holy warrior to a shadow priest.My name’s Alex, and I’m a World of Warcraft addict, six years clean. And now is the hardest time of the year.Once the biggest massively multiplayer online game in the world, before the definition became so blurred as to render it moot, WoW is still a huge deal. Almost 7.5 million people subscribe to the game, paying up to £9 a month for the privilege, on top of one-off fees for the base game and the regular expansion packs.As WoW lumbers into its 10th year, that number has been declining for some time, in the face of competition from free-to-play games and fresh-faced rivals. But the release on Wednesday of Warlords of Draenor, the fifth expansion pack in the series, has boosted the number, with 600,000 players jumping on board in preparation of the new pack.The vast majority of them won’t be new players trying out a decade-old game which is, by any definition, past its prime; they will be former players relapsing, tempted by the promise of new worlds, new dungeons, and new levels.Because once WoW gets its hooks into you, it never quite lets go. Fundamental to the game is a sort of weaponised behavioural psychology, which uses insights gained from BF Skinner’s famous experiments on the mechanisms of reward cycles to create compulsive attitudes in players.Nearly every reward in the game is randomised in some way, from the quest items that drop as you commit genocide on harmless murlocs to please townspeople to the legendary weapons that you get from killing the game’s final bosses as part of a 40-person raid. And doling out rewards on a seemingly random basis is key to keeping people engaged.Give too many things away, and the game becomes easy, predictable and boring, but add some unpredictability and the player keeps coming back for more. To a certain extent, that’s just game design in practice: but Warcraft ratchets it up to terrifying levels. In its own way, every single thing is built around encouraging you to continue playing, from the social mechanics at work in the large scale community raids to the timings of item drops in single player quests, forcing you back to a town on a regular basis to empty your bags.It’s possible to play the game despite the conditioning at its heart, and treat it as the interesting diversion which needn’t consumer a life. Indeed, one friend who has been playing since 2007 (and so spending around £750 on the game in the last seven years) regularly goes weeks without playing, but keeps his subscription running just in case.Anthropologist Jeff Snodgrasssuggeststhere’s a correlation between real-life success and ability to play WoW in ways that are healthy. Players with successful lives can sit down to WoW “in much the same way that they might play a quick pickup game of basketball or lose themselves in a movie for a few hours, therapeutically separating themselves temporarily from real-life responsibilities.”When I played the game, I straddled the line. On the one hand, I never (knowingly) failed real obligations to spend more time in Azeroth; but on the other, I was acutely aware that even when I wasn’t playing, I would be thinking about my place in the latest reward cycle, wondering if I’d get enough items to get enough gold to get a new mount before my character’s level ticked up and I had to spend it all on new spells.In the end, it was a change in circumstances that helped me bail on the game. Returning to university and short of cash, I put the subscription on hold, telling myself I’d pick up again in the next holiday. The months of forced cold turkey let me look back at how much time I’d spent playing, and question whether I really enjoyed it at all; and so I decided to delete the character, kicking myself off for good, before I changed my mind.Of course, that only helped so much. These days, my poison of choice is Destiny, Bungie’s Halo follow-up, a massively multiplayer online game which has been criticised for its abusive reliance on risk-reward cycles and random number generators. And in the course of writing this article, I seem to have signed up for a free trial of Mists of Pandaria, the last expansion pack released for WoW. I won’t play it – I hope – but I’m still mulling over what new character I would make if I did.I wonder if my old guild is still together? I must have their address somewhere here…
Standard &amp; Poor’s Ratings has assigned Twitter a junk-grade rating while also describing it as having strong growth prospects.The ratings agency gave the San Francisco-based social networking company a BB- corporate credit rating, which places it firmly in the middle of junk-grade territory. The outlook is described as stable.Shares of Twitter fell 5.7% to $40.12 in late afternoon trading on Thursday. The stock has lost more than a third of its value in the year to date.S&amp;P predicted Twitter would see healthy growth in active users and revenue, along with minimal debt leverage. But its very heavy investment in growth meant it might not have positive cash flow for discretionary use until 2016.Jim Prosser, a spokesman for Twitter, pointed to S&amp;P’s own words as comment: “Twitter will continue to experience very strong growth and not encounter a significant increase in competitive pressure.”The rating is unsolicited, meaning that S&amp;P is basing it solely on publicly available information and that it may not necessarily involve the participation of Twitter.The action comes a day after Twitter’s first-ever analyst day where it discussed its vision, strategy, finances and other matters.This report uses material from the Associated Press
Internet companies have agreed to do more to tackle extremist material online following negotiations led by Downing Street.The UK’s major Internet service providers – BT, Virgin, Sky and Talk Talk – have this week committed to host a public reporting button for terrorist material online, similar to the reporting button which allows the public to report child sexual exploitation.They have also agreed to ensure that terrorist and extremist material is captured by their filters to prevent children and young people coming across radicalising material.The UK is the only country in the world with a Counter Terrorism Internet Referral Unit (CITRU) - a 24/7 law enforcement unit, based in the Met, dedicated to identifying and taking down extreme graphic material as well as material that glorifies, incites and radicalises.In the last four years the CTIRU has instigated the removal of over 55,000 pieces of on line content, including 34,000 pieces since December 2013.In an average week the unit is removing over 1,000 pieces of content that breaches the Terrorism Act 2006. Approximately 800 of these are Syria/Iraq related and posted on multiple platforms.David Cameronhighlighted the pressing challenge of getting extremist material taken down from the internet in a speech to the Australian parliament in Canberra earlier today.Speaking to an audience that included Australian prime minister Tony Abbott, Cameron said that he was pushing UK companies to do more “including strengthening filters, improving reporting mechanisms and being more proactive” in taking down harmful material.He warned that the internet must not become an ungoverned space. “We are making progress but there is further to go. This is their social responsibility. And we expect them to live up to it,” the prime minister added.In addition, Number 10 said that Facebook, Google, Yahoo and Twitter will support smaller industry players to raise their standards and improve their capacity to deal with this material.The developments follows a meeting between internet companies and Jo Johnson, the cabinet office minister, in the past fortnight.A Downing Street spokeswoman said “we will keep pressing internet companies to be more proactive given the scale of the threats and the persistent propaganda from the terrorist groups”.The prime minister was speaking after Robert Hannigan, the new head of GCHQ, recently described some of the technology companies as the new command and control centres of terrorism. He said they had become in the post Snowden era positively obstructive in failing to comply with government requests to take material down.The UK prime minister said in Canberra that action was necessary because: “In both our countries we have seen some of our young people radicalised, going off to fight in Iraq and Syria, and even appalling plots to murder innocent people. There is no opt-out from dealing with this. We have to confront this threat at its source.”
Reddit, the popular online news and community message site, has lost its chief executive, seemingly after a row over new office space.Yishan Wong resigned after two and a half years of service, the company announced on Thursday. He will be replaced by Ellen Pao, Reddit’s business and partnerships strategist, on an interim basis. Alexis Ohanian, Reddit’s co-founder alongside Steve Huffman, will return to the company full time as its executive chairman.In a blogpost,Ohanianthanked Wong for his service. “We are grateful for his contributions over the last few years, including growing Reddit from 35M to 174M, and we have a team in place to ensure that reddit’s best years are still ahead of it,” he wrote.Ohanian wrote: “Reddit is at an amazing inflection point and I’m thrilled to return to help it achieve all that it can. We’ve got a lot of work to do: mobile, user experience, and community tools are on the top of our list, but as always,we can’t do it without you.”Sam Altman, one of Reddit’s advisers, said Wong left after “a disagreement with the board about a new office (location and amount of money to spend on a lease). To be clear, though, we didn’t ask or suggest that he resign – he decided to when we didn’t approve the new office plan.”At the beginning of October Wong tweeted: “Yes, we are relocating ppl back to SF w/generous relo package &amp; COL [cost of living] adjustment, +3mos severance for anyone who can’t make the move.”Wong also had a recent public spat with a former employee on the site in which he laid out the terms of hisformer employee’s terminationin embarrassing detail, stating the employee had been fired for “incompetence” and “inappropriate and irrelevant comments” while interviewing candidates among other things.“There is a long history of founders returning to companies and doing great things,” wrote Altman in a blogpost. “Founders are able to set the vision for their companies with an authority no one else can.”The disagreement came after Redditraised $50min funding from top Silicon Valley investor Marc Andreessen of Andreessen Horowitz and investors including actor Jared Leto and hip-hop star Snoop Dogg.Under Wong Reddit has emerged as one of the most powerful voices on the internet, with nearly 174 million monthly active visitors. The sites Ask Me Anything (AMA) chats have attracted top celebrities and even Barack Obama.
Facebook has once again moved to simplify its description of how it uses the data generated by its 1.3 billion users.The social network issued an update of its privacy policy on Thursday including a new interactive tutorial called “Privacy Basics” which walks people through how they can change their settings.Having faced criticism in the past for its complicated settings and use of people’s data, the goal, Facebook said, was to get more people to understand the terms they agree to in order to use the service.The update comes as Facebook becomes an increasingly mobile service, adding location and movement as new sets of data being collected by the company. Facebook is also testing a “Buy” button so people can make purchases inside the app, a change that would lead to the company collecting more financial information from its users should it be rolled out further.“If you use our services for purchases or financial transactions (like when you buy something on Facebook, make a purchase in a game, or make a donation), we collect information about the purchase or transaction. This includes your payment information, such as your credit or debit card number and other card information, and other account and authentication information, as well as billing, shipping and contact details,” the new policy states.On location information the policy states: “We’re working on ways to show you the most relevant information based on where you are and what your friends are up to. For example, in the future, if you decide to share where you are, you might see menus from restaurants nearby or updates from friends in the area.”“Our goal is to make the information about Facebook as clear as possible,” Erin Egan, Facebook’s chief privacy officer, said in ablogpost.“Our hope is that it won’t take long for people to read through this and really get it,” she said.The new policy will be open to comment for a week and a final version will take effect 30 days later.The new policy is 70% shorter than the previous version, colour-coded and more heavily illustrated. Company policy is broken down into sections including “How do we use this information?” and “How can I manage or delete information about me?”The company has also updated how users can control the types of ads they see on Facebook. Previously, users who opted out of certain ads on their laptops might have seen those ads popping up on their mobiles. The company will now apply ad preferences to any device associated with that account. Users will also be able to give Facebook more information about ads they don’t – or do – want to see.Facebook has in the past faced intense criticism of it privacy policy, which critics charged was opaque and made unwieldy to use.“We hope these updates improve your experience,” said Egan. “Protecting people’s information and providing meaningful privacy controls are at the core of everything we do, and we believe today’s announcement is an important step. We look forward to hearing people’s feedback and continuing to build the trust people have in Facebook.”
There are plenty of ways to say thanks to a Facebook friend. A quick comment on their profile, a private message, or a ‘thanks for those three Candy Crush lives you sent me an hour ago but can I have three more now?’ request, for example.Until now, there hasn’t been an easy way to thank them by creating and sharing an animated slideshow of your shared Facebook history, with perky background music. But fear not: the social network has your back with its newSay Thanksfeature.“Your friends are at the core of your Facebook experience, and we are always looking for new ways to help you celebrate those friendships,”explained the company in a blog post, which pitched the new feature as “personalised video cards”.“Share a Say Thanks video with a close friend, your significant other, a relative, a coworker, an old friend – or anyone else in your life who you’d like to celebrate. There is no limit to how many personalized videos you can create and share.”Fun times ahead for anyone with the kind of friends for whom there is no limit to how many BuzzFeed quizzes, Buddhist mantras and/or virals from far-right activist group Britain First they can share.Say Thanks is at least easy to use: you choose a friend and a theme: Old Friends or Friends – sorry, no Schadenfreude-Supplying Former School Bully Who’s Fallen On Hard Times or Racist Colleague yet – as well as a combination of seven photos or posts, with an emphasis on those you both feature in.Once finished, you can share it publicly, complete with a #saythanks hashtag and a link for the friend to reciprocate, or (as is more likely) make a video card for another older and/or better friend than you. It’s a brutal place, social networking.Some Facebook users will adopt Say Thanks entirely seriously, enjoying the chance to relive shared moments with their friends and family.The rest of us will relish its comic potential: among the top photo suggestions for my card to one colleague are a grillpan of sausages; a pot-bellied clown in an open-to-the-crotch jumpsuit; Mark Knopfler; and a passage from Jimmy Savile’s autobiography.In fairness, that does cover the key pillars of our relationship, in the same way thatFacebook’s “Look Back” personal retrospectivecorrectly identified a photo of a dead mouse next to a hosepipe as a highlight from my first seven years on the social network. Algorithms are more fun when they’re slightly misfiring, in these situations.Why is Facebook launching Say Thanks? It wants us to if notsaythanks, certainly feel gratitude to the company for the way it’s become a platform for so many of our social interactions with friends and family members.Our shared moments are buried in its archives, rather than in dusty photo albums or unreliable memories. Say Thanks is as much a celebration of Facebook’s databanks as of our friendships. Set to music, with sausages.•What happens when you hand Twitter and Facebook to strangers
Why would Google want to confuse its own users by introducing a third, separate messaging app for mobile? Surely that wouldn’t make sense, given the clash of native, manufacturer-brand and free-to-download messaging apps already competing for the texting attention of smartphone users?But that’s exactly what Google has done, releasing a new messaging app for Android that’s separate from its Hangouts app and most Android device’s default messaging app.Google Messengeris a stripped back text messaging app that can only send and receive SMS and MMS, and can’t send messages over the internet like rivals WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger or even Google’s Hangouts app. It updates the basic text messaging app that comes pre-installed on almost every Android smartphone, and is part of Google’s strategy to uncouple its apps from its Android operating system.Conscious uncouplingThis conscious uncoupling is a good thing, because it allows Google and others to update the core apps on an Android phone through the Google Play store, rather than having to wait for updates to the operating system.But it also demonstrates Google’s confused software strategy for Android, with multiple apps that do the same thing all from the same company.Google started its text messaging with the Messaging app, which came built in to every Android device. Then there was Google Voice, which offered US customers one universal phone number to use across multiple devices, for both calls and texts.Later came Google Chat, a mobile extension of Google’s instant messaging app from Gmail, which morphed into Hangouts. Initially Google Hangouts couldn’t send and receive SMS, instead operating only over the internet like WhatsApp, but connecting to Google Chat for messaging desktop users as well as smartphone users.Hangouts then received the ability to send SMS messages in April, making it the the one messaging app for Google’s services and text messages. At the same time all Android smartphones also had at least one other text messaging app baked into the operating system, creating duplication that couldn’t be removed.Android’s ability to choose which messaging apps you use even for core functions is great, but Google’s app duplication simply confuses and that’s before third-party apps are installed.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/GuardianNow Google has yet another text messaging app, meaning users of Android phones made by Samsung, Sony, HTC and LG could have not one, not two, but three apps installed that can send and receive text messages. And that’s before anything like Facebook Messenger or third-party text-messaging apps are installed.With multiple apps all able to send text messages installed it causes confusion: which one do users use? Should you disable some? What happens if a text message opens in one? Do they sync across to the others?Photos or Gallery?The Android gallery app and Google Photos app is another classic example. Gallery is baked into Android as the default photo-handling app. It cannot be removed and ends up duplicating almost all functionality with Photos. And then Photos duplicates almost all the functions of Google’s other photography app Snapseed.All of Google’s photo apps do a fine job, but end up duplicating functions - which one should you use and when?Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianTo make matters worse, Android manufacturers such as Samsung, HTC and Sony all develop and install their own versions of the Gallery app, with similar but often more advanced functionality to Photos.It is clear Google intended Photos to replace the Gallery app with automated photo backup, sharing to Google+ and with built-in photo editing, but it hasn’t taken that important step of actually displacing Gallery from Android. Even Google’s Behshad Behzadi, lead technical manager on conversational voice search, admitted in a conversation with me that the situation is confused.The advantage of Android means that these apps can be ignored, because one can be set as the default app meaning the others never have to be used. But pre-installed apps often can’t removed, and so sit there redundant on the smartphone.It’s not an issue for the tech savvy, but for those less sure of their smartphone it’s an added annoyance.Pick a default and it makes the process slightly easier, but users still can’t actually remove the Gallery app even if they wanted to shot of simply disabling it which can cause issues.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianFacebook. No, WhatsApp. No, Instagram. No, Slingshot?Google isn’t alone in this consistent duplication of functionality. Facebook does exactly the same thing with four separate messaging apps. There’s WhatsApp, then Facebook Messenger, Instagram and Slingshot. Each serves a slightly different function, but ostensibly they’re all messaging apps.With the next version ofAndroid “Lollipop”Google has the opportunity to remove this confusing duplication of default apps, but despite its seeming willingness to create a more uniform experience with its new “Material Design” template, duplicate apps are still being spawned left and right.Apple’s locked-down approach isn’t the right way either, but at least Apple doesn’t create multiple default apps that do the same thing. Choice on Android is a very good thing, but Google should let users actually choose to install other apps rather than confusing the issue out of the box.•Google Android 5 Lollipop review - faster, prettier and better battery life
Twitter has revealed a number of planned improvements in a bid to rein in Facebook’s lead in the social media battleground.One of the most significant could be imminent changes to direct messages, which will allow users to share and discuss tweets privately, said Kevin Weil, vice-president of product, at the company’s first financial analyst day in San Francisco.The chief executive, Dick Costolo, said: “I strongly believe private messaging virality is important to our long-term growth”, in a reference to content that goes viral.The move comes after Facebook’s recent controversial introduction of a separateMessenger appwhich mobile users of the social network have been forced to use to communicate privately with other members.Weil also said that Twitter users would be able to upload video in addition to short, looping Vine clips by next summer: “You should be able to record, edit and share your own videos natively on Twitter.”Instant timelineTwitter said that the site needed to ensure new users understood how to use it. An upcoming “instant timeline” will offer content without making them search Twitter for individual users to follow.“We’re exploring ways to surface relevant tweets so the content that is interesting to you is easy to discover … while still preserving the real-time nature of the platform that makes Twitter special,” Weil said.Twitter has 284 million users, compared with Facebook’s 1.3 billion, and has been searching for ways to drive growth and keep users more active on the site. The company said last month that timeline views per user - a key measure of engagement - fell by 7% globally in the third quarter.It would be possible to roughly double the number of Twitter users to more than 550m in the “intermediate term”, with a longer term goal of 1billion-plus, executives said.“Consumption-first experience”Anthony Noto, Twitter’s new chief financial officer, was not concerned that the number of posts on Twitter has remained flat at about 500m a day. The company wanted to get people to read more, rather than post more: “We really need to build a consumption-first experience.”One of his slides read: “We believe we have the best aggregated content on one platform in the world - much of which is unique, appeals to everyone, and is relevant on a daily basis … There are a number of potential growth drivers that, in combination, if all executed successfully, could drive over $11bn in revenue.”Twitter said it had about 60,000 advertisers, while more than 9m small and medium-sized businesses had a presence on the service.However, analysts were reserving judgment on the ambitious growth plans. Richard Greenfield, of BTIG Research, said: “The question becomes, ‘will the product innovations drive a significantly larger user base and greater engagement/time spent with the product?’ Time will tell.”The company also said it would focus on building the fastest app, increasing speeds on Wi-Fi connections by 50%, with a 60% increase on mobile networks.•20 tricks to raise your chat game
It used to be simple. A decade ago, a games publisher would send out early copies of its latest release to magazines and websites. It would arrive with some sort of embargo restricting the date of any subsequent review coverage. Then, before the game hit the shelves, there would be range of critical responses to read through. That’s how games reviewing worked for 30 years.Now, it’s so much more complicated. Publishers don’t like releasing code early. It’s not just about protecting sales of mediocre titles (though that happens): they worry about piracy; they worry about major spoilers that could put players off purchasing a game that is highly narrative driven. With triple-A releases now costing $30-50m a pop, no wonder the companies responsible want to control the dissemination of their data and messaging. As in movies, everything is geared toward that opening week – millions of dollars of marketing, the acres of shelf space bought at key retailers – everything has to work just right. Launching a game these days is like a scientific endeavour. Games publishers are landing satellites on comets every other week.And then the games themselves have changed. Most new titles have intricate and extensive online multiplayer elements – or they require you to be online just to download updates and/or because publishers want to keep an eye on you. On a practical basis, a reviewer needs to know that the servers are working and that players will get the basic experience they are paying for. But more importantly, you need to know if the online experience is fun – and you often don’t get that sense from playing on pre-release servers with a few developers and fellow journalists.The industry is always telling us that games aren’t products anymore, they are services. You get the initial release, but after that, you get updates, downloadable content, new modes, missions and experiences … So what are you reviewing when a game comes out? Its potential? Its raw functionality? You are not reviewing the complete experience anymore.Perhaps games reviewers should think of themselves more like TV critics from now on. When a game is released, it’s like the first episode in a new series: you review elements of that – the set-up, the acting, the direction – but you also assess the possibilities in a frank and open way. Games evolve now; they are shaped as much by player activity as by design ambitions. This is why YouTubers have become so popular and valuable – they are part of games and convey the ever-changing experience – they report from the frontline of engagement.Power relationshipsThe power structures of the industry have changed radically in the past five years; the relationships between developers, publishers, retailers and players have been transmogrified by incoming technologies like digital distribution and social media. Reviews cannot remain as they always were – we’re not looking at books or movies, games are not discreet self-contained products. We’re looking at living, interactive “platforms”.The ties between games publishing and games coverage schedules need to be broken. When I first started buying games magazines in the late 1980s they were designed as consumer guides, gently prodding players from early hype toward purchase. But nowadays, purchase is the first step in a relationship with a game, and the rest of that relationship is just as important. Reviewing is always a subjective undertaking and always should be, but now critical writing must also contain a sense of its own mortality. Few major games open themselves to definitive responses - especially not early on in their lives.Back in October, Kotaku told its readers that its coverage would beconcentrating on current games, and last week it added that it would no longer be bound by publisher embargoes that restrict reviews to post-release publication. That’s all good – and I think perhaps the age of games release embargoes is over for most media sources anyway. Ultimately, there should be no deadline on coverage at all. Increasingly, the story of a game comes alive, not in the first moment of release, but weeks later, when players have settled in and established themselves in the world. Increasingly, reviews are not product assessments, they are tourist guides.
Google released its latest flagship smartphonethe Nexus 6to the public in early November. Previous Nexus devices have been good phones let down by poor battery life and camera quality, but excusable by its low price. The Nexus 6, however, is a big phone with a 6in screen and promises much.The Nexus 6 is the most expensive smartphone Google has made to date, and more than £200 dearer than last year’sexcellent Nexus 5. Costing £499, the Nexus 6 is in direct competition with top-of-the-line smartphones from Samsung, HTC, Motorola and Sony, not to mention Apple.Now that low cost is no longer an advantage, has Google and its manufacturing partner Motorola done enough to persuade buyers away from Samsung and Apple?And for those in the UK, the Nexus 6 will be on sale soon but delays in the supply chain are holding things up …Nexus 6 review: it’s time to go big - GizmodoEric Limerpraises the weight balanceof the Nexus 6, which makes handling the phablet manageable even if it takes some adjustment.The Nexus 6 poses a tough question for Android fans: Am I ready for a 6-inch phone? Google is betting the farm that you’re ready to take the plunge.If you hold the Nexus 6 with a pinky placed on the bottom for support, the top of the screen is unreachable except by a stretch worthy of Mr. Fantastic. Also, you run a pretty real risk of dropping the sucker.But if you place your index finger in the Nexus 6’s welcoming back-divot and just cradle the phone in your fingers instead of holding on for dear life, suddenly things fall into place. You’ll have to change your grip from time to time, but the whole wide world of screen is yours.Nexus 6 review: great phone, but you’re going to need a bigger hand – The Wall Street JournalBut even with good balance youmay not be able to fit the 6in phablet in your pocket, which could be a deal breaker for some says Nathan Olivarez-Giles.The Nexus 6 is so big, I wouldn’t advise people buy it unless they’ve held it in one hand and tried carrying it in a [trouser] pocket. Compared with the massive-in-its-own-right iPhone 6 Plus, the Nexus 6 is taller, thicker and heavier. Unless your name is Shaquille O’Neal, you probably won’t be able to palm it.Google’s best Nexus with bigger and badder specs than iPhone 6 Plus - TechRadarMatt Swider saysspecifications matter with Android 5 Lollipopand it shows in smooth the performance and handling.At the heart of the Nexus 6 is a 2.7Ghz Qualcomm Snapdragon 805 quad-core processor that has an Adreno 420 GPU. It’s a top-of-the-line chip for Google’s largest Android phone yet.Backing that up is 3GB of RAM and a reasonable 32GB or 64GB of internal storage. Notice, there’s no silly 16GB model to cheapen the value.All of these Nexus 6 specs aren’t overkill. It’s important for the lightweight, but feature-filled Android Lollipop update that’s pre-installed on the phone.Android does more things than ever in the background: it runs multiple apps, receives notifications that hit the new lockscreen non-stop and makes the instantly accessible Google Now available with one swipe to the left. Voice searches are also on demand whenever I say the “Okay Google” prompt.Nexus 6 review: Google shows it can make a big-screen phone - EngadgetThose specifications and large, high-resolution screencomes at the price of battery lifefor Brad Molen.The Nexus 6 doesn’t have terrible battery life, but it’s definitely not as good as many similarly sized phones. I used the device extensively at Engadget Expand last weekend, and I was lucky if the phone got more than 13 or 14 hours. A battery of that size and supposed power efficiency should still have juice left over after a full day of heavy use, and the 6 just wasn’t up to the task.Nexus 6 review: go bigger or go home - The VergeDieter Bohn thinksthe speakers are some of the best available:Unlike its smaller sibling, the Moto X, the Nexus 6 has two front-facing speakers. They are loud. Once I accidentally put the phone up to my ear when Google Now was about to speak in its Outside Voice, and I damn near damaged my eardrum. Still, these won’t replace your Jambox: at high volumes it can begin to sound a little tinny. But if the only phone that beats you in terms of sound quality and volume is the HTC One M8, you’re in good company.Nexus 6 review: the ‘premium’ price still comes with compromises - Ars TechnicaIt’sall about voice controlfor Ron Amadeo.The Nexus 6’s always-on voice commands are easily the phone’s best feature and will change the way you use the device. It’s so fast now that it’s just way easier to set a reminder or a timer with your voice. “OK Google remind me to buy milk tomorrow” is more efficient than turning the screen on, unlocking the device, swiping over to Google search, and typing in a reminder.These voice commands aren’t exclusive to the Nexus 6; they’re now a base feature in Lollipop, complete with support for the low-power voice processor. Even if you don’t buy the Nexus 6, the line in the sand is drawn. Make sure your next device has a special DSP for always-on voice recognition. (Unless you hate the idea of always-on voice recognition.)Nexus 6 Review: A Big, Beautiful, Cumbersome Beast - TechCrunchFor Greg Kumparak the phablet’s size is just too much and he’sgoing back to his Nexus 5.If you’re a happy Nexus 5 user and you’re looking for the sequel to that device, take caution: despite the sequential naming scheme, that is not what the Nexus 6 is. Wait a few months for Google to inevitably (/hopefully?) release a Nexus 5 version 2 — something of a more reasonable size and perhaps with a more welcoming price tag, but that still serves as the bar which all Android phones should strive to beat. For what it’s worth, I will be going back to my Nexus 5 after this review.It’s big, it’s round, it feels good in your hand: the Nexus 6 - The RegisterIain Thomson is in two minds as towhether he’d spend his own money on one.The gut check for any reviewer: would you spend your own money on the product? In the Nexus 6’s case, possibly. The app choice is much better than Windows Phone or a BlackBerry passport, and the handset is much cheaper - and seemingly more sturdy - than an iPhone 6 Plus.Samsung and HTC have interesting models, but there’s something appealing about a smartphone running the latest hardware that has been built to optimize a particular operating system, as Apple users are well aware. So possibly, but not certainly.Other reviews•Motorola Moto X review: listening out for your dulcet tones•Google Nexus 5 review: a great value smartphone that undercuts the competition•Samsung Galaxy Note 4 review: big, powerful and Samsung’s best yet•Sony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality camera•Motorola Moto G 2014 review: the best all-round budget smartphone•Apple iPhone 6 Plus: it’s a very big phone and it feels great - review•Google Nexus 9 tablet review: can’t match Samsung or Apple
I’m a sailor. I’m thinking of buying a cheap Android tablet with GPS to use as a chartplotter. Charts are free (in the US anyway). Of course there are dedicated marine chartplotters available, but as every sailor knows, once something is labelled “marine” its cost quadruples. Opinion? Suggestions?Dave NullThe best advice on this topic would come from people who have bought a smartphone or tablet, gone somewhere remote, switched it on and timed how long it takes the unassisted GPS system to find its location. It could take from 15-20 minutes to forever. I’d only consider a product that could do it in a couple of minutes. If your life was at stake, you might want it to work much faster.Perhaps some Ask Jack readers have done this experiment and can recommend tablets that work well. However, you should try asking other sailors in person or in sailing-oriented forums, or ask for advice in theGPS Review Forums.Unfortunately, it’s usually impossible to tell from the product specs whether a smartphone or tablet GPS works offline, and if so, whether it’s any good. But even if it has “real” GPS – usually a combo chip, not a dedicated GPS chip -- it’s not going to be as good as devices sold by companies such as Garmin, TomTom and so on. Real GPS chips cost money and consume too much power. What you get in a smartphone or tablet is a very low power GPS that needs a lot of help from the mobile phone network.How we got hereWhen smartphones started to become widely used, the US government was concerned that there was no way of locating users who called the emergency services (911 in the US, 999 in the UK). This led to the development of “GPS” systems that didn’t use the US government’s satellite-based Global Positioning System (GPS). Instead, they used triangulation (actually, multilateration) between nearby cell-phone towers or base stations. This muddied the distinction between any old location system and the real satellite-based GPS.Today, the location system in smartphones and tablets works pretty well using triangulation from cellphone towers, input from in-range Wi-Fi, and tracking from your last known position. Indeed, it works without a proper aerial and no view of the sky. Add a bit of real GPS and the results are even better. This system is usually called Assisted GPS (A-GPS, AGPS or sometimes aGPS).Assisted GPS greatly reduces the criticaltime-to-first-fix, because the device doesn’t have to scour the sky to figure out where it is. It already knows that, especially if it has been supplied with orbital satellite data over the mobile phone network. (This does not require Simultaneous GPS orS-GPS, which just means the device can receive GPS and voice data at the same time.)In passing, further improvements in GPS come from America’sWAAS(Wide Area Augmentation System), which provides a network of ground-based reference stations. Similar systems are being implemented elsewhere, such as EGNOS, the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service, and India’s Gagan (GPS Aided Geo Augmented Navigation). However, I don’t know of any tablets that can use them.Tablet choiceSo, the GPS systems in current smartphones and tablets work well because they already know where you are, because they remember your last fix, because they have tracked you on a cached map, and because they can get satellite information from the mobile phone network instead of from the sky. Try one in a shop and it should work well. Take it to a remote area, out of range of phone and Wi-Fi networks, and do a cold start, and it may not work at all.There are plenty of places where you can sail while still within mobile phone range, and if you have maps and charts stored on the device, a tablet may still work well enough. (Trying to use server-based maps such as Google Maps would be a really bad idea, but you can preload small areas.)If you still want a tablet, your best bet might be a SonyXperia Z,Z2orZ3-- all of which offer GPS, A-GPS andGlonass-- or one of the Samsung Galaxy Tabs that also supports Glonass, such as theTab 4 7.0. Glonass is Russia’s Global Navigation Satellite System, which is equivalent to America’s GPS. My guess is that manufacturers who support Glonass take satellite positioning more seriously than the ones who don’t. (In the longer term, we’ll also be looking for support for the EU’s Galileo and China’s Beidou Navigation Satellite System, which are undergoing development and testing.)Samsung Tabs are the most popular Android tablets, which would give you the best chance of finding people who have used them “in the wild”, if not for sailing then for hiking or off-road biking etc.If you’re sailing in places where your life might depend on GPS navigation working quickly and reliably, then it would be better to buy amarine systemlike theGarmin GPSMap 721, even though it’s more than twice the price. The 721 also supports “special sailing features” such as “laylines, enhanced wind rose, heading and course-over-ground lines, true wind data fields and tide/current/time slider”.Add-on optionsThere’s another option, which is to use a cheap but powerful GPS receiver that connects to a smartphone or tablet via Bluetooth or a USB cable. The $99Garmin GLO, for example, is “targeted … [at] users of tablets (such as the Wi-Fi iPad) that don’t have internal GPS chips and smartphones with internal chips that aren’t especially accurate,” to quoteBoyd Ostroff.You could mount your dedicated GPS unit where it has access to a clear sky while keeping your smartphone or tablet sheltered from the elements. This would also allow you to turn off the GPS system in your smartphone or tablet and get better battery life. Finally, you’d get a much wider choice of tablet, laptop or hybrid, including ones that run Apple’s iOS or Microsoft’s Windows as well as Android.
Drone pilots must respect people’s privacy when flying, the Information Commissioner’s office (ICO) has said, issuing new guidance on the operation of the unmanned aerial vehicles.Pilots should let people know before they start to record them, should plan their flight in advance and not let their drone out of sight – both to ensure they don’t lose it, and to reassure members of the public that they are the one responsible for the vehicle.The new advicewarns users of drones that, if their UAV has a camera, its use has the potential to be covered by the data protection act. Although “purely personal and recreational use” is unlikely to be covered, the ICO recommends that “all users of drones consider this guidance”.“If you are using a drone with a camera, there could be a privacy risk to other people,” the office says. “The likelihood of recording individuals inadvertently is high, because of the height they can operate at and the unique vantage point they afford.“Individuals may not always be directly identifiable from the footage captured by UAS [unmanned aerial systems, yet another name for drones], but can still be identified through the context they are captured in or by using the devices ability to zoom in on a specific person. As such, it is very important that you can provide a strong justification for their use.”The new advice is presented as part of the updated guidelines for operators of CCTV, of which UAVs are, in effect, a very specialised form. Personal use of drones is unlikely to pose data-protection issues, but for institutions using drones for a “more formal, professional purpose”, they should be aware of their obligations as a data controller.The new guidance also provides advice to users of technology which can automatically recognise elements of individuals, such as faces or eye movements, from video streams. Not only must any user provide “fair processing information to data subjects”, but companies which use automatic face recognition must ensure that they use high-definition cameras, which catch information at high enough quality to accurately identify individuals.“Any use of these automated technologies should involve some level of human interaction and should not be done on a purely automated basis,” the office adds.UK privacy watchdog seeks ‘stronger powers’ and better funding
Ah, the festive season! While I love bundling up for a spot of carol singing, decorating the tree with decrepit silver snowflakes and indulging in theDownton AbbeyChristmas special, the excitement of yuletide - like science - also lies in the unknown, be it the odds of a white Christmas or simply the contents of mysterious parcels piled high. Embracing the experimental, here’s my wish list - if nothing else, it’ll offer an alternative to Boxing Day charades.1.Dino Pet£37.40,biopop.comThe comical shape of this “pet” is a nod to the tiny photosynthetic organisms inside called dinoflagellates. The dinopet contains a bioluminescent species that when shaken undergoes a chemical reaction that produces a fleeting flash of blue light.2. Science Putty£6,debenhams.comA firm favourite when I was a kid, this entertaining goop is a non-Newtonian fluid - in other words, its viscosity is not constant. If you hit it with a hammer it shatters, but try to make a sculpture and it’ll slowly deform into a squidgy blob.3. Giant molecular model£130,miramodus.comWhen it comes to sculptures I choose a giant molecular model. This one is ethanol - particularly appropriate for the slightly squiffy festive season.4. Pencil digital stylus£49.99,shop.fiftythree.comAway from the office, I enjoy wielding a paintbrush, but it can be cumbersome lugging watercolour paraphernalia around. This stylus and app offer a surprisingly good, albeit different, experience. It doesn’t take long to work out how to create different colours and effects, but turning that into a great picture still requires a painter’s patience.5. Kid’s Stuff Crazy Colour bubble bath£2,sainsburys.co.ukThis bubble bath beats all the weird aromatic concoctions you usually find under the tree: it contains a pH indicator called bromocresol green that changes colour from yellow to blue as it’s diluted.6.Celestron NexStar Evolution 6£1,199widescreen-centre.co.ukChristmas for me means escaping to the countryside, so it’s the perfect time to make the most of the cloud-free nights and get everyone around a telescope. This one is pricey, but can hook up to your smartphone to track the constellations.7. Lego Arctic icebreaker£79.99,shop.lego.comAlthough Lego’s women of science, as featured in the short-lived “research institute” kit, never got tenure, this polar expedition set features scientists of both sexes bundled up for field work.8. Molecular gastronomy starter kit£69.99,msk-ingredients.comChristmas is all about adding a touch of class to your glass and kits like this make it simple. Use sodium alginate and calcium chloride to knock up little pearls of orange and rhubarb juice that burst in your mouth.9. Videre Pop-UpPinhole camera£45,sciencemuseumshop.co.ukDigital cameras and smartphones have fuelled new forms of photography - but too often we are ignorant of what goes on “under the hood”. This superb kit takes you back to the basics of picture-taking.10. Herb Garden£78,clickandgrow.comFresh herbs are great in the kitchen, but who is going to tend to my basil when I’m away? This smart herb garden could be the answer – just top up the water tank and leave it to the sensors inside to adjust the amount of light and water the plants get.
I am of course a Jew, so finding anything at all under “the tree”, and indeed finding “a tree” in my house, would be a distressing indication that someone had broken into my house and forcibly Pagano-Christianed me. Which isn’t a thing, right? I hope it’s not a thing. However, like all good late capitalists, there are Things I Want. Just give them to me for my birthday.1. PlayStation 4Destiny, for the PS4£350,game.co.ukI’ve somehow managed to get away without a PS4 this year, butDestinyandShadow of Mordorare tempting me; I guess if you’reofferingto buy me a gift, I’ll take the white one.2. Gingerline Clandestine Dining Experience£55,gingerline.co.ukGames doesn’t just mean things you play on a computer, or even with a board and some wooden pieces after too many cherry liqueur truffles. Gingerline, a London-based “secret dinner experience”, promises to introduce gamelike challenges and puzzles before you get to your dinner. Which, after a Pagano-Christian festival of excess, might be just the ticket.3. The Visual Display of Quantitative Information, by Edward Tufte£26,edwardtufte.comIf you’re interested in making games, you need to think about design, about how information can be packed densely-yet-readably into the visual field, and how conveying information can be pleasing and even beautiful. Edward Tufte is the acknowledged king of data visualisation - his books are must-reads for anyone who wants to start thinking about good design.4. Samsung Gear VR Headset£150 (not yet released),samsung.com5. Saitek X52 Flight Control System£108,eustore.madkatz.comVirtual reality is coming along nicely; the recent $2bn Facebook acquisition of Oculus Rift is the big story here, but the Gear VR Gaming Headset is something to be going along with. And, of course, if you’re going to playElite, a VR headset in combination with the Saitek X52 joystick gives the most absurdly “real” gaming experience.6. Apple iPad Air 2from £399,store.apple.com/ukThere are so many great games available on the App Store – so an iPad Air is a great choice.7. Dragon Age: Inquisition£60,dragonage.comI’m looking forward to the new instalment ofDragon Age: Inquisition. These games do really fascinating things with story and create brilliantly rounded characters.8. Asus ROG G750JS£1,200,asus.comIt’s been a long time since I had a gaming PC – probably not sinceMyst, if I’m honest – and it’s time to get back on that. A lot of wonderful indie games are available only on Steam for PC, so even though I love my Mac as much as I bah-humbug over Christmas, this is the year for a Windows gaming laptop for me.9. KanoKano computing and coding kit£100,uk.kano.meIf you love games, you might start thinking “I wonder how these things are made? I wonder if I can get even a little taste of the coding through which these modern-day cathedrals are constructed?” If so, consider the Kano mini-computer; pleasingly reminiscent of my childhood Spectrum 48K, it’s designed to make starting to learn coding easy and fun for children and adults.
Here is a list that will allow me to get rid of the older, less functional hi-fi junk that’s cluttering up my life.1. Line 6 JTV 69 Guitar£699,dolphinmusic.co.ukGuitar fans will know there’s only one real debate: Gibson or Fender? Les Paul or Strat? With a Line 6 Variax you don’t have to choose – at the twist of a switch on the body, you can switch “guitars”.2. Line 6 HD500X FX Pedal/Pre-Amp£429,dolphinmusic.co.ukThe Variax’s other half, this hefty floorboard functions as an expression pedal, a loop station, a MIDI controller and any number of effects pedals. Plug into this and you’re well on your way to stardom. Surely?3. Sonos Play:1£169,sonos.comSonos’s promise is simple: stream any content you want, from online, computer or even your TV, to any part of your home. The Play 1 is a compact speaker that can connect to your home Wi-Fi or an Ethernet jack.4. Sonos Playbar£599,sonos.comThe Playbar sits below or above your TV and produces a huge sound. It connects via the audio out of your TV; or, because it’s Sonos, streams music from online or other sources (including Spotify, Deezer, and any live radio including the BBC).5. Bose QC25 Noise-Cancelling Headphones£269.95,bose.co.ukThe QuietComfort range is the benchmark for noise-cancelling headphones. Unlike many over-ear headphones, they’re light yet tight enough that the sound cancellation is effective. Putting them on during your commute is like walking into a quiet room.6. Roberts Splash£100,robertsradio.co.ukThe Roberts Splash is a battery-powered DAB radio: it’s waterproof and has an LED torch built into one end, making it perfect for camping.7. Audio Technica LP120USBC Direct-Drive Turntable£279,audiotechnicashop.comSomewhere, somewhere in your house (or your parents’ house) there will be a vinyl record, and what you need to play it is a Technics SL-1200 turntable. Sadly, these are no longer made but an Audio Technica AT-LP120 is a reliable replica. Add in a Shure cartridge (elliptical diamond stylus obligatory - none of your circular styluses, please) tracking at less than two grams and you had the perfect way to listen to all the bumps, scratches, and off-centre pressing that vinyl conferred on the world.8. Deezer£9.99 per month,deezer.comWhat I value from a streaming service is its ability to find new music that’s quite like what I’m already listening to, but different enough to grab my attention, and ideally to find someone absolutely fantastic I’ve never heard before. I discovered Imogen Heap like that, and via her The Kills, and via them The Dead Weather.I’ve tried Spotify’s “artist radio”, but find it keeps playing the same big-name artists I’ve already heard. So I’d rather pick Deezer, which I’ve also tried, and found artists I’d never heard of but who are right up my street. A Premium subscription costs the same as Spotify, and you can play it on your new Sonos system (because it’s streaming – joined-up thinking). (Its mobile app is something of a thicket, but persist.)9. Arcam rBlink Bluetooth DAC converter£159,richersounds.comA DAC converter helps you get the best sound by converting a digital stream (from Spoitfy, for instance) to analogue – which an amplifier needs as input. This Arcam converter isn’t showy but is excellent.10. Skullcandy Fix EarphonesSkullcandy Fix Earphones £40 uk.skullcandy.com£40,uk.skullcandy.comI’ve tried a lot of headphones; the Skullcandy Fix are the best in-ear ones I’ve ever come across. The bass is more than solid, while the treble is excellent, and they’re light and easy to carry. Hard to beat unless you want over-the-ear headphones with noise cancellation.
The guilty burden of a sporty gift is that I might have to actually use it. That said, this collection is so pleasingly well engineered that I’ll have no excuse for following-up on new year resolutions.1. Rapha Cycling Jersey£140,rapha.ccThe South Downs can take quite a blast from south westerlies during the winter, so this Rapha jersey - with a design inspired by trailblazing US rider Connie Carpenter - would be just the ticket. It’s almost too beautiful for cycling.2.Canyon Ultimate CF SL 9.0£1,999,canyon.comCanyon’s bikes are so good they have been winning stages of the Tour de France. More importantly, the company sells straight to consumers, bypassing the usual retail mark-up. This carbon number weighs a shade under 7kg – less than half the weight of my seven year old son - so would be perfect for tackling the Downs near me. That said, I wouldn’t mind a more accommodating saddle.3. K-Swiss Ultra-Express Tennis Shoes£67,directtennis.co.ukA springy split-step would improve my game and these tennis shoes should give me some bounce.4. Head Graphene Instinct£79,sweatband.comMaria Sharaprova uses one of these and it includes some super-light and ultra-strong graphene in it’s construction – against that ball machine (see 7) I’ll need all the help I can get.5. Nike Printed Reflective Tights£90,store.nike.comThese reflective leggings should keep me safe and warm on dark winter’s evenings.6. Nike Free 5.0 Flash£100,store.nike.comTennis shoes are very supportive for awkward moves across court, but way too stiff for longer runs. These however have just the right amount of support and natural movement for my next ultramarathon across the Gobi desert. Or, more realistically, a 5K around the village.7. Spinfire Pro 2£1,700,discountballmachines.co.ukA child-free hour on the tennis court would be completed by a state-of-the- art ball machine. This one takes 200 balls and can fire them at you at 70mph every two seconds at different trajectories and directions.8. Tomtom Runner Cardio GPS Watch£220,wiggle.co.ukI’m not keen on taking my phone out running (prefer to be off radar) but this watch has built-in training plans and a heart rate sensor. I wonder what the GPS signal is like in Mongolia?9. Blaze Bike Light£125,blaze.ccFor night-time riding this light designed by London start-up Blaze cleverly projects an image of bike on to the road six metres in front – which gives drivers crucial nanoseconds warning of your arrival.10. Rio Supercast Riser with Mybo Synergy Air Recurve LimbsRiser £129, limbs £99, arrows £4 each,merlinarchery.co.ukI’ve recently taken up archery, so am in the market for a beginner’s bow. This riser (the orange bit) is made from magnesium alloy, which is 33% lighter than aluminium; the limbs are fibreglass laminated foam, which lessens vibration and the arrows have carb shafts – so I have no excuses, my editor says, for not making it to Rio 2016.
In my family we celebrate the winter solstice festival – well I do – and the others in my family just roll their eyes and get on with Christmas. For me it is about celebrating the shortest day of the year and the days starting to get longer again. I am not so happy that it has turned into a festival of consumption, but am a sucker for a well-filled stocking at the end of my bed. So here’s my list.1. Brompton bikeFrom £765,brompton.comIf you have a small flat with nowhere to put a bike, or you want a nippy commute bike, or want to go on holiday with one in the back of the car, or you just want to own a great classic piece of British engineering, or or or… You get the idea, you just need an excuse to have one, they are marvellous.2. Sweet Protection Rooster carbonski helmet£249,sweetprotection.comThere are few better ways to celebrate the festival than skiing in the mountains. A good helmet is essential, and this one keeps you warm, safe and is super sleek thanks to its carbon-fibre construction.3. Otto Cyclng Cape£88,ottolondon.comThe ultimate cape for cyclists. The handlebar straps deploy the cape into a tent shape, protecting not just your upper body, but your legs and feet too, from the rain. You’ll never consider wearing waterproof trousers again. Clever, elegant, simple – all the elements of great design.4. Toto Washlet GL£1,889 plus VAT,gb.toto.comIts the 21st century and we have the technology to clean our bums in a much more hygienic way, and this is one of the best on the market. I predict this will replace the iPad as a must-have item this year. It is time to make the toilet as sophisticated as the kitchen; after all, their functions are two sides of the same coin.5. iRobot Roomba 880£599.99,irobot.co.ukWe all have busy lives, and could not do without our washing machines and dishwashers. Vacuuming is equally time-consuming and boring, and I long to find a very capable robot that wants to take on the job. The Roomba could be it. I assume it will basically be like having a pet cat, but one that actually helps around the flat.6. ROK Coffee Machine£129,rokkitchentools.comAt least half the pleasure of drinking coffee is the making of it, so why would you deprive yourself of the olfactory and sensual pleasures it affords by making it from granules or a ghastly capsule?7. Ettrick Penknife£23.50,sheffield-made.comOK, it looks as if I’m obsessed with knives. But I do think everyone needs a decent pocket knife and they come no better than those made in Sheffield. I’m one of those people you see at airport control pleading with the security officials not to destroy my beloved penknife just because it happens to a have a blade one millimetre longer than the 6cm official limit. You will not have this problem with the Ettrick.8. Brazo table light by Pablo Designs£451,Haworth, ClerkenwellElectric lighting is going through a quiet revolution at the moment. Christmas tree lights are now made from light-emitting diodes. They are not just energy efficient but have a lifespan of 30 years, so you won’t be constantly replacing bulbs. This lamp uses the same technology to provide a bit of modernist chic year round.9. Thermapen Digital Cooking Thermometer£57.60,thermapen.co.ukIf you like to cook and don’t already use a digital thermometer then you are mad. It allows you to know the exact temperature inside your roasts, chocolate and other delicious things that need care and attention to get just right.10. Global knives£299 for three knife anniversary set,globalknives.uk.comCooking is a big part of the winter solstice festival, and for that you need a good set of kitchen knives. Global knives have a great balance in the hand, with blade and handle made from the same material in one piece, giving them a visua l elegance. If you are wondering why they cost a lot, it’s because they use a stainless steel containing chromium, molybdenum and vanadium. Why? Because this alloy retains its sharp edge for longer and will last you a lifetime.
Despite its rapid growth and explosion in creativity, the mobile games market has moments that would make any sane person hammer palm to face repeatedly.The latest is theMonument Valleygame getting one-star app store reviews because its developer ustwo dared to charge for new levels.To quickly recap: the game was released for iOS in April, and Android the following month. It’s been acclaimed by critics, players and platform owners – Apple gave it a design award in June – alike since its release.As a £2.49 paid game thatreached 1m sales by August, it also provided hope that there was still a place for beautifully-crafted mobile games on the app stores, even if they didn’t adopt the freemium model that’s become increasingly dominant.This week, ustwo released an expansion for the game, Forgotten Shores, with eight new levels to play. The company decided to charge £1.49 for the update via in-app purchase, but quickly found that this wasn’t going down well with some players judging by new reviews posted on Apple’s App Store.Seems quite a few people have gone back and 1 star reviewed Monument Valley upon update because the expansion was paid. This makes us sad.&mdash; ustwogames (@ustwogames)November 12, 2014The company followed up with a sharp response to the implication that charging for an update was ripping off – a phrase used by several reviews on the store – its players:That&#39;s it, we&#39;re giving up the premium game. Next time we&#39;re just going to sell you 500 coins for $2 instead.&mdash; ustwogames (@ustwogames)November 12, 2014It’s fair to say the response (on Twitter at least) has been very supportive, and judging by a follow-up tweet from the company – “It appears we created quite a stir, wasn’t intended” – ustwo may not be giving up on premium games after all.Even so, the affair does throw up some important questions about mobile gaming, and the expectations of mobile gamers. “NOW TRYING TO MAKE ME PAY MORE MONEY FOR A FEW MORE LEVELS!” shouted one app store reviewer. “Errr no. Such a rip off,” wrote another.“I expected the new chapters to be free, considering that I spent £2.49 buying this app in the first place. I won’t be spending any more of my money on this game!” suggested another.It’s true, there is a history of paid mobile games making new levels available in free updates – Rovio still regularly adds level packs to its paid Angry Birds games, for example. And in the freemium world, regular updates also swell games without charging players directly: there are now well over 700 Candy Crush Saga levels.Yet still, the Monument Valley update may be a good time for mobile gamers to step back and take a hard look at ourselves.Freemium gamesaren’tall cynical, psychologically-manipulative cash-grabbers, whatever the harsher critics of the model might say. But paid games – and paid updates – can play a role in this world too.Supporting that model means thinking hard about whether paying £2.49 for a game and then expecting free updates for its lifetime is sustainable, especially if the developer doesn’t have plush birds to sell.The great thing about the app store economy – even if it’s often a terrifying thing too for developers – is that it’s a free market. Anyone who thinks £1.49 for eight new Monument Valley levels isn’t a price worth paying doesn’t have to pay it.But taking that as a reason to one-star the game risks looking spoilt, greedy and entitled. Thankfully, with an average rating of 4.5 out of five stars for the current version of Monument Valley, most buyers are taking an alternative view.•40 best iPhone and iPad games of 2014 (so far)
British firm Mind Candy made a loss of £2.2m in 2013 due to falling revenues from its Moshi Monsters children’s brand, and heavier investment in the mobile apps that it hopes will secure the company’s future.Mind Candy’s latest financial results, which were filed this week with Companies House in the UK, reveal that its revenues fell by 34.8% from £46.9m in 2012 to £30.6m in 2013.The company swung from an £8.1m net profit in 2012 to a £2.2m loss in 2013, in what its annual accounts describes as “a year of transition and investment in the future”, including developing two mobile apps – PopJam and World of Warriors – that have launched in 2014.But in 2013, Mind Candy’s story was governed by falling income from its subscription-based Moshi Monsters online world, and its struggle to make money from a series of mobile apps spun off from it.“Touchscreen devices are now a much more popular way for children to consume entertainment than websites,” explains the business review section of the filing.“We have launched multiple Moshi branded apps (Moshi Monsters Village, Talking Poppet, Moshi Karts, Moshling Rescue and the Moshi Music app) but while download numbers have been strong we have yet to find a commercial model that works at scale. Creating commercially successful mobile products in the highly competitive app store has proved extremely difficult.”This is no surprise: former Mind Candy CEO Michael Acton Smith has been talking about these trends in a series of conference appearances during 2014.As the financial results were filed, though, Mind Candy’s president and chief financial officer Divinia Knowles told the Guardian that the company remains optimistic about its future.“It has been a challenging period for Mind Candy. Moshi revenues have come down, and we have not only been transitioning from web to mobile, but we’ve been in R&amp;D mode, building our new products PopJam and World of Warriors,” she said.PopJam is a photo-sharing social app for children, whichMind Candy launched in the UK in June. World of Warriors, meanwhile, isa game aimed at a wider audience of core gamers, which has just been released for iOS.“It took us about two years to develop World of Warriors game, which hopefully comes through in the production quality, and we’ve been working on PopJam for just over a year,” said Knowles.“It’s now been in soft-launch in the UK for a little while, and is starting to pick up some speed with a decent amount of downloads. We’re starting to see the fruits of our labours.”Moshi Monsters revenues may have dropped, but it was still a £30.6m business in 2013, with sales of merchandise and an official Moshi Monsters film complementing subscription income from the website.“Our development of content on the website has slowed as time has gone on, but there is still a business there: it’s been going six years, which is longer than many other children’s brands, but Moshi is still popular with children, who are playing it, and buying the toys and magazines,” said Knowles.She added that the trend of falling revenues in 2013 has continued in 2014 so far. “We have continued to see a softening of the numbers, and we haven’t made any real secret of that,” she said.“There are still kids on the web playing the game and buying the licensed products, so Moshi still continues to generate cash. And we have plans in the future to regenerate Moshi as an evergreen brand, doing some animation with it and so on.”Divinia Knowles is now Mind Candy’s president and CFO.Photograph: guardian.co.uk/guardian.co.ukWorld of Warriors has made an encouraging start for Mind Candy, with Apple making it a global “Editor’s Choice” pick on its App Store – a big driver for first-week downloads – more than 2m downloads so far, and and more than 62,000 positive player reviews on the US App Store alone.The game has appeared in the 50 top grossing games chart on that store, with (non Mind Candy) industry observers telling the Guardian that World of Warriors could currently be making $100k in daily revenues as a result.“The numbers are incredibly good,” said Knowles, who added that PopJam has now been downloaded more than 100,000 times in the UK during its soft-launch period, although Mind Candy plans to continue developing its features before releasing it elsewhere in the world.Mind Candy’s transition has another level beyond web-to-mobile: the company has also been adapting from Moshi Monsters’ parental subscriptions to the lucrative-but-controversial (for children especially) “free-to-play” model. World of Warriors’ in-app purchases go up to £69.99 at a time, for example.“World of Warriors is free-to-play, but that doesn’t mean we’re shifting all of our games and future products to free-to-play,” said Knowles.“The subscription model worked incredibly well for Moshi, it was incredibly loved and trusted by parents, and I feel that in the future we will go back to that model, including for PopJam, which is for children.”She added that Mind Candy is also trying to navigate the transition from being a company focused on children to one targeting a wider audience.“We’ve always wanted to build an entertainment company, and we’ve shifted from being a kids’ company to being more of a family company for the next generation. Warriors is aimed at a broader audience: we say ‘kids of all ages’ can play,” she said.“We know there’ll be older, predominantly older males playing it, but also kids, who are playing games like Clash of Clans and Candy Crush Saga. Warriors matches our ambition because it’s aimed at a broader audience: we want to be broad and family-based in our entertainment going forward.”Mind Candy is planning to launch digital and physical products for World of Warriors – the company’s financial results refer to “ongoing discussions” to create an animated series based on the game, as well as one based on Moshi Monsters.Knowles said that PopJam will also be more than just an Instagram-for-kids in the way it fits into Mind Candy’s overall strategy in the future, suggesting that the most successful family entertainment companies don’t just create “amazing IP” but also have their own distribution platforms.“If you look at Mind Candy, we have the success of Moshi, which is going to live on. We are creating new IP in terms of World of Warriors, but we are also building PopJam, which will be a distribution platform that sits underneath it all,” she said.“So rather than having to be a business that has to create hit after hit after hit, it will take away some of that boom-or-bust nature of what we’re building. We intend to create more IP that really engages our audience, and then have this wonderful platform and testbed underneath it in PopJam.”•Moshi Monsters ‘shifting our DNA away from the web to mobile’
The current generation of games consoles feels like a relatively open battle: Sony’s PlayStation 4 is perceived to have had the edge over Microsoft’s Xbox One so far, but latest figures from the latter suggest the race is far from won.“As we head into the busy holiday season Xbox One led generation 8 console sales in the US for the past two weeks,”wrote Microsoft’s corporate vice president of devices and studios, Yusuf Mehdi, yesterday. “Shortly, we will have sold in to retailers more than 10 million Xbox One consoles.”To be clear, the first sentence relates to the US only, but the latter is global shipments. The releases ofHalo: the Master Chief CollectionandSunset Overdrivehave brought some bona-fide buzz to Xbox One at exactly the right time, ahead of the holiday-shopping season.PlayStation 4 hit 10m sales in August, although that’s sales rather than shipments to retailers (which is the Xbox One figure). So Sony remains ahead, but Microsoft is at least gaining ground. How do you see this battle spinning out in the long term, though?If you’re a gamer and have chosen one (or both) of these consoles, how happy are you with your choice, and what would you like to see Sony or Microsoft do in the next couple of years to take it forward? Let’s not forget Nintendo: is the Wii U finding its niche in the current console market?If you’re not a gamer, are any of these devices appealing to you in their other guise – as home entertainment systems – or are you more likely to have a box powered by Apple, Google, Amazon or other tech firms sitting under your TV? The comments section is open for your thoughts.Also on the technology radar this morning:Twitter hasopened up about some of the changesit’s planning to make in the coming months: the ability to record, edit and share videos natively on Twitter; better ways to show users what they’ve missed when they log back in, and “an instant, personalised timeline for new users who don’t want to spend time cultivating one on their own”.There’s a new round in the row betweenTaylor Swiftand streaming service Spotify:her label says it’s been paid “less than $500,000”for US streams of her songs in the last year, while Spotify counters that it’s paid her label and publishers $2m globally in that period. “We paid Taylor’s label and publisher roughly half a million dollars in the month before she took her catalogue down...”More big news from Microsoft:plans to open up its .NET and Visual Studioto more developers, including open sourcing the full server-side .NET Core stack, and expanding it to run on Linux and Mac OS X as well as Windows. The vision: to reach developers “whether you are a startup, a student, a hobbyist, an open source developer or a commercial developer, and no matter the platform you are targeting or the app you are creating”.Good news for gamers: “Playing action video games substantially improves performance in a range of attentional, perceptual, and cognitive tasks”.Call of Duty is good for your brain!Although I can sadly report that having children that don’t sleep well substantially reduces your performance at action games. And, to be honest, the full gamut of attentional, perceptual, and cognitive tasks...Samsung’s Oculus Rift-powered Gear VRwill go on sale in the US in Decemberfor $249 with a Bluetooth joypad bundled in, or $199 standalone. Are you excited about strapping a phablet to your face and exploring virtual worlds?But while we’re on Samsung, boo hiss to the company formaking its startling corporate-diversity rap video private, after it was reported by tech sites. “Samsung, we 280,000 humans, 40% 112,000 women, you don’t have to worry after giving birth...” I suspect it’ll be returning in a few mashups imminently.What else? The comments section is open for your thoughts on the above, and other links you’ve spotted today.
The number of mobile apps for smartphones will continue to rise and big businesses that lack them risk being left behind, analytics company App Annie has warned.Apple’s App Store and Google’s Play Store both have 1.3m apps actively being developed and downloaded, while those apps have been downloaded billions of times. Somehave speculatedthat the number of apps and app downloads will level off as developers struggle to make money and justify development efforts and consumer appetite wanes.That is a view rejected by Marcos Sanchez, vice-president of communications for App Annie. “A load of other firms like Deloitte have said things like ‘oh, no more apps are going to happen’ – what a load of shit. I’ve heard this all before. The number of apps can and will grow and swell.”In Sanchez’s view, apps are like the worldwide web in the 1990s, when a rapid expansion soon meant that there were tens of millions of websites online.“Along comes Mozilla and HTML and by golly, now you can put up your own website for your business. At the time there were calls of ‘oh my gosh there’s 10,000, no, 1m, no 10m sites; it’s got to stop’. I’ve heard this all before,” explained Sanchez.“The reality is that apps might not be quite as prolific as websites, but you can have niche apps that have 1,000 users and that’s fine because they make a couple of bucks off each user a month.”He continued: “Things like the Garden Gnome collectors app or the Ham Radio station selector app – there’s going to be a place for these small apps; maybe they’re not making a crapload of money but they can find a niche. There will be folks who supplement their income with apps, a much smaller group of folks who can make a modest living and then there’ll be a sliver of the top 10 companies who are pulling down a billion dollars.”‘You either get on or you’re going to be dead in the water’Smartphones arefast reaching saturation pointin the UK and other developed nations such as the US, rapidly becoming one of the main computing platforms. Users are reaching to their smartphones displacing tablets and even desktops as the first port of call for internet activities.With app numbers expanding and becoming almost as common as websites, smartphone users could eventually avoid sites and services that do not have dedicated apps.“For those companies making a billion dollars but don’t have apps already, you either get on or you’re going to be dead in the water,” said Sanchez. “Mobile apps are no longer a luxury, but a necessity. Even for brands like Victoria’s Secret, which has two apps already, and they’ve been very clever about it: not selling bras but extending their brand to the teens to 20s market.”Apps are entering the next stage of their evolution as the smartphone becomes the central point for connectivity with other devices and services, and ever more crucial as the line between software and hardware blurs.For Sanchez, the death of the app is greatly exaggerated even if some developers and apps are likely torise and fall.•Google launches Fit app to take on Apple’s Heath and Samsung’s S Health•Microsoft leaks its own new fitness band and health software
It's Thursday.
Amazon is planning to test drones in Cambridge, England, as the battle to offer consumers same-day deliveries heats up.The US company announced with considerable fanfare late last year that it was considering using drones as a way of dramatically reducing the time it takes to deliver orders to customers. At the time there was speculation that the move was little more than a publicity stunt. But Amazon said in July that it had sought permission from the US Federal Aviation Administration to test drones that could fly as fast as 50 miles per hour for up to 30 minutes at a time to deliver packages weighing up to 2.3kg (5lb).Amazon is now expanding its R&amp;D operations in Cambridge – two years after buying Cambridge-based startup Evi Technologies – to take advantage of the talent pool of academics and researchers in the area. The lab will focus on Prime Air, Amazon’s name for its drones project, the blogTechCrunch reported.Amazon has advertised a number of aviation-related UK jobs in recent weeks, such as a flight operations engineer for Amazon Prime Air: “Flight test experience, manned or unmanned, is preferred,” theadvertisement stated. Other roles include a senior research scientist position and a site leader job.Nick Bubb, a retail analyst, believed the idea of making deliveries by drone was impractical and had questionable economics. He added: “Cambridge probably isn’t a bad place to trial drones, as it’s a relatively dry part of the country and aircraft-free, but there are still bound to be accidents and collisions.”Amazon is exploring a variety of ways to deliver orders faster than the overnight service it currently offers. It has experimented with using taxis in San Francisco and Los Angeles to make multiple deliveries bound for the same location, the Wall Street Journal reported this month. Last month, it introduced its first same-day collection service in Britain using a network of 500 newsagents and convenience stores under the Pass My Parcel brand. The service is only available for customers who sign up to Amazon Prime at a cost of £79 per year, although it also includes access to Prime Instant Video programming.Google demonstrated its own drone-based delivery service this summer, using a fixed-wing aircraft to deliver packages including chocolate bars, dog treats and cattle vaccines to a farmer in the Australian outback.In September, German courier company DHL announced the first regular drone delivery service, nine months after it launched its “parcelcopter” project. It will use an autonomous quadcopter to deliver small parcels to Juist, a sandbar island 7.45 miles (12km) off the German coast in the North Sea that is inhabited by 2,000 people. Deliveries will include medication and other urgent goods.Although the flights are automated, DHL says the deliveries will be constantly monitored by a ground station to ensure safety and compliance with air traffic regulations.A spokeswoman for Amazon Prime Air said: “We have multiple Prime Air development centers, including R&amp;D labs in Seattle and Cambridge. We’re always looking to add great talent to the team; the Cambridge-based Prime Air positions we have open are a reflection of that.”
YouTube is taking on Spotify with a new streaming music service calledYouTube Music Key, which will launch this week.The service will offer a mixture of audio and video streams, including full albums from artists signed to all three major labels, and hundreds of independent labels.It will be available in free and paid versions, with the former funded by advertising. The latter will cost £9.99 a month, although early adopters will get their first six months for free, and then a discounted rate of £7.99 a month.YouTube Music Key will sit alongside parent company Google’s existing subscription music service, Google Play Music All Access. Anyone paying for Music Key will also get an All Access subscription, and vice versa.Google is describing the six-month trial as a “beta”, which for now will be restricted to seven countries: the UK, US, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Finland and Ireland. The beta will be invitation-only, focusing at first on people who are already heavy music-video viewers on YouTube.“YouTube today is the biggest music service on the planet, thanks to our artists, our fans, our partners and the millions of official music videos, remixes, covers, mashups … you name it,” YouTube’s music content partnerships boss, Anjali Southward, told the Guardian.“We want YouTube to continue to be the best place for fans and artists to connect. We want fans to be able to connect with more of the music that they enjoy, and artists to have more opportunities to connect, as well as more revenue.”The new service will initially be available through YouTube’s apps for Android and iOS devices, as well as on its website. The company is placing particular emphasis on mobile, however.Paying subscribers will be able to download songs and videos to their smartphones and tablets, and listen to them in the background while using other apps. “It’s definitely a mobile proposition, the subscription,” said YouTube’s partner technology manager, Eddie Boyd.YouTube Music Key is mobile-focused, but will also work through desktop web browsers.YouTube Music Key’s biggest rival will be Spotify, the streaming service that announced this weekit has 50 million active users including 12.5 million paying subscribers.Others include Deezer, Rdio, Rhapsody and its European brand Napster, and Apple-owned Beats Music, which has yet to launch outside the US. Amazon also has a streaming service as part of its Amazon Prime membership scheme.Like Spotify, YouTube insists that labels who add their catalogues to Music Key must make them available to both free and paying users. “It is one YouTube. The videos are for everyone,” said Southward.That policy has been controversial for some artists, including Taylor Swift, whoseentire back catalogue was removed from Spotifyin November after the company refused to restrict her music to its premium subscribers only.Swift’s latest album – 1989 – will not be available on YouTube Music Key. However, her older albums will be included, as will the videos for newer singles including Shake It Off and Blank Space.Even before its launch, YouTube Music Key has provoked arguments within the music industry. Independent labels body WIN hasfiercely criticised YouTube, claiming it was offering worse terms to indies than to major labels.YouTube has since signed a deal with another independent body, licensing agency Merlin, and retreated from threats to block labels from its service entirely if they did not sign up to Music Key.The company hopes its new service will now be seen as proof that it is a friend for the music industry and musicians rather than a foe, building on the popularity of music videos on its existing service.“We are a very successful ad-supported business to date, and we have paid out over a billion dollars to the music industry,” said Southward. “We think this is an additional revenue stream for artists and our partners.”•Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube and Spotify?
The attendees at this year’s BlizzCon festival were no doubt expecting something special. The annual fan event, organised by veteran studio Blizzard, was celebrating 20 years of the Warcraft series of real-time strategy titles, and a decade of massively multiplayer spin-off, World of Warcraft. However, none of the assembled gamers and journalists could have predicted what would come next.Although best known for its dark fantasy and science-fiction titles, the Irvine developer unveiled Overwatch, a lighthearted, team-based first-person shooter shot through with a graphical style that has more in common with anime and Pixar than the Gothic grandeur of the company’s previous output.In the first few moments of the reveal trailer, attendees whispered their concerns. “What the hell is this?” one audience member muttered. “Is Blizzard making a fucking kids’ game?”Well, no, as it turned out. Overwatch – which was reportedly crafted out of assets from the now cancelled MMO, Titan - isn’t a game aimed at children, although it is highly accessible and far lighter in tone than any of the developer’s other IPs. Beneath the super stylised futuristic exterior, it seems to have more in common with Blizzard’s established franchises than immediately obvious – and not just because it’s an online multiplayer game, which has been a part of Blizzard’s DNA for over a decade.Class warOverwatch borrows a key aspect from the MOBA genre of games in that the action is centred on super-powered heroes who all boast powers and skills that are utterly unique to them. While the different avatars are divided across four classes (Offense, Defense, Tank and Support) and share common traits, no one character replicates the abilities of another completely. Presumably this makes Overwatch an absolute pig to balance – a task made all the more mind-boggling since Blizzard says it has more characters in the pipeline than the twelve available in the BlizzCon build.The characters themselves are an odd bunch ranging from bow-wielding samurai who can see through walls (Hanzo), to a lithe, lethal sniper with a grappling hook (Widowmaker) to a robotic rifleman with the ability to transform into a turret capable of cutting down even the strongest foes (Bastion). Each character also has a passive power: the dual-shotgun-wielding Darth Vader lookalike, Reaper, for example, heals every time he blasts a foe. There’s also an uber-attack that can be deployed when a meter is filled – Reaper transforms into a pillar of smoke and fires bullets in every direction.This isn’t a twitch-based shooter and players aren’t locked into playing it a certain way. If you’re absolutely rubbish at shooters – the whole aiming and firing thing – then you can simply select a class that better compliments your abilities (or lack thereof). Players who want to hang back from the action are better off selecting a Defense class character; a couple of them are able to fly away from danger and as they’re also the team’s healers, it behooves the other players to keep them safe from harm. Support class is for players who can be bothered to learn the map and identify its chokepoints. Tanks are – well – Tanks. The two on offer at BlizzCon were a giant ape called Winston who can activate a rage attack and a robot called Rheinhardt, who was armed with a shield and a massive hammer.In short, there’s a class and a character to suit every player, regardless of how inept at shooters they are. Furthermore, Blizzard says the modes in Overwatch will lend themselves more to team-based play. There’s no Team Deathmatch, and presumably no Free-For-All – instead, the two match types announced are Payload, in which one team has to deliver an EMP bomb to a point in the map while the opposing team has to stop them, and Capture Point, a riff on Domination in which teams capture nodes on the way to the doorstep of their opposing team’s starting point.Overwatch still needs polishing – this is presumably what 2015’s beta will be used for – and yes, it bears more than a passing resemblance to Valve’s Team Fortress. But then polishing and borrowing are what Blizzard does best. The developer has never laid claim to inventing a genre, but what it does better than any other studio, is tweak and hone games until they’re gilt-edged. Expect Overwatch to be no different…Should thieves in World of Warcraft be sent to real prisons?Hearthstone review: a compelling, if simple, card game
Some of the most celebrated startup success stories that have emerged and inspired in recent years include names such as Dropbox, Airbnb and Reddit.But what do all these relatively young companies have in common? Each started out in Y-Combinator’s tech accelerator programme that gave them the cash-infused nudge and workspace they needed to realise the full potential of their ideas.With more than half of all startups imploding two to five years after inception, accelerator and incubator programs provide young startups and willing investors with a medium to combine what they have to offer each other.Modelled on the success of Y-Combinator, startup accelerators are continuing to spring up on this side of the Atlantic with more than 100 programmes open for applications across Europe.Startup founders may have struggled to find seed funding in a place like London a few years back, but the influx of these programmes have brought with them a swell of investors and mentors to the capital. Already home to the cab hailing service Hailo, song identifier Shazam and social chat platform Badoo, the ever-growing list represents what a vast and emergent startup ecosystem there is in Europe.What exactly is a tech accelerator?A tech accelerator is actually a fairly simple premise: at one end you put a load of talented people or teams who have an idea for a company, a little bit of money in return for equity in the company (seed funding), provide some mentoring from people who have been there and done it before, give them some office space and leave it all to stew for about three months. They are often a much better bet than going it alone, you will not get fleeced on renting a tiny office space and they offer a serendipitous environment – you may just bump into your ideal startup partner and come up with the next big idea.How do I join an accelerator?Typically a new company that has two or three partners or employees will apply online to join one of these programmes. However, due to their increasing popularity (and the fact there is quite a lot of money involved), only the best ideas will get picked.Seed funding? Tell me moreLike all businesses, startups need cash. Whether it is to hire a great, new developer, create a prototype of their world-beating product, or simply to pay for their lunches. Investors who have been hand-picked by these programmes will offer up tens of thousands of pounds for a stake of about 5% to 10% in the company getting the cash. Quite often the initial investment will be followed up with more funding to help them on their way, unless the company is acquired.What do mentoring schemes involve?Mentoring schemes are almost always provided alongside seed investment at these programmes and they help to steer your idea on to the right path. They are run by mentors who can come from almost any background. They could be someone high up from a tech company like Google or Facebook; they could be a venture capitalist with a track record in investing in successful startups; they may even be running their own startup themselves, or a combination of all three.When you are accepted on to a programme, you will be thrown into a three-month whirlwind of growth, opportunities and potential problems. Mentoring schemes often last the duration of your time at a tech accelerator, with the first few weeks more intensively focused on training you in areas you need help in. After the programme ends and you “graduate”, you should be left on the path of a gradual climb to becoming a viable business or at least able to go ahead and convince further investors to work with you.Where do I sign?You first need a great idea and then to do some research to find out which programme is best for you. Programs such as the US-based Y-Combinator and TechStars boast an application acceptance rate of between 1% and 3%, but we have put together a list of some of the best tech accelerators in Europe.LondonBethnal Green VenturesBBC Worldwide LabsEntrepreneur FirstFirestartr.coFounder InstituteFreeformersInnovation WarehouseJLABLevel39Pearson Catalyst for EducationSeedcampTech StarsOther UK &amp; IrelandOxygenBirminghamC4DIHullIgnite100NewcastleBeta FoundryOxforddotforgeSheffieldDCU Ryan Academy’s Propeller Venture AcceleratorIrelandNDRC LaunchpadIrelandRest of EuropeStartup BootcampStartup WeekendStartupBus EuropeWayraIdealabsBelgiumNEST’upBelgium3ChallengeBulgariaElevenBulgariaLAUNCHhubBulgariaZIPCroatiaStarCubeCzech RepublicStartup YardCzech RepublicBuilditEstoniaGameFoundersEstoniaGarage48EstoniaStartup Wise GuysEstoniaStartup SaunaFinlandLe CampingFranceNextstarsFranceOrange FABFranceTheFamilyFranceAxel Springer Plug &amp; PlayGermanyBlack Forest AcceleratorGermanyGerman Silicon Valley AcceleratorGermanyhub:raumGermanyLiquid Labs GmbHGermanyProSiebenSat.1 AcceleratorGermanyOpenFundGreeceThe AcceleratorGreeceACME LabsHungaryiCatapultHungaryStartup ReykjavikIcelandH-Farm / H-CampItalySeedLabItalyTech PeaksItalyStartupHighwayLithuaniaGarageMoldovaRockstartThe NetherlandsbetaFACTORYNorwayGamma RebelsPolandHuge ThingPolandBeta-iPortugalMediafax M.incubatorRomaniaTolstoy Summer CampRussiaTetuan Valley and SeedRocketSpainBonnier AcceleratorSwedenSICSSwedenEtohumTurkeyFit Startup FactoryTurkeyInoventTurkeyEastlabsUkraineHappy FarmUkraine• Five British tech companies to watch
The Nexus 9 is Google’s new 8.9in tablet that is designed to show off the best the new Android 5 Lollipop in a full-size tablet with a new 64-bit processor.Google again has partnered with a manufacturer, this time HTC, to create its Nexus range of devices to demonstrate how it thinks Android should operate.The previous Nexus tablet was a 7in device made by Asus, which was very solid and was considerably cheaper than its competitors. Google also partnered with Samsung a couple of years ago to make the heavy and bulky Nexus 10 tablet, with a larger 10in screen.Square designThe plastic back is not as solidly attached as it should be with loose flexible parts in the centre around the Nexus logo.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianGoogle essentially designed an iPad to try to better Apple’s tablet. The Nexus 9 is one of the first Android tablets to use the squarer 4:3 screen ratio, which is still used by Apple tablets and was the norm for televisions before being replaced by the 16:9 “widescreen” aspect.Almost all televisions sold today are 16:9 and all TV content is broadcast in the ratio. Most Android tablets are also wider in format, either 16:9 or 16:10, which suits video consumption and avoids black bars at the top and bottom.The back of the tablet is made of a high-quality smooth plastic, but feels disappointingly loose in the hand. It visibly separates from the hardware underneath and flexes when pushed gently. It could be a one-off defect, but others have reported similar flaws. The white back also picks up marks very easily, which can be rubbed off but could be a chore to keep clean.The sides of the tablet are brushed metal, but the edges touching the glass of the screen are rough when sliding a thumb over them. It is 8mm thick - 1.9mm thicker than theiPad Air 2and 1.4mm thicker than theSamsung Galaxy Tab S, and weighs 436g – virtually the same as the Air 2 and 29g lighter than the larger 10.5in Tab S.The rest of the tablet is relatively well built, with only a little twisting of the body, but it just does not feel quite up to HTC’s usually very high build quality standards demonstrated by theexcellent One M8.The screen is sharp and of similar pixel density to the iPad Air 2 and Galaxy Tab S, with wide viewing angles. However, it fails to match the very high bar set by the Galaxy Tab S’s screen and is not as bright, vivid or colourful.Two front-facing speakers at the top and bottom of the screen are loud and clear, but quickly collect dust. The screen is also a fingerprint magnet.The front-facing speakers, here just above the camera, are loud and clear, but will need regular cleaning to keep the dust out.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianSpecificationsScreen:8.9in 2048 x 1536 retina display (288 pixels per inch)Processor:Nvidia Tegra K1 64-bit 2.3 GHz dual-coreStorage:16/32 GBOperating system:Android 5 LollipopCamera:8MP rear camera, 1.6MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:Wi-Fi (4G optional), Bluetooth 4.0, NFC, GPSDimensions:153.7 x 228.3 x 7.95 mmWeight:436g64-bit stutteringThe Nexus 9 is the first Google tablet to use a 64-bit processor. The dual-core Nvidia Tegra K1 gets noticeably warm close to the camera with even general use and almost uncomfortably hot when playing a graphics-intensive game.Performance is a mixed bag, with lag and stutter noticeable throughout. Some apps load frustratingly slowly. Once they have done so they generally run well, but scrolling between screens can sometimes freeze even in the Google Play store.The keyboard often lagged too, which was deeply irritating. Performance problems of any kind are uncharacteristic for Nexus devices, which promise to be lag and stutter free with the least bloated software available. A recent software update was meant to address these issues but did nothing appreciable to correct the annoying lag.The brushed metal edge is attractive, but the lip where it meets the screen is rough when a finger is swiped over it.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe tablet will last around a day of typical use for watching video, emailing and web browsing, similar to the Air 2 and Tab S, longer if only used infrequently as the standby time is a couple of days. Android Lollipop’s new battery-saving mode can also extend this period by limiting data access and app performance.Like other recent Nexus devices from Google, the Nexus 9 lacks a microSD card slot for adding more memory, which means the 16GB storage will fill up very quickly with apps, games, movies, music and photos. The 32GB version is recommended, but even 32GB is relatively small when some apps and games can be as big as 1GB and movies even larger.Sweet LollipopThe Nexus 9 is the first device to run Google’s new Android software – version 5 “Lollipop”. The new software adds several useful features, including the aforementioned battery-saving mode, enhanced user profiles for sharing a device with family and friends and a slick new look and feel.•Google Android 5 Lollipop review - faster, prettier and better battery lifeOne notable feature is the new Google Calendar app. It is a big improvement over the old one with a more modern interface that is much easier to read, with big images and intelligent icons that better represent scheduled events. It is expected to come to other Android devices in the future.The Gmail app now supports email accounts from other providers, including Yahoo, Microsoft, Aol and Exchange for work email, which means all email can now be read in one place without the need for multiple applications. The Gmail app is also available on most other Android devices.CameraThe camera is decent for a tablet, with the actual lens being one of the most attractive fitted to any tablet or smartphone.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe eight-megapixel camera on the back of the tablet takes passable shots, which like most tablets are not as good as a decent smartphone camera, but will do the job for quick snaps. It can take a while to focus, and the low-light performance is not very good. The front-facing 1.6-megapixel camera is decent for video calling and average selfies.PriceThe Wi-Fi-only Google Nexus 9 costs £319 for the 16GB version and £399 for the 32GB version in black, white and beige. A 32GB version with 4G mobile broadband costs £459 in black only.VerdictThe Nexus 9 is relatively easy to hold with one hand, but your arm and wrist will need support if reading or watching video for an extended period.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Nexus 9 is Google’s attempt to beat the Apple device with an iPad-like tablet, but it fails to live up to expectations.It has a smaller screen than the iPad Air 2 and Galaxy Tab S, but is not any more portable. The screen isn’t as good as either the Air 2 or the Tab S, and the stutter and lag throughout is irritating.The build quality is also not good enough for a tablet costing more than £300, and while Android 5 Lollipop software is a big step up, other Android tablets will receive it soon.The Nexus 9 might improve with software updates, but for now theSamsung Galaxy Tab Sis the best Android tablet by some margin and Google has givenApple’s iPad Air 2nothing to worry about.Pros:Android 5 Lollipop with rapid software updates; solid tablet camera; all-day battery lifeCons:thick; lag and stutter; loose back panel; gets very hot; average screen; limited storageMore reviews•Samsung Galaxy Tab S review: the best Android tablet and a solid iPad rival•Apple iPad Air 2 review : Apple’s best tablet yet, but is that enough?•Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet review: a serious iPad Air competitor•Which is the best tablet for Christmas?
On 12 September, 2013, Philip and Andrew Oliver, founders of Leamington-based development studio Blitz Games, stood in front of their 200 staff and told them the company had gone into liquidation. For 20 years, the business model had been to work with publishers on comparatively quick licensed game tie-ins – console versions of kid’s brands like Barbie, Sponge Bob and Shrek. But then the smartphones and app stores came along taking a lot of that work away; the publishers stopped calling. Blitz collapsed.But Philip had an idea for a new game, a sandbox adventure set in a persistent multiplayer universe. He’d taken it to the major GDC event in San Francisco in March and met a company he’d never heard of, Smilegate, a South Korean publisher and developer of free-to-play online titles. Its major series, it turned out, is Crossfire, the biggest first-person shooter in the Asian market. It makes $1bn a year. When Blitz went down, Smilegate CEO Herald Kwon said he’d publish the new project if the Olivers could get a development team together. So the brothers formed a new studio, Radiant Worlds, re-employed about 50 former Blitz staff and started work.The result isSkysaga: Infinite Isles- a hugely ambitious free-to-play online multiplayer adventure.Skysaga: Infinite Isles – worlds are filled with beasts like sheep, wolves and bears. There’s a dynamic food chain – which players aren’t always at the top ofPhotograph: PRImagine a cross between Minecraft, Legend of Zelda and Journey and you’re on the right path. “Smilegate were looking for a game that could go global, a game that was creative, that had sandbox elements, and they wanted a western developer,” says Philip. “We got on well – they’re a lovely company. And there’s a joint goal here. Although we didn’t want Blitz to go under, we now have a new culture, a new philosophy, we’re all dedicated to this one game.”The set-up is familiar. Every inhabitant of Skysaga has their own home world, a floating sky island, which they can customise in the standard Minecraft way – by gathering resources and crafting them into building blocks, tools and items. Every sky island exists in a cloud-based persistent online universe, so players are able to visit each other’s homes, co-operating on building projects.But this is only the base station of the Skysaga concept. On each home island there’s a portal, which leads to an adventure quest. When players pass through, they materialise in a procedurally generated landscape, complete with its own enemies and a quest objective - perhaps a castle, village or dungeon complex. They must then battle their way toward the end-point, defeating the boss character and collecting the treasure. So it’s a Roguelike role-playing game, within a Minecraft creative world – although design director Ben Fisher cites the original Legend of Zelda as an influence on the design rules behind the dungeons, which often offer different route options, but retain an easily navigable layout.Each quest also contains pieces of keystone. When these are returned to the player’s home world they can be joined together to create new quest adventures. Players who explore the portal landscapes fully will discover much rarer keystone fragments, which provide access to more challenging in profitable quests. Radiant Worlds has built a system capable of generating thousands of these quests a day, each using a series of pre-set rules governing the size and nature of the environment. The computer builds its own castles, houses and other constructions, using a complex modular system.When we visited, coder Mark Witts typed in a few constraints and let the program build a new world focused around a vast castle; it took seconds to generate and there it was, a new adventure landscape, with a massive citadel, built into a ragged cliff face. The program then checks to make sure the castle makes geographic and spatial sense – that all its rooms are explorable – then it adds the world to its collection, ready to serve to players.Players togetherThe game also contains a seamless matchmaking system, so players entering a portal may find themselves in an adventure quest with another participant, allowing them to co-operate on the journey. Players will also be able to organise themselves into guilds to attempt the tougher adventures – there’s a trading element too, allowing adventurers to sell valuable elements or items they’ve discovered on their travels.The visual style owes a lot to Mojang’s seminal block building world, of course. Like Minecraft, Skysaga is built using voxels, so landscapes have an angular look. However, the engine is more sophisticated, allowing for greater visual complexity. Flora sways in the wind, a dynamic sun casts real-time shadows as it passes over; in colder areas, snow settles on the landscape – even on new areas freshly dug out by the player. Every quest world is segregated into different biomes – desert, snow, forest, etc, all with their own geographic properties. Furthermore, the properties of those worlds are all different. So, a castle in a tundra world will be built using different stone than a castle in a swamp world – and enemies will have access to different materials so their weapon and armour looks different and has contrasting properties.Progression is based around a levelling up system. There are various skill paths– architect, blacksmith, explorer, miner, etc – as players rank up in these disciplines, they unlock new recipes which can be used to construct more advanced items.The game will be PC only when it launches next year, though there are plans for other Skysaga titles on other platforms – though Radiant Worlds won’t specify which. An alpha is starting in the UK next month. Skysaga: Infinite Isles will have plenty of competition in the sandbox adventure genre – not just Minecraft, of course, but also other smaller contenders like Tug, Oort Online and Proven Lands. However, not every studio has the support of an emerging Korean free-to-play giant, and there are so many really neat, interesting ideas in this title, it has the capacity to define rather than merely explore genre conventions.Players will need to learn how to survive in the more challenging environments, crafting furs to explore frozen areas, while staying in the shade in desertsPhotograph: PRIndeed, if the various generative and player-focused systems can truly work together in dynamic and unpredictable ways, Skysaga could prove a fascinating step forward for creative procedural play. The Oliver brothers took a major role in the British games industry of the eighties, exploring and expanding the concept of narrative adventures in their legendary Dizzy titles – now they are back with something similarly bright, appealing and imaginative – just many times more complex.“I feel like in those last few months at Blitz, we managed to establish a brilliant vision for this game,” says Oliver. “The staff feel invested in it - when we made those job offers to them, we’d just laid them off. They had the choice - there are enough games industry employers locally. But they joined us. And then Smilegate said, okay, you’re going through a tough time, but if you can set up we’ll back you. Now it feels like a joint goal, a joint vision. Anything is possible.”The five most disruptive ideas in video game design
A weakness in newer versions of iOS lets hackers install apps on iPhones or iPads by sending users an email or text message.The attack can be used to steal personal information, eavesdrop on communications or potentially track the user’s physical location with the GPS chip in the Apple devices.Discovered by security researchers FireEye who named it “Masque”, the attack takes advantage of similar enterprise-focused tools to Wirelurker, a previous iOS bug that let an attacker use a compromised Mac to install software on an iPhone.Before they can be infected, the user must be tricked into clicking a link in a text or email, and then accepting a prompt to install an app. Typically, an app installed this way requires a security certificate signed by Apple to work on iPhones that have not been modified to install unofficial apps, and so malware cannot get past the gate.However, Masque uses a vulnerability that lets an iOS app with the same file name replace a real one, regardless of developer. Users might think they are installing the new Flappy Bird, but in reality they are downloading an app that silently replaces their Gmail app with a fake one. Their iPhone does not prevent this happening because it does not realise the Gmail app has been replaced.FireEye says that Masque is an application of the same principle used in the WireLurker attack, but on a much grander scale. “After looking into WireLurker, we found that it started to utilise a limited form of Masque attacks to attack iOS devices through USB. Masque attacks can pose much bigger threats than WireLurker,” according to the company’s researchers Hui Xue, Tao Wei and Yulong Zhang.“Masque attacks can replace authentic apps, such as banking and email apps, using attacker’s malware through the internet. That means the attacker can steal a user’s banking credentials by replacing an authentic banking app with an malware that has identical user interface.“Surprisingly, the malware can even access the original app’s local data, which wasn’t removed when the original app was replaced. These data may contain cached emails, or even login-tokens which the malware can use to log into the user’s account directly.”Users can avoid infection if they do not install apps from third-party sources other than the official App Store or their own company. Yet the existence of the flaw still poses risks if users can be tricked into accepting the installation anyway.FireEye notes that there aren several mitigating factors: “An attacker would have to obtain an enterprise provisioning profile or steal one, neither of which are trivial. There would also always be a warning to the user, which should look suspicious because it’s not something you would normally see in iOS. As long as you select ‘don’t install’, you will be protected from this vulnerability.”In the long run, the vulnerability looks more likely to be employed as a “spear phishing” attack: highly focused attacks aimed at stealing the personal data of a specific target. Such attacks have been the basis of many wider hacking successes, such as those carried out by the Syrian Electronic Army.
“Our choice isn’t between a world where either the good guys spy or the bad guys spy. It’s a choice of everybody gets to spy or nobody gets to spy.” Sosaidthe security luminary Bruce Schneier at BBC Future’s World-Changing Ideas Summit in October. He was considering a world in which the metadata zipping around us and the static information sitting on web servers across the globe is accessible to those with the means and the will to collect it all.With so many cheap or free tools out there, it is easy for anyone to set up their own NSA-esque operations and collect all this data. Though breaching systems and taking data without authorisation is against the law, it is possible to do a decent amount of surveillance entirely legally using open-source intelligence (OSINT) tools. If people or organisations release data publicly, whether or not they mean to do so, users can collect it and store it in any way they see fit.That is why, despite havinga controversial convictionto his name under the Computer Misuse Act, Daniel Cuthbert, chief operating officer of security consultancy Sensepost, has been happily using OSINT tool Maltego (its open-source version is charmingly calledPoortego) to track a number of people online.Over a few days this summer, he was “stalking” a Twitter user who appeared to be working at the Central Intelligence Agency. Maltego allowed him to collect all social media messages sent out into the internet ether in the area around the CIA’s base in Langley, Virginia. He then picked up on the location of further tweets from the same user, which appeared to show her travelling between her own home and a friend or partner’s house. Not long after Cuthbert started mapping her influence, her account disappeared.ISIS intelligenceBut Cuthbert has been retrieving far more illuminating data by running social network accounts related to Islamic State through Maltego. By simply adding names to the OSINT software and asking it to find links between accounts using commands known as “transforms”, Maltego draws up real-time maps showing how users are related to each other and then uncovers links between their followers. It is possible to gauge their level of influence and which accounts are bots rather than real people. Where GPS data is available, location can be ascertained too, though it is rare to find accounts leaking this - only about 2% of tweets have the feature enabled, says Cuthbert.He has been trying, with mixed results thanks to Twitter’s deletion of accounts spreading Isis propaganda, to determine how tech savvy its members are and how they operate online. Over the past month, Cuthbert has looked at links between a number of pro-Isis users, including one with the handle @AbuHussain104, who has only tweeted 28 times, yet has more than 1,300 followers already. The prominent pro-sharia law Islamic activist Anjem Choudary has been a keen retweeter of Hussain’s words.ZamZam Water available in the#khilafah:)pic.twitter.com/Y0PdzKxyyH&mdash; AbuHussainAlBritani (@AbuHussain104)November 1, 2014The London-based professional hacker has noted the group’s ability to attract followers online; his research shows how a handful of Isis-affiliated accounts have myriad links and wide influence.Though he is dubious about the veracity of some of the beheading footage, Cuthbert, who also produces documentaries, says the films are well edited.Having gathered intelligence a handful of influential accounts, Cuthbert is now on the lookout for slipups that reveal the true identity or location of the tweeter. “This is a concern for high-ranking Isis leaders, so much so, they issued a guide on using social media,” he notes, referring toreportsof an as-yet unconfirmed document.Whether they are Isis members or not, web denizens are prone to giving away a lot on social networks, but businesses are often guilty of failing to clean up after themselves too.Recorded Future, another provider of OSINT tools that also came up against Twitter’s censors, claims to have coverage of more than 600,000 open web sources across seven languages from which to find patterns or useful data.In October it found that 44% of Fortune 500 companies have had employee usernames and passwords leaked online this year. The credentials, stolen during small-scale cyber attacks using freely traded exploit tools against unpatched sites and servers, were posted on variety of forums and paste sites, according to Recorded Future.Metagoofil, which runs onLinux or Mac machines, is an ideal software for uncovering data businesses have mistakenly leaked onto the internet. Running this free tool in a Linux distribution, hackers can command it to hunt for files related to a particular domain, specifying how many Google searches to look through and how many documents to download. It will then extract whatever metadata the user is looking for and store it all in a file for perusal later on.Getting creepy with ShodanFor those who want instant visual results, the Shodan search tool is a remarkable piece of work. Simple searches can reveal miraculous details. For instance, type “IP camera” into the search bar and more than 1.3m internet-connected IP cameras show up from across the world. Add “country:gb” and you’ll be shown more than 54,000 based in Great Britain. You could specify a manufacturer too, such as Samsung. That provides just 13 results. From there, it’s a matter of clicking on the IP addresses to see which ones allow you to view live footage either with or without a password (if you guess the password, even if it’s a default one such as “admin”, it will mean you are likely to have broken the Computer Misuse Act).Either way, it is very easy to find poorly secured cameras - many have a username of “admin” and no password whatsoever, according to previous research. It is that straightforward: no coding skills required.I ran a search for webcamXP, which bills itself as “the most popular webcam and network camera software for Windows”, and uncovered a large number of UK-based feeds without any authentication (see images below). One was inside a classroom at Lancaster University, which ironically has one of the top cyber security research teams across UK academia. I managed to view an entire seminar free of charge (though there was no sound and there was nothing useful to be gained other than looking at the morose faces of students awake before midday).The university took down the feed soon after the Guardian disclosed its discovery.Many showed footage from inside people’s living rooms. They are likely to be oblivious to the fact that anyone on the web can see into their lives, unless they simply do not care. As a pro-privacy writer, I am choosing not to publish images from inside people’s homes. But my searches made it apparent anyone can create their very own voyeuristic version of Gogglebox, all because people have neglected to put usernames and passwords on their CCTV cameras.Even a search as simple as “default password” on Shodan will bring up reams of results, showing you exactly what login credentials are needed to access things like routers and web servers. It is startling how much insecure kit there is on the internet.It is possible to take information found on Shodan and use it for even more malicious means such as data theft. For hackers, the search service provides a marvellous way to see how many vulnerable systems are open and ripe for compromise. Searching for systems running the now unsupported Windows XP (meaning it is vulnerable to many exploits - though you will need proper security skills to exploit them) brings up fruitful results - 54,000 machines in fact.A search for all UK government organisations running Windows XP brings up 36 servers, a number of which are based in Whitehall, including one at the Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office. Using targets selected with Shodan, anyone with basic knowledge of hacker tools that throw exploits at vulnerabilities in XP would most likely be able to compromise scores of machines running the OS.Using OSINT for goodIf Shodan and other OSINT tools can be used by malicious hackers, they can and are used by ethical ones too. Their initial aims are the same: to find and take advantage of vulnerabilities. It is only that penetration testers are paid by companies to break into networks to show where weaknesses lie and how to keep others out.“The tools are mostly for reconnaissance,” says Christian Martorella, creator of Metagoofil and theHarvester, another OSINT software that pentesters - or “ethical hackers” - use to map their clients’ internet footprint. “This helps the pentester to have as much information as possible about the targets and plan the attacks. This phase is very important but ... pentesters usually overlook this phase or dedicate little time, while attackers seem to spend more time in this phase.”Privacy-conscious folk can also benefit from OSINT. While looking into how his internet service provider [ISP] was interfering with his internet connection, in a method similar to that used by Verizon for its controversial “permacookie” tracking software, researcher Lee Brotherston last month used Shodan to find servers that intercepted his traffic. The wide range of Perftech servers he found were based across the world, and though his ISP was simply using a “man-in-the-middle” technique to add a warning banner to a website he visited, Brotherston was concerned such interference has been used in the past by repressive regimes to spy on people’s web activity.What if the ISP was coerced by a government and dropped malware onto people’s machines as they tried to access websites? The much-maligned surveillance tool FinSpy is used for just for that purpose: it is placed into the data centres of ISPs and intercepts traffic to force surreptitious downloads of surveillance software. Instead of dropping banners, as Brotherston’s ISP did, it injects malicious JavaScript.“When you hear about repressive governments that start installing malware on activists’ machines and then arresting them… it’s the same technique. They’re injecting data into a webpage,” says Brotherston, a Canada-based Brit. “If you’re injecting this, you may have a valid business case for doing, it but someone could break in and start dropping malware on people’s machines.”A number of developers, inspired by the success of Shodan creator John Matherly, have drawn up search sites for hackable systems. Perhaps the most useful for security professionals, whether of the blackhat or whitehat variety, is the Kickstarter-fundedPunkSPIDER, a web app vulnerability search engine, which issues an alert as soon as the visitor arrives: “Please do not use this site for malicious purposes … use it wisely or we’ll have to take it away”. It’s remarkably simple. Type or paste in a URL and it will reveal what vulnerabilities have been documented for the related site.I spy … a surveillance stateSuch is the openness of the web, and such is the carelessness of so many web denizens, any determined citizen can gather up reams of sensitive information on others and collect enough data to create a decent picture of who they are, where they are and what they are doing. The tools are now accessible for the typical web user.As the work of Cuthbert and Brotherston attests, such operations can have ostensibly “good” intentions. Although I felt uneasy looking at people through their CCTV cameras without them knowing, I was at least able to alert Lancaster University to the problem so it could take action.But as security expert Schneier said in an email discussion with the Guardian, it is not the “average web user” that should concern us. Rather, it is those who use OSINT as a starting point for more malicious means. “It’s other countries, it’s criminals, it’s hackers. And you can’t design a surveillance system that only the people you want are able to exploit it.”As the US and UK governments demand that the likes of Apple and Google do not close off users’ data to intelligence agencies and law enforcement with high-grade encryption, they are also asking technology companies to open up more avenues for criminals to do their own snooping.•China linked to cyber attacks on Taiwan exploiting Windows vulnerability
The Hunger Games actorJennifer Lawrence, who was recently the victim of a nude photo hacking scandal, has said she is not active on social media and never will be.In aninterviewwith BBC Radio 1’s Nick Grimshaw, Lawrence was asked by a fan: “Why don’t you have Twitter and will you ever get it?”To which the star emphatically and quickly answered: “I will never get Twitter.”Sitting alongside her co-stars Liam Hemsworth and Josh Hutcherson, she elaborated:“I’m not very good on phones or technology. I can not really keep up with emails, so the idea of Twitter is so unthinkable to me. I don’t really understand what it is, it’s this weird enigma that people talk about. And it’s fine, I respect that, but no, I will never get a Twitter.“And if you ever see a Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram that says it’s me; it most certainly is not”.After Grimshaw commented that this was the most serious answer any of the cast members had given all interview, Lawrence said:“I had that one locked and loaded … it’s because the internet has scorned so much that I feel like it’s like, that girl in high school, that I’m like: ‘oh you wanna talk about her? Yeah I’ll do that. I’m gonna take my hoops off, I’m ready to go’.”In September, Lawrence was one of the celebrities caught up in widespreadhacking incident– the so-called Fappening – which resulted in leaked nude photographs of, among others, Rihanna and Kate Upton.Breaking her silence on the leak in November, she said it was “not a scandal”, but a “sex crime”.“It is a sexual violation. It’s disgusting. The law needs to be changed, and we need to change. That’s why these web sites are responsible. Just the fact that somebody can be sexually exploited and violated, and the first thought that crosses somebody’s mind is to make a profit from it.“It’s so beyond me. I just can’t imagine being that detached from humanity. I can’t imagine being that thoughtless and careless and so empty inside”, shetoldVanity Fair.The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part I is the penultimate installment of the Hunger Games film franchise, based on the wildly popular books by Suzanne Collins about a dystopian world.•Nude celebrity picture leak looks like phishing or email account hack
Microsoft; Xbox One; £45; Pegi rating 18+Even though the games industry is by far the youngest star in the pop culture firmament, there’s still room enough in it for nostalgia. Usually, the retro scene operates in a determinedly underground space – forty-somethings recreating bygone days by trawling eBay for Sega Mega CD classics; Nintendo slipping its back catalogue on the eShop; entire libraries of 16bit games added to shady emulator sitesHalo: The Master Chief Collection, however, represents a very upfront form of reminiscence. On the one hand, it shamelessly invites us to wallow in the past; on on the other, it’s one of the biggest Christmas blockbusters for Microsoft’s shiny new Xbox One.There’s no doubt that the ambition of Halo: The Master Chief Collection vastly outstrips any previous retro remake – indeed its budget probably matches most brand new projects. Developer 343 Industries (keeper of the Halo flame since creator Bungie bowed out to make a date with Destiny) has curated it with plenty of love and not a little skill. And it really has been curated: stick Halo: the Master Chief Collection’s single disk in your Xbox One, and it gives you the full single- and multiplayer elements of Halo: Combat Evolved Anniversary, Halo 2 Anniversary and Halo 3 and 4. Plus an awful lot more.2011’s remaster of the original game, Halo: Combat Evolved Anniversary, along with Halo 3 and Halo 4, have received light makeovers for The Master Chief Collection, each upscaling the graphics resolution commensurate with the jump to the Xbox One. But the element of the package that will most excite Halo geeks is Halo 2: Anniversary.Created especially for this release, it’s a ground-up remastering job, with stunningly updated cut-scenes. As with Halo: Combat Evolved Anniversary, you can switch between Halo 2 Anniversary’s original graphics and the remastered version at any point in the game. Surprisingly, the play experience feels very similar when you revert to the original graphics, even with the sudden reduction in draw-distance.343 Industries hasn’t just chucked the four main Halo games in a box and left us to get on with it. Sure, you can choose the single-player campaign of each title , and play through them in sequence. But the development team has also added a great new way to access that vast stash of material more interestingly.Playlists group together missions, arranged thematically. So you might, for example, choose Halo 2 Anniversary’s Playlists and find all the missions involving vehicles, or all the boss-battles, in one chunk. Best of all are the cross-game Playlists, which include such gems as the chance to play through the whole quadrilogy uninterrupted, or to play every single mission featuring the Flood, or to play all of Master Chief’s epic end-of-game escapes.The origins of online playIn the early days of the Xbox, it was Halo, not Call of Duty and its ilk, that turned console-owners onto the joys of playing first-person shooters online, and Halo: The Master Chief Collection takes a kitchen-sink approach as far as multiplayer is concerned. All the maps and modes present and correct, leading to hundreds of options – which, frankly, is pretty bewildering and daunting to navigate unless you have a strong idea of what you like. It could be worse – Halo has always kept the number of online game variants pretty low, and 343 Industries does at least pull out recommended game types.Online performance has been variable so far. There were no detectible latency or connection issues when playing pre-release, but over the last 24-hours we’ve experienced matchmaking delays, which should be solved in the coming days. Certainly, the Master Chief Collection contains all the ingredients for putting Halo firmly back on the map as a multiplayer destination of choice, although it’s difficult to say at this point which iterations of the game, modes and maps the hardcore will gravitate towards.There are other attractions. Halo TV is a sort of video-led web resource for Halo-fanatics, packed with info that fills in obscure characters’ back-stories, adding to the lore surrounding the universe. Cutely, you can access terminals in the game itself which take you to relevant Halo TV material – do a bit of exploration, for example, during the Silent Cartographer mission and you will see what we mean.As a final gesture, the game gives you access to Halo: Nightfall, the live-action TV series produced by Ridley Scott. It’s a little basic in terms of special effects, but does a passable job of filling in the narrative blanks between Halo 4 and 5. On the subject of the latter, Master Chief Collection also allows you to tap into the multiplayer beta when that goes live.If you like games that are so big you can immerse yourselves in them for months, The Master Chief Collection offers excellent value. It’s an absolute monolith of a package, beautifully presented for the 21stcentury. And with the remastered next-gen GTA V due to arrive shortly, it seems that, at least as far as video games are concerned, nostalgia is the future.Halo 5: Guardians – ‘Xbox One allows things we’ve never done before’
The default stance on King’s Candy Crush Saga mobile game in the Guardian’s comments section seems to be “It’s rubbish and cynical, and the people who play it are fools”. It gets quite a kicking whenever we cover it.And yet... Candy Crush Saga has been phenomenally popular, with tens of millions of daily players who don’t give two hoots about online anger over freemium business models or copying older games.You or I may not be a fan of Candy Crush Saga, but our mums, dads, aunts, uncles, cousins and cats (okay, most of the above) are likely to be several hundred levels down its rabbit-hole.There’s a real split in perception between the people who talk about Candy Crush on the Guardian and other websites – who hate it – and the people who are playing it out there in the world and loving it.Anyway, its sequel is out now:Candy Crush Soda Saga. Released yesterday for Android and iOS, it’s still about swapping sweets to make matches, but now with the inclusion of “soda” bottles (i.e. fizzy pop) that fills up the screen to complete each level.Can it repeat the success of Candy Crush Saga – a game so popular and lucrative that it was the single biggest factor in its publisher going public earlier this year? Oris King in danger of being the next Zynga, overworking a formula that – once you’ve given your mobile life up to it once – may put you off starting again?The comments section is open for your views.Also on the tech radar today:Thelatest chart of YouTube channelssorted by how many new subscribers they have, courtesy of OpenSlate and Tubefilter. PewDiePie may have just passed 32m subscribers, but he added another 757,982 in October alone.Apple is going to face a federal lawsuitover complaints that users who switched from iOS to Android stopped getting their text messages. The company has just launched a web tool to sort this out, but the lawsuit will proceed.Mozilla is having a busy week:its latest announcement is a site called MozVR: a virtual reality website about, well, virtual reality websites. “MozVR is where we will share experimental VR Web experiences, provide resources, and showcase work from developers in the growing VR web community,” explains the company.Important news for Windows users:what Ars Technica describesas “a potentially catastrophic vulnerability in virtually all versions of Windows” has been discovered, with a patch already available. The bigger picture: “Tuesday’s disclosure means that every major TLS stack – including Apple SecureTransport , GNUTLS,OpenSSL, NSS, and now Microsoft SChannel – has had a severe vulnerability this year.”Finally, as a more positive follow-up to yesterday’s fears about robots taking our jobs, here’s a beautiful time-lapse animation of Androids having a snog fromAndroid Jones.What else? The comments section is open for your links and thoughts.
Parents are more concerned about their children’s use of social media services than any other online activity, according to a new survey by a US-based digital safety group.The research conducted for the non-profitFamily Online Safety Institute(FOSI) found that social media was the only online activity and technology for which more parents believed the harms outweighed the benefits or were equally balanced.Some 43% of parents thought the negative aspects of their child having a social media account outweighed the benefits, while 31% thought the risks and benefits were about equal. Only 26% thought the benefits were worth the potential risks.Of those parents who said their child did not have a social media account, the proportion who felt the risks outweighed the benefits hit 63%. For those whose children were on sites such as Facebook, the comparable figure was just 26%.Among the 53% of parents who said their child had a social networking account, more than three quarters (78%) have logged on to their child’s account to check their posts.Three quarters of parents are concerned about inappropriate contentJen Hanley, legal and policy director of FOSI, said parents were concerned that their children might “overshare” online by posting personal information that could then not be withdrawn. It also reflected their difficulty in keeping up with the latest app, she added: “Many parents say that now they are on Facebook, their kids are not.”It was the first time that FOSI has specifically examined parental attitudes to their children’s use of technology and online activities.The report stated: “While many parents monitor their children’s online activity and are confident in their ability to do so, the degree to which parents actively oversee their children’s online activities and their confidence in their ability to do so decreases the older their child is.”Referring to children’s use of technology such as smartphones, it said: “While a slight majority thinks the potential benefits outweigh the potential harms, many are ambivalent – regardless of the age of their child.”Just over three quarters (76%) were either very concerned or somewhat concerned about the prospect of their child seeing inappropriate or harmful content online, or companies tracking their child’s online activity for marketing purposes.The prospect of their child communicating with a stranger online was very or somewhat concerning for 69%.More than 70% of parents have checked their children’s textsFor those whose children have a smartphone or mobile device, 71% of parents said they had checked sent and received text messages, and 45% had set limits on the number of messages that could be sent.According to the report, just over half (53%) of parents say they have used parental controls to prevent their child from accessing to certain types of online content and nearly as many (47%) have suspended in-app purchases.Hanley said that FOSI was encouraging more people to use tools such as parental controls to give them more peace of mind about their children’s online activities.Hart Research Associates carried out the study for FOSI. Three focus groups were conducted: one with parents who had children age six to nine; another of parents of 10 to 13-year-olds; and a further group for parents of teenagers between 14 and 17.An online survey of 584 US parents of children aged 6 to 17 who use the net was also conducted.FOSI offers tips forgood digital parenting here.•Is the internet really a dangerous, lawless jungle for children?
It's Wednesday.
Yahoo announced it will pay $640m in cash for video advertising platform Brightroll, its second-biggest purchase under chief executive Marissa Mayer.The internet company has struggled to keep pace with Google and Facebook in ad revenues and growth. Mayer said on Tuesday that the purchase would reinforce the company’s plans in video advertising. Yahoo’s share of the $43.1bn US digital advertising market fell to 5.8% in 2013, according to analyst eMarketer, and is expected to dip again this year.“Video is display 2.0. It’s what brand advertisers love. It’s a format that elegantly and easily transitions from broadcast television to PC to mobile and even to wearables. This is why video is a key part of our strategy,” Mayer said in ablogpost.She said she thought video could reinvent and replace banner advertising, a mainstay of online ads.Brightroll’s platform acts as an intermediary for advertisers and publishers. Advertisers can plan and target video ad campaigns using the service, while publishers use it to add advertising inventory into their content. The service works across web, mobile and connected devices such as TVs.Tech site Techcrunchfirst reportedlast month that Yahoo was in talks with the eight-year-old San Francisco-based company, which services more than 80 of America’s largest advertisers.“Online video advertising is increasingly fragmented across thousands, if not millions, of sites and mobile apps. More so than with traditional broadcast television, advertisers are seeking ways to buy online video advertising at scale across many sites in fewer, simpler transactions,” said Mayer.US digital video advertising will total $5.96bn this year, according to eMarketer, up 56% over 2013. By 2018, that figure is expected to more than double, reaching $12.8bn. Google’s YouTube, the largest player in online video, will make $1.13bn in video ad revenues in the US, accounting for 18.9% of the US digital video ad market.The Brightroll purchase is Yahoo’s first big buy since it sold part of its stake in China’s internet giant Alibaba for $5bn. It is also the largest since Mayerbought Tumblrfor $1.1bn in 2013.
America’s major telecoms and cable companies and business groups came out fighting on Monday after Barack Obama called for tough new regulations for broadband that would protect net neutrality, saying they were “stunned” by the president’s proposals.The presidentcalled for new regulationsto protect “net neutrality” – the principle that all traffic on the internet should be treated equally. His move came as the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) finalises a new set of proposals for regulation after the old rules were overturned by a series of court defeats at the hands of cable and telecom companies.In response, Republican senator Ted Cruz went so far as to call Obama’s proposal for regulating the web “Obamacare for the internet”, saying onTwitter“the internet should not operate at the speed of government.”The powerful National Cable and Telecommunications Association (NCTA), which represents cable companies including Comcast and Time Warner said it was “stunned” by the president’s proposals.“The cable industry strongly supports an open internet, is building an open internet, and strongly believes that over-regulating the fastest growing technology in our history will not advance the cause of internet freedom,” said NCTA president Michael Powell, former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), which is now rewriting the internet rules.The cable and telcoms giants are particularly concerned by Obama’s call for FCC to reclassify consumer broadband service under Title II of the Telecommunications Act. Such a move would reclassify consumer internet as a “common carrier” service – like the telephone – and give the regulator greater power to control prices and services.“We are stunned the president would abandon the longstanding, bipartisan policy of lightly regulating the internet and [call] for extreme Title II regulation,” said Powell.Fred Campbell, former head of wireless communications at the FCC and now executive director of free market tech group Center for Boundless Innovation in Technology said applying Title II to the internet would create “legal uncertainty at home and encourage the efforts of totalitarian regimes abroad to tighten their control over the internet – the 21st Century’s mass media communications system.”Obama’s endorsement “of 1930s era Title II classification would lead to unprecedented government interference in the internet, and would hurt consumers and innovation,” said lobby group Broadband for America.Obama’s statement also set him at loggerheads with David Cohen, the executive vice-president of Comcast, who has been one of the president’s biggest fundraisers.Cohen said the cable company “fully embraces the open internet principles that the president and the chairman of the FCC have espoused” but argued section 706 of the telecommunications act – the regulatory legislation preferred by the cable and telecoms industry “provides more than ample authority to impose those rules”.The president’s move has set the stage for a political showdown in Washington where the cable industry has been left looking flat-footed by a vocal and well- organised grass roots opposition.FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler during an open meeting to receive public comment on proposed open Internet notice.Photograph: Alex Wong/Getty ImagesThe FCC is chaired by Tom Wheeler, a Democrat and former cable lobbyist. There are two Republican members of the five-member board, and both are expected to be staunchly against Obama’s proposals.But their opposition comes after over four million comments were submitted to the FCC about its new internet regulation rules. Analysis has shown the overwhelming majority of submissions called for more regulation, not less.The split is likely to be one of the key battlegrounds afterObama’s midterm election defeats. Mitch McConnell, who will become majority leader in the Senate when the Republicans take control in January, urged the FCC to reject Obama’s comments, saying it amounted to “heavy-handed regulation that will stifle innovation”.The FCC will ultimately decide on its own rules but will face intense political pressure as it finishes drawing them up. Washington sources had expected the proposals to be circulated as soon as this month before a meeting of the FCC in December.A leaked proposal last week suggested a “hybrid” compromise was under discussion which would expand the FCC’s powers to regulate broadband while also allowing a carve out for cable providers to charge more money for fast lanes.In his response to Obama, Wheeler said the FCC has explored a “hybrid” solution but that it had created as many questions as it had answered. “The more deeply we examined the issues around the various legal options, the more it has become plain that there is more work to do,” said Wheeler.
Bandcamplaunched in 2008 as a way for musicians to run their own online stores selling their music, and has since paid out more than $87m to those artists. Now it’s preparing to help them run their own subscription services too.“We’re giving every artist the ability to create a subscription service of their own on the site,” Bandcamp chief executive Ethan Diamond told the Guardian, ahead of announcing the new feature at the SF MusicTech Summit conference today.Artists will be able to set their own price for subscriptions, with all their new music made available to paying fans through Bandcamp’s app as soon as it’s released. “It’s kinda like what U2 and Apple did, except that it’s music that you actually want!” said Diamond.Subscribing fans will still be able to download music files as if they’d bought them individually, but Diamond said that Bandcamp’s mobile app is now being used by hundreds of thousands of people as a way to access all the music they have purchased.“Another element of this is that any artist can choose any number of items from their back catalogue to give to subscribers as a bonus when they subscribe. We have 12 million tracks on the site and 1.6 million albums, so it’s an easy way for artists to start.”Musicians will also be able to choose to release music to subscribers only – either temporarily or permanently – as well as giving them a blanket discount on merchandise that they are selling on their stores.Bandcamp will take the same revenue share as it does for digital sales: 15%, dropping to 10% once an artist reaches $5,000 in sales. Diamond said that in tests of the new subscriptions feature, artists have opted for a range of prices.British band Candy Says, for example, areselling their subscription for £20 a year. “We heard from another label who represents an artist who is really prolific, and for whom they don’t even know what to do with the quantity of music the person is giving them. They were talking about $200 a year,” he said.“We’re excited to open it to everybody and see what happens: I suspect it’ll be all over the map.”‘You just want to support everything that they do’Bandcamp is keen for the new feature to be seen as a way for fans to support artists, at a time when the debate around how musicians make money – particularly from streaming services like Spotify – is more heated than ever.“The whole motivation here is that when you get to a point that you love an artist – when you go from liking them to being a real true fan of theirs – at some point you just want everything they make. You just want to support everything that they do,” he said.“As an artist, serving that type of fan can be really challenging: you can talk about a new release, but you’re competing with somebody’s social media firehose – with sponsored posts and their 1,000 closest Facebook friends. So how do you even get the information to them that there’s a new release?”Artists will also be able to use Bandcamp’s app to post messages and photos to their subscribers, which will appear at the top of those fans’ news feeds within the app.Diamond suggested this will be an artist-friendly alternative to social networks like Facebook, where posts from a musician’s page may only be shown to a minority of their fans.“We’re trying to create a channel for artists and their biggest fans where they aren’t having to compete with the other things,” he said. “There’ll be no ‘boost a post’ nonsense like Facebook. We’re not going to do anything like that.”Bandcamp’s new feature is the latest attempt to offer musicians a way to earn a regular income from their fans. One alternative iscrowdfunding service Patreon, where fans sign up to pay small amounts whenever a creator – musicians, but also YouTubers, filmmakers and journalists – releases a new piece of content.Another service,Drip.fm, focuses more on independent labels, with clients including Domino Records, Ninja Tune and Sub Pop using it to run monthly subscriptions for fans. It has also attracted a few independent artists, including Mike Doughty and Christopher Willits.Diamond compared Bandcamp’s new feature to the one-off crowdfunding campaigns found on sites like Kickstarter and Indiegogo, with their rewards for donations made by fans.“When I’ve contributed to a crowdfunding campaign and got something in the mail for it as a reward, I’ve always felt surprised. It was almost unnecessary,” he said. “I don’t want the artists I love to be knitting me beer koozies! I want their music. I’m not interested in funding studio time for just one album, I’m interested in funding them generally.”Musician Zoe Keating is one of Bandcamp’s big success stories.Photograph: PRDiamond also hopes that Bandcamp subscriptions will show that streaming music – as used in the company’s mobile apps – can help rather than harm artists’ careers, in the wake of the row overTaylor Swift pulling her albums from Spotify, and wider discussion about that service’s impact on musicians.“The subscription streaming services are presenting a false dichotomy between downloads and streaming, as they’re conflating the idea that downloads versus streaming is the exact same as saying downloads versus subscription-based streaming,” said Diamond.“What they’re actually saying is ‘our particular model of streaming – subscription-based – is the future, and anybody that doesn’t agree with that is living in the past’. The reality is that streaming is of course the future: people are going to download less and less. But that particular model of subscription-based streaming isn’t the only model. There is this other model where you support the artist.”Diamond added that he thinks the latter is what Apple is working on as it prepares to relaunch its recently-acquired Beats Music streaming service in 2015. “I suspect Beats and iTunes radio will become the discovery system for ultimately making a purchase and getting access to your music,” he said.‘We’re going to give artists complete control’But Bandcamp is evolving in that direction as well. The latest release of its mobile app allows users to listen to anything in its catalogue twice before being prompted to pay to add it to their collection, for example.“You get a little nag saying it’s time to support this artist, and get unlimited streaming plus the satisfaction of knowing you’re directly supporting the artist,” said Diamond.“So you can use the app as a discovery tool, but at a certain point it’s saying if you want to add this to your collection, you need to buy it. And we’re going to give artists complete control over the number of times something can be streamed before they get that prompt.”Bandcamp’s $87m of payouts to artists may be small compared to the$2bn in payouts to labels and publishers reported by Spotify, but Diamond said it is an increasingly meaningful platform for independent artists, paying out $3.1m more every month.Musician Zoe Keating’s announcement in February thatshe’d earned $38,195 from iTunes and $25,575 from Bandcampin 2013 provided some evidence to back that up, but Diamond hopes that adding artist subscriptions will bolster his company’s case.“We want Bandcamp to be an important part of how any artist develops a sustainable career, and subscriptions can be a big part of that.”•Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube and Spotify?
