"Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale computing easier for developers," saysAmazon."Just as Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) enables storage in the cloud, Amazon EC2 enables 'compute' in the cloud. Amazon EC2's simple web service interface allows you to obtain and configure capacity with minimal friction. It provides you with complete control of your computing resources and lets you run on Amazon's proven computing environment. Amazon EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and boot new server instances to minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements change. Amazon EC2 changes the economics of computing by allowing you to pay only for capacity that you actually use."Comment: It's a beta.
As expected, Valve has been showing off its latest wares at Leipzig and helpfully, Evil Avatar has collected togethersome shaky YouTube videosof Half-Life 2 Episode 2, Team Fortress 2 andPortal. The latter is looking like the brain-twisting head mess that Valve's ownofficial demopromised us several weeks ago. A player is seen blasting holes in walls to open up portals in the ceilings of other rooms. We also see him throwing objects about then opening portals so that the object falls through and then back into the same room... I'm confused just writing about it.Looks like Metroid Prime with a bit of cult sci-fi flick, Cube, and, of course, a dash of HumanHead's FPS,Prey, which also features hot portal action. Importantly, it's still got the sexy, semi-robotic voice-over from Valve's teaser. Intriguing stuff.Apologies if you don't have full internet access. You'll just have to wait til you get home...
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
My 83-year-old mother is prevented from realistic use of the internet because she cannot read the print on almost every web page. Is there any way of reconfiguring Explorer or Windows? John BrittonThere are several approaches, and you will need to experiment to find the best solution. Start by making her Windows text larger. Right-click on the desktop and select Properties, open the tab marked Settings, and click the Advanced button at the bottom. This will give you access to the DPI (dots per inch) setting, which is usually 96. You can select Large size (120DPI) or Custom setting. Alternatively, go to the tab marked Appearance, which lets you change only the font size. The options are Normal, Large and Extra Large.Windows also has several accessibility features, which you can set using the Accessibility Wizard. (Look in the Accessories folder under the Start menu.) The tools include Magnifier, to enlarge parts of the screen, and Narrator, which converts text to speech. You can run these quickly by hitting Windows Key-U. Microsoft has a guide called Windows XP Accessibility Resources athttp://www.microsoft.com/enable/products/windowsxp/. Apple has a similar guide athttp://www.apple.com/accessibility/.You can also set your mother's browser to use a larger text size. In theory, this is simply a matter of going to View and choosing Text Size in both Internet Explorer and Firefox. However, IE has an error in its text size handling, and some sites fail to allow for this.Both IE and Firefox have further settings if you go to the Tools menu and select Options or Internet Options. In IE, click the Accessibility button. In Firefox, click on General and go to Fonts &amp; Colors. This lets you set a minimum font size, and choose your own fonts. Also, Firefox and Opera can easily zoom web pages to make them more readable, even if the web designer has fixed the font size. This is beyond IE, though you can install aZoom Page Faveletthat helps.Microsoft has a page called Internet Explorer 6 Accessibility Resources athttp://www.microsoft.com/enable/products/ie6/. However, on the whole, I think Firefox and Opera are now much more accessible.Finally, there are lots of Windows screen readers and "talking browsers" that will read text aloud. These include Window-Eyes, Jaws, Thunder, and Natural Reader. Opera has this feature built in. Given the number of malware and "social engineering" attacks on IE users, a change of browser makes sense, so I recommend getting your mother to try Opera.Backchat: David Goldstein adds: "Vision Australia, the UK equivalent is RNIB, has a publication called Computer Adjustments in Microsoft Windows to assist people who are vision impaired in accessing their computer. It's available from its website athttp://visionaustralia.org.au/info.aspx?page=894."Crossword compiler Keith Parker has found a UK source for Zoomcaps key labels: IC-Online Ltd (www.ic-online.co.uk). He says: "I phoned them on 01226 762513 and received their comprehensive catalogue in the next morning's post. It contained everything for the visually restricted: keyboard stickers, laptop stickers, keyboard gloves, large print keyboards, computer accessories and much else for me and for people with even greater problems than mine."Jonathan White responds: "Unfortunately the ZoomCaps stickers are designed for the US keyboard layout, so there are issues with the position of the @ and # signs, together with the omission of the £ sign. Kid Glove (www.kidglove.co.uk) produces keyboard stickers in the UK keyboard layout in various contrasts at £10 a sheet. However, wherever possible, I would always recommend learning touch-typing skills over the 'hunt and peck' method."
I have Windows XP Home Edition with the NTFS file system, but there is also a section of the hard disk that is FAT32. This is completely inaccessible to me (although I am the administrator), and to any clean-up program I know of. What is it for? Maurice B LineIt's increasingly common for manufacturers to ship PCs with one or more DOS (FAT32) partitions as well as the NTFS (New Technology File System) from Windows NT/2000/XP. The first will be a small partition at the start of the drive. This generally holds diagnostic utilities that will be used if something bad happens to your Windows system. A second partition may be added at the end of the drive. This could include a back-up image of the original Windows installation, to make it simple to revert the PC to its factory condition without using a CD. This will obviously need to be larger -- perhaps 2GB to 4GB.You can see your drive set-up by right-clicking on the My Computer icon and clicking Manage to run the Computer Management utility. Go to the Storage section and click Disk Management.My current Dell drive starts with a 63MB FAT partition, which is followed by the NTFS drive, then a 2.94GB "ghost" partition.
We have three computers, all in bedrooms, connected via a wireless router in one of the bedrooms. We have heard that for health reasons it is wise to switch off electronic devices at night. Is it wise to switch off the router at night, or are we being unnecessarily cautious? Susan TomesNowadays everything is considered a health risk, but I don't know of any evidence against the use of Wi-Fi. It's much less of a potential hazard than a mobile phone or microwave oven, because it operates at a much lower power level, and is usually used at much greater distances. (Radiation follows the inverse square law, so doubling the distance gives one quarter of the intensity -- think of warming your hands with a candle.) Also, Wi-Fi is a "bursty" system, so any risks are lower when it's not transferring data.
Those Blackberry owners must feel pretty damn pleased with themselves as they churn out countless emails on their machines. Sat smug on the bus, walking smugly along the street, they don't care - they're emailing, they're on the web, they're in touch with the whole bloody world.Sadly, I daren't look at the multitude of features I will never experience. Never will I feel the joy of emails while shopping for ties and cufflinks, nor check my inbox while on the toilet. No, I will never be able to use the enigmatic Blackberry, because its designers have deemed my mitts to be a gross caricature of a real person's hands.I'm not a mutated freak. My fingers are smaller than say, chipolata sausages, but as I attempt to tap "h" on one in the phone shop, what I end up seeing on the screen is more like "nghyb". Maybe there are five-year-old kids who escort Blackberry users wherever they go, who are equipped with the nimble fingers needed to tackle those buttons.Those irritatingly tiny keys are only a few steps away from of those reset buttons on the back of calculators, requiring the dexterity of a surgeon to access them. As for those women with long nails, they may as well return to carrier pigeon.Similarly, if I play a game on my Nintendo DS that requires a smidgen of precision on its touch-screen, I have to use the stylus without exception. Yes, that's probably why it comes with the console, but a few simplistic menu boxes that look like they're finger-navigable really aren't.I'm all for miniaturisation. I can now carry a mobile phone wherever I go without lugging a car battery on my back for the privilege. In my other pocket, I can have a music player rammed with enough music to last several days.But I want to be able to at least marginally control what I'm doing. Apple seems to be doing it right; the keys on its latest MacBook are slightly more generous to the sausage-fingered, and there's only one button on the latest iPod, so even I can't miss.If a mobile or MP3 player is so minute that it interferes with the way I use it, then it's not worth the effort of making it smaller. In a tight situation, if a thumb smudge means the difference between calling a mate, or accidentally calling Mum, then I may prefer to carry round a mobile the size of a small car.I guess it won't fit in my pocket, but at least I'll be able to use it.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Wi-Fi doesn't flyAfter six years, Boeing has decided to drop Connexion, its in-flight internet service. The company says: "The market for this service has not materialised."More music to goIn the US, SanDisk has announced the first portable MP3 player with 8GB of storage. The Sansa e280 will ship next month and will sell for about $250.http://tinyurl.com/n7lkcNoise reduction for PC callsSoliCall has released a free beta version of software that reduces background noise (eg kids playing) in VoIP calls made using Skype, MSN Messenger and Google Talk.www.solicall.com/Go ballisticQuentin Diduck, a student at the University of Rochester, has come up with the Ballistic Deflection Transistor (BDT), which could lead to 3THz (3,000GHz) processors. The US National Science Foundation has given the university $1.1 million to develop a prototype.http://tinyurl.com/px7pqOh the ironyWikipedia's page on Vandalism has been vandalised.http://tinyurl.com/fnfr3Top subjectsAccording to McAfee, the most popular spam subject lines in July were: Message from eBay Member, PayPal Notification and Restore Your Account Access.SuSE ThinkPadNovell has done a deal with China's Lenovo (formerly IBM's PC division) to preload its SuSE version of Linux on the ThinkPad T60p notebook PC. US prices start at $3,099 for a 14-inch model.Milton Keynes leadsMilton Keynes will be the first UK city to get WiMax wireless broadband coverage. The system will be installed by Pipex and Intel.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The PC hard drive could soon be an endangered species. As the price of Flash memory crashes, it is being used in areas traditionally occupied by magnetic storage systems. USB Flash keys are fast becoming the portable storage medium of choice, and a growing number of digital music players (such as Apple's iPod nano) use Flash memory rather than miniature hard drives. Flash memory - specifically, that using NAND logic gates in its transistors, rather than NOR gates, which is slower - is frequently used in games consoles, digital cameras, digital camcorders and mobile phones. But could it really replace a computer hard drive?Some are trying. In Korea, Samsung has launched two computer products that use solid state drives (SSDs) in place of the conventional magnetic version. Both the NT-Q1-SSD ultra mobile PC (about &pound;1,300) and the NT-Q30-SSD (around &pound;1,900), a 12.1-inch screen notebook, have a 32GB NAND Flash drive. Samsung says there are many benefits to putting an SSD inside a computer, claiming an SSD can read data at 57MB/s and write at 32MB/s, significantly faster than a hard drive's typical 24MB/s, thus offering faster access to applications and slicker multi-tasking.The boot-up time for Windows XP is said to be 25% to 50% faster and an SSD is up to 60% lighter than a comparable 1.8in hard drive. It's also more robust - Samsung claims that the SSD can withstand deceleration forces (that is, being dropped) double what would cripple a standard hard drive. It uses far less power (0.5W when busy, compared to a hard drive's 2W) - significant, since hard drives use 10% to 20% of a laptop's battery power. And finally, the lack of moving parts means Samsung's SSD-enabled PC can operate in complete silence.Hard drives are not dead yetWith benefits like these, you'd think that PC manufacturers would be racing to replace magnetic disk drives with solid state versions. But they're not. John Rydning, manager for hard disk drives and components at research company IDC, says: "To borrow a quote from Mark Twain, the death of hard disk drives has been greatly exaggerated. Hard disk drives will continue to provide the lowest cost random-access, rewritable storage for the foreseeable future. The biggest challenge for Flash drives is cost."As IDC data shows, on a cost-per-gigabyte of storage, hard disk drives win hands down - even though the price gap is narrowing. Last year, a gigabyte of NAND Flash cost around 33 times more than that for a small hard drive used in portable devices. This year, the price gap is projected to be around 19:1. It's an impressive reduction, but Flash has always to play catch-up with magnetic drives as each successive generation of PC offers larger storage capacity."The disadvantage is cost," admits Richard Walsh, Samsung Europe's senior manager for Flash marketing, "but we're targeting our solid state products at the professional executive who's looking for a smaller computer - a kind of 'super Blackberry'. It's for carrying your business applications and not for storing movies or family photos. But NAND Flash prices are falling every year."In an article written last November for the International Disk Drive Equipment and Materials Association (IDEMA), research group Gartner described the uphill task faced by Flash drive technology to usurp the magnetic disk drive. The PC market "currently uses 80GB hard disk drives that cost major OEMs [original equipment manufacturers] less than $50 ... with 32GB NAND Flash chips likely to cost [them] more than $100 until 2009, at which point, a 500-750GB hard disk drive will cost less than $50." Gartner described how the industry had delivered 29.9m hard drives in 1990, 375m in 2005 and is expected to ship more than 650m in 2010.Joe Unsworth, a senior research analyst at Gartner, says: "If you're looking at drives that are 1.8in or larger, then the cost-per-gigabyte difference is so great, compared with what Flash will reach in the next five to 10 years. Hard drives measuring 1in and less will be under pressure from Flash. But we think Flash will coexist with larger disk drives."PC users will get their first chance to see this coexistence in action next year, when a new generation of hybrid hard disk drives (HHDDs) are launched by companies such as Seagate and Samsung. An HHDD combines a magnetic disk drive with a NAND Flash cache. Data and applications are stored in the cache, providing much faster access to the processor. The disk only needs to spin perhaps once every 10 or 20 minutes, when the solid state cache is full and needs to put some of its contents on to the hard drive.Joni Clark, Seagate's product marketing manager for notebook drives, says there are three key benefits to using an HHDD: "It's more power efficient, because the hard disk drive hardly spins, and so you get longer battery life. Second, it's faster, so you can expect faster boot-up times, faster resume [from Windows hibernation mode] and faster access to applications. Finally, because the hard drive spins much less, a laptop [drive] is less likely to get damaged if it's bumped."Manufacturers of HHDDs say they could give boot-up times up to 20% faster than on a conventional hard disk drive; a 20% faster resume time; give access time to applications four times faster, and extend battery life by up to 30 minutes. Samsung has demonstrated a prototype HHDD, but Seagate has announced its first product, the Momentus 5400 PSD, which will offer up to 160GB of magnetic storage combined with a 128MB or 256MB NAND cache - the company is still working on finding the optimum cache size for an HHDD.Other manufacturers are expected to launch HHDDs, not least because it is an open standard, although they will probably offer their own variants - Samsung has developed OneNAND technology, said to have a sustained data read speed four times faster than conventional NAND memory. But as Clark notes: "It's not a case of just adding Flash to a hard drive; you need an operating system to interact with the drive." It's no coincidence that the first HHDDs are due in early 2007 - the expected date for the consumer launch of Microsoft's Windows Vista - because manufacturers have been working with the software giant for years on HHDD technology."I believe Microsoft saw certain limitations in the hardware," says Walsh. "Microsoft recognised the bottlenecks and saw hybrid disk drives as a means of improving the computer." Wes Brewer, Sandisk's vice-president for consumer products, adds: "Vista is about five times bigger than XP, and what comes along with that large size is a speed issue, even with faster CPUs. We've been working with Microsoft on ways to speed up booting and application loading by complementing the hard drive with Flash."Vista is ready for HHDDVista will automatically recognise when a device is using a HHDD and will activate a feature, ReadyDrive, which is designed to take advantage of the technology. Vista will also offer a feature called ReadyBoost, where a Flash USB key can be used instead of additional RAM chips to boost the available amount of PC memory (up to 4GB).The chip maker Intel also wants to use Flash memory to improve PC performance, but rather than opt for HHDD technology, plans to put Flash memory elsewhere on a PC. The company's next generation portable platform (codenamed Santa Rosa) will include a technology called Robson, which adds up to 4GB of Flash to the motherboard."You're talking about a component the size of a fingernail, so that someone using a cell phone today could use a highly mobile PC as an alternative," says Brewer. Meanwhile Intel, Sony, the memory manufacturer Micron and others have formed the Open NAND Flash Interface Working Group, which aims to develop specifications to make it easier for manufacturers to integrate NAND Flash with computer and consumer devices.But besides cost, there are other obstacles for Flash memory replacing hard drives. Flash memory is typically guaranteed for around 1m read/write cycles, which sounds a lot, but in the context of the working life of a PC (which is continually writing, erasing or rewriting data) is not. So designers have to use techniques known as wear-levelling to shift data around the Flash memory block to reduce the risk of data error. "We can design around the problem," says Walsh.Even so, Gartner believes that hard disk drives will continue to be the main storage medium for uses requiring more than 20GB for at least the next few years. "Set-top boxes, media centre PCs, home servers and other large storage devices will continue to use hard disk drives," says Unsworth. "But because of the advantages Flash offers portable PC users, we'll see lots of notebooks with Flash." But even then, Unsworth has a warning: "Companies selling these products are going to have to have a good marketing campaign to help people understand just what the benefits are."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One question has been bugging me for the past couple of weeks. Why has nobody told Steve Jobs, who earlier this month previewed the next version of Apple's OS X operating system, named "Leopard", that there is no way Microsoft could add anything he showed off then to Vista in time for its release around (let's be generous) January next year?I ask because Jobs claimed that the Leopard demonstration (online athttp://tinyurl.com/fc8o2or read Engadget's report athttp://tinyurl.com/qanbn) was abridged to give the people in Redmond no more chances to copy Apple. That, he claims, is what has been happening as OS X has moved forward in the past five years - that the folk in Microsoft just mimic whatever comes out of Apple's Cupertino campus.As if. Sure, a chief executive should talk up the company's products, but the reality is that Vista is, as they say, "feature-complete", and all that's happening now is tweaking around the user interface edges and ironing out bugs. As I write, the first "release candidate" of Vista - a version meant to be almost good enough to box and sell - is hotly expected by many news sites. Once you get to that stage, you don't add anything. There was no chance of doing that in the week since Jobs spoke. As anyone who's done any programming knows, you cannot add things to an operating system just because you saw it on TV. If it were that easy, we'd be controlling computers with a wave of the hand, like Tom Cruise in the film Minority Report. After all, that came out years ago.So why didn't Jobs show off more of Leopard? Three possibilities come to mind. First, it's so unfinished - buggy, crash-prone and ugly - that it would turn people off. This is highly unlikely, since every attendee at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference got a copy of the beta of Leopard (which has duly appeared on BitTorrent, and is being blogged in detail athttp://impulsivehighlighters.blogspot.com/). Or second, there isn't much else to Leopard; it's a consolidation release, and the "secret features" are twiddles that make no difference. Third, it's a ploy to keep Apple fans bubbling with excitement into January, when Jobs is expected to give another keynote at MacWorld in San Francisco. Then, he'll be aiming to divert attention from Vista's imminent release by showing off some real (and perhaps even interesting) new features.Knowing Jobs' talent for marketing, one has to feel that the answer contains some of the third option. Vista will come with a huge marketing blitz; Apple has been up against that before, when the first update to OS X appeared in late September 2001, a month ahead of Windows XP.But the second option has some weight. What was shown of Leopard didn't thrill. Time Machine, a sort of automated backup-and-restore system, might look good on a stage, but those trying it are discovering all sorts of caveats. Tabs in iChat for instant messaging and multi-user calendars are hardly revolutionary either.But I've learnt, in five years of using OS X, that I rarely end up using the stuff Jobs shows off in keynotes. I don't use Expose, rarely use Spotlight or Dashboard (the "widgets" substratum, like Yahoo's Konfabulator), nor Automator, nor iChat, nor Safari. For me, the single must-have feature Apple's engineers could build into Leopard would be speed. But somehow I doubt that's one of the "secret features" under lock and key in Cupertino. Meanwhile, Apple fans will keep bubbling, wondering what the "secret" is. Sometimes, it's that there is no secret. Just don't tell anyone, OK?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Easier readingMy 83-year-old mother is prevented from realistic use of the internet because she cannot read the print on almost every web page. Is there any way of reconfiguring Explorer or Windows?John BrittonJack Schofield replies:There are several approaches, and you will need to experiment to find the best solution. Start by making her Windows text larger. Right-click on the desktop and select Properties, open the tab marked Settings, and click the Advanced button at the bottom. This will give you access to the DPI (dots per inch) setting, which is usually 96. You can select Large size (120DPI) or Custom setting. Alternatively, go to the tab marked Appearance, which lets you change only the font size. The options are Normal, Large and Extra Large.Windows also has several accessibility features, which you can set using the Accessibility Wizard. (Look in the Accessories folder under the Start menu.) The tools include Magnifier, to enlarge parts of the screen, and Narrator, which converts text to speech. You can run these quickly by hitting Windows Key-U. Microsoft has a guide called Windows XP Accessibility Resources athttp://tinyurl.com/nzgpy. Apple has a similar guide atwww.apple.com/accessibility/.You can also set your mother's browser to use a larger text size. In theory, this is simply a matter of going to View and choosing Text Size in both Internet Explorer and Firefox. However, IE has an error in its text size handling, and some sites fail to allow for this.Both IE and Firefox have further settings if you go to the Tools menu and select Options or Internet Options. In IE, click the Accessibility button. In Firefox, click on General and go to Fonts &amp; Colors. This lets you set a minimum font size, and choose your own fonts. Also, Firefox and Opera can easily zoom web pages to make them more readable, even if the web designer has fixed the font size. This is beyond IE, though you can install a Zoom Page Favelet (http://tinyurl.com/q5776)that helps.Microsoft has a page called Internet Explorer 6 Accessibility Resources athttp://tinyurl.com/nnw9s. However, on the whole, I think Firefox and Opera are now much more accessible.Finally, there are lots of Windows screen readers and "talking browsers" that will read text aloud. These include Window-Eyes, Jaws, Thunder, and Natural Reader. Opera has this feature built in. Given the number of malware and "social engineering" attacks on IE users, a change of browser makes sense, so I recommend that your mother try Opera.Hidden hard driveI have Windows XP Home Edition with the NTFS file system, but there is also a section of the hard disc that is FAT32. This is completely inaccessible to me (although I am the administrator), and to any clean-up program I know of. What is it for?Maurice B. LineJS:It's increasingly common for manufacturers to ship PCs with one or more DOS (FAT32) partitions as well as the NTFS (New Technology File System) from Windows NT/2000/XP. The first will be a small partition at the start of the drive. This generally holds diagnostic utilities that will be used if something bad happens to your Windows system. A second partition may be added at the end of the drive. This could include a back-up image of the original Windows installation, to make it simple to revert the PC to its factory condition without using a CD. This will obviously need to be larger - perhaps 2GB to 4GB.You can see your drive set-up by right-clicking on the My Computer icon and clicking Manage to run the Computer Management utility. Go to the Storage section and click Disk Management.Wireless wavesWe have three computers, all in bedrooms, connected via a wireless router in one of the bedrooms. We have heard that for health reasons it is wise to switch off electronic devices at night. Is it wise to switch off the router at night, or are we being unnecessarily cautious?Susan TomesJS:Nowadays everything is considered a health risk, but I don't know of any evidence against the use of Wi-Fi. It's much less of a potential hazard than a mobile phone or microwave oven, because it operates at a much lower power level, and is usually used at much greater distances. (Radiation follows the inverse square law, so doubling the distance gives one quarter of the intensity.) Also, Wi-Fi is a "bursty" system, so any risks are lower when it's not transferring data.Backchat&middot;Last week, I said it was wrong to use your neighbour's Wi-Fi connection without asking permission. Pat Turner points to a BBC News article about a London man fined &pound;500 for doing this - he was using a laptop while sitting in his car (http://tinyurl.com/db7ay).Huw Lyan Thomas says: "A bigger issue with file-sharing movies over a neighbour's unsecured Wi-Fi connection is that you're exposing them to a copyright lawsuit - their IP address will be the one logged against the illicit activity. And file-sharing is not even the most serious crime that could be committed."&middot;An ex-directory reader was horrified to find that her address and phone number were listed online when she bought a .net domain. Lewis Peake says "just enter dummy details". Reading Whois entries shows that many people do.
Yowza. For those who haven't seen theadvertisingspotsfor the forthcomingReservoir Dogscampaign, prepare to scrape your jaws off the floor. The series of short films feature two cute kids in (what initially appear to be) "kid" situations graphically discussing ... things. Sorry to be vague, but they are quite unnerving.These ads, designed to get right up the noses of more conservative elements, are certain to cause the controversy publishers EIDOS are hoping will boost the sales of the console game. I can only assume that they're trying to be the new Take 2 now that the publisher'sstock is plummeting.Reservoir Dogs was always going to be scrutinised, and now the attempts by some in the industry to brush it under the carpet for fear that it would shed bad light on the public perception of computer games are truly wasted efforts.One final point - I thought it was illegal for child actors to perform actions/say lines that would give broadcast output an 18+ rating, which is why satirical geniusChris Morrisgot into so much trouble for scenes in his cult comedy series Jam. I assume the same doesn't apply to Internet campaigns? Any insight welcomed.
Well, the war is finally over: and the mobile phone has emerged as the winner on two key fronts. For most buyers it will be the device of choice for playing music and taking photographs. I have been trying out some of the latest mobile phones and there has been a big increase in the quality and quantity of the tracks they play, while mobile phone cameras - especially with the release of 3- and 5-megapixel models, such as the Nokia N80 and the LG KG920 - are now as good as the standard digital cameras of a couple of years ago.There will always be lots of people wanting dedicated cameras or iPods, but the majority of people in future will opt to have all these functions on one device rather than two or three. They already are. It is no coincidence that in the first quarter, when Apple suffered a sharp drop in iPod sales (blaming it, implausibly, on seasonal factors), the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry said that half of all digital music sold in 2005 went directly to mobile phones (including ringtones).The decline of iPod sales continued in the second quarter, while sales of music-enabled mobile phones soared. Nokia alone, a late entrant to music, plans to ship 80m music phones this year (almost double last year's iPod sales). Sony Ericsson is enjoying success with its popular Walkman phone, as is Motorola with its Razr, while LG's Chocolate was Carphone Warehouse's biggest ever seller.The iPod remains an amazing phenomenon but its heydays are over unless, as happened before, it reinvents itself with a new line such as a much-rumoured cameraphone. Tomi Ahonen, a mobile expert, claims that with a fall in total market share (of players and phones) from 80% to 14% in 18 months, the iPod is "wilting away before our eyes".Although smart phones tend to be branded for music or photos, most are both. If you want to store more music, you can buy a bigger memory card.Among new devices I have been testing, the eagerly waited LG KG920 - a 5-megapixel camera phone (and 4x digital zoom) complete with MP3 player - took some getting used to. An initial blurriness on some of the first pics I took was apparently down to the fact that you must keep the camera still for a second or two after clicking the shutter. This is not an instant plus for for a "citizen journalist" wanting to capture sudden incidents, especially as you have to release the lens cap first and make sure your fingers are not covering the lens. It weighs 120g, with a good sized screen within a silver casing, and a beautifully engineered facility where the bottom half swivels round so the viewing screen is on the same side as the lens; the point of which completely escapes me except to take pictures of oneself.But this is a powerful device that removes the need for a solo camera for most shots. Less ambitious buyers could settle for the company's other offering, the LG 400 3g camera/music phone weighing only 100g. It takes photos that compare well with those of its big brother (flickr.com/photos/shakespearesmonkeyhas samples of five cameras) though it is not LG's flagship music phone. I had difficulty synching it to my PC, but it was easy to transfer (non-protected) tracks from a computer or phone using the Bluetooth wireless feature and even easier to download them, at 99p a pop, from 3's online library.Even better was Nokia's 3g camera/music phone, the N80 (120g), with a sliding keyboard like the LG 400 but with a 3-megapixel camera and a wireless link to the web plus a friendly Symbian interface. The cell phone has advanced amazingly in 10 years, during which it has been cannibalising almost everything in sight. As the age of the mobile gathers pace, one can only guess at what it will be doing 10 years hence.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..It's not always good to shareA government plan for data sharing between public bodies threatens to further undermine civil liberties in the wake of the ID cards debacle, says Michael Cross.It's a struggle to get data out of councilsSome local authorities are more than happy to put data online, while others need a bit of prodding with the FoI act, finds SA Mathieson.Metcalfe's law under attack as experts square upYou're less valuable than you used to be - at least, when you join a network, say Jack Schofield and Charles Arthur.Flash memory ready to put hard drives in a spinFlash memory is getting cheaper all the time. Does this mean the end of the hard drive as we know it, asks George Cole?Scientists spin brand new skinGrowing cells on scaffolds using polymer science could revolutionise the skin grafting process, reports Michael Pollitt.Welcome to the game of moral dilemmaGamesblog: Aleks Krotoski: Oh God," I thought, "what do I do if he looks up at me with his innocent 11-year-old eyes and says, 'Please miss, I'd like to buy your used PC version of the controversial 18+ title Grand Theft Auto. Here's my fiver.'"GamesYakuza | Darkstar One | Practical Intelligence QuotientNewly Asked Questions:What are those government videos doing on YouTube?Showing that the Central Office of Information is trying anything it can to get in touch with today's school-leavers.What does online piracy really tell us?What people want, and in what form they want it.Dump your iPod, the mobile's taking overVictor Keegan: Well, the war is finally over: and the mobile phone has emerged as the winner on two key fronts. For most buyers it will be the device of choice for playing music and taking photographs.Fear not, Steve, your secrets really aren't worth stealingCharles Arthur: One question has been bugging me for the past couple of weeks.TechnobileMat Smith: The Blackberry's buttons seem to be designed for people with the nimble fingers of a five-year-oldRead this week's letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesWi-Fi doesn't fly | More music to go | Noise reduction for PC calls | Go ballistic | Oh the irony | Top subjects | SuSE ThinkPad | Milton Keynes leadsAsk JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.
YakuzaPlayStation 2, &pound;39.99, Sega, 4 starsThis third-person action adventure game has crept into the shops with such a lack of fanfare that it comes a surprise to discover that it's good - even though it is produced by Toshihiro Nagoshi, of Super Monkey Ball fame. It casts you as Kiryu Kazuma, a former rising star of the Yakuza who emerges from a 10-year stretch for killing his boss to find that all the Yakuza families are after him, and the cop who locked him up is his only ally. A convoluted but enjoyable storyline, a beautifully realised Tokyo and an unpolished but thrillingly responsive street-fighting engine combine to create a most enjoyable game that blends the best aspects of the epic but sedate Shenmue and the superannuated arcade favourite Double Dragon. One for the connoisseurs.Darkstar OnePC, &pound;29.99, Action line/Ascerony, 3 starsDespite hushed reverence for the seminal Elite, freeform space operas have never sold particularly well. Darkstar One gives you control of a single spaceship that can be upgraded as you travel the cosmos, fighting or out-stealing pirates while unravelling the game's single-player campaign. You can either cruise around making your own fortune, or pick up missions at space stations that take the form of escorting, exploring or trading. The interface is easy and instinctive, allowing fluid combat almost from the off - although production niggles and occasional glitches will need some early patching. Darkstar's real problem is longevity, with the ease of piracy all but negating the need to buy any upgrades. Games like this need a major shot in the storyline to keep them from getting repetitive and Darkstar's thin, linear plot fails to deliver it. Still, it's an ambitious genre for a small publisher to try, and deserves the chance of a sequel.Practical Intelligence QuotientSony PSP, &pound;19.99, D3, 3 starsYou can blame Nintendo for the current mental workout gaming craze. Their hugely successful Brain Training games have alerted other publishers to the profitable delights of intelligence based gaming. A host of titles are on the way, and one of the first is Practical Intelligence Quotient (PQ) for the PSP. While other brain games involve calculations or word association, PQ simply requires you to move your avatar to the exit of the room. Sounds easy? At first maybe, but it isn't long before the blocks, walls, escalators and other obstacles offer a severe reasoning test. Planning is essential and speed is of the essence. Unfortunately the camera is awkward, making things unnecessarily harder. And while Brain Training DS is simple enough to attract all, PQ's 3D manipulation will appeal more to gamers. Stark visuals complete what is a pleasingly different title for the PSP.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Oh God," I thought, "what do I do if he looks up at me with his innocent 11-year-old eyes and says, 'Please miss, I'd like to buy your used PC version of the controversial 18+ title Grand Theft Auto. Here's my fiver.'" I was hocking some of my ancient games at a car boot sale , and this little scamp had made a beeline for the gamebox.Not being a parent, I'd forgotten when I put out my wares that there are tiny people under the age of consent who are protected by ratings schemes. The penny dropped too late, and now I had to deal with the moral consequences.I had three options. One: haggle with the kid until the price was so out of reach that he'd have to save up until he was 18. After all, I'm an adult with years of transactions behind me. Then again, he's in his pester power prime, which could redress the balance.Two: take his &pound;5 and add it to the pot of cash. Business is business. But then I'd lose my personal integrity.Three: tell him I wouldn't sell it to him, but would sell it to his parent or guardian. In other words, pass the buck.I started to panic. "Mmmmmm," I said over-loudly. "Look at that!" The three grown-ups in my stall looked up from perusing my goods and glanced at me. The little boy flicked through my digital paraphernalia, ignoring me. He was steadily approaching the videos where immoral offerings like Man Bites Dog and Ringu lay. My world began crumbling down around me."Ooooh!" I shouted. "Spyro the Dragon! What a wholesome yet entertaining game!" The child continued flicking, oblivious. The grown-ups were staring. "Aha!" I said, "Sonic Heroes! Hours of age-appropriate fun!"The grown-ups put their items down and edged away. The boy stood up with his chosen software clutched in his hand. I didn't want to look. I readied myself for confrontation."How much for these?" he asked, and produced two 11+ games. My whole body relaxed. "For those? Oh fabulous choices, yes, fantastic, let's see, yes, &pound;8," I stammered. The boy passed over his cash and walked happily away. I leaned back into the car, exhausted by my moral mental exercise."Did you tell him they were NTSC?" asked my co-trader Max on his return from lunch. Distracted, I'd forgotten I was selling US games as well, which won't play on British machines. My heart sank. I felt like the dodgy geezer in those pre-movie ads who pawns non-working kit off on a kind-hearted stranger. But it was too late. The boy was long gone. I felt lower than low. "But it was an innocent mistake!" I thought. "At least I kept his morality intact!" Well, that's what I'll tell the judge, anyway.
Professor Tony Ryan likes nothing better than to ride his mountain bike around the Peak District near his home. He enjoys the challenge of fast cycling along narrow tree-lined tracks, even though when he falls off he may lose some skin.But at work, it's skin injuries far worse than mountain biker's gravel rash that interest Ryan. A scientist at the University of Sheffield, he's involved in a project to develop a grafting technique to treat burns victims and other people who need to replace large areas of skin. This might seem odd for a man with a degree in polymer science and a PhD in reaction injection moulding. But he's creating a revolutionary dissolvable scaffold for growing new areas of skin.That's needed because although surgeons can already take skin grafts from their patients' skin, if the lower layer (the dermis) is lost, it cannot be repaired with the outer layer (the epidermis) alone. Surgeons must include a partial layer of dermis in skin grafts, or the wound simply will not heal. In serious burns cases, it may be impossible to harvest enough skin to cover the affected area."If you really want to replace human skin, you have to replace both layers, epidermis and dermis," says Sheila MacNeil, professor of cell and tissue engineering at Sheffield University, who in 2000 founded CellTran, a company to produce cultured skin cell healing products.Meccano solutionOne solution is a synthetic dermal alternative, or "scaffold", which the patient's own skin cells can grow through and over in the laboratory. Once they're grown sufficiently, the scaffold will be grafted onto the wound."The big challenge is to make [the scaffold] biodegrade so that it is gently replaced by the patient's own skin in two or three months," says MacNeil.The multi-disciplinary project - combining polymer science, chemistry and cell biology - resulted from a discussion several years ago between Ryan and MacNeil. "Sheila was looking for scaffolds to grow skin cells on," explains Ryan, who set to work, with funding from the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council.He describes his first unsuccessful attempt as a fancy polymer with added peptides (strings of protein) to encourage skin growth. The next involved a sponge-like foam material so the cells simply hid in the cavities. "It was very elegant but it also didn't quite work," says Ryan. "What was successful was plan C".Shunning bells and whistles for simplicity, he turned to a 1930s technique known as electrospinning. "It's a kind of grown-up Meccano really," says Ryan.Electrospinning pumps a liquid polymer to a fine metal needle electrified to 20,000 volts. A fine jet of material then whips off the needle's end and is attracted to a rotating, earthed collector, where it is deposited. The result looks like tissue paper, but the fibres are 100 times finer - like cellular Meccano. The first electrospun material produced used polystyrene and, rather unexpectedly, a sample of skin cells placed on the surface grew successfully."If the fibres are too thin,the cells can't grow on them. If it's too fat, it looks like a flat surface and the cells spread out on them but don't move on to the new tissue. We've done quite a bit of work on the effects of fibre geometry," says Ryan.Though not suitable for medical use - it won't dissolve in the human body - polystyrene proved an excellent platform for initial experiments. Human skin is a complex organ: besides the epidermis and dermis, it is comprised of many different types of cells, including keratinocytes that make us waterproof, fibroblasts that provide the sponginess of our skin so it doesn't tear all the time, and epithelial cells which line blood vessels in the skin."If you put a soup of these cells on to one of our scaffolds, they sort themselves out into the right order," says Ryan, who now reckons his plan C - using dissolvable clinical materials - will finally work.Although the mechanism is not fully understood, the cells seem to be programmed to rearrange themselves into layered normal skin. These simple scaffolds helps the cells grow in a safe yet natural way. Over the short life of a skin scaffold, mimicking nature too closely isn't necessary."It looks like we don't have to go that far. The cells sorted themselves out to an amazing degree," says MacNeil, who is now taking the skin scaffold from the lab bench to the clinic door with funds from the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council over the next few years.A tool with great potentialHaving realised that smart cells with a dumb scaffold is the key, the professors and their team are perfecting a dissolvable skin scaffold for skin growth. It will be made from clinically-approved materials such as PLGA, a dissolvable polymer used in surgical stitches, and undergo clinical and laboratory testing over the next three to five years, primarily for burns surgery and skin reconstruction where surgeons cannot take sufficient natural skin grafts.Peter Dziewulski, consultant surgeon at St Andrews Centre for Plastic Surgery and Burns at Chelmsford's Broomfield Hospital, knows the problems of skin grafting on badly-burned patients. He treats horrendous injuries from fires, scalds, electrical burns, and motor bike accidents. "About 70% of my practice is dealing with acute burns and burn reconstruction," he says.He has an ultra-sharp surgical instrument - a dermatome - for harvesting 10cm wide strips of split-thickness skin to graft over damaged areas.This removes the epidermis and a very thin slice of the dermis, leaving behind what looks like a graze. Other options include temporary donor skin, bovine collagen wound dressings, and cultured epithelial skin cells."As burns surgeons, we have a tool box of techniques that we can use. This sounds like potentially another tool to help patients, and I think that can only be beneficial," says Dziewulski. "It could become a very useful technique for burns and other wounds."The team at Sheffield University may go even further than skin grafts. They're also looking at scaffold technology to promote nerve or tendon growth, as well as producing skin for cosmetics toxicity testing. And by gently nudging smart cells into growing replacement tissues, these determined scientists seem likely to succeed.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
iPods do play MP3sI think statements such as: "iTunes' mainstream Windows Media-based competitors cannot break their nemesis's stranglehold. They offer few, if any, alternatives in terms of music and their tracks cannot be played on an iPod" (A musical tail of hits and misses, August 17) are confusing, as they can be taken to mean that only iTunes downloads can be played on an iPod. In fact, MP3 tracks can be played on iPods.Brian Wedge,Berkhamsted, HertsLaws onlineIn your article (Access denied to the laws that govern us, August 17), you comment that Halsbury's Statutes is available in "hard copy or online". This is not the case.LexisNexis Butterworths, which publish Halsbury's Statutes, does have an online equivalent, but the material for that is actually prepared by a completely separate department to that which prepares the material for Halsbury's - and as such, there are differences between the material online and in hard copy.Anthony Fairclough,former senior editor, Halsbury's Statutes &amp; Statutory Instruments&middot; I was interested to read your article about access to the law. I note that you list a number of free sources but did not mention our website,www.lawreports.co.uk, which publishes free summaries of key judgments which are likely to be reported within 24 hours of judgment.We also publish law reports and statutes in print and license electronic versions to Justis, WestLaw, and Lexis.John Cobbett,secretary, the Incorporated Council of Law Reporting for England and Wales, London&middot; Your interesting article about online legal resources is said to be about something called "British law". There is no such thing. There is English law and Scots law. Loads of commonalities, of course, but entirely separate legal systems, legislation and case law.It's not that the sources quoted would be inadequate, it's much more that they would be just plain wrong and misleading to the reader.Ann Caldwell,EdinburghSolar pricingIn the article Solar energy is hot stuff (August 17), you said the following: "With the average household's electricity bill above &pound;900 (and set to rise again with British Gas's latest price rises), solar panels start to make sense at &pound;4,000, after you've received a government grant available for installation."You greatly exaggerate the electricity bill. Most references I have seen estimate the "average" household consumption as 4,000-4,700 kilowatt-hours a year. The British Wind Energy Association uses 4,700 in all its statements concerning the output of wind farms. My own is around 4,900, in a fairly big house. Even after the latest price rises, this means that the average domestic electricity bill will be under &pound;500.And have you tried to get one of the government grants? They impose some extraordinary conditions, and I understand that all this year's budget has run out. There is also the problem of making sure you get paid appropriately for any electricity units you export, without which solar panels are an even poorer investment.David Ward,Berkeley, GloucestershireWireless miceI just read the article by Mat Smith. "Battery manufacturers must be rubbing their hands with the advent of wireless peripherals" (Technobile, August 17)? Somebody should give Mat a copy of the Argos catalogue and point out to him the pages of rechargeable batteries.Steve Elliott,LancasterPublic always paysThis sounds like something straight out of Terry Gilliam's film Brazil. The UK government is rolling out a database of UK laws, and it looks like the people who have already paid for it - the UK public - will have to pay again to access it.First they make the laws pay-per-view, then they make them secret ...http://opendotdotdot.blogspot.com/
How much more valuable is a network with 100 users than one with 50 users? If you know "Metcalfe's law", coined by Bob Metcalfe, inventor of the Ethernet networking system and founder of 3Com, you'll be saying "four times". But three authors of a paper in IEEE Spectrum magazine say that's an overestimate - and responsible for some of the hyped stock valuations of the first internet bubble.The claim has brought an annoyed reponse from Metcalfe himself, who insists that the new metric offered by the authors (which says that a network's value grows faster than the number of users, but not as fast as Metcalfe claims) is itself wrong.The difference is crucial to the venture capitalists investing billions of dollars in the new sites and services the average citizen wants to use. And if the IEEE authors are right, your online participation is now worth less than previously thought.Metcalfe's Law says that the value of a network rises with the square of the number of devices attached, while its cost grows linearly; so at some point, the benefit of being attached outweighs the cost. Metcalfe argued this to push Ethernet: while it was expensive to set up a network of two or three users, and not very useful, it didn't cost much more to extend the network to 10 or 20 or 200 users.Metcalfe asserted that while the cost of the network grew in a linear fashion, the value of the network grew by the square of the number of devices. So if a network of 1,000 users has a value of &pound;1m, and that network is expanded to 2,000 users, Metcalfe's Law says its value will be &pound;4m.The IEEE Spectrum authors - whose article appears (athttp://spectrum.ieee.org/jul06/4109) under the uncompromising headline "Metcalfe's Law is Wrong" - blame that logic "at least in small part" for the huge stock valuations put on web companies in the first internet bubble. They suggest that useful connections grow more slowly. "The fundamental flaw underlying ... Metcalfe's law is the assignment of equal value to all connections or all groups," they say, quoting Thoreau - who once remarked, about building a telegraph line to connect Maine and Texas, that "Maine and Texas, it may be, have nothing important to communicate".The authors note that if value really did grow quadratically, people with rival networks (say, instant messaging systems) would readily combine and make everybody better off. But they don't."We propose, instead, that the value of a network of size n grows in proportion to n log(n)," they write. Now if you double the size of your &pound;1m network of 1,000 users, its value becomes &pound;2.1m, not &pound;4m.Metcalfe - now a venture capitalist - argues (athttp://tinyurl.com/n92wh) that his law worked when he invented it, in the early 1980s.A better formulation could take other factors into account - including the idea that with too many users, a network's value starts to shrink, due to costs of network congestion, identity management, and security. After all, it's great if a network means you can email anybody. The downside? Anybody can spam you.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Showing that the Central Office of Information is trying anything it can to get in touch with today's school-leavers.Under the snappy username "publicservice" (whose age is given as "90") the government uploaded two videos - one titled "Transformational Government" (www.youtube.com/watch?v=0bkMWbXUVR8) and the other called "Sharing the Leadership Challenge" (www.youtube.com/watch?v= milFCLGiysI).The first is about (we're quoting) "Whitehall plans to save money by consolidating service departments and the leadership challenges this poses for managers". Clearly, the hope is that the videos would be consumed and spread virally as teenagers noted the canny visual references to Harry Potter films, and absorbed their public services message by a sort of cultural osmosis.The videos were discovered by Public Sector Forums, the independent UK network of e-government professionals, which was told by a Cabinet Office representative that "YouTube is just one example of how people are changing the way they communicate all the time... We are open to new ways of communicating, we are watching the digital revolution all the time and developing our own ways in government to communicate." It's also asking what people think of the Cabinet Office using "this new method of communication".Bluntly? Six minutes is far too long; the videos aren't paced for the youth market that YouTube really hits. If the Cabinet Office does want to see how its videos ought to look, it should offer the raw footage for video mashup artists to work with, and laugh when they mock it, which they will.Furthermore, if you don't have a good backbeat, plenty of whizzy special effects (which, OK, the "Transformational Government" video does boast) and a recognisable star (were Bill Nighy or Rachel Stevens unavailable?), people definitely won't prefer these over Chinese miming to Abba songs or pensioners' recantations of their life.Still, it could be positive if the Cabinet Office follows up by posting all of the public information films from its archives - the anti-drink-driving ones, the how to park ones, the do-up-your-seatbelt ones, and so on. It could become a unique cultural reference.
What people want, and in what form they want it. In other words, where the future markets for digital products are. A new study by David Y. Choi of Loyola Marymount University and Arturo Perez of the business development service Growthink (athttp://tinyurl.com/nr8eb)says that "online piracy has shown to be a valuable source of innovation to both industry incumbents and entrepreneurs", pointing out that pirates "tend to be early adopters" of music, game of software, and have notably "made a significant impact in the evolution of file-transferring technology" and pointing out, for example, that "many of former [illicit] Napster users have migrated to the legal version of Napster and Apple's iTunes".The authors note that the first incarnation of Napster, before it folded under lawsuits from record labels, demonstrated that plenty of people were interested in online distribution and storage of music to make customised CDs, find out-of-print songs and bootleg recordings at a time when record labels were still wondering how to sell music online.That's an understatement. Napster had anywhere between 29m and 60m users at its peak, in February 2001 (15 months after the first record industry lawsuit was filed against it). Napster's power also turned out to be in finding unreleased songs - and later generations of file-sharing networks have benefited artists who might otherwise have languished on the club circuit. Just ask the Arctic Monkeys, whose fanbase was greatly enhanced by having CDs of their gigs and songs put online before they had a record contract.By contrast, last September Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, mentioned that the iTunes Music Store - by far the largest music download retailer - had "just crossed 10 million accounts". That was at roughly the same age after its launch as Napster, which did not have the same benefits of the broadband age.Now BitTorrent is doing the same by showing that people want to be able to grab TV shows from the internet, and watch them when they want.Using the report as context, it becomes clear that piracy is the ultimate evolutionary test of a product. After all, count how many pirated versions of Corel Draw you see compared to those of Adobe Photoshop - and which is the market leader? Or how many BitTorrent copies of Pirates of the Caribbean you can find compared to The Seventh Seal? (Nobody is saying that market leadership necessarily correlates with quality, at least in films.) Similarly, Napster and subsequent file sharing demonstrates that what people really want is to grab single tracks, not entire albums - ironically, at exactly the same time as the single has declined in impact because fewer people are buying them.Choi and Perez comment that their paper "is one of the very first and rare attempts on the subject of online piracy in management or entrepreneurship literature" but that they believe it is "a practical paper that can be of use to academics as well as entrepreneurs".Certainly it echoes what many online have been saying: that the best way to beat piracy isn't with lawsuits - or, at least, not with lawsuits alone - but by taking away its unique selling points, which tend to be easy access to content and price.The signs are that TV and film companies are catching on to the promise as well as the threat of piracy: many are making TV clips or whole shows available before transmission, and the trend towards "atomisation" - breaking series or shows into smaller parts - increases apace. So, if you're enjoying your online song or TV show, thank the pirates.
Things really aren't going Apple's way just at the moment. It's having to restate its earnings going back some time because there arequeries about some of its stock optionshaving been backdated; iPod sales fell quarter-on-quarter; and now, it'sdecided not to fight Creative Labsin the lawsuit that the latter brought alleging that the iPod's menu system infringedCreative's patent, filed a few months before the first iPod appeared.Apple had originally aimed to fight fire with fire, launching a series of lawsuits against Creative in response to the first. However, Creative became increasingly inventive in the legal row, escalating it to the level where Apple might have been unable to import the product into the US. That, of course, might have affected sales ever so slightly.Now, it's over, and Creative is $100m richer and gets some bragging rights. From Reuters:Apple Chief Executive Steve Jobs said the agreement ends five lawsuits between the companies "and removes the uncertainty and distraction of prolonged litigation.""Creative is very fortunate to have been granted this early patent," Jobs added. Creative, the world's second-largest maker of MP3 music players after Apple, sued Apple in May alleging the Cupertino, California-based computer maker had infringed a patent on its "Zen" player.Jobs said further that the settlement "resolves all of our differences with Creative."We just love that "very fortunate". It reminds us of the golfer Gary Player, who (the story goes) holed out from a difficult position. "That was lucky!" exclaimed a spectator. Player looked at him. "The more I practise, the luckier I get," he shot back. And with patents, the more (and earlier) you file, the more fortunate you get. (We couldn't see the picture of the lemon that Jobs was surely sucking, but we can imagine it.)Will this help Creative? Its shares rose $1.50 to $7.50, but itshowed a $12m loss in its latest quarterand is "targeting" profit. Apple, with billions in the bank, can afford to suck the lemon on this one. As the Japanese say, rich men should not pick quarrels. Now, about those stock options...
So what if they haven't actually started building them yet - Sony is still making confident noises about PS3. Yesterday Arstechnica.comreportedthat the company has reiterated plans to ship four million next-gen consoles by the close of the year and another two million by the end of March 2007. That's still only six million consoles to feed significant global demand, of course, but lets not be pedantic.More recently, Reuters - among others - hascoveredSony's announcement that it would be showing off 27 PS3 games at the upcoming Tokyo Game Show. Gamespot goesone further, listing the playable demos on offer allegedly including Ridge Racer 7, Devil May cry 4, MotorStorm, the latest Metal Gear Solid, Heavenly Sword (pictured) and the one everybody is watching, Mahjong Taikai IV. It's an impressive line-up bolstered by a generous handful of PSP titles.Now, if they could just get round to actuallymanufacturing the consoles...
Prosecutors in Brazil are going after Google because it refused to hand over information about users who they claim are engaged in illegal activity. According to theSydney Morning Herald:The prosecutors want Google to pay a $US61 million fine and asked that if it refuses to comply with its information request, its Brazilian unit be dissolved.In its request, the federal prosecutor's office in Sao Paulo alleges that several community pages on Google's popular social network site, Orkut, have been used to organize criminal activity and promote child pornography.The prosecutors want a federal judge to order Google to hand over user information on those Orkut pages that are being investigated for promoting crimes. If Google were to disobey such an order, it would have to pay a daily fine of at least 200,000 reais ($US93,000).This resistance is in keeping with the thumbed-nose that Google showed to American law enforcement officials when it refused to hand over search data. Orkut is the social networking site which Google launched two and a half years ago but failed to turn into a market-leading product - although it does have around 20 million users (nearly all of them are Brazilian, however).Unfortunately, of course, the refusal of search companies to comply with legal hardballing will never legislate for somebody like AOL managing to hand out the same information to everyone for nothing... (which of course got those responsible fired)
ModelVW Eos 2.0 TDIPrice&pound;21,360Top speed127mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.4 secsConsumption47.1 mpg (combined)Emissions158 g/kmAt the wheelTim HenmanThey'd rather walkAndy MurrayOn the stereoOrsonEn route forGuildfordThe VW Eos, an all-new convertible coupe, has quite a name to live up to. Anyone with a copy of Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable can quickly tell you that Eos was the Greek goddess of the dawn, who was believed to tug the sun above the horizon every morning. That must have taken some serious horsepower, not least in those early, pre-combustion days. On the VW Eos, a towbar is optional but, this being a glitzy convertible coupe, rather than some rugged caravan-hauler, not especially recommended.This is not the first time that, casting around for a label, Volkswagen has dipped boldly - some might say hubristically - into ancient mythology. They called the ponderous, seemingly bullet-proof limo at the top of the VW range the Phaeton; the sun's son, who was, essentially, an epic joy-rider. His greatest claim to fame is that he once borrowed and crashed his dad's chariot, wiping out almost the whole of Africa in the process. I'm not sure that VW really thought that one through.At least Eos didn't have points on her licence. Is the VW Eos a chariot of the gods, though? It would depend, presumably, how the gods felt about driving a cut-price Audi TT-alike, that being the Eos's most obvious visual reference, albeit that the Eos has longer and tamer lines and looks a touch more modest and less sure of itself than its squat cousin. There was a period, not so long ago, in film and television dramas, when characters who were moneyed and, to some important extent, feckless, would almost automatically be given an Audi TT to drive, the car serving as a handy visual shorthand for heartlessness. This is not a fate that awaits the more neutral, unaggressive Eos.What the gods might be impressed by is the Eos's tremendous take on the electronically operated, self-peeling, hard-top roof, a device now enjoying the fast-fading autumn of its days as an exclusive and fabulously exotic accessory. Electronic tops are all over the place these days, on all manner of cars, including some pretty cheap and cheerful ones, and fairly soon we'll be greeting their public operation (the formerly joyful, unmanned springing-open of the boot, the once magical procession of body panels into the boot) with the kind of ho-hum expression with which we now acknowledge ultra-tiny mobile phones and online grocery shopping.In the meantime, the Eos's roof must grab what attention it can. First of all it incorporates a sunroof, which, for practical reasons having to do with the unwieldiness of plate glass, is not all that easy to do in a retracting top - or certainly not in a car coming in at less than &pound;45,000 and which isn't a Porsche. And this is not just a token, niggardly skylight either. Indeed, almost as wide and as deep as the car it sits on, the slide-and-tilt sunroof on the Eos is so spectacularly capacious that the interior could, given a wicker chair or two and a magazine tidy, usefully double as a conservatory.In addition, in the process of breaking up and stowing itself away, the Eos's roof comprises no fewer than five sections. Apart from improving the opening procedure as a spectacle, this means that, on its journey into the boot, the roof doesn't end up requiring unfeasible amounts of overhead clearance. Which, in turn, means that operating it is something you might be prepared to practise in the privacy of your own garage.At any rate, I can record that I put my Eos's top back on in the ungenerous confines of a multi-storey car park attached to a shopping centre, and waited, with gritted teeth, for the unmistakable sound of expensive sunroof scraping on cheap concrete. But nothing came. Clearly this is a major advance for roof on/roof off convenience.To drive, the Eos is smooth, uncomplicated, and easy on the hands and feet, as well as on the eyes, yet without being impressively refined or startlingly powerful, which a coupe this size would generally aim to be. But this probably ought not to surprise us in a car that blends, structurally and cosmetically, bits of a VW Passat and bits of a VW Golf - cars with more modest names and ambitions.Ancient Greeks, incidentally, used to refer to the morning dew as the "tears of Eos", believing the liquid that silvered the grass each day fell from the eyes of the goddess, destined to weep inconsolably after her son, Memnon, was rubbed out by Achilles in some kind of epic drive-by. Moving. But any similar effect produced by your VW Eos is almost certainly the result of a leak of some kind and you should probably get it looked at by an authorised repair shop.
Over at Seattle PI, again, Todd Bishop has celebrated the 9-month anniversary of the Xbox 360 by looking athow sales of games have changed.He's done this by adding together the sales of a handful of games publishers who break out results by console, so it's not a proper market survey. However, it does include EA, the industry giant, so it's probably a good sign of which way the wind is blowing.The resultis not a surprise. Basically, the Xbox share of the market has increased, at the expense of the PS2 and GameCube. But not by much. As Bishop says:You can literally see the user base shifting from the original Xbox to the Xbox 360, with the two Microsoft consoles basically splitting the sales volume that was associated with the original Xbox in the previous year. This appears to support the conventional wisdom that much of the Xbox 360's initial market would come from existing Xbox users who upgrade to the new console. The question here is how many new gamers and PS2 users the Xbox 360 will be able to attract in the long run.Nintendo fans will note that the GameCube looks horribly weak -- and, indeed, it is. However, the sums don't include first party games published by Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo. Both the Sony and Microsoft numbers will be hit by this, but I expect the Nintendo numbers suffered even more.
The number of broadband households in the UK is set to pass 10m, boosted by the recent spate of "free" fast internet offerings, according to the Office for National Statistics.New media executives hailed the latest ONS figures as providing proof that "web 2.0" - providing richer content, including video, more user-generated interactivity and material - was making its presence felt in the UK.ONS's Omnibus Survey, an annual report that examines internet access among households and individuals, showed that of the 14.3m UK households with an internet connection at the end of June, 9.87m - or 69% - had broadband.At the current rate of growth, the number of UK domestic broadband connections should pass 10m well before the end of the year.In terms of all UK households - taking into account those without internet access - broadband has reached 40% of all homes.The ONS included Northern Ireland in its figures for the first time this year.Figures in last year's survey for Great Britain only showed just 28% of households had broadband.The rise of broadband penetration is being fuelled by a recent spate of "free" broadband offers and competitive package deals from firms such as The Carphone Warehouse, Orange, BSkyB and BT.A separate ONS survey of internet service providers, which includes business as well as household connections, showed that 72.6% had broadband. This was up from 54.4% in June last year."Broadband is taking off. There is clearly a disproportionate number of broadband connections versus traditional dial-up connections," said George Hadjigeorgiou, the general manager for European communications products at Yahoo!."There is a price war in the UK and these figures are confirmation of the move from web 1.0 to web 2.0. If the first phase was about breadth, it is now about depth, with users spending more time online using much more video and music services."The ONS households-only survey also shows marked regional differences in overall internet and broadband uptake.Overall, 57% of British households have some form of internet connection.The region with the highest percentage of overall internet access was the south-east with 66%. The area with the lowest was Scotland with 48%.In terms of broadband penetration, London led the country with nearly half - 49% - of all households having fast internet access.Northern Ireland was the least broadband-connected region with just 28% having a fast internet service.Overall, 43% of UK households still have no internet connection. This varies regionally, with Scotland the least internet-enabled part of the UK, with 52% of households still having no access at all.This compares with the south-east, where only one in three households are yet to connect to some form of internet service.The two main reasons given by households for not having a connection were that it was not needed or useful (24% of those surveyed) and a lack of skills to use the internet (also 24% of respondents).On a gender basis, 40% of women have never used the internet, compared with 30% of men.But only 10% of 16- to 24-year-olds had never used the internet, compared with 82% of the 65-plus group.The most popular activity online is searching for goods and services, according to 84% of those surveyed who had accessed the internet over a three month period.However, the most popular activity for women was email.Of those who purchased goods online in the last 12 months, films and music were the most popular products, followed closely by travel or holiday accommodation.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Thenewsthat FIFA 07 and Pro Evo 6 will be next gen exclusive to 360 - i.e. they won't appear on PS3 and Wii - is further indication of Microsoft's bullish intention. Want to play the latest Pro Evo on a next-gen machine this Christmas? Then you'll have to play on the 360. So good news for Microsoft then, although you could argue that with PS3 and Wii not due out until later in the year, and with both likely to suffer from supply issues, the coup is not quite as impressive as Microsoft are making out. Now securing Pro Evo 7 and FIFA 08 as exclusives - with PS3 and Wii firmly established - would be the real killer. Still, today's announcement confirms, if we didn't know already, that Microsoft are deadly serious about winning the next-gen games war.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
With E3 evolving/going down the pantheLeipzig Games Conventionhas taken on a whole new level of importance. The event, which started today and runs through to the weekend, distinguishes itself from E3 by being officially open to the public, although getting into the LA event as a punter was fairly easy. I'm heading over to Germany this evening and will be spending the day on the showfloor tomorrow. Obviously I'll be dodging the numerous German fantasy RTS titles and heading over to the blockbuster delights of Pro Evo 6 on Xbox 360,Burning Crusade, Wii,Gears of Warplus anything more leftfield that I can find. And PS3? There will be nothing playable from Sony, but third party titles should be around. Leipzig will give us a clearer indication of how the next-gen battle is shaping up.
Users of Microsoft's Messenger email service will be able to report suspected sexual predators directly to the police at the click of a mouse.In an attempt to protect the 11 million users of the service from potential abusers, the software giant has struck up a partnership with the UK government-backed Child Exploitation &amp; Online Protection Centre.Microsoft will add a "report abuse" icon to Messenger that will link any users worried about their anonymous internet buddies directly to online police services.Set up earlier this year to provide a single point of contact for the public, law enforcers and the communications industry to report the targeting of children online, CEOP offers advice and information to parents and potential victims of abuse and works with police forces around the world to protect children."This is part of our 'safer by design' plan and strategy which is designed to make predators have a lack of confidence because of what is going on behind the scenes while they are online," said Jim Gamble, the chief executive of CEOP."This is a landmark step by Microsoft. They could have got &#163;20,000 in ad revenue for the space they have given up to ensure a higher level of user safety and we hope others will follow them."The debate about online safety has heated up recently, with social networking sites such as Bebo and MySpace becoming enormously popular with teen- and pre-teenage children.Bebo recently hired Rachel O'Connell - one of Europe's foremost experts in internet safety.Because there are few barriers to joining social networking sites, or using a messenger service, users can operate anonymously and pretend to be any age or gender.While most services usually issue warnings about usage - such as not revealing too much personal information - in reality it is almost impossible to police, and therefore protect, young users.It is estimated that 61% of UK children aged 13-17 have a personal profile on a networking site and many of profiles feature risqu&eacute; pictures of the user.In June, a 21-year-old media student from Surrey became the first person to be convicted of child grooming offences after using teenspot.com.Microsoft's service - which is being rebranded as Windows Live Messenger - is the largest instant messenger service in the UK with 11.3 million registered users, according to figures from Nielsen NetRatings.This compares with rival AOL, which has 3.5 million, and Yahoo!'s 1.7 million messenger users.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
On the whole, I've nothing against bike lanes. As long as I don't have to ride in them, unless they're useful and convenient to me, I tend to think that dedicated road space for cyclists is a good, rather than a bad, thing (even if we tend to lose our own demarcated space precisely at those points where it would really be worth having).But as I went out for an early ride on Sunday morning, before it got too hot, I remembered another good reason for not using bike lanes. They are always full of broken glass. When I got honked at by a car because I was riding just outside the lane, even though, at 8am, he had the whole road to pass me, it was nearly enough to spoil my sunny mood. Drivers, clearly, can have no idea when they see a cyclist wobble in front of them that, quite a lot of the time, it's to avoid a patch of needle-sharp shards deposited by their broken headlights and windscreens. And one thing passing cars do very effectively is "sweep" all that broken glass to the side of the road, where we are supposed to cycle.The sheer quantity of it is staggering. On average, about 6% of the UK's 32m vehicles will have to replace their windscreens every year: that's getting on towards 2m units, or 20,000 tonnes of glass. The RAC claims that 95% of the half-million units it replaces every year get recycled. But even if, very conservatively, we took that optimistically low-sounding 5% figure to stand in for all unrecovered roadside breakages, that would still be 1,000 tonnes of broken windscreen a year dumped on our roads - before we even get into smashed side windows, shattered headlamps and the rest.There is some comfort to cyclists in the fact that tyre manufacturers have partially met the challenge of the typical cycling environment - a razor-edged screed of shattered silica. In the old days, you paid your money and took your choice between either a tyre with a soft compound that had good traction but would puncture easily, or one with a hard compound that would wear better but have less grip (especially in the wet). Now the technology has moved on, and Kevlar - the stuff bullet-proof vests are made from - reinforces tyre treads (it's a war out there, after all).I didn't get a puncture on Sunday, so I suppose I shouldn't complain. But when I passed one of those street-sweeping machines, I felt like cheering. Perhaps it's something to say to the motorist next time you hear the old chestnut about cyclists not having to pay road tax (apart from repeating the equally old correction that what they pay is a vehicle tax, not a road tax): that cyclists do pay council tax - which helps to clear up all the mess made by cars.Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear MattI am a middle-aged woman and have recently taken to cycling because of a running injury. I know how much running it takes to keep fit, but I can't find out how much cycling to do for the same level of fitness. In my case, "fitness" means I can eat what I like without putting on weight, and I do a couple of half marathons a year at a slow but steady pace. I'm cycling to and from work each day - a round trip of about 15 miles, half an hour each way. Is this enough?Liz Millward-Hayes, via emailIt's probably not enough for you to carry on eating whatever you like - although this is something that you can learn to monitor. But if you enjoy cycling, I think you could aim to do a longer ride at the weekend. A useful idea might be to set a goal of a charity ride of 50-60 miles twice a year - like your half marathons.The key thing is that you need to get as out-of-breath cycling as you would if you were running. This probably means going on slightly longer rides because you can coast on a bike in a way you can't jogging. No shortcuts, sorry!
"[Michael] Arrington, a 36-year-old entrepreneur behind a long list of unrecognizable startups, has suddenly become one of the rising stars of Silicon Valley. Why? The answer lies in TechCrunch, Arrington's blog about new technologies and companies. In the year since he launched the site, he has amassed such a strong following that he's become a go-to person for VCs and tech execs looking to leak corporate tidbits or announce news. More than 1.5 million readers regularly check out his site. But here's what gives Arrington real distinction: He's pulling in $60,000 in ad revenue every month. That's 10 times what the site was making earlier this year, which was when Arrington, convinced of the potentially monstrous riches ahead, quit his day job as president of a startup to blog full-time," writesBusiness 2.0magazine, in its September cover story."With Internet-like speed, blogs have gone from self-indulgent hobbies to flourishing businesses. Real businesses, with real revenue streams from real advertisers--not overhyped next big things with pick-a-number valuations based on selling out someday to some overenthusiastic big-media sugar daddy. Boing Boing, a four-person operation that bills itself as a directory of wonderful things, is on track to gross an estimated $1 million in ad revenue this year. The digital-media news site PaidContent.org, headquartered in the second bedroom of a Santa Monica apartment, is set to post even more than that. And Fark.com, a site packed with sophomoric humor run by a lone guy in Lexington, Ky., is on pace to become a multimillion-dollar property. In short, some of the most popular blogs, long the bane of the mainstream media, are themselves becoming mainstream."
Anything Sony can do Nintendo can do better - or is it the other way round? Anyhow, Nintendo have announced the October 27th launch of the pink DS Lite. According to the press release it will, "find a happy home in the most stylish of bags and is perfect for those on the go."Elsewhere at theLeipzig Games Convention, Nintendo have announced two new Wii games. The tentatively titled - and you can see why - Mario Strikers Charged (update of Mario Smash Football) and Battalion Wars II. Curiously unexcited by the thought of those two? Me too. Still, I'm looking forward to reacquainting myself with the Wii on the showfloor tomorrow. Ten minutes of Super Mario Galaxy at E3 wasn't enough to decide whether it was a stellar leap forward - my initial feeling - or a fiddly annoyance that distracted from the tightly controlled and perfectly designed Mario experience. We'll see.
In this week's excellent hour-long Radio 5 Live movie review podcast,Mark Kermodedropped into the discussion that the film industry aims its products at a core demographic of 14-23 year old boys. Where have I heard that statistic before?Yes, the games industry's oft-quoted age range (regardless of padded "average" ages from various sources) appears to match that of Hollywood, according to the good doctor. Yet the two seem so monumentally far apart in terms of the quality, the breadth and the depth of their output. What gives?I mean, really. Games are stuck in a rut in which so-called heroes blast through every wall/human/mutant to get to the princess/the booty/the end. There are very few exceptions to this rule. No, really. There are few exceptions.Cinema, on the other hand, has a vast range of genres, styles and plot devices that take the linear art form to a mainstream and diverse audience, regardless of who the movie execs are thinking about when they greenlight a project. No matter that the future issupposedto be typified by consumer participation (William Castletried that in the 50s and was dismissed as a hack) or user-generated content (thepotentialofJames Cameron's future MMOG projects aside); traditional movies are appealing to an enormous audience only fantasised by computer games publishers.But... they're supposed to appeal to the same age range. Why the difference?Well, perhaps there's something to be said for the indies. Out of the arthouse cinema movement came the auteurs who challenged the foundations of original cinematic experiences. They've had a century to diversify. Is there anyone in gamesland who has the cahones to stand up to the publishers? Only a handful of development "stars" make the grade, and you can bet your bottom dollar that when something by a Miyamoto, Molyneux or a McGee comes out, people take notice. Yet is anyone really pushing the technology - or even the standard boundaries that it offers - in the same way Welles did when he releasedCitizen Kaneor Scorsese did when he releasedTaxi Driver?Movies also tap into a classical human entertainment form which gaming has yet to crack: the story. Anyone can sit down and be captivated by a tale. But to truly get involved with the telling? To have that drive? That momentum? Unless it's compelling, it seems that the average Joe (or Jane, for that matter) won't.So while there are alternatives to the movie products released for the core demographic which appeal to a mass market audience, potential games consumers are forced to enjoy what they're given.But fast forward 80 years, and I bet there will be something for everyone.
Dear MattI am a middle-aged woman and have recently taken to cycling because of a running injury. I know how much running it takes to keep fit, but I can't find out how much cycling to do for the same level of fitness. In my case, "fitness" means I can eat what I like without putting on weight, and I do a couple of half marathons a year at a slow but steady pace. I'm cycling to and from work each day - a round trip of about 15 miles, half an hour each way. Is this enough?Liz Millward-Hayes,via emailIt's probably not enough for you to carry on eating whatever you like - although this is something that you can learn to monitor. But if you enjoy cycling, I think you could aim to do a longer ride at the weekend. A useful idea might be to set a goal of a charity ride of 50-60 miles twice a year - like your half marathons.The key thing is that you need to get as out-of-breath cycling as you would if you were running. This probably means going on slightly longer rides because you can coast on a bike in a way you can't jogging. No shortcuts, sorry!
For ultimate security, it seemsyou may have to lose more than your mobile phone and laptop....Thanks to reader Chris Schofield (no relation),The Registerhas an uncensored screen grab.
US mobile games company Airplay has announced a deal with the Sprint network to create the world's first mobile phone-to-television interactive game. Once downloaded, the app will allow Sprint customers to 'participate' in the forthcoming Emmy awards, guessing which actors will win various categories and answering trivia questions during the broadcast. Real-time polls are also set to be part of the experience with gamers able to vote on the best and worst-dressed celebs at the event.Airplay originallyrevealedits AiplayTV concept earlier this year and is likely to roll out similar games for other awards ceremonies and reality TV shows in the future. The idea is not entirely unlike Digital Chocolate's well-receivedMLSN Sports Pickswhich lets friends 'bet' on the outcome of real sports events. Both have abandoned any pretence of creating console-style games on the miniature screen and instead seek to interact with the user's other media and entertainment interests. Possibly a wise and prophetic move.The concept has yet to make it over to the UK where rampant device fragmentation is likely to play an impish role in complicating matters. Shame, as you can imagine this working brilliantly with Big Brother, Love Island or even Sky Sports News. And if the game is created in partnership with the network provider perhaps I wouldn't be charged a tenner to download it...ViaMobileCrunch
Brain Training has won this year'sEIFFEdge Award, beating the likes of Fahrenheit, Electroplankton and Guitar Hero. Announcing the winner at last night's industry gathering, Edge editor Margaret Robinson gushed, "We're delighted that Brain Training won - it's a great ambassador for gaming and proves that the instincts for making rewarding and entertaining software that Nintendo has honed for decades can be applied in entirely unexpected ways."This year, Edge also ran a mobile game award, which was claimed by InfoSpace's innovative party-'em-up, Dirty Sanchez. Designed to be played in the pub and passed among mates, the title presents a series of challenges and dares to increasingly inebriated players. As Robertson pointed out, "it could only have worked on a mobile" - which is more than can be said for most mobile titles.So, two resolutely mainstream games with unorthodox scoring systems, both offering a series of challenges that rely little on typical gaming skills such as hand-eye coordination or lightning reflexes. Casual issoin.
Microsoft is "buying more companies than we have ever bought," according to chief executive Steve Ballmer -- but they are mostly small ones. According to Seattle PI newspapermanTodd Bishop, Microsoft did 23 deals in its last fiscal year, compared with nine the year before. However, the cost was much lower: only $650 million compared with more than $2 billion.The story says:The smaller deals often don't contribute significantly to the bottom line in the short run. But in some cases, their effects have been seen relatively quickly in Microsoft products.Windows Live Writer, a blogging program released in test form last week, started inside Onfolio Inc., acquired by Microsoft in March.Last month, Microsoft introduced a new project called Photosynth based in part on technology from Seadragon Software, acquired in February.However, Google is buying even more small companies: "Google Chief Executive Eric Schmidt told reporters at a conference last month that Google buys companies at a rate of one or two a week, many of them as small as one to three people," reports Bishop.
Sam Ramji, Director of Microsoft's Open Source Software Lab, hasposted an invitationto a Usenet newsgroup, mozilla.dev.planning. In part, it says:As part of my mission as an advocate for open source applications on Windows, I've gotten spaces set aside at the Windows Vista Readiness ISV Lab. In the past the company has only invited commercial software developers to these labs. I'm committed to evolving our thinking beyond commercial companies to include open source projects, so I went to the non-trivial effort of getting slots for non-commercial open source projects.The lab itself is a 4-day event held in Redmond every week through December 2006; we provide secure office space for 4 people, hardware, VPN access, and 1:1 access to product team developers and support staff.Thanks toArs Technicafor the link.Comment: Microsoft puts a lot of effort into helping ISVs (independent software vendors) to get their software running as well as possible on new operating systems. This helps the vendor (it makes upgrade sales) and helps Microsoft (faster adoption of the new OS, fewer incompatibilities, reduced support costs). Microsoft still gets those benefits even if the software is open source.
Phil Lunt'sjust emailed me to deliver the good news that computer games design visionary (and frequent winner of the GDCDesignChallengecompetition)Will Wrightwill be making an appearance at a special event in the centre of London next week. The event is sponsored by Wright-owner EA and is billed as "a presentation on the future of gaming".Tickets are free - for non-journalists only! Where's my NUS card... - and will be available via ballot. Get your name in there if you want to see the maker of all-things-Sim and Spore firsthand! Send your request for tickets toevents@ea.com.If you can't make it, listen tothis excellent discussion(or, "intense clinic on the joys and techniques of 'generative' creation") between music visionaryBrian Enoand Wright instead.NOTE: As the bottom, informative bit of the graphical announcement is cut off, here it is in a nutshell:BAFTA, 195 Picadilly Tuesday 29 August, 6pm. Places are strictly limited and will be allocated by ballot. To apply for tickets, please email events@ea.com by 6pm Thursday 24th August. Successful applicants will be notified on Friday 25th August. No journalists.
Apologies, I have other things to do at the minute that are distracting me from remembering Chatterbox.
Microsoft'sPeter Moorepresented at a conference earlier in the month and highlighted eight things the games industry can do to break free from mis-placed gamer elitism, which is keeping the target demographic small and homogenous.Here they are(with high-end PP slides, for completists):Beyond The Boys In Their Bedrooms. Appeal to a much wider audience.Don't Pass The Buck On Rising Development Costs. We need to find ways to reduce costs and restructure our revenue models.Rebel Without A Platform: Bring Aspiring Developers Into The Fold. For too long we've expected the developers of the future to claw their way up to us ... we have to start coming to them and proactively develop a farm team of future stars.It's A YouTube World: Embrace Community Created Content. We're control freaks when it comes to how games are delivered to consumers. We need more spaces where garage designers can get noticed.Set Us Free. We should look at delivering new IP in new ways that recognize how powerful a concept shaping your own gaming experience is.We're Too Cool For School: Make Ourselves More Approachable. Games are more powerful, but less approachable. We need to make more games for more people. Expand demographics, online gameplay, strong family settings.Lower The Total Cost Of Ownership With Choice. Consumer should have choices, starting at entry level, purchases should be upgradable, don't lock consumers in.Treat Windows Like A Gaming Platform. Windows as a platform reaches more people than any console ever will.Food for thought. I'm particularly intrigued by No.4. It fits in nicely with theannouncementthat the Xbox 360 will be an independent game developer publishing platform, and the position of "You" (i.e., us) at the top of the "50 Who Matter Now" list.
The iconic hybrid was launched nine years ago, and spearheaded the green-car-as-fashion-accessory trend, especially in Hollywood. Half a million sales later, the &pound;17,780 Prius remains at the forefront of hybrid design, providing the technology for the more expensive Lexus.Ford Focus FFVWhen Ford launched the Focus FFV (flexible fuel vehicle) last year it was the first production biofuel car on sale in the UK. This year it introduced a C-Max FFV, announcing that these cars would now be sold at the same price (from &pound;14,045) as their petrol equivalents. In Sweden, 40% of all Fords sold are FFV. In the UK, because only a handful of service stations in East Anglia and Somerset currently sell bioethanol, Ford only expects to sell a few hundred FFV vehicles and is urging the government to improve tax breaks.Vauxhall DualfuelAutogas or liquid petroleum gas (LPG) is a liquid under pressure made from butane and propane. Globally there are more than 10 million vehicles that run on LPG, although few manufacturers offer it as a factory-fitted option. Vauxhall has offered official aftermarket conversions since 1996 and most of its models, including the Corsa, Astra and Zafira, can be made to run on LPG, and at the flick of a button, on petrol as well. Converting the engine and adding an LPG tank - usually where the spare tyre goes - costs around &pound;2,000. However this is offset by tax breaks, London congestion charge exemption and a saving of around 50% in fuel costs over petrol. Vauxhall claims that its LPG cars provide a 75% improvement in regulated exhaust emissions. Its current advantage over bioethanol is that it is the most available of alternative fuels, with more than 1,300 LPG filling stations around the country.Saab 9-5 BioPowerLaunched in the UK earlier this year, this biofuel range offers two engine sizes and a choice of saloon or estate models. Starting from &pound;21,051, they are &pound;600 more expensive than petrol 9-5 models, but because bioethanol has a higher octane rating, Saab's engine provides 20% more bhp than its petrol equivalent - so as well as being a cleaner car, it is also much faster.Lexus RX400hThis &pound;35,485 luxury Chelsea tractor is as green as an SUV gets. It is a hybrid, using two electric motors to power the car up to 30mph, at which point the petrol engine kicks in for extra acceleration and higher cruising speeds providing a maximum of 272bhp. With zero carbon dioxide emissions at urban speeds, it benefits from company-car tax breaks. The electric engines recharge automatically using energy obtained when braking, with a nifty dashboard screen monitoring the constant energy flow between the engines.Honda Civic IMAUnfortunately not based on the rakish new Civic, the IMA (integrated motor assist) looks like a plodding 80s Japanese econo-box. Underneath the &pound;16,300 car sits a 1.4-litre engine that provides the performance of a 1.6 and the economy of a 1.1. The electric motor is used during stop-start urban traffic, recharging the battery every time you brake.Nice Mega CityThere's little ambiguity about the cuddly green credentials of a car company called Nice. A two-seater with a top speed of 40mph and a range of 50 miles between charges, it costs &pound;9,995. Nice features include servicing at your home or office in addition to the monetary benefits - no London congestion charge or road tax, and an estimated running cost of 1.5p per mile. And of course no pollution - even the car's plastic body panels are completely recyclable. Nice also sells an electric utility vehicle that can be modified to be a pick-up, van, cab or tipper.Reva G-WizThe G-Wiz, designed in California and made in India, is the world's bestselling electric car. It is a common sight in London, both on the roads and being charged up overnight with an extension lead outside houses. Like the Nice, it is exempt from road tax and congestion charges. It terms of economy, the G-Wiz starts at &pound;6,999 and offers the equivalent of 600mpg, which works out as an estimated annual cost of &pound;50.&#183;Shiraz Randeria is the editor of Intersection magazine
Stephane Labrunieof mobile game publisher, I-Play, has delivered a daring keynote speech atLeipzig, claiming that mobile game sales will top those of console titles this year. While the exec trotted out the usual stats - 48 per cent of mobile gamers are female, only 58 per cent are aged between 18 and 34 - he conceded that the industry still has problems. Only 5% of phone users have downloaded a game, while 16% cite cost as a key barrier.I'm not surprised. As a T-Mobile pay-as-you-go customer I was charged £10 last week to go onto a developer portal and download a Java title of around 350k. Confused and horrified, I rang the company's customer services line where a member of staff cheerily informed me that, no, there had been no catastrophic system error and that this was the correct charge based on the amount of data I downloaded. If I was a mainstream gamer - the sort that mobile games publishers are desperate to attract - that's the last time I'd ever dothat.ViaGamesindustry.biz
Hollywood Reporter hasa fascinating featureon current attempts to get the videogame industry and health sectors to work together. The article begins with Dr. Bruce Jarrell, a transplant surgeon who has written a piece of 'virtual patient' software to simulate key diseases, but is now seeking a philanthropic games developer to add the necessary visuals.The piece goes onto consider theGames For Healthproject, specifically set up to put game developers in touch with health organisations that - like Jarrell - need interactive entertainment talent for educational gaming projects. Ben Sawyer, co-director of the project, is also keen to get game studios to put more health messages into their mainstream releases, citing Fable as an interesting example. In the Xbox RPG, the character's body shape changes depending on the fat content of the virtual food he consumes: "There's a very subtle, simple message embedded there, that what you eat affects your health. Clearly you can see the potential for teaching gamers about childhood obesity."According to Sawyer, Hollywood has a long history of embedding social messages about health care into story lines. The article mentions how the CDC [Center for Disease Control] persuaded the producers of ER to place a condom poster on the set to get across a subtle safe sex message. Could more videogame developers be persuaded to take a similar approach? Not as profitable as in-game advertising, of course, but it might be a quick and easy way to silence the 'videogames are evil' fringe. The key issue is one of plausible context - just as gamers don't want to be walloped over the head by fizzy drink adverts while they're trying to take out terrorists in an Afghan market, they don't want to be clobbered with Wear A Condom ads either.More interesting perhaps are the developers who are now producing educational mini-games for charities and health groups in-between their big console projects. What better way for a company to celebrate the release of its latest gangsta romp than by spending a few weeks bashing out a drug awareness title for a little extra cash and, as Don Daglow, CEO ofStormfront Studiospoints out, the chance to, "feel good about themselves when they go home at night"?
"For the first time since its launch in November 2000 and over 8 million consoles later, the PlayStation 2 (PS2) will break the sub-one hundred pound mark and retail for £94.99 with immediate effect. The price of an 8MB Memory Card will also fall, details tbc," says Sony.There will also bea pink version, which Sony's PR describes as "One for the girls...."Comment: Guess you have to make your ownHello Kittydecorations....
Presumably deciding that pink is the new black Sony have announced a pink PSP. And, in an obvious marketing tie-in, the singer Pink is involved, with videos and music included on a - you've guessed it - pink UMD. Due to launch on the 27 th October, the 170 quid bundle includes all the usual PSP accessories although no games. Could it be the lack of "female friendly" games on the PSP, or do Sony imagine that movies and music will be the attraction. Either way, I predict more success for the pink PS2 than the PSP.
Brain-eating Zombies invaded San Francisco on Saturday.Laughing Squidreports, withpictures:The zombies were first sighted at the corner of Sansome and Market Street, then they proceed up Market Street, converting innocent bystanders into the undead as they slowly marched on. Then they turned up Powell Street at the cable car turnaround, bewildering the tourists as they were waiting in line. After claiming Union Square as their own, they then went back down toward Market where they proceeded to invade the flagship San Francisco Apple store, causing chaos at the Bandwidth Shindig! which was taking place upstairs. Their current whereabouts are unknown, but rumor has it that they were looking for a "think tank" to find more Brains!!!!The site has links to previous zombie invasions:This wasn't the first zombie attack. Last year zombies took over Canada starting in July 2005 with Montreal and then in September 2005 it was Vancouver (Vancouver Zombie Walk 2005), followed by Toronto (Toronto Zombiewalk 2005) in October 2005. After the Montreal invasion, the zombies moved down to the US and in July 2005 they invaded San Francisco. Last Christmas, even santas became zombies at Zobmie Claus in Ypsilanti and Ann Arbor, Michigan.In April 2006 the zombies made their way to Brisbane, Australia (Brisbane ZombieWalk). Most recently, the zombies returned to Vancouver (Zombie Walk 2006).
