The largest US mobile phone company has began legal action against new government regulations that protect the free flow of internet traffic in the latest twist on the "net neutrality" debate.Verizon Communications is taking the action following the publication last week of new Federal Communications Commission rules barring fixed-line broadband companies from prioritising or blocking any legal content on their networks.Some companies would like to charge content producers in exchange for delivering their material, such as movies, to consumers faster than other non-paying internet traffic.The rules, which come into effect in two months, are more lenient on mobile networks. Phone companies are only barred from blocking voice and other applications that compete with their own services, but are allowed to manage all other traffic so that their systems are not overwhelmed.Nonetheless,Verizon is challenging the FCC's right to set rules on net neutrality. "We are deeply concerned by the FCC's assertion of broad authority to impose potentially sweeping and unneeded regulations on broadband networks and services and on the internet itself," said Michael Glover, Verizon's general counsel."We believe this assertion of authority is inconsistent with the statute and will create uncertainty for the communications industry, innovators, investors and consumers."The challenge was expected. Following approval of the FCC's open internet regulations in December, Verizon filed a similar suit earlier this year, which was thrown out after the court determined the complaint was premature. Publication of the rules on 23 September in the Federal Register gave Verizon its opportunity to mount a fresh challenge.The rules are illegal because they would modify Verizon's existing spectrum licenses without its approval, the company said in a notice of appeal filed on Friday at the US district court of appeals in Columbia.Those arguing for an open internet say the FCC rules do not go far enough, giving mobile carriers too much freedom to throttle traffic.Media reform group Free Press filed a suit in a Boston appeals court on Wednesdayarguing the regulations were too weak."When the FCC first proposed the open internet rules, they came with the understanding that there is only one internet, no matter how people choose to reach it," said Free Press policy director Matt Wood."The final rules provide some basic protections for consumers, but do not deliver on the promise to preserve openness for mobile internet access. They fail to protect wireless users from discrimination, and they let mobile providers block innovative applications with impunity."
Ico &amp; Shadow Of The Colussus HD, PS3Two videogame legends arrive in new HD versions on the same disc. Ico tells the story of an outcast boy and the lost girl he befriends in a vast castle. Almost without words and featuring nothing as crude as scores or on-screen instructions, you're left with the interplay of light and shade and the lugubrious howl of the wind as you tackle its beautifully designed puzzles and intruding smoke monsters. Shadow Of The Colossus, meanwhile, has you stalking, clambering on to and killing a series of giant, silent colossi in order to win back the soul of your dead girlfriend; their eventual deaths providing bittersweet moments of victory tinged with sadness. Both are remarkable and singular experiences.Sony, £34.99F1 2011, PS3 &amp; XboxF1 2011Formula 1 is intrinsically complex, demanding teams of experts to set up and maintain cars and their accessories, while drivers need to know the nuance of every corner of every track. Making that degree of intricacy fun is a demanding job in itself and F1 2011 shifts the series' balance towards simulation, which means that once driving aids (traction control, braking and steering assistance) are turned off, it becomes both more involving and much more difficult. You will feel as though you've genuinely earned that grid placement next to Jenson Button.Codemasters, £34.99-£44.99Eurogamer RoundupZelda: Skyward SwordThis year's Eurogamer Expo was relocated to the travel-friendly spaciousness of Earls Court and gave gamers a chance to play the triple-A games that will be on sale between now and Christmas. Highlights included Nintendo's great white hopes, Mario Kart 7 and Super Mario Land 3D, designed to help flagging sales of the 3DS and Zelda: Skyward Sword, a role-playing game made with the Wii's interface very much in mind. Batman: Arkham City showed off more elegantly crafted caped crusading, while the chaotic post-apocalyptic shenanigans of RAGE were all the more exciting for being available to buy next week. Skyrim was possibly the brightest star, giving players a tantalising glimpse of its gorgeous open world.Games newsResident Evil 4In a week of HD remake madness,Resident Evil 4andCode Veronica Xare both now available on Xbox Live and PlayStation Network, although anyone hoping for the definitive edition of Resident Evil 4 will be disappointed with a version only modestly enhanced since its now dated GameCube outing …Electronic Arts' all-conqueringFIFA 12has arrived, and withPro Evolution Soccer 2012due on 14 Oct, the two arch-rival togger titles will be going toe-to-toe once more …The excellentDriver: San Franciscois now out for PC and Ubisoft's memorably surreal shooter,Child Of Edenmakes its PlayStation 3 debut, finally giving PS Move owners something useful to do with their Wii-esque peripherals …AndX-Men: Destinylets you become part of the Brotherhood of Mutants from the comfort of your own sitting room.
Ah, it's that old problem: a big red people carrier and not enough people to carry.It happened beforeand I found some children – more like Dickensian urchins than proper children, really – to come for a ride. They were happy to trade in their opinions in exchange for some time in the warm.So I return to the same street, and happily three of them are still there. I mean, I'm happy they're still there; I don't imagine they are. I'm not sure what's happened to the others, they probably perished in the cold spell last winter. Terrible business.One of them – Ben, 17 – is enormous now, at least 6ft 2in, a big gangly, dangly young man. So he can go in the third row, in the very back. Ha. Alice, 13, you're in the middle. And Kate, also 13, can ride up front with me because she says she knows how to write, so she can take notes.Later, after our rigorous test drive, she gives me a piece of paper with these so-called notes: "Smells funny, brilliant sliding door, very back a bit cramped, Alice says table not straight but she can charge phone (good), quite nice and modern, stripy seats, cool compartment big enough for a&nbsp;guinea pig, terrible driver."Maybe some explanation is required. The funny smell is just new-car smell. The automatic sliding door is excellent, as she says, and makes access easy, even to the third row. It's cramped there only because Ben is a giant. Alice's table – the one that folds down from the back of the front seat like on a plane – isn't level, it slopes towards her. But she doesn't care when she finds out she can charge her phone. I have no idea what Kate means about the terrible driver. And stop saying I'm your uncle, we went through all that last time.Enough of these ridiculous children, time for the expert's view. Yeah, quite good. I mean, no one actually likes a people carrier, but this is about as likable as they get. It's enormous, grown in length and width since its last incarnation, but surprisingly lithe to drive. Finding a parking space big enough is hard, but once you do it has sensors to help. Inside it's clean and unfussy and works well. The extra length and width means there's tonnes of space, access is good and the seats all fold away rather ingeniously to turn it into a van. It even looks quite handsome, and it's good value, compared with the opposition.Right, now we need to go back to fetch the guinea pig, to see if that compartment really is a suitable place for it to live. I think they might be planning to leave it in there, to be honest – they've been trying to get rid of it for ages. Well, it can be a&nbsp;nice surprise for the next motoring journalist, one of my so-called rivals, to take the car out.Seat Alhambra SE 2.0 TDI Ecomotive 140PSPriceAs tested £26,070Top speed120mphAcceleration0-60mph in 10.9&nbsp;secondsCombined fuel consumption50.4mpgCO2 emissions146g/kmEco rating7/10In a wordBus
Dan Russell's official job title is uber tech lead for search quality and user happiness at Google. He teaches people how to use Google – sometimes with an attentive Sergey Brin lurking alongside.He is one of the battalions of people at Google tasked with improving search, but was also part of the small team who famously tested 50 different shades of blue on Google links to see which got more clicks. Data is king at Mountain View."We were playing around with colours, and one of the questions that came up was what if we removed the underlining – so we did that – and it turns out people don't like it," he said of the experiment 18 months ago. "It slowed everybody down by a significant amount."We got all this data and didn't really understand it. Just that some shades did better than others. Mostly if you look at it you can't tell, but behaviour changes."Russell joined Google in 2005, when the company would be running a couple of dozen experiments at any one time on how its users search. Now Google runs hundreds at the same time. (Russell repeatedly declined to show me examples of tests happening right now.)"One thing to know is that Google is always experimenting, and every time you see it something is different. We're doing millions of tests," he said.Although Russell hasn't lost his bounce, this obsessive attention to detail grates on some. The designer Douglas Bowman left Google in March 2009 with a revealing parting-shot at his former employer, you'll recall. Bowman, who has since joined Twitter as its creative director, said at the time:"I had a recent debate over whether a border should be three, four or five pixels wide, and was asked to prove my case. I can't operate in an environment like that. I've grown tired of debating such minuscule design decisions. There are more exciting design problems in this world to tackle."Russell is undeterred. What does Google need to get better at? "Dog fooding," he says. "Sometimes the truth is we launch something [feature changes] when we think it's good enough to get us to the next step, and we need to actually test it on live users rather than just Googlers. So that's the dog-fooding step."
There's a school of thought which states that the future of video games lies in the cloud, and the arrival of OnLive – the first credible cloud-based gaming service available to consumers – offers a great opportunity to test such claims.Head for its website, and you will discover an impressive level of flexibility – once you've signed up (for free), you can pay to stream a large library of games to your PC, Mac or, via downloading apps, iOS or Android tablet. But, most impressively, you can buy a micro-console that lets OnLive operate through a bog-standard TV.The latter setup represents OnLive at its most compelling – on the PC, you can buy boxed copies of most of the games for similar amounts to what OnLive charges (although there's a PlayPass subscription option, for £6.99 per month, that gets you free access to 100-plus games and discounts on new releases).It's true that it gives Mac users access to games about which, hitherto, they've only been able to dream – such as Batman: Arkham Asylum, BioShock, Deus Ex: Human Revolution and Borderlands – and the same applies to the tablets, although they remain hamstrung by their familiar control-system issues.But if you fork out £69.99, you get a tiny box roughly the size of two cigarette packets, a controller (which is pretty reminiscent of that of the Xbox 360) and a bunch of cables including, commendably an HDMI.Plug it into your TV and your broadband router, and you're taken to a home screen which lets you jump instantly into a library of games which is generally pretty impressive – full titles are mixed up with shorter XBLA/PSN-style games including the likes of Braid – although it does have some conspicuous gaps, such as the complete absence of anything published by Electronic Arts, Activision or, of course, rival console manufacturers Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo.Nevertheless, there are some absolute gems to be found, and the overwhelming impression is that it would provide the perfect, low-outlay introduction to games for someone who has never owned a console.It has some tricks up its sleeve, too. You can use it to jump straight into multiplayer games like Homefront, and you can spectate on games being played by anyone on the system. Plus you can record clips of your finest moves, and upload them straight to Facebook.The enabling technology behind OnLive converts the graphics of games running on the system's servers to video, which it streams to you without having to go anywhere near a graphics processor. But that strength is also a weakness in one crucial respect: the quality of the visuals it provides is entirely dependent on the speed of your broadband.Unable to acquire more than 2Mbps bandwidth, we found that visually, it lags way behind the graphics of the current crop of consoles (perhaps approaching the performance of the original Xbox). We reckon it would take about 8Mbps for it to approach the visual polish of the Xbox 360 or PS3.You often notice a blockiness typical to video-compression and, of course, when you experience broadband slowdown spikes, the graphics become murkier.That doesn't necessarily detract too much from your enjoyment of the games: older titles such as Borderlands never looked great anyway, and one aspect of the system that is mightily impressive is the complete absence of any discernible lag in the controls.If visual aesthetics are a concern, and you don't have access to the fastest broadband available in this country, OnLive probably isn't for you.But if you're looking to generate a gaming library from scratch, without paying huge amounts of money on a pile of games and a pricey console, plus are happy to forgo the big blockbusters such as Modern Warfare 3, Fifa, Battlefield 3 and their ilk, then OnLive should make you very happy indeed.And when super-fast broadband becomes widely available, it will become a much more attractive proposition. OnLive isn't the future yet – but it will be one day.
Women's rights activists in Britain and the US have accused Facebook of promoting rape and "rape culture" after the social networking site refused to take down pages on which users made jokes and apparent confessions about sexual assault.Petitions urging the site to remove pagessuch as "You know she's playing hard to get when your [sic] chasing her down an alley" have been signed by more than 3,600 people in the UK and 175,000 people on the US websiteChange.org.They say the material found on the pages is a clear violation of Facebook's terms and conditions, which bar hateful or threatening content. "This is hate speech," said Jane Osmond, who has campaigned on behalf of the UK petition. "I find it very disturbing that Facebook don't appear to see the connection between pages such as this and the prevailing rape culture we have in our society."Facebook has refused to take the offending pages down, insisting they are intended to be "a place where people can openly discuss issues and express their views"."Direct statements of hate against particular communities violate our statement of rights and responsibilities and are removed when reported to us," Facebook said. "However, groups that express an opinion on a state, institution, or set of beliefs – even if that opinion is outrageous or offensive to some – do not by themselves violate our policies."The refusal to act has incurred the wrath of campaigners on both sides of the Atlantic. A statement from Facebook likening the content to a rude joke that "won't get you thrown out of your local pub" did nothing to calm tensions.In England and Wales,hate speech legislationhas been balanced to avoid curbing freedom of speech: while much of the content on the internet may be offensive, it is not illegal unless it stirs up hatred on the grounds of race, religion or sexual orientation. Content that threatens or harasses people because they are disabled or transgender is also against the law.Osmond, a contributor toWomen's Views on News, said she understood that the internet was a place where people could post offensive material. But she said: "Maybe as a society we need to progress the dialogue about what is freedom of speech and what responsibilities do we have to certain groups of people. It almost has to reach a critical mass before there's a change. So, for instance, you cannot make racist comments now. I want to see the same thing about rape."One of the less graphic comments posted said: "This page is a joke, if you can't see the humerous [sic] side (one of my best friends {a girl} has been victim to it and can laugh at this) then don't join the group, as if any of these people have actually raped someone. Why so serious dude it's ... Facebook ... Get a life."Facebook pointed out that it is far from being the only host of so-called rape jokes, with similar content found elsewhere on the internet and on the comedy circuit. Jimmy Carr, Russell Brand and stand-up comic Reginald D Hunter have included rape or sexual assault in theirrepertoirein recent years. Some female comics, such as Sarah Silverman and Wanda Sykes, have also broached the subject.But many remain steadfast in their belief that rape – whether in a sophisticated comedy routine or on a misspelled internet forum – is never a laughing matter. Jo Brand has spoken out against a new form of misogyny in comedy, while those dealing with the effects of rape in the real world are adamant about the malignant effect that such comments can have."I can't find the punchline in 'I love raping bitches out in the cool night air, don't complain sluts or your (sic) next,' " said Fiona Elvines from Rape Crisis South London."Of course, it's your right to joke but I would question why anyone would want to joke about something that is so hurtful to so many people. If it's a joke that's supposed to be funny and instead of people laughing, people are being hurt, why would you continue saying it? What are you trying to prove? Or, perhaps more importantly, whose rights are we protecting?"Elvines added that over recent years there had been a rise in vitriol directed at those talking about the reality of rape. "Messageboards and pages such as [the ones on Facebook] are covered with men calling survivors of rape vengeful liars and painting a picture where the truth is hidden," she said.
Google is to invest €75m (£65m) in a new 11-acre data centre in Dublin, creating 230 jobs.The search giant said Ireland's naturally cool climate contributed to its decision, as it will use outside air to cool equipment instead of costly air-conditioning units.The announcement comes just two weeks after Google opened a €200m data centre in Finland, again chosen because of its climate. The centre in Hamina has pioneered a new seawater cooling system which uses a tunnel of water from the Baltic Sea to save electricity.At a press conference in Dublin on Friday, Google said its data centres use 50% less energy than typical facilities.Google already operates one data centre in Dublin, where it employs 2,200. The new centre is designed to help Google keep up with the growing demand for storage due to cloud computing, but it will also help to power searches, Gmail and Google Maps.Some 200 construction workers will be employed on the site over 12 to 15 months. Once operational, the data centre will employ 30 staff.Google's continual investment is helping Ireland to build a reputation as a green silicon state, with a cluster of internet companies setting up international headquarters in Dublin including Facebook, LinkedIn, Zynga and Twitter,which earlier this week announcedit had chosen the Irish capital over London for its European expansion.Irish minister for jobs Richard Bruton said the cloud computing industry offered Ireland a massive opportunity for jobs and economic growth.
Facebook is to be investigated by the Irish privacy regulator into how it handles users' data across Europe.In the next fortnight the Irish data protection commissioner will launch a wide-ranging privacy audit of the social network after complaints about how Facebook tracks its users online.The Irish regulator will conduct the audit on behalf of authorities in 27 European states, including the UK. The commissioner expects to complete the report before the end of the year, a spokeswoman for the regulator said.Facebook is also under pressure in the US, where the Federal Trade Commission is considering an investigation into the popular website followingcomplaints from a coalition of privacy campaigners.The social network is under the spotlight after changes made last week to how Facebook stores information about its 800 million global users.On Wednesday, Facebook  hastily fixed an issue that meant its users were being trackedeven when they left the network. Facebook has consistently argued that it did not store the information.A spokeswoman for the Irish data protection commissioner said on Friday the Facebook probe would be its "most intensive" to date, due to its popularity.The Irish regulator launched the investigation after it received 22 separate complaints from the online watchdogEurope versus Facebook. The group first lodged complaints with the commissioner about Facebook on 18 August, with the latest filed on 19 September.Most of the complaints focus on how Facebook stores information about its users, including allegations that it does not delete information which it says has been removed and its use of facial recognition technology to tag users' photographs.Facebook says the issue about deleted information most likely relates to users' removing a post from a part of the social network without fully deleting it, adding that facial-recognition software can be switched off in the privacy settings.Investigators from the commissioner's office will conduct the audit at Facebook's Dublin premises in mid-October. Facebook employs 300 people in the Irish capital.A spokeswoman for Facebook said: "Facebook's European headquarters in Ireland manages the company's compliance with EU data protection law. We are in regular dialogue with the Irish data protection commissioner and we look forward to demonstrating our commitment to the appropriate handling of user data as part of this routine audit."On Thursday, users of the online forum Redditflooded Facebook with requests to send out hard copies of personal datait holds on its users. The campaign followed complaints from users of Spotify and other media websites that everything they watched and listened to online was being automatically shared on the social network.Facebook users have to opt-in to the automatic sharing function, but some have found it overbearing.Spotify introduced a "private listening" feature on Thursday, in response to users who complained that they didn't want Facebook friends being notified of every song they listened to.
Researchers at Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT) in Australia and Germany are developing an in-car entertainment system that aims to solve the age-old "Are we nearly there yet?" problem with the aid of motion controls and holographic displays.Tentatively titled Enjoyable Interactions in the Rear Seat, the project will attempt to mix holographic displays and off-the-shelf motion sensing technology similar to gaming systems like the Microsoft Kinect and the Nintendo Wii to create a variety of rear-seat applications designed for use on long car trips by both adults and children.Dr Steffen Walz, director of RMIT's Games and Experimental Entertainment Laboratory (GEElab), says the idea for the project came from looking at cars not as mere means of transport, but rather as symbols of personal freedom.The joy of traffic jams?"Where's the fun in driving if you're constantly stuck in traffic jams? What we're trying to do is find ways to entertain people during the journey itself, so they focus less on reaching their destination quicker and more on enjoying the car itself. The kind of technology we're trying to develop, particularly holographic displays, will work very well in the confined, cocoon-like space of a car."The system would use a combination of sensors built into the rear seat armrests and screens built into the backrests to create three-dimensional images controlled purely by upper-body gestures. Walz envisions a range of applications for the system, from motion-controlled video games to office programs that would allow passengers to check email and perform video calls without a keyboard or any kind of remote control.On a broader scale, Walz says the system could also be used for social applications, educational programs that teach children about their immediate surroundings, and even a matchmaking application that would scan passing vehicles for potential dates.Putting pen to paperWalz, who runs GEElab from Germany, and his team have been commissioned to build the prototype for GEElab's industry partner Audi, who jumped onboard early to sponsor the project. The team has already conducted a dry prototype test run – pens and paper – with a group of children, asking them imagine all kinds of educational applications that they could control with their fingers and hands.Most of these scenarios involved simple word-association games, and tasks that required children to pick an object from real life (one they would see while sitting in the car) and answer questions about that object.While Walz believes such applications would provide educational and social benefits for children, he also acknowledges that some parents may criticise the system on the grounds that it has the potential to hinder human contact.Passenger focus"I have a 22-month-old daughter and I would never build something that would break down communication between her and me," he says. "I envisage this as something that will engage all passengers in a collaborative manner. We're trying to think of this as something that will encourage communication and interaction between families, as well as educating children."This involves developing educational applications to allow parents in the front seat to set tasks that require a combination of real-world and virtual puzzle-solving and interaction. Walz and his team are also thinking about the problem of motion sickness, but have yet to find a solution for inclusion in the finished product.While there are no current plans to commercialise the prototype, Walz estimates the system could start appearing in passenger cars in the next five years. "We'll certainly have something to show for ourselves in the next couple of years, but technology like this takes a long time to develop. In an ideal world, this kind of in-car system will revolutionise driving and even help fix things like car sickness. If no one wants to use it, then we fail. But that's just how science works."
A selection of 14 apps for you today:March of the DinosaursWell-regarded book-app publisher Touch Press has unleashed its latest effort on iPad: March of the Dinosaurs. Following in the footsteps of previous apps The Elements and Solar System, the focus here is on dinosaurs, with 10 animated dinos to investigate, more than 65 illustrated story pages, video and voice narration from Doctor Who actor Kerry Shale. Touch Press worked with Wide-Eyed Entertainment on the app – that company was previously involved in the TV show of the same name.iPadLovefilm Player for iPadFilm subscription service Lovefilm has launched an iPad player app enabling tablet users to stream movies, browse trailers and add to their physical DVD rental list. It's free to use for anyone on a £5.99-or-above subscription.iPadBBFCThe British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) has brought its iPhone app to Android, offering its full classification issues for every film given a rating in the UK. The idea: parents can decide when out and about whether a film is suitable to watch or rent, among other uses.AndroidLingo ZooKid-apps publisher Mindshapes has a new educational app out for iOS. Lingo Zoo offers a series of animal jigsaws, teaching children the names (in English and Spanish) for an array of colourful beasts.iPhone / iPadMy First Trainz SetRail simulator Trainz has a new spin-off app for iOS, aimed at a younger audience who want to create their own virtual train tracks and then chuff round them admiring the scenery.iPhone / iPadQuoraQuestions and answers service Quora has been long-hyped by tech blogs in the US, thanks to lots of Silicon Valley entrepreneurs being signed up and answering questions on their businesses. Now Quora has an iPhone app, which can be used to pose questions and write answers, as well as browsing other people's responses.iPhoneHipmunk Flight SearchUS travel website Hipmunk has launched its Android app, helping people to search for flights and find the best prices – although it has a handy feature to search by "agony" too, serving flights with the most painless lengths and changes.AndroidInside Nature's GiantsBook publisher HarperCollins' latest iPad app lets people "skin and spin" an array of creatures, from sharks and squid to polar bears, elephants and giant leatherback turtles. Tying in with the Channel 4 series of the same name, the animals can be zoomed in on and rotated, while swiping away their skin to reveal their innards. In an educational way, obviously, rather than gory.iPadFileKickerFileKicker is very interesting indeed. Created using messaging service Kik's new API, it enables Android users to send any file from their device to their Kik Messenger contacts, albeit with some degree of fiddling required to download the file if those friends are on iOS or Windows Phone versions of Kik.AndroidThe Adventures of Timmy: Run Kitty RunThis iPhone game is an attractive-looking platformer starring a boy named Timmy who wears a cat costume. As you do. It's notable not just for fun gameplay, but because it's apparently the first commercial game to use Adobe's HTML5 animation tool Edge.iPhoneBoss BattlesUS developer Backflip Studios has a new game out for iOS: Boss Battles. It's a shoot 'em up that pays homage to some classics of the genre, with a modern twist in the form of in-app purchases for weapons and power-ups.iPhone / iPadYo! Sushi Japanese CookbookAnother new HarperCollins app is on iPhone this week. The branded Yo! Sushi cookbook app has 55 recipes to try, with 26 videos starring the restaurant chain's training chef to give cooking tips. There's also a built-in shopping list feature.iPhonePaintopiaThere are bags of painting apps for iOS, but what about Android? Paintopia is well worth a look: aimed at beginners and experienced artists alike, it looks to have a good mix of digital brushes and painting tools.AndroidGoogle Developer Day 2011Google is holding a series of events around the world for web and mobile developers this year, and has just released an official Android app for the Developer Days.Android
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM denies PlayBook death, cuts sales price by 40% &gt;&gt; SiliconANGLE"RIM on Thursday denied allegations that the company will no longer continue to produce PlayBook tablet, saying the news was pure fiction. Some analysts have said the company may consider withdrawing from the tablet PC market all together. "RIM spokesperson Marisa Conway said 'the BlackBerry PlayBook will no longer produce the rumors are purely fictional, RIM is still committed to the Tablet PC platform, QNX system market and its future.'" It can't kill the PlayBook, because it's QNX, and it needs developers to write for QNX because that's the platform for its future phones. So it's going to take six months of financial pain instead.Ultrabooks expected to impact tablet PCs &gt;&gt; Digitimes"With notebook players such as Acer, Asustek Computer as well as Lenovo, Toshiba, Samsung Electronics and Hewlett-Packard (HP) all set launch ultrabooks in the near future, sources from PC players believe ultrabooks will start to have an impact on the tablet PC market. "Acer vice president Scott Lin pointed out that ultrabooks from notebook brand vendors will mostly be released in the fourth quarter and start mass shipping in early 2012; therefore, estimates for ultrabooks to account for 30% of the global consumer notebook shipments by the end of 2012 are reasonable and tablet PCs will be the first products to be impacted by ultrabooks."Brazil's $12 billion iPad deal is in trouble: sources | Reuters"A much-hyped $12bn plan for Taiwanese manufacturer Foxconn to produce iPads in Brazil is "in doubt" due to stagnant negotiations over tax breaks and Brazil's own deep structural problems such as a lack of skilled labor, government sources tell Reuters. "The proposal to build Apple's sleek tablet computers in Brazil was first announced in April by President Dilma Rousseff during an official visit to China. Senior officials hailed the deal as a sign of growing economic ties with Asia, and proof that Brazil was moving up the value-added manufacturing chain as its economy grows. "Yet the idea for a 'Brazilian iPad' prompted immediate skepticism back home, where factories have struggled for years with high taxes, an overvalued currency and a lack of qualified workers due to poor education and a tight labour market."Analyst: Microsoft gets $444M annually from Android licenses &gt;&gt; Puget Sound Business Journal"Microsoft Corp will rake in $444m in revenue in 2012 from its patent-licensing agreements with Android device makers, according to Goldman Sachs analysts. A day after Microsoft announced its latest agreement with Samsung -- the No. 1 smartphone maker in the U.S. -- Goldman Sachs estimates the Redmond giant is getting $3 to $6 per Android device sold." The per-handset is lower than most estimates, which run from $8 to $15. In which case it would be up to five times larger.Shop Samsung Galaxy Promotion &gt;&gt; Lowes.com"FREE Samsung Galaxy Tablet via mail-in rebate when you buy any Samsung washer and dryer set, refrigerator or range below. The tablet is valued at $349." Can you control the washer/dryer, refrigerator or range from the tablet? That would be pretty cool. Note that price. Pay no higher.Android tablet sales growing steadily &gt;&gt; Digitimes Research"Digitimes Research has analyzed figures from Google about the company's certified devices that have connected to Android Market each month, and pointed out that monthly sales of Google certified Android tablets grew from an average of less than 1m units in the second quarter of 2011 to 1.5m units in August, according to senior analyst of Digitimes Research, Luke Lin. "Within the figures, monthly sales of Android 3.x-based tablets are approaching the level of 7-inch Android 2.x-based products, and total sales of Google-certified Android tablets in the third quarter are expected to reach 4.5-5m units, accounting for about the 33%-50% of iPad's sales during the same period, while the annual sales are only expected to match 33% to 40% of iPad's sales, Lin noted." But they point to the fact that it took Android-based smartphones a couple of years to catch and then pass iPhone sales. (Note: free access to the page will lapse.)Amazon's New Kindles &gt;&gt; Daring Fireball"It's all about the content, though. That's the difference that other tablet makers missed. Motorola, Samsung, RIM -- they seem to be chasing the iPad on specs, building the best tablet they can manage at the same starting price of around $500. But they have no clear message telling people what you can do with them."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Hurrah, Friday! Released today are Fifa 12 and Sony's long-awaited Ico and Shadow of the Colossus HD re-release!
In the 1970s, Italian philosopherUmberto Ecotook a trip through the US. He stopped off at wax museums, Las Vegas and Disneyland and found a dense, semiotic landscape of fakes that trumped the relatively boring desert of the real. At one point on his journey, Eco wrote: "When, in the space of 24 hours, you go (as I did deliberately) from the fake New Orleans of Disneyland to the real one, and from the wild river of Adventureland to a trip on the Mississippi, where the captain of the paddle-wheel steamer says it is possible to see alligators on the banks of the river and then you don't see any, you risk feeling homesick for Disneyland, where the wild animals don't have to be coaxed. Disneyland tells us that technology can give us more reality than nature can."I reread Eco's Travels in Hyperreality recently when thinking about the manifold kinds of fakery in the digital age – fake Twitter feeds, phoney Facebook accounts,staged internet suicides, and those Wikipedia pages undetectably mined with lies. Today's digital technology offers us even more chances than Disneyland ever could to revel in hyperreal – or perhaps that should read cyberreal – fakery. And we eagerly explore those opportunities for reasons about which Eco was unwittingly prescient when in 1975 he wrote "the frantic desire for the Almost Real arises only as a neurotic reaction to the vacuum of memories; the Absolute Fake is offspring of the unhappy awareness of a present without depth."Hence, perhaps, some of my favourite satirical fake Twitter feeds. Such as "Dick Cheney": "Won a baboon on eBay. Condition as-is, but I'm going to use the little guy for parts anyway. Never know when the ticker might blow a valve." Or "Osama Bin Laden": "Door-tag from UPS Ground says hazardous materials can't be delivered – curse the infidels! Off to UPS depot." Or Transformers director "Michael Bay": "No, I don't know who 'Fellini' is and quite frankly I don't give a shit."Hence, too, ITV's risible recent booboo when it had to apologise for showing footage purporting to be from an IRA propaganda video that turned out to be footage from a video game. Its documentary Exposure was aimed at showing links between Gadaffi and the IRA. But what was hilarious about the story was not so much ITV's apology, but what Marek Spanel, chief executive of the game's developerBohemia Interactive Studio, told games website Spong: "We consider this as a bizarre appreciation of the level of realism incorporated into our games." The game looked so real that it could pass as something better than a fake.Or, too, phoney Facebook pages such as the one purporting to be that of a teacher in Bloomington, Indiana and including inappropriate messages to students, such as:"Happy birthday, you have my permission to get intoxicated."Now police are considering bringing charges of identity theft – if they can find the culprit.Perhaps Jennie Bone should also ask the police about her identity theft. Earlier this year, her husband Peter Bone MP raised questions in the house about tweets purporting to be from his wife that were really concocted by some so-farunidentified satirist. The impersonator posted comments on Twitter such as, "All eyes on PMQs – will Mr Cameron do his best to give me pleasure today? I live in hope"; "Liberal euronut bias even in Daily Mail today – is nothing sacred? EU won't bribe me with cheap phone bill"; and "Preparing stuffed marrow for dinner."Peter Bone told the Commons that his wife's twitterjacker "could put something racist or pornographic on at any time". Perhaps, but it seems unlikely: many fake Twitter feeds risk diverging significantly from the impersonated's real views or tones only at the risk of losing coveted plausibility. Last year, for instance, the great German philosopherJürgen Habermaswas twitterjacked. At 5.38pm on 29 January, "Jürgen Habermas" tweeted: "It's true that the internet has reactivated the grass-roots of an egalitarian public sphere of writers and readers." At 5.40pm: "It also counterbalances the deficits from the impersonal and asymmetrical character of broadcasting insofar as…" At 5.41pm: "…it reintroduces deliberative elements in communication. Besides that, it can undermine the censorship of authoritarian regimes…" At 5.44pm: "But the rise of millions of fragmented discussions across the world tend instead to lead to fragmentation of audiences into isolated publics."I fed these tweets into Google and found that they were all taken from footnote three to the English translation ofHabermas's funtime 2006 paperPolitical Communication in Media Society: Does Democracy Still Enjoy an Epistemic Dimension? Somebody had tweeted Habermas's real words without his imprimatur – hardly the hoax of the century. But Habermas told me later: "It irritated me because the sender's identity was a fake."Neither fake Jennie Bone nor phoney Jürgen Habermas, though, was as contemptible as what Professor Orlando Figes did. The historian posted disparaging reviews of books by rivals on Amazon, using the alias "historian" – and thus making him guilty of what's known as sock puppetry. His posts described Rachel Polonsky's bookMolotov's Magic Lantern"hard to follow" and Robert Service'sComrades"awful", while praising his study of Soviet family life,The Whisperers, for leaving "the reader awed, humbled, yet uplifted".To do a spot of sock puppetry or twitterjacking is so technically easy that, for some, it becomes irresistible. It can boost your reputation and damage someone else's – until that horrible moment you get found out. One of the lures doing so is, as Eco found, dull reality gets trumped by fakery. In dreary reality,the lesbian blogger in Damascusis an uninterestingly heterosexual American studying in Edinburgh.It's perhaps fitting that some of this fakery touched on the Middle East, since it was there that, according to the late French philosopher of the hyperrealJean Baudrillard, one of the modern world's biggest fakes, namely the first Gulf war, happened – or, rather,did not. Baudrillard argued that even though real violence happened in this alleged conflict, the US-led coalition was fighting a virtual war while the Iraqis tried to fight a traditional one – the two could not entirely meet. The suggestion that what happened in Kuwait and Iraq  in 1990-91 amounted to war was therefore, Baudrillard contended, a fake: rather it was "an atrocity masquerading as war".This is an age in which technology makes it easier than ever to lie or concoct fakes, but, quite often, makes it harder than ever to prevent oneself being found out. Michael Bay recently digitally inserted old footage of a chase sequence from his 2005 flop The Island in Transformers: Dark of the Moon – but wasquickly exposedby bloggers. The speed with which a fake is exposed is perhaps the only heartening aspect of this story.In another example, adventurerGreg Mortensonwas exposed for writing a bestseller that partially  faked his experiences among Pakistani villagers. He was hardly the first faux memoirist; indeed, you could sense Guardian journalists shaking their heads sadly as they typed: "The troubled world of book publishing has become almost wearily accustomed to receiving yet more bad news of a critically acclaimed memoir that turns out to have been partly or entirely fabricated."Mortenson is author of the bestsellingThree Cups of Tea, a memoir so convincing and moving that not only did the book sell 4m copies, but Barack Obama gave $100,000 of his Nobel prize to Mortenson's Central Asia Institute. It tells of how he stumbled into the village of Korphe, where locals saved his life and inspired him to give something back by devoting himself to building schools in the area. Only one problem: according to fellow adventurer Jon Krakauer, who has written an ebook called Three Cups of Deceit, none of that happened. "The first eight chapters of Three Cups of Tea are an intricately wrought work of fiction presented as fact," Krakauer said, accusing Mortenson of "fantasy, audacity and an apparently insatiable hunger for esteem". The extent of the fake is still being unravelled.A similar apparently insatiable hunger for esteem is, it is claimed, what motivated Independent journalist Johann Hari to plagiarise quotes for his interviews. In his initial mea culpa, Hari denied plagiarism: "When you interview a writer ... they will sometimes make a point that sounds clear when you hear it, but turns out to be incomprehensible or confusing on the page. In those instances, I have sometimes substituted a passage they have written or said more clearly elsewhere on the same subject for what they said to me, so the reader understands their point as clearly as possible."That was only part of his transgression. He also used a sock puppet "David r" to edit his Wikipedia profile and malign his critics.In one sense, perhaps, the Johann Hari who won many awards for his reporting is, like Disneyland's fake New Orleans, a hyperreal construct. Possibly, the actual Johann Hari suspected his intolerable mediocrity and so re-presented himself through online fakery. And, just as Eco felt a nostalgia for the fake Mississippi paddle-steamer trip when going on the phoney Disneyland one, so the disgraced Johann Hari may feel nostalgia for his faked-up hyperreal self.Hari is yet another example of what human beings do given half the chance – namely, present themselves as what they are not. Remember Second Life? Me neither, but apparently it allowed mediocre muppets (such as myself) to reinvent themselves as sexy avatars, as hyperreal projections of their fantasies. The digital age facilitates the creation of such alternative identities in cyberspace. PhilosopherSlavoj ŽižekinThe Cyberspace Realwrites: "The 'real' upon which cyberspace encroaches is thus the disavowed fantasmatic 'passionate attachment', the traumatic scene which not only never took place in 'real life,' but was never even consciously fantasized".Žižek writes that online we can create a "space of false disidentification", by which he means we can put on a mask to reveal who we want to be if not who we truly are. "Is this logic of disidentification not discernible from the most elementary case of 'I am not only an American (husband, worker, democrat, gay …), but, beneath all these roles and masks, a human being, a complex unique personality' (where the very distance towards the symbolic feature that determines my social place guarantees the efficiency of this determination), up to the more complex case of cyberspace playing with one's multiple identities?" Furthermore, online we can assume or play with fake identities – sadist, masochist, toxic blog-poster, cookie-jar-collecting weirdo – that we would never admit to or condone in the real world.But Žižek spots a lie in this purported revelation of our true selves online: "[T]he much celebrated playing with multiple, shifting personas (freely constructed identities) tends to obfuscate (and thus falsely liberate us from) the constraints of social space in which our existence is caught." Facebook friends may well not be real ones; losing yourself in your World of Warfare avatars' lifestyle issues wastes valuable time you could spend changing your real world.There is so much digital-age fakery that scepticism is readily engendered by anything that might seem phoney. When, for instance, Alex Thomas and Scott Jones were photographedsnogging in the streetduring the Vancouver ice-hockey riots earlier this year, some thought the picture wasfake. The shot looked so much like a photographer's wish fulfilment, it had to be phoney. But it wasn't.Viktor Mayer-Schönberger, professor of internet governance and regulation at the Oxford Internet Institute, says: "The digital age is difficult.  We're in a Foucauldian postmodern world where we can't tell the truth from fakery."Mayer-Schönberger argues that several things are happening in the digital age that undermine our ability to tell the fake from the real. "We see more and more of plagiarism in the digital age than in the analogue." But what is more problematic, he argues, is when faked information or faked personas pose as authentic. "In George W Bush's presidential campaign against John Kerry there was a report claiming Kerry's military record was faked. The internet was very fast as revealing that document was a forgery. Because it was put online, several experts saw that the document was typed on a typewriter that didn't exist in the 1970s and so the document was quickly exposed as a fake."This is heartening – the internet being the solution to, rather than cause of, fakery. But, for Mayer-Schönberger, the problem in the digital era is that we don't have heuristics or rules of thumb to expose its characteristic fakes. "In the digital world, by contrast with the analogue, the idea of original and copy doesn't apply any more." He points out that Adobe now advertises its flagship upgrade project as being able to take two photographs of a person and to transfer a smile seamlessly from one image to the other. There are also digital services in the US that will remove your ex-partner from your photos. "Is that fakery? Yes. Is that ethically problematic? I don't know, but legally it could be odd. Imagine your ex is charged with murder and she comes to you asking for those photos of your trip to Hawaii – which were taken at the same time as the murder took place somewhere else – as evidence to clear her name. But you've had her erased from the images. The technical tools are powerful but the social or legal or ethical tools can't keep up."Cyberspace, he argues, is so riven with fakes and errors that institutions have been compelled to take remedial action to maintain their integrity. Take Wikipedia. It had a crowdsourcing model of information dissemination – whereby entries could be written and corrected by anybody, the hopeful aim being that this process would result in pages that were unimpeachably true (a beautiful dream, but beautiful nonetheless)."But there was a problem," says Mayer-Schönberger, "that there  was a lot inaccuracy and fake information. Wikipedia needed to develop structures to overcome this problem and basically this has involved the return to an old hierarchy that the crowdsourcing model was supposed  to overcome. Now you trust not  the editor but the super-editor or  the super-super editor. It's hierarchy of trust."So what's his prognosis for online fakery? "It's going to get much worse because technical rules to stop it are often almost impossible to implement. When you send a jpeg you may have photoshopped it but there's no way of the recipient determining what has been photoshopped. You could just say it has been cropped rather than that the content has been changed – somebody taken out of the picture, someone else put in – but it is almost impossible to prove. Increasingly, you can't tell truth from lies in the digital age."Mayer-Schönberger and I conducted this interview on Skype  while he was holidaying in the  Austrian Alps. At one point, he held up his webcam to show me marvellous views of lakes and mountains.  Or did he? Given what digital tools  are capable of, perhaps that wasn't Austria or Viktor Mayer-Schönberger at all.• As the result of a production error, a number of the links in this article were broken. They have now been fixed.
The history of Sonic is essentially a Picaresque tragicomedy – in the best possible sense of the phrase. Unlike Mario, who has sauntered through the past 20 years gathering plaudits at almost every turn, Sonic has stumbled and fallen, and gotten back up, then fallen again.For every moment of genius (the first two titles, Sonic Rush, Sonic the Hedgehog Pocket Adventure) there is often something of a calamity. The combination of Shadow the Hedgehog, the 2006 Sonic the Hedgehog 'reboot' and Sonic Unleashed would have destroyed lesser characters. Sonic remains, bloodied, but unflattened.And so here comes Sonic Generations, a celebration of the past two decades of Sonic madness. The narrative explanation for this turbo-charged sprint down memory lane is that a mysterious new enemy is warping space and time; new Sonic has somehow gone back in time and met 2D Sonic and the two agree to join forces to defeat their new foe – hopefully without creating any apocalyptic space-time paradoxes; or Shadow the Hedgehog 2.Cleverly, the game revisits favourite stages and environments from hedgehog history and presents each to us in classic 2D and modern 3D forms. In the old skool levels, Sonic is restricted to his spin and dash moves and a side-scrolling landscape, while contemporary Sonic boasts a dizzying, swooping polygonal environment, together with homing attacks and other refinements that have been added through the years."The 2D and 3D play styles are totally different," confirms the game's director, Hiroshi Miyamoto. "The constant challenge was, how do we balance between providing something new and yet provide something that people recognise? For example, with Green Hill Zone, we wanted a fresh experience but we wanted people to recognise it and relate to it. Internally, we have rules about Sonic games. For example, if a title includes Chaos Emeralds, there must always be seven. However, when we transferred Green Hill Zone from 2D to 3D, there were no rules because it's never been done before. We really had to find the rules ourselves."At the heart of this dichotomy, though, is Sonic Adventure, the first title of the modern era, and the one where Sonic Team really started experimenting with the character and his world."That game was a personal highlight for me," recalls producer Takashi Iizuka, "but it was also one of my biggest challenges. It was the first time that Sonic evolved from a 2D side-scrolling platformer to a 3D action adventure. There were so many challenges we had to face. We didn't know what Sonic would be in a 3D environment – we had to go through a lot of trial and error to make it work. The hardware gave us a lot of new opportunities. It was a huge turning point."The consistent element is speed – eye-scorching, brain-befuddling speed. Astonishingly, it is still a USP in the platforming genre, and it's the reason Sonic perseveres. "On his debut, Sonic was a totally unique and new character," Iizuka. "I think people still remember how groundbreaking he was when he first arrived. And over the last 20 years, we've really kept in line with his essence, while at the same time developing innovative and interesting titles. I think that's how we've kept him fresh for so long."Sega showed two new levels at the Tokyo Game Show earlier this month: Emerald Coast for the 3DS version of the title, an oceanic romp based on Sonic Adventure; and Seaside Hill, a PS3 and Xbox level, drawn from Sonic Heroes. The handheld and console versions of the game will be based around the same concept, but will have different levels and bosses.How did Sonic Team decide on which stages to revisit? "We carried out research to see what people's favourites were," says Miyamoto. "We polled our studios in Japan, US and Europe. We also issued a questionnaire for fans from the public so we could get feedback from them."Because we have limited time and space for these stages, there are obviously some that we couldn't include, so a few fans may find their favourite stages aren't in the new home console version. But then, there's a good chance it could be in the 3DS version..."This handheld stereoscopic incarnation is a slick, 2D dash, with some lovely parallax effects. Emerald Coast sees a teeny Sonic blasting along wooden pathways and through loops, ending his run with a mad dash along a collapsing pier pursued by a killer whale.It's classic Sonic, with the sun glinting on the screen and the blue ocean rippling beneath, as you pick your way through multiple levels of walkways, spring pads and robot enemies. After two acts, the action ends with a typical special bonus stage in which Sonic runs down a translucent tube, picking up gems, avoiding bombs and attempting to track down a chaos emerald.The Seaside Hill level for PS3 features a classic 2D act and then a 3D act. Both sport lush seaside expanses, riddled with islands, multi-level runways and splashing dolphins. Sonic Team has succeeded in producing a very different feel for both sections: the 2D bits are all about horizontal speed and watching out for hazards.But the 3D act takes in a range of runways and mountains that cross over each other, allowing you to spot alternate routes as you zoom through. There are moments you can quickly select between three routes, which will all offer different challenges. In one section I find myself dropping into a car, which lets me super drift along a rolling road bridge and off onto a rail grinding section.It sounds like all the worst excesses from Sonic Heroes, but I really enjoyed the feel of it. The environments are beautifully drawn, extending off into a lovely sea vista, and it's fast, but also filled with visual cues about the best routes – though some are going to take time and commitment to find."Sonic's been around for 20 years, he has a large fanbase who have been following him since the beginning," explains Miyamoto. "They're a really core fanbase, so we need to make sure that the new game appeals to them too. We need to make sure that it has depth."To this end, we've put in a lot of alternative routes throughout each level so you don't have to tackle the level in exactly the same way every time. Some of the routes are also hard to find and hard to navigate, which allows us to stay in line with the underlying principle of Sonic – it's easy to play but it's hard to master."The accessibility remains a key focus. Sonic has survived for 20 years, not by simply retaining its ageing old skool fanbase, but by continually picking up new players en route. Titles such as Sonic and the Secret Rings, which fans have disliked, have often done okay because they've re-invented Sonic for a new platform generation. Somehow, the innate likeability of the character remains."The main challenge is to have the sense of fun instantly," says Miyamoto. "We need to make sure people are having fun as soon as possible – even if they're just watching the game. For example, when I saw Sonic as a kid for the first time, I was watching it as my friend's house. The sense of fun comes across for the spectators as well as the player."It's interesting, too, how familiar elements like the Sonic Adventure killer whale appear in both 2D and 3D zones, but in entirely different contexts. "I'm a Sonic fan and I feel we have included the essence of what was great from all the previous Sonic titles," says Miyamoto. "What we didn't want to do was just rehash the old games. We wanted to create an entirely new experience, which at the same time, tapped into classic Sonic. This game is constantly about new versus old."And part of the new is embracing steroscopic 3D on Xbox 360 and PS3. I've yet to try the game in this mode, but I imagine it'll be a dizzying experience on the "modern" stages.Intirguingly – and against the instincts of most hardcore fans – Miyamoto sees this as a natural move for Sonic: "In the megadrive era, when Sonic debuted, even though it was a 2D game the team really tried hard to provide a 3D experience. I feel that Sonic always wanted to jump out of the screen, he always had that desire!"Sonic Generations possibly isn't going to win the the veteran series anenormousarmy of new fans (or win over every single lapsed fanatic), but it looks to be one of the most solidly constructed and enjoyable instalments, building on the good work of Sonic Colors and Sonic 4 and skilfully re-working some of our favourite motifs and moments. It will certainly give committed old-timers and their progeny something to share and discover together. And it is the first Sonic I've actively, confidently looked forward to for a number of years.If this is a line drawn under the past, if this is a bright new dawn for our hero, what does the future hold for Sonic Team's icon? I jokingly ask if we're going to see Sonic survival horror, or a Sonic music game. "We do want to provide Sonic to people who don't necessarily enjoy action games," says Iizuka, with a wry smile. "You'll have to wait to see what we have in store for the future!"•Sonic Generations is released on Xbox 360 and PS3 on 4 November, and on Nintendo 3DS on 30 November.
Today, we're launching a newfront page for our video game coverage.Previously, we've had a sort of automated games page, entirely generated by keywords. The new version will allow us to edit the page more to ensure it highlights all the best stories, reviews, features and interviews, as well as our latest multimedia content, such as videos and galleries.Essentially it's about the Guardian recognising the importance of interactive entertainment and providing us with the tools to create a proper destination for gamers.Obviously, theGames blogwill continue as it always has done, but it will sit within a much more dynamic homepage. Hey, we even have aFacebook page, for heaven's sake. Other  features on the new homepage include:• A Google calendar that will keep you up to date with game releases and interesting events (so if you're running any game events,please let us know).• A feed of the latest posts from the games team's favourite blogs and websites.• And our Twitter feed now incorporates tweets from our games writers as well as@gdngames.Anyway, take a look at the page and let us know what you think. The next steps could well be a place for your own reviews and, gasp, a forum!
So here we go again. The annual iteration, the roster update, the Fifa gravy train chugs on… Except, EA Canada has neverreallybeen into the idea of making the same thing over and over again with just a serving of updated team sheets, a couple of fresh modes and a new photo of Rooney for the cover.Fifa 12 is … different. For months, EA Sports has been banging on about its three major changes to the match mechanics: close control, the player impact engine and the new tactical defending option. Turns out they weren't bluffing.After several hours of play, it's the latter that's emerging as the most important transition. As you'll know, the old trick of hitting the A button to send an AI defender hurtling toward the attacking player like an Exocet missile in polyester shorts is now gone. Well sort of. It's a little more complicated than that.In Fifa 12, there's a multi-layered system that now lets you hold the A button to "contain" the man on the ball – it brings the player you're controlling right up to him and you'll automatically attempt to shepherd your opponent into disadvantageous positions. It's neat, it's effective and it allows you to chain into a proper tackle, like a football beat-'em-up.That's pretty much as close as we get to the auto-defend nature of previous Fifa incarnations. Meanwhile, the jockeying function, accessed via the left trigger, allows you to face the incoming player and create a barrier between him and the goal; this can also be combined with the "run" button in order to deal with sprinting opponents.Many Fifa fans will find this forces a radical shift in their defensive philosophy, moving from a mobile approach of darting slides from the back and side and head-on nipping tackles, toward a zonal, more rigorously planned approach, where players get into position and block out attacks, only tackling when the ball is clearly there to be taken.Initially, I struggled to separate the contain and jockey functions – they're both about controlling the incoming player, after all, and for ages they seemed interchangeable. But then there's the "team jockey" option, sitting over on the right tab button.When held, this sends in a teammate to fulfil the more static goal protection, while you either move to cover any possible crosses, or run in and sweep the ball away. The Contain function is more erratic and independent; it's reactive.Ultimately, the two can be combined into a sort of phased approach, in which defensive midfielders hunt down and contain lone attackers while your defensive line uses the two jockeying functions. But however you use it, this is an interesting, adaptive and exhaustive system that shapes the game and gets you to think more about space and movement in your own half.Elsewhere, the updated player physics brings what you expect – a greater sense of physical presence. There's an option on the keypad that allows you to pull and tug at an opponent's shirt, and together with some crunching slide tackles you get a great sense of robust, solid bodies going into high speed collisions and meeting limbs in a realistic way.I was dreading a whole bunch of trips and falls, and indeed there are enough "Fifa 12 physics fail" videos on YouTube (all drawn from demo versions of the game, I guess) to suggest dynamic ragdoll physics is a dangerous substitute to bring on. But then, it's not all about collision, it's about reaction. Watching Silva dink around a stray leg, or Terry desperately lung at a passing ball, is gloriously authentic and exciting. Fifa 12, more than any football title before it, is a living embodiment of the unpredictable game.Outside of the matches themselves, there's an even more exhaustive range of options and extras. The social gaming spin-off Ultimate Team is present in the retail edition of Fifa for the first time, allowing you to start the card-trading fun with free packs (as ever, you'll need to buy new packs to complete your dream team, though).This is probably a smart business decision by EA – it means everyone gets to try it out, and many will bite. Virtual Pro is also there, allowing you to create your own player from scratch, and the usual tournament and live season options are present with timely presentational tweaks.Career Mode is essentially what we remember from Fifa 11, allowing you to experience the career of a player, manager or player manager through a whole lifetime in the game, transferring from one club to another, dabbling in the transfer market and competing for league and cup glory. The interface is more logical now, with masses of info packed into the main screen.And – for managers – the tactical screens have changed, removing the "Player Growth" option, which let you monitor the ratings of your squad members, in favour of two more useful options: squad report and squad ranking, which give a Football Manager-style overview of who is doing their job and who blatantly isn't.The mode is, however, still ever-so-slightly lightweight and I still don't feel I have a way to truly guide and develop younger squad members beyond constantly playing them and hoping for the best. But it's a diverting long-term challenge that gives you a structured chance to play as lesser-known teams and really get to live the game beyond the Premiership and La Liga.It could be, though, that the key challenge will be the new online head-to-head season mode, which lets players compete against each other in league and cup competitions. All participants begin in the lowest league and seasons lasting between 10 and 14 games decide who will be promoted and relegated. It's a smart set-up, which should ensure that newcomers aren't consistently battered by elite gamers – but it will be weeks before we know how reliable and stable the experience is.Beyond all this of course, is the EA Sports Football Club, the new social networking service for Fifa players. Here, friends will be able to compare stats and achievements, while challenging each other to online friendlies.As with Need For Speed's Autolog, this could be the spark that gets mainstream gamers online and competing in broader communities. Again, it's too early to say how this will go, but the infrastructure is in place and the menu system looks logical, offering a news wall, leaderboards and the Challenge option where you get to take on specific football tasks, based on real-life games.But of course, the key to everything is what happens on the pitch. And everything is happening out there.There are some astonishingly accurate depictions of top players, the animations is fluid and expressive, the commentary is authentic, despite (or perhaps because of) a few very regular repetitions. The fact that Alan Smith and co will discuss your team's position in the league and its form over the last few matches, really adds to the sense of occasion.Crossing is still something of a bugbear. Unless you've got Ashley Young running down the flank and a largely absent back four to face, you're 80% certain the ball will be lofted to safety. However, central play has been made more fruitful via the refined close controls on the left trigger that slow your player down and allow him to guard the ball while he picks out a pass.I hardly used any of the close-dribbling options in Fifa 11, but this pace-changing tactic is swiftly becoming a key part of my approach now. I know that some have suggested the whole game is too slow, and compared to the breathless PES 12, it is certainly more … measured. I have no problem with that - it calls for a more of a thoughtful, probing approach.AI seems solid, though often a lot more so from defenders blocking your path than from team mates interpreting your play. I've found on numerous occasions that you'll wait in vain on the edge of the box, your fingerpoised over the through ball or flair pass buttons just praying for someone to start a run behind the centre backs. Of course, hitting the shoulder tab commands another player to make a run, and this works beautifully in midfield, but personally, I'm just not getting it to play out while close to the 18 yard area. Practice, I suspect, will be the key.More often than not you need to move away or pass back and rebuild the attack. And against computer-controlled teams on the highest AI settings you'll find it incredibly, maddeningly, gut-wrenchingly difficult to score, while they'll sometimes breeze through your best defensive endeavours as though playing in a parallel dimension.Ah, but when things do go right, when that chipped ball into the stride of Edinson Cavani ends up rocketing in the back of the net, it can be euphoric stuff; and you are only ever hours of practise and two or three brilliant passes away from the next dose.Honestly though, the real beauty of the game is in its two-player mode – that's what gets the five stars in the end. I know I'll be playing this all year, mastering new aspects, trying new teams, experimenting with the EA Sports Football Club, watching the online leaderboards. A year's worth of play is good value, and value is important in this day and age.So, yes, here we go again. The annual iteration, the roster update, the accusations of cashing in, cashing up, moving on. Fifa is a symbol now of what the games industry has become – a digital Hollywood, a hit factory, with behemoth franchises, caged in and milked for all they're worth; a grinding production line of choreographed retail launches and endless DLC updates. It used to be just the annual sports titles, now it's everyone.And yet out of this can come a game like Fifa 12. A game that isn't perfect, and that won't suit everyone, but that absolutely reeks of effort, of care, of love for the sport. Blast EA and its peers for the way they run their businesses if you want to, but recognise this: with friends, with practice, with a will to re-think your approach to defence, Fifa is an absolute joy to play.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
A community website appeared to have got the better of Facebook on Thursday after a guerilla campaign overloaded the social network with requests to send out hard copies of personal data it holds on its users.The campaign, blatantly calledHow to annoy Facebook, was started by a user on the social news site Reddit and quickly became the number three story in its "what's hot" section.Under some data protection laws in Europe, Facebook has to send a hard copy – likely to be a CD – of your personal data. In the case of the UK and Ireland, it must send out a CD within 40 days.However, the group's mischief may be somewhat stymied by the fact that Facebook does not have to supply the information in the format requested.The UK information commissioner's office told the Guardian that Facebook could lawfully send out the data by email, or whichever format was the most convenient. The social network could even direct users to its "export your data" webpage if that satisfied the request.Facebook evidently has been flooded with requests — according totechnology blog ZDNet, the company's data access request team have been forced to send out emails telling users there will be a significant delay in getting their personal data out to them.The amount of data would include a user's photo gallery, social calendar, wall posts and all other personal data such as date of birth. ZDNet reported that a typical personal data file will be a PDF that runs to more than 1,000 pages and more than 100MB in size.The watchdog websiteEurope vs Facebookreceived a 780-page personal information file – 34MB in size, roughly the same as eight MP3 music tracks – whenit requested datafrom Facebook.Facebook had not responded to a request for comment at the time of publication.The online campaign follows fresh privacy concerns about what data is held by Facebook after it launched features last week that automatically share what users are watching, reading and listening to on certain sites.Spotify attracted criticism for the changes, which meant that every song a user listened to was automatically shared on Facebook, unless the user explicitly opted out.The Anglo-Swedish streaming service on Thursday introduced a "private listening" feature in response to users who complained that they didn't want Facebook friends being notified of every song they listened to.Daniel Ek, co-founder and chief executive of Spotify, announced the changeson Twitter. "We're rolling out a new client as we speak where you can temporarily hide your guilty pleasures. It works like a browser's private mode," hetweeted. "We call it 'private listening' and you can find it in the Spotify/File menu and toggle it on/off."
Dad is 73 and has struggled with an ancient, slow PC for many years. Now he reluctantly accepts that he should upgrade to a modern and fast laptop, which he will sometimes want to use in the conservatory. He needs access to the internet and email, transfer and storage of photos, and the simplest of word processors. Any suggestions around the £350 to £500 price range?Ian StephenDad is right in the middle of the mass market for what we call "desktop replacement" laptops, where hundreds of very similar PCs compete mainly on price. He doesn't need his new laptop to be thin-and-light, he doesn't need long battery life, he doesn't need high-resolution graphics, 3D or Blu-ray, and he doesn't even need a particularly fast processor.Almost any PC with a 15.6in screen should do the job, though you might consider buying one with a big 17.3in screen instead. And while you could come in under budget, I'm going to encourage you to think about buying a few extras as well.Eyesight tends to deteriorate somewhat with age, so I'd go for at least a 15.6in screen, which will display exactly the same information as a typical 13.3in laptop screen: 1366 x 768 pixels. The 15.6in screen just means that text and icons will be bigger and easier to see. Laptops with 17.3in screens generally display more information on the screen, the typical resolution being 1600 x 900 pixels. Bigger is usually better, but a 17.3in laptop will tend to be a little heavier – closer to 3.0kg than 2.5kg – and this may be a consideration if it's moved a lot.Regular readers will know that I'm a big fan of this year's Intel Core iX range, codenamed Sandy Bridge, and the mid-range Core i5 is often the best choice. (The Core i3 is cheaper and slower, but lacks the TurboBoost, while the Core i7 is faster but pricier.) Sandy Bridge is probably the way to go for longevity.However, the popularity of the Core iX range means there are bargains running earlier designs such as Intel's Core 2 Duo range and Pentium and Celeron brands. (Nowadays, they're not actually Pentium and Celeron chips.) These will provide a huge improvement on your dad's current system, and his applications don't require anything better. Even slower processors would be usable, as long as they are dual-core and, preferably, include hyperthreading.Most laptops in the "desktop replacement" category have 15.6in screens, 3GB or 4GB of memory, a 320GB or 500GB hard drive, DVD writer, and 64-bit Windows 7 Home Premium. Most have Intel integrated graphics on the motherboard (sharing main memory) but some have dedicated graphics processors to provide better performance. Most have a slot for SD (Secure Digital) memory cards, and your dad will find this extremely useful if he uses cameras, music players or mobile phones that also take SD storage cards.Low-end systems that you could consider include the Lenovo G560 (Pentium P6200,£299.99), Samsung RV510 (Celeron T3500,£289.98) and RV511 (Pentium P6200,£329.99), and the Asus K53E-SX195V (Pentium B940,£346.80). From this lot, the P6200 is the fastest processor, though only fractionally ahead of the B940 thanks to its extra on-chip cache memory.These are all under your budget, so you might want to spend a bit more and get a system with a Core i3 or even a Core i5. Examples include the Lenovo G570 (Core i3-2310M,£389.00), Samsung RV511 (Intel Core i3-380M,£424.60), Acer Aspire 5742 (Core i5-480M,£429.97), and Asus K52F-EX1238V (Core i5-480M,£423.60).Most of these systems are also available with 17.3in screens, but this is an area where Samsung's R series looks particularly competitive on price. Examples include the Samsung R730 (Pentium P6100,£399.99), the Samsung RV720 (Core i3-2310M,£478.99) and the RV11 with a P6200£408.92or a Core i3-380M£425.87. Another option is the Asus K73E-TY040V (Core i3-2310M,£478.80), and there are rivals from HP, Acer and Toshiba.The Samsung RV11-A03 has a resolution of 1366 x 768 pixels despite its huge screen, which might appeal to users with impaired vision. Otherwise, the Samsung RV720 (1600 x 900 pixels) might be the pick of this particular bunch.I've taken most prices from Amazon.co.uk because the site also offers a specification, reader reviews and star ratings. However, if you shop around, you may be able to find lower prices.If you want to compare the speed of the various processors, there is a comprehensive table at Notebook Check:Comparison of Mobile Processors (CPU Benchmarks). If you want to read reviews, look atTestSeek.A final choice can depend on things like a laptop's general appearance, visual screen quality, the feel of the keyboard and other personal preferences. It's always worth checking systems in a high-street shop or computer superstore to see if a particular model stands out. None of these systems is particularly stylish, but you are getting a big-screen computer with a keyboard, hard drive and DVD player for less than the price of many smartphones, it will last longer, and the running costs are a lot lower.Either way, I suggest you spend any money you've saved on an external hard drive to move your dad's data from his old Windows XP machine, using Windows Easy Transfer, and to provide a back up. (Windows 7 includes decent backup software but the HP Simple Save models will do backups automatically.) If he's used to using a mouse rather than a touchpad, an external USB mouse might be appreciated.Finally, do your dad a favour by installing the latest Windows updates, then download most of theWindows Live Essentialssuite, if not already pre-installed. This free suite includes a desktop email program that works well with Gmail (set to IMAP) and Hotmail, Messenger, an excellent Photo Gallery/organiser, and 25GB of free online space in SkyDrive. The email program automates the process of sharing photos by uploading the photo (or a whole folder of photos) to SkyDrive and emailing the recipient a link.Hotmail now provides access to web-based versions of Microsoft Office programs, and enables document sharing as well. Windows Live Mesh lets you synchronise documents and photos between different computers (including Macs), synchronise settings and Internet Explorer bookmarks, and connect to your PC remotely from a different computer. Finally, Windows Live Essentials integrates with Windows Phones, for the few that have them. It's an excellent set of programs that would be even more widely used if people actually tried it.As for "the simplest of word processors", Windows already includes a free one:WordPad. The new version in Windows 7 has an Office-style ribbon and a customisable Quick Access bar that makes most commands instantly available. It doesn't have many features so it is certainlyeasy to learn.  WordPad can't handle a wide range of formats, but it can open plain text, rich text files (.rtf), Microsoft Word documents (.docx), and OpenDocument Text (.odt) documents, which covers most needs. If not, the open sourceAbiWordis worth a look.
The indie games scene is not exactly short on retro-inspired bullet hell shooters. Since the likes of Mutant Storm and Geometry Wars arrived, you can't really move out there without bumping into aTreasure-referencing blaster. However, UK coder Charlie Knight has managed to carve a niche for himself via incendiary twitch-fests like Irukandji and Bullet Candy, and is now ready to release his latest assault on the senses and hand-eye coordination, Scoregasm.Over the summer, he was fixing bugs, adding a workable front end, designing logos and starting to look into distributors for the game. We caught up with him last week to find out how he feels about the title's impending release...So how do you feel about Scoregasm's impending release?Nervous. I've not felt like this about launching a game before – I'm putting it down to the amount of time and effort I've put in over the last two years, and maybe how attached I've become to working on it. My last couple of releases have been two or three week projects, and getting them out there hasn't been difficult because I've not really had time to develop too much of a thing with them, or to feel too personal about them. I guess it's time for me to cut the cord, and stop being so much of a twat about it.Have you got a definite release date?Yes! Well, sort of! I'm hoping to release on the 7th October, and providing I can get everything together in time I'll launch then.What were the key game systems you finished over the summer?The last major bit I had to add was the online scores system, which I'm super happy with. It's by far the best system I've had in any of my games to date (thanks Doug!), and has some cool features that I think players will like, especially the tagging feature that allows you to create your own boards for friends or user groups, etc.And apart from that, it's been about finishing everything off?Over the summer, I've been in what I guess is as close to crunch mode as I get, considering that I don't really do crunch mode. There's a lot more game to this one than some of my previous releases, which have all been pretty arcade-like in structure. Scoregasm is still arcadey, but it's been designed to be played at home, so it's much more pick up and play and there's a whole slew of extra games too. I've had some nice feedback from testers lately who aren't normally shooter players, who said they'd been surprised at how much they've enjoyed it and how quickly they've picked up how to play, which is very reassuring.Can you tell us about your engine?The game is written inBlitzmax, which is a kind of object orientated BASIC/C++ hybrid, and allows direct access to OpenGL which is what's used for rendering on all platforms. Along with this, I'm using MiniB3D for displaying models and creating cameras etc. It's a fairly basic engine, but it's quick and easy to work with, and works well across the different platforms I'm targeting. Where MiniB3D isn't so sharp is for things like particles and 2D imagery rendered into the 3D scene, so I wrote my own system that performs much better, and allows for many thousands of particles/lines/other stuff rather than the few hundred I could get using MiniB3Ds implementation.The game doesn't use shaders as I wanted it to run on everything, even those shitty laptops you get free with phone contracts. The super cool Peter Stock gave me some frameskip code a few weeks ago which I've added in, and although I've not seen it running myself, I understand it plays reasonably well on a 1Ghz Intel Atom netbook, which I'm pretty chuffed with actually!How about audio?Scoregasm is using BASS, which is a pretty decent cross platform library. Mostly I picked this one because the license isn't limited to one game if you're a shareware author (such as myself!), and it can stream audio nicely. You can get some useful data from audio streams with it too, like equalizer values in real-time for audio reactive stuff, although I haven't worked anything like that into this game.The last main bit of the core code is the online stuff I guess, which was pretty much dictated to me byDoug, who wrote the online score API. I'm using LibCurlSSL to communicate with the server securely, and he's build some cool features into the API for people to play with ( for example, the 'find me' feature, tagging for competitions and usergroups, and date range searches).Have there been any real killer bug problems?The final big bug I have to contend with before release is a nasty hardware dependent one – in this case 64bit Windows PCs with ATI graphics cards. This sort of thing can be a real shit, and I imagine more so for indie developers who don't have a wide range of hardware to test on, or the spare cash to just go out and buy a new machine to reproduce the issue. In this case, I've not had much luck with the crash reports testers have sent back to me, and because I don't have a machine that I can reproduce the crash on, it's a fairly tiresome trial and error process getting to the bottom of it. AAArrgh!So what's next?I want to learn some new stuff. I try to make sure I know everything I'll need to before I start writing a game, so that I don't encounter any surprises along the way that could cause a project to stall. I'd like to learn a bit more about modern rendering techniques, as I'm a bit stuck in the past as far as graphics technology goes. Shaders look very much up my street, so I'm really looking forward to finding out what they do! There is a suppressed desire to make some add-on packs for Scoregasm though, so I might do something like that first. I've got some really good ideas for new levels, but I guess it depends on how well the game is received.Right now, I'm working on a website for the game. I'm not a natural web coder, so it's been slow progress getting it to work well in various different browsers – IE I'm looking at you! But I'm pretty pleased with how it's coming along. With any luck, you'll all have seen it – and possibly even used the 'Buy Scoregasm' button – by the time the next Indie Dozen update happens!You can find out more about Charlie's games at his website, cleverly titledCharlie's Games.To find out more about Gamesblog's Indie Dozen project, gohere.
Towards the end of the Kindle Fire launch in New York on Wednesday, Amazon's chief executive Jeff Bezos introduced a new web browser technology called Amazon Silk. At the time, I was left wondering why, given that the various new Kindles that they were talking about were clearly so well thought through and elegant, there was suddenly this huge shift over to what at first glance looks like an entirely unrelated thing of little consequence. And then my Twitter stream lit up with people saying what a fab idea this was, and I was immediately confused.Silk: the split processing web browserThe logic with Silk runs along the lines in that your tablet is too weedy and too distant to do browsing properly. The approach is to "split" the processing between the Fire unit itself and Amazon's Web Services ("AWS"). I've an upcoming article in the pipeline that goes into much more detail on AWS, but for now the way that Amazon uses it with Fire is some of the AWS services to do some of the "heavy lifting" involved in producing the final, rendered web page that you're interested in viewing.I have a deep distrust of the term "heavy lifting". This is a phrase that Microsoft loves to use in developer communications. I always take it to mean "we are smarter than you, and therefore we have done this because you are too lame to do better yourself", which is why that what I think Amazon is doing is fundamentally flawed thinking.(You cansee some of the Silk developers talking about the project, and read Amazon's ownFAQ on Silk. )How Silk worksIf you think about a web page, it consists of the main content and a number of "assets" related to that page such as stylesheets and images. In the video cited above, one of the engineers refers to a given page as having 80 assets per page. He also refers to a latency of 100ms per asset request; the conclusion we're supposed to draw from this is that the average page load has an aggregate latency of 8s. Despite the fact that those numbers are somewhat spurious, his argument is that if those assets are already on AWS, the latency is 5ms. If we assume all the assets are in the cloud, the argument then goes that the part of Silk that runs on AWS can gather the assets to build the page in 0.4s. (I appreciate some of this is an oversimplification.) Therefore with the Silk the proposition is that we're looking at a 20-fold improvement in download times for the page.Part of the approach with Silk is that it uses AWS as a giant cache. This will have a network effect, in that if there are thousands of Silk users accessing a given site on a given day, a given stylesheet or image only needs to be fetched once from the source server, whereupon the other users can access the cached version. This is where Amazon's figures of 100ms versus 5ms comes from – the first person to read it via Silk still has to wait 100ms plus the time to incept the item in the cache, but the next several thousand get it in the faster time.I'm not convinced that this loading time performance chimes with my own experience. The YouTube page that I cited above loads in less than 1s with a clear browser on Chrome. This isn't an entirely fair comparison, because very large websites such as YouTube, Twitter, Google and even Amazon will do everything they can to drive page loading times down. Thus the argument with Silk is that it will help with pages where the site's owner is primarily concerned with getting content out there, as opposed to "enslickening" the page to the nth degree.Silk does this by crunching some of the data so that it's more friendly to the browser – such as by squeezing images and "minifying" (a technical term that relates to removing unnecessary white space and other bits and bobs) scripts and styles. Leaving aside for the moment that a good engineer will run minification and crunching tools at source, this feature of Silk is arguably a good thing.Another feature of Silk is that because Amazon is collecting data on aggregate user behaviour (more on this later) it can guesstimate what other assets it needs. So, if the engineers see a flurry of activity on themain Guardian America news page(for example), and they know that X% of people always go from there to theTechnology front page, they may pre-fetch the Technology section. Again, I'm not convinced about this – at scale, surely there will be too much information to make guesstimates that are any more effective than just making the first person wait longer, as I alluded to above.The principle behind Silk, although dressed up in flashy terms by describing it as splitting the processing between the device and a service in the cloud, is really just about getting the content closer to the user. This is something that Amazon is undoubtedly good at, but it's hardly original, because anyone with any serious investment in their web presence already does this with content delivery networks (CDNs) such as Akamai. Are you going to see any massive improvement browsing Facebook on Fire? I doubt it.PrivacyI'm going to skirt the issue of privacy because it's an emotive topic that's oblique to the topic in question. However, there are lots of people discussing the issue online. One writeup you might want to look at is the one byGraham Cluley at Sophos. Amazon insists it's only going to collect aggregate user data, not individual data. This could be an interesting row, though.Sorry – but why do we need this?I'm a great believer in the concept that "there is no such thing as an original idea", and in this case there isn't. Opera Mini already does this pre-fetching to its servers, and has been doing so since 2006. Opera's approach is less nuanced – the device connects to Opera's server, which then defers to the source server and looks to compress the data. There is, as I understand it, no inspection of the data and no caching of the assets in the way that Amazon does. Opera's motivation pertains to charges on the mobile data networks, because it's really widely used on mobile phones, especially in places where mobile data is expensive.AOL also used to do this with its proxy server network, the idea again being to draw the content closer to the user.Moreover (and this isn't a "I have an iPad isn't it wonderful" moment), my iPaddoesn'tdo this. It's perfectly happy to behave like a normal web browser – it makes a request, it downloads the source assets and renders the page. It behaves like a desktop browser. I'm pretty confident that most of you reading this won't now be sitting there going, "But Matt, browsing is so slow! We desperately need it faster!" The fact is that browsing is already fast and efficient.To be fair to Amazon, this approach does make more sense over a cellular network where the user needs all the help they can get. However, the first version of the Fire does not have a cellular modem. It's Wi-Fi only.As an industry we're pretty good at innovating, and we already know that a key thing that we can deliver to our users is to keep driving down wait times and driving up responsiveness. This is why we have fibre-optic broadband, and faster processors, and fatter pipes, and improving SSL performance and faster rendering engines. We're already doing this! Every day an army of us go out there to improve and optimise and deliver better performance from what we do.So I'm not really convinced that we need a small team of developers from a general good retail operation telling us that we're wasting our time and that the future is in a dynamic caching system on their cloud. For me, Silk is definitely in the box marked "vague curiosity".Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit
Nokia is to axe a further 3,500 jobs on top of the €1bn (£871m) cost-cutting plan announced by the troubled Finnish phone maker in April.Nokia will cut 1,300 jobs from its location and commerce division, which makes maps for Nokia phones, and close its Cluj factory in Romania, resulting in 2,200 job losses.The redundancies follow a year of upheaval at Nokia, still the world's biggest phone maker by volume.In April Nokia said it wouldcut 4,000 jobs, and transfer 3,000 employees to Accenture, as new chief executive Stephen Elop restructured the company to focus on smartphones.The new round of cuts bring the total number of job losses at Nokia to 10,500 – about a sixth of the company's worldwide workforce – since April."We are seeing solid progress against our strategy, and with these planned changes we will emerge as a more dynamic, nimble and efficient challenger," Elop said in a statement. "We must take painful, yet necessary, steps to align our workforce and operations with our path forward."Nokia has rapidly lost ground in the smartphone market, falling way behind competition from Apple's iPhone and devices running Google's Android operating system.The company on Wednesday began shipments of what is expected to be its final smartphone before it launches devices based on Microsoft's Windows Phone operating system.Nokia will announce details of its first Windows Phone deviceon 26 and 27 October in London, eight months after Elop pinned the embattled manufacturer's future on Microsoft's smartphone system. The device will use a micro-Sim card which the company hopes will tempt existing iPhone users to swap platforms.However, Nokia's share price has halved since February on fears that the company will lose an irrecoverable slice of market share before the first Windows Phone handsets are in customers' hands."Europe is core to Nokia's future. In addition to our headquarters, we have a strong R&amp;D [research and development] presence in Europe," Elop said. "We have four major R&amp;D sites in Finland and two major R&amp;D sites in Germany, as well as Nokia Research Centres and other supporting R&amp;D sites in Europe."Nokia also retains a strong local presence in our many sales offices throughout this region, as well as our operations in Salo and Komarom."Separately, major Nokia supplier Digia said it was to cut 170 jobs in its Finnish operations, with the possibility of 80 further redundancies. Nokia also said it would review the long-term role of its manufacturing plants in Salo, Finland, in Komarom, Hungary, and Reynosa, Mexico.The company made a net loss of €368m ($521m; £323m) in the three months to the end of June, compared with a profit of €227m in the same quarter in 2010. Net sales fell by 7% to €9.3bn.
Amazon's launch of itsnew e-reader, the Kindle Fire,has been hailed as "game-changing" for the fast-growing e-book market.At a New York press conference on Wednesday, the Amazon CEO, Jeff Bezos, revealed that the much anticipated device would be under half the price of its market-leading rival, Apple's iPad, at $199.Bezos also unveiled a touchscreen Kindle Touch device at $99, and a lighter version of the standard Kindle, with Wi-Fi access, with a price reduced to $79.This new generation Kindle will be on sale in the UK from 12 October costing £89 (the higher price for the UK version reflects that fact that it is ad-free while the US version is supported by adverts). UK launch dates for Kindle Fire and Kindle Touch have yet to be confirmed.Publishers reacted with excitement over the arrival of the devices ahead of Christmas, which last year saw a huge boost to ebook sales as e-readers proved a hit as gifts.Random House UK's digital editor, Dan Franklin, said the low prices would "open up a whole new marketplace of impulse buyers", while Michael Bhaskar of Profile Books said Amazon had "opened the tablet race wide open in a stroke" by its gift market pricing. Bhaskar predicted "hundreds of thousands, at least" of the Kindle Fire devices would be sold in the UK before Christmas, if it launches here.Meanwhile Bloomsbury's digital media director, Stephanie Duncan, foresaw the Kindle Fire prompting a big leap in e-books for illustrated titles such as cookery books and children's picture books."Anything that makes the experience of reading digitally better is welcomed by publishers," she said.Ebook reading has surged throughout 2011, with Random House UK, which is the country's second biggest trade publisher, now reporting that ebooks make up 10% of its sales. But the launch of Amazon's latest devices will intensify concerns within the book trade over the increasing dominance of the online retailer in the marketplace.HarperCollins's CEO, Victoria Barnsley, last month referred to Amazon as "frenemies",telling BBC Radio 4that she had "mixed views" about the company."They have done fantastic things for the book industry ... but there's no doubt they are very, very powerful now and in fact they are getting close to being in a monopolistic situation," she said.The Office of Fair Trading is currently considering whether to refer Amazon's acquisition of The Book Depository this summer to the Competition Commission, following protests about the takeover from within the industry
Ubisoft is celebrating its 25th anniversary this year, and to discuss the leading publisher's key titles, its innovative approach to development and its future, we've secured a video interview with Jade Raymond, head of the company's Toronto studio (rumoured to be working on the next Splinter Cell title as well as – maybe – survival horror newcomer, I Am Alive).But we need your questions! If there's anything you want to know about Ubisoft, current projects, future projects, or the state of the games industry in general, write them in the comments section below. We'll gather up the best and take them over to Jade and film her answers. Raymond is, of course, an industry veteran, having started out as a coder at Sony Online Entertainment before joining EA to produce Sims Online, and then moving on to Ubisoft's Montreal studio to work on Assassin's Creed and its sequel. She's also one of the most high-profile women in a creative industry still hugely dominated by men.So yes, think of some questions, add them below and we'll put them to Jade in Toronto in a week's time...(Oh and for those still waiting for our Battlefield 3 answers, EA Dice has promised to get on the phone soon – they're just a bit busy at the moment!)
If you're making apps, what's your strategy when it comes to localising them? Translation isn't high on the agenda for many developers when they first start, but one of the key things about the new breed of app stores is the ability to publish your app globally at the press of a button.Translating an app into several different languages can be a key booster of downloads and sales, but the costs involved in hiring someone to do that can be off-putting, especially for smaller developers. Alternatives include finding an employee or a friend who'll do it, or pumping the in-app text and marketing copy into Google Translate and hoping for the best.Tethras is an interesting startup looking to provide another option. Headquartered in Ireland with an office in Silicon Valley, it was co-founded by Brendan Clavin, who previously worked at Google for four and a half years managing the infrastructure, tools and technology for translating its products into more than 100 languages."A year or so prior to leaving Google, I saw that the profile of the developer who's producing software had changed dramatically," he says. "With iPhone and its App Store, it's no longer the bigger companies in the world producing this software. It's the hobbyist at weekends, and the two-man or five-man company. And nobody is servicing these guys when it comes to translation."Clavin says that while there are companies focused on software localisation, they tend to target the biggest firms who have multi-million dollar accounts, rather than developers who might spend $500 for the initial translation of an app, and then another $50 whenever they have an update."We wanted to go after this long tail, and build a platform and technology that can service thousands of customers," he says. "We're very focused on iOS, but we also do Android and Windows Phone, and are thinking about BlackBerry and HTML5."The rationale for translation is understandable, especially when it comes to keywords: think Chinese smartphone owners searching for a particular subject on an app store by typing Chinese words. If the app description text is in English, it won't show up in the search results. Apple never talks about how it decides which apps get featured on its store, but localisation can only be a benefit in attracting its editorial team's attention."When Apple feature apps, they want them to be localised, especially if they want to do a worldwide feature or advertising campaign," says Clavin, citing the example of iPhone app Heart Pro as something that was localised for six languages, and subsequently appeared in Apple's TV adverts.Does translation pay off for developers? Clavin talks about another app, Hit Tennis 2, which was translated into Italian, and in two days sales of the game in the Italian App Store paid for the costs of the localisation."After that it's all gravy," he says, while warning that other factors define the success of an app. "A bad app localised is still a bad app. You can't really put lipstick on a chicken with localisation. It's not a guarantee of success."
A selection of 11 apps for you today:Fifa 12 by EA SportsEA's annual update to its football franchise has gone live on Apple's App Store, now including the game's Manager mode, and new control schemes to help players unlock their inner Messi. The link above is to the iPhone version, but there is also aseparate iPad editionthat includes the option to use two iPhones to control the action on the bigger iPad screen.iPhone / iPadCars 2 AppmatesWe have alreadywritten aboutDisney's plans for an Appmates range of physical toys that work with iPad apps, but the first app is now live, based on Cars 2. Once the toys go on sale in October, fans will be able to drive around the virtual Radiator Springs by moving the cars on the iPad's touchscreen.iPadMichael Jackson Doctor TrialWell, this was probably inevitable: as the trial of Michael Jackson's doctor Conrad Murray gets under way in the US, there is already an iOS app for that. It includes news stories, live video streaming from the court and daily video highlights. The app is the work of US broadcaster Fox, and is already riding high in the US App Store chart.iPhone / iPadFlickrYahoo's photo-sharing service Flickr has released an Android app that takes aim at the iOS-only Instagram by helping people to take photos, apply filters and then share them on... a range of services? Yes, Flickr is helping people share pics on Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr, presumably via its own site.Android9mm HDGameloft has released its acclaimed gangster game 9mm for Android in an HD edition. Expect plenty of third-person shooting, as well as online deathmatching.AndroidBenettonFans of colourful knitwear rejoice: fashion brand Benetton has released its official iPhone app. It lets people browse and share images from the company's catalogues and campaigns, while also including behind-the-scenes videos from photoshoots. A store-finder and the streaming Benetton radio station are also included.iPhoneKatamari AmoreNamco Bandai's excellent roll 'em up franchise has a second game for iOS, promising new levels that haven't been available on other gaming platforms before. The business model is interesting: the game is free to download but only allows the first Time Attack stage to be played: an in-app payment of £2.49 unlocks the rest of the game.iPhone / iPadBurn The RopePopular pyromaniac puzzler Burn the Rope has made the leap to Windows Phone, tying in to Microsoft's Xbox Live community. It involves rotating levels to ensure the fire burns as much rope (upwards) as possible.Windows PhoneGuns'n'Glory WW2Games publisher HandyGames has released a sequel to its freemium game Guns'n'Glory for Android, with the second world war now the focus. The action/strategy game lets players take on the role of US or German forces, and it's optimised for Sony Ericsson's Xperia Play handset.AndroidBelkin LiveActionBest known for its accessories, Belkin is getting into the photo and video-sharing app game with its new LiveAction application. "Capture high-quality snapshots and home movies, then send to your social network without skipping a beat," promises its App Store description. The idea is that the app can be used with Belkin's LiveAction range of camera grip and concert mic accessories.iPhoneMMA Global ForumAn industry-focused app here: MMA Global Forum is the official app for the Mobile Marketing Association Forum event in October, while also offering more general mobile marketing news and discussions.iPhone
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAmazon's amazing Fire jujitsu &gt;&gt; Chris Espinosa"Lost in the 'Is it an iPad Killer?' hype is the audacious introduction of the Silk browser. Under the guise of increasing speed (on WiFi; there is no 3G Fire where download speed would be a larger issue), Amazon is performing astonishing jujitsu on Google. "The 'split browser' notion is that Amazon will use its EC2 back end to pre-cache user web browsing, using its fat back-end pipes to grab all the web content at once so the lightweight Fire-based browser has to only download one simple stream from Amazon's servers. But what this means is that Amazon will capture and control every Web transaction performed by Fire users. Every page they see, every link they follow, every click they make, every ad they see is going to be intermediated by one of the largest server farms on the planet."PlayBook: retailers cut prices, RIM cuts Android hopes &gt;&gt; InformationWeek"RIM held a developer event in Europe this week. RIM engineers explained to developers in attendance just what the PlayBook will--and won't--be able to do when it comes to Android apps. The news, as reported by Thinq, is not very encouraging. "First, a quick refresher...RIM is releasing an emulator program later this year that acts as a runtime for Android apps. Instant access to the Android Market, right? So we thought--incorrectly. "Here's a list of what won't work: Android Live Wallpapers; SIP and SIP VoIP; applications that contain widgets; any apps built using the Android Native Development Kit; apps that contain more than one activity tied to the launcher. Also not working? Google Maps, any sort of in-app billing, the Android text-to-speech engine, and the Android cloud-to-device messaging service. "It is impossible to say how many Android applications this will render useless on the PlayBook, but you can bet it will be a significant number."Why I don't think Amazon Fire is sold at a gross margin loss &gt;&gt; Patrick MoorheadWorking backwards from the estimated cost of the RIM PlayBook (on which the Fire is based) he reckons the Fire's raw cost is $198.Amazon estimated to lose $50 per Kindle Fire sold &gt;&gt; AppleInsider"A note by Gene Munster of Piper Jaffray, says Amazon's Kindle Fire is 'not a true competitor, but more competitive than expected,' while noting the Internet retailer 'is likely losing about $50' on each unit it sells. "Munster wrote that the "Kindle Fire's 7 inch screen compared to the 10 inch iPad is a bigger difference than the numbers make it seem," noting, as Apple's Steve Jobs did last year, that 'a 7 inch screen is only 45% as large as the iPad's 10 the screen.' ... "Munster added that despite less storage, no cameras and lacking a 3G mobile data option, the Kindle Fire 'is more competitive that we anticipated due to its new movie, music, and web browsing capabilities.'"Nokia "drops O2? as stockist for Windows Phone devices &gt;&gt; Mobile News Online"Sources close to O2 and Nokia said the manufacturer laid down strict criteria to stock the device, including volume targets, store displays and marketing campaigns, which could not be agreed with O2." Another interpretation: Nokia wanted a big show and big commitment, and O2 wouldn't give it. What's the Finnish for "cutting off your nose to spite your face"?Our licensing deal with Samsung: how IP drives innovation and collaboration &gt;&gt; Microsoft TechNet Blogs"The Samsung license agreement marks the seventh agreement Microsoft has signed in the past three months with hardware manufacturers that use Android as an operating system for their smartphones and tablets. The previous six were with Acer, General Dynamics Itronix, Onkyo, Velocity Micro, ViewSonic and Wistron. "Together with the license agreement signed last year with HTC, today's agreement with Samsung means that the top two Android handset manufacturers in the United States have now acquired licenses to Microsoft's patent portfolio. These two companies together accounted for more than half of all Android phones sold in the US over the past year. That leaves Motorola Mobility, with which Microsoft is currently in litigation, as the only major Android smartphone manufacturer in the U.S. without a license." Android is the best money-making idea Microsoft never had.About the iPhone: a letter from the CEO &gt;&gt; T-Mobile US BlogTranslation, roughly: "yes, we've heard from a lot of you that you'd like to get the iPhone through us. In fact 1m of our users are using unlocked iPhones on T-Mobile US. So.... hey, look at these cute Android phones!"Apple may discontinue the iPod shuffle and classic &gt;&gt; The Unofficial Apple Weblog"...Specifically, if you want to buy an iPod shuffle or iPod classic from Apple, you should do it sooner rather than later. We've heard those two iPods are getting the axe this year." Struggling to see the point chopping the iPod Shuffle.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Wednesday was not a good day for RIM and its PlayBook.For some time, developers have been awaiting with a degree of modest interest to learn more about the Android support on the device. When announced, it appeared that RIM would get around the problem thatno one was fussed about writing native apps for the QNX operating system the PlayBook runs onby allowing Android apps to run on the device.Wouldn't that be the best of both worlds? The device might start to get some traction by having Android support. As we've known since Microsoft first trounced Apple in the personal computer market back in the DOS days, it's the ecosystem, stupid. Without developers having any interest in building native apps for QNX, much as there'd been little interest in writing apps for native BlackBerry OS, it's unlikely anyone would seek out and buy a PlayBook device – a point which has been backed up withits poor sales and massive backlog.Uh oh … not a good playGiven that a "play book" is supposed to contain details of your best "plays", let's have a look at the detail ofwhat was announced at Droidcon over in Romania. The announcement is sketchy on detail – it's essentially a list of things that you'renotgoing to get.First, we're missing the ability to run Live Wallpaper. OK, not a big deal. This is afeature on Androidthat allows you to have a dynamic background display on the home screen. It either just looks flashy, or it can key into a data source to get live information, eg weather or time. Seeing as on PlayBook you are supposed to be enjoying their user experience, losing this sort of app from the whole set of Android apps available doesn't seem like a huge deal.Next thing we're missing are VoIP features.  On Android this is done by exposing a SIP ("session initiation protocol") API to developers. This API will not work on the PlayBook.TheNative Development Kit("NDK") also won't be supported. This is an extension to the regular Android SDK that allows you to "go down to the metal" of the device by writing native code. (The regular Android SDK is Java-based.) This is a fairly specialised area of Android development, and it's rare for anyone to use it at present. It's essentially helpful in optimisation, for example when Java just won't cut what you need to do. That sort of native code implementation just won't work on the PlayBook.Also not supported are apps that contain only "App Widgets". App Widgets are typically used on the home screen of Android devices to display snippets of application data front-and-centre. To me, the published information from Droidcon is unclear on this. They say "only App Widgets", but actually I'm not convinced PlayBook would support Android App Widgets in any form, so if you had an app that had an App Widget as part of its core function, I'm not sure you would get to see it.Also not supported are Google bits and pieces, such as Google Maps, in-app billing (absolutelyhugefor freemium model developers, and pretty much the way things are going in the cottage industry development market thatwe discussed before), Android's text-to-speech engine, or the cloud-to-device messaging system – a point we'll come to in a moment.The final thing that won't be supported is "apps containing more than one activity tied to the Launcher", which is pretty cryptic.The Launcher is the "supervisor" of Android that chooses what you do when you want to launch tasks. Android is a fairly interesting OS in that when you want you application to do things you create and launch activities. For example, if you write your own application and want to display a web browser, you define an "intent" to open the web browser and then launch/activate it. When you build your application you define "intent filters" that are effectively interface points for other applications, once of which is this Launcher process that acts as a supervisor.What the statement "apps containing more than one activity tied to the Launcher" is implying is that you won't be able to create applications that use this intent filter functionality by exposing out any filters other than a basic "start me". This makes sense for PlayBook – you'd expose an icon out on the QNX side of things and to start the app you fire up your Android subsystem and reach through and fire off the intent. However, it's sinister for Android developers who might want to get on the PlayBook, as creating intent filters is a pretty good way of adding value by making your application more interconnected.It's a bright sunny day with no clouds – in a bad wayThe cloud-to-device messaging actually just kills this proposition stone dead. At the Windows 8 BUILD conference earlier this month, Microsoft was full-on about having Windows 8 devices more-or-less permanently connected up to the cloud to share settings and receive messages. iOS is going in that direction, while Android has been doing sterling work on it too. All of the current generation of devices (regardless of whether they're phones, iPads, Kindles, OS X desktops or Windows 8 desktops) which are defining how we see the world now will be utterly dependent on the cloud. More to the point, this is what users are going to want.By snipping off Android apps on PlayBook from Google's cloud infrastructure by removing cloud-to-device, RIM is castrating the upcoming generation of Android applications. OK, so you may be able to find some interesting applications now, but going forward when PlayBook is getting no love at all and this doesn't get fixed (because none of it will – where's the motivation?) the pool of apps that are willing to play in this environment is going to get smaller and smaller.Into the Kindle FireIt must be pretty galling to wake up one day and find that not only have you spent millions on a tablet that the market has no interest in, but that one of your rivals has gone to thesame company that made your tabletand done an arguably better job. Quanta built the PlayBook for RIM, and Amazon asked the same company to build the Kindle Fire, which was launched on Wednesday.Kindle is based on Android, but is in a similar boat to RIM in that it's not a Google-licensed Android implementation and hence doesn't have the Google Market, Google Maps, etc. Kindle Fire apps appear at this point not to have access to cloud-to-device messaging, Google Maps, in-app purchasing through Google Market.I'm not going to go into too much detail here on the Fire – they'll be plenty more content coming down over the next days and weeks – but both the PlayBook and Fire represent a problem of fragmentation to the Android developer. Specifically, if you build an app for Android, what's the baseline of functionality that you're trying to target? Fire is slightly different in that Amazon has been noisily preparing an Android app store for a while now. Likewise the cloud service it can offer through AWS is world-class, so the story on Fire should be better.Don't say fragmented, say divergedHere's a real-world example of the problems this divergence causes.Ollie Cornes, an independent Android software developer, talked to me about issues he has with one client's application: it requires Google Maps and cloud-to-device messaging and thus will not function properly on PlayBook or, more importantly, Fire. He explained: "it is impossible for apps to be as functional on the Fire or Playbook as they would be on a full Android device, as key pieces of Android are missing from these devices … To Android developers, the Playbook and Fire are second-class citizens compared to Google-approved tablets, which include Google's bonus features."And really this is the most important thing for Android: unless the user base is comfortably thatanyapp they pick will work on this device (and take note this isabsolutelythe case on iOS and will be with Windows 8), the whole thing just won't hold water.Although I promised not to go into Fire too much here, I suspect it won't matter, as my instincts are that 99.9% of Fire users won't download apps and will be happy consuming the media served over the Amazon cloud, web browsing and using the built-in apps.So Android developers can probably ignore the Fire and keep targeting "full" Android devices. How about the PlayBook and RIM though? Since Android developers won't want to target them, what happens to them?What now for BlackBerry?Which leaves us with RIM. I don't feel I can talk about RIM without talking about BlackBerry OS. RIM has decided, much as Microsoft did with Windows Mobile when shifting to Windows Phone, to junk its BBOS operating system and move wholesale to QNX. It is said that the new BlackBerry units running the QNX-based OS will be able to run Android apps. Presumably this would be the same or similar implementation of the counterpart subsystem on PlayBook and suggests the limitations we've seen today in terms of paucity of support will flow through into that new world.And is anyone going to start writing native apps for QNX to run on the PlayBook? Hardly.So here's a question: what do you call a platform for which nobody bothers to write native apps? Here's a suggestion: dead.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
Thursday again. Let's discuss the games we're playing.
Jeff Bezos has been reading The Remains of the Day. A novel of quiet subtlety. Or so the Amazon boss told the audience at a press conference in Manhattan on Wednesday. From his actions, it seems more likely that he has been at the Sun Tzu.Bezos made a bid to be the new Steve Jobs, declaring war on Apple with the launch of a cut-price rival to the iPad, with the two technology titans now squaring up over who will own the device that delivers the future of music, movies and TV online.The $199 (£128) colour touchscreen tablet called the Kindle Fire was unveiled at a press conference in New York with all the secrecy and prerelease teasing Apple usually sprinkles on its launches.The new Kindle is far less advanced than the iPad. It doesn't offer a mobile connection, working only with Wi-Fi; it doesn't have a camera or microphone; and its screen, at 7 inches, is smaller than the iPad, at 9.7 inches.However, at half the price, analysts said it presents the first serious challenge to the iPad's dominance of the tablet market, as Bezos tries to build on the success of his company's Kindle book reader with a colour-screen, multimedia offering for US consumers. In Britain, buyers will have to wait until next year at the earliest.Janney Capital Markets analyst Shawn Milne said he expects between 2 million and 3 million Kindle Fire tablets will be shipped in the fourth quarter. Others are aiming higher. "At $199, the Fire is sure to be a highly disruptive product in the tablet market, particularly in the lead-up to Christmas," said David McQueen of Informa Telecoms &amp; Media.Bezos revealed the device after introducing a new range of simpler Kindles, one of which will be available in the UK for £89 from 12 October. But it was the Kindle Fire that seized the limelight: a device intended to build on the popularity of the company's e-readers and reach a broader audience that wants to browse the web, listen to music and watch movies and video. The device will also feature a news stand for users, stocking Kindle Fire-friendly versions of titles from publishers including versions of Cosmopolitan, Vanity Fair, Wired and Glamour.The event had echoes of one of Jobs's famous Apple presentations. Bezos, dressed causally in open-neck shirt and jeans, went for a slow reveal. First there was a history of the Kindle and a chance for Bezos to display some of the unkinder comments people had made about the best selling e-book reader when it was launched. Then came the new generation of Kindles, and finally Kindle Fire. And then the price. "We're building premium products at non-premium prices," said Bezos. "We are determined to do that."Bezos also announced a new web browser, called Amazon Silk, which he said was tailored for mobile devices, as the company that was once just an electronic shop also encroached on territory once dominated by Microsoft. "It's truly a technical achievement," he said.He then took a swipe at Apple, saying there would be no need to synchronise the Kindle Fire to a computer, as people do with their iPads. "That model, that you are responsible for backing up your own content, is a broken model," he said.Michael Gartenberg, analyst at Gartner, said the announcement pitched Apple and Amazon head to head in the battle for "cloud" media services. Both Apple and Amazon have been developing services that allow customers to store their music, movies and TV shows remotely – "in the cloud" – and then access them from any device connected to the web. Next week, Apple is expected to respond, with more details of its inevitably-named iCloud service next week. "For me, that was the most significant part of the announcement," said Gartenberg. He said the Kindle Fire looked like a good product and was priced to sell, but the real battle was "in the cloud".Amazon plans to begin taking orders for the Fire on its US website immediately, and will start shipping on 15 November. Bezos said the company was "making many millions of these" – but Amazon has no immediate plans to launch the Fire in the UK.Reaction at the event was mixed. Avram Piltch, editorial director at Laptop Magazine, said the device looked "more like an iPod killer than an iPad killer". He said the Kindle Fire looked set to be a big seller for people who want to use it to consume media, but it didn't have enough firepower to take on the iPad or other tablet manufacturers who were making devices for people at work rather than play.The new Kindle has its work cut out for it. Apple sold more than 29m iPads in the product's first 15 months on the market. Most of its competitors have bombed.  Hewlett Packard scrapped its tablet device in an embarrassing U-turn that contributed to the ousting of its chief executive. Blackberry maker Research in Motion shipped just 200,000 of its own rival to the iPad, the PlayBook, in three months.But, said Gartenberg, Amazon has one big advantage over the other would-be iPad killers: content. "Amazon has millions of customers already buying their stuff. It has their credit card details, it knows their names. That's a big advantage," he said.Next Tuesday, Apple will have its chance to respond – except that its big launch for Christmas is the latest version of the somewhat smaller iPhone. The battle has just begun.
One of the world's largest motor manufacturers is working with scientists based in Switzerland to design a car that can read its driver's mind and predict his or her next move.The collaboration, betweenNissanand theÉcole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne(EPFL), is intended to balance the necessities of road safety with demands for personal transport.Scientists at the EPFL have already developedbrain-machine interface(BMI) systems that allow wheelchair users to manoeuvre their chairs by thought transference. Their next step will be finding a way to incorporate that technology into the way motorists interact with their cars.If the endeavour proves successful, the vehicles of the future may be able to prepare themselves for a left or right turn – choosing the correct speed and positioning – by gauging that their drivers are thinking about making such a turn.However, although BMI technology is well established, the levels of human concentration needed to make it work are extremely high, so the research team is working on systems that will use statistical analysis to predict a driver's next move and to "evaluate a driver's cognitive state relevant to the driving environment".By measuring brain activity, monitoring patterns of eye movement and scanning the environment around the car, the team thinks the car will be able to predict what a driver is planning to do and help him or her complete the manoeuvre safely.Lucian Gheorghe, who joined Nissan's mobility research centre after graduating in computer science and artificial intelligence from Kobe University, Japan, said he believed the joint project could benefit both scientists and motorists."Brain wave analysis has helped me understand driver burden in order to reduce driver stress," he said. "During our collaboration with EPFL, I believe we will not only be able to contribute to the scientific community but we will also find engineering solutions that will bring us close to providing easy access to personal mobility for everyone."ProfessorJosé del R Millán, who is leading the project, said the idea behind the research was a simple one: "to blend driver and vehicle intelligence together in such a way that eliminates conflicts between them, leading to a safer motoring environment".
When Apple introduced its second-generation iPad earlier this year, then-CEO Steve Jobs used the word "flummoxed" to describe his company's erstwhile competitors in the tablet market. He was right; the competition has been scattered, and mostly inept.Until now? Perhaps so, withWednesday's launch of the Kindle Fire, Amazon's entry into the market. But this device, at just under $200, is to the iPad (about $500 in its least expensive version) as a cheap sedan is to a Lexus SUV: functional and useful, but nowhere near as elegant or powerful.Indeed, the Fire, Amazon's first effort in this genre, is plainly not intended to compete head-to-head with the iPad. It's smaller, much less capable in terms of features and hardware – and 60% cheaper. [For the sake of disclosure: I own some Amazon shares.]The Fire is just one of several devices Amazon announced at a New York event. But it's by far the most important, for what it says about the tablet marketplace. The market, at least for the time being, is bifurcating between the luxury models (iPad and, in distant runner-up position, high-end Android tablets), which can do many things well, and utilitarian models (such as Fire, running a modified version of Google's Android, and a number of other, pure-Android devices), which are intended mainly as media-consuming devices.I haven't gotten my hands on the Fire, but I have no immediate plans to buy one. Not quite a year ago, I purchased a Samsung Galaxy Tab with a 7-inch screen. It has become my main mobile media device, for getting news, reading books (including Kindle files), and watching movies in particular, plus as an occasional email and social-media connector. It has a camera and microphone I hardly ever use. (The Android operating system needs updating, yet Samsung and its telecom partner for the one I bought, T-Mobile, have declined to provide the update – a classic demonstration of vendor contempt for customers.) The Tab, still relatively expensive, was grossly overpriced at the time I bought it – curse of the early adopter – but it's still working well enough for now.For my purposes, the 7-inch size is ideal. That's why I believe Amazon is doing the right thing with its first tablet by keeping it small, especially given that Amazon's major goal is to have customers use it as a media consumption device, which also runs Android games and other apps. I will also take bets that Apple, despite Jobs's pronouncement that he would never sell a tablet of that size, will reconsider and do so at some point; the value proposition is too obvious.The Fire's relatively low price reflects Amazon's business model, andthe company's insistence that the devices should be seen as one elementin a larger collection of services. It has a growing collection of media it can sell or rent to its customers. To some degree, Apple's media sales and rentals are aimed at selling expensive hardware, but Amazon's experience with the Kindle has been more about selling cheap hardware to sell more books. (The word "sell" is questionable in digital media, which so often comes, as on the Kindle, with severe restrictions on what a customer can do with it after "buying" the media file.)The big loser in the Amazon announcement could be Barnes &amp; Noble, which should have been the major competitor to Apple. The Nook Color, a 7-inch tablet launched last year by the bookstore chain, costs a competitive $250 and has decent hardware for the price. Yet Barnes &amp; Noble made strategic error. Even though the Nook Color – created by a talented Silicon Valley team the company assembled – runs on Android, the operating system was deliberately crippled, preventing it from running a customer's choice of Android apps.I would guess – Barnes &amp; Noble has declined to discuss its reasoning – that the Android Kindle app was uppermost in the minds of the corporate strategists who made this decision. Users quickly found ways tohack the Nook Color to turn it into a for-real Android tablet, but Barnes &amp; Noble should never have forced them into this position.Amazon has also heavily modified Android, and like Barnes &amp; Noble, it's telling customers to use its own app store. This is regrettable, but Amazon may get away with it, having created a fairly robust store and having tons of available media – not to mention gazillions of customers, all of whom have stored credit-card information with Amazon, for the many other products it sells.Other 7-inch tablets are on the market and on the way, and none looks very competitive with the Fire, at the moment. It's probably too late for Barnes &amp; Noble to try, but if I had the ear of the company's executives, I would suggest opening up the upcoming second-generation Nook Color, lowering the price and positioning it as a Fire alternative that shows more respect for customer choice.The Amazon moves are also a problem for Google. By creating what software developers call a "fork" – a version of the open-source Android that is plainly moving down a different road – Amazon is challenging Google's primacy with the OS it originally developed. Google cannot be happy about this, but all it can do – until someone hacks the Fire to free it from Amazon's restrictions – is keep its own apps and app marketplace off the devices, which is counterproductive in its own way.If the Fire pre-empts the non-iPad competition, as it may, might Google feel obliged to create its own branded tablet? I would not bet against it.
Block 19.45am / 2.45pm BST:I'm in a distant corner of western Manhattan waiting for Amazon to unveil something.Taking a leaf (or pip perhaps) from the Apple playbook, the company has sent an invite saying  that we all expect to be the unveiling of a new tablet device called Kindle Fire.There are hundreds of journalists here. Not since Moses descended from Mount Sinai has a tablet been so hotly anticipated. Well, maybe not. Apple's iPad is way more significant than the ten commandments.Apple now has 70% of the tablet market. So Amazon has a lot to prove. While I wait in line to get in,here's the preview I wrote yesterday.Block 29.59am ET / 2.59pm BST:The press are filing in. Sadly I think there are too many of us for everyone to get a freebie. Here's some pre-match comment from professorAjay Bhallafrom Cass Business School. He doesn't think it will rival the iPad. "At this stage, it is incorrect to assume that Amazon tablet will be a true rival to Apple iPad." He says Apple's ecosystem is hard to imitate for rivals. Transferring their stuff between Apple devices is seamless.Apple has moved fast to replicate the same user experience across Mac and iOS devices. Can Amazon do what Apple has done? Has it got the focus Apple has?Block 310.04am / 3.04pm BST:We are sitting in Stage 37 – a warehouse on the west end of 37th Street in Manhattan. It's a capacity crowd. And we are off. "New York City Two years Ago" reads the first slide, introducing an ad about the Kindle.Block 410.06am ET / 3.06pm BST:Bloomberg is reporting that theKindle Fire will cost $199. I guess we are just about to find out.Block 510.12am ET / 3.12pm BST:According to Bloomberg,the Kindle Fire will have a seven-inch display – half the size of the iPad. Priced at $199, it's half the price of the cheapest iPad, which retails at $499, and will run on Google's Android operating system.Bloomberg reported that Amazon shares rose $8.59, or 3.8 percent, to $232.80 at 9:47am on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Apple rose $3.46 to $402.72Block 610.15am ET / 3.15pm BST:Amazon founderJeff Bezosis showing slides of all the negative comments that Kindle received. The sales charts show otherwise, he says. "Four years ago we stated with 90,000 books today it's a million," he says. "You can choose any of these books and have them in 60 seconds wirelessly."This all looks like a pitch for how the new device will get better over time, to defuse criticism that it's an underpowered iPad.Block 710.19am ET / 3.19pm BST:Bezos unveils theKindle Touch. It's a very stripped-down looking e-reader. Now I see why he was managing expectations. It fits in the palm of his skinny hand – just. It looks like a Kindle, and has a touch screen. It's black and white.I'm wondering if Bezos is about to do a Steve Jobs and pull out something a bit fancier in a minute.Block 810.21am ET / 3.21pm BST:Bezos is reading Remains of The Day to us. I feel a bit sleepy.Block 9Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos holds up the new Kindle Touch. Photograph: Shannon Stapleton/Reuters10.27am ET / 3.27pm BST:Kindle Touch will be priced at $99.Electronic ink, touch screen, free storage in Amazon cloud. Not bad. And now the big reveal.Kindle Touch 3G. That's $149.Well that wasn't a big reveal – was it?  Is there more?Yes there's more!A $79 Kindle. No touch screen, but weighing 6oz. Those things are going to sell.Block 1010.30am ET / 3.30pm BST:Hmmmm. I think we are feeling a bit mis-sold. Yes, Amazon is going to sell boat loads of the new Kindles but it's not an iPad killer is it?But wait, there's more. Bozos is outlining all Amazon's online media assets. The cloud player where you can access all your music and films, Amazon Prime that offers cheap shipping and access to streaming video. This all feels like a build-up to something.Block 1110.36am ET / 3.36pm BST:So, so far, we have a non-touch $79 Kindle, a touch-screen $99 Kindle, and a 3G Kindle Touch at $149. The pre-briefing suggests the Fire, which Bezos has not yet revealed, will be $199.Our technology reporter Josh Halliday has this instant analysis:At $199 (or £127), Amazon has undercut  all of the high-end players in the growing tablet market, including Apple, Research in Motion, Samsung and  HP.With the pricing of its new Kindle family, Amazon has bullishly established that it will continue to dominate the e-reader market for some time to come. You can hear the Waterstones reverse ferret from here.At $79, the cheapest Kindle is almost  a commodity item. At $99, the touchscreen Kindle – dubbed Kindle Touch, appropriately – is ripe for Christmas stockings. Amazon's Kindle Fire, at least from the pre-brief, sounds underwhelming, with no camera or 3G. But let's see what Bezos has up his sleeve.Block 1210.39am ET / 3.39pm BST:So, after all that teasing, here it is: Bezos is announcing theKindle Fire. It has a 7in colour screen, and will weigh 14.6oz. It has the capacity for 100,000 movies, 17m songs, and magazines. It looks very cute.Block 1310.42am ET / 3.42pm:Bezos is having a little dig at Apple. There's no need for all that annoying synching. The Kindle Fire will do it all via whispersync, a wireless service.There were some giggles and ooohs from the crowd. The tease worked. Bezos has clearly been studying the Steve Jobs style. He even has mum jeans on. Although thankfully he has chosen not to don the black turtleneck.Block 1410.44am ET / 3.44pm BST:Here's more from Josh Halliday.Unless Bezos goes on to say otherwise, the Kindle Fire looks like it will be US only for the time being. It appears intrinsically tied with Amazon cloud player, which hasn't yet launched outside the US for legal reasons. The launch of the first Kindle was US-only  too, so this wouldn't be wholly extraordinary.Block 15The Amazon Kindle Fire tablet (Amazon.com, via Bloomberg)10.49am ET / 3.49pm BST:So far we've watched X-Men, played more Adele and now Jeff's chopping fruit in the Fruit Ninja game."I still have more for you," says Bezos. He's showing Amazon's web page. "It's difficult, challenging for mobile devices to show modern webpages rapidly."The solution:Amazon Silk. It's a new browser designed for the era of mobile devices. Golly. This really is turning into an Amazon v Apple event.So far we've had three new cheap Kindles, a new Kindle Fire iPad rival and now a web browser!Block 1610.53am ET/ 3.53pm BST:Bezos seems to be wrapping up. How much is it going to cost? $199, as expected. "It's unbelievable value," he says.Block 1711.03am ET/ 4.03pm BST:The Kindle Fire ships November 15. "But I still suggest you pre-order today," says Bezos. He thanks everyone for coming. And it's over.Golly. That Bezos can sell! The mood is far more upbeat now.Block 1811.05am ET / 4.05pm ET:Here's Josh Halliday on the stock market view.Wall Street has reacted – and Barnes  &amp; Noble is predictably taking quite a hit. Its stock fell as much as 9% as Bezos was unveiling the new range of cut-price Kindles, which bear an uncanny resemblance to the Nook, rival e-reader from B&amp;N. There's since s have since rallied to a fall of 7%, at $12.25 apiece. Amazon is up a modest 3.5%.Block 1911.25am ET / 4.25pm BST:There's some debate in the comments about the price points. NellieIrrelevant says:Those prices are misleading though - they are for ad-supported versions. The ones free of spam cost more. Heck with that - I don't care how classy Amazon's ads are...A UK-based reader, iainl adds:And now there's the rub. The Kindle Touch isn't $99 after all; that's just the price for the "with offers" (read: spams advertising) version that they won't release in the UK and I wouldn't want anyway. The one without adverts is $139, the same price as the current-gen Kindle, so we'll still be charged £111 over here.Block 2011.39am ET / 4.49pm BST :To answer questions in the comments about UK availability – Amazon made no specific mention of any territory outside the UK at the New York launch. But the new lighter Kindle will definitely be available in the UK – and as BobHughes points out in the comments,here's a link to pre-order the 6oz version.The price is striking – in the UK it ships at £89. But here in the US, it's $79 – equivalent to around £50 at today's exchange rate. A startling example of rip-off Britain?Josh Halliday has just been speaking to an Amazon spokesman, who confirms thatneither the Kindle Touch nor the Kindle Fire will be available in the UK. They are US-only, for now.As I said earlier, the reason why the Fire can't be released outside the US is because it's hooked up to Amazon Cloud, which isn't available outside the US for legal reasons.As for the Touch, that's probably to do with the Whispersync wifi synching service.Block 2111.55am ET/ 4.55pm BST:So, what have we learned? First of all, Jeff Bezos is a massive tease. After a lot of foreplay with new Kindles, the Amazon boss revealed a full-on rival to the iPad, the Kindle Fire. It's going to cost $199 and ship in the US on November 15 and will no doubt sell out on the first day giving Amazon another pre-Christmas PR jolt.We also got a new range of Kindles with touch screens and a super-cheap one with a regular screen priced at $79 in the US for an ad-supported version. In the UK, this retails at £89, but this is for an ad-free version that will cost $109 in the US.  This basic new Kindle will most likely be the only product featured at today's launch to go on sale in the UK, at least in the near future.But perhaps the biggest news of all is that Amazon has declared war on Apple. It was already the biggest competitor to Apple's iTunes. Now it has a rival to Apple's best-selling iPad and it's even going into the browser business, launching a new web browser tailored to mobile devices. As Bezos said:We asked ourselves: 'Is there some way we can bring all of these things together [web service, Prime, Kindle, instant video and the app store] into a remarkable product offering customers would love?' Yes, the answer is Amazon Kindle Fire.There'll be more analysis later but that's it for the live blog for now. Thanks for all the comments.
The doors are closed, the consoles have been cleared away and the last flyers are being swept off the floor of Earls Court One. It's official: the Eurogamer Expo, the UK's biggest video games convention, is over for another year. Gamers who got tickets were in for a treat; the expo is a rare chance to talk to industry experts, meet the world's top games developers and, most importantly, get their hands on some top-tier unreleased titles.Some of this year's most anticipated titles – such as Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, Battlefield 3 and Legend Of Zelda: Skyward Sword – were available to play. For others – such as  Counterstrike: First Assault, Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim and the Sony PS Vita – the Expo was the first time the public had been allowed anywhere near them.But there's more to the exhibition than fun. Behind the scenes the Eurogamer team were busy making sure everything ran smoothly. Tom Bramwell, the operations director, explains how a good idea became a year of hard work.How many years has the expo been going and how did it all start?This is our fourth year. It kind of began with our community. We've always had a really vocal and engaged community that we want to do more stuff for. So in 2008 we thought we might as well put on an event; we knew a publisher and thought we'd get some games brought down for fans to play.We hired Old Truman Brewery in London's east end for two or three days and 4,000 people pitched up. It was great – a room full of fans on game-pods. We had Call Of Duty – amazingly – and a Far Cry 2 tournament, and small sessions with speakers and recruiters from the industry.It was just a fun little community event but it opened our eyes to the possibility of doing something bigger and more impactful, particularly as there hadn't been a big, video games event in the UK for some time. We talked to more publishers about showing their games and in 2009 decided to go bigger. We took over Old Billingsgate market in London and the Royal Armouries in Leeds.Over the last two years we've kicked it up another notch, taking over Earls Court One, which makes it by far the biggest gaming event in the UK. We've sold 30,000 tickets and we have every major game, I think, that's coming out this Christmas and a whole load more that are scheduled for next year, on the expo floor. We also have some of the biggest developers in the world here as well.So it's a lot to take in then?Yeah (laughs), it's surreal. This year I watched the senior vice president of Sony World Wide Studios introducing the Sony PS Vita handheld to a bunch of people standing next to a logo I helped design.It's bizarre for me and the rest of the guys at the site, but I think that's a good thing because it keeps us grounded. We know is has to be a show we enjoy putting on and that we enjoy coming to – the moment it gets more weird and corporate we'll have lost something.What did you have at the show this year?Everything! It depends which day you came to the developer sessions, but across the weekend we had Tim Willits, the creative director of id Software, who was doing a presentation on 20 years of the company. We had Nolan North, who plays Nathan Drake in the Uncharted games. OnLive was there too with their CEO Steve Perlman – they were giving away free games console worth around 70 quid. That was bonkers!On the show floor we had absolutely everything that you could think of. We had Battlefield 3, Uncharted 3, Counterstrike Global Offensive and Skyrim – both of which are UK firsts in terms of being allowed to play them. We had Legend Of Zelda: Skyward Sword, the 3DS, PS Vita which is another UK first hands-on. We had Modern Warfare 3, which we had to wait a little while to announce for reasons that are boring. Pretty much anything that you can imagine.The other thing is that everything that was on the show floor was playable because we do really believe that if you've paid to see something, you should be allowed to play it.How far in advance do you plan the expo?We'll start planning the next expo as soon as this one's over.  As soon as the show closes we get everyone together and have a big debrief. We talk about things we thought went well, but we mostly focus on the things we can improve on.So at the end of this four-day party you sit everyone down and say "we failed here, and we failed there"?Exactly! Last year people complained that the catering options weren't great so we invested a lot of money in improving that, for example. Seating was another issue we sorted out, although hilariously, a lot of our seats were tied up in a storage facility on the first day.Something that sets us apart from other events is that we have more going on than just video game pods. There's a tournament area, competitions, loads of freebies and T-shirts given away. There was also a career fair where people from studios would talk to attendees about potentially having a career in the gaming industry. We had the Bafta surgeries as well, where you can talk to people from different media professions. The Eurogamer journalists were even on hand to answer questions about how to become a games journalist. I wasn't doing that because I have no idea. I fluked into this job!Is it now the case that publishers approach Eurogamer about showing their wares at the expo, rather than the other way around?It's a mixture. We involve the developers and publishers in the debriefing process as well. We want to make sure its worthwhile for them to show their games with us. We make sure Skyrim isn't hidden away around a corner or something.But equally we've got to balance it out. This was the first year Counterstrike was shown as a hands-on in the UK, so they needed to get a good throw in the hat as well. It's not a case of money buys you space, we have to make sure everyone gets a fair shake.We were approached by some publishers. OnLive, for example were launching around the same time as the expo so we were able to give them a platform where they could speak to a lot of gamers at exactly the right time. For some publishers it's down to the hard graft of our organisers, contacting the publishers and selling them on the value of the expo, who then sell their developers on its value, too.Do you think that process is likely to get bigger as time goes on? The expo seems to grow year after year.Our first priority is to make sure the show is really good, primarily for the people attending because they're spending money to come. We need to make sure they have cool stuff.I don't know if it'll get any easier because with publishers it's something of a movable feast. They need to make sure everyone in their organisation gets it, buys into it and is interested in it, for everything to work. We also know we're in a very competitive environment with the expo; there are big shows in the USA which have good years and bad years – E3 has grown and shrunk and grown again – so we're not complacent at all.I'd like to believe it would get a lot easier to organise, because logistically it's a nightmare! But in the end it's always worth it. The first day we walk through the door and see everything so polished and put together, and everyone's having a great time – hopefully – that's when it all pays off.
Amazon has unveiled its long-awaited tablet computer – the Kindle Fire – in what is expected to be the biggest challenge yet to the dominance of Apple's iPad.The online retail giant showcased its 7in colour screen tablet computer in New York on Wednesday, with a retail price less than half that of Apple's best-selling device. However, the iPad has a larger screen at 9.7in.The Kindle Fire, which is based on Google's Android software, will retail for $199 (£127), compared to the cheapest iPad at $499. Unlike the iPad 2 and many other tablet devices, the Kindle Fire does not have a camera or mobile internet access.Amazon also announced a new Kindle model with a touchscreen, very close to the design of the latest Barnes &amp; Noble Nook e-reader.The Kindle Touch has a black-and-white screen, consistent with current Kindle models, and will cost $99. The non-touchscreen Kindle will cost $79, and a touchscreen Kindle with 3G internet access will cost $149.Jeff Bezos, founder and chief executive of Amazon, will aim to replicate the success enjoyed by its Kindle e-reader, which is the online retailer's best-selling product.Expectations are high for Amazon's device. Forrester research estimates that the Kindle Fire will sell between 3m and 5m units in its first year, compared to 9.3m iPads sold between April and June.The Kindle Fire comes with a 30-day free trial of Amazon Prime, the company's premium membership service that will allow users to stream videos and free delivery of goods bought via Amazon.The Kindle Fire will ship in the US from 15 November and the Touch from 21 November. The Fire and Touch will be available only in the US.Amazon is the second largest retailer of digital music in the US, behind Apple, and the Kindle Fire is aimed at streamlining the sale of music, and also magazines and movies.Amazon dominates the e-reader market with around a 50% share andsold about 3m Kindles in the fourth quarter of 2010, according to figures from research company IDC, but has never released any formal sales figures for the device with the black-and-white screen.
Samsung has agreed to pay Microsoft what could amount to hundreds of millions of dollars in royalties after it settled a bitter dispute over the Korean manufacturer's Android smartphones and tablets.The technology giants announced an agreement on Wednesday about the use of Google's Android software.Samsung will have to pay Microsoft a small fee – likely between $10 and $15 – for each Android smartphone or tablet computer it sells. Samsung has sold more than 10m Galaxy S II smartphones since its launch in May, meaning that the Asian phone maker could have to pay Microsoft royalty fees totaling $100m.The settlement is the latest development in a smartphone market besieged by acrimonious legal battles over patent issues, most relating to the increasingly popular Android software. Microsoft won a similar licensing agreement with manufacturer HTC earlier this year, and has an ongoing dispute with Motorola Mobility. Googlepaid $12.5bn (£7.6bn) in cash to acquire Motorola Mobilityin August, in a strategic move aimed to bolster the search giant's cache of patents."Microsoft and Samsung see the opportunity for dramatic growth in Windows Phone and we're investing to make that a reality," said the president of Microsoft's Windows Phone division, Andy Lees."Microsoft believes in a model where all our partners can grow and profit based on our platform."The terms of the deal were not disclosed. It is not clear whether Samsung will have to pay Microsoft retrospective royalties, or whether the deal refers to devices sold from Wednesday onwards.The agreement will also see Samsung cooperate in the development and marketing of Microsoft's Windows Phone software, which the manufacturer already offers with its Omnia range of phones.Florian Mueller, an intellectual property analyst who has followed the case, suggested the settlement raised big questions for Google's Android partnerships with other manufacturers. "This is the most important Android-related intellectual property deal in its own right, and even more significant against the background of Google's proposed acquisition of Motorola Mobility," he said."If Samsung truly believed that Google's acquisition of Motorola Mobility was going to be helpful to the Android ecosystem at large, it would have waited until that deal is closed before concluding the license agreement with Microsoft. But Samsung probably knows it can't rely on Google. It decided to address Android's intellectual property issues on its own."Google hit back at Microsoft with a punchy statement. A spokeswoman said: "This is the same tactic we've seen time and again from Microsoft. Failing to succeed in the smartphone market, they are resorting to legal measures to extort profit from others' achievements and hinder the pace of innovation. We remain focused on building new technology and supporting Android partners."
This weekend'sUntangling the Webcolumn explodes the concept of "home": difficult to define but easy to recognise, "home" is as different from "house" as "space" is different from "place".More than just semantics,environmental psychologistshave been trying to define the nuances between the emotionally warm and fuzzyhomeas distinct from the pragmatic, physicalhousesince the end of WWII. Andinteraction designershave spent two decades trying to get us to make their websites our homes online.How has the 20 years of the Web transformed what we think and feel about the concept of home? Global migration and near-ubiquitous connectivity (in many major metropolises, at least) has helped to differentiate between the physical structure and the emotional component, butas Kat Jungnickel and Genevieve Bell ask in this research paper(abstract only), is home really where the hub is?Send your thoughts and home experiences toaleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.uk, comment below or tweet@alekskwith #home and #uttw.
When I was nine, I remember sitting in the back garden of my house when two of my friends popped around. Around me were various bits of timber, a torch and a sheet of Perspex. When they asked me what I was doing I told them, matter of factly, that I was making a photocopier.The inspiration from the idea came from a lesson in school where we had been given some photographic paper and some leaves and shown how to expose the paper to create an inverse picture of one or more carefully arranged leaves. My nine-year-old brain surmised that this was exactly the right technology upon which to base a homemade photocopier. This was important as, at the time, I didn't have a photocopier readily available to me.Ignoring the obvious question of "why does a nine-year-old boy want a photocopier", I'm presenting this story in the hope that some of you out there can reflect on similar experiences. For example, like me, you may also have tried to build a heads-up display for your first car (and failed), or tried to make a light-up nose for Red Nose Day (and failed), or tried to build an answering machine (and failed).But I have over my time had far more luck tinkering with software, even during the period where I was failing to trouble Rank Xerox with my R&amp;D skills. The point is this – geeks are born young, and this article looks at the needs of young geeks in the context of UEFI secure-boot and the commoditisation of personal computing.So what is Unified Extensible Firmware Interface and secure boot?UEFI is designed to replace the old-school BIOS subsystem that can be found in every computer. (The BIOS is used to prepare the ground for loading the full-on operating system that you might have installed on your computer – eg, Linux, Mac OS X, Windows or a mixture.)UEFI is not a particularly new idea. Like everything in our industry, things change, evolve and improve and UEFI looks to fill in some gaps and make the pre-OS environment more flexible, maintainable and manageable. Why it's become relevant in the press recently is that Microsoft has stated that in order to get certification (ie, a logo) for any boxes shipped with Windows 8 pre-installed, a feature called "secure boot" has to be enabled.Secure boot is designed to stop malware shoving itself into memory before the OS proper starts to load. If malware is able to insert itself in before the operating itself loads it can circumvent and avoid any malware countermeasures that happen to be installed in the machine. Malware that works in this way is particularly evil – you would have to be a specialist in your field to even find it.Secure boot works on classic code signing principles. The Windows 8 boot loader will be signed, and burned into the UEFI chipset will come a list of valid public keys. If your boot loader is signed with a private key that matches one of the burned in keys, away you go. If not, you will be locked out. (The Build Day 1 keynote has a demonstration of this feature, one hour and nine minutes in.)Because we know that the Windows boot loader has got in first, we know for certain that malware countermeasures can be properly loaded. A whole class of malware is then knocked off of the Windows 8 platform.That sounds wonderful! Where's the beef?The problem with this arrangement is that it ties a machine that once had Windows 8 on it in such a way that it can only run Windows 8, Windows 9, Windows 10 and so on. If you want to install Linux on it, or create a Hackintosh, or make up your own operating system with secure boot enabled, your boot will fail.For reference, there's capability for extending this such that one could be prevented from installing Windows 8 Server onto a machine that was provided with a desktop-class version of Windows 8.The operative phrase in all of this is "secure boot enabled". The obvious answer is "turn off secure boot". This would then mean that you could wipe the machine and install Linux or anything else that you fancied to install.Two points for completeness:Firstly, "why can't Linux be changed to include secure boot" is hugely complicated and beyond the scope of this argument. It's all to do with the fact that the private key implementation essentially requires a closed source, proprietary operating system like Windows and not an open OS like Linux. (There's a good write-up on ARS Technical.)Secondly, there is an – what to me is a frankly thin – argument that the motherboard manufacturers won't include the switch to turn secure boot off in the UEFI settings. This just isn't the style of how these guys build motherboards – if you think about it, people who build motherboards are the geekiest of the geek, they love switches and there's no current commercial motivation for them to disable the switch.Plus having a split where some motherboards have the switch and others don't would create a split and additional complexity in the supply chain. The motivation of the supply chain tends towards simplification.Microsoft has been playing this issue down (notably in this blogpost), essentially saying it doesn't care if other people use secure boot or not – it just wants a better experience for their customers.The Horsemen are coming!Of course, they are not, but this is the sort of public spat that has the makings of a perfect storm in Geeksville – evil Microsoft trying to force motherboard makers into a decapitation attack against Linux. Not going to happen – as I suggest, Microsoft doesn't care about Linux.It even sent Linux a birthday card.The Horsemen are, however, packing for the trip!It's this whole thing, in combination with the iPad and Apple's resurgence into the personal computing market, that has me worried.I bought my iPad shortly after they were first announced – during that period when no one really knew what they were going to be used for. I only bought it our of curiosity because it's my job to understand how things work.When I started using it I realised the brilliance of it, but it's the only computing device I've ever owned that I've never tried to mess around with. I turned it on, I started to use it and I've never looked into it in any deeper sense.But I have looked forward and I'm rooting for Android and Windows 8 to produce iPad clones – not because I think there's anything wrong with what the iPad does, but because of what it says about our industry.I don't want to be in an industry where the only thing like an iPad is an iPad because – as we'll come onto – I have some problems with the way that Apple operates.For my day-to-day work, I own and use a MacBook Pro. It is probably the only piece of computer hardware that I have ever owned that I am a little bit fearful of.With a Windows machine, I always have a strong sense that I'm in the one in charge – than should shenanigans occur the thing will eventually bend to my Alpha Dog will. With my Mac, I've never been confident which side of the power battle I'm actually on. Likewise with my iPad – it's in charge of the job it does for me and I'm just going along for the ride.The problem with Apple is that the machines they make are reductive, Fisher Price-style, "push button – receive pellet" computing. I bought my wife's iPad entirely on that basis.I knew giving her an iPad to use was going to yield absolutely zero problems, whereas an Android tablet was going to result in constant stream of problems you get with non-Apple products.You see, the genius of Apple is that it creates reductive, Fisher Price-style, "push button – receive pellet" computing and if you're not a hardcore geek hacker, this is exactly what you want. "Push button – receive email", "Push button – receive email", "Push button – it turns on because the battery life is so ridiculously good".(As a sidenote, I've always found it somewhat strange that a decent sized contingent of Mac users are seriously talented hackers who eschew Windows because it's not open, but flock to OS X because it is and seem to be able to make peace with the fact that their supplier is anything but open.)Apple's approach is reductive in the sense that it reduces complexity down to a common denominator, but its skill lies in making that denominator high enough to create an interesting piece of kit.Look at an iPad's basic feature set and you'll find essentially nothing – there's not even a "clock" application. Go back to the turn of the century and you'll find the iPod. It was only a few years before that I remember to rip a CD involved one application to rip it to WAV format and another to transform it into MP3. That later conversion process used to run overnight.With iPod and the iTunes Music Store, Apple reduced down complexity of that whole thing down to – guess what – "push buy button on iMS – receive delicious musical pellet". And thus the iPod was a success because it was technology that did not get in the way.We've all been at the end of the phone trying to help a relative achieve what, to us, is a straightforward computing task. We need software to be simpler for them not just for us but so that they can be connected with the data that they need in shorter order and with less frustration.Users need to interact with computers in a "push button – receive pellet" manner, but for us to do that we paradoxically need a computing environment and industry that provides for the total opposite to that, which in my head runs like: build factory to make pellet, handle ERP functions for pellet manufacturer, run global logistics network to deliver pellet, etc.Why the UEFI Windows 8 Secure Boot thing has me worried is because actually, we've come pretty close to a decapitation attack on Linux where motherboard manufacturers either build mobos that can run Windows 8, or Apple commission custom-made kit to run OS X. It's only Microsoft's lack of interest that's kept Linux on the table. Go back a few years when Microsoft was still worried about Linux on the desktop and a little more arrogant and this story could have been pretty different.Hacking aroundIt's commoditisation of the personal computing market that is driving us towards a place where the devices that are delivered to us are locked down and sealed. iOS is unbelievably locked down, but its success shows the industry that if you lock down the OS and curate the marketplace for delivering apps to it, your malware horror story count goes to zero and your customer satisfaction increases inversely.Android, for example, has horror stories virtually every day – albeit few of them malicious. Microsoft and Apple are likely to tend towards the iOS "lock and curate" model for their desktop efforts as well.Applying "lock and curate" universally and preventing new OSes from being invented is going to cause stagnation in innovation, while providing the important benefits of increasing end-user security.I would imagine that all of you reading who know HTML learnt it by viewing the source of interesting pages. If today we want to learn how a Web 2.0 website's ajax calls are working we'll take a look at the traffic and see what's happening.None of us is looking to do any harm, but we all learn by doing and the best way to learn in the field of software engineering is to examine, copy and repurpose. Now consider the structure of Metro apps on Windows 8 – familiar technology, and yes you can watch the network traffic, but you cannot readily take it apart as you can a regular HTML application.We are tending towards less visibility of the underlying mechanisms of application construction. For the 12-year-old wannabe coder in his bedroom, this isn't good news. He's got a lot on his mind – this has to be pretty easy to keep him interested and get the momentum going.No one that we look up to in the software engineering community was created and grown in a lab in academia and decanted into the world, fully formed and able to hack rings around us. All the people that we admire and respect for their programming chops all learnt because rather than being out with their friends driving their BMXs into trees at full pelt to see who could get the best scars they were poring over some output or tweaking some code. Really good coders start young.Case in point – where would we be now if Linus Torvalds wasn't able to create his own operating system at the age of 22? Personally, if I come home from work one day and find that my children have formatted every machine in the house to make way for a home-grown supercomputing cluster – well, let's just say they'll find an extra 20p in their pocket money that week.ConclusionWe as engineers need to be able to take things apart and, much like as a child I was forever taking things apart – although as a pretty talentless physical engineer "taking things apart" was euphemism for "disassemble before landfill".As software engineers we need to be able to sniff packets, view source and disassemble code. If we can't do that, we can't learn. Importantly, if our kids aren't allowed to do that because commoditisation has created an environment that is too reductive, the next generation will be pretty crappy engineers.•Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK. His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
How can we preserve analogue culture in a digital world? Could something allow us to view, research &amp; remix cultural items? Jemima Kiss examines plans for a digital public space – a part of the internet that could grant worldwide access and create links between museums, archives and libraries.Jemima talks to Richard Ranft of the British Library and Francesca Franchi of the Royal Opera House about the items and artefacts from their archives that a digital public space could open up to the public, and how the reach of both organisations can be dramatically extended to a worldwide audience.Bill Thompson, head of partnerships at the BBC's archive (but also of the Digital Planet and Click programmes) explains how the corporation could help build what is needed, and how it could work.And Jill Cousins of europeana.eu discusses how similar project that is funded by the European Commission works, and how it has now developed into a full service.You may find it useful to refer tothis diagramby Bill Thompson, which lays out how the infrastructure for the digital public space would work.And you may also be interested in our programme from last year on the massive technical challenge todigitise the BBC's archive.Don't forget to follow us onTwitterandFacebook– anddrop us a lineif you're interested in being in the audience for a future Tech Weekly live event.
Nokia has started shipping the N9, which is expected to be the company's final smartphone before it launches devices based on Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 software.The touchscreen N9, which will not be available in key markets including the UK and US, will be the only Nokia smartphone to run Meego software.Nokia will announce details of its first Windows Phone device on 26 and 27 October in London, eight months after chief executive Stephen Eloppinned the embattled manufacturer's future on Microsoft's smartphone system. The device will use a micro-SIM card which the company hopes will tempt existing iPhone users to swap platforms.Nokia has been working on the device since it announced in February that it would abandon its Symbian smartphone platform in favour of Microsoft's new Windows Phone mobile operating system. Now Elop is preparing to unveil the device on the first day of the Nokia World show being held at London's ExCel centre.Industry sources have told the Guardian that it will use a micro-SIM – the narrow version of the card used by all mobile phones, but which has only been widely deployed in Apple's iPhone. That, sources say, will give Nokia some leverage in trying to tempt iPhone users whose contracts are ending or who want to shift across to the new platform a simpler way to transfer.Shipments of the N9 began as Microsoft introduced its biggest update for Windows Phone 7 yet, with "Mango" software being rolled out to 98% of customers.Nokia's N9 features an 8 megapixel camera, near-field communication (NFC) technology for mobile payments and up to 64GB of storage, as well as Nokia's standard turn-by-turn navigation software."Since we announced the N9 in June this year, the feedback [we've had] from discerning and avid smartphone users across the world has been nothing short of fantastic," said Ilari Nurmi, vice president of marketing at Nokia."With the innovations in industrial design, user interface and the Qt developer experience, the N9 sets the bar for how natural technology can feel, and represents the first in a number of products from Nokia that will be brought to life in similar fashion."Asked whether the company had plans to launch the N9 in the UK, a Nokia spokesman said: "We have elected to ship the N9 to those markets we believe offer the most suitable conditions required for a successful launch."The spokesman added that, after the N9, Nokia's "primary smartphone platform" will be Windows Phone, indicating that Meego software would be discontinued. He said: "[Windows] is where we will be focusing our energies and resources as we go forward. A lot of the innovation you can see in the N9 will continue to live on at Nokia in a variety of ways."Developers reacted positively to the Mango update but suggested Nokia's new devices would find it difficult to live up to expectations."The number of new features and capabilities compared to the devices that came out barely a year ago is stunning," said Al Hilwa, programme director for apps development software at analysts IDC."Windows Phone developers and those from other ecosystems like Symbian will feel like kids in a candy store with this release. Being able to showcase data and numbers in a home screen tile with the prominence that the Metro interface has to be exciting."He aded: "We are now bracing to see how exciting the devices will be, especially those from Nokia. The T-Mobile HTC device announced today is beautiful and a great start."
Ten years after its original release in Japan, puzzle platformer Ico is still as much a lonely oddity as the horned little boy the game is named for. Its only companion is the spiritual successor/possible prequel Shadow of the Colossus, and that too stands on its own, a grand and beautiful freak – not a platform game, but a boss-battle compendium with a wrenching emotional ambiguity.If you haven't played either, then the reverent tone inspired by lead designer Fumito Ueda's work might seem off-putting, or at least too awestruck for any last-gen game to justify. But revisited together in HD (and with the addition of well-executed 3D), the two games are as beguiling and brilliant as their cult-inspiring reputation suggests.While there aren't any concrete narrative links between Ico and Colossus, both seem to take place in the same world: a version of feudal Japan with terrible, elemental beings and supernatural forces. They also share an art style – a restrained, watercolour realism that rewards the HD investment with even more refinement and detail in the vast landscapes and dizzying architecture.Ico polishes up slightly better, thanks to some distracting pop-in and pop-up in Colossus – though it's pure churlishness to pick fault with such a huge and extraordinary world. Ico is also marginally more satisfying to play (even if, again, that feels a bit like punishing Colossus for being ambitious).It starts out sombre, with the child hero being immured in a sarcophagus. Tumbled free by an earthquake, you begin to explore the castle, with its crumbled walkways, mysterious switches, movable boxes and climbable chains.The feeling of isolation is invoked so powerfully by the artful sound design (sparse use of music, echoing footsteps inside and the vertiginous rush of wind when you stand on the castle walls) that finding your companion and helpmate Yorda brings on an extraordinarily strong emotional attachment. Even the most battle-hardened heart will break a little at Ico's plaintive call of "Oompa!" when he seeks his friend, and Yorda's urgent answering cries.The milk-coloured girl has to be led through the castle and defended from smoke-like spirits that erupt from the ground, complicating the pleasingly thought-provoking levels and breaking up your wanderings with some stick-thwacking combat.In looks, story and gameplay, it comes close to perfect. The only thing it doesn't excel at (because it doesn't really do it) is action – and that's something Colossus offers in mountain-sized helpings.Again, you start in a castle, on a mission to save a girl and with one powerful relationship defining the game – although this time, the girl is dead, you've entered a Faustian pact to save her, and the relationship is with your horse, Aggro.Given the task of killing 16 ancient colossi by a strange double-voiced entity, you gallop across the landscape in search of victims in turn, passages of pastoral exploration punctuated by epic battles.The colossi are tough opponents. Each has a weak spot, but scaling their cragged bodies to reach the glowing stab points involves a lot more falling off and swearing than seems appropriate to an epic hero. The camera turns out to be a dubious ally as well, often swinging behind a rock just as a colossus lifts a massive paw to squish the lifebar out of you.That's not the hardest thing, though – the hardest thing is the suspicion that you shouldn't be hurting them at all, as a massive, sloth-like face peers at you with an expression of gentle accusation.It's a rare game that can make you love the thing you're supposed to be killing, but then there really isn't anything else like Ico and Colossus. At least, not until The Last Guardian – the third game from Ueda – pads its way onto PlayStation next year.• Game reviewed on PS3
The bulk of social games publisher Zynga's revenues come from its games on Facebook. However, the company is investing significantly in mobile gaming too, having built a team under former Yahoo executive David Ko, and acquired several mobile development studios around the world.I interview Ko in Zynga's San Francisco office the day before Facebook's f8 conference, the same week as it launched an Android version of its popular mobile title Hanging With Friends, while also adding new features and in-app payments to the iOS version."We believe that mobile represents a new social gaming frontier," says Ko. "We've always said we want Zynga to be the best content creators in the world, and we are platform agnostic. More and more of our players are not just accessing their favourite games from their PC, but from their mobile devices: they want the experience on their mobiles and tablets, and we want to deliver that."Zynga is no newcomer to mobile games: it released Zynga Poker early in the App Store's life in 2008. However, in interviews at the time, chief executive Mark Pincus told me that the lack of built-in viral mechanisms on iPhone - this was in the days before Facebook Connect - was an inhibiting factor for social games like Zynga's.According to Ko, Pincus is now more optimistic. "Mark believes that mobile really has the potential to live up to its expectations that we've all been talking about," he says. "We see more and more players accessing stuff from their mobile devices. Sometimes they want an experience that mimics what they're seeing on their PC, and sometimes they want something very customised for their mobile device."Zynga has done both: the iOS version of FarmVille mirrors the version on Facebook, you play the same farm across both. More recently, though, CityVille got a standalone mobile game called CityVille Hometown. Some rewards earned in the latter translated into the former, but otherwise they were separate cities: separate games."The market is very fragmented today, with iOS, Android, BlackBerry, Windows Phone… It's a fragmented industry, and we're trying to figure out what the best experience is for these devices," says Ko. "Our job is to tailor the experience for those people, and while you may see a more fragmented experience on mobile today, I do believe over time you'll see a consolidation of that experience."Words With Friends has become the first Zynga game to start on mobile – it was originally developed as an iPhone game by developer Newtoy, which was then acquired in December 2010 – but subsequently be turned into a Facebook game. Ko says this made for an interesting conversion process, and possibly a better one than simply porting Facebook games to mobiles."So many times, developers think 'we can build for the PC, then take features away to optimise it for the mobile device', so it's essentially a different experience," he says. "But in this case, it was going from small to big. What was the best thing we can build for mobile, centred around performance, speed and user fun, and then build that out for a tablet and then a PC?"Ko says Zynga is also trying to figure out how best to use specific features of mobile devices, like cameras, accelerometers and the touchscreens. Meanwhile, he is also "very bullish" on tablets, citing his own experience of using his PC less at home since getting a tabletWhen deciding which existing Zynga games to bring from Facebook to mobile devices, Ko says his team does a lot of brainstorming, with people on one game's team invited to suggest ideas based on other titles – "just because you work in the mobile poker division doesn't mean you can't have ideas for things in the fashion industry or a CityVille Hometown type of game" – and says that there will be more mobile games which, like that latter title, link into their Facebook versions with specific quests and rewards.Ko is enthusiastic about the improvement in mobile and tablet hardware, as well as the speed of mobile networks. He warns, however, that Zynga is not intending to make use of specific features for the sake of it."It's one thing many people miss: 'look at this cool function, let's just incorporate it'. They don't ask themselves the key question about whether it's fun. There are things we could use on the device but chose not to, because we don't think it's fun and neither do our players. It's something we always come back to as a company: is it fun? We ask that question every step of the way in the development process."One technology predicted to spark fun times for mobile social game developers is HTML5, with the suggestion that their games will move back to the browser on mobile devices. Zynga already has a foot in mobile web gaming, having launched a browser-based mobile version of Mafia Wars. It has also acquired companies with expertise in this area, including Dextrose.Meanwhile, Facebook is expected to unveil something called Project Spartan in the next few weeks, extending its web applications platform to mobile, providing a browser-based rival ecosystem to the Apple and Google app stores. Zynga will surely be heavily involved, although Ko unsurprisingly talks more generally about its ambitions."For very new platform that's introduced, if our players are asking for us to be on those platforms, we want to be there," he says. "HTML5 is interesting, although I do feel it is early. With those acquisitions, you can see into our thinking in this area a little bit."Every mobile game developer and their aunt seems to be diving into the free-to-play social mobile games market at the moment, which Ko says he welcomes – "the competition will make everybody in the ecosystem get better". He's also keeping tabs on a host of developers, with an eye to potential partnerships (or even acquisitions, presumably).He does have a warning for studios who think it is easy cracking the freemium business model. "The barriers to entry are low, but it's hard to scale those games, come out with new games and iterate quickly," he says."Some of the biggest titles out there in the industry had to go through many iterations to get to where they're at. The bar is low to get in, but high to develop high-quality and fun games that come out one after the other. And that's the key: they've got to be fun."
A selection of 9 new apps for you today:djay – David Guetta EditionDJ and producer David Guetta has released his latest app, working with developer algoriddim on a remixing application including samples and drum beats from his new album. The app can also be used to create DJ mixes of the songs already in your iPhone's music library.iPhoneMcAfee Family ProtectionSecurity firm McAfee's new app is aimed at parents worried their child is surfing nefarious websites on their Android smartphone. It filters websites in the default Android browser by category, and also prevents children from downloading and using other browsers, and claims to have "uninstall protection" to stop them from removing the McAfee software. But will it defeat the ingenuity of the average teenager?AndroidTrain TicketsCrossCountry Trains has a new smartphone app in the UK offering real-time travel information and – on routes that support it – mobile ticketing too. The latter come as 2D barcodes and readable tickets, scanned by staff on the trains.iPhone / Android / BlackBerry / SymbianRexlyIt's a shame that music discovery app Rexly is unavailable in the UK, as it looks interesting. The app plays people's iTunes music, while showing them what friends are listening to. Can it succeed where Apple has (so far) struggled to build a music-focused social network on iPhone though?iPhoneDiabetes UK TrackerCharity Diabetes UK has launched an iPhone app to help people monitor their daily levels, and share the data with doctors and their friends. It tracks blood glucose, insulin, carbs, calories, weight and ketones, and even enables people to snap photos of their meals for reference.iPhoneIMDb TriviaFilm website IMDb has launched a free iPhone game that aims to test people's knowledge of films, TV shows and celebrities. It's a trivia quiz with five difficulty levels and in-app purchases for new question packs.iPhoneaRMadilloFinancial app aRMadillo grabs company information from around the world, including data and credit reports.iPhone / BlackBerryPenn &amp; Teller: Guess The LieAnother social TV app, although this one's US-only. Magicians Penn &amp; Teller have a new show on Discovery Channel there, and its official app synchronises with the live broadcasts so viewers can play along.iPhoneCorona Appy HourA spot-the-difference game for iPad, sponsored by alcohol brand Corona. Also "reminds you to relax responsibly", naturally.iPad
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamITV documentary in IRA computer game blunder &gt;&gt; BBC News"ITV has apologised after footage it said was from an IRA propaganda video was in fact from a computer game. "The pictures were used in 'Exposure', a documentary aired on ITV1 on Monday which focused on Colonel Gadaffi's links with the republican movement. "It claimed footage labelled 'IRA film 1988' was of terrorists using Libyan weapons to shoot down the aircraft. "The pictures were from a game called ArmA 2. ITV has said the mistake was 'an unfortunate result of human error'." As opposed to the other sort of result of human error?Disabling third-party cookies doesn't (meaningfully) improve privacy &gt;&gt; Kevin Montrose"At time of writing, only two browsers interfere with third-party cookies in any meaningful way. Internet Explorer denies setting third-party cookies unless a P3P header is sent. This is basically an evil bit, and just as pointless. No other browser even pretends to care about this standard. "The other is Apple's Safari browser, which denies setting third-party cookies unless a user has "interacted" with the framed content. The definition of "interacted" is a bit fuzzy, but clicking seems to do it. No other browser does this, or anything like it. There are some laughably simple hacks around this, like floating an iframe under the user's cursor (and, for some reason, submitting a form with a POST method). Even if those hacks didn't exist, the idea is still pointless."MySQL.com root access sold for $3k, serves malware &gt;&gt; Krebs on Security"A security firm revealed today that mysql.com, the central repository for widely-used Web database software, was hacked and booby-trapped to serve visitors with malicious software. The disclosure caught my eye because just a few days ago I saw evidence that administrative access to mysql.com was being sold on the hacker underground for just $3,000. "Web security firm Armorize stated in its blog that mysql.com was poisoned with a script that invisibly redirects visitors to a Web site that uses the BlackHole exploit pack, an automated exploit toolkit that probes visiting browsers for a variety of known security holes. "It exploits the visitor's browsing platform (the browser, the browser plugins like Adobe Flash, Adobe PDF, etc, Java, ...), and upon successful exploitation, permanently installs a piece of malware into the visitor's machine, without the visitor's knowledge," say the researchers." Advice: access it through curl.H-P's PC Chief Waits for Resolution &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Todd Bradley, the head of Hewlett-Packard Co.'s personal-computer division, has faced many questions about its future since the company broached the idea last month of spinning off the business. His new boss hasn't exactly clarified the situation. "Meg Whitman, elevated last week from a director to chief executive of the Silicon Valley giant, vowed to come to a decision by year-end about the PC unit's fate. But she also promised to take a fresh look at the options, while saying that she supported the board's decision to evaluate a spinoff. 'I will obviously step back and take a hard look at this,' Ms. Whitman said in a Thursday conference call." The smack of firm indecision un-making.Android phones outselling iPhone by two to one in the US &gt;&gt; Mobile Industry | Mobile Entertainment"43% of smartphone shoppers chose [an] Android device; 28% go iPhone. "The numbers come from the latest Nielsen monthly survey and will hardly surprise anyone. A success of reports have indicated the rampant growth of Android, which benefits from being embedded in dozens of devices against iPhone's one." Well, to be picky: 1) at least two iPhones (3GS, 4) 2) iPhone isn't available on all the US networks - yes, it's on the two biggest which have 64% of subscribers. Android is on carriers covering 100% of subscribers. So true, not that surprising that Android is doing better. Nielsen's numbers suggest 43% ownership of smartphones generally: that's remarkably high compared to other surveys.Apple is quietly disintermediating Google in mobile search &gt;&gt; SplatFDan Frommer: "Apple is not building a web search engine -- yet, that I know of. But through its new, voice-controlled mobile "Assistant" feature in iOS 5, Apple could change the way people think of searching, building search-and-retrieve directly into the iOS user interface. (Expect an unveiling early next month.) And that could potentially start to loosen Google's grip on search." The "Assistant" feature, with voice searching, is going to be a key element of iOS5 and the next iPhone.A New Flavor...Still Delicious &gt;&gt; AVOSWhat the YouTube founders did next: "We feel a bit like Marty today as we launch the new Delicious. After acquiring the service from Yahoo! in April, we realized that in order to keep innovating over the long term, the eight-year-old site needed to be rebuilt from the ground up. The result is a new homepage, interface and back-end architecture designed to make Delicious easier to use." They also changed the API output and the RSS feed locations. This is a great way to really annoy your users. (Pinboard.in is still open for [paid-for] registration, and it uses the same old Delicious API method.)Research in Motion Rallies on Magic Unicorn Rescue &gt;&gt; MarketBeat - WSJ"Shares of Research in Motion -- which if the tech sector were Highlights Magazine, would be the Goofus to Apple's Gallant -- are up more than 6% today on a heavily circulated market rumor that a unicorn is riding to its rescue. "The unicorn is named Unicarl Unicahn, and his approach to save RIM is being reported widely by blogs and Twitter, so it must be true." Analyst says: "Given the current valuation and significant interest especially by non-North American handset vendors, we cannot rule-out a potential hostile bid in the near term. Based on a preliminary back-of-the-envelope calculation, we believe a bid in excess of $40 per share is plausible in such a situation." RIM present stock? Around $22.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Last October, Mike Bithell was a designer at Blitz Games Studios when he decided to write his own game in 24 hours. The result wasThomas Was Alone, a prototype puzzle platformer with minimalist visuals and and an underlying theme about the importance of friendship. Later, he moved south to join up with social gaming start upBossa Studios, but kept polishing his lone side-project at night.This week, we're catching up with Mike after a successful Eurogamer Expo where Bossa demoed its latest title to hundreds of attendees. As for Thomas Was Alone, according to Mike's excellent development blog, he's been adding adynamic cameraand aprocedural music systemto the game. So what else has been going on?You've just been at the Eurogamer Expo with your day job Bossa Studios. How did that go?It was awesome. It was the first I've been to, saw a lot of old friends and made a couple of new ones. I was there showing off Monstermind with the rest of the mindbogglingly creative Bossa crew, and it went down really well. We actually managed to convince a room full of gamers to put down the controllers and try a social game. We got a lot of great coverage on the blogs, and tons of great feedback. After four days straight, sleeping was good fun too.How are things going with Thomas Was Alone at the moment?Thomas is code complete! Everything is working now, from particle effects to save files. I'm frankly shocked at how well it's holding up. Now, my focus moves to level creation, and proper design. I've built the tools the way I like to work, so I'm excited to get stuck in and start using them. The next job: build some demo levels and a trailer for my first round of playtests and GameCity. I'm proud to be taking a playable version out in public for the first time at this awesome event. Check out my blog for info once I've worked out my schedule!How has work gone on Thomas Was Alone over the summer?Everything was a little bit practical. Developing your first game in a new engine has the awkward side-effect of generating a lot of messy hack work. In July and August I went through every broken script, every shoddily put together asset and managed to clean them up. The game now runs super fast. It's a well oiled, if slightly ugly machine. I've also plugged in a cool menu.Behind the scenes I was finding some collaborators to make the art and audio of the game sing. I'll be able to show off, and take full credit for, their work soon!How about the underlying game code?I tought myself a new engine –Unity– and attempting to use an exciting new project management system –post-it notes– to get all the jobs done. I always tend to lean towards the big exciting graphics and design jobs, and my wall of post-its helps to push me towards the less sexy world of menu set up and save data management. I'm about two or three weeks from full engine completion, and then my focus moves to level creation.How are you finding Unity? It just seems to be omnipresent with indie coders at the moment.It's excellent. It's an engine without legacy, designed for today's computers and design practices. I love it, and have become a disgustingly loud evangelist. All the game's assets are done in engine, procedurally, so my animations are handled byiTween, a stunning bit of middleware for animation in Unity. I also only use one mesh, a 2D plane created byQuickfingerz, a very cool Unity dev celebrity who happens to live five minutes down the road from me.How about the look and feel of the game?Design-wise, my biggest challenge has been one of adaptation. The core design of Thomas Was Alone was defined by the Flash prototype, but for the real thing, I've expanded on those mechanics. Finding platformer concepts which fit around the co-operative nature of the game, and open new possibilities, has been a cool job. So far, I've got anti-grav characters, bouyant characters, moving platforms and self-generating level geometry. I dare say I'll sneakily add a few more before launch.That all sounds quite technically challenging. Has your coding improved through working on this game?Programming is a means to an end for me, a way of making my design ideas work. That said, I've obviously been teaching myself to script in Unity. It's a bit of a change from Actionscript or other scripting environments I've used before. I'm learning as I go, and the community is a big help! The big shift is away from the timeline – which I lazily still rely on in Actionscript – and towards more grown up functions and objects. Scary stuff...You can find out more about our Indie Dozen projecthere.
Oh hello Wednesday, we've been expecting you...
Google is to open a multimillion-pound "technology community centre" in London's East End, as part of the government's plans to create a Tech City in the capital.The seven-floor building will act as a shared space for the growing cluster of internet companies based in the heart of London's so-called "Silicon Roundabout", the internet giant said.The announcement comes just 48 hours after Twitter confirmed that it would open a major international office in Dublininstead of east London. The move was seen as a huge blow to David Cameron's Tech City vision.The prime minister revealed the plans to create a rival to Silicon Valley in November last year, backed by £400m in government funding and with support from technology firms including BT, Cisco, Facebook and Google.Google said the Bonhill Street office would undergo refurbishment before it is opened to the public in 2012. The US-based company will have a presence in the office, a Google spokesman said, but the space will mainly be used as a training workshop for startups in the capital."We announced our involvement in the Tech City project last year, and we've been working hard to make this vision a reality," said the Google UK engineering director, David Singleton."Finding a suitable building is the first major step, and we hope to announce more details about the organisations we'll work with and how they will use the space in the coming months. East London is already home to hundreds of innovative British startups and has huge potential for economic growth and new jobs over the coming years."One of the organisations thought likely to have a presence in the new building isTechHub, the Old Street office for fledgling internet firms that opened in July last year. Google was one of the founding partners of TechHub, alongside Telefonica's developer programme Blue Via and publisher Pearson.Elizabeth Varley, co-founder of TechHub, said it was "great to see companies [that are] talking about supporting Tech City actually moving ahead and doing it in a real way". She added Twitter's decision not to open an office in east London was not a huge blow for the area, saying that the social network "is not the be-all-and-end-all of the London startup scene".The chancellor, George Osborne, said the move showed the Britain "is open for high-tech business". He added: "Google's multimillion-pound investment in London's Tech City is great news."It shows that we can create the right environment to attract startups and established high-technology businesses, supporting our programme to create new jobs, diversify the economy and create long-term economic growth. This shows that Britain is open for high-tech business."
Amazon is set to join the tablet wars as it launches a rival to Apple's best-selling iPad, a device that has made digital tombstones of all the competition so far.The online retailer has released no details ahead of Wednesday's press conference in New York, but the device is reportedly called Kindle Fire, to tie in with its existing ebook reader.If the Fire does prove to be an iPad rival it will pitch the brainchildren of Steve Jobs and Jeff Bezos, two of Silicon Valley's most innovative tech giants, against each other in a battle analysts say will present the biggest challenge yet to Apple's dominance of the tablet market.With so little detail available Gartner analyst Michael Gartenberg said he was reluctant to speculate too much. "But it feels like something big is about to happen," he said.Apple has increasingly encroached on Amazon's business in recent years as its iTunes store has poached more music, movie and now books and magazine sales. Amazon has been building its online presence, too, and entered the hardware business with the launch of Kindle.The retailer is the biggest online books seller and the US's second largest seller of music online after Apple's iTunes, and it has been increasingly building up its online movies and TV sales and rentals business. The company signed a deal with Fox this week that it said means it now offers more than 11,000 movies and TV shows available via its Amazon Prime service.Amazon is also competing with Apple to offer a cloud-based media storage service that would allow customers to access anything they buy on any device connected to the internet. Amazon has its own app store already and access to the purchasing habits of its millions of customers and their credit card accounts."Amazon has tremendous reach. That makes a huge difference," says Gartenberg. The retailer has a very different approach to Apple, he said, but that is what may make them Apple's biggest threat to date."The Kindle for Amazon was about selling books and magazines. Apple's business is about selling devices. You are looking at very different approaches," he said.Amazon hopes its brand recognition and loyal book-buying customer base will enable it to do battle with Apple, which produced 75% of the tablets sold this year.Research firm Forrester reckons the Kindle tablet could sell between 3m and 5m units in its first year.But for all Amazon's muscle, Apple has so far proved a tough competitor. Rival products from Dell, Hewlett Packard and Blackberry maker RIM have all bombed.According to reports from technology website TechCrunch, the Kindle Fire looks like the BlackBerry PlayBook. RIM said recently it had sold 200,000 of its PlayBooks in the last three months — about what Apple sells in three days.TechCrunch says Kindle Fire will be a 7in tablet with a $250 price tag. The initial version will offer wireless functionality but no 3G; it will also have a USB port and speakers, but no camera. A bigger, more expensive model will launch next year.For Colin Gillis, analyst at of BGC Financial, the Kindle Fire sounds more iPod than iPad. Its slimmed-down design sounds like it will be aimed a mass market of people who want a device to watch movies on, read books, listen to music and don't need all the bells and whistles of a fully functioning iPad, he said.The Kindle Fire is expected to receive a full release in the second week of November seeking to target the important Christmas market. Apple, too, is said to be working on a new iPad for imminent release – and will be watching very carefully for any signs of new gaps in the market.Gillis this to be a vicious fight. "The tablet is the new store front," he said. Of all the tech giants to enter the tablet wars so far, Amazon is the one with the most to offer and the most to lose.
