One of three interface mock-ups for open-source web browser FirefoxIt seems like only last week when I upgraded to Firefox 3.5.1, which it was, and now, we're talking not only about version 3.7 but also the next big upgrade to 4.0. TheMozilla has released screenshots for comment of the Windows versionof their next full point upgrade.The mock-ups show three few different versions: One withtabs below the navigation toolbar,another with tabs aboveand another with a "combo stop/refresh/go button". Mozilla's Wiki says these designs are not final and are simply for "brainstorming/exploration". "Feedback is entirely welcome and encouraged. Hit the discussion button at the top :)"As Stephen Shankland at C|Net's Webware blog notes, the design with the tabs on top definitely look familiar,with more than a passing resemblance like Google's Chrome. However, the designers referred to this proposal as "more contentious" and listed the pros and cons of the design including that it broke with the current design and page titles were truncated.Two things to note, this is the look for Windows Vista and Windows 7 users running Microsoft's Aero interface. There weren't any screenshots of Firefox on Linux or Apple's OS X. Also, if you're like me and don't run Aero because of the load on your graphics card or still run Windows XP quite a bit, you won't see the glassy, transparent look although the window elements and design remain the same. If you'd like to check out theFirefox 3.7 interface mockups, they are also available.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Remember when gaming was exclusively for the young? Go back twenty, or even ten, years and the audience for gaming was primarily under 25. Ok, there were exceptions. PC gaming, think flight sims and the like, were appreciated by the 30-somethings but gaming was predominantly a young person's, er, game. Not any more. Well at leastaccording to the US Games retail association.Older gamers continue to be engaged by video games, rather than dropping out and being replaced by a new generation. Once a consumer decides to play video games, they continue to play for life – adding to the growing number of gamers worldwide.Clearly the Wii and DS have bought in older gamers. Everyone has anecdotal stories about their mum or gran playing Wii Sports around the Christmas tree. But perhaps the more interesting story here is that, "older gamers continue to be engaged by video games rather than dropping out". In my experience this seems to be true, with most of my friends still as keen on games in their thirties as they were in their teens, What has changed, of course, is the amount of time available to play. Young families, socialising and work are just not conducive to 50-hour Oblivion or Final Fantasy sessions. This doesn't mean that older gamers stick to quick hit XBLA/PSN snacks but  it tends to mean, at best, that games simply take longer to complete. What 30-something gamer doesn't have a pile of unfinished games demanding attention?And then there's online gaming. There was that recentblindingly obvious reportthat teenage boys use the Xbox rather than phone to communicate. Who'd have thought eh? I'd say that was fairly common in older gamers too. Playing online, especially with friends and particularly in co-op, is another reason why the EMA are probably right and gamers will be playing while pulling a pension.Of course, the games industry is too young to really know if consumers will actually play for life. Most of the Atari/NES/Spectrum/C64 gamers were kids and so mainly now in their 30s and 40s. We'll have to give it another 20 years or so to see if gaming really is for life. But as long as the industry continues to broaden its range – Gears of War 5 is really not going to appeal to your average 40-something – then I think it could be.What do you think then? Will you be gaming for life? Or is this just a passing phase?
Broadband customers are being sold super-fast connections that their providers are unable to achieve, according to research that shows internet users are struggling with speeds of less than half the rate they signed up to.The media and telecoms watchdog, Ofcom, examined the most popular broadband product advertised as offering speeds of "up to" 8 megabits per second and used by 57% of homes. The report, published today, says, on average, users are getting speeds of just 3.9Mb. That means a DVD-quality film would take more than two hours to download – longer than it takes to watch it – compared to just over an hour at the faster speed.Fewer than one in 10 households on an up to 8Mb service get over 6Mb and no one can ever receive the full speed because of the way the internet service providers (ISPs) run their networks, the report said. The average speed for all broadband connections in the UK, according to Ofcom, is just 4.1Mb. That doubles the time it takes to download a music track – 10 seconds as opposed to 5 seconds at the fast rate.The lower speeds have led to a flurry of complaints from consumers. More than one in five of those surveyed by Ofcom expressed dissatisfaction with the speed they are getting while 26% said they did not get the speed they expected to receive when they signed up.The research comes after Gordon Brown recently said broadband internet access was as important to British homes as gas and electricity. It also shows a wide disparity in the service from individual service providers: Tiscali and AOL, both owned by Carphone Warehouse's TalkTalk, scored lowest on speed while Virgin Media's comparable up to 10Mb service was the fastest, not least because it uses different technology and its network only reaches half the country.The survey, compiled by technology experts SamKnows and market research firm GfK, tracked the internet connections of more than 1,600 users over six months in a process that involved 60m readings. It also proves what many consumers have been complaining about for some time: during peak times internet connections are being slowed down. Between 8pm and 10pm when many people are using video services such as the BBC's iPlayer, the average speed of a top-of-the-range service slows by more than half.Consumer groups have called for widespread changes to the advertising of broadband connections. "There are some real questions to ask around the transparency of advertising in this industry," said Matt Bath, technology editor at Which?.The Communications Consumer Panel, which advises Ofcom on consumer issues, has been pushing for advertising using claims of up-to speeds to be scrapped in favour of average speed, but has been frustrated by the lack of reliable data. Its chair, Anna Bradley, believes the new Ofcom research could provide a fresh benchmark that will give consumers a much better idea of what they can expect before they sign on the dotted line."The Ofcom work is incredibly helpful because it exposes just how little the up- to speeds mean and exposes how variable the service level is from one provider to another," she said. "The fact that they are still advertised with 'up-to' speeds is deeply problematic."But Ofcom's Peter Phillips, said ISPs "are not lying to consumers. If you are very close to the exchange you can get those speeds."Late last year the industry agreed a voluntary code of practice with Ofcom which has been signed by 50 of the UK's biggest ISPs, accounting for 95% of all internet connections.It requires them to tell customers the maximum speed they can expect from their line, as speed is affected by distance from the local telephone exchange, and allow them to trade down if they cannot get the service they want. Ofcom is currently undertaking a so-called "mystery shopper" exercise to ensure the code is working, but if consumers are being mis-sold, Ofcom could introduce a mandatory code of practice which the whole industry would be required to abide by and would include penalties.BT has already attacked the report as "unreliable" because it used too few people, and as out of date because the company is migrating to new broadband technology. TalkTalk, meanwhile, has pointed out that it is moving Tiscali customers on to its own network, which should improve their service. A Virgin Media spokesman said: "It's what customers get, not what their ISP claims, that counts."
After last week'saccusations by the BBCthat Spinvox - the speech-to-text system to turn mobile answerphone messages into text messages - was using humans to do the conversion, and that some of the data involved was being transferred outside the European Economic Area (EEA) - which would breach the Data Protection Act for any British calls - the company has hit back with a rebuttal on its company blog.James Whatley, in charge of the social media side of Spinvox, was away on holiday last week. Now he has adetailed blogpostwhich goes through the claims and responds to each one in some detail. He's not come to apologise; he's come for a dustup. He begins:In short:- Yes we use humans (sometimes).- Yes some of them are based overseas.- Yes we have extremely high security standards.To the assertion that Spinvox uses people to translate speech into text, he says:"No. Spinvox uses Humans [sic] to step in when the automated parts of our service need help. This is not brand new information. In fact, we've been talking about the role of people in 'live learning' for some time now."To the second assertion -  "There is a facebook group sharing confidential information from actual SpinVox voice messages" - he responds"No. But there is a facebook group sharing training information from fictional SpinVox voice messages. To elaborate on this further, the Egyptian call centre in question 'which used to work for SpinVox' was trialling our software as part of our constant efforts to better our service."Funnily enough, Raya, the QC house in question failed to meet all of the stringent standards during training and we never commenced work with them. Surprising that this same QC house is now leaking 'data'? I think not."He insists that Spinvox only gets people to listen to messages if "the machine needs help" and that "the agents in question will only ever hear/see the specific parts of the message that need work on. They never see fully automated message conversions because we don't send them on once they're complete." He won't however say what proportion of messages are listened to by people - because that is "so business critical to our operation that we simply cannot share it."The problem: if rivals know how much Spinvox has to rely on people, they can figure out its costs and how to undercut it. (Media newsdesks were bombarded with would-be Spinvox rivals talking up their products last week when this story broke.)That's a pretty full rebuttal of the BBC's story so far. But there's still more: the Data Protection angle. And on this, Spinvox isn't on quite such solid ground. Whatley again:SpinVox's entry on the Data Protection Register says that we do not send any personal data outside of the UK as a DATA CONTROLLER. This much is entirely accurate.Information related to the owner of the message is defined as 'personal data' and this information does indeed stay with in the European Economic Area (EEA). This is information like such as telephone number, email address and so on.DATA PROCESSING however is not covered (and is not required to be covered) under our entry in the Register.Converting voice messages is classed as 'processing data'."BUT! What about ALL that personal data in each and every voicemail?!" I hear you cry.. Yes. Well.Any messages that need analysis for further conversion are COMPLETELY anonymised before being sent out of SpinVox data centres to QC houses whether in the UK or otherwise.Now, that's perhaps not as reassuring as you might like. But at least it's open.One other point: Whatley says that signups for Spinvox in the week since the revelations have gone... up. Make of that what you will.
Modern Hollywood loves to reboot. Star Trek, Batman Begins, Halloween, Friday the 13th... It is a brilliant means of both exploiting a familiar brandandmaking the new product seem fresh and innovative. And by repackaging a franchise, the canny studios are appeasing die-hard fans while simultaneously providing an entry point for newcomers who have not followed the established mythology. It's also a teeny bit post-modern and self-reflexive, and we love that sort of stuff these days.With rebooting so common in the movie and comic book worlds, could the tactic be similarly employed by the games industry? Well, yeah, it already is.Prince of Persia: Sands of Time effectively rebooted Ubisoft's athletic platformer series, and arguably, last year's Prince of Persia did it again - adopting the familiar rebooting tactic of reverting to the original title (see also Turok and the forthcoming Wolfenstein). Tomb Raider: Legend was marketed as a reboot to a tired series, which was dealt a sickening blow to the cranium by the awful Angel of Darkness; there are also rumours knocking about that the next title in the series will restructure the game as an open-world survival horror romp, bringing Lara slap-bang up to date with current design trends.Elsewhere, EA is very much selling Need for Speed: Shift as a reboot, getting it back to the basics of driving slick cars really fast, rather than coming on like an interactive version of The Fast and Furious, ripped from the idle imaginings of an attention deficit adolescent. Capcom, though, has hinted that the next Resident Evil game will be amore radicalrethink of the survival horror genre, out-rebooting Resi 4, which, come to think of it, was more a re-tune than a reboot because it existed largely in the same narrative continuity as its predecessors. And on the subject of survival horror, the forthcoming Silent Hill: Shattered Memories purports to be a re-thinking of the first title, using the same lead character and plot, and banishing memories of the later, much less successful, sequels.Fans of fighting robots can also look forward to a reboot of the MechWarrior franchise, which was massive on the PC in the nineties.According to IGN, it's being designed by Jordan Weisman who was one of the creators of the BattleTech role-playing game from which the PC sims were taken.If anything, the concept of the reboot makes more sense in the videogame sector than it does in movies. For a start, games are complex entities, with each new iteration in a familiar series adding many, many hours of fresh narrative content. Entering, say, the Zelda, Resident Evil, Half-Life, Dragon Quest or Metal Gear worlds at this stage must be massively intimidating - even if the developers go to great lengths to make each entry work as a singular, self-contained entity within the canon.Also, videogames are going through a paradigm shift in terms of popular appeal at the moment. The faithful audience of young males has been joined  by new demographics brought in by the Wii, PC casual games, and now the iPhone. Many of these people may be vaguely aware of long-running game brands, but won't have a clue about the key characters, sign post events and basic gameplay mechanisms. These issues can easily be resolved via a quick switch off/switch on - as JJ Abrams brilliantly proved with the recent movie, Star trek, which explicitly jettisoned decades worth of mythology, plot and character development to welcome in a fresh batch of kids brought up on flashier sci-fi fare (like, of course, the rebooted Battlestar Galactica).So, which videogame series' - defunct or current - do you think would be ripe for this kind of re-appraisal and re-imagining? The remake of the original Monkey Island title may show there's a market for classic adventure titles, so I could see Zork, Myst (recently re-released on iPhone) or King's Quest making a welcome return in new forms. I'd also love to see mid-nineties faves like Baldur's Gate and Oddworld re-thought for the 21st century.How about you?
Internet users cried 'censorship' when AT&amp;T users reported that the US telecom giant and ISP was blocking 4Chan, a messageboard that has launched a thousand internet pranks and memes and can claim to be the home of the Rickroll.Users in southern California first reported the block, and the reports were quickly picked up on tech and social media sitesTechCrunch,Mashableand Gawker.For a while, it looked like it was going to be internet fight club, with Gawker saying, "AT&amp;T Has Managed To Piss Off the Wrong Bunch of Web-Nerds". Even FoxNews,predicted the mother of all internet battles.AT&amp;T is an easy target for claims of censorship. The company has activelylobbied against 'net neutrality', and a whistle blower implicated the corporation indomestic spying operations for the NSA. But were they actually censoring the site or was there another explanation?Steve Ragan at Tech Herald was one of the first to ask whether 4Chan was being blocked due to an attack rather than censorship.4Chan had been down on the 15 July due to a distributed denial of service, DDoS, attack so it wouldn't have been the first attack.Shon Elliot, a senior network engineer at ISP unWired Broadband, said on the North American Network Operators Group (NANOG) message board that his company had toblock traffic from a 4Chan IP address because of complaints from their customers. Elliot wrote:4chan has been under attack for over 3 weeks, the attacks filling up an entire GigE. If you want to blame anyone, blame the script kiddies who pull this kind of stunt.In anotherpost to NANOG, Elliot said, "This ISN'T the first time it's happened, as 4chan goes through DDoSes from script kiddies on a regular basis, and it harms lots of networks along the way in the process."This particular attack is known as a SYN flood or ACK attack. Slashdot user iYk6 has a good explanation of this kind of attack.Ordinarily, a TCP connection is set up when you send a SYN packet to a website, such as 4chan, and then 4chan responds with a ACK, and then you respond again with a SYN-ACK.Here is how an ACK attack works. I, the attacker, will send a SYN packet to 4chan, but I am pretending to be you, or your IP address. 4chan then sends an ACK packet to you, excepting a SYN-ACK in response. However, you did not initiate the connection, so you send a RST back to 4chan (or nothing at all, depending on your firewall settings).Then I do it again. And again. I effectively flood both you and 4chan with meaningless traffic.AT&amp;T has released this statement saying that it did block4Chan for content reasons but for a denial of service attack coming from img.4chan.org:Beginning Friday, an AT&amp;T customer was impacted by a denial-of-service attack stemming from IP addresses connected to img.4chan.org. To prevent this attack from disrupting service for the impacted AT&amp;T customer, and to prevent the attack from spreading to impact our other customers, AT&amp;T temporarily blocked access to the IP addresses in question for our customers. This action was in no way related to the content at img.4chan.org; our focus was on protecting our customers from malicious traffic.Overnight Sunday, after we determined the denial-of-service threat no longer existed, AT&amp;T removed the block on the IP addresses in question. We will continue to monitor for denial-of-service activity and any malicious traffic to protect our customers.
Disney Interactive is painfully aware that games of films have a reputation for being about as desirable as swine flu, and has long been speaking of addressing that situation (as it would, given that it's a film company).Results have been mixed, but developer Eurocom has done a refreshingly good job with G-Force. Sensibly, this is an action-platform effort in which you play Darwin, the most gung-ho of the anthropomorphised guinea-pig team, who is armed with an arsenal of gadgetry including a jet-pack, an electric whip, various guns, a scanner and a grapple – plus his sidekick Mooch, a fly who can temporarily slow down time, emit an electromagnetic pulse and carry small objects.At first, G-Force seems laughably simple, but the graphics and the inherent cuteness of controlling the James Bond of the guinea-pig world, combined with some great animation, keep you interested. But as the difficulty ramps up (perhaps difficulty is a misnomer, as G-Force is very much a kids' game) the puzzles get more inventive. You often have to use Mooch to access seemingly closed-off areas (he can take out the satellite dishes that set up force-fields), and sometimes even have to make Darwin run inside wheels to move mechanisms.The enemies, too, are great: household objects turned deadly by the evil company, Saberling, that made them. Paper-shredders, for example, can only be disposed of by tricking a Saberling security laser into targeting them. Clock-radios turn into hovering, heavily armed jellyfish. And you must lob bombs into microwaves when they briefly open their doors. Eurocom even manages to make a puzzle out of a sequence in which a washing-machine is built around Darwin.The game's gentle humour is spot-on. As exemplified by occasional driving sequences in which you pilot one of those hamster-balls – armed, of course. One heavily touted aspect that doesn't work at all, though, is the ability, like the film, to view it in 3D. The game comes with the old red and blue glasses and, while these do provide a modicum of depth-illusion, they also absolutely wreck its colours, rendering it considerably harder to play. 3D is coming to games, but not with such antiquated technology. Luckily, it's turned off by default. G-Force is far from a standard item of movie merchandising. It's well-thought-out, impressively constructed and will keep kids who are fans of the movie enraptured for ages.
Epic's Gears of War 2 was a deserved hit for Microsoft when released less than a year ago, thanks to impressive Unreal 3 graphics, absorbing storyline and co-op oriented gameplay. Since then there's already been a steady stream of downloadable content; from extra weapons to the Flashback, Combustible and Snowblind map-packs.Now there are two new downloads available on Xbox Live; Dark Corners and All Fronts, the latter being a 1600 MS Point compendium of every update so far. Naturally, if you've already downloaded these, the former, at 1200 points, is the one to go for. Dark Corners features seven new multiplayer maps and a single-player campaign called Road to Ruin, making it the most rounded add-on to date but obviously nothing that changes the gameplay, engine or scope of the original. Road to Ruin may be new to most players but it is, in fact, a polished version of a mission that was cut from the original release and, once you get into it, you can perhaps understand why.Featuring a maximum 90 minutes of gameplay taking your two heroes to the Locust homeworld, it follows the usual Locust-level pattern of large areas swarming with enemies and a lever or switch near the end that must be flicked to open the next one. Epic has been making much of the fact that you can play it in two ways, gung-ho or stealth, rewarding you with extra achievements for playing it twice. However, given the layout, the stealth option of sneaking around without firing soon feels laborious. It does, however, look great and is most&nbsp;rewarding if you play with a friend, all guns blazing as you dispatch a steady stream of Locust enemies; from foot soldiers to Wretches, Bloodmounts and a final Brumak.The multiplayer maps are a bit more interesting, although having downloaded Dark Corners before the masses it was hard to tell how they would stand up to the rigours of real players. Nevertheless, with a good mix of terrains, from the barren Nowhere to the sniper-heaven of War Machine, each of the new levels rewards judicious use of different firepower, with the Longshot and Boomshot proving particularly useful.All in all, Dark Corners has a bit for everyone. Fans will be reminded why they loved it in the first place but, given GOW3 isn't due till next Christmas, it's barely more than a Milky Way between meals.
Who said 2D gaming was dead? Trine will appeal to retro gamers everywhere. For a start the setting is delightfully old-fashioned. There is no post-apocalyptic wasteland or brown sci-fi dystopia here. Trine is set in a dreamlike fantasy world, full of enchanted forests and fairy-tale cliche. And it looks beautiful.The basic gameplay is standard 2D platform – ie, work your way from left to right – but the meat of the action involves using the skills of your three characters to solve a variety of physics-based puzzles. These usually involve seesaws. The thief has a very handy grappling hook that allows you to leap over obstructions. The knight is, as you would imagine, the main offensive weapon. More interesting is the wizard who can create platforms in and move things around telekinetically. And yes, you've guessed it, flipping between the three – you control one character at a time – is key to solving the puzzles that bar your way.The puzzles are usually physics based – hinged ramps are particularly common early on – and are generally satisfying to solve. There is a decent amount of freedom to solve puzzles and quash assailants too. So while initially you may send in your knight to take down the enemies it soon becomes more effective – especially when dealing with ranged attacks – to use the wizard to conjure a foe-squashing block.Or you might decide to use your thief to rain in arrows from afar. The flexibility to experiment is apparent throughout and  makes Trine consistently entertaining. Unlike the similarly pretty platformer LittleBigPlanet the controls feel tight here, with relatively little float. Keyboard and mouse are perfectly acceptable, although a pad makes more sense later in the game as the puzzles get fiddlier, and is essential for multiplayer.This is offline which means getting two or three players crowding around the PC – another example of the pleasant Amiga-style nostalgia Trine engenders. There a few downsides. The combat becomes a bit of a chore later on, and distracts from the puzzling and sightseeing. Also the game is relatively short at around six-eight hours, which makes the price point feel high. Nevertheless, 2D platform games are practically extinct on all platforms, let alone the PC, and Trine is a gorgeous example of the genre.
There's something immensely appealing about a game that uses nothing more than a D-pad and a single button in 2009, so Namco's decision to remake its cheery platformer for the Wii is a welcome one.In its original PS1 incarnation, Klonoa was one of the first games to employ a 2.5D approach, using a 3D engine to display a linear path. It's strange to say it of a game over a decade old, but Klonoa's simplicity and fluidity feel like a breath of fresh air. Leaping from grassy platform to swinging rope bridge to crumbling rock against a Sega-blue sky is uncommon enough these days. But to do it with precise and responsive digital controls, and without having to realign a 3D camera or worry about whether the perspective is inhibiting your ability to judge whether or not you can leap that gap is a genuine pleasure.What differentiates Klonoa from the mighty Mario is his ability to grab enemies and use them as a weapon or to propel him into a double jump. While this single mechanic can't replicate the variety and subtlety of movement of Nintendo's mascot, it immediately distinguishes the game from the identikit platformers typified by Spyro that eroded so much of the genre's popularity. Pretty much every second of the game feels considered, and as you travel across the land banishing nightmares and fighting simple but rewarding bosses, you'll find yourself wearing a dopey grin.Unfortunately, Klonoa's simplicity also means that the grin won't last terribly long. Except for a couple of peculiar difficulty spikes, this is a short and not particularly challenging game. It also features a totally unneccessary story and some of the most irritating voice acting you'll find outside of Saturday morning children's television. It's a rare mis-step in an otherwise intelligent and worthy update. Still, this is the very definition of short and sweet, and in its commitment to linearity, exploring a simple game mechanic to its full extent, and its focus on control, it compares very favourably to the grey, bloated and needlessly complex epics that increasingly clutter up the shelves.If you're an older gamer craving a platforming fix or a parent looking for a genuinely child-friendly game of quality, I'd recommend Klonoa wholeheartedly.
This game is actually a remake of a remake, having made its second appearance on the Gamecube to some acclaim in 2002. It's also the second Resident Evil game to be transferred from the Gamecube to the Wii, although the effort that went into Resident Evil 4's rerelease is sadly nowhere to be seen here. The controls, graphics and even the original 4:3 screen ratio all remain identical to the version released seven years ago. Considering the Wii's inbuilt ability to play Gamecube games, it's difficult to fully recommend a purchase even at the reduced price this is being offered at.And yet … once you take the opportunity to sit down with the game and reacquaint yourself with its eccentric charms, it's almost impossible not to fall under its spell again. The tank-like controls do a very good job of ramping up the tension every time you encounter one of the many shambling inhabitants of that familiar mansion on the outskirts of Raccoon City. The stars of the show, though, are the prerendered backgrounds that still stand up beautifully today, evoking a sense of place that only a few recent games can rival.Just like old times, the game begins when your small STARS team is despatched to investigate rumours of disappearances in the local woods and takes you on a lonely journey through an old house sitting on top of an ugly secret. The story itself is pure hokum, but the sense of creeping dread Capcom manage to wring out of it is impressive. Of course there are still problems – being caught on the edge of two areas with very different camera angles is infuriating if you're under attack; the controls might be designed to be awkward, but that doesn't stop them inducing controller-throwing fits of rage, and the puzzles and attendant backtracking manage to be both silly and dull.But none of these irritations seem particularly serious when compared to Resident Evil 5's many and varied mis-steps. It's also impossible not to notice just how much more engaging and frightening this old warhorse is than its younger, high-definition brother. Even if you've played the game in each of its previous incarnations, it's still a powerfully eerie experience – its simpler mechanics and fixed cameras allowing the developer to ratchet up the tension with carefully-placed sound effects and visual sleight of hand.So if you missed out on Capcom's horror classic first time round, there's still more than enough quality here to warrant picking up a copy. The only question is whether or not you buy the Wii version or root around in a bargain bin for a second-hand Gamecube copy.
Even its author admits that a 20-page strategy paper for government departments on how to useTwittermight be regarded as "a bit of over the top" for a microblogging tool with a limit of 140 characters a message.Indeed,the 5,382-word official "template",which translates into 36,215 characters and spaces, would need roughly 259 separate tweets to put the word around Whitehall using Twitter.But its author, Neil Williams, who describes himself as head of corporate digital channels at Lord Mandelson's Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, admits that when he sat down to write a proper plan for his department's corporate Twitter account, "I was surprised by just how much there was to say ‑ and quite how worth saying it is."Whitehall's official use of Twitter was pioneered byDowning Street,the Foreign Officeand theCommunities and Local Government department.Their low-profile experiments have grown into a regular feature of their official digital output.Now Williams, a self-confessed web geek, has turned his template into an official Whitehall Twitter guide and posted it on the Cabinet Office's digital engagement blog.He suggests that nothing too onerous is involved. Each department's "digital media team" should only need to spend less than an hour a day running their Twitter streams. A quick discussion of potential tweets at the morning press cuttings meetings should be followed by emails to minister's private offices to gather more material, and  any incoming messages should be replied to.However, the idea of official government use of a  tool that provides a confidential and confessional glimpse into somebody's personal life and views appears at first sight to be something of an oxymoron.The official guide seems to acknowledge this when it recommends that exclusive content such as "insights from ministers" and "updates on their movements" in a light or humanised style will be needed for the Twitter stream beyond the "business as usual" content of daily press releases and announcements.It also concedes there is a problem with one of the basic Twitter features, the ability to "follow" any other users. It admits that if government departments start following individual users on Twitter uninvited, this may well be interpreted as "interfering 'Big Brother'-like behaviour".However, once anyone does follow a Whitehall Twitter stream it recommends they should automatically be "followed back" on the grounds that it is not only good etiquette, but could result in a poor Twitter reputation if not done ‑ and in extreme cases could lead to the account being suspended.In urging his fellow Whitehall civil servants to use Twitter, Williams sets out several grounds rules for the kind of content that needs to make it work:• Human: He warns that Twitter users can be hostile to the "over-use of automation" - such as RSS feeds – and to the regurgitation of press release headlines: "While corporate in message, the tone of our Twitter channel must therefore be informal spoken English, human-edited and for the most part written/paraphrased for the channel."• Frequent: a minimum of two and maximum of 10 tweets per working day, with a minimum gap of 30 minutes between tweets to avoid flooding followers' Twitter streams. (Not counting @replies or live coverage of a crisis/event.) Downing Street spends 20 minutes on its Twitter stream with two-three tweets a day plus a few replies, five-six tweets a day in total.• Timely: in keeping with the "zeitgeist" feel of Twitter, official tweets should be about issues of relevance today or events coming soon.• Credible: while tweets may occasionally be "fun", their relationship to departmental objectives must be defensible.Alongside the promised tweetable content of minsters' thoughts and reflections following key meetings and events is something rather more sinister sounding called "thought leadership". Also known as "linked blogging", the idea is that by highlighting relevant research, events, awards and other action elsewhere on the web, the department's Twitter feed gets a reputation as a reliable filter of high quality content.It even holds out the promise of "crisis content" in which the Twitter feed becomes a primary channel alongside the official website for up to the minute guidance and advice in the event of a major incident.Perhaps the biggest stumbling block is that in true Whitehall tradition everything that goes out has to be approved and cleared first. So news releases are to be cleared for use only if they have first been paraphrased for Twitter. All other tweets have to be cleared by staff at information officer grade in the digital media team and colleagues in ministers' private offices and communications units have to be consulted as well.The guidelines recommend that "light-touch controls" will also be needed to prevent "inappropriate content" being published in error such as embargoed news releases, information about the location of ministers that could put their security at risk, or other commercially or politically sensitive content. Steps are also to be taken to avoid hacking or vandalism of content.But it is perhaps the "tone of voice" that is most troubling about the idea of Whitehall twitter stream. "Though the account will be anonymous (ie, no named officials will be running it) it is helpful to define a hypothetical 'voice' so that tweets from multiple sources are presented in a consistent tone (including consistent use of pronouns)," recommends the official template."The department's Twitter voice will be that of the digital media team, positioning the channel as an extension of the main department website ‑ effectively an 'outpost' where new digital content is signposted throughout the day. This will be implicit, unless directly asked about by our followers," it advises.Williams, the author of this template, launched the first ever blog by a British cabinet minister. He admits he once ran a comedy website called idiotica.co.uk but the Cabinet Office confirm that his Twitter guidelines are genuine.
Like this - only bigger: Apple is expected to launch a tablet computer that functions like an iPod Touch but with a larger screenApple is about to launch a tablet computer that will be like an enlarged version of the iPhone and iPod Touch - not running the full Mac OS X operating system, but instead limited to running one application at a time - in part as a means of selling more music downloads, according toreportspostedin today's Financial Times.The screen is expected to be substantially larger than the existing 3.5 inches (8.9cm) diagonal viewing size of the iPod Touch and iPhone, so as to give users looking at their music library an experience closer to looking at 12" album sleeves from the recording industry's past, when music was recorded onto vinyl.There are no indications about the price or screen size of the machine. Apple is always extremely careful about preventing details of new products leaking out before their launch, and the limited information that has slipped out about this one - which has been rumoured, in some form or other, for years - will almost surely have come via its partners in the music business on the project.However there is also speculation that the new - and so far unnamed - tablet computer will contain ebook capabilities, and that book publishers have been talking to Apple about the reading capabilities of the new system, which would be an immediate rival to Amazon's Kindle. "It would be a colour, flat-panel TV to the old-fashioned, black and white TV of the Kindle," one publishing executive told the FT.The FT reports that the company, which just announced record financial results despite the economic downturn, is working to release the tablet-style machine in September along with new iPods.The device is expected to have Wi-Fi capabilities and to be able to download and stream music and run applications just like the iPod Touch.Mark Mulligan, vice-president and research director of consumer product strategy at Forrester Research, said: "the rumours around a tablet are pretty presistent building up to this. Everything strategically makes sense: the one thing that record labels are still unable to do is to get people to buy albums in sizeable numbers. The problem is that iTunes unbundles albums; to persuade people to buy bulk, they have to deliver added value."Some of the impetus for the new device is believed to have come from record companies which have seen their incomes plummet even when people buy content legally because far fewer now buy entire albums; Apple's iTunes Music Store, launched in 2003, allows people to download single tracks rather than buying the whole album at once - drastically cutting the income for the record company.The Apple tablet though would allow a bigger display perhaps including videos, photographs, sleeve notes and lyrics for a song or album.The FT reports that Apple has been working with EMI, Sony Music, Warner Music and Universal Music Group on a project codenamed "Cocktail" to produce new formats for music downloads that would enhance the standard download experience - which is usually limited to, at best, a video and PDF booklet as well as the music."It's not just a bunch of PDFs," one music executive told the FT. "There's real engagement with the ancillary stuff."Mulligan said: "If you've ever bought a digital booklet at iTunes, it's almost useless. It has to be much more than a booklet. iTunes is experimenting with bundling things together in 'Cocktail'. If the rumours substanstive, this is much more ambitious. You move away from albums as straitjacket and start developing bundles of content, videos, interviews, even live streams. The tablet is the perfect form factor perfect for that."Mulligan added: "if you watch video on an iPod or iPod Touch, it's still a small screen. But put it in a big tablet and bundle DVD-like content, and that is a form factor for this content."
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
I was off with a combination of swine flu (according to me) andman flu(according to my wife) last week so this weekend's gaming was fairly relaxed. Peggle played its usual role but most of my gaming time was spent on1 vs 100andTrine. The former is becoming an increasingly essential part of my weekend gaming even if glitches mean I rarely get to see or hear the live host. Anyone else having these problems?Trine is this week's review. The gorgeous 2D platformer on the PC has actually been out for about a month now but – like, sadly, so many PC games these days – it slipped through the cracks. Many of you will have already played and, I'm guessing, finished the game already. If not then it's well worth checking out, especially if you like a bit of an old-fashioned fantasy look to your gaming. For me Trine is the perfect rainy Sunday afternoon game.  Review should be up later today or tomorrow.Anyway, what have you been playing this weekend?
&bull; You may not have heard of Netflix - an American DVD rental company not unlike the UK's Lovefilm - but you might have heard of theirprize: the offer of $1m to anyone who couldsignificantly improve their recommendation algorithms. Three years of slaving away, and it looks like things are done: nothing's certain yet, but apparently international teamThe Ensemblehas done it.&bull; Less than two months after it went on sale, retailers have startedhalving the price of the Palm Pre, reportsPre Central. What does that mean for the UK launch, coming later this year?&bull; And another blow to the early social network Friends Reunited. We reported yesterday that the company - owned by struggling broadcaster ITV -could be ready to sell for $15m. That's a hefty climbdown from the £120m in cash ITV paid in 2005 - and other subsequent payments that took the price even higher.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
RIM, the Canadian technology firm behind the BlackBerry, will today unveil its latest attempt to get the mobile email device much-loved by corporate executives into the hands of the average punter with a new mass-market version of the phone.The BlackBerry Curve 8520 – previously codenamed Gemini – is expected to hit the UK next month with Vodafone understood to have signed up as one of the first networks to offer the handset.While it lacks 3G mobile broadband coverage the new phone is more rugged than previous BlackBerry devices as it has rubber edges, and anyone wanting fast connectivity can use the phone's  Wi-Fi mobile broadband capability.The biggest change compared with previous BlackBerry devices, however, is the phone's touch-sensitive trackpad, which replaces RIM's traditional trackball, so that users can navigate the phone's on-screen menus.It is expected to be free for customers signing up to a contract for about £25 a month, between £5 and £10 cheaper than existing BlackBerry deals. For pre-pay customers the device is likely to cost about £150, also cheaper than the current range of BlackBerry devices.RIM has been moving into the mass-market in response to the success of the iPhone and the host of new smartphones that the Apple device has spawned from rival manufacturers, including Samsung, HTC and Nokia.As part of its drive for mass-appeal RIM recently signed a massive marketing deal with U2. That tie-up was a coup not least because many in Silicon Valley had expected the Irish rock band to renew their previous corporate relationship with Apple, but Bono is also a partner in investment firm Elevation Partners, which has a stake in another rival smartphone maker, Palm.RIM produces roughly one in every five smartphones sold across the world but has been trying to raise its share of the mass-market. Last year, it released the BlackBerry Storm, its first touchscreen device, which was aimed squarely at consumers rather than business people. While it has sold relatively well, it was blasted by critics and a new version is expected later this year.But it will have some tough competition as O2 prepares to offer the Palm Pre in time for Christmas under an exclusive deal with the American manufacturer, and several mobile phone manufacturers will be launching devices based on Google's Android software platform. Sony Ericsson will be launching the Satio, which has a mammoth 12.1 megapixel camera and was unveiled earlier this year under the Idou codename.Apple, meanwhile, has done very well with the latest version of the iPhone, released in June, which has helped the company generate some of the best financial results in its history. Last week, the Californian technology group reported revenues for the three months to the end of June of $8.34bn – up almost 12% from the same time last year. That generated profits of $1.23bn, a 15% increase on this time in 2008, and a record amount for the company outside of the Christmas season.The success was achieved largely thanks to the launch of the new iPhone 3GS and renewed interest in the company's Macintosh computers. Sales of iPods were actually down year-on-year, although the company hinted that more models are on the way later this year.
VOLVO C30 1.6D Drive S&pound;15,745Miles per gallon: 64.2CO2 per KM: 115 GRAMSGood for: Cross windsBad for: Cross driversWhen applied to politicians, former boyfriends or treacherous footpaths, the adjective "slippery" is a word loaded with negative connotations. When used about a car, however, it is praise indeed. And Volvo's new C30 DRIVe is the slipperiest car in its class. It's the ultimate draught dodger! By "slipperiness" manufacturers mean the ability a car has to slide through the air.You might think there isn't much to a bit of air. But a wall of air presents a considerable obstacle to the forward movement of a car, and the faster you go the more force is required to break through that wall. Next time you are driving, put your hand out the window, palm facing forwards, and you'll soon see just how much backward force the wind creates. Now turn your hand palm down, fingers forward so you are cutting through the wind. If you want, you can now move your hand up and down like a dolphin... or maybe not. The point is that by increasing the aerodynamic shape of a car, makers can dramatically reduce the amount of energy wasted in forcing a vehicle through the air. Ergo, greater fuel economy, greater efficiency and fewer emissions. It's win, win, win.All manufacturers these days - naturally - are keen to offer a "green" range of cars within their traditional line-ups. Among others, we've seen the arrival of Bluemotion at VW, BlueEfficiency at Mercedes, Ecoflex at Vauxhall, Econetic at Ford and now DRIVe at Volvo. It's pronounced Drive-ee. The high-mileage, low-emissions formula is available across the entire Volvo range - from the small and trendy C30 to the luxury S80 saloon and even the rugged XC70. The eco-savings are achieved through a raft of tweaks and modifications. There's low-friction transmission oil, an air-deflector buried in the grille and body panels as smooth as Alberto Contador's legs. But the three most important changes are the use of underbody "aero panels" to create an almost flat underside for the air to pass below. In the bad old days, no one thought twice about the state of a car's bottom, as it was hidden from view. The second area of attention is the alloys, which sit flush to the tyre to create the minimum turbulence as the wind slips across the wheels. And they look pretty cool, too - large, spinning silver disks which glint like fish lures in the sun. Finally, the tyres themselves are made of a firmer compound and have a different groove pattern so they create less resistance as they roll across the tarmac. In the Volvo C30 this all adds up to an astoundingly low drag-coefficient of 0.28, which translates into 64.2 miles to a gallon of diesel, and baby's-breath emissions.Once you're inside, the car handles just like any other. The only reminder that you are driving a DRIVe being the catatonic fuel gauge and the strange sensation, when you coast endlessly to a stop, that you are gliding across ice. The ride is so silent and friction-free the car doesn't seem to slow down when you take your foot off the throttle. As Paul Simon said, you're just "slip slidin' away ... "martin.love@observer.co.uk
It's a confusing place, the world of TED. Not just because that for an event which prides itself on its cleverness, it has a name that makes it sound like some sort of football jock, but because, one minute you're listening to a talk about how an artificial brain is just 10 years off completion and the next you're thinking, oh look there's Cameron Diaz. And then, in an unscheduled departure from the timetable, Gordon Brown walks on to the stage.Even more confusingly, he receives not one standing ovation, but two! They cheer. They applaud. They, actually, whoop. But at TED, I discover, all things are possible - including a belief in an infinite number of parallel universes, in one of which Brown is the most popular man in Britain.Truly, anything is possible in the universe known as TED. You might see flatscreen TV with no wires, no plug, nothing - one of the first public demonstrations of wireless electricity by Eric Giler. Or a British inventor, Michael Pritchard, turning sewage water into drinking water with a simple plastic bottle which he claims could save two-and-a-half million children's lives a year. Or you could be queuing up to get into the talk on nuclear fusion (coming to a reactor near you by 2030, according to the British physicist Steven Cowley), and Meg Ryan will step on your toe.Strange and very confusing, then. Because TED isn't named after a US football jock, it actually stands for Technology, Entertainment &amp; Design, which was the meat of its business when it was set up, in California in 1984 - heady days which saw the unveiling of the first Macintosh computer. Now, however, it has a far wider, more implausible remit. It aims to bring together ideas that it hopes might just change the world. It's the kind of rampant hubristic ambition which is all very well in the Golden State, but this is Britain. We do not whoop. We do not holler - although, just possibly, we're starting to learn.Because TED came to Oxford last week in its new form, TEDGlobal, an event that will be held annually and costs $4,500 (&pound;2,700) just to attend; accommodation is extra. Even then you need to be invited, or put yourself through a rigorous application procedure, including an essay question, and a system of mysterious positive vetting all designed to ensure you are "curious, creative, playful and open-minded".Which sounds distinctly Orwellian. Or at least Freemasonish. Yet everybody who comes to TED loves TED. Apart from a lone British journalist, although even he admits on the last night that he might quite like it. Even a guerilla operation calling itself Bil - which complains that the "unwashed masses" are kept out through the exorbitant price, loves TED - so much so that it hosted its own fringe event, "an open, self-organising alternative to TED".Because what TED excels in is amazing ideas, brilliantly presented. And the selection process is all part of what has gone into making it into what has been called "the coolest conference on Earth" and "a Davos of the mind", although it has also been called "a cultish talking shop" - by the Times, last week - a fact which exercises the man who calls himself its "curator", Chris Anderson, and who at various points asks the audience if it's cultish enough for us. It is, actually. Because you do have to be inducted into the TED way of doing things, which someone describes to me as "the conversion process" - all talks are exactly 18 minutes long and there are never any questions from the floor. And it's all so intense - packed bursts of talks and ideas and strange synthy music from the likes of Imogen Heap for 10-12 hours most days. And that's before the parties begin.In 2005 I attended the TEDGlobal prototype which was fascinating but undeniably elitist. One year later, they put all the talks online and it has become a global phenomenon. More than 300,000 people a day watch a TED talk; a hundred million a year. Since February, the numbers have been doubling. Thousands now watch the entire conference on live-streaming. A brand new translation software has seen 150 volunteers translate 1,000 talks into 150 languages in just a couple of months. Ideas, it seems, are the new rock'n'roll. And TED is its Woodstock.What it's done, remarkably, is to turn nerdy, unknown academics into worldwide superstars. A Swedish professor of global health called Hans Rosling has become the Susan Boyle of the academic world. "How many people did he reach before?" asks Bruno Giussani, the European director of TED. "Maybe he had 150 students a year? Now he's reaching millions. It's transformed the nature and concept of what it is to be teacher."Anderson says it has taken them all by surprise. "We weren't sure the intensity of the live experience would translate to a four-inch screen, but it just took off and we realised we shouldn't be thinking of it as a conference any more. It was about ideas spreading. The real audience is online. It's changed everything."In 2005, I listened to speaker after speaker talk about the Creative Commons and how if you open something up to the masses they perform amazing, unprecedented feats. And, in just four years, it is what has happened to TED.Three months ago, it launched TEDx, self-organised TED events that use the talks as the basis for a live event, and now it's taken off in 300 cities, from Antananarivo in Madagascar to Kuala Lumpur, and even, later this summer Sheffield, Newcastle, Manchester, Liverpool and Leeds (tedxnorth.com). Anderson, an Englishman who made his fortune as a media entrepreneur, founding Future Publishing which at its peak owned 130 magazines and employed 1,500 people, says that he suspects it's that "something is missing from the media diet. Beyond  'if it bleeds, it leads', and celebrity tittle-tattle, people want to learn new things."It's true, it's addictive learning new things at TED. There's Garik Israelian, a spectroscopist who explains why he believes that we will find signs of extraterrestrial life within 10 years. Then there's Rebecca Saxe's remarkable talk on the RPTJ region of the brain which, if targeted with a magnetic pulse, can actually change people's moral judgments."Don't you have the Pentagon calling?" Anderson asks her."I do," she replies. "I just don't take their calls."Then there are the coffee breaks when you find yourself talking to someone such as Peter Vermeersch, a political science professor from Leuven in Belgium, who got 50 poets to rewrite the EU constitution in verse, Steve Truglia who is planning to parachute from outer space, or Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, or one of the TED Fellows, a group of extraordinary young people from around the world who are sponsored to attend including Frederick Balagadde from Uganda who has invented a micro-fluidic chip which could  bring HIV diagnostics down from $65 to $10.But actually, the celebrity tittle tattle's not bad either. Jonathan from the BBC says he saw a woman walking down the street "and of course I'd have had absolutely no idea who she was except she was wearing a great big name tag on her chest which said: CAMERON DIAZ."It's no wonder the celebs love it. They are the least interesting people in the audience. I completely fail to spot the fact that I've been sitting next to two supermodels (Petra Nemcova and Karolina Kurkova). And although there's a frisson when Oxford physicist David Deutsch walks into the room, Meg Ryan can hang out in Costa Coffee completely unmolested. There's probably nowhere else on Earth that's quite as levelling as being a celeb at TED. Even in prison, Paris Hilton managed to upgrade to an executive cell; at TED, if you register late you're going to be staying in a college room in Keble even if you're the head of a charitable foundation and married to a multi-billionaire hedge-fund manager, as happened to one woman I chat to."I had to carry my suitcase up two flights of stairs!" she says. "I thought I was going to die!"The competition among speakers is so high that even the British celebs with vaguely intellectual credentials don't cut it at TED. Alain de Botton pulls it off, but Stephen Fry just hasn't prepared. At TED it's not just about what you say, but how you communicate it to the audience, and preparation is key."It's too short for an academic to do their standard 45-minute presentation, and too long to improvise. You have to prepare and have to take a fresh approach," says Giussani. "It really puts pressure on them."And it works. Not just in the room, but out in the big wide world. The very first person I meet at TED, beaming like a very small child who has just been given a very large ice-cream, is a firefighter from Sacramento called David Dolson IV. He wants to set up an international burns camp sharing knowledge about best practice in burn treatment and has watched every single TED talk online."My buddy introduced me to them and you watch one and it's a domino effect, you want to watch them all. And so I did. And it just really inspired me to want to do something, you know?"I do know. Because it's what everybody says all of the time. David paid more than $6,000 to come to TED out of his own pocket - "and we're some of the lowest-paid firefighters in the country" - but he's loving it. So is Maria Popova, a Bulgarian blogger, and a huge TED fan ("Really - they could cut off my left leg and I'd still love it") who raised the money to come via her followers on Twitter in just six days.James Purnell, who resigned from the cabinet last month turns up on a day-pass on Thursday. He says he has downloaded dozens of the talks on to his iPhone "and I'm probably even going to pay with my own money to come back next year". An MP! Paying for something! It's nothing short of a revolution.Anderson is always saying that TED is about the exchange of ideas. Ideas Worth Sharing. And if Hollywood stars love TED, then TED returns the favour. The production values are impossibly high. Vast amounts are spent getting it right and the programming shows a Robert McKee-like grasp of plot, triumph over adversity being the Tedster's favourite.Elaine Morgan, now almost 90, gives a gripping account of her life-long quest to prove that her theory that humans are descended from an aquatic ape. She has been dismissed as a nutcase for years, but both David Attenborough and Daniel Dennett have recently come around. Most movingly of all, however, is Emmanuel Jal, a former child soldier who was smuggled out of Sudan by a British aid worker, Emma McCune, and who is now a rapper. He sings a song called "What would I be if Emma McCune never rescued me?" and it's impossibly emotional. Hardened CEOs break down and weep; a TED lunch half an hour later immediately votes to give him &euro;10,000 (&pound;8,600).But then there's a Dragon's Den element to TED. The TED Prize, for starters, which awards $100,000 to three people every year to carry out "a wish". And I'm chatting to Giussani, when Pritchard, the water purifying man, rushes up to him."Thank you so much, Bruno! There was me saying, no, I've never heard of TED, I haven't got time, well, humble pie all over my face. It's been absolutely amazing."He had no idea what TED was, he says, "and then I looked online and saw Bill Gates and Bill Clinton and thought, bloody hell. And I practised and I practised and I practised and now I've got major foundations coming up to me and saying they think it's fantastic".When I speak to Elaine Morgan, she says in a cracked voice: "I've been struggling to get this idea across my entire life, and then to have this reaction! Well, it's amazing."It is, and it's life-changing not just for Emmanuel Jal, who might finally get the money for the school he wants to build in Sudan, but for those who watch it too. Even Carole Stone, the queen of networkers ("I have 40,000 people in my database"), tells me she has decided to change her life: "I've got to do something! I thought it was enough to put people together. But it's not!"Then there's Andy Hobsbawm, who was my TED pal in 2005 and shared my delighted non-comprehension of a David Deutsch talk. I went home; he set up a non-profit foundation, Do The Green Thing.  "I had a TED epiphany," he says. "I just heard all these speakers talking about climate change and I thought what can I do?"Jesus, Andy, I say. I've managed to go to the pub a couple of times. But that's ideas for you. You never know where they might land. And at TED they're gushing from the 50 speakers and the 700 audience members, and from there, out on to the internet, and off to everywhere else, landing where they land.Most viewedAmong Ted's "most favourite" talks:Ted 2006:Sir Ken Robinson makes a case for creating an education system that nurtures creativity and champions a radical rethink of our school systems.www.ted.com/talks/ken_robinson_says_schools_kill_creativity.htmlTed 2008:Neuroscientist Jill Bolte Taylor got a research opportunity few would wish for: she had a massive stroke and watched as her brain functions - motion, speech, self-awareness - shut down one by one.www.ted.com/talks/jill_bolte_taylor_s_powerful_stroke_of_insight.htmlTed 2006:A Swedish professor of global health, Hans Rosling, debunks myths about the "developing world", a talk that culminates in him swallowing a sword.www.ted.com/talks/hans_rosling_shows_the_best_stats_you_ve_ever_seen.htmlA brief historyTED is owned by a non-profit foundation and devoted to "ideas worth spreading". It now includes science, culture and development. At its main conference in California, speakers have included Bill Clinton, Bill Gates, and Google founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page. TedGlobal will be held annually in Oxford, and the talks posted online atted.com.What they said in Oxford• "We're going to build a realistic model of the human brain within the next 10 years ... and if we build it right, it will speak."Henry Markram, director of the Centre of Neuroscience and Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland• "Spectroscopy can change this world. In 15 to 20 years we will discover a spectrum like ours and an Earth-like planet."Garik Israelian, an astronomer at the Instituto de Astrof&iacute;sica de Canarias• "Batteries suck! 40 billion disposable batteries are being thrown away each year."Eric Giler, CEO WiTricity, who demonstrated a TV powered by wireless electricity.• "Eighty per cent of the global trade in food is controlled by just five corporations."Carolyn Steel, architect and author of The Hungry City• "Ipod liberalism" doesn't exist. "There's an assumption that if you give people enough connectivity and enough devices, democracy will inevitably follow. It doesn't."Evgeny Morozov, fellow of the Open Society Institute, New York, originally from Belarus.• "The World Health Organization estimates between 150 million and one billion people would see their lives change if they had glasses."Joshua Silver, professor of physics of Oxford University, and inventor of self-adjusting glasses that require no optometrist.• "People say, 'I like the theory but I think it's wrong because everyone I talk to says it's wrong and they can't all be wrong.' Well, yes they can!"Elaine Morgan, author of The Aquatic Ape• "The next time you see someone driving a Ferrari, don't think they are greedy, think they are vulnerable and in need of love."Alain de Botton
The latest twist in Microsoft's ongoing battle with European regulators? The humble tick box.In an attempt to forge a peace deal between the US software giant and Europe's competition watchdogs, Microsoft has put forward a way to offer computer users web browsers other than its Internet Explorer.Under the new plan, users starting up a Windows PC for the first time would get the option to download one of a number of web browsers. By ticking a box on a "ballot screen", they would have the chance to opt for rival browsers such as Firefox or Safari – or stick with the Microsoft default.The European Commission said it "welcomed" the decision, but was still considering whether it would bring to an end the drawn-out conflict over what it has called Microsoft's "distorting" and "detrimental" decision to bundle IE with Windows."The European Commission can confirm that Microsoft has proposed a consumer ballot screen as a solution to the pending antitrust case," it saidin a statement.Whether or not it achieves the desired affect, the move is intended to level the playing field between Microsoft's Internet Explorer and other browsers like Mozilla's Firefox, Apple's Safari and Google's Chrome.The case itself came as a result of thecomplaint made in 2007 by Norwegian browser firm Opera, which claimed that Microsoft's decision to incorporate its own web browser hurt its competitors. Earlier this year the commission decidedthat the bundling was anti-competitiveand asked for Microsoft to propose legal alternatives to remedy the situation.Microsoft had previously offered a straightforward remedy of releasing a new version of Windows for the European market that had IE stripped out – leaving PC manufacturers to make the decision of which browser to install by default. In reality, though, that workaround would have barely changed the status quo and did not satisfy the EU.The current proposal could prove pyrrhic victory, however. Microsoft has indicated that under its new scheme Internet Explorer would remain the default browser – and it remains unclear how many users would choose to switch away when faced with a choice of more than a dozen rival programs.But after stringing out the negotiations for several months, the company now appears keen to come to an accord."We believe that if ultimately accepted, this proposal will fully address the European competition law issues relating to the inclusion of Internet Explorer in Windows and interoperability with our high-volume products," said the company's genera counsel, Brad Smith. "This would mark a big step forward in addressing a decade of legal issues and would be good news for European consumers and our partners in the industry."Part of the proposals could be motivated by pressure on Microsoft's financial results. Although Bill Gates famously said that his company would not change how it operated during the height of Microsoft's antitrust case with the US government, the company has drawn fines of more than £1.5bn from European regulators in the past four years.Allied to slowing growth – itannounced its second-ever drop in quarterly profits yesterday- the company could see a deal with the EU as a way to avoid another fine or the cost of producing a new version of Windows.
Dominic Wilcox is an artist/designer/thinker-upper who has been commissioned by the likes of Nike and Esquire to come up with cool stuff. An ideas man who says he behaved "as normal for approximately 18 years", Wilcox houses his uncommissioned thought bubbles and inventions on this blog. Among them are biscuits with handles for easier dunking, giant frisbees as a new form of human transportation, and the best argument for genetically modified food yet made in the form of long, flat-bottomed eggs that dispense with the need of egg-cups. Not so pleasant for the chicken, though.
Aliens are invading again and, as usual, nobody seems to be doing anything about it, leaving you, some guns and miles and miles of dreary grey corridors as the only things standing between Earth and this month's would-be malefactors.The Conduit's dubious points of difference are the ASE, a torch you shine at walls and fixtures to reveal secrets, and the fact that its movement and aiming controls are surprisingly easy to get the hang of. It looks terrible, with rooms and connecting corridors merging into a single muddy whole as you battle the aptly named Drudge. The online modes work well, although if you've ever played Halo, Modern Warfare or Gears Of War it will all be a bitter disappointment. There aren't many first-person shooting games on the Wii and, in fairness, with the exception of the Metroid series, this is probably the least awful.
Beck's been on the net so long, he may have invented it. Currently between albums, the nerd-pop pioneer's been directing his powers to his official website, where many interesting things are happening. One is a project to re-record a Velvet Underground album in sequence with a series of guest musicians that takes the form of limited-edition singles and videos. Also of note are several mixtapes, an acoustic version of his last album Modern Guilt and a blog series he calls Irrelevant Topics in which Beck converses with artists and musicians "without promotional pretext". The first of which is a pleasant ramble with the Tom Waits in which the pair discuss homemade submarines, hot dogs and wearing the "wrong socks".
Arriving with the Motion Plus, which you clip on to the bottom of your Wii remote to help it measure movement more accurately, Wii Sports Resort is Nintendo's latest demonstration of how to make games that welcome everyone. From your first freefall descent on to the aptly named Wuhu Island, Nintendo's gentle magic is evident through interactions that are instantly intuitive and occasionally more subtle than they first appear. Sword fighting, skydiving, basketball, table tennis, archery and a range of others get the Wii treatment along with mild refreshes of old favourites golf and bowling. The result is a delicious pick and mix of family-friendly entertainment with the odd duffer (Frisbee and canoeing, for shame) to remind you that nobody's perfect. Like predecessor Wii Sports, this is at its best when played with friends and fails to lend itself to the traditional weekend-eating games marathon.
Internet users in Hull risk having their connection cut if they illegally share files, under a controversial "three strikes and out policy" operated by the only internet service provider in the area.Karoo, the north-eastern city's only ISP, serving 90,000 customers, has in recent years, with little national publicity, been cutting users' internet connection immediately and without warning if they were found to be in breach of copyright.It was forced to relax its stance  after growing criticism from digital rights groups and customers.Karoo will now provide customers with three written warnings before temporarily suspending the internet connections of illegal filesharers, after the company admitted it was "exceeding the expectations of copyright owners" .The policy remains controversial and significantly harsher than other UK ISP providers, which have been reluctant to crack down on illegal filesharers and only recently agreed to send warning letters to persistent filesharers.The recent Digital Britain report suggested other actions against illegal filesharers, such as having their internet connection slowed, but stopped a long way short of threatening to disconnect online illegal filesharers.Yesterday the company said it had always taken a firm line on the "alleged abuse" of its internet connections and had a duty to act if it was informed by record labels, or the police about infringing copyright.Nick Thompson, director of consumer and publishing services at Karoo, said it would in future issue three written warning before cutting its customers internet connection. "It is evident that we have been exceeding the expectations of copyright owners, the media and internet users," he said. "So, we have changed our policy to move in more line with the industry standard approach, whilst still taking the issues of copyright infringement and illegal internet activity seriously."Previously, for a number of years customers were sent a letter requiring them to accept culpability and to promise not to share files again. The first reconnection was free, but if users continued to fileshare they had to pay £30 for each subsequent reinstallation.Karoo's policy caused uproar among its clients, who complained that they could not vote with their feet by choosing another internet service provider.Steve Thornhill, from west Hull, said he had been wrongfully cut off for "illegally downloading" because his computer had been infected by a virus."I am absolutely furious about this ... There is no warning, they just sever your connection, which is unacceptable in my view," he wrote on the This is Hull and East Riding website.Other comments suggest that cutting people's internet connections may not prevent more tech-savvy users from illegally downloading. One anonymous user wrote: "I got cut off last year twice or downloading films, games and music through bit-torrents, what did I do? Switched to rapidshare! Come on kar-roo, try harder, I like a challenge."Digital rights campaign organisation, The Open Rights Group, criticised the company's decision to continue disconnecting its customers.Executive director Jim Killock said: "Karoo's policy still has major concerns around presuming guilt, allowing innocent people to clear their name, and allowing due process to take place. They are still threatening to cut users from the internet without testing the evidence. This is especially concerning given their monopoly position."He added: "Even prisoners get to use the internet. For many people, web access is not optional in the modern world."
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?The piece of technology I use the most is my cameraphone – it's aSamsung Pixon, and it's brilliant. The reason I got it is because I'm so envious of people taking photos and I never take my camera anywhere, so I got a cameraphone. The camera on it is fantastic – it's 8 megapixels, which is better than most digital cameras.When was the last time you used it, and what for?To take some photos of my friend's two-year-old child. It was her second birthday party, so there were lots of balloons and ponies floating round.What additional features would you add if you could?I'm not sure how this would go with memory, but when taking a photo, there is a time lag between pressing the button and the photo being taken. It also doesn't cope very well with night-time shots – the flash isn't brilliant. The daytime shots are fantastic, though.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years?No, I don't – this particular model will be, but the cameraphone won't.What always frustrates you about technology in general?That everything has a built-in obsolesence, to the point where I boycott stuff like this because it drives me mental. I bought an electric toothbrush where, about a week after the guarantee ran out, the battery just stopped working – the battery is not replaceable, so you have to buy a whole new product. It's the same with the iPod.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?My electric hand sander – because it's horrible, it vibrates right through you and produces so much dust and it doesn't really do a good job.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?To not be scared of it – to kind of tame the beast.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a total nerd, I think.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my Mac. It's one of the older models of iBook, I got it second-hand. The reason I like it is that I've started doing a bit of editing on it with Final Cut Pro, and it's absolutely amazing.Mac or PC, and why?Mac all the way, but I want to keep it quiet because if more people start using Macs there will be more viruses made for them. I think they're better because it's always about the person using it, not the computer.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I buy DVDs – I've never downloaded one. My last purchase was DJ Jean's The Launch, which I downloaded for a party I was having. It was massive when I was 17.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?A bad idea, because if I was to have a butler I'd want to ask him for his personal opinion on something.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I would like a flatscreen telly, just because my TV at the moment is shit.•James Anthony Pearsonstars in New Town Killers, out now on DVD
Terrorists groups could soon use the internet to help set off a devastating nuclear attack, according to new research.The claims come in a study commissioned by the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament (ICNND), which suggests that under the right circumstances, terrorists could break into computer systems and launch an attack on a nuclear state – triggering a catastrophic chain of events that would have a global impact.Without better protection of computer and information systems, the paper suggests, governments around the world are leaving open the possibility that a well-coordinated cyberwar could quickly elevate to nuclear levels.In fact, says the study, "this may be an easier alternative for terrorist groups than building or acquiring a nuclear weapon or dirty bomb themselves".Though the paper admits that the media and entertainment industries often confuse and exaggerate the risk of cyberterrorism, it also outlines a number of potential threats and situations in which dedicated hackers could use information warfare techniques to make a nuclear attack more likely.While the possibility of a radical group gaining access to actual launch systems is remote, the study suggests that hackers could focus on feeding in false information further down the chain – or spreading fake information to officials in a carefully orchestrated strike."Despite claims that nuclear launch orders can only come from the highest authorities, numerous examples point towards an ability to sidestep the chain of command and insert orders at lower levels," said Jason Fritz, the author of the paper. "Cyber-terrorists could also provoke a nuclear launch by spoofing early warning and identification systems or by degrading communications networks."Since these systems are not as well-protected as those used to launch an attack, they may prove more vulnerable to attackers who wish to tempt another nation into a nuclear response.Governments around the world have recently stepped up their commitment to increasing cyber-defence, after a number of high-profile incidents in which hackers launched attacks on foreign nations. Recent online conflicts, as well as reported attacks on government computer systems in the US, UK and elsewhere have increased the stakes.In Britain, Gordon Brownrecently announced plans to step up online intelligence operations– while in the US, President Obama has said he intends to appoint a cyber-security tsarto ensure that protecting America's computer systems "will be a national security priority"."Cyberspace is real, and so is the risk that comes with it," he said in May, adding that online attacks are "one of the most serious economic and national security challenges we face".However, the study suggests that although governments are increasingly aware of the threat of cyberwar with other nations, action to bolster those defences does not alleviate the threat of a rogue group that circumvented the expected strategies for online warfare."Just as the 9/11 attacks were an unprecedented attack with unconventional weapons, so too could a major cyber attack," it says.
Salford: A vibrant, emerging media hub soon to be home to the hundreds of BBC staff, production houses, digital startups and buzzing businesses?That's certainly the aspiring image the city's movers and shakers are keen to present to the world, so when theSmart Cities Futures conferencechose to display a revolving slideshow backdrop of boarded-up back-to-back terraces and burnt-out sites, the home audience soon became restless."The best image up there was the one showing the motorway getting out of here," interjected one unhappy attendee at yesterday's event.With this being a participative conference involving webchats and a live Twitter stream projected into the auditorium at The Lowry, it wasn't long before the Twitterati were all a-flutter, leaving organiser @katzy (Katz Kiely MD of Just-b Productions) to tweet an 140-character explanation:The images on the screen are pics from a workshop for young people who were asked to capture their vision of their city.And later:Also re the images – if this is how young people see their city how can we work together to make sure they feel more included?A tall order perhaps, but after debates where the words "self-esteem" and "community engagement" figured highly, delegates were split into teams to take part in workshops which later pitched projects to the audience.Perhaps understandably given the earlier debates, a scheme to push more positive views of the city won by securing the most audience votes and cash-backing.The winning initiative, Positive Image Bank, will soon be creating and distributing pictures, videos and other media which seek to show happiness, joy and other positive experiences from the people of Salford.It will be a way of countering the group's own experiences of feeling that Greater Manchester has suffered years of being portrayed as workshy, boring and old fashioned.The initiative will seek to train local people in media creation and how to upload the material online – skills about to be much in demand as the MediaCity development hurtles towards its 2011 completion date.Other schemes put forward included a community gardening project to grow fruit, veg and flowers, a community bond-style financing scheme to help young people start businesses and an "in bloom" initiative where students' community involvement would contribute to their academic achievements.* More aboutSmart City Futuresat the website.
Forget the travails of technology giants like Amazon, Microsoft and Apple: the biggest news on the internet this week has been bubbling somewhere under the Indian Ocean. After years of development,a new 10,000 mile internet pipeline is bringing broadband to east Africa.Finally we can update ourlovely map of the internet's web of undersea cables.To say this moment has been long-awaited by netizens in Africa is an understatement: it's sending the continent into a frenzy. But what's the impact actually going to be?To find out, I askedErik Hersman, the author of theAfrigadget blogand founder of crisis information service Ushahidi - and as good as expert on the internet in east Africa as you're likely to find."First, it will drive down business costs for organisations," he told me by email. "I'm hearing of business high-speed internet costs dropping from $5000 per month to around $500-1000 now. That's pretty significant in and of itself.""Second, hosting can now feasibly be done in east Africa, instead of having to host all of the apps and services on European or American servers."What about the knock-on effect on mobile development? We've heard a lot about successful mobile innovation in Kenya and other countries – payment system Mpesais the most famous example, but there are others too. Would a sudden boost for internet service mean people turned away from mobile development? Hersman didn't think so."The main reasons for that are that it's lack of regulation that allows services like Mpesa to come into being," he said. "But, beyond that, it's also about what most consumers have. Yes, due to costs dropping we'll see more people getting access to the internet. However, the devices that people have access to on the personal level are still rudimentary (Nokia 1100-type) mobile phones.  It's not like those are going to all be thrown out and everyone upgrade to data phones all of the sudden. So, entrepreneurs will continue to build apps for those uses first."He also noted that the Seacom installation hasn't been without controversy: nobody is yet clear whether increased access will drive down prices for ordinary people, and the company isn't releasing the names of cooperating ISPs – much to the chagrin of web-heads."That lack of transparency is causing a bit of a problem," he said.  "Kenyans tend to be great conspiracy theorists, so whispers of collusion and price fixing are already being bandied about."
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Birth, death and Battlefield 1943 all got a look-in this week, as Apic gathered the major Chatterbox thoughts and observations into something closely resembling sense. Even fashion made a brief appearance, before skulking off to more glamorous areas of the Guardian online empire. And justwaswas the best GTA game of all time? You'll find out in here... kind of...We're still desperate for photos to lead the 'Best of' section. This week's entry is from Dominic O'Rourke who insists, "this plays on the meme of fish curry on the blog - not really game related, but chatterbox related!"Come on all, the next time you pass a game advert, game shop, or game event, take a snap and send it in. It needs to be in landscape format and will need to be at least 460x276 pixels in size.Now, onto this wek's round-up courtesy of Apic...July 11-17 by ApicThe weekend gone, Monday rolled round again with all the inevitability of a PSN update from HiddenAway. And as the blogsters began to surface through the fug, some took umbrage with P-K1ng and his frankly objectionable proclamation of it being a glorious day. It's Monday!Of particular note this week were the bittersweet returns from (separate - apparently) honeymoons of makar27 and Sorbicol. The latter faced 600 work emails upon his arrival at work, but bravely decided to ignore them and join us on the Box instead. Following this shocking display of work-shyness, he also managed to be two hours late for work on Wednesday. Ahh, the life of the newly-wed.Fortunately for both of them, Umboros showed that marriage doesn't have to mean that your gaming days are over. Despite it being his anniversary, he still managed to get in some SF4 action whilst his M&amp;S meal for two simmered in the oven. And they say romance is dead. Life is tougher in the BarryEans household - he admitted that he wouldn't be joining any online games of Grand Slam Tennis because his wedding anniversary was on Thursday and he, "won't remain married for very long if [he ends] the celebrations early to play tennis online". Well, as the umpire says, "new balls please!"...Unusually for GamesBlog, this week saw plenty of talk about games, with many bloggers having spent their weekends storming beaches in the newly released Battlefield 1943. Despite there being a few grievances (the squad creation system, the unflyable planes and the voice comms), the overall reception has been positive. Chubster was his usual hyperbolic self, proclaiming, "Wake Island - Best game map ever? One of, surely?"Wrong. That award goes to CS_Assault. And in the fine tradition of the Graun's challenging, opinionated journalism, we had this from Zelos:"I just tried the BF1943 demo. It's not bad but they really have chosen the worst maps from BF1942..."After the dust had settled on the sands of Iwo Jima, unflyable planes, undrivable tanks and unwieldy sniper rifles scattered across the virtual world, occasional poster Pokemon invited us all to comment on which games we thought were the hardest we'd played. To get us started, he graciously revealed that he'd been unable to unlockanyachievements on Metal Slug 3.Stand out suggestions seemed to be Gitaroo Man, the original Discworld game, Ultimate Ghosts 'n Goblins, almost anything on the Spectrum and Rhythm Tendoku on Gameboy Advance, "because it's in Japanese and trying to work out what to do is frankly impossible at times". CommodoreSchmidlapp there with that pearl of wisdom.Unfortunately the camaraderie was short-lived. A throwaway comment from PirateCaptain, proclaiming that he enjoyed the dialogue of the GTA games, led into a full-blown 'discussion' about which GTA was the best, why IV was crap, why VC was the pinnacle because of the music and the styling, no, why SA was the best because it had a mountain, no, why IV wasn't that bad after all actually… And I'll leave it there, except to say… will you be buying GTA V?A few bloggers finally caught up with the times and saw Transformers 2 over the weekend (McBegbie supplying the succinct but arguably accurate appraisal, "Michael Bay films should be avoided at all costs"). Yet, generally, Chatterbox reactions have been positive. Giant Transforming Robots… you can't really go wrong, can you? Later, Brüno and the interminably long Harry Potter movies were also assessed; with the latter, the act of removing the Half Blood Prince storyline from a film called Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince seemed a little nonsensical to some.Games and films are all well and good, but less familiar territory for the 'box is the world of fashion. It may have been just the release of Brüno that spurred us on, but Lazybones felt he needed some advice on T-shirts, feeling less secure working them in his old age. Polo shirts, string vests and shirts (rejected for their need to be ironed) were all mooted, but CraggyIsland summed my thoughts up best with:"Is it really a good idea to be asking that question here? You're going to end up in the upper-body equivalent of the Chino pant."For those who don't like to rely on Hadley Freeman for their fashion advice, games T-shirts and band T-shirts (with tour dates) are big NOs in the GamesBlog fashion universe but a smart T-shirt and jeans can be enjoyed by a man of any age. Though if you're developing a middle-aged paunch you may want to go with dark fabrics and heavier grade cottons.Following on from the previous week's cheerful discussion about serious medical conditions, on Tuesday cameroon decided to give us all a scare by admitting to a DIY-based head trauma that he'd suffered the previous night and how he was still feeling 'doped up' that morning, a condition to which he is no stranger.Ever the concerned friends, numerous bloggers advised him to go see a doctor. All that is except onedaveofmany, who instead wondered how we'd actually know if something tragic befell any chatterboxer. One has to wonder if this hasn't happened already, with many already having disappeared without a trace. Surely all of them can't have succumbed to vigorous IT-based work policies? Numerous bloggers of old were then trotted out, along with spurious and possibly libelous suggestions for their demise. Luckily, Lazybones has a solution should he ever shuttle off this mortal coil without a computer and internet connection at hand to alert us all:"If I die I'm going to push my login details into someone's hand. Lazybones will live on..."...like a Chatterbox version of Ace Rimmer (without the catchphrase) or the Dalai Lama (without the Buddhism), as others saw fit to point out. Fortunately for us all, the doctor confirmed that cam's head trauma was nothing serious, so he used it as an excuse to avoid going to the gym instead. Still, it was a better excuse than missing it because of the two toasties he had for lunch on Wednesday.Thoughts of our own mortality turned into concerns about blog acquaintances struck down by the dreaded swine flu, with bosses, colleagues, colleagues' children/wives and other assorted tenuous relations having come down with the porcine equivalent of manflu. P-K1ng was seen to tempt Fate itself by asking for opinions on the Pepper Pig game for the DS, for his 'little un'. Fortunately one cannot catch diseases through a blog or, as, as Craggyisland pointed out, we would all have been joining Tony in his frequent courses of antibiotics last year. Painful peeing? Indeed.[By the way, the Pepper Pig game is okay - I actually reviewed it on here last year. It's all mini-game based, but there could be more of them, and there's hardly any Daddy Pig in there - a huge oversight. Keef]Quote of the Week"Childbirth - our last sprog born on our bed, I had his head in my hands at the delivery tunnel just before the paramedics arrived… Had to buy a new mattress the next day. Messy business..."Mollocate gives us the facts on home birth. We didn't want them.
&bull; After mixed responses toAmazon's Kindle book deletions last week, the company's boss Jeff Bezos stepped into the fray - by saying that the way the online retailer went about the affair was"stupid" and "thoughtless". Bad Bezos!&bull; With Palm's Pre due to head to Britain soon, the company's tit-for-tat war with Apple continues.AppleInsiderreports that Precan now synchronise with iTunes again, after Apple broke ita week or so ago. I can't see that it benefits Pre users to know that synchronisation will be borked every now and then, but it looks like Palm will keep cat and mousing it.&bull; Somethings for the weekend:Classic album covers recreated in Legoor get your game on with this addictiveBunni game. If that doesn't fill up half an hour on a Friday afternoon, I don't know what will.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Amazon boss Jeff Bezos has responded to concern over thecompany's decision to surreptitiously delete books bought by Kindle usersby saying that the move "stupid" and "thoughtless".In a statement on the company's website, Bezos added that the backlash against the remote removal of books by George Orwell was "wholly self-inflicted"."This is an apology for the way we previously handled illegally sold copies of 1984 and other novels on Kindle," he wrote on the company'sKindle forum pages. "Our 'solution' to the problem was stupid, thoughtless and painfully out of line with our principles. It is wholly self-inflicted and we deserve the criticism we've received."Though the company had a genuine reason for pulling copies of 1984 and Animal Farm– the publisher, MobileReference, did not have the rights to produce copies of Orwell's work – many customers were worried that Amazon used its access to their gadgets to simply delete the files in question.The company told customers after it had deleted the books, and refunded them for their purchases. However, many felt that it was the company's fault for allowing the illegal copies to be sold in the first place - and that erasing without consent was an invasion of their privacy.In addition, many experts voiced concerns that the episode could open the door to similar activities in the future – and even the possibility of changes being made in secret.Cindy Cohn of the Electronic Frontier Foundationtold the Guardianthat the prospect meant there was a lot of confusion between companies and the people who bought their services."It's creating a situation where people think they've purchased something – in the way you might purchase a pair of shoes, for example. But from the perspective of the seller, and often from the perspective of the law, it's quite a lot less."Bezos said that Amazon would use the experience to learn and pledged to change its ways in the future."We will use the scar tissue from this painful mistake to help make better decisions going forward, ones that match our mission," he said.Activists welcomed the apology, but Peter Brown, executive director of the Free Software Foundation, said more was at stake."Unfortunately this matter requires more than just changing internal policy. The real issue here is Amazon's use of DRM and proprietary software. They have unacceptable power over users, and actual respect necessitates more than an apology - it requires abandoning DRM and releasing the Kindle's software as free software."
Children playing computer games overnight at an internet café in Wuhan, China. Obviously, this is not really desirable. Or is it? Photograph: Can Canchu/GettySince we did so well last week with thequestion about Linux, let's move on to a slightly different one.It's summer. It's school holidays. The kids (aged between 4 and 11) are at home and they're bored. But here's the thing: when they play computer games - whether it's the Wii or Nintendo DS or Xbox 360 and PSP or whatever - they become completely obsessed. There's no world outside what's on the screen. And if you try to ration the time they can spend (say, "only until lunch") they spend all the time away from the screen moping like addicts looking for their hit. They become, in short, obsessive and dull, and that doesn't seem right during summer holidays.So the options are:(1) stop all access to computer games. None, nada, zip. Make them do something else;(2) limit access - allow, say, a couple of hours per day;(3) just let them play. What the hell. Who cares if all they see is computer pixels. Hell, if they go outside it might rain.OK: what's your pick, or advice, and why? Remember, these are young children we're talking of here, not your already-fried brain.Give us your interesting answers: we'll use some of them in print next week. So advise wisely.
Microsoft shocked investors yesterday by announcing another plunge in revenues and profits, sending the group's shares tumbling and leaving some analysts questioning the technology giant's prospects.In its latest quarterly financial results, the world's biggest software company announced revenues of $13.1bn, down from almost $16bn over the same period last year. Profits for the last three months fell 29% to $3.05bn, down from $4.3bn for the fourth quarter of 2008.While some of the drop could be attributed to customers waiting for the arrival of Windows 7 – due to go on sale this autumn – the company has also been struck by the tightening of the economy and a general slowdown in PC sales.Until the previous quarter, the company had never experienced negative growth since going public 23 years ago.The company's chief financial officer, Chris Liddell, said: "Our business continued to be negatively impact by weakness in the global PC and server markets. In light of that environment, it was an excellent achievement to deliver over $750m of operational savings."Microsoft said it had made the savings through streamlining operations and cutting thousands of jobs, but admitted that it had spent large amounts on legal costs and redundancy packages. Legal charges totalled $193m, while the company also counted $108m in impairments and $40m in additional severance charges.The results were lower than Wall Street analysts expected, with consensus guidance hovering at around revenues of $14.3bn – and shares dropped more than 7% in after-hours trading as a result."It's a real disappointment … a significant miss," said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities.Not everyone was depressed by the company's prospects, however. Katherine Egbert of Jefferies &amp; Co said that although results were "tepid" there were "some green shoots".Among those prospects is Windows 7, the latest version of the company's operating system. With PC sales underperforming, Microsoft is desperate for software to be a hit - particularly since the 2007 launch of its predecessor, Windows Vista, proved so difficult. That much-heralded product launch suffered problems, after customers discovered that many pieces of hardware would not work.
The jigsaw is finally complete. East Africa shed its tag as the only major inhabited coastline excluded from the global broadband map today when an undersea fibre-optic cable linking it to networks in Europe and India went live.The commissioning of the 10,625-mile Seacom cable, which will soon be followed by two other submarine cables, is expected to drastically lower the cost of high-speed internet services and telephone calls. The region is currently dependent on expensive and often unreliable satellite links, which has prevented the spread of internet access.The $600m (about £360m) Seacom cable, which is owned mainly by African investors, links South Africa, Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda and Mozambique with London, Marseille and Mumbai. A separate undersea cable, known as Teams, owned by the Kenyan government and local telecoms firms and linked to the United Arab Emirates, is expected to go live next month.In countries where much of the infrastructure has fallen into neglect since independence, the landing of the finger-thin fibre-optic cable has been hailed as a milestone. Aly-Khan Satchu, a financial analyst in Nairobi, compared its significance to the construction of the railway network in east Africa a century ago."With the arrival of mobile phone and now broadband internet, we are leaping from the medieval age connectivity-wise into the 21st century in a very short period of time. This represents an enormous economic boost and a political game changer given how information is now going to be spread."Local companies have been frantically laying down fibre-optic cable within and between cities in east Africa in anticipation of the undersea cables arriving, while internet providers have been slashing the cost of modems to try to sign up customers.Seacom, whose completion deadline was delayed by a month due to the threat posed by Somali pirates to its cable-laying ships, said its wholesale customers were now paying 90% to 95% less per megabit than before.Retail prices will also tumble, given the competition between the cable owners for customers and the vast oversupply of bandwidth. A third intercontinental cable, the Eastern Africa Submarine Cable System, which will connect 21 countries in the eastern half of Africa to the global network, is expected to go live next year in time for the football World Cup when internet and broadcast traffic from South Africa is expected to rise dramatically.The east African cables are among a string of projects across the globe to lay undersea cables, which use light signals to transmit data and carry more than 95% of voice and telephone traffic. One reason for the boom is the popularity of video download sites and services such as YouTube, which are causing worldwide bandwidth demand to double every 18 months. Another is the need for backup in case cables are accidentally severed, as occurred last year when a ship's anchor sliced two cables off Egypt, causing internet outages in the Middle East and India.In Kenya, the cheaper bandwidth is expected to boost the nascent call-centre and outsourcing industry.Internet service providers are hoping the growth in web usage can follow a similar path to that in the mobile phone sector, where the number of lines has grown from 15,000 to 17.4m – nearly one for every two Kenyans – in a decade. With laptops still too expensive for many people, it is expected that cheap, web-enabled phones will play a major role in spreading internet access.Landlocked countries such as Ethiopia and Rwanda will soon be connected to the new cable, Seacom said.Facts and figuresBesides slow speeds, the main barrier to internet access in east Africa up to now has been cost. Even after recent price wars in Kenya, the most competitive market in the region, a 3G connection with the market leading telecoms firm Safari.com costs £55 a month for 5MB of data. The International Financial Corporation, which is funding the Eassy undersea cable that it is due to be connected to east and southern Africa next year, estimated that its cable alone would help triple the number of internet subscribers and cut costs by two-thirds. Internet users should be able to access a range of content previously unavailable. The Seacom cable that went live today has a capacity of 1.28 terrabytes per second, enough to "open up the broadband tap" and enable people to watch on-demand movies, share music and videos, and view news programmes in real time, the company said.
Call it luck, chance or just a sign of the times – but the fate of British hi-tech companies at the moment seems to be up and down more often than West Bromwich Albion. For every ARM –boosted by iPhone sales, there's a host of companies struggling to make ends meet, and people losing their jobs.For a close-up view of the highs and lows, just take a look at the small electronic ink industry, where two British companies are currently looking at very disparate fortunes.Southampton's Polymer Vision, which had developedflexible e-ink screensthat garnered a rave reception earlier this year, hasgone into administration with the loss of 50 jobs.Meanwhile Plastic Logic, a company spun out from Cambridge University, has received a boost from a deal with US bookseller Barnes &amp; Noble, which hasannounced plans to start selling a rival to Amazon's Kindle(with wireless connectivity to be provided by telecoms giant AT&amp;T).Despite their similar offering, the two companies couldn't be further apart. Why? What is the difference?  And – if anything - what can British entrepreneurs learn from those who have gone before them?
In aBBC Newsstory and blog post,The Spinning of Spinvox, Rory Cellan-Jones has a great expose to the effect that the Spinvox service may not work entirely as suggested.Spinvox is, he says, "a great British technology success story, using brilliant voice-recognition software to decode your voicemail messages and turn them into text." However, he adds, it seems that story "doesn't really stand up, because most of the work is actually done in call centres dotted around the world."He does a test:It was suggested to me that if I recorded a message and then sent it five times in a row to my mobile, then a computer would provide the same result every time. Well my message was deliberately stumbling and full of quite difficult words - including my rather tricky name. But every version that came back to me in text form was radically different - and pretty inaccurate. So unless Spinvox is employing a whole lot of rather confused computers to listen and transcribe messages, it sounds like the job was being done by a variety of agents.This is significant because people who don't mind personal or sensitive messages being transcribed by a machine might have a different view if they expected it to be done by real people in South Africa or the Philippines. This also raises European Data Protection issues, as Rory rightly points out.But you have to wonder if Rory, who loves his gadgets, has actually tried using a PC-based voice-recognition system such as Dragon Naturally Speaking 10.To be frank, the idea that computers can accurately transcribe voice messages that real people -- who are far better at it -- frequently can't understand is a tad naïve. Speech-to-text can work pretty well if the system is trained for a highly-motivated speaker, who takes care to speak clearly. Having a specialist vocabulary (eg for dentists, surgeons, lawyers and similar groups) also helps a lot.Translating the garbled utterances of several million J Random Users is another matter. If that were not the case, the subtitling of live TV and the recording of public meetings and court hearings would be a massive problem solved.Of course, I am willing to believe that The Brain has "brilliant voice-recognition software" -- but only if I can see it working in real life. And if it's done over the phone, I can't.I'd be particularly impressed because if it works the way Rory used to think, Spinvox must have solved a problem that extremely talented researchers at Dragon, IBM, Philips and numerous universities have been grappling with for decades.And if Spinvox really has the technology, there are a lot more profitable uses for it in the transcription market. This is particularly true in the medical industries where people are using both hands for something else -- performing an operation, or an autopsy -- and using a keyboard is out of the question.
KIRO 7 Eyewitness Newsin the US has run a story revealing that "an alarming number of Apple brand iPod MP3 players have suddenly burst into flames and smoke, injuring people and damaging property". The station says:It took more than 7-months for KIRO 7 Consumer Investigator Amy Clancy to get her hands on documents concerning Apple's iPods from the Consumer Product Safety Commission because Apple's lawyers filed exemption after exemption. In the end, the CPSC released more than 800 pages which reveal, for the very first time, a comprehensive look that shows, on a number of occasions, iPods have suddenly burst into flames, started to smoke, and even burned their owners.One woman who was burned by a Shuffle said "she was told by an Apple customer service representative that her burn was an isolated incident".The 800 pages of information that KIRO obtained included just "15 burn and fire-related incidents blamed by iPod owners on their iPods".The story says the Consumer Product Safety Commission conducted a preliminary investigation and decided that with more than 175 million iPods sold, "the number of incidents is extremely small in relation to the number of products produced, making the risk of injury very low."The risk may even be lower for iPods than it is with other electronics products, which don't sell in large enough volumes for the problem to become visible.The real question is whether iPod owners should be warned about the risk.Clancy asked that same question of Apple: should its customers know about this? Apple refused to comment, and refused to answer all of the other questions Clancy has been asking of the company since November.But what frustrates people is summed up by Tami Mooneywho called Apple to complain. She claims she got the run-around. "I was so frustrated because frankly, they didn't care. They didn't care that my child was burned. They didn't care about the possibilities that other children were burned."You'd have thought that including a warning and replacing a small number of overheating iPods -- maybe as few as one in 10 million -- would be a more attractive proposition than the potential risk of facing a lawsuit over the sort of tragedy that everyone would regret.* Not in the KIRO story:Apple has statedthat "batteries in the iPod nano (1st generation) sold between September 2005 and December 2006, may overheat and prevent the iPod nano from working and deform it." The support note says "the issue has been traced to a single battery supplier" and tells customers to "contact AppleCare for repair or replacement".
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
With its reach limited to selling shoes in the United States,Zappos.comis hardly a household name worldwide. But the Las Vegas company must be doing something right, since Amazon has just decided to shell out the best part of a billion dollars (either $847m or $920m, depending onwhoyoulistento).Despite Amazon's acquisitive history – over the years it has bought companies like IMDB, Alexa and Stanza - it's the biggest deal the online retailer has ever made… and potentially one of the most important.Why? Because Zappos had the potential to become the next Amazon – or at least the potential to become a substantial competitor. The company has been around for a decade already, but only recently has it really started gaining steam – pulling in over $1bn in revenue last year.In addition, the company (which also sells clothes and accessories) has made a name for itself for its unique approach to business.Chief executive Tony Hsiehhas turned himself into an overseer of a company culture that has competitors panting: an innovative and customer-focused approach that is friendly, helpful and leaves fanswriting virtual love letters.(For example: shortly after they join,new employees are offered $1,000 if they want to quit the company right there and then. The result is that those who stay have decided they are fiercely loyal to the company)I know a few people who use Zappos for purchases, and they are all insanely dedicated to the company. And thanks to a cult of customers who would go out and spread the word to their friends and family, many had tipped the company for major success in the future.So why sell?Well, according to the Private Equity Hub blog,there was conflict between company management and investors: essentially, the company thought it could ride out the economic downturn and eventually launch on the stock market – but its investors just wanted to cash in.That makes a lot of sense – although it seems short-sighted of major investor Sequoia, which knows a good deal, having previously put money in Google, Cisco and Electronic Arts. And let's not forget that the onerous process of going public might have convinced the company to sell when a big enough offer was on the table (Hseih has previous history here too – he built and sold online ad network LinkExchange to Microsoft back in the 1990s for $265m).Jeff Bezos apparently loves Zappos. They say, in return, that they are planning to expand rapidly as a result of the deal.Whether linking up with Amazon allows Zappos to become a worldwide brand remains to be seen… but I can't help thinking that we've just seen the end of the biggest company that never was.
&bull; Intel haslaunched an appeal against the €1bn fine levied by the European Commission, reports theFinancial Times. The penalty was announced two months ago after a 10-year investigation by regulators... so it's unlikely to be overturned quickly.&bull; You may never have heard of Zappos.com, an American online shoe retailer that has created a lot of buzz with its customer-friendly approach to business. But you might hear a lot more from them soon;Amazon just bought them up around $920m. Zappos boss Tony Hsieh wrotean email to employeesdescribing it as "Zappos and Amazon sitting in a tree".&bull; Happy Thursday! Here's a special gift - a new edition of our weekly Technology Guardian supplement. Inside, lots of stuff includingwhat Amazon's Kindle debacle really means; an interview with Segway inventorDean Kamenand a look athotly-tipped website Scribd. All this and more, just 90p from your newsagent, oravailable online.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
I want a robust netbook that I can take on my travels. I'll be using a cycle, motorbike and public transport, sometimes in developing countries.Paul JeffcuttThe machine that immediately springs to mind is theOLPC(One Laptop Per Child) XO-1, which is designed for children in the third world. It has its own idiosyncratic Linux-based operating system called Sugar. I suggest youread the instructionsfirst, then try running it on a PC using aLiveCD. This lets you try it without actually buying an OLPC.An alternative is an Intel Classmate PC. The original design, made by many small companies across the world, is intended to be more rugged than consumer netbooks, which are not particularly robust. Classmates are usually available running Microsoft Windows XP. Examples include the Zoostorm FizzBook Bang, and the forthcoming Archos Classmate, which looks the same.A chip-based SSD (Solid State Drive) should be more robust than a conventional hard drive, even when shock-protection is included. This could be important when travelling by motorcycle, where the vibration levels will be very high. You can use your body as a shock absorber by carrying the PC in a well-cushioned backpack, not in a pannier, but it's still risky.There is a big market for "ruggedised" notebooks for public services and military services, and there are Mil-Spec standards to cover them. Panasonic is perhaps the best known vendor, with its Toughbook range. In fact, it hasfive classes of Toughbookfrom "business-rugged" through "fully-rugged" to "ultra-mobile-rugged" designed using MIL-STD-810F. Ruggedness obviously comes at a price.The Wikipedia entry forRugged computeralso has some useful information.
Can you recommend an utterly reliable, waterproof mobile phone? I work in remote areas for the avalanche service in Scotland in the winter and modern "waterproof", "rugged" phones seem flimsy by comparison to the Motorola 8000 "brick" that I used to have.Tom RuparThere's clearly a need for rugged mobile phones for emergency services and military uses, and perhaps a much bigger potential market among outdoor enthusiasts who want to take their phones climbing, skiing, sailing and so on. One example is the Sonim XP1, which was promoted as theworld's toughest phone. This was also sold as the JCB Toughphone. Sonim now offers the XP3 and some more consumer-oriented models such as LM801. Rivals include the Samsung M110 and Samsung B2700 rugged phones: seerugged-phone.co.ukfor details.With phones you can check the IP number. For example, a phone rated IP57 is rated 5 for resistance to dust and 7 for resistance to water. Bigger numbers are better.
I've been given a secondhand IBM ThinkPad running Windows XP Professional, and I'm getting a lot of updates for the Microsoft .Net Framework. I only use the PC for browsing with Firefox and IE 8, plus accessing my email on Yahoo. Do I need it?Ron ShawMicrosoft launched .Net a decade ago to provide a simpler way of creating Windows programs.Quoting Wikipedia: "The framework's Base Class Library provides a large range of features including user interface, data and data access, database connectivity, cryptography, web application development, numeric algorithms, and network communications".It's also through .Net that Microsoft has retrofitted Windows XP with new technologies developed for Windows Vista. This includes Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF), the new graphics subsystem used by, for example,Silverlight.Although .Net doesn't appear to do anything, an increasing number of programs won't work without it.
I would like to set up a restriction so that a guest user cannot use any of the USB ports on my PC.Mweni ChibwaUsually, this kind of facility is provided via an Active Directory (AD) server and Group Policies, but home versions of Windows don't support Group Policies.Microsoft Knowledge Base article 823732has a workaround for Windows XP that involves editing the registry. However, searching for"USB blocker"will turn up examples of utilities that will do the job, includingNetWrix USB blocker, which is free.There's alsouHook USB Disk Security v2.2, which provides more comprehensive data-theft defences, and, it says, "is designed keeping in mind the requirement of a home PC user". It costs £13.74, but there's a trial version.
You may have alreadyseen todaythat Sam Raimi has signed up to direct a movie based onBlizzard's Warcraft series. The franchise started out as a real-time strategy game in 1994, but 2004 saw the release of the landmark massively-multiplayer online RPG,World of Warcraftwhich currently boasts over 11 million subscribers. There's no release date for the movie yet, but it'll be produced by Atlas Entertainment in association with Raimi's own Stars Road Entertainment company.And really, this easily the most interesting videogame/movie talent pairing since John Woo joined Midway for Stranglehold.Raimi, of course, has worked with hugely popular genre material in the past, his Spider-Man trilogy managing to impress a massive mainstream audience as well as the character's diehard fans (well, the first two movies did anyway). That ability to translate arcane fare into the multiplex arena will no doubt come in useful when he begins to unravel the battle-blighted universe of Azeroth.On top of this, his Evil Dead trilogy shows a keen understanding of fantasy horror. Raimi knows how to treat a mythical universe with both reverence and sly wit, which will serve this brand well.Together with Prince of Persia, due out next years and bizarrely being directed by Mike 'Four Weddings and a Funeral' Newell, Warcraft could mark a new era for the ill-fated videogame adaptation. Certainly, James Cameron's game-inspired Avatar, out at the end of the year, suggests we're starting to move away from the Uwe Boll school of straight-to-DVD sewage.There are also well-funded translations of Bioshock and Gears of War in development, and a Metal Gear Solid flick is likely. And even out of failed videogame projects, interesting things are emerging: it will be fascinating to see how sci-fi race allegoryDistrict 9fares - this is, famously, the short that director Neill Blomkamp fashioned into a feature when Halo disappeared down the development plug hole. It may well hint at what the director could have done with Bungie's massive license.It's a little too early, though, to suggest that the presence of Raimi and Newell in this sector hints at a renaissance for the videgame movie. After all, new Mortal Kombat, Hitman and Blood Rayne tie-ins are all in the works, and we'd be insane to expect much from those. For every step forward there's probably always going to be a Boll-financed lurch in the opposite direction...Anyway, we've discussed this before, but there are lots of new contenders out there at the moment: which hot new (or indeed interesting veteran) movie directors would YOU like to see working on videogame-based films?
Zoom in on artThe National Gallery has launched a new site that lets you zoom into artworks.Slide with a NokiaNokia is releasing the 6760 Slide messaging phone with sliding qwerty keypad.Google goes the extra meterIn the US, Google is developing a PowerMeter to help people manage home electricity consumption via its iGoogle page.SSDs at 256GBCrucial's new Lexar range of fast Flash-based solid state drives (SSDs) now go up to 256GB, for &pound;367.99.A Liquid approachMacrovision, known for copy-protection, has changed name to Rovi, and plans to launch Liquid, an EPG.Symbian holds courtThe Symbian Foundation will hold the Symbian Exchange and Expo at London's Earls Court 2, from 27-28 October.Speak up for BrumBe Vocal has launched - to use "social media" for social good in Birmingham.Kids get literateRadio company Pure now has a Fun Pack for kids in association with the National Literacy Trust.News in fit formatsAP and the Media Standards Trust have proposed a new microformat for online news stories.
