A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team.(And yes, we're calling it "Boot up" now rather than Newsbucket. Snappier. Starts faster. Caffeine-injected.)Exclusive: Yahoo Is About To Sell Delicious For $1-$2 Million &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Yahoo is about to close a deal to sell bookmarking site Delicious for $1-$2m, says a source familiar with the discussions.&#10;"Our source isn't sure what company is buying it, but says it's a 'strategic partner', something like StumbleUpon. StumbleUpon just raised a fresh $17m round, so it could easily afford Delicious. We called StumbleUpon for comment and haven't heard back."Price paid for Delicious in December 2005: reckoned to be between $10m and $15m.Why the Nitro JavaScript Engine Isn't Available to Apps Outside Mobile Safari in iOS 4.3 &gt;&gt; Daring Fireball"The obvious question: Why? The cynical answer is that Apple seeks to discourage the use of home screen web apps. But if that were the case, why don't apps from the App Store get Nitro either? Many, many App Store apps use embedded UIWebView controls for displaying web content.&#10;"The real answer is about security."MIT NSE Nuclear Information Hub &gt;&gt; Department of Nuclear Science and Engineering at MITJapanese nuclear news and analysis, but with facts. Sort of like RealClimate for nuclear emergencies.Stephen Elop, Nokia talks with Geoff Cutmore, CNBC, Abu Dhabi Media Summit 2011 &gt;&gt; YouTubeNothing dramatic, but 22 minutes of useful insight. Includes all the pronunciations - Noh-kee-ya, No-kya, Noak-ya - of the company name, sometimes within the same sentence.Firm to Pay FTC $250,000 to Settle Charges That It Used Misleading Online "Consumer" and "Independent" Reviews &gt;&gt; FTC.gov"The Learn and Master Guitar program promoted by Legacy Learning and Smith is sold as a way to learn the guitar at home using DVDs and written materials."According to the FTC's complaint, Legacy Learning advertised using an online affiliate program, through which it recruited "Review Ad" affiliates to promote its courses through endorsements in articles, blog posts, and other online editorial material, with the endorsements appearing close to hyperlinks to Legacy's website. Affiliates received in exchange for substantial commissions on the sale of each product resulting from referrals."According to the FTC, such endorsements generated more than $5 million in sales of Legacy's courses."And now they have to pay back 4% of it. Something's not quite right about that.Xbox, Windows unite in internal Microsoft video &gt;&gt; GeekWire"Is this the future of Windows PCs?"ZDNet's Stephen Chapman has unearthed an internal video from Microsoft's 'Windows Gaming eXperience' team, showing the company's vision for PC gaming and communications. In short, it looks a lot like the current or near-term reality for Xbox Live and Xbox 360, signaling that Microsoft is increasingly aiming to blend it all together."Study comparing Android to iPhone Web browsing speed flawed &gt;&gt; Loop InsightThose 45,000 web pages? "Their testing is flawed because they didn't actually test the Safari web browser on the iPhone," Apple spokesperson, Natalie Kerris, told The Loop. "Instead they only tested their own proprietary app which uses an embedded web viewer that doesn't take advantage of Safari's web performance optimizations. Despite this fundamental testing flaw, they still only found an average of a second difference in loading web pages.""Obviously someone is looking to make a mountain out of a molehill," Gartner analyst, Michael Gartenberg, told The Loop. "It's not an apples to apples test."And: a second? Latency on sites and transmission speeds will make a bigger difference in real life.Japan a robot power everywhere except at nuclear plant &gt;&gt; Yahoo! News"Japan may build robots to play the violin, run marathons and preside over weddings, but it has not deployed any of the machines to help repair its crippled reactors.&#10;"While robots are commonplace in the nuclear power industry, with EU engineers building one that can climb walls through radioactive fields, the electric power company running Japan's Fukushima Dai-ichi plant has not deployed any for the nuclear emergency."There's a great temptation to talk of fiddling while the reactor core burns... but we'll resist it.iPhone vs. Android – 45,000 Tests Prove Whose Browser is Faster &gt;&gt; Blaze.ioComparing an iPhone 4 and Nexus S: "First of all, we found that Android's browser is faster. Not just a little faster, but a whopping 52% faster. Android's Chrome beat iPhone's Safari by loading 84% of the websites faster, meaning Safari won the race only 16% of the time. While we expected to see one of the browsers come out on top, we didn't expect this gap.&#10;"Secondly, we saw that despite the optimized JavaScript engines in the latest iPhone &amp; Android versions, browsing speed did not get better. Both Apple and Google tout great performance improvements, but those seem to be reserved to JavaScript benchmarks and high-complexity apps. If you expect pages to show up faster after an upgrade, you'll be sorely disappointed."Thousands of Twitter users hit by classic Facebook scam &gt;&gt; Naked Security"Over 9,000 Twitter users clicked on links posted by fellow Twitter users, claiming to be about a girl who killed herself after her dad posted a message online:"OMG: This GIRL KILLED HERSELF after her father posted THIS on her wall: [LINK]&#10;"Find the wording familiar? Well, you might very well do if you're a Facebook user, as the 'girl kills herself after her father' meme has become one of the most popular methods by which scammers on the social network have tricked people into clicking on their links in the last year."The fact that a Facebook scam can already be described as "classic" is faintly worrying in itself.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The internet is under threat. At risk is what's known as "net neutrality", or the principle of free access for each user to every online site, regardless of content.  That's the view of the man who coined the above term, Tim Wu, whose new book,The Master Switch, was published yesterday. It argues the internet now runs the risk of not just political censorship – as seen in Libya and Egypt, and in the American reaction to WikiLeaks – but that of commercial censorship, too. Monopolies such as Google and Apple may soon decide to choose which parts of the internet to give us – or switch off – and in some cases have already started to do so."We are in a critical period for the internet,"Tim Wu, the book's author, says. "What the internet is, is in flux." Wu looks, a colleague suggests, like a cleverer version of Keanu Reeves. In reality, he is a senior adviser to the Obama administration on, fittingly, the competition issues that concern internet and mobile industries. A position which, ironically, makes him a distant colleague of the officials waging war against WikiLeaks and Bradley Manning. An academic lawyer by trade – he has taught at Chicago, Columbia and Stanford – Wu has also long been a respected commentator on internet issues, and writes regularly for Slate magazine. The first to coin the term "net neutrality", Wu is sometimes mentioned in the same breath as social media experts Jay Rosen and Jeff Jarvis, and sceptics Evgeny Morozov, Nicholas Carr and Jaron Lanier. But unlike these five, whose work is mainly concerned with a discussion about the (de)merits of online activity, Wu's book perhaps places him in a critically different category. The Master Switch is less concerned with the rights and wrongs of the internet today, and more concerned with its long-term future."The internet is about 15 years into its cycle as an open medium," says Wu, "and at that moment in their cycle, most open media tend to turn to closed media." What Wu means is that the internet might be about to go the same way as the information services of the 20th century: the telephone, radio, cinema and television. "Internet is the descendant of these industries," Wu says, "a 15-year-old teenager." And if we want to know what kind of adult this teenager will become, "the clearest way is to look at its parents, and look what happened to them when they reached their 20s".What happened, he argues, is that they went from being technologies used by lots of different individuals and companies, to ones controlled by just a few monopolies. He uses the example of AT&amp;T, the great American telephone monopolist, "who went to the American people and said, 'We will be good, we will build the best telephone network in the world: give us the monopoly'." He points to the American film industry, and shows how it quickly was transformed from an industry that was relatively easy to enter, to one mainly controlled by a few Hollywood studios.Wu's fear is that a similar consolidation of power may be about to happen to the internet. "When we talk about the internet," he says, "we're only talking about three or four companies . . . Amazon, Google, Apple, Facebook." These big four are so large that one or more of them could team up with a mobile network and end net neutrality (a term that Wu coined in 2003) by privileging that network's clients above all others. It's something that is already partly happening. Apple's iPhone was at first only available to AT&amp;T customers in the US and O2 clients in the UK. And since Google teamed up with American phone firm Verizon last summer, it now at least has the option to do somethingsimilar. Wu won't comment on these deals directly, due to his position with the US government. But, he says, like AT&amp;T in the 1910s, "Google has similarly promised the world: 'We will be a good company.' And we have essentially conferred it a dominance over the market, and over how we find our information, because we believe it will be good." However, warns Wu, "the question everyone has is whether one day Google will have its Heart of Darkness moment."If it does, says Wu, what's at stake is the principle on which the internet was founded. At its inception, "the internet was typically a place where you could put up content without anybody's permission". But partnerships between the bigger web-related companies might squeeze out the smaller ones. Using the example of the online news industry, Wu suggests that if newspapers were to follow the example of Rupert Murdoch's new iPad-based "paper",The Daily, and "become exclusive partners with Apple, it may be easier for them to make money, but we may also end up with a media on the internet that is significantly more closed than it is now." This is because, he says, "You can imagine a future where blogs don't really have a meaningful future, because the content provided on a platform [such as Apple] doesn't create any room for anyone other than its exclusive media partners."  So, Wu concludes: "The internet as a forum for speech, as a place where an individual with a talent can compete with a major newspaper – I'm suggesting that model may be passing."But though the internet was a freer place in its younger days, I ask Wu, wasn't it only available to a privileged few? Big conglomerates may be growing ever powerful, but haven't they at least brought the internet to a much wider audience than the academics and techies of the early 90s? "It shouldn't be a trade-off," Wu replies. "There is some truth to the idea that companies are interested in consumers, and so they bring [the internet] to a broader marketplace – but it is still important to stand up for the original values of the internet." Wu sees these values "as fundamental to a free society", values that we should preserve even as the internet becomes "a mass consumption product. And I think it's possible. You don't have to throw those values out the window just because millions of people are using it."Wu recommends protecting these values through the maintenance of something that in his book he calls the "separation principle". Just as journalists maintain "a separation of news and opinion", Wu argues, "the people who move and carry information should stay at some distance from the creators of content, because they have a natural conflict of interest." In other words, though Wu does not name names, companies such as Apple and Google should stay well away from mobile networks such as AT&amp;T and Verizon.He feels government and consumers have a dual responsibility to police this conflict. Legislation should prevent mergers between the carriers of internet content, and the producers of the content. Consumers should boycott any company that threatens net neutrality. Will it work? Wu is undecided. "My big question is whether, five years from now, the big four companies will be even more consolidated, with other companies mattering less and less – or whether the internet will have proved its truly radical nature, and a whole new cast of characters will have emerged . . . And I don't know the answer."• The Master Switch: The Rise and Fall of Information Empires by Tim Wu is published by Atlantic Books, £19.99
A judge is determining how much to charge the  legal firm ACS:Law after officially closing a piracy case that it brought alleging file-sharing, during which it sent people letters threatening court action if they did not make "settlement" payments of up to £500 for copyright infringement.ACS:Law, created by solicitor Andrew Crossley, and its client Media CAT, which licensed a number of pornographic films, apparently collected hundreds of thousands of pounds from people using its "speculative invoicing" procedure before it brought 27 cases before the Patents County Court in London. But it then tried to halt the trial before it had to bring any evidence.Judge Birss, who presided over the trial, officially ended it on Thursday following a request from Guy Tritton, a barrister acting for the alleged file-sharers. The judge is now considering how much to bill Crossley's company and Media CAT – and warned that "if ever there was a case of conduct out of the norm, it is this one".Tritton said that the two companies wasted court time because they had no intention of following through with the trial and had merely used the threat of legal action as a means to squeeze money from those targeted in the letter-writing campaign.A previous attempt by ACS:Law to end the trial was rejected by the judge on the basis that it had not clarified whether the ultimate copyright owner might have grounds to pursue the alleged infringers. Judge Birss insisted that the process should be carried through so that the defendants in the civil suit could have their legal status clarified.ACS:Law and Media CAT could now be liable for payments running to more than £100,000: one solicitor representing five of the defendants says its bill is £90,000. But ACS:Law closed down suddenly earlier this yearThe bizarre saga in which ACS:Law's site has been hacked, spilling thousands of emails and client details over the web, has run on for months.Details that leaked in Novemberrevealed that ACS:Law kept about 40% of payments; it was unclear how much, if any, of the payments reached the original copyright holders.In January Crossleysaid his company would cease to pursue alleged infringerswhile trying to abandon the cases. Judge Birss said then: "I am not happy about this. I get the distinct impression that at every twist and turn there is a desire to avoid judicial scrutiny."It seems to be first instinct to avoid judicial scrutiny. There's been thousands of letters, and only 27 cases have had to be dropped – I doubt that. Copyright infringement is a serious matter, but this is just mindboggling."In February,ACS:Law appeared to shutdown– which may complicate the recovery of costs. Crossley is still being investigated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority over the letter campaign.
A series of apps with cute cartoon wildlife. One hundred million app downloads. The ambition to be "the next Disney". No, not Angry Birds developer Rovio Mobile. Fellow iOS developer Outfit7 is about to hit its own nine-figure milestone, and as chief executive Andrej Nabergoj explains, the company is only just getting started.Outfit7's growth is all the more startling when you realise that its first app – Talking Tom Cat – was only released in June 2010. It's a virtual pet cat who can be stroked and poked, and can repeat words spoken into the handset's microphone, with users also able to record videos to be uploaded to YouTube.By the end of January, the app had passed 35 million downloads, and had been joined by seven others. "We are altogether approaching 100 million downloads," says Nabergoj. "Our apps are getting between 12 and 15 million downloads every month. We're benefiting from this tremendous distribution platform that is unlike anything developers have seen before."Outfit7 doesn't call itself a game developer, although its latest app, Talking Gina the Giraffe, moves more in that direction with mini-games and a Tamagotchi-style happiness score. Nabergoj is emphatic that from the start the company has focused on making "digital toys"."We didn't want to do another game," he says. "We're not a gaming company, and game design is not in our DNA. We wanted to do something that was very short-form and casual in its nature, which leveraged voice and touch at the same time. But we didn't want to make a stupid app, like the fart apps and other things that are posted under the Entertainment category of the App Store. We wanted to do something in entertainment that was engaging."The immediate reaction to talking cats, birds, hippos and giraffes might be to think of them as novelties, but Nabergoj talks animatedly about getting emails from teachers, speech therapists and carers telling him about Outfit7's apps making significant connections with their young charges."What people really care about is using these characters to communicate," he says, citing the open-ended nature of the Talking apps as the prime factor – by not being restricted to "game" paths, people are finding their own uses for the animals."We're developing toys. The only parallel with what we're doing is toys like Lego: open-ended experiences that interact with the user and unlock his imagination. We have some of that and we want to keep it more that way instead of going down a game route where we try to design and control the experience. There's a lot of pressure in the games community to design for every single use case."That said, Outfit7 is planning to extend into more directly educational apps, and also some "very interesting things" in the music space.The company's business model is a mixture of paid app downloads, in-app payments for virtual items, advertising and offers – where users can get items for free by agreeing to download another app. He plays a straight bat to questions about revenues, but earlier this year Outfit7 announced that it made $200,000 on Christmas Day alone last year.Nabergoj certainly isn't setting his sights low. "What we're trying to do is build the next Disney," he says."When you think about it, Disney was created around a simple idea – Mickey Mouse – then went on to TV with a cartoon series that created a franchise. That's something we can do, starting on the mobile platform. We think that in a couple of years we can create an IP-based company that evolves pretty much in a similar way that Disney has in the last 50 years."Remind you of anyone? Here's a recent quote from Rovio Mobile's Peter Vesterbacka, talking about his company's plans to build on Angry Birds. "We're building an integrated entertainment franchise where merchandising, games, movies, TV, cartoons and comics all come together, like Disney 2.0. Look at how Disney got started: Steamboat Willie created Mickey Mouse, then they added more characters. You can see the same pattern today, but everything is happening much, much faster."That quote was well publicised, so Nabergoj is presumably aware of it. Claiming to be the next Disney is, of course, one way to try to position yourself as a tempting acquisition for the original Disney and its big media compatriots. While Nabergoj says he respects what Rovio has done, it's clear there is a competitive instinct at work here."I love Angry Birds, but I don't think they have the right opportunity to take their characters into a huge franchise," he says. "At the end of the day, they are a game, and in a game you are not as focused on the characters as you are on scoring and levelling up. I don't think Angry Birds can be the Barbie Doll or the Tom &amp; Jerry of the future. I would advise them to focus on the mobile space and try to maintain their leadership in the games category."We suspect this isn't the last you'll hear of this rivalry. Rovio has just announced a $42 million funding round to fuel its ambitions to break out of that games category, of course. Is Outfit7 considering looking for a similar cash injection to keep its ambitions burning?"We are probably one of the most profitable companies in this space right now," says Nabergoj. "We're not spending any money on customer acquisition, so everything we make goes straight to the bottom line. If we are considering funding, it's not for financial reasons. It's because of the people we want to get involved with the company who'll help us build the next Disney."
Microsoft is trumpeting the fact that Internet Explorer 9 - you know, itsnew browser- wasdownloaded 2.3m times in its first 24 hours."We want to thank everyone around the world for downloading IE9 and the enthusiastic reception," writes Ryan Gavin on the Windows team blog. "2.3 million downloads in 24 hours is over double the 1 million downloads we saw of the IE9 Beta and four times that of the IE9 RC over the same time period."It's good - but record-breaking it definitely isn't. As Download Squadpoints out, Firefox 3.5 managed 5m in the same period, and in 2008 Firefox 3 managed 8m - which means it holds the record.So IE9 is hosed, right? After all, it can't be installed on Windows XP, so that's it, surely?Wrong. It's going to get pushed out to Windows 7 and Vista machines on 21 March as an "Important" update via Windows Update - so that's millions of machines that will be updated.In the case of Vista, the default version that shipped with it was IE7; with Windows 7, IE8.It might not count as "downloads" but the automatic updating process is going to mean that from 22 March, sites will see a dramatic jump in the percentage of machines accessing them with IE9. It might not hit Firefox numbers quite there, but don't forget thatWindows 7 is the fastest-selling OS of all time, with 240m copies sold in its first year. First-day downloads of IE9 don't matter much. The number of machines to which it is rolled out by automatic update does - and it's huge.Equally, it won't replace Firefox: someone who's doing their browsing with Firefox won't stop doing so just because their browser has been updated. Thus the most likely scenario here is that lots of IE7 and IE8 hits will from 22 March turn into IE9 hits. But given that IE9 is Microsoft's most standards-driven browser since, well, probably its first one, that's got to be a good thing.Further reading:our review of Internet Explorer 9.
It takes a certain kind of person to want to be a MotoGP rider. Taking corners at upwards of 100mph with your knee inches from the floor, opponents clustered around you and little more than a bike helmet and a padded jumpsuit for protection just isn't everyone's cup of tea. Capcom's latest contribution to the bike racing genre may not involve quite the same levels of physical danger but it is probably fair to say that, like the sport itself, this game will be something of an acquired taste."This is the most authentic MotoGP game ever," boasts the packaging, and it is clear even from a glance at the controls that this is no lightweight arcade fare. Players can manage everything from separate front and back brakes to adjusting their rider's body position: allowing them to tuck in on straights, or shift their body weight forwards and back on the bike as the course demands.All these options can be set to automatic, but even on its gentlest setting, MotoGP 10/11 requires some patience at first. The handling is – as you would expect – very different to car racing games and even an ideal racing line displayed on the track won't keep most players on course in the early going. The commitment to realism is reflected in the bikes' modest braking capacity and to navigate a corner at the end of a fast straight requires forward planning. Although the racing line does change colour when you are going too fast, by that point it may already be too late.It is also, of course, far easier to lose control of a bike than a car and if the corners themselves weren't tricky enough there is also a need to avoid significant collisions with opponents – easier said than done when there are more than 20 of them on the track. If there was to be one gripe here it would be that on occasion the game can feel inconsistent – at times you will stay on your bike even after a hefty whack against another bike, at others far less contact is required to send you skidding across the tarmac.But that is the only real complaint and those who stick with it through the initial frustrations will find an engrossing game, with authentic sounds and graphics adding to the sense of realism and a level of challenge that makes subsequent successes feel all the more rewarding. Besides, as with various other racing titles out at the moment, there is also a rewind facility available for the impatient, allowing you to go back in time and undo a crash or mistake.Career mode will provide most of the game's longevity, with all the usual sorts of distractions you would expect to find – from altering your bike's appearance to hiring marketing people to boost your income and engineers to improve your bike – as well as the opportunity to progress up the ranks from 125cc bikes to the full MotoGP class. True petrol heads can tinker with the minutiae of everything from their gears to traction control in-between races. Best of all, career mode even includes the option to play co-operatively, by adding a friend to your team and racing together.For quicker thrills there is a time-trial mode as well as a challenge mode in which riders are required to pull off moves against the clock. Online play also allows for up to 20 human racers to take the track at once. In the end a faithful MotoGP sim will probably have limited appeal to those not already interested in the sport, but those who do give it a try should find plenty here to keep them entertained.• Reviewed on Xbox 360
I downloaded a movie and I'm trying to get rid of it from my system, but the message I get is: "The action can't be completed because the file is open in Windows Explorer." The item type is called: MKV File. What does it mean?SamMicrosoft Windows will not let you delete files if it is using them, and MKV files seem to be a common culprit. MKV stands forMatroska Video, and indicates that the video is packed in a Matroska open standard multimedia container instead of, for example, AVI (Audio Video Interleave), which was introduced by Microsoft in 1992. (Matroska is the container Google is using for WebM video in HTML5.)Windows Explorer may well be "using" the file, even though you're not playing it. For example, it may be accessing the file to show content in icons. I think there's a switch for this. Go to Tools and select Folder Options, click the View tab, and see if you can check the box marked: "Always show icons, never thumbnails". However, using icons to preview contents makes files easier to find, though it does use some processing power.You should be able to delete the MKV file by deleting the folder that it's in. For example, if it's in a folder called New Movies, create a new folder called New Movies Temp, then move all the other files – the ones you don't want to delete – into that folder. (To select all the other files, select the MKV file then press Alt-E followed by I for invert.) Go up one level so Explorer can see the folder (New Movies) but not the file, and delete the folder. You can now go to New Movies Temp, and press F2 to edit the name and delete the Temp, thus recreating your original New Movies folder.Another approach is to use a script or batch file to delete the file when you restart Windows. The script can delete the unwanted file before Windows has loaded. This feature is included in several utilities, and you can download various small programs to do the job. Look for something that says "delete on boot". I've used and havepreviouslymentionedGiPo@MoveOnBoot, which is free from Gibin. This lets you either move or delete files that have been locked by the operating system.Of course, the ultimate way to delete a file from Windows is to do it without running Windows. This can be done fromBartPE, or "Bart's Preinstalled Environment bootable live windows CD/DVD", but you need a Windows XP CD to create one. Other options include Microsoft's stripped-down Windows PE, which is part of the Windows Automated Installation Kit (AIK), and any Linux Live CD. But these are usually tools of last resort, where something has gone badly wrong with Windows or you have to remove a particularly well-protected virus file. Deleting an MKV file should never require this much effort.Incidentally, you might find the problem goes away if you install theK-Lite Codec Pack. This is a quick and, in my experience, reliable way of providing Windows with the codecs required to run most non-Microsoft video files, including ones in MKV containers. The full version of the pack includes Media Player Classic Homecinema, which is a simpler, lighter, "version" of Media Player using non-Microsoft code. It's a good player for Windows users, though not cross-platform like the Videolan player,VLC. Many scammers and Windows virus distributers use fake codec downloads to try to install malware, but if you're using the K-Lite pack, you can be pretty sure they're lying.But bear in mind that Microsoft has taken to hiding and protecting files for a reason. It reduces the number of essential files that stupid Windows users delete for no logical reason, perhaps preventing their PCs from running. It's fine to delete data files, especially ones you have downloaded, but be careful not to delete system files. Instead, use the Add/Remove programs feature to uninstall applications and Windows components you no longer want.
Celebrities are often wheeled out to add appeal to games launches, often without providing any sort of proof that they actually are gamers. However, theBafta game awardsoffered a unique assembly of celebs who did have some sort of stake in the games industry.Dara O Briain, in his third year as presenter, was a particularly safe choice – every year, the man manages to craft a glorious standup routine concentrating solely on games, which would be an impossibility if he was not an enthusiastic gamer.So, is turning games into comedy difficult? "I find it surprisingly easy to come up with stuff based on games. Last night I had to tell jokes about the TV industry – that was infinitely harder. I've played five of the six nominees for best game this year, with the exception of Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood."So which ones was he rooting for? "Limbo and Heavy Rain. I'm intrigued to see if Heavy Rain will be awarded for the narrative leap it made away from the obvious blockbusters. And it will be interesting to see if Limbo will be awarded for gameplay that you couldn't sustain over 40 hours of play. I'm a 39-year-old with two kids, and that's the only sort of game I can play through these days."The Gadget Show presenter Jason Bradbury, another noted gamer in the public eye, also lauded Limbo: "I was challenged on The Gadget Show to build a game, and I based it on the Limbo aesthetic."But the game he was rooting for most enthusiastically was: "It might surprise you: Dance Central. Things like Call of Duty: Black Ops are such obvious vote-winners with the mass gaming public, but Dance Central does something unique in cahoots with an incredible piece of technology in Kinect."Bradbury also singled out Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood: "Assassin's Creed has really grown over the years, and Brotherhood is fantastic ... [while] Halo: Reach [is] almost the perfect multiplayer experience."Actor Sir Ben Kingsley proved pleasant and approachable, although he admitted: "I'm not really a gamer. But I have enormously enjoyed being on the creative side, starting off with my voice acting for Fable III. I think being able to get involved with games is very, very good for us actors."One attendee, of course, has gone beyond voice acting, by appearing more or less as himself in Assassin's Creed II and Brotherhood: Danny Wallace. Indeed, it could be argued that Wallace has conjured an acting career from his Assassin's Creed appearances – he was fresh back from filming a pilot in LA.The whole thing, he said, began at a Bafta games awards ceremony a few years ago: "The weird thing is that it was at one of these when a rather drunk man came up to me and said he wanted me to be in his game."Actor Robert Llewellyn, known among other things for being Kryten in Red Dwarf, said: "I'm a very late convert to gaming – when I grew up, computers took up entire buildings. But now, I'm obsessed with Angry Birds."Llewellyn also confirmed that a new series of Red Dwarf has been commissioned, with Doug Naylor doing the writing, although filming is currently being stymied by the cast's diverse commitments.
World of Warcraft is the king of massively multiplayer online games but a recently released competitor called Rift looks like being the most polished competitor to emerge. We recently spoke to Rift game designer Will Cook.What is Rift and what does it bring to the MMO genre?Rift is a massively multiplayer online game focused on bringing players a dynamic world full of unpredictable experiences, as well as one of most customisable class systems found in any game. We truly want the player to have as much control as possible over how their character plays, and then toss them new and exciting challenges every day. Beyond these features, Trion also hopes to set a new bar for polish, stability, and service in an MMO, and we hope that the smooth experience of our recent launch and the rapid turnaround of our first game update have supported this aim.WoW is the obvious competitor – how are you going to attract players of this and other MMOs over?Between our class system and our dynamic content, Rift should feel like a graduation game for those who have played past MMOs. Not only can you make classes reminiscent of your past favourites, but you will also be able to dream up combinations that you never thought possible. Players who are tired of levelling with only questing content will find our rift events and dynamic invasions a breath of fresh air. However, regardless of your MMO history, the first time you are swept up in a massive zone event you will know you are playing something special.What sort of customisation is available in Rift?One of the first things that any player, whether an MMO veteran or a novice, will be struck by is our incredible class system. Players will be able to spend points in up to three souls (a sort of mini-class) at any given time in order to determine how their character plays and what role he or she might take in a group. We also allow players to save up to four of the soul arrangements to encourage experimentation. Feel like dishing out the damage tonight? Well then try out a Pyromancer soul mixed with a little Stormcaller and Warlock. Need another healer? Swap out the Stormcaller for Chloromancer and watch the group composition problems of past MMOs melt away.What is your target audience for Rift? Hardcore gamers or those with less time?Rift is a fully featured MMO meant for old and new players alike. New players can lean on the structure and story of our questing system, and the openness of our social content like rifts and invasions where more players, regardless of experience, are always welcome. Elite players may find themselves spending hours tinkering in the depths of the class system and top tier raid game. However, as I mentioned before players of every skill level will drop everything to jump into a zone event to turn back the surge of rifts and take down the massive Colossi that spawn. Colossi are a particular favourite of mine, being a boss monster of enormous size designed to fight against hordes of players at once, whether you're level 10 or level 50.Can players with less time ever hope to succeed compared with those gamers who can spend 10 hours a day?The defining features of our game are available to player from the very beginning of their time in Rift. By the end of the starting experience players will have acquired their first three souls and a good number of points to spend in them. Within minutes you'll see your first rift event and invasion, and you will have trouble making it very far after that without encountering a zone event. Whether you have 30 minutes or three hours, Rift will have a piece of content designed for you. Additionally, every kind of content, from quests to pvp to huge zone events, will give you experience and rewards to help your character progress.How varied are the quests in Rift? Can you give some early examples?I created a new Defiant (one of our player factions) at launch, and within my first hour of play I was activating a huge construct to cut a path through a horde of monsters blocking my way. Moments afterwards I found myself fighting through a Rift event as part of a boss fight alongside some of the signature characters from our game. These sorts of quests are available from the very beginning of Rift, and we endeavour to create these epic questing moments throughout the entirety of a player's experience in Rift.The in-game rifts can be done in pick-up groups – but how important is grouping to Rift as a whole?MMOs have benefited immensely from catering more to the solo player than the first generations of MMO did, but there is also something wonderful about the communities that can form by virtue of group play. Rift has tried to celebrate the best of both worlds. Our dynamic content, in particular rift events, have a base layer that is designed for the solo player. If left alone, a solo player can close the rift by defeating all the stages leading up to and including its first boss, receiving several rewards in the process. However, as more people arrive at these events more difficult stages become available, and only with the help of these added players will you be able to push past the bonus timers into the advanced stages and earn better rewards for everyone. We also have an open grouping system which makes setting up groups in these large events painless (especially helpful in a large zone invasion when there are dozens of players in the same area). It was the success of an impromptu open group that actually led me to join my current guild in Rift.For those that thrive on grouping, Rift is also filled with instanced dungeon content that will require an organised group, as well as advanced raiding content meant for several groups banded together. We even have open-world rift raids that will require a core organized group to tackle, but which encourage additional players that walk by to join in!How does crafting work and how important is it in Rift?We wanted crafting to be something in which everyone could participate, so Rift's crafting system is designed to be something than can compliment a player's progress through the world. Players will gather resources both from the world they adventure through, as well as from the planar content they defeat like rift events and invasions. Using these materials players can create some of the most competitive items at any given level. Players can also augment the power of these crafted items using some of the materials they gather from their planar encounters, which can add a unique touch to every item you create.A lot of MMOs are going down the freemium route but Rift is using the subs model. Are you worried this may impact on the number of users you get?Something that is difficult to get across in a tagline or marketing buzzword is that Trion is here to work for your money. Rift is a service, not a static release. We do not believe that a content update every three to six months is all that it takes to earn a monthly subscription. That is why you have already seen a feature and balance update for Rift when the game has been out barely more than a week! Anyone who got a chance to play in our beta events knows that we take the feedback of our users very seriously. Key features like zone events and open grouping did not exist until we received player feedback in our beta events, and the even larger forms of dynamic content (more info soon!) we have coming in our next major content update came as a result of player wishlist suggestions.All of the above is a long-winded way of saying that we are not very worried about the model that we have chosen. We are making AAA products that guarantee a consistent level polish for every player, and those players who stick with us will get to see us fulfil our promise of continued updates and an ever-evolving game service.Have you looked into using mobile or non-PC as a way for users to interact with Rift?Absolutely. Our twitter integration was the just the first toe in the water of what we have planned. The possibilities are so vast that it can be a bit daunting. What do we create first? An app to tinker with your souls arrangements? An auction house link? Or perhaps something that will give you progress updates during one of our upcoming world events? It is a bit like the Wild West out there. We have the capability, so now it just remains for us to pick our favorites first. We encourage our community to call our suggestions, because you can be sure that anything that makes it to the top of the players' list will be sure to end up on ours as well.Where do you see Rift in a year's time?Frankly, I did not do a great job of predicting where we would be now, so I am sceptical of any guess that I make for the future. At one time invasions were just a dream, and zone events were the delusions of a mad man. I am running out of crazy features to pitch, so hopefully the players can offer us some assistance. For the near future, I hope that our first attempt at world event proves to be something that players like so that we can try some even grander designs. For the longer term ... well I suppose I can say with some certainty that I work at a place that always pushes for more than was planned and has the patience to make possible what seems crazy. In the end, the most important thing we can do is pay attention to the individual elements of our game that prove successful and try to evolve naturally from those. With any luck, that strategy will lead us to something involving space dinosaurs, because that is an undervalued genre for which I have much fondness, but if it turns out that players want us to grow our dynamic content and custom classes, well then that would be pretty neat too.
The US military is developing software that will let it secretly manipulate social media sites by using fake online personas to influence internet conversations and spread pro-American propaganda.A Californian corporation has been awarded a contract with United States Central Command (Centcom), which oversees US armed operations in the Middle East and Central Asia, to develop what is described as an "online persona management service" that will allow one US serviceman or woman to control up to 10 separate identities based all over the world.The project has been likened by web experts to China's attempts to control and restrict free speech on the internet. Critics are likely to complain that it will allow the US military to create a false consensus in online conversations, crowd out unwelcome opinions and smother commentaries or reports that do not correspond with its own objectives.The discovery that the US military is developing false online personalities – known to users of social media as "sock puppets" – could also encourage other governments, private companies and non-government organisations to do the same.The Centcom contract stipulates that each fake online persona must have a convincing background, history and supporting details, and that up to 50 US-based controllers should be able to operate false identities from their workstations "without fear of being discovered by sophisticated adversaries".Centcom spokesman Commander Bill Speaks said: "The technology supports classified blogging activities on foreign-language websites to enable Centcom to counter violent extremist and enemy propaganda outside the US."He said none of the interventions would be in English, as it would be unlawful to "address US audiences" with such technology, and any English-language use of social media by Centcom was always clearly attributed. The languages in which the interventions are conducted include Arabic, Farsi, Urdu and Pashto.Centcom said it was not targeting any US-based web sites, in English or any other language, and specifically said it was not targeting Facebook or Twitter.Once developed, the software could allow US service personnel, working around the clock in one location, to respond to emerging online conversations with any number of co-ordinated messages, blogposts, chatroom posts and other interventions. Details of the contract suggest this location would be MacDill air force base near Tampa, Florida, home of US Special Operations Command.Centcom's contract requires for each controller the provision of one "virtual private server" located in the United Statesand others appearing to be outside the US to give the impression the fake personas are real people located in different parts of the world.It also calls for "traffic mixing", blending the persona controllers' internet usage with the usage of people outside Centcom in a manner that must offer "excellent cover and powerful deniability".The multiple persona contract is thought to have been awarded as part of a programme called Operation Earnest Voice (OEV), which was first developed in Iraq as a psychological warfare weapon against the online presence of al-Qaida supporters and others ranged against coalition forces. Since then, OEV is reported to have expanded into a $200m programme and is thought to have been used against jihadists across Pakistan, Afghanistan and the Middle East.OEV is seen by senior US commanders as a vital counter-terrorism and counter-radicalisation programme. In evidence to the US Senate's armed services committee last year, General David Petraeus, then commander of Centcom, described the operation as an effort to "counter extremist ideology and propagandaand to ensure that credible voices in the region are heard". He said the US military's objective was to be "first with the truth".This month Petraeus's successor, General James Mattis, told the same committee that OEV "supports all activities associated with degrading the enemy narrative, including web engagementand web-based product distribution capabilities".Centcom confirmed that the $2.76m contract was awarded to Ntrepid, a newly formed corporation registered in Los Angeles. It would not disclose whether the multiple persona project is already in operation or discuss any related contracts.Nobody was available for comment at Ntrepid.In his evidence to the Senate committee, Gen Mattis said: "OEV seeks to disrupt recruitment and training of suicide bombers; deny safe havens for our adversaries; and counter extremist ideology and propaganda." He added that Centcom was working with "our coalition partners" to develop new techniques and tactics the US could use "to counter the adversary in the cyber domain".According to a report by the inspector general of the US defence department in Iraq,OEV was managed by the multinational forcesrather than Centcom.Asked whether any UK military personnel had been involved in OEV, Britain's Ministry of Defence said it could find "no evidence". The MoD refused to say whether it had been involved in the development of persona management programmes, saying: "We don't comment on cyber capability."OEV was discussed last year at agathering of electronic warfare specialists in Washington DC, where a senior Centcom officer told delegates that its purpose was to "communicate critical messages and to counter the propaganda of our adversaries".Persona management by the US military would face legal challenges if it were turned against citizens of the US, where a number of people engaged in sock puppetry have faced prosecution.Last year a New York lawyer who impersonated a scholar was sentenced to jail after beingconvicted of "criminal impersonation" and identity theft.It is unclear whether a persona management programme would contravene UK law. Legal experts say it could fall foul of the Forgery and Counterfeiting Act 1981, which states that "a person is guilty of forgery if he makes a false instrument, with the intention that he or another shall use it to induce somebody to accept it as genuine, and by reason of so accepting it to do or not to do some act to his own or any other person's prejudice". However, this would apply only if a website or social network could be shown to have suffered "prejudice" as a result.• This article was amended on 18 March 2011 to remove references to Facebook and Twitter, introduced during the editing process, and to add a comment from Centcom, received after publication, that it is not targeting those sites.
Yoostar 2 is really clever. "Ohh!" you think, as you set everything up and watch your sub-Hollywood self appear in an actual scene from an actual movie, "That is clever." The PS Eye or Kinect snaps your living room, then snips you out from the background and superimposes you in one of 40-ish film clips, ranging from vintage horror (Frankenstein) to classic comedy (Ferris Bueller) to, um, Norbit – a film so grotesquely bad that even Eddie Murphy would probably baulk at being beamed back into it.One of the actors is digitally wiped from the scene and you take over their stance and lines, trying to hit your marks using a SingStar-style bar to maximise those lovely, delicious points. And again, this works remarkably well. Fluff your cue or mumble your dialogue, and the game catches on and punishes you like a disappointed director; stick to the script and give it a bit of expression, and feel yourself ascend to the golden realms of stardom. There's also the option to ad-lib, and find out whether the oh-so-hilarious lines you like to interject while watching movies are really as well-crafted as the products of an LA writers' room.So, the tech is red-carpet ready. The concept's intriguing. And in practice, it's just not very much fun. Yoostar is a party game that has the unfailing power to suck the joy out of any party where you crack it out of the box. Two handers work well, but in any gathering of people in a normal-sized living room, all the non-performers end up dispatched into the corners so as not to distract the camera. Secretly, Yoostar is a bit jealous – it would much rather keep you to itself than share you with friends.  "How about we just stay in together?" it suggests. "You can be Jean-Luc Picard. Dressed as the Borg …" Tempting? Well, a little bit.The key problem is that, as well-balanced as the selection of clips is, there just aren't enough of them and they're just not long enough. Leaning over Boris Karloff and cackling "It's alive!" is delightful, but it only lasts for seconds. What to do next? Repeat the scene, robotically enunciating the phrase ever-more precisely until the console is satisfied? I'm not convinced that counts as enjoyable, or even a game.Yoostar offers social functions for the sort of deranged narcisist who wants to upload videos of themselves pretend-acting where anyone can see them, but it just doesn't have the same show-off potential as SingStar: you can't lose yourself in the poetry of a two-minute clip of Baby Mama in the same way that you can in, say, a lung-bursting version of Total Eclipse of the Heart. You can also choose to play Challenge mode, smashing through scenes and snorting up trophies, although the lack of replay value in the movie extracts makes Quick Play the better option by far. Altogether, Yoostar is as baffling as Gwyneth Paltrow in a rom-com: smart and charming, sure, but basically uninteresting, and nobody's first choice for a fun night in.• Game reviewed on PS3
2010 was officially a vintage year for video games – at least, that was the message from the closest thing the industry has to an Oscars ceremony, the GAME British Academy Awards (better known as the Bafta video games awards).Mass Effect 2 won best game at the ceremony, held at London's Park Lane Hilton  on Wednesday night, while Heavy Rain, Assassin's Creed Brotherhood, Super Mario Galaxy 2, God of War III and Cut the Rope were also recognised.However, big-selling blockbuster Call of Duty: Black Ops was snubbed, winning none of the judged categories. However, games buyers came to its rescue, as it won the publicly voted GAME Award.Psychological thriller Heavy Rain scooped three awards – in the story, technical innovation and original music categories.The most nominated game, Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood, only won one award – but that was in the highly coveted action category.Super Mario Galaxy 2, another contender in several categories, won the Bafta for gameplay, while God of War III took the artistic achievement prize.As well as big-selling blockbusters, the Baftas also recognised under-rated titles such as Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit, which won the multiplayer award. Codemasters' F1 2010 triumphed in the sports category and Battlefield Bad Company 2 won best use of audio.Perhaps the only disappointment of the night was the failure of Limbo to pick up a gong, despite five nominations – perhaps if 2010 hadn't been such a strong year for releases, it would not have gone home empty handed.The most left-field award was for Twang, which won the Ones to Watch category, fought between three games created over the space of 10 weeks, under the Dare to Be Digital banner. Channel 4 is poised to air a series examining the process of creating those games, Crunch Time, which launches on 27 March.Other winners included iPhone app Cut the Rope in the handheld category, Kinect Sports in the family category, My Empire in the social network game category and the venerable but unimpeachable Civilization V in the strategy category.Finally, Lionshead boss Peter Molyneux – who created games such as Populous and Fable – was presented with the fellowship award by Sir Ben Kingsley.Bafta video games awards: complete list of  winnersAction:Assassin's Creed: BrotherhoodArtistic achievement:God of War IIIBest game:Mass Effect 2Family:Kinect SportsGameplay:Super Mario Galaxy 2Handheld:Cut the RopeMultiplayer:Need For Speed: Hot PursuitOriginal music:Heavy RainSocial network game:My EmpireSports:F1 2010Story:Heavy RainStrategy:Civilization VTechnical innovation:Heavy RainUse of audio:Battlefield: Bad Company 2Bafta ones to watch award in association with Dare to Be Digital:TwangGAME award of 2010:Call of Duty: Black Ops
App developers are concerned that Google is being too lax in its regulation of the Android Market, where apps are made available for download to the millions of Android phones now in use – and allowing copyright infringements, as well as therisk of malware-laden apps, to flourish.There are also concerns that it's simply too hard to get discovered on the Market – meaning that unless you're one of Google's own apps, or a port of an iPhone app, you probably won't feature in a prominent place where people might see your work.Kevin Baker, an Android developer based in the UK, says that the combination of lack of discoverability and ease of copying and republishing is turning the Market toxic. Unlike Apple, where the iTunes App Store has rigorous pre-approval processes in which apps are run against a suite of tests to check that they comply with its rules, the Android Market allows anyone to post apps – although Google can then remove them from both the Market and any handsets to which they have been downloaded.Baker told the Guardian:"I have a game on the market calledSinister Planetwhich was released about eight months ago. Sales have been pretty slow, although picking up slowly over the months, despite a lot of great reviews. The main problem is that Android Market discoverablity is very poor, and Google themselves don't help the situation by only featuring apps their are either (1) created by Google, or (2) iPhone ports. Independent developers like myself hardly ever get a look in."One of my customers emailed me three weeks ago, and informed me that another company was selling a version of my app – pirated and uploaded as their own. Of course I contacted Google right away. It took Google two days to take the app down. This publisher was also selling other versions of pirated games. I contacted the original developers of those games but they were still being sold a week later. You'd think [Google] might have a hotline for things like that!"I would also note that the publisher selling the pirated games is still trading on the Android Market. They didn't even get their account suspended. If there's going to be malware hidden inside apps, it's that the exact place where it would be? Why are these accounts still allowed to be trading? It's negligent as far as I'm concerned."A screenshot from Baker's Sinister Planet from his companyNeolithic Software:Screenshot on the Android Market from Kevin Baker's Sinister Planet appAnd from the "pirated" Galaxy Wars:Screenshot on the Android Market from Joyworld's 'Galaxy Wars'The publisher in question is Joyworld, which at presenthas just one gameavailable on the official market, called World Wars, which has so far got more than a hundred reviews – almost all favourable. But acached version on the Androlib siteshows 14 games, which all look much the same – simple reheated versions of arcade games. They're all free. The graphs on Androlib imply that Joyworld first appeared on the market on Thursday 17 February, with the first reviews appearing on 21 February.The reviews of World Wars include one soon after its appearance which says "WTF? This is the exact same as The Wars".The Wars is a paid-for gamepublished byChillingo, based in Macclesfield. Comparing the screenshots from The Wars and from "World War", they lookextremelysimilar – notably, the backdrop of mountains and trees is identical in the screenshots – but those on The Wars is more detailed, implying that it is the original.A screenshot on the Market from The Wars:Screenshot from Android Market of The Wars, published by Chillingo. Note sprites and Menu button in lower left.And from Joyworld's World Wars:Screenshot from Android Market of Joyworld's World Wars. Note shape of sprites and Menu button.Baker says JoyWorld was selling his app under the name of "Galaxy War", and adds: "They were also selling a game Monstie Wars, under the name of Demon Defense." (Galaxy War isstill linked on the Androlib site, where it claims that it was "developed for Android by Joyworld" and that "I am the developer of this application".The developer site link given for Joyworld is invalid. The Guardian has been unable to contact the developer.Google said that code signing, which identifies an app, is enforced on the Android Market and makes it harder for would-be pirates to copy and re-upload apps. Developers are also advised to use Android tools such asProguard, which "shrinks, optimises and obfuscates your code", leading to smaller executable files that are harder to reverse engineer.Application licensingfor paid apps can also strengthen protections, Google suggests.Baker responds that "I did use Proguard, and that didn't stop my app being pirated and uploaded ... and the License Checking Service is what we use to check an app has been paid for. It simply does a request to the Market to check the status (ie has the app been paid for). This works fine, if the hacker hasn't removed that bit of code. Which is easy to do."Separately, another disgruntled developer, Rich Jones, has set up the "Android Developers' Union", demanding a bigger cut of app payments (Google presently takes 32%), better promotion that doesn't rely on the order of entry, public bug tracking, better payment options, removal appeals and better liaison, and "algorithmic transparency" about how apps appear in searches on the Market.Jones has claimed to have around 200 members; his own app, called Rapid Download!, was removed, apparently because it allowed easy downloading from sites that host pirated material – which breaks Google's Market terms.But piracy of apps, and its wider ramifications, could become a problem for the Android Market. Earlier this month, about 50 apps offered on the Android Market were found to be infected with malware that could take over – "root" – the phone once installed; theyused a privilege escalation exploit to install a further applicationwhich could send user data back to a remote server, and potentially download further apps with root privileges. Thousands of people had downloaded the apps, which were copies of existing – harmless – apps that had been repackaged to include the malware.Though Google subsequently removed the apps from the handsets using its remote "kill switch" functionality, and issued a program called "Android Market Security Tool" to remove any rootkit software from infected phones, the mobile security company LookOut warned thatthat too had been re-uploaded with malware added, apparently targeting Chinese users, who form one of the fastest-growing groups of Android owners.Alicia diVitorrio, director of marketing at Lookout, suggested: "The growing trend to conceal malware in seemingly legitimate applications is just another reminder to always use discretion when downloading applications. Pay close attention to the developer name and publisher of the application – only download applications from developers you trust or know. Always read the reviews and check the ratings. As an additional precaution, check out third-party review sites like PC World,Appoliciousor Cnet as well." (The Guardian also reviews apps for all mobile platforms on itsApps Blog.)The idea of "only downloading applications from developers you trust and know" however leaves unanswered the question of how you would "trust and know" a developer when the Android Market has more than 200,000 apps.And even Google seems to have problems deciding which developers are trustworthy, as Baker discovered a fortnight ago:"I woke up to an email from Google telling me my app has been suspended from the Market: 'This is a notification that the application, Sinister Planet with package ID com.neosoft.SinisterPlanet has been removed from Android Market due to a violation of the Developer Content Policy. Please review the Content Policies and Business and Program Policies before you create or upload additional applications. Note that repeated violations may result in a suspension of your Android Market Publisher account. For more information, or to contact us, please reply to this email, or visit the Android Market Help Center. Thanks, The Android Market Team'"I've been selling my game all this time and not one complaint or problem. It's just an arcade shooter. In fact I'm selling it in South Korea and the Korean Gaming Rating Board gave it the all-clear for 'all ages'."So of course, I thought it must be some kind of error. I've since sent about 20 emails to Google asking for clarification and not one single reply. It's like all my emails are marked as 'spam'. I've spend all this time building up my sales and ratings, now I've got to start over. I also love the part where they threaten to suspend my account for repeated violations - without ever telling me what I did!Google says that there is a link provided on the email that goes out to banned developers which lets them appeal a decision.Baker responded that "I looked through Google's official forums and there are lots of people in the same situation [as me]. Never get a response."Overall, Baker is not happy."There are currently apps called 'Throw Shit at Stuff', other apps to download illegal files, Google obviously value these apps much higher than mine, despite the fact that it had an average rating of &gt;4.5 and was in the top 5% of Arcade games. Now I've had to start over again, despite putting maybe 500 hours of work into it over the past year."Baker's conclusion? "I've got my app already approved for the Amazon Market, hopefully they can do a better job than Google. Google's 'open' policy is a joke as far as I'm concerned."
Thursday – the weekend is in sight!
A burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHidden warning message found in Samsung's Galaxy tablet &gt;&gt; ChipworksIt's possible that you won't have the technology required to read this warning in your house. Unless you have an extremely unusual house.The Internet's Least Helpful Webpages &gt;&gt; Columbia Journalism ReviewNot Apple-v-Windows debates, but content farms on topics like how to escape a tsunami.Non-Official Twitter Clients Still Widely Used &gt;&gt; Sysomos Blog"In unveiling changes to its API rules last week, Twitter's Ryan Sarver claimed that according to the company's data "90% of active Twitters users use official Twitter apps on a monthly basis." Twitter defines "official" as applications it owns and operates for the Mac, iPad, Android and Windows Phone."However.. this analysis of 23m tweets posted on 11 March shows that 42% came from non-official apps. Twitter wants that space, clearly.Japan Quake MapScroll down (with "sticky dots" on) to the magnitude 9 quake that hit last week.RIM urges BlackBerry users to turn off JavaScript &gt;&gt; InfoWorld"Research in Motion is recommending that IT departments and users disable JavaScript on their BlackBerry devices, citing a vulnerability unearthed at this year's Pwn2Own hacker challenge.&#10;"According to RIM, the vulnerability could allow a hacker to access a device's user data through the BlackBerry Browser if the user visits a "maliciously designed" website."The vulnerability only affects devices that have BlackBerry OS 6 installed, since it can only be exploited in devices that utilize the WebKit browser engine."Internet considered harmful.Broadband providers launch new traffic management transparency code &gt;&gt; Broadband Stakeholder Group"BSkyB, BT, O2, TalkTalk, Three, Virgin Media and Vodafone will today sign up to a new voluntary commitment to provide better and more easily comparable information to consumers about traffic management. Together these companies account for 90% of all fixed-line broadband customers and 60% of all mobile customers in the UK.&#10;"The new code will ensure that consumers have access to more easily comparable information about the traffic management practices of different broadband providers. For the first time, information will be provided in a common format to explain what traffic management techniques are used, when and with what impact for each broadband service currently marketed by the code's signatories."Also now includes Everything Everywhere (aka Orange + T-Mobile).So you'll be able to see how your traffic is being managed. And if you don't agree with it, you'll be able to... stay with your provider.Great documents come from great discussions &gt;&gt; Official Google Enterprise Blog"The discussion about a document is as important as the document itself, but until now, there hasn't been a great medium for this discussion to happen. Creating comments in documents is a start - but comments can be overwhelming and at times feel one-sided with no resolution.&#10;"So today we're introducing a better way to provide document feedback - discussions in Google Docs. With this feature, we want to encourage rapid and seamless discussions, help the right people participate, as well as integrate discussions with email in an intuitive way."You know what this feels like an improved version of?Google Wave.The Scariest Earthquake Is Yet to Come &gt;&gt; Newsweek"Now there have been catastrophic events at three corners of the Pacific Plate - one in the northwest, on Friday; one in the southwest, last month; one in the southeast, last year.&#10;That leaves just one corner unaffected - the northeast. And the fault line in the northeast of the Pacific Plate is the San Andreas Fault, underpinning the city of San Francisco.&#10;All of which makes the geological community very apprehensive. All know that the San Andreas Fault is due to rupture one day - it last did so in 1906, and strains have built beneath it to a barely tolerable level. To rupture again, with unimaginable consequences for the millions who live above it, some triggering event has to occur. Now three events have occurred that might all be regarded as triggering events."OK, you've got us worried now. Still, not for long: the story awaiting at the bottom of the page is: "Next: Will Grozny Be a Force in European Football?"Motorola XOOM WiFi for $599 is $200 too much &gt;&gt; ZDNet"The XOOM has a lot of hardware features that are quite powerful, but mainstream consumers don't care about specifications. They are going to look at the XOOM for $599, and the iPad 2 for $499 and make a simple decision to get the latter. Motorola is playing catchup with Apple in the tablet space, and not even matching the iPad 2 price is good enough. This XOOM should be $399 to have a chance to compete."Interestingly, in the comments it's pointed out that he's comparing the 16GB entry-level iPad with the 32GB entry-level Xoom; and that the 32GB Wi-Fi iPad costs the same amount.There follows a lot of "If you compare the same things, they're the same!" and "But you can't buy a &lt;em&gt;cheap&lt;/em&gt; Xoom!"Which is the &lt;em&gt;exact&lt;/em&gt; argument that always used to rage over Apple Macs v PCs. Except in those ones, it was the Apple proponents who'd say "If you compare the same things, they're the same!" and the PC proponents who'd say "But you can't buy a cheap one!"Google and search engine patents &gt;&gt; Steve van Dulken's Patent blog"The idea, apparently, is that if demand for a topic through a search engine exceeds what is actually available on the Web, web publishers are notified and can think about providing that content."The mind boggles. And then gets writing.Site-loading speed battle 2: Motorola Xoom vs. Apple iPad 2 &gt;&gt; CNETThe Xoom edges it in a rigorous test of.. three sites. (Well, it's 66% faster on one of the sites; the others are dead level.) The Xoom can do darker and the iPad 2 does brighter. (Thanks @emcomments for the link.)Ed Vaizey's Net neutrality roundtable &gt;&gt; Open Rights Group"[Communications minister] Ed Vaizey had the courage today to hear from companies like the BBC, Yahoo! Skype and others, some of whom are already damaged by unfair restrictions.&#10;"He also took a good step in getting Tim Berners-Lee, who set out clearly what is at stake: our ability to freely communicate and innovate..&#10;"On the other side of the debate, ISPs claimed that they need to be able to "innovate", ie do whatever they like. BT claimed that ISPs should have the right to block services if they wished. They took the view that competition will resolve any problems, so long as consumers know what they are getting.&#10;"The potential for something going terribly wrong is absolutely there. The regulator and government do not wish to intervene, for good reason; but industry is not putting forward anything that looks like meaningful self-regulation."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The inventor of the world wide web, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, has warned internet service providers (ISPs) that plans for a "two-speed" internet go against the principles that have let the net grow so rapidly in the past two decades."Best practices should also include the neutrality of the net," Berners-Lee told a round table in Westminster on Wednesday morning, convened by the communications minister Ed Vaizey. Content companies, represented by Facebook, Skype, the BBC and Yahoo, squared up to ISPs, with input from consumer representatives including the Open Rights Group, the Consumers' Association and the communications regulator Ofcom.Jim Killock of the Open Rights Group, who was representing consumer interests at the meeting, said afterwards that he was concerned about the direction the debate was going: "The potential for something going terribly wrong is absolutely there. The regulator and government do not wish to intervene, for good reason; but industry is not putting forward anything that looks like meaningful self-regulation."ISPs have for years sought to charge the BBC or customers, or both, for the huge amounts of data transferred over their networks by applications such as the iPlayer, whose popularity has exploded in the past few years. ISPs have to pay for carriage of data from BT's core network to customers, but offer unmetered services on broadband – meaning that when people's demand for data grows, ISPs can be out of pocket.But the BBC and other content providers such as YouTube have resisted calls that they should pay, on the basis that they are providing a service that allows the ISPs to find customers. In response, ISPs both in the US and Europe have mooted the idea of "two-tier" connections where some services are slower than others. Skype complained at the meeting that its service is effectively blocked on all of the mobile services in the UK except 3, meaning that carriers are violating the principle of net neutrality because they fear it will affect their call revenues.Berners-Lee told the meeting that "every customer should be able to access every service, and every service should be able to access every customer ... The web has grown so fast precisely because we have had two independent markets, one for connectivity, and the other for content and applications."Vaizey said the meeting had been "useful and productive" and that "it was important to discuss how to ensure the internet remains an open, innovative and competitive place.""Net neutrality" – in which services are treated exactly equally as they pass over the net, no matter what their source or destination – has become an increasingly vexed topic as demands on ISPs and mobile carriers have begun to outstrip capacity.ISPs have thus suggested that they should be allowed to manipulate the transfer of data, but that they would be transparent about how and what they were doing.On Monday the Broadband Stakeholder Group launcheda new traffic management transparency code, which has since been signed by the largest fixed-line and mobile carriers, including BSkyB, BT, Everything Everywhere (formerly Orange and T-Mobile), TalkTalk, 3, Virgin Media and Vodafone. Together they represent more than 90% of all fixed-line broadband and mobile customers in the UK.It pledges that "information will be provided in a common format to explain what traffic management techniques are used, when and with what impact for each broadband service currently marketed by the code's signatories."But Rob Reid, senior policy adviser at the Consumers' Association, who was among the attendees at the meeting, said that there was concern that transparency was only one half of the required commitment – because users might be tied into contracts lasting 18 months or more, meaning that if they disliked a change to the traffic management policy it would be expensive to switch to a different provider who offered one they preferred.Antony Walker, the chief executive of the Broadband Stakeholder Group, told the Guardian: "The issue of [customer] switching is critical. It's the other side of the coin to transparency. Ofcom is working on guidance on this and it is an issue that was highlighted. Everybody agrees that it is important."Adding faster systems would only work as a short-term measure to relieve congestion on networks, said Walker: "it's like adding more lanes to the M25 – it just attracts more cars. Having faster networks will mean that people will want more services using more data."But Killock said that not enough was being done yet: "In contrast with the US, where rules are being put in place through the Federal Communications Commission, or Norway where ISPs have agreed a meaningful code, our ISPs are not offering us what we and the UK economy needs. If that continues to be the case, then Ed Vaizey will find himself with the task of breaking the log jam."
I think I misunderstood the nature of this event. When I read the titleFlexible morality of user engagement and user behaviour, I thought it was referring to Guardian commenters. This, I thought, was the panel for me. As it turns out 'users' refers to all of us though, at least all of us who have been put under the observation ofDan Ariely.Ariely is a behavioural economistwho has gained a degree of renown for his theory that humans are much less rational than they believe themselves to be. The purpose of this talk was to convince the assembled audience that not only are we less rational, we're less moral too.Ariely bases this conclusion on experiments he has conducted on more than 25,000 people to find out what it would take to make them cheat. In conjunction with colleagueSarah Szalavitz, Ariely has performed a variety of tests, some involving non-functioning paper shredders, others the performing of religious sacraments, and across a variety of groups (Ariely and Szalavitz seem to do a lot of work with insurance companies, go figure). The occasion of this seminar was to reveal the results of a survey commissioned especially for SXSWi, and unfortunately for the festival it appears that while delegates would refrain from ripping off Twitter they'd be quite happy to rip off SXSW.The SXSW survey was fun, but didn't appear all that illuminating as to more general trends. I did however glean some of Ariely's bigger picture ideas:• Most people cheat a little, but very few cheat a lot.• If offered the incentive to cheat most people will not jump at the chance immediately. Keep offering them the opportunity, however, and eventually they will do so. Ariely and Szalavitz call this the 'What the hell effect'.• Across a range of areas - school, law, sex, game, tech, work - men are more likely to be dishonest than women. If, however, a woman is dishonest in one area, she is more likely to be dishonest in all areas than a man.• Ariely and Szalavitz have no evidence to suggest that people are less likely to cheat an individual than they are to cheat an institution or company. The idea of "sticking it to the man", says Ariely, is probably just a cover for our own selfishness.And so, another session ended with a sense of disappointment. This time though it wasn't at the quality of the event, but at the state of humankind. I hope I can take Ariely's observations and help them to make myself a better person. Or maybe I'll just rip them off and try to make some money.
The Obama administration is pushing for a "bill of rights" to protect the privacy of people using the internet. The proposals were outlined by Lawrence Strickling, head of the telecoms arm of the commerce department, at a hearing of the senate commerce committee in Washington DC.Politicians and privacy groups are increasingly concerned about the mass of information being acquired online by firms including Facebook, Google and Twitter. Strickling told the committee that a privacy bill of rights should outline basic levels of protection and ensure the regulators had the authority to enforce those expectations.The bill is likely to follow proposals set out by the department and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) last year. Among other proposals, it wants companies to develop "do not track" technology that would allow customers to stop firms following their online activity.The FTC said that tracking allowed companies to provide consumers with relevant ads and information but that the system lacked transparency and was not easily controlled by the consumer.Addressing the committee, FTC chairman Jon Leibowitz said: "Consumers deserve meaningful and not illusory control over what companies can do with their personal information."Some firms had complained that "do not track technology" was hard to develop and would stifle creativity on the web. Leibowitz said recent moves by Microsoft and Mozilla – maker of the Firefox browser – showed this was not the case. Leibowitz said that "if consumers have more trust on the internet, they are going to do more business on the internet, as well".The news comes as Washington toughens its stance on internet privacy. Senators John McCain and John Kerry have been working on a draft privacy bill in recent weeks. The bill would cover a wide variety of information from names and addresses to the unique IDs assigned to an individual's mobile phone or computer. The bill would require companies to ask permission before sharing a customer's information with third parties and give customers the right to see all the information a company has collected on them.Susan Grant, director of consumer protection at the Consumer Federation of America, said the extent of data tracking was "pervasive and invasive". "The vast extent of data tracking going on right now is absolutely invisible to consumers," she said. "If it's got to the point where the commerce department wants action. that must prove we've reached a critical point."
Research In Motion's BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) app is one of the key selling points for BlackBerry smartphones, but could also be one of the reasons BlackBerry app downloads growth has remained steady rather than spectacular.How so? BBM remains the main reason why many teenagers want a BlackBerry rather than an iPhone or Android handset, forming a private social network out of sight of their parents (unlike, say, Facebook).Many developers I've talked to cite BBM as a reason to be cautious about making apps for BlackBerry, suggesting that these teenagers are so keen on BBM, they're not that interested in other apps. That's one reason why there hasn't been a surge of teen-focused apps to match RIM's burgeoning popularity among younger mobile users.RIM is hoping to change this, announcing that its newBBM Social Platformis now in public beta. It looks to plumb BBM into the BlackBerry app ecosystem, so developers can build on its APIs in their own apps.Features include updating user profiles from inside an app, launching chat sessions that stay embedded within the app, pinging files back and forth, and sharing app recommendations with friends.RIM suggests that BBM will now find its way into games, social location, video, voiceover IP and commerce apps, among others. For now, BBM Social is only available to Java app developers, but will be opened up to WebWorks developers in April.BBM Social could spark a new wave of innovative BlackBerry apps, with more than 35 million active users to target – not just teens, but corporate BlackBerry users as well.Existing BlackBerry developers will be quick to catch on to the potential of BBM Social, assuming it suits their audience. However, what will be interesting will be to see whether the new platform also persuades developers, media owners and brands who've so far shunned BlackBerry App World to dive on to RIM's platform.With BBM still a BlackBerry-only service – despite speculation itmay be ported to iOS and Android– these companies will have to be confident of attracting a sizeable audience and/or revenues from a BlackBerry app built around BBM Social to justify their investment.
The free messaging and internet phone service Skype carries a number of worrying security concerns which could put users living in oppressive regimes in danger, says the advocacy group Privacy International.The free internet telephony service has around 700m users worldwide, including at least 20m in China and an unknown number in Middle Eastern countries.Among areas that Privacy International has identified as weaknesses are:• the use in the Skype interface of names rather than unique IDs, meaning that people can be impersonated in the user list;• Skype downloads are not made through a secure connection (to, say,https://skype.com), which means that other sites can masquerade as the main site and offer compromised versions of the software - something that has happened in the past in China;• the audio compression system used in Skype allows phrases to be identified with an accuracy of between 50% and 90%, even with encryption applied."If the company cannot address and resolve these issues for those who are seeking secure communications, then vulnerable users will continue to be exposed to avoidable risks," Privacy International's human rights and technology adviser Eric King said. "Skype's misleading security assurances continue to expose users around the world to unnecessary and dangerous risk. It's time for Skype to own up to the reality of its security and to take a leadership position in global communications."In response, Skype said: "Privacy International has not been in touch with us so it will take us some time to read and digest the report before we are in a position to respond. We will look into the points they have raised and will reach out to them. Skype takes these issues seriously and aims to provide users with the best possible levels of privacy and security."Skype's system offers free peer-to-peer voice-over-internet calling, in which calls are encrypted between the two ends using a proprietary system. Skype has refused to produce methods that would let other Voice over Internet Protocol companies hook into its system and does not use standard VOIP protocols. It made around $860m in revenues from call charges to landline and other phones last year.Privacy International offers a number of criticisms. On user IDs, it comments: "When you create a Skype account, you are asked to register a unique user name and password, in conjunction with an arbitrary profile name. This arbitrary profile name is what appears on your contact list, and permits people to easily impersonate others. Average users are easily tricked as a result. Does Skype intend to remedy this security flaw in its user interface?"In 2006, it emerged thata Skype partner in China was filtering text in Skype chats, which meant some words would not be displayed. Skype insisted it would not affect the security and encryption systems, but it pointed to the possibility of people interfering with the app. Additionally, the lack of SSL for downloading means thata "man in the middle" attackis possible for someone who thinks they are downloading Skype. Privacy International alleges that the Chinese government has produced a "Trojan-infected" version of Skype, "leaving users exposed to interception, impersonation and surveillance". Facebook, Twitter and Google Mail all offer default SSL connections, it points out: "Why is Skype unprepared to do so?"It also points to the VBR audio compression codec which it says is an "extremely specious and vulnerable means of protection", despite encryption –recent research at the University of North Carolinasuggests that phrases can be identified with a high degree of confidence.
Social games publisher Playfish was one of the pioneers of Facebook gaming, before being acquired by Electronic Arts in November 2009 in a deal worth up to $400m after earnouts. Now one of its co-founders has launched a new startup,Mindshapes, making apps for toddlers.The company's first app is live on Apple's App Store today:Jellytoons Toddler Skills: Bobo's Birthday Challenge. It's a collection of six mini-games designed to help develop critical thinking and fine motor skills, including shape and colour matching, counting and simple logic puzzles.Parents can track their child's progress through colourful charts, and there are virtual stickers to unlock as a reward for using the app. It's currently available for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, and costs 59p.The Mindshapes chief executive, Shukri Shammas, was one of Playfish's co-founders, and has built a team including talent from that company, as well as from Glu Mobile – the mobile games publisher that acquired Shammas' mobile games developer Macrospace in 2004.The Jellytoons charactersThe Mindshapes team also includes hires from Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, as well as animation studios, educational organisations and advertising companies."We believe that parents are being under-served by the current offerings for toddlers on the App Store," the Mindshapes director of business development, Ramez Mikdashi, tells Apps Blog. "While there are dozens of available titles, none of them combine compelling characters, engaging educational content and high-quality production like Jellytoons."Mikdashi says Mindshapes has a range of apps planned for the coming months, and is focusing on iOS for now, rather than look to roll them out immediately to other mobile platforms such as Android, or Facebook and the wider web."Given the age group that we are serving, we decided that iOS would provide a more user-friendly interface than the Web," says Mikdashi. "As for Android, we're keeping an eye on that market and will port our apps when the time is right."What's interesting about Mindshapes is its decision to focus on its own IP – the Jellytoons characters – against competition from brands like Dr Seuss, Dora the Explorer and In the Night Garden, although those apps are more focused on entertainment than education and development skills.Mindshapes' direct rivals are more likely to be North American own-IP developers such as Duck Duck Moose, Zinc Roe Games, Budge Studios, Piccolo Apps, WindUp Rocket and Little Brain (among others), along with UK studio Apps In My Pocket, currently riding high in the UK App Store chart with its abc PocketPhonics application.
The latest instalment in the Motorsport franchise depicts a racing tournament taking place in city experiencing a major natural disaster, with buildings and bridges collapsing around you as you speed through the devastation.It's an extremely unfortunate time to be releasing a game with a theme like this. However, developer Evolution Studios can't be blamed for failing to anticipate current events in Japan, and it's to Sony's credit that they've decided to hold back the game's release, saying "We're doing everything we can to be as sensitive as possible to the situation. Although the game itself is already in distribution, we are ceasing any further shipments and removing as much of the marketing materials as possible."Those who had been looking forward to the game can rest assured that the extra wait to play it will be worth it. It's a seriously fun and very over-the-top racer that should provide hours of entertainment.Players are invited to join a crew of hilariously macho thrill-seekers who get their kicks by racing a variety of vehicles (motorbikes, tucks, muscle cars and several more) around the aforementioned stricken city, on courses that go over roof tops, down into sewers and through abandoned office blocks, as the ongoing natural disaster places obstacles in your way and alters course terrains with every lap.The story mode features a two-day tournament comprising 15 races, each must be completed with a preassigned vehicle — there's no choice here, although your options are open in quick race mode and multiplayer, the latter being available as four-player split screen and up to 16 players online.Difficulty levels are well gauged; Rookie mode can be romped through pretty quickly, while Pro mode demands some serious effort to learn to learn the best routes and perfect your driving skills, and Veteran mode is strictly for the hardcore.Controls are simple – as well as the standard break and accelerator there's a boost button that can only be used in short bursts before it overheats and blows your car up. Explosions feature heavily in Motorstorm: Apocalypse – if it's not your own vehicle, it's the buildings around you or flaming helicopters falling from the sky. It's a world away from the realism of Gran Turismo, but then realism's not the point; this is all about entertainment and spectacle, and both are present in spades.It's not the best racing game around – it's not particularly unique or innovative, the "plot", as it is, in story mode isn't engaging or well told, the soundtrack is undistinguished, but its flaws are forgiven thanks to its great looks and fantastic playability.• Game reviewed on PS3
Sencha, whichrecently tested the Motorola Xoomto see how its browser compatibility stacks up for HTML5/CSS3 developers, has now got its hands on an iPad 2 to see how its browser compares in the HTML5/CSS3/Javascript field.(Sencha, as a reminder, provides open-source web application frameworks and tools to major Enterprises and independent developers - including Best Buy, Dell, Salesforce.com and Adobe.)For the iPad, being able to deal well with HTML5 and CSS3 (and having good Javascript) is essential because - as pretty much everyone in the technology field knows - it doesn't do Flash (and you canread Steve Jobs's reasoningif you need a reminder why; it's actually interesting to revisit what he said then, in April 2010, to see whether any of the points there have changed).So how does the dual-core A5 chip in the just-released (but hard to get) iPad 2 running iOS match up against Motorola's dual-core Tegra 2 chip in the just-released Xoom running Android 3.0?According to Sencha, the iPad 2 beats the Xoom handilyin pretty much all of the speed tests that they ran; intriguingly, according to Sencha's tests, the original iPad beats the Samsung Galaxy Tab on every single performance test on the WebKit browser (which they both have in common); it even matches the Xoom on a couple.Just as interesting is how the iPad 2 performs against the Xoom, since that's what developers who are trying to produce HTML5 products in the future will want to know.According to Aditya Bansod, who also carried out the testing on the Xoom, the iPad 2 scores 100/100 on theAcid3 test, although as with the Xoom there are small rendering issues, such as wrongly-coloured squares in some places.Next, browser features, investigated via a product called Modernizr:"Modernizr found support for SVG, CSS 2D transforms, CSS 3D transforms, CSS transitions, WebGL and Web Sockets. Interestingly enough, Modernizer reported that there was no Inline SVG although we were able to try a few demo sites and saw that it did in fact work, and it also reported that the browser supports WebGL, which we couldn't get to work. As we found in our earlier scorecards, just because a browser says something is there, it doesn't mean it works. All the other HTML5 features except the ones mentioned worked beautifully."Apple iPad 1 and 2, Motorola Xoom, and Samsung Galaxy Tab browser benchmarks. Source: Sencha.It's the performance testing of the browser that shows the big improvements in the iPad 2; pretty much everything on the browser front is doubled compared to the first-generation machine. There aresix demosthat you can try out your favourite HTML5-compatibie browser on (let us know how IE9 copes); Bansod says that "Without a doubt, the iPad's Mobile Safari browser has the best CSS3 support of any mobile browser we've seen."Another interesting point is embedded HTML5 audio and video:"Again, the iPad 2 nails it. Audio plays back quickly and lets you pause and resume. Video comes up quickly and streams without issue in the browser page. The iPad 2's media support is solid."But that might be moot: Apple looks unlikely to go with Google's WebM codec, which Google seems to be pushing increasingly hard over H.264 (which Apple decodes in HTML5). The jury's still out on whether H.264 in mobile HTML5 will fall down a gap between Flash on the desktop and WebM on Google properties.One question that arises from the benchmarking: given that Google Chrome is such a fast browser, and it's also based on WebKit, why does WebKit perform comparatively slowly on Android? Is it a poor Javascript implementation, or something else?
Tonight, the games industry will be celebrating the finest titles of the past year at the2011 GAME British Academy Video Games Awards. You can watch the whole event online at the Bafta website, and to get you in the mood, here are my predictions for each of the 16 categories. Feel free to provide your own suggestions, or simply mock mine.ActionThe nominees:Assassin's Creed Brotherhood, Battlefield: Bad Company 2, BioShock 2, Call of Duty: Black Ops, God of War III, Halo: ReachOur prediction:Hmm, tricky. It could be any one of these (apart from Bioshock 2, possibly – but I could live to regret writing that). I think Call of Duty could take this as it's the most breathlessly action-packed of the collection.Artistic AchievementThe nominees:Assassin's Creed Brotherhood, Call of Duty: Black Ops, God of War III, Heavy Rain, LIMBO, Mass Effect 2Our prediction:I'm hoping LIMBO as it's such a singular work, or Heavy Rain as it creates a rich atmosphere (despite some dodgy voice acting and character animation). But Assassin's Creed with its astonishing recreation of renaissance Italy may just nick it.Best GameThe nominees:Assassin's Creed BrotherhoodFIFA 11, Heavy Rain, LIMBO, Mass Effect 2, Super Mario Galaxy 2Our prediction:Ooh, tricky. Super Mario Galaxy 2 will surely be the choice for game design purists, with Assassin's Creed and Mass Effect running it close. I'll go with the plumber.FamilyThe nominees:Dance Central, Kinect Adventures, Kinect Sports, Kinectimals, LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4, Toy Story 3Our prediction:It might not be the most obvious 'family' title here, but Dance Central is the best game on the list and should 'dance' away with the award.GameplayThe nominees:Assassin's Creed Brotherhood, God of War III, Heavy Rain, LIMBO, Mass Effect 2, Super Mario Galaxy 2Our prediction:What's the difference between best game and best gameplay? I don't get it. Super Mario Galaxy 2 again, methinks.HandheldThe nominees:Cut the Rope, God of War: Ghost of Sparta, LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4, Professor Layton and the Lost Future, Sonic Colours, Super ScribblenautsOur prediction:Cut the Rope is lovely, but perhaps too 'casual'. God of War is also impressive but not really Bafta enough. I'm going for the delightful Super Scribblenauts.MultiplayerThe nominees:Assassin's Creed Brotherhood, Battlefield: Bad Company 2, Call of Duty: Black Ops, Halo: Reach, Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit, Starcraft II: Wings of LibertyOur prediction:This one depends very much on the voting criteria. Hot Pursuit adds a genuinely innovative feature with its Autolog, but the likes of Black Ops, Halo and Bad Company are much more immediate and visceral and, of course, highly populated, which is an extremely important factor. I think Treyarch will grab this one.Original MusicThe nominees:Alan Wake, Fable III, Heavy Rain, James Bond 007: Bloodstone, Mass Effect 2, Super Mario Galaxy 2Our prediction:Could go anywhere. I'll opt for Fable III.Social Network GameThe nominees:Bejeweled Blitz, Farmerama, FIFA Superstars, My Empire, Zoo Mumba, Zuma BlitzOur prediction:Bejewelled Blitz for me, though My Empire and Zoo Mumba are interesting build-a-thons.SportsThe nominees:F1 2010, FIFA 11, Football Manager 2011, Gran Turismo 5, International Cricket 2010, Pro Evolution Soccer 2011Our prediction:It's surely FIFA vs Gran Turismo, and I'm going with EA Sports (though I'd love to see FM 2011 get it).StoryThe nominees:Alan Wake, BioShock 2, Call of Duty: Black Ops, Fallout: New Vegas, Heavy Rain, Mass Effect 2Our prediction:Heavy Rain's story is the most compelling, tricksy and shocking. Also, while Fallout is interesting and Mass Effect has a bit of depth, only Quantic Dream builds the entire structure of the experience and the gameplay interaction around the narrative.StrategyThe nominees:Civilization V (2K Games/Firaxis)Fallout: New Vegas, FIFA Manager 11, Napoleon Total War, Plants vs. Zombies XBLA, Starcraft II: Wings of LibertyOur prediction:Tough one. It's got to be Starcraft II or Civ V. I'll go for Starcraft, marginally a more complete and engrossing strategy offering, and great online.Technical InnovationThe nominees:Assassin's Creed Brotherhood, Call of Duty: Black Ops, Halo: Reach, Heavy Rain, Kinectimals, Super Mario Galaxy 2Our prediction:Well, Kinectimals could well get this thanks to its clever and thoughtful Kinect implementation. But on the game content alone, I'd go for Heavy Rain again – it's the only title here that tries to do something different with interface, and it makes gorund-breaking (if not always successful) use of full motion capture.Use of AudioThe nominees:Alan Wake, Assassin's Creed BrotherhoodBattlefield: Bad Company: 2, Call of Duty: Black Ops, DJ Hero 2, LIMBOOur prediction:Alan Wake and LIMBO play with audio to create some creepy effects, but DJ Hero should get this – a lovely game that brilliantly captures the thrills of DJing.BAFTA Ones to Watch Award in association with Dare to Be DigitalThe nominees:Mush, Sculpty, TwangOur prediction:I'm hopelessly partisan here, but I think Mush should get it. Such a stylish, well-conceived and confident game from a group of students working on their very first title.GAME Award of 2010The nominees:Call of Duty: Black Ops, Dance Central, FIFA 11, Halo: Reach, Heavy Rain, LIMBO, Mass Effect 2, Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit, Red Dead Redemption, Super Mario Galaxy 2Our prediction:It's a toss up between Red Dead, Halo and Black Ops. I'll go for Red Dead as it's brilliant and voters may well respond to the fact that it is unavailable elsewhere on the night (as Rockstar did not submit the game for official voting).Now what doyouthink?
It's Wednesday – time for mid-week chat!
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle Buys Green Parrot Pictures To Boost Quality Of YouTube Uploads | paidContent"Google (NSDQ: GOOG) has purchased Green Parrot Pictures, a small Irish company that has built video quality technology used in big films, such as Lord of the Rings and Spider-Man. In a blog post, Google says it hopes to use Green Parrot's technology to improve the quality of amateur clips uploaded on YouTube."Before you say "by taking more interesting pictures?", the idea is to do colour correction and shake reduction on the fly.Best of all: an Irish company is the one acquired. Great news.Microsoft accounted for one-third of US retail software sales in 2010 &gt;&gt; Betanews"NPD released new US data early today suggesting retail software isn't going away soon. As measured in dollars, Microsoft accounted for one-third of US retail software sales last year. Office 2010 led the company's sales. As previously reported, Student and Home Edition accounts for about 85% of Office sales. Office pushed the productivity suite category to a four-year sales high.More broadly, US retail software sales, excluding PC games, grew 1% year over year to $2.42 billion in 2010. While 1 percent might appear to be tepid growth, it compares to 8% and 10% year-over-year declines in 2008 and 2009, respectively.Microsoft and four other developers -- Adobe, Apple, Intuit and Symantec -- accounted for 78% of retail software sales, up 3% from 2009."AOL Asks Us If We Can Tone It Down &gt;&gt; TechcrunchTechcrunch Not Following The AOL Way. They Will Be Reprogrammed. (And if they're not careful, have their "snark" removed, which sounds painful. All we can say is: has AOL ever read the British press?)Making Twitter more secure: HTTPS &gt;&gt; Twitter blog"Today, we're taking an important step to make it easier to manage the security of your Twitter experience – we are adding a user setting that lets you always use HTTPS when accessing Twitter.com. Using HTTPS for your favorite Internet services is particularly important when using them over unsecured WiFi connections."Would this have happened without Firesheep?A Year at Google &gt;&gt; Tim BrayThe former Sun Microsystems and XML and Atom and search engine expert on his new gig: "Android has improved the quality of my own life too, and not just by allowing me to dodge the pre-breakfast yowls. I travel a lot and work with people all over the world, and having the Internet and a bunch of handy apps stuffed in my pocket has reduced the friction immensely.&#10;"It's not just Android; Being a Google employee is, in A.D. 2011, a good thing. I've never been anywhere with such an intense focus on problems that are really important. Certain MBA-school graduates would probably sneer at the belief, widely held here, that if you solve important problems in ways that benefit large numbers of people, this will lead to good business outcomes, so don't sweat the profit/loss in advance.&#10;"On top of which, if I stand for anything it's for the Internet; and almost any investment that increases the usefulness of the Net, and the time people spend there, is likely to have positive ROI for Google."Apple's Role in Japan during the Tohoku Earthquake &gt;&gt; Kevin Rose bloggThe Digg founder gets an email from a friend in Japan: "You know how in disaster movies, people on the street gather around electronic shops that have TVs in the display windows so they can stay informed with what is going on? In this digital age, that's what the Tokyo Apple stores became. Staff brought out surge protectors and extension cords with 10s of iOS device adapters so people could charge their phones &amp; pads and contact their loved ones. Even after we finally had to close 10pm, crowds of people huddled in front of our stores to use the wifi into the night, as it was still the only way to get access to the outside world."It's said that civilisation is a veneer only three solid meals thick. These days, you could add: and a phone charge deep.Why the Department of Work &amp; Pensions cancelled £300m Fujitsu contract &gt;&gt; Computer WeeklyWhy? Because Fujitsu never gave the DWP confidence in its ability to manage the transition. "The DWP's decision to cancel a £300m-plus contract with Fujitsu to provide desktop support came as a shock but according to a source close to the deal the termination has been on the cards for six months. "The deal was signed in February last year and has been canned before any Fujitsu work has been done. Incumbent HP will continue to provide the services. "The contract would have seen Fujitsu provide support and services to 140,000 desktops across the UK as part of a £300m-plus deal. It was planning to use thin client technology to cut the DWP's desktop IT costs."Google releases WebM video plug-in for IE9 &gt;&gt; CNET News"In an effort to bring its Web video technology to a browser that doesn't support it, Google has released anIE9 plug-in to play WebM video.&#10;"The move won't bring an end to the industry scuffle over the best way to build video into the Web, but it will mean that allies behind Google's preferred mechanism will be able to reach beyond the three browsers that support WebM today, Google's Chrome, Opera Software's Opera, and Mozilla's Firefox."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The videogame Bafta award ceremony is tomorrow night – not a set of awards that's likely to make the front pages, or even the arts pages, even though videogames are now the biggest entertainment industry in the world. But this year's frontrunner for best game –Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood– has used this position under the cultural radar to good effect, allowing it to include an electrifying narrative about modern-day politics.AC:B leads the Bafta field with seven nominations. The game has sold more than 6.5 million copies – the Assassin's Creed series has sold more than 26 million. But where AC:B really stands out is in the quality and intelligence of the writing.Set in Renaissance Rome, it goes out of its way to educate about the historical period and setting. For example, Machiavelli appears and discusses his philosophical concept of "virtu" – the qualities needed to be a leader – with the hero Ezio. And even though the characterisation of Caterina Sforza, the "tiger of Forli", daughter of the Duke  of Milan, is a little thin, her placement – imprisoned in the Castel Sant'Angelo by the Borgias – is perfectly historically accurate. The game has inspired many players to learn more about Renaissance Italy and  for an action adventure game,  a genre often condemned in  the mainstream press as "mindless", AC:B is literate and often thoughtful.The game also contains a hidden modern-day story that is even more sharply written. Fragments of fictional memos, audio recordings and letters suggest that key members of the US government – including former president George W Bush and former vice-president Dick Cheney – deliberately manipulated the American people using consumer capitalism and invented wars.The story plays out as a dramatised version of Shock Doctrine for the videogame player, or an extreme version of the governmental machinations suggested by Adam Curtis's documentary The Century of the Self. AC:B writer Jeffrey Yohalem previously worked on The Daily Show, the satirical leftwing US news programme credited with getting a younger audience interested in politics.Yohalem has said he wanted to make "a videogame that was talking about modern-day politics, instead of all these cheesy stories that pretend to be about reality but use fake names in different time periods". AC:B makes a series of serious political points. It's perhaps the first, certainly the most mainstream, videogame to do so, but one hopes it won't be the last.
If Rupert Murdoch's $30m iPad newspaper the Daily is "like using Real Player in 1997", what hope does the rest of the industry have?For a newspaper business largely treading water, Apple went some way to inventing the future with its market-leading tablet device. But for those not operating in the media stratosphere, the novelty is fading fast.Will news apps reinvent the future of journalism? "Oh god, I hope not," groans Aron Pilhofer, the New York Times' interactive editor."I'm sceptical about apps generally. It takes you out of the web. You come in to this isolated, one-person web. That's so anti where we're headed that I have a problem with it," hetold the SXSW conference on Monday.Pilhofer, whofounded the new journalism collective Hacks/Hackers, describes himself as a "staunch curmudgeon" when it comes to mobile apps. A philosophy which appears to put him at odds with iPad-clutching bosses."At the New York Times this is a zero-sum game. We don't have infinite resources," he said. "The iPad is not like the web or print, it is its own thing and should be treated differently and I don't think we're taking advantage of that."The News York Times isexpectedto release its new subscription-based iPad app within weeks, when plans to charge for some content on its website are unveiled.Although native apps tailored for the device had "some benefits," Pihofer said, the "killer app" on every handset is the browser. "There's so little you cannot do with offline storage in the browser environment that to me [the iPad] is almost not worth the investment."Community is a place where the web is your friend and the app is not. If you consider community to be part of the answer to the future of news then going into the partially-stilted environment of the application walks away from that."Khoi Vinh, the digital publishing design guru formerly of the New York Times, said on Saturday that the current generation of siloed news apps represent a mere footnote in the future of online reading. The future, he argued, is in the multiplatform browser - publishing's "natural home".Conde Nast's "undoubtedly expensive" headlong rush into iPad apps was a "fundamental misunderstanding" online reading, Vinh said.(Speaking of Conde Nast, Andrew Siegal, the senior vice president of strategy at its parent company Advance Publications, said on Sunday that Steve Jobs "controls the world" of digital publishing. "Entire cities are trembling in terror at what Apple's doing," he added, somewhat untimely.)For Vinh, innovative appslike Flipboardare a "step forward" for the industry and "those that get it right will go down this route". Shall we hold our breath?
With SXSW being perhaps the world's largest celebration of geek culture, we can't really be surprised that there's a whole lot of "awesome" going around. You hear it on the streets of Austin, the corridors of the Convention Centre and throughout the keynote speeches. "Chief ninja" ofSCVNGRSeth Priebatschdescribed about six different things as "awesome" during his big hour, and elsewhere everything from coffee, T-shirts, shoes and stickers are all variously described with an enthusiastic drop of the "a-bomb".Awesome is not a phenomenon exclusive to Austin or even, given the increasing international influence of American tech geek culture, the US. The word is even ubiquitous in the good ol' UK, where people have traditionally been predisposed to describing things they like with adjectives no stronger than "lovely". Even the Guardian's own jobs site pimps itself and its "awesome jobs", for goodness' sake.It may be the contemporary superlative of choice, but awesome has a long history. It emerged in the late 16th century, but was almost the antithesis of what it stands for today, deriving from a word more commonly used to describe the fear of God. Hippies, as with many other things, can take the blame for the change of meaning, popularising "awesome" as another word for cool. Though when the word was used to describe psychedelic drug experiences it may have reverted to its original meaning. Bill and Ted can also take a share of the blame for liberal use of awesome throughout their Excellent Adventure.Awesome should be reserved for stunning natural phenomenon – the Grand Canyon or the aurora borealis. It could also be used to describe something overwhelming, terrifying and destructive, like the earthquake in Japan – although you'd get a hostile reception trying to describe that as "awesome" right now. Language is supposed to be flexible, but awesome has been wrung dry. When something truly awesome does happen, we won't have a word left for it.So the next time you're formulating that enthusiastic sentence and can feel an awesome sneaking up, would "lovely" do instead?
"I hate this term, breaking the glass ceiling!" says Marylene Delbourg-Delphis, her emphatic, thick French accent as bold as her huge, Edna Mode-style glasses. "It implies that women will be walking around with pieces of glass all over their heads!" The silicon valley native and "serial entrepreneur", as described at the 2010 Open World Forum, is delivering the opening address to a room full of women who may well be confused by her disgust; the panel they've come to is called Breaking the Glass Ceiling – Fearless Women Entrepreneurs. But Delbourg-Delphis makes a good point; "The whole point of being fearless is to get out of the house and look up to the sky. Forget the ceiling."Alongside Amita Paul, CEO of Objective Marketer, Delbourg-Delphis is attempting to create a manifesto for the fearless female in business, and the first thing to be addressed is fear itself.  "I've been an entrepreneur for 20 years and what I've learned is that fear will always be there, do it anyway!"  says one audience member. So Paul kicks off the manifesto – which she's writing on a board as the session progresses – with "I CAN be afraid". Next up is the suggestion that "I don't have all the answers" and that follows on to the third point of the manifesto, "Ask for help."Lauren Fritsch, founder of the start-up lifeshifted.com, raises her hand to say: "I market to women as a business coach and what I find is that men come to me with a specific point they want help with, but the women who come to me as clients are much more concerned about balance."Fritsch mentions reading about a woman who created a tech-based government website, operating in two spheres – technology and politics – traditionally dominated by men. "Her day-to-day life sounded hellish to me," she says. "We need to rethink what success is, because success is different for a male CEO and a female CEO.""Define Success" goes on the manifesto. It all begins to resemble something like a self-help group; words such as confidence and belief are repeated across the room, with attendees nodding in agreement that women need to be comfortable in their own skin and secure in their differences from men.That therapeutic angle is interesting, because discussion among the 40-plus attendees (two of whom are male) whose ages range from early twenties to middle age,  quickly moves on to discussing the nature of how women should help each other. Experiences vary, but all the attendees wish for more support among their fellow female entrepreneurs.It's an idea which Adriana Gascoigne has tapped into with her website girltech.com. "One of the things we wish to do is help women unleash their potential and they often need encouragement to do so," she explains at a Female Entrepreneurs meet-up that takes place earlier in the day. "Whether it's a woman within a company seeking a pay rise or someone starting up her own marketing service, more than anything, what they're looking for is support from other women."The attendees today decide that they should form an alliance, and the working title is mooted as the Relentless Women of SXSW. It has a forceful ring to it, and appropriate given that the number of women attending SXSW is rising every year. Gascoigne, who has attended SXSW four years running, says the presence of women this year is visibly larger than ever before. It's an encouraging sign that at a conference which covers a trio of industries dominated by men – interactive, film and music – women are finding the time to band together in an effort to continue this trend. A relentless drive is what kept the wonderfully dramatic Delbourg-Delphis  going when she was starting out. "An older colleague said to me: 'You're never going to succeed'; I was in tears. Then I went home and saw my make-up had smeared all over my face, and had stained my Chanel shirt," she laughs. "At that moment I stop crying and I decide to keep going, no matter what."
Plenty of apps have soared up Apple's App Store charts, but relatively few of them stick around for the long term. One of the UK's success stories isTube Exits, launched by Lance Stewart in June 2009 as a way for London tube users to figure out which carriage to board to ensure a speedy station exit at their destination.A niche? Of course, but with more than 100,000 users, it's been a profitable one for Stewart. "It was my first app," he says. "I was the ordinary guy on the street who had an app idea and managed to bring it to life. On the back of its success, I've formed a little company called Wavana with four of us working full-time on creating apps now."Tube Exits has since been launched for the Berlin and Paris metro systems, with Hong Kong, Madrid, Barcelona and Rome to come. The original version has also been nominated for an award inthe Carphone Warehouse Appys– a new event that aims to celebrate the most useful and innovative mobile apps.Tube Exits developer Lance StewartTube Exits has always been a paid app – it currently costs 59p in the UK App Store – although that's due to necessity rather than a deliberate strategy. With most people using it below ground and out of network reception, pulling in mobile ads or selling in-app content aren't really viable."We've had a few approaches from businesses who want to sponsor the app in different ways, but it's not a huge priority right now," he says, although Wavana is planning to test Apple's iAds in another app called Fitness Club, thanks to its above-ground focus.Stewart thinks Tube Exits' longevity is due to it solving a genuine problem on the part of its users, rather than simply being a novelty app, like many of the App Store chart hits when it was first released."I wanted to make apps that people would engage with a lot because they were genuinely useful," he says. "The apps with longevity are the ones that provide some real key features, and package them up to provide a user experience so much better than doing it on a telephone or website. The apps I see that have a lot of success focus on a key feature and do it really well."It's noticeable that thus far, Tube Exits has been mainly an iPhone thing, although Wavana has developed versions for Vodafone 360 and O2's app store too. Why hasn't it got a bigger push across non-Apple smartphones, though?"We would love to get it out on all platforms, but it's a function of time," he says. "We have yet to see from a pure developer viewpoint where the opportunity is. For us to develop on Android will take a period of time. We'd love to do it, but it's about how we can reprioritise knowing that a lot of people on Android don't like to pay for their apps."While Wavana considers this question, there's an award to win, albeit against stiff competition. Tube Exits is up against Dragon Dictation, Sky+, ShopSavvy and Google Maps in the Appys' Time Saver category."It's great to see our name up there against the likes of Google and Sky," he says. "We're certainly the underdog, but it just goes to show that you can bring an idea to life and go up against the big guys."
It takes a brave man indeed to stand up in a lecture hall full of people and say "I was incontinent, and I was impotent." But that's how Jeff Jarvis chose to make his point aboutthe benefits of publicness over privacy during a fascinating talkat SXSW's#publicpartssession.Jarvis was talking abouthis own experience after he was diagnosed with prostate cancer. On receiving the terrifying news his first urge, he says, was to share it with his online readership (see the 'penis post', described by Jarvis himself as the "very definition of too much information"). The reaction to Jarvis's decision to go public with this info was a whole wave of advice, useful links and comforting stories. This proved that his initial urge was right – he had gained from sharing.Now, Jarvis doesn't believe in publicness at all costs. He illustrated this by explaining how he withheld the information regarding his cancer until he could locate his son and tell him the news personally first. But Jarvis passionately believes that we lose out on all sorts of opportunities through exaggerated fears about the dangers of making things public."If we only focus on the bad things, we might as well join Bin Laden in the caves," he said, during one inspiring passage. "We're robbing our own lives of all these benefits."When Jarvis uploaded his 'penis post' he received an incredibly informative message that detailed everything from what surgery would be like to a description of how this might affect his orgasms. Sharing had helped Jarvis, but it had also helped others – one reader told him that he got a PSA test after reading the blog.It got me thinking, not least because I'd been advised by a doctor to get checked out for prostate cancer myself a few weeks earlier. It would be highly unlikely for someone my age to be diagnosed with prostate cancer, but the doctor had cause for concern and I couldn't help getting a bit worried (in the end it was nothing). I chose not to share this information with anyone at the time, to keep it private – partly out of fear and partly out of not wanting anyone to know where my local GP's hand had been! Listening to Jarvis made these fears seem rather pathetic and I'm not sure being so private was a smart move – I could have done with some reassurance at the time. And if nothing else, describing the rather intrusive, ahem, "examination" might have got me a few laughs …
This week's Guardian technology podcast comes to you from the South by Southwest interactive festival in Austin, Texas.Every year, the geeks descend on this university town in central Texas, and now, on its 18th anniversary, the SXSW event is far bigger than ever. There are 20,000 people here for this show alone, with 25 tracks of content taking place in venues throughout the city, tackling topics as varied as the invisible game layer, the future of journalism, how to take code to the next level, and how to create a personal cult. Mostly, it seems to be about being "awesome" and "how to rock" things, if you go by the titles on the schedule.In this programme Jemima Kiss meets some of the many Brits in town here for business. We find out what really is unique about the web, and we'll get designer, performer and digital joy-maker Ze Frank's views on how SXSW has evolved over the years.Tim Wu reflects on previous revolutions in communications, such as the telephone and radio, and offers some thoughts on the future of the internet and net neutrality.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
You can't say you weren't warned - in September last year we told you howMicrosoft was giving up on Live Spaces, its personal blog system.Now though the final date is imminent: from Wednesday Microsoft will begin deleting the content too. Anyone who hasn't moved their blog over to Wordpress.com will never see it again.At the time the move looked like a dramatic admission of defeat in a key cloud area by Microsoft, which had said that Spaces had 7m bloggers and 300m visitors. And it still looks like that.There's no obvious sign however that huge numbers of Live Spaces bloggers have headed over to Wordpress.com; one would have thought that if all 7m had picked up their bags and headed over, then you'd be hearing Wordpress trumpeting it on its blog. No such, though.Possible conclusion: tons of those 7m were spam, or dead, and either way Microsoft didn't want the hassle of maintaining them when it could better focus its cloud efforts on paying customers. It doesn't want or need to follow Google's AdSense model (which sells ads against page content); it wants to go after people who need cloud services and will pay for them.However if you are a living breathing human being, have a Live Spaces blog (that you'd forgotten about) and want to move it to Wordpress.com, you can find out how at theWindows Live Spaces Help Centre.
Microsoft has launched IE9, the newest version of its web browser which it hopes will be able to rebuild market share lost to rivals such as Firefox and Google's Chrome.The program isavailable for download now.However, IE9 will not be available for the millions of people still using Windows XP – which includes a very substantial number in the Far East who will have pirated copies of XP and are likely to be using outdated copies of IE6, whichMicrosoft is publicly asking people to stop using.Windows XP is still the most widely used version of Windows, according tobrowser metrics datawhich suggests that it makes up 41% of machines accessing a variety of web pages, compared to 26% for Windows 7 and 14.5% for Vista – though their combined share is very slightly higher than that of XP.IE9 only works on the newer Windows Vista and Windows 7. It marks Microsoft's latest effort to reverse the trend in which users who download specific browsers, rather than using the defaults which come on their machines, are choosing the Mozilla and Google rivals, which now between them have more than 25% of browser market shareaccording to NetMarketshare, which puts the newer IE8 at just under 35%, with IE6 on 11.3% and the now-deprecated IE7 on 8%. Apple's Safari has just under 4%, which "other" browsers make up 15%; a number of those will re-use the layout engine of Internet Explorer on a PC.Among the aspects that Microsoft is touting in the new browser are increased speed by using hardware acceleration from graphics cards, enhanced privacy via an anti-tracking feature, HTML5 and CSS3 support and faster Javascript performance: tests against WebKit's SunSpider suggest it is now as fast as Chrome or Firefox.The HTML5 support, along with a declararation earlier by Microsoft that it will not be including support for Google's WebM video codec, seems to imply that Microsoft was aligning itself with Apple by backing the H.264 codec for video playback in HTML5.A number of UK sites have worked with Microsoft to offer content that will be showcased in IE9, including the British Fashion Council, ESPN, Film4oD and Sky News. National Rail had built an HTML5 journey planner and departure board application which runs off the pinned icon on the taskbar.In its beta phase IE9 was downloaded 40m times, and shows has having a 2% share on Windows 7 machines.The company said ahead of the launch that IE9does not include a security flaw from IE8that was exploited at the recent Pwn2Own hacker conference, which allowed "remote code execution" – in effect, letting the user's machine be taken over.However Which? magazinesays that users should be waryof the anti-tracking system, called Tracking Protection Lists (TPPLs), which blocks content, such as Flash cookies, web beacons (tiny 1x1 pixel "images" that link back to a server) and images, from tracking web browsing behaviour.Which? found a flaw: "when a user has downloaded multiple TPLs, all of the rules from all of the TPLs are grouped together into a single list where an 'allow' takes precedence over a 'block'. For example, a consumer may choose to install two TPLs: one by EasyList and one by TRUSTe. The EasyList TPL might 'block' web beacons, whereas the TRUSTe TPL might 'allow' them. In this case, the web beacons would be 'allowed'."Dr Rob Reid, a senior Which? policy adviser, said: "We're disappointed with the way these lists work, and feel consumers who install multiple lists could be left with a false sense of security."Meanwhile, Firefox is working through a series of betas of version 4, and earlier this month made thefirst "release candidate" available for downloadfor Windows, Mac and Linux – and will be available for Windows XP.
Biz Stone, co-founder of Twitter, is to join the Huffington Post as the new media firm adds big names to its roster following its $315m (£196m) takeover by AOL.Stone, who will keep his job at Twitter, will act as "strategic adviser for social impact" and will work across the Huffington Post Media Group and the rest of AOL's assets. The company said Stone would be working to develop a platform to help people share their work in their local community. He will also create a video series about people and companies at the "forefront of philanthropy and corporate responsibility".The news comes days after AOL announced it will cut 900 jobs, 20% of its workforce, as it struggles to compete for advertising with Google and Facebook and continues to lose paying subscribers. The sackings include 200 US jobs in content production.Last month AOL announced a 26% drop in revenues as its dial-up internet access business continues to decline and ad sales failed to make up the difference. Advertising revenue fell 29% in the last reported quarter compared to a 30% rise at Google. Chief executive Tim Armstrong said 2011 would be "the year we stop working on the turnaround and start working on the comeback".Armstrong has said his strategy is to concentrate on content andin February he made his boldest move to date buying the Huffington Post. Its founder Arianna Huffington now heads all of AOL's editorial operations and has already moved to recruit bigger names. Eleven new recruits were announced this week including former New York Times and Los Angeles Times editor John Montorio, who will be culture and entertainment editor, and Howard Fineman, a former analyst for NBC and MSNBC, who will become editorial director of the group.Stone said: "The definition of success is changing as we begin to understand the value of helping others. Arianna and Tim share my vision for aligning corporate resources toward meaningful change." He said his goal in teaming up with AOL was to "rally companies to think about new ways of doing business, share best practices, and strive for positive impact at all levels – from global to local."Huffington said: "Since one of our key goals is to explore and spotlight innovative ways that our company – as well as others – can do good, I'm thrilled that Biz Stone will be our strategic partner in this important endeavour."
Technology regulation is notoriously tricky. It's always tempting to say that certain devices – say, firearms – should be illegal or restricted, and license everyone who can manufacture them to ensure compliance. This works, up to a point. But this kind of regulation works best where the gizmos being regulated are difficult and/or expensive to make. Things that you can knock up in your sitting room or buy five for a pound in a blister pack by the newsagent's till are not good candidates for this: we don't try to regulate bleach and ammonia cleaners, even though mixing them together makes a potentially fatal poison gas. Indeed, where we try to regulate general-purpose objects as though they were special and tricky, all kinds of bad, weird stuff happens, as with Britain's failing war on knives, which makes it a very tricky business for a young apprentice chef or model-maker to buy and transport the perfectly reasonable blade she legitimately needs, while still not making a dent in actual knife crime.Historically, we've thought of computers as being expensive, complex things, and thus a good candidate for regulation. After all, there was a time not so long ago when you could say: "We will regulate a ballistics computer, but not a computer used in medical diagnostics or video games." But increasingly – and inevitably – all computing devices are composed of the same fundamental commodity components. Supercomputers are likely to be built out of stacks of the same sort of PC you've got on your desk; as are video game systems, hearing aids, personal stereos, automobile control systems, laser printers, phones and tablet PCs. Each of these have approximately the same guts, simply repackaged in a way that makes them better at doing one job than others.But their fundamental similarity means that a regulation you apply to one device will apply to every device that has a general-purpose computer at its heart.Networks have also undergone this shift from specific to general: where we once maintained separate devices and infrastructure for different kinds of communications (voice, emergency services, faxes, television), now it's increasingly the case that all these uses are mere applications running on the internet.This generalisation has lots going for it: not least that an investment in faster internet access or more robust computers for one application (say, medical telemetry or commercial video encoding) ends up benefiting all those other applications that thrive on general-purpose computers and networks. This has created an era of computation, in which people with all sorts of problems try to find ways to use computation to make them more tractable – hence the enormous rush to use number-crunching in fields as diverse as psychology and genomics, stock-trading and music recommendation.The dark corollary of this is that anything that harms general-purpose computers and networks has the knock-on effect of undermining all the disciplines that thrive on them. For example, the entertainment industries have clamoured for years to extend copyright liability to "intermediaries" — that is, to make services such as YouTube liable if they allow a user to post infringing material. There's not really any way that Google (YouTube's owner) could police YouTube as thoroughly as litigants such as Viacom have demanded – more than 29 hours of video are uploaded to YouTube every minute, more than all the copyright experts in the world could hope to examine in detail. Practically speaking, the only way YouTube could rise to the standard sought by Viacom would be to offload the cost of confirming copyright status to uploaders – either by requiring them to pay a fee to have their material vetted by YouTube's experts, or to present some paid expert's assurance that the material won't infringe copyright. Both of these would "solve" the problem of YouTube's enormous volume of video by reducing it to a trickle represented by those with the money to pay for copyright clearance before their video goes live.But of course, only a tiny fraction of YouTube's volume has anything to do with the entertainment industries' products. The vast bulk is entirely outside that narrow interest – it's shaky cameraphone shots of police atrocities in the Middle East, exuberant student films, footage of technical conference presentations, and personal opinion and social messages produced by and for small groups of friends. The negative impact of any copyright enforcement that raises the bar to using YouTube will be felt by everyone who uses YouTube – not just pirates.And if intermediary liability is increased – either through lawsuits against YouTube, laws such as the Digital Economy Act, or secretive treaties such as theAnti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreementand Transpacific Partnership agreement – then every entity that hosts or carries content will be at risk. Universities will have to vet their student papers for copyright infringement before allowing academic material to see the light of day. Should intermediary liability extend to monitoring and barring "bad" network traffic, then every institution that provides network access, including private companies and schools, would have to invest in "traffic management" spyware that keeps users under surveillance, making this capacity standard in networking equipment. It would also generate automatic suspicion for those who use encryption and proxies to ensure the privacy and integrity of their communications, be they whistleblowers, revolutionaries in autocratic states, gay teens who don't want to out themselves to their parents or abused wives who don't want to reveal that they are researching shelters for battered women.But if there's one thing that the filesharing wars have taught us, it's that this sort of prohibition is remarkably ineffective at stopping people who really want to get through. Even the staunchest defendants of anti-copying technology and network blocks will tell you that they are intended as "speed bumps" that will discourage casual filesharers, without having any noticeable effect on people who really want to get past them.Despite the admitted failure of this model, the calls to use it are on the increase. The traditional bogeymen of the information age – pornographers, pirates, mafias and terrorists – now head a list of pretences for locking down the information society.Today's business world is full of companies that have built their fortunes on the idea of designing a computer that can only run certain approved programs, from iPhones to PlayStations. Operating system vendors such as Apple and Microsoft are building in digital rights management – programs that run even when the user doesn't want them, that users can't inspect or remove – at the bottom layer of the software stack. Video game companies such as Blizzard bundle popular offerings such as World of Warcraft with spyware that can examine and tamper with every file on the player's computer, in the name of preventing cheaters.Software-defined radios are already challenging the traditional regulatory model for radio emitters: formerly, a regulator would demand that a manufacturer limit the emissions from a radio to certain bands and power. Now, software-based radios that are sold as, say, Wi-Fi cards, can be reprogrammed to use bands reserved for emergency services or air-traffic control. No one's quite sure what to do about this – software radios are built out of commodity components, the sort of thing that would be nearly as expensive and impractical to regulate as a paper clip.The growing realm of 3D printing will generate all sorts of new problems in search of solutions. From sex toys (banned in some southern US states) to kits to modify semi-automatic guns and render them automatic, new groups of would-be network/device cops will crop up every day. The list of problematic 3D objects is practically endless: anatomically correct Barbie torsos that can fit the standard head and limbs; keys for high-security locks; patented gizmos; even objects held sacred by indigenous people.Around the corner are the bio-printers that can output organisms, pharmaceutical compounds, and biological material. The potential for these devices is enormous, but so are the problems, from patent infringement to bioweapons (inadvertent and deliberate).The thing is, we'll be no more effective at building a bio-printer or a 3D printer or a software radio that can only execute certain programs than we were at building a PC that won't copy a copyrighted song. The flexibility of the universal computer and the universal network is fundamental and non-negotiable. Building a computer that can run every program is infinitely simpler than building a computer that can run any program except for naughty ones. Building a network that can carry every packet is infinitely simpler than building a network that carries all traffic except for the traffic you wish it wouldn't carry.These are not moral statements, they're technical realities. There are plenty of things I hope people don't do with their computers, from outputting superbugs to interfering with my TV reception (or the reception on the radio in the ambulance that's rushing to scrape me off the pavement somewhere).It's because the potential for harm is so great that we can't afford to put our faith in magic computer-controlling technology. By the time I need a hearing aid or an artificial joint, I fully expect it to include one or more networked, general-purpose computers. I don't want things in my body that are designed to run code against my wishes, or to prevent me from changing the programs that run on them. I don't want my relationships with my family and friends and colleagues moderated by a network that has been redesigned to spy on and suppress the "wrong" sort of speech.Because even though these technologies won't stop dedicated bad guys, pirates or klutzes, they will be beyond the ability of many ordinary people to control. Which means that increasingly, our technological infrastructure will be designed to enforce policy against its users, without its users' consent or even knowledge. Even features added with the best of intentions are liable to put users at risk at some time in the future: mobile phones today are often designed with anti-theft measures like remote kill-switches or the ability to covertly read the device's camera, GPS or microphone; Android devices are designed so that Google can remove malicious software remotely; Kindles are designed so that Amazon can delete ebooks if they are found to breach copyright.For reasons good and bad, the things we rely on for our jobs, our political organising, our family affairs, our social lives and our cultural transactions are being rebuilt to control us and spy on us.For each of these control measures, the question isn't whether they'll fail, but when they will, and who will hijack their capabilities. Virus writers have already noticed that their malicious software can get a free ride if it targets digital rights management technology that hides itself from the operating system. Will it be an identity thief next? A dodgy "private investigator" who wants to read an MP's email over her shoulder? A totalitarian government that wants to broadcast the kill-signal to phones being used to organise mass demonstrations?I believe that we can find creative answers to our legitimate regulatory problems – for example, we could create software radio utilities that turn every device into part of a grid that detects malicious or badly configured radio devices, to help regulators catch and shut down bad actors. But we'll only arrive at those solutions once we stop reflexively demanding limits on the general functionality of a PC and a network – and the sooner we do, the sooner we'll legimitise a technology world whose first rule is "Obey your owner" and whose second rule is "Protect your owner's interests".
There are plenty of very good games that slip under the radar before eventually being accorded cult-classic status, but Yakuza is the only franchise I can think of that has been awarded that dubious distinction. Perhaps Sega's Japanese gangster series fell victim (at least outside Japan) to the company's withdrawal from the console race, which in turn decimated a once-healthy fan-boy culture that revered no game more than the rambling, evocative Shenmue. The Yakuza games are uncannily Shenmue-like, which is unsurprising given they were developed by much of the Shenmue team.If you're one of the few who played Yakuza 3, you'll find Yakuza 4 agreeably familiar. Again, it's an action-RPG, set predominantly in an ache-inducingly evocative rendition of modern Tokyo through which you wander, performing often offbeat plot-forwarding missions and fighting random thugs. There's a stupendously convoluted plot examining the minutiae of yakuza life and its codes of honour, which unfolds in the form of long cut scenes. So, yes, it doesn't exactly represent the state of modern gaming art – but even those cut scenes are so lovingly crafted that you won't resent watching them.Yakuza 4 does improve on Yakuza 3 in some crucial areas. It puts you at the controls of four characters, at first separately, although they come together at the end and you can switch between them. The combat has been simplified slightly (it was a bit fiddly), and there's a much more sensible means of upgrading your characters' abilities. Each character has a different fighting style, which sucks you deeper into the ins and outs of the fighting system. The familiar environs of Kamurocho – certain to evoke a nostalgic yearning among those who have spent any time in Tokyo – have been opened up slightly, with rooftops and underground malls now accessible. There's even more to do when you just bimble around, GTA-style: the bizarre phone-photography Revelations are back, and you can while away hours in games arcades or gambling dens.There are a couple of dodgy aspects, though. Yakuza 4 prides itself on conforming to Japanese ways which just might be a tad out of step with political correctness in the 21st century.For example, the first character you play, apparently philanthropic money-lender Shun Akiyama, owns a hostess bar, so you must negotiate a sub-plot in which you turn a girl into a money-spinning hostess. At least that has the decency to be the dullest part of the game.Nevertheless, Yakuza 4's production values are through the roof, its plot is gripping and quirky, it's often very funny indeed, and it would undoubtedly sell in millions if it was published by Rockstar rather than Sega.It's a hidden gem which you won't find advertised on TV or pushed at you via the medium of a giant marketing budget, and it might just cause those who once owned Dreamcasts or frequented the arcades to shed a tear or two.
It is little more than a month since Google accused Bing of "copying" and "stealing" its search results.The hope, therefore, was that the two net giants would thrash out their issues on stage at SXSWi on Monday afternoon.It wasn't to be. What we actually got was the back-slapping stageplay of the pairs' webmaster forums. (Which are, at the best of times, necessarily dry.)The Atlantic tried valiantly to inject some rambunctiousness into proceedings with its Smackdown report. Google won 5-4, proving how convivial the affair actually was.Nevertheless, the main message from the Google and Q&amp;A was – predictably – that content is still king.Matt Cutts, Google's anti-spam demagogue, said that the "litmus test" for how sites appear in its search results is: "What interesting thing have I created in the last 30 days? What original insight have I added, something that's not pure opinion?"Duane Forrester, Bing's webmaster tools chief, concurred. His two top tips for webmasters: "Deep content and keyword research"."I need to stress that we set the quality bar very high at Bing," said Forrester, somewhat on the back foot."When looking to make sure good useful piece of content there, if even a small niche query is buried in thread of conversation then we may be saying this page doesn't tell us about much, so it's not kept in our index all the time."Asked how Google decides how severely to punish sites that have breached its PageRank policy, Cutts said it was "roughly proportionate" to how long the offending had been going on."If it's hidden text, it's usually 30 days. If it's a hacked site it may be 30 days but we're happy to let you back in faster if you can prove that the malware is cleaned."On the relative merits of social search, through sites such as Del.icio.us and Reddit, Cutts said there was "always going to be a trade-off between being really comprehensive or relevant [compared to social bookmarking search]".Next time, eh?
Yesterday, we talked to Bafta video game committee members Ray Maguire, head of Sony Computer Entertainment UK, and Ian Livingstone, life president of Square Enix, about the state of the games business, the polarisation of the industry and the lack of media attention for interactive entertainment.Today, a day before theGAME British Academy Video Games Awards, we look at innovation, education and the fragile future of the sector...Where are the interesting things happening in the games industry at the moment? What are the emerging trends?Ian Livingstone:From a purely industry point of view, rather than my personal position, all the excitement seems to be happening in the online space. With the wide penetration of broadband, there's never been a better time for content creators to reach a large audience. There's been a major growth in the number of small development teams and with that comes huge creativity, because they don't have to go through a process – via publishers, via retailers, via people who don't know as much about games as they do – to get to the public. They can serve the content they want to create, to consumers who are interested. The fact thatMinecraftwon a lot of rewards atGDCshows what one person can do – it's a very innovative title and he sold a million copies at ten dollars a piece. Through traditional channels, that wouldn't have happened. We're going to see a lot more of that. Even if these people only sell one copy, they have the pride and desire to carry on. There's never been a better time for creativity to flourish.RM:At the other end of that spectrum for me, it's what happens with 3D. We're seeing 3D as a staple part of the cinema experience now and that will transfer into the home – as it's already started to do. It's estimated that by 2014, 40% of homes in the UK will have a 3D-capable device, whether that's a laptop, a TV or something else. Soon, when people begin to replace their flatscreen televisions, they will probably buy one that just happens to have 3D capabilities built in. That opens up an environment for content providers to invest more money into 3D material. Sony has a lot more games coming in 3D this year, and it does enrich the experience. It'll be a reasonably long haul to get there, but I think it could become the norm.Will Sony be looking to encourage indie developers to explore technologies like 3D and Move?RM:There are two ways we interface with people who want to develop. One is through the licensed partnership agreement – via this, we have support systems to impart knowledge and ensure third-parties can create the best content possible. The other side is more of a homebrew-type situation with the PlayStation Minis programme. These are very low budget products by design. It's an area I'm sure we're going to develop and make it easier for people to take part. One area that really interests us is tied in with Ian's report – we need to get people creating something of value, especially at university, and we should give them the ability to publish what they're doing. That's something we're looking into at the moment.But the process can start with standard retail games that include creation elements. We're looking at LittleBigPlanet 2 at the moment and how we can use that to encourage creativity. It's basically an editor, you put levels together, write a story… When you look at the creativity coming out of a million consumers, it's unbelievable – the stuff they're coming up with is outrageous. It shows that if you give gamers something that's easy enough to deal with, you'll get creativity in abundance.The area we also need to look at is much deeper, hard coding. We have 5000 secondary schools in the UK, if we put computer clubs into all of those, and we had just one child from each school going to university to study games development, then say we only had one out of every ten of those joining the industry, we'd have 500 people joining the workforce every single year. That would be a great achievement. We also need script writers, fantastic fine artists – we're reliant on all the other arts to be part of the overall production. But maths, physics and coding are fundamental – games can't exist without them.Bafta can help us here. It is a charity and education is a huge part of it. It's important to reach people through the events we put on throughout the year, and we're looking to put on more. We also video as many as we can – you can see some great footage on the Bafta website. Bafta is a massive brand, it's got creativity written through its DNA, it also has access to wonderful people who can bring this stuff to life for kids. There's a great way we can all interact here - it needs some thinking about, it needs some sorting out, but it will develop over time.The games being nominated for Bafta awards this year are very much core titles – Assassin's Creed, Call of Duty Halo, etc. In five years time, would you like to see a more diverse range of experiences being put forward for consideration?RM:This is very much a question of push and pull in terms of products and customer demand. Heavy Rain has been successful for us, yet when you look at CoD it's dwarfed in terms of numbers. Consumers are asking for many different genres, and we will supply according to that demand. We're looking for a point of difference as well, and the creativity of developers will ensure we're still pushing in to new areas. But that will be down to consumers – if it's engaging and appealing, then they'll buy our product, if not, they'll reject it and we won't make any more. I think genres will remain pretty similar but there is potential to tell more and better stories. There is more dialogue, more plot development… we try new genres, some stick, some don't, that's just the way of the industry.And as a console manufacturer, how does the constant evolution of technology affect your business? How will you build PlayStation 4 to allow for the creation of new game types?RM:It's the same conversation as it was for PlayStation 1, 2 and 3. With the amount of money required nowadays to develop and launch a new platform, you have to have a long lifecycle. With PS1, launched in 1995, we ended up with a seven year active lifecycle and a 10 year overall lifecycle. When we set out to invent a new platform, often it's something we can't actually make yet, because technology hasn't got us into a position where we can make silicon that thin, or where we can manage that amount of heat or power.PlayStation 3 was the classic example – nobody else could create it for us so we had to build a fabrication plant to make it ourselves. And then there's a learning curve of how to use the technology to get the most out of it – so classically at the launch you'll get one or two brilliant games then a lot that struggle to use the power because it's complicated. Right now, we're seeing a lot of the power of PS3 being used so the games are looking great, and that's good for third-party publishers as they start to make good money on the big winners.Where we go after this is an interesting one. The online side is very interesting and is a big part of our business going forward. But in terms of what sort of technology we'll be using, it's far too early to say yet because we're only half way through the lifecycle of PS3 – there are many years to come on that machine.Is Britain under threat as a game development nation?IL:I hope not, but there are a lot of urgent issues that have to be addressed to boost the industry. Historically, we are brilliant at creating games – after Sir Clive Sinclair put affordable computing into our hands we had Elite, GTA, Tomb Raider... We got off to a great start, but we didn't invest in that. It's a typically British story – we come out of the blocks flying, but then everyone else wakes up to what we're good at an overtakes us. Foreign publishers see more value in the IP we create in the UK than we do ourselves. So many of our studios are foreign-owned now, and a lot of talent has gone abroad to work in Silicon Valley and Montreal. I would hope that in the indie space there's an opportunity for the rebirth of UK brilliance.Do you, as a publisher, have a responsibility toward supporting UK development?IL:I don't think anyone has a responsibility – even though I'd like to personally. You have to go where the skills are high and the costs are low. As an industry, we've lobbied hard for tax credits and have been ignored by the government. So you have to compete with Montreal, which offers 37.5% production tax credits. That's hard cash in your hands, matched with a very skilled labour force. They're able to effect a brain drain from the UK because they're offering very good salaries, a great quality of life and great opportunities.They've achieved in ten years what it took the UK 25 years to achieve, because the Canadian government invested in the industry. They spent half a billion Canadian dollars attracting the likes of Electronic Arts, Ubisoft and Eidos to set up shop there – but that in turn has let to $1.5bn of inward investment. They've created this fantastic ecosystem for video game development, which we have not done in the UK. You need access to production tax credits to create a level playing field and a skilled workforce, and if the UK can't match Canada it's no surprise that publishers will place their development studios elsewhere, which is a tragedy given our heritage.How about at Sony? Are your development studios in the UK still important?RM:Clearly we're very proud of the products that are coming out of studios in the UK. We face exactly the same issues – we have to look at staffing costs, the projects, the funding. But we have a responsibility to make sure we're pushing the boundaries, and we need people who are at the top of their game in terms of R&amp;D. At the moment, Britain is a good place to find them. What would happen if we could no longer find that talent in the UK? I don't know…You can watch the Bafta video game awards online via theBafta site.
It's Tuesday. Come and have a chat.
If my grandchildren ever ask me where I was when I realised the internet was over – they won't, of&nbsp;course, because they'll be too&nbsp;busy playing with the teleportation console – I'll be able to be quite specific: I was in a Mexican restaurant opposite a cemetery in Austin, Texas, halfway through eating a taco. It was the end of day two of South by Southwest Interactive, the world's highest-profile gathering of geeks and the venture capitalists who love them, and I'd been pursuing a policy of asking those I met, perhaps a little too aggressively, what it wasexactlythat they did. What is "user experience", really? What the hell is "the gamification of healthcare"? Or "geofencing"? Or "design thinking"? Or "open source government"? What is "content strategy"? No, I mean, like, specifically?The content strategist across the table took a sip of his orange-coloured cocktail. He looked slightly exasperated. "Well, from one perspective, I guess," he said, "it's kind of everything."This, for outsiders, is the fundamental obstacle to understanding where technology culture is heading: increasingly, it's about everything. The vaguely intimidating twentysomethings who prowl the corridors of the Austin Convention Centre, juggling coffee cups, iPad 2s and the festival's 330-page schedule of events, are no longer content with transforming that part of your life you spend at your computer, or even on your smartphone. This is not just grandiosity on their part. Rather – and this is a technological point, but also a philosophical one – they herald the final disappearance of the boundary between "life online" and "real life", between the physical and the virtual. It thus requires only a small (and hopefully permissible) amount of journalistic hyperbole to suggest that the days of "the internet" as an identifiably separate thing may be behind us. After a few hours at South by Southwest (SXSW), the 330-page programme in my bag started triggering shoulder aches, but to be honest it was a marvel of brevity: after all, the festival was pretty much about everything.We've been hearing about this moment in digital history since at least 1988, when the Xerox technologist Mark Weiser coined the term"ubiquitous computing", referring to the point at which devices and systems would become so numerous and pervasive that "technology recedes into the background of our lives". (To be fair, Weiser also called this "the age of calm technology", implying a serenity that the caffeinated, Twitter-distracted masses in Austin this week didn't seem yet to have attained.) And it's almost a decade since annoying tech-marketing types started using "mobile" as an abstract noun, referring to the end of computing as a desktop-only affair. But the arrival of the truly ubiquitous internet is something new, with implications both thrilling and sinister – and it has a way of rendering many of the questions we've been asking about technology in recent years almost meaningless. Did social media cause the recent Arab uprisings? Is the web distracting us from living? Are online friendships as rich as those offline? When the lines between reality and virtuality dissolve, both sides of such debates are left looking oddly anachronistic. Here, then, is a short tour of where we might be headed&nbsp;instead:Web 3.0"Big ideas are like locomotives," saysTim O'Reilly, a computer book publisher legendary among geeks, embarking on one of the grand metaphors to which the headline speakers at SXSW seem invariably prone. "They pull a train, and the train's gotta be going somewhere lots of people want to go." The big idea O'Reilly is touting is "sensor-driven collective intelligence", but since he coined the term "Web 2.0", he seems resigned to people labelling this new phase "Web&nbsp;3.0". If Web 2.0 was the moment when the collaborative promise of the internet seemed finally to be realised – with ordinary users creating instead of just consuming, on sites from Flickr to Facebook to Wikipedia – Web 3.0 is the moment they forget they're doing it. When the GPS system in your phone or iPad can relay your location to any site or device you like, when Facebook uses facial recognition on photographs posted there, when your financial transactions are tracked, and when the location of your car can influence a constantly changing, sensor-driven congestion-charging scheme, all in real time, something has qualitatively changed. You're still creating the web, but without the conscious need to do so. "Our phones and cameras are being turned into eyes and ears for applications," O'Reilly has written. "Motion and location sensors tell where we are, what we're looking at, and how fast we're moving . . . Increasingly, the web is the world – everything and everyone in the world casts an 'information shadow', an aura of data, which when captured and processed intelligently, offers extraordinary opportunity and mindbending implications."Alarming ones, too, of course, if you don't know exactly what's being shared with whom. Walking past a bank of plasma screens in Austin that were sputtering out tweets from the festival, I sawthe claim from Marissa Mayer, a Google vice-president, that credit card companies can predict with 98% accuracy, two years in advance, when a couple is going to divorce, based on spending patterns alone. She meant this to be reassuring: Google, she explained, didn't engage in such covert data-mining. (Deep inside, I admit, I wasn't reassured. But then Mayerprobably already knew that.)The game layerDepending on your degree of immersion in the digital world, it's possible that you've never heard the term "gamification" or that you're already profoundly sick of it. From a linguistic point of view, the word should probably be outlawed – perhaps we could ban "webinar" at the same time? – but as a concept it was everywhere in Austin. Videogame designers, the logic goes, have become the modern world's leading experts on how to keep users excited, engaged and committed: the success of the games industry proves that, whatever your personal opinion of Grand Theft Auto or World of Warcraft. So why not apply that expertise to all those areas of life where we could use more engagement, commitment and fun: in education, say, or in civic life, or in hospitals? Three billion person-hours a week are spent gaming. Couldn't some of that energy be productively harnessed?This sounds plausible until you start to demand details, whereupon it becomes extraordinarily hard to grasp what this might actually mean. The current public face of gamification isJane McGonigal, author of the new book Reality Is Broken: Why Games Make Us Better And How They Can Change The World, but many of her prescriptions are cringe-inducing: they seem to involve redefining aid projects in Africa as "superhero missions", or telling hospital patients to think of their recovery from illness as a "multiplayer game". Hearing how McGonigal speeded her recovery from a serious head injury by inventing a "superhero-themed game" called SuperBetter, based on Buffy the Vampire Slayer, in which her family and friends were players helping her back to health, I'm apparently supposed to feel inspired. Instead I feel embarrassed and a little sad: if I'm ever in that situation, I hope I won't need to invent a game topersuade my family to care.A different reaction results from watchinga manic presentation by Seth Priebatsch, the 22-year-old Princeton dropout who is this year's leading victim of what the New York Times has labelled"Next Zuckerberg Syndrome",the quest to identify and invest in tomorrow's equivalent of the billionaire Facebook founder. Priebatsch's declared aim is to "build a game layer on top of the world" – which at first seems simply to mean that we should all useSCVNGR, his location-based gaming platform that allows users to compete to win rewards at restaurants, bars and cinemas on their smartphones. (You can practically hear the marketers in the room start to salivate when he mentions this.)But Priebatsch's ideas run deeper than that, whatever the impression conveyed by his bright orange polo shirt, his bright orange-framed sunglasses, and his tendency to bounce around the stage like a wind-up children's toy. His take on the education system, for example, is that it is a badly designed game: students compete for good grades, but lose motivation when they fail. A good game, by contrast, never makes you feel like you've failed: you just progress more slowly. Instead of giving bad students an F, why not start all pupils with zero points and have them strive for the high score? This kind of insight isn't unique to the world of videogames: these are basic insights into human psychology and the role of incentives, recently repopularised in books such as Freakonomics and Nudge. But that fact, in itself, may be a symptom of the vanishing distinction between online and off – and it certainly doesn't make it wrong.The dictator's dilemmaNot long ago, according tothe new-media guru Clay Shirky, the Sudanese government set up a Facebook page calling for a protest against the Sudanese government, naming a specific time and place – then simply arrested those who showed up. It was proof, Shirky argues, that social media can't be revolutionary on its own. "The reason that worked is that nobody knew anybody else," he says. "They thought Facebook itself was trustworthy." This is one of many counterintuitive impacts that the internet has wrought on the politics of protest. But perhaps the most powerful is the one that Shirky – himself a prominent evangelist for the democratic power of services such as Twitter and Facebook – labels "the dictator's dilemma".Authoritarian leaders and protesters alike can exploit the power of the internet, Shirky concedes. (At least he notes the risks: in another session at the conference, I watch dumbstruck as a consultant on cyber-crimefighting speaks with undisguised joy about how much information the police could glean from Facebook, in order to infiltrate communities where criminals might lurk. Asked about privacy concerns, she replies: "Yeah – we'll have to keep an eye on that.") But there's a crucial asymmetry, Shirky goes on. The internet is now such a pervasive part of so many people's lives that blocking certain sites, or simply turning the whole thing off – as leaders in Bahrain, Egypt and elsewhere have recently tried to do – can backfire completely, angering protesters further and, from a dictator's point of view, making matters worse. "The end state of connectivity," he argues, "is that it provides citizens with increased power."The road to that end state won't be smooth. But the compensatory efforts of the authorities to harness the internet for their own ends will never fully compensate. Either they must allow dissenters to organise online, or – by cutting off a resource that's crucial to their daily lives – provoke them to greater fury.Biomimicry comes of ageThe search engineAskNaturedescribes itself as "the world's first digital library of Nature's solutions", and to visit it is to experience the curious, rather disorienting sensation of Googling the physical universe. Ask it some basic question – how to keep warm, say, or float in water, or walk on unstable ground – and it will search its library for solutions to the problem that nature has already found. The idea of "biomimicry" is certainly not new: for much of the past decade, the notion of borrowing engineering solutions from the natural world has inspired architects, industrial designers and others. Austin is abuzz with examples. "Nissan, right now, is developing swarming cars based on the movements of schooling fish," saysChris Allen of the Biomimicry Institute. Fish follow ultra-simple mathematical rules, he explains, to ensure that they never collide with each other when swimming in groups. Borrow that algorithm for navigating cars and a new solution to congestion and road accidents presents itself: what if, in heavy traffic, auto-navigated cars could be programmed to avoid each other while continuing forwards as efficiently as possible?The Bank of England, he adds, is currently consulting biologists to explore ways in which organic immune systems might inspire reforms to the financial system to render it immune to devastating crises. "And what we're looking for now," Allen says cryptically, "is an interactive technology inspired by snakes."'We are meant to pulse'Until recently, the debate over "digital distraction" has been one of vested interests: authors nostalgic for the days of quiet book-reading have bemoaned it, while technology zealots have dismissed it. But the fusion of the virtual world with the real one exposes both sides of this argument as insufficient, and suggests a simpler answer: the internet is distracting if it stops you from doing what you really want to be doing; if it doesn't, it isn't. Similarly, warnings about "internet addiction" used to sound like grandparental cautions against the evils of rock music; scoffing at the very notion was a point of pride for those who identified themselves with the future. But you can develop a problematic addiction to anything: there's no reason to exclude the internet, and many real geeks in Austin (as opposed to the new-media gurus who claim to speak for them) readily concede they know sufferers. One of the most popular talks at the conference, touching on these subjects, bore the title Why Everything Is Amazing And Nobody Is Happy.A related danger of the merging of online and offline life, saysbusiness thinker Tony Schwartz, is that we come to treat ourselves, in subtle ways, like computers. We drive ourselves to cope with ever-increasing workloads by working longer hours, sucking down coffee and spurning recuperation. But "we were not meant to operate as computers do," Schwartz says. "We are meant to pulse." When it comes to managing our own energy, he insists, we must replace a linear perspective with a cyclical one: "We live by the myth that the best way to get more work done is to work longer hours." Schwartz cites research suggesting that we should work in periods of no greater than 90 minutes before seeking rest. Whatever you might have been led to imagine by the seeping of digital culture into every aspect of daily life – and at times this week in Austin it was easy to forget this – you are not, ultimately, a computer.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft Said to Stop Releasing Zune as Demand Ebbs &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) will cease introducing new versions of the Zune music and video player because of tepid demand, letting the company shift its focus to other devices, according to a person familiar with the decision."Great! Wait - which other devices?Windows Internet Explorer: Video Gallery &gt;&gt; MicrosoftRequires Silverlight. Not all machines at work or otherwise are equipped with Silverlight, Microsoft.Leo Apotheker lays out his strategy for first time as HP CEO | VentureBeat"Leo Apotheker, chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, articulated his company's strategy to make the shift from its dominant position in computing and enterprise hardware to playing a role in the emerging smartphone, tablet and cloud computing markets of today.&#10;"The opportunities of this new information age are vast, Apotheker said. 'Our vision is to provide seamless, secure, context-aware experiences for a connected world,' he added... 'The world is connected, people to people,' he said.'People want information where and when they need it.'"We heard: &lt;em&gt;blah blah blah&lt;/em&gt;.Hackers exploit Flash zero-day, Adobe confirms &gt;&gt; Computerworld"dobe today confirmed that attackers are exploiting an unpatched bug in Flash Player using Microsoft Excel documents.&#10;"The company will patch Flash next week and will also update Adobe Reader, which includes code that renders Flash content inserted in PDF files."Wash, rinse, repeat.Star-crossed partners &gt;&gt; AsymcoNokia and Microsoft redux: "One irony is inescapable: the world's largest device company can't build commercially successful software and the world's largest software company can't built commercially successful devices."Japan earthquake disrupts technology companies &gt;&gt; BBC News"Technology firms are facing major disruption to supplies in the wake of the earthquake and tsunami which have devastated parts of Japan.&#10;"The country is home to several of the world's major high tech manufacturers.&#10;"Many of them have had to stop production to carry out safety checks and the prospect of rolling blackouts means further interruptions are likely over the coming weeks.&#10;"Sony, Panasonic, Toshiba and Canon are among the companies affected."Apple rejects 'wave and pay' for new iPhone - News, Gadgets &amp; Tech - The Independent"Apple will not include "wave and pay" chips in the new iPhone to be released later this year, dashing industry hopes that a universal standard for the technology would be adopted in 2011.&#10;Sources at several of the largest mobile operators in the UK revealed Apple had disclosed in meetings that it would not be including Near Field Communication (NFC) technology – which enables payment for products with a wave of your phone on a reader – in the latest version of the iPhone, be it the iPhone 4GS or the iPhone 5."Also won't contain magic wand, invisible ink dispenser, or secret decoding ring.iPads for College Classrooms? Not So Fast, Some Professors Say &gt;&gt; The Chronicle of Higher EducationOr to put it in Fraser Speirs's words, "Alternate headline: '2010's device doesn't support 1810's pedagogy very well'. (Speirs has overseen the deployment of iPads throughout a primary and secondary school in Scotland.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Andy Carvin is getting a little sick of talking about which verb best describes what he does. "It's somewhere between reporting and collaborative network journalism, and George Plimpton-like oral history, except that I'm doing it in real time in 140 characters. I don't know what to call that and I don't care as long as people don't waste my time trying to give it a name."Whatever Carvin's particular brand of news gathering should be called, it has made him a must-read source on the Arab uprisings – and possibly the most talked about person at SXSW. "All roads now lead to Andy Carvin," declared media critic Jeff Jarvis at a discussion on the future of news.Ever since the start of the Tunisian uprising in December 2010, Carvin has been ignoring his day job as a strategist for National Public Radio and serving as a one-man broadcast channel-cum-newswire on events in the Middle East. A veteran of social media who used Twitter to factcheck the 2008 presidential election, hebegan retweeting testimonies, pictures and video from the protests in Tunisia - then Egypt and Libya.Although Carvin had a network of blogger contacts in the region whom he used to check information being tweeted, what marks him out is his willingness to retweet unverified material and ask his followers for help to establish its accuracy. "I admit that I don't know the answer to things and see users as potential experts and eyewitnesses. In some ways what I'm doing is not that different from a broadcast host doing a breaking live story with a producer in one ear, talking to pundits and all the while anchoring the coverage, but rather than producers I have followers."Anyone who follows Carvincould be forgiven for wondering if he ever sleeps. Since December he has regularly sent more than 100 tweets a day, beginning at around 6.30am and finally logging off at around 11pm. His family have been endlessly tolerant, he says, but there are ground rules: "If we are going out to dinner I put away my phone. I only take it out if my wife takes one of the kids to the bathroom."The ground rules do not preclude broadcasting – or whatever it is – all the way through a SXSW debate on the role of social media in the Arab revolts. Someone has tweeted him a link to an image of a mortar round with what appeared to be a Star of David on it. He has tweeted his followers to ask if any of them know what it is. "I said, 'If you were an Israeli arms manufacturer would you be stupid enough to put a Star of David on it?'."One user suggested that the crescent above the star resembled a parachute and that the star might be just that, suggesting that it was an illumination round rather than evidence of an Israeli conspiracy to prop up Gadaffi. Carvin did a quick Google image search and asked his followers to sort through the results. Some users pointed out an Indian round with similar markings, others a French munition. Even if his team of experts hadn't completely nailed it, yet they had done enough to establish that the original characterisation of the picture was almost certainly wrong.During the same session, he broke the news to the room that an Al-Jazeera journalist had become the first journalist to be killed covering the uprisings. Given his international impact, it comes as a surprise thatCarvin only has 32,000 followers- compared to the millionCharlie Sheenattracted in 24 hours, for instance - but he insists that he is not interested in the machismo of follower tallies. "I see my Twitter account as a newsgathering operation and the success or failure rate is clearly tied to the expertise of the people who follow me. I would rather have almost no one following me and have them all be experts than have a million followers."That expertise was highlighted recently when he tweeted a request for help identifying a photograph from Benghazi of "a guy holding up the biggest bullet I had ever seen". After some discussion among his followers, US military serviceman sent him a link to an image of a Russian anti-aircraft round that matched it perfectly. "There is no way that I or anyone else at NPR could have done that on our own."Carvin says neither he nor his bosses have yet worked out the broader lessons of his success for NPR's newsgathering and organisation. "I don't have a desire to blow up the newsroom." But a starting point, he suggests, may be easing the conventional workload on his reporter colleagues so they have more time to engage with social media.Doesn't he ever wish he could be on the ground reporting from the tumultuous events he is tweeting about? "I do but I don't want to be out there while things are rough. I've never been a war correspondent and I don't know how to do it." If he hasn't quite worked out what to call what he does, though, he winces at the description of his journalism as curation. "I know what I'm doing is a form of reporting. I just don't know what kind of reporting it is."
Democratic senator Al Franken has has issued a rallying cry to "innovators and entrepreneurs" at SXSW to fight back against Comcast and other companies lobbying to pave the way for a two-speed internet.The principle of net neutrality, under which all content is delivered equally to internet users' homes, is "in big trouble", Franken warned in a passionate rallying cry at the conference on Monday.Franken's address was always going to be a preach to the converted – SXSW is the spiritual home for small, independent media and technology firms – but he warned that unless the 200,000 attendees "use the internet to save the internet", then big telecoms firms will muscle through plans for a two-tier net."The one thing that big corporations have that we don't is the ability to purchase favourable political outcomes," he said."Big corporations like the telecoms firms have lots of lobbyists – and good ones too. Every policy-maker in Washington is hearing much more from the anti-net neutrality side than the side without lobbyists. But everyone has more to fear from these big corporations than from us. [Their proposals] would benefit no one but them."In the US, where the net neutrality debate rages on despite a conciliatory bill by the Federal Communications Commission in December, telecoms giant Verizon is fighting the rules in a bid to allow internet providers to choose which content they can charge for. Net neutrality advocates fear that internet providers, most pertinently Comcast which controls a large stake in both TV and internet provision, could downgrade rivals' content and boost delivery of their own."[On today's internet] you don't need a record deal to make a song and have people hear it, or a major film studio for people to see your film, or a fancy R&amp;D job. But the party may almost be over," Franken said."There is nothing more motivated than a corporation that thinks it is leaving money on the table. They are coming on the internet and wanting to destroy its freedom and openness. All of this is bad for consumers but an outright disaster for the independent creative community."Big corporations like Verizon and Comcast are not "inherently evil," he added, but their duty to shareholders "to make as much money as they can" could change the internet for every American as they know it.Comcast was last month accused ofeffectively erecting a tollbooththat puts competitive video streaming service, namely Netflix, at a competitive disadvantage. Franken on Monday accused Comcast of thinly disguising its "real endgame," which he argued was "to put Netflix out of business".He added: "Today SXSW is a hotbed of creative entrepreneurship and innovation."But what will it be 20 years from now? Will Americans have no choice but to consumer corporate content? Will entrepreneurs still matter? Or will conglomerates have so much control that only the innovations that they profit from will make it onto the market."Let's not sell out. Let's not let the government sell us out. Let's fight for net neutrality. Let's keep Austin weird. Let's keep the internet weird. Let's keep the internet free."
In a recent blogMichael Robertson, of MP3tunes fame, declared that the US-based personalised internet radio servicePandorawill never be a profitable business – because of the high royalty rates it has to pay music companies. Pandora, created by Tim Westergren, recently filed an S-1 document with the US stock market regulator the SEC, as a prelude to selling stock to the public, stating that it had paid $45m (half its revenue) in music royalties.As a songwriter and musician, my initial reaction to this was that 50% of revenue is not extortionate by any means, considering that without music Pandora would not exist. Robertson points out that Pandora's 245 employees have worked hard to dramatically increase revenue in the past nine months, and I agree that they should be applauded for that. But he fails to acknowledge the musicians who have put in countless hours making the content Pandora's customers consume (and the people working hard at labels and publishing companies supporting those artists). Pandora now has 80 million users (up 73.9% year on year) who listened to 3.9bn hours of music during the year ending 31 January.What is depressing, to me, is the percentage of Pandora revenue that goes to songwriters. Of the 50% of revenue spent on music only 1.75% goes toBMIand 0.38% toSesac(both collection societies for songwriters). The music service iscurrently in disputewith a third collection society,Ascap, over how much to pay it. However, Pandora still has a licence to broadcast music written by Ascap members. Altogether, according to PaidContent.org, royalties for songwriters and composers amount to 4% of Pandora's revenue.I suppose Robertson's views on these matters are influenced by his personal experiences. It can't be much fun to bepersonally sued by a label, and so it's understandable that his blogs often show severe dislike of major music companies. As an American, he also lives in a country where radio stations have never paid anything to the record labels and performers behind the music they play (they still have to pay the songwriters a small fee, though). The only other countries where this happens is in Iran, North Korea and Rwanda. For the past few years, US performers have fought to change this.So, many US webcasters thought it was unfair whenthe US government set royalty rates for online usage of recordings, to be paid to these labels and performers viaSoundExchange, a non-profit collection society established by the government. These will increase year by year and are:2011: 0.17 cents per performance (of a song)2012: 0.20 cents2013: 0.22 cents2014: 0.23 cents2015: 0.25 centsMany claimed, as the broadcast stations have always done, that radio is promotional. In response to thatRob Dickins, the former chairman of Warner Music UK, once replied: "It's promotional when you play my record when I want you to!" As Pandora's Matt Ostrower recently tweeted: "I can't tell you how many times a label calls us with the hot new track … but that's not the process." It is not planning to be "promotional" anytime soon.One online music service executive told me that while music is a product for companies like iTunes – which takes much less than 50% of revenue from downloads – to a company like Pandora it's a service, adding that there are no marginal costs for songwriters and performers. But just because there are no operational costs for an artist once the music has been submitted to one of these services it doesn't mean that there hasn't been significant material expenses and hundreds, even thousands, of hours of work going into producing their work. So it appears we have two choices here: charge a substantial upfront fee effectively to sell each song to a music service, or use a system whereby the service makes a micropayment for each usage – that is, royalties. Which one is fairer? I'd say the latter.Robertson says that it will be impossible for Pandora to achieve any sizable profit due to the "unquenchable thirst for higher royalties of the music companies". Speaking as a songwriter I ask: how much less than 4% of revenue should we share between us before Pandora can, like Robertson's previous venture mp3.com,be sold and make the owners hundreds of millions of dollars?He also says it would be difficult for Pandora to expand as "other countries have even higher royalties than the US". ButPPL, the UK's equivalent of SoundExchange, has a per-stream rate of 0.058 pence for online webcasters – much lower than the US rates. ThePRSrate for webcasts is 0.05p per stream.Unlike Robertson, Pandora has not complained – at least not officially – that half of its revenue went on music royalties.Westergren,said that the rates set by the US government should keep the cost of music a manageable expense for new services, which would pay percentages of revenue only after they have established a steady stream of it. He praised A2IM, a trade group for independent musicians, for pushing for this rate. The company is confident that it will be able to increase revenue in the coming years.Recent reports, like the one thatSpotify will be valued at $1bnif it manages to raise another $100m of investment, raise unrealistic expectations of revenues, for these services and the labels that have shares in Spotify. According toIFPI,global digital music revenues in 2010 were $4.6bn, most of it from downloads.Spotify's founder, Daniel Ek, and Westergren have so far shown no intention of selling their companies, and I hope they won'tdo an "Adriana Huffington"and cash in. When corporations get into music to make a quick buck, it often ends badly – at least for music creators.
