International statsDid you know that the former Soviet republic of Ukraine has more internet service providers than any other non-English speaking country? Or that China's 706 million workers number almost three times as many as that of Europe? How about the fact that the UK is the eighth most generous country in the world in terms of foreign aid, but the 19th biggest consumer of illicit drugs?All this fascinating information comes from the CIA World Factbook, which gives such facts but not the comparisons. However, Rapid Intelligence, an online publishing company based in Australia, has created a user-friendly and addictive site drawing comparisons from the CIA data - enough to satisfy even the most hardcore trivia buffs.The clever thing about Nation Master is that it allows you to manipulate data without any data of its own. Just like Upmystreet.com (housing), SkyScanner (flights), or the legendary Oracle of Kevin Bacon (movie trivia), it taps into other databases.www.nationmaster.comwww.cia.gov/cia/publications/factbookwww.upmystreet.comwww.skyscanner.netwww.cs.virginia.edu/oracleCorporate falloutAnother interesting use of someone else's data is the work of James Patten, a PhD student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Tangible Media Group. Patten has invented a "corporate fallout detector", a bespoke machine that reads bar codes from consumer products and makes a noise like a Geiger counter based on the social or environmental record of its manufacturer.The detector is loaded with information from a number of barcode databases that are then cross-referenced with pollution and corporate ethics databases. As Patten says: "It's difficult for consumers to trace corporate actions through the maze of cor porate ownership, and find who is really responsible." There could be some noisy supermarkets in the future.http://web.media.mit.edu/~jpatten/cfdwww.scorecard.orgwww.ethicalconsumer.org/research/corporate_researcher.htmlNet migrationMoving Here is an impressive collection of digitised photographs, maps and audio items recording "migration experiences" of the past 200 years. The site focuses on the culture and experiences of the Caribbean, Irish, Jewish and South Asian communities that have settled in the UK. The site houses links to more than 150,000 items collected from more than 30 UK institutions, ranging from the Black Cultural Archives in Brixton, south London, to the British Library. The site, which follows on from the work of the South Asian Diaspora Literature and Arts Archive, is backed by the lottery-funded New Opportunities Fund, and offers advice on how late generation migrants can trace their roots.www.movinghere.org.ukwww.salidaa.org.ukwww.enrichuk.netTapas for summerPedros Soleras, of Madrid's El Pais newspaper, once described Spanish tapas as "a trick of spinning out your drinks without getting drunk". With that in mind, Club Sherish - a consortium of sherry producers - has launched a new UK website to promote Spain's favourite tipple and the sobering food that goes with it.Ten of England's Michelin-starred chefs, including Gordon Ramsay and his former protege Angela Hartnett, who became the first woman head chef at London's Connaught, have assembled an array of tapas for you to cook at home, and there is a well-researched restaurant guide that is restricted to 12 London restaurants. The content of the site is excellent, if a little scant at times, but the web is full of more detailed alternatives.www.tenstartapas.comwww.spaintour.com/tapas.htmwww.arrakis.es/~jols/tapasIt's good to reportRallying under the cry "everyone is a is a witness, everyone is a journalist," Melbourne Indymedia has launched a service that allows mobile phone users to upload homespun reportage to its website. The Phone IndyMedia Patch System (Pimp) is a powerful new tool for the grassroots media makers. The service is only available in Australia but it can only be a matter of time before UK activists have a similar service, and the prospect of picture and video messaging cannot be far away.http://melbourne.indymedia.org/pimp.phpNew and notedFirst glimpse of Doc Ockwww.spiderman.sonypictures.comCollect toy presidentswww.toypresidents.comOnline musical chairswww.bumplist.netSix of the best:   TronTron 2.0 the gamewww.tron20.netThe 1982 moviewww.tron-sector.comThe bandwww.ladytron.comThe original trailerus.imdb.com/Trailers?0084827Play the arcade gamewww.csh.rit.edu/~jerry/arcade/tronThe Tron communitywww.tron-sector.com
The owner of a 101-year-old seaside pier today said he was planning to auction it on the internet.Mike Paxman bought Victoria Pier in Colwyn Bay, north Wales, in 1994. He has completely overhauled the once-derelict structure. He hoped to transform its large ballroom into a casino and tourist venue, but was held back by fire regulations.Mr Paxman, 57, tried to raise the cash for further building work but now says he is tired of the stress involved.He plans to advertise the cast iron, steel and wood structure, which is 50 metres (160ft) long and 15 metres wide (50ft), on the auction site eBay.He said: "The pier has been a real labour of love for me and my wife.We have worked extremely hard on it and I am still convinced it has huge potential, if you have the money to invest. But there comes a time when you feel you can't take any more stress, and it is time to sell."It will be on eBay within the next two weeks. I want to put it on the internet because that may attract a global developer who has the cash to do it properly."Mr Paxman, who also works as a marine engineer, refused to reveal how much he paid for the pier or how much he hoped to sell it for.
Hold on to your .ukNominet, the registry for .uk domains, has unveiled a new system to deal with the thorny issue of expiring domain names. Under the old system, Nominet made "substantial efforts" to contact the owner before offering the name for reuse, even when no renewal fee was paid. Now, Nominet will make only one attempt to contact the owner, and the name will expire after 90 days.To balance this, Nominet will now allow .uk names to be renewed six months in advance, and will also provide an automatic renewal option, under which owners are invoiced every two years. The new system will cover all .uk names by November.www.nominet.org.ukE-governmentThe government's IT security is "worryingly poor and needs significant improvements if the UK is to meet its e-government targets," according to the Vertical Market Security Report 2003, published by NTA Monitor, internet security testing specialists. The company analysed more than 600 test results across the financial, government, legal, IT &amp; telecommunications, manufacturing and services sectors. According to the report, the government sector had the worst record overall in firewall security, and was joint worst in terms of the number of organisations found to have high- and medium-level security flaws.Legal challengeSome 38 Spanish software firms have engaged Spanish law firm Landwell, an associate of PricewaterhouseCoopers, to initiate criminal challenges against individual users of peer-to-peer software, following similar attacks on file-sharers in the US by the record industry. "It's hard to see how these criminal prosecutions can succeed," says Struan Robertson, an IT lawyer with international law firm Masons. "There may be grounds for civil lawsuits, but not criminal prosecutions against these individuals, unless it can be shown they used these services for profit." He added that the same is true in Britain.Cool on ID cardsThe prime minister last week spoke of "huge logistical and cost issues" in introducing identity cards. "In principle there is a case for Britain moving towards a system of ID cards," he told a press conference. "However, there are huge logistical and cost issues that need to be resolved." His coolness contrasts with home secretary David   Blunkett's enthusiasm for "entitlement cards".www.number-10.gov.uk/output/Page4295.aspLinux securedIBM and Linux distributor SuSE have gained Common Criteria certification for Linux, the security standard demanded by many governments. This erodes Microsoft's advantage following the certification of Windows 2000 in October. The evaluation process is prohibitively expensive for most Linux distributors, but the two companies feel it is justified by the sales potential of the certified hardware and software.www.ibm.com/news/us/2003/02/131.htmlOffice offerMicrosoft plans to placate users of its Office suite who bought volume upgrade protection licences for the core applications in the Standard Edition, forgoing the extras offered in the Professional Edition. When Office 2003 appears this year, the core applications' features will differ from the Professional versions, unlike previous releases. This is upsetting some corporate customers. Those covered by Software Assurance or the prior Upgrade Advantage schemes will be offered the Professional versions at no extra cost. This will allow them to take advantage of the differences, such as replacing the Microsoft XML schema with a customised version.http://www.microsoft.com/licensingOpteron topsJapan's national research organisation is buying a Linux supercomputer based on 1,058 rack-mounted IBM eServer 325 systems, each with two 64-bit AMD Opteron processors. The eServer 325 can run Linux or Microsoft Windows and can run 32-bit and 64-bit software at the same time. The supercomputer will be capable of performing 11 trillion calculations per second, and will be integrated into a grid with non-Linux systems. The Opteron chip seems to deliver excellent performance when scaling, and a system with eight Opteron-based eServer 325s running the SuSE Linux Enterprise Server 8 version of Linux has just set a record on the Transaction Processing Performance Council's TPC-H benchmark. IBM says it expects to start shipping eServer 325 systems on October 17, with prices starting at $2,919.Printer errorXerox hopes to turn a glitch into a new technology. When using colour laser printers, certain areas of printouts would exhibit a glossier surface when the toner image was baked on to the paper. In trying to eliminate this, researchers discovered it could be manipulated into watermark-like patterns that cannot be reproduced by a photocopier. The process is called Glossmark.www.xeroxtechnology.com/glossmark
Getting information out of your local council can be frustrating and time-consuming. You can hold for ages on the phone while being passed from one department to the next.In a move to help make councils capable of providing information efficiently at the first point of contact, the government has launched an ambitious &#163;2.5m knowledge management project.This latest e-government project is the brainchild of the office of the deputy prime minister. The aim is to try to encourage more joined-up working between councils and public sector agencies. If councils can intelligently structure the information they hold on their computer systems and access it more quickly, the government believes the delivery of public services locally will improve.The national project team contends that the majority of councils lacks clear and effective knowledge management strategies. "There are no standards for how we manage knowledge effectively internally or between organisations," says Niki Lewis, head of development services for Wiltshire county council, which is leading the project. "If you can keep knowledge together where people can access it quickly, in a format they can use easily, you are going to save time and money."To encourage more councils to distribute and share knowledge more efficiently, the national project will be creating a series of knowledge management road maps. It will provide standards on implementation and issue toolkits to provide local authorities with specific guidance   on developing and managing data.Wiltshire county council recently carried out a knowledge management project to explore the effects of local rural deprivation. "We now have a much better picture of where we have vulnerable people in Wiltshire," Lewis says. The data is shared across council departments and will influence how services are delivered. She says the council is now looking at ways of making schools, job centres, cash points and broadband technology more accessible in deprived rural areas of Wiltshire.More generally, the national project team believes effective local knowledge management systems can help protect vulnerable children by, for example, recording domestic accidents that are handled by hospital staff. The project team says social   services departments could become more informed and alert to possible cases of child abuse. Systems can also be designed to capture information about youth offenders to try to target services and resources in specific areas to prevent re-offending.But the art of implementing such systems in local government is notoriously difficult. Knowledge is traditionally associated with power and not everyone wants to share it. Creating a trusting knowledge-sharing culture and motivating council staff to record and pass on data to other departments, let alone citizens, can be a formidable challenge.About two years ago, the London borough of Merton embarked on an ambitious knowledge management project to integrate the information stored on all its disparate databases.   "Information was held on a number of different systems. On each one, the citizen information was held in a different format. When a citizen walked into the council and asked for information, we would struggle to find all the information about that person quickly," explains Gurmel Bansal, head of IT for Merton. The council has since linked systems from social services, education and the housing department. "We're going to end up with a complete list of citizens in a single place. It will mean they are not bounced around the organisation. They will be dealing with a single point of contact and we will have all their information in one place."Bansal explains that the main hurdles the initiative had to overcome were not technology based. "The challenge has been addressing   hearts and minds." Getting individuals within the council's departments to identify relevant data and encouraging them to make it available for sharing were initial sticking points.Merton's experience is typical. While acknowledging these challenges, the national project team argues that effective local authority systems are essential if community leaders are to become more informed. Making quality information easily accessible is also seen as a way of inspiring confidence in local democracy. "It's about trust and transparency. We're not very good at making available a lot of information we hold. We need to be doing it well and safely," Lewis says.Knowledge management consultants have welcomed the initiative but fear it could be ineffective if its aims are too generic. "It has to be made relevant to citizens. Nebulous, ill-defined knowledge management systems have little chance of success. They have to be based on pragmatic business decisions," says Ken Fifield, director of consulting for Parity Business Solutions.As the 2005 deadline approaches, councils are under mounting pressure to provide easier and quicker access to relevant information so they can become more responsive. But the collaboration envisaged by this project requires councils to undergo a fundamental shift in working practices. Many local councils will probably be grappling with knowledge management implementation issues beyond 2005.
Do you keep up with advances in computer profiling and databasing?I try to stay as up to date as I can but I tend to rely      on carbon sources rather than silicon. It is much better to talk to the people who do this kind of stuff as they tell you      what you want to know, but also stuff you didn't realise you wanted to know! The science is changing very quickly. When I      wrote Killing The Shadows, the geographic profiling software was only being beta tested and wasn't being used in live      situations. When the book came out, people were beginning to trial it in live situations. By last year's Washington sniper      case, the FBI called uponDr Kim Rossmo, the guy who      developed the system I use in my book.How involved are you in running your site?I have a webmistress who takes care of all the practical stuff - it could eat      up my entire life if I did it myself. She's known me since I was 18 so she knows how I want to come across. We do      newsletters and I'm pretty active on the forum, which has become its own little discussion group. I sometimes want to      bang on the computer screen and shout "never mind about Jeffrey Deaver and Michael Connelly, what about me?"Do you feel the forums are the net at its most interactive?It is lovely to get the feedback and people do leave the most      wonderful messages. People say things they might feel less comfortable saying if they were at a reading. So I think the      forum allows for an important interaction. But I gave up chatrooms about six years ago because they were such a waste      of time. I was onCompuServeat the time so I used a lot of their members' chat      areas but got fed up with some of the balloons you'd find in them. Life's too short to have virtual fights with online      flamers!Weblog?I find most blogs pretty boring. Most writers' lives are pretty boring other than when they're on the road      touring. I really don't think I'm that important - why would anyone want my recipe for artichoke and tomato risotto?Gaming?I've had to wean myself off online gaming... if you're as easily distracted as I am, it can be fatal! In my      downtime, I did get very into playingDoom. I remember in the early 1990s getting completely      obsessed with Tetris to the extent that when I closed my eyes I would see falling blocks! Nowadays, I'm more inclined to      play adventure games such asMyst, which I thought was terrific. I      wasn't so impressed with Riven.PDA?I have a cute littleSony Clie, though I wish I had time to figure out half of what it does.      It does regularly bite me by wiping its memory, though, and I've learned the hard way to back-up every night!Software?I've started using Spybot, free from Download.com. It might be a coincidence, but it has improved the      performance of my drive either way.Visit:www.valmcdermid.com
CD hazardI have transferred my (legitimate) music collection to my MP3 player. But this week, I bought a CD that, due to copy protection, my CD ripper won't recognise as containing audio files. I only listen to music on my iPod, so the CD is useless to me, but the shop won't take it back as it was opened.Thomas BarryJack Schofield replies:The key question, according to Bryan Lewin from the Trading Standards Institute, is: "Did the person know in advance that the goods would not work as expected?" If the packaging has a warning such as "Will not play on PC/Mac", then you can't really complain. If not, take the CD back to the shop, tell them it is corrupt and that you would like a refund. The disc is corrupt by virtue of its copy protection system, which means it will not play properly on your PC, and also means the shop cannot simply provide a replacement copy.You may need help from your local trading standards officer: you can find the nearest officer by typing your postcode intowww.tradingstandards.gov.uk. If the officer is unsympathetic, see if the copy-protected CD carries Philips' "compact disc" trademark logo, which should also be inscribed on your CD-Rom drive. Copy-protected CDs do not meet CD-DA standards, so you can argue that this is selling by misrepresentation (seewww.ftd.de/tm/hs/8935468.html). If all else fails, return the CD to the record company.The Campaign for Digital Rights has useful information athttp://ukcdr.org/issues/cd/quickand a    page of"Known Bad CDs". Also look at Fat Chuck's site in the US atwww.fatchucks.com. It is wise to check before buying because some CD drives have apparently been damaged by copy-protected CDs. Also, Apple has updated itsSuperDrive softwarefollowing problems ejecting copy-protected CDs.No GainI find Gator very useful, but Gain, its accessory, is an irritant - all those ads and offers for the US. Can I keep Gator and uninstall Gain?Barbara CumminsJS:You can't, within the terms of the licence agreement. Gator and Gain (Gator Advertiser Information Network) work together to provide pop-up advertisements. They are installed with many free Windows applications, especially media players and file-sharing applications. Gain is designed not to be uninstalled separately. However, if you uninstall all the programs that use Gain, it should uninstall itself. Seewww.doxdesk.com/parasite/Gator.html.Ticks onlineIf you have a noticeboard, you can put up a list and ask family, colleagues, etc, to either sign up for things or tick things off (eg who'll bring quiche). Is it possible to use a web page in the same way?Jennifer HowardJS:I tried using eBoard, an online pinboard, when it was free, but now it is being sold as aneducational tool. The best alternative looks likeOnline Home Base, which is designed for single users, but has a share/collaborate button.Office PinBoardlooks like massive overkill. You could also try doing it as aWiki, but it is not as suitable as OHB, and anybody can change or delete a Wiki page.Cash inI'm a self-employed sole trader and can't find a suitable simple accounting package. I have tried running a simple schedule in Excel but have found it too fiddly.Nick ReynoldsJS:The most popular personal accounts programs are Intuit's Quicken and Microsoft Money, and both can be used by sole traders. However, you may do better with something likeDO$H Accounts for Windows, which can be used as a stand-alone program or in conjunction with DO$H Cashbook and/or DO$H Invoice. It costs &#163;99 but you can download a trial version. Although keeping accounts is inevitably tedious at the time, it makes it much easier to create the appropriate paperwork later.Backchat&#183;Jon Terry says: "I have come across some freepost envelopes provided by the British Red Cross that allow you to send back old inkjet cartridges to be recycled. They receive &#163;1 for each inkjet cartridge returned. Emailfreepost@redcross.org.ukor call 01638 552 082." You can also donate old mobiles to your nearest British Red Cross shop or call 0800 015 3576.&#183;Dean Williams asked if he could use an Apple Cinema display with a PC. I couldn't guarantee it would work and, in an unpublished answer, suggested he buy two 17in LCD screens. He went the Cinema route and reports that it does work with his Sony RZ221 PC via an ADC (Apple Display Connector) to DVI adaptorwww.apple.com/uk/displays/adapter. He says: "It is much better than two 17in monitors for video and desktop publishing, etc." An alternative converter is Dr Bott's DVIatorwww.dviator.com. You may also need to buy a graphics card with a DVI port.
If you spend your time raiding tombs, you are bound to pick up ancient curses. Could that be what has befallen Lara Croft? Following the farcical launch of the latest Tomb Raider game, Angel Of Darkness, Derby developer Core Design, which gave birth to Lara, has been summarily sacked by publisher Eidos. Crystal Dynamics, a San Francisco developer, will make the next Tomb Raider game, due for 2005.This follows the news that Core's managing director, Jeremy Heath-Smith (who was also an Eidos board-member), has stepped down from both boards. Even Eidos's original inventor, Toby Gard, who left Core Design years ago, has seen all credibility ebb away, as his Galleon project has entered the realms of vapourware.And could bad luck alone explain why the second Tomb Raider film, Cradle Of Life, has posted disappointing opening figures in the US?Ancient curses aside, Lara's recent travails can mainly be ascribed to Core Design's failure to get to grips with programming for the PlayStation 2 and, as a result, both Core Design and its parent company Eidos are in a major bind.Core Design's future looks particularly bleak. Now that Tomb Raider has departed, it is known to be working on just one game, Fighting Force 3D, which, while mainstream, is hardly a blockbuster. Eidos owns Core Design, so if the developer goes into liquidation, the publisher will surely take a financial hit.Eidos has other woes, many of which stem from the Tomb Raider: Angel Of Darkness debacle. Angel Of Darkness just squeezed into the shops in America in time to be included in Eidos's year-end figures, but missed that boat in Europe. That, presumably, explains why Jeremy Heath-Smith fell on his sword.Releasing a game in July, a month in which nobody buys games, makes no sense, and the decision to rush a bug-ridden game out when it could have been tied to the August release of the second Tomb Raider film, and benefited from attendant cross-promotional possibilities, defies belief.Eidos appears to have become obsessed with America, which makes some sense, as the American market is the biggest in the world. But Crystal Dynamics will inevitably Americanise Tomb Raider - which is ironic when you consider that Lara was a linchpin of Tony Blair's old Cool Britannia campaign - thereby destroying any remaining credibility the franchise might have in Europe.A look at Eidos's portfolio for this year confirms a slide towards US-centricity. Backyard Wrestling: Don't Try This At Home and the game of Hollywood's remake of the Italian Job could be big in America, but are unlikely to do as well in Europe, while most of the rest of its titles are quality games that fall into niches.Apart from Tomb Raider, the company's biggest franchise is Championship Manager, but its developer, Sports Interactive, is, at the time of writing, in protracted negotiations with Eidos. Its previous contract to develop the game has expired, and rumours abound that there is some confusion over which company owns various rights, trademarks and intellectual property. Eidos could, undoubtedly, hand Championship Manager to another developer, but the franchise's fans are unusually   passionate, and that would be a dangerous move.Eidos clearly needs to refocus, and the first move in that direction will be an imminent rebranding exercise, primarily consisting of a new logo. Everybody hopes it manages to get back on track, as British games publishers are now so endangered they should be protected by the WWF.Compared with the likes of Electronic Arts, Activision, Sony and Microsoft, Eidos is a minnow, but it is still the biggest British publisher: Codemasters and SCi are its closest rivals. Codemasters just managed to convert itself from developer to publisher without going bust, but earlier this year, Rage - which tried to do the same - fell off the map.The likes of Electronic Arts would undoubtedly snap up the Tomb Raider and Championship Manager franchises, but it is doubtful they would retain much of the rest of Eidos. It would be a disaster for the British games industry if Eidos failed to pick itself up off the floor.
Midtown Madness 3Xbox, &#163;39.99 Microsoft, &#42;&#42;&#42;Although it lacks the style of the Grand Theft Auto series, Midtown Madness 3 is a solid urban driving game. Getting behind the wheel of one of the 30 cars on offer, your aim is to race around, doing chores as an undercover policeman.These normally involve basic delivery tasks or catching up with the criminal fraternity. And while these missions are relatively simplistic, the handling of the cars makes the game fun enough to play for a while.Unfortunately, a lack of variety makes the single-player option redundant too quickly. But the multiplayer mode drags Midtown Madness 3 into three-star territory. There are   plenty of choices that make this a great party game, although it is when going online with Xbox Live that the real fun is to be had. A simple interface makes it easy to find fellow players, and the unsophisticated nature of the racing is well suited to battling human opponents.By focusing on only two cities - Paris and Washington DC - Midtown Madness 3 has gone down the realism route. While nowhere near the scale of The Getaway's London, both Paris and DC are full of authentically recognisable locations. So if you ever wanted to take a wrong turn around the Champs Elys&#233;es or do a handbreak turn outside the White House, then MM3 is for you.Graphically, this is an above average Xbox game. The cars and cities have a crisp look, although the pedestrians are less impressive. If as much thought had been put into the single-player game as the multiplayer, then MM3 would have been a potential hardware shifter, rather than the solid city racing game it is.Greg HowsonAmerican Conquest: Fight BackPC, &#163;29.99 GSC/CDV, &#42;&#42;&#42;GSC has a particular way of doing realtime strategy, and the word is epic. We're talking big orchestral scores, micromanagement down to the gold running out in the middle of battle, and armies of 16,000 units per side. It's not to everyone's taste. So why does this stand-alone mission pack for American Conquest work so much better than the original?Fight Back covers the period 1517-1804 and adds 26 levels and five nations to the dozens we already had (which are included in the price). It makes no attempt to reduce micromanagement, which still goes through so many levels as to be a burden. Combine this with enormous maps that are constantly hidden by the fog of war, and multiplayer support for up to seven people, and you have an interface that always struggles to keep up with the gameplay.Yet despite this, Fight Back   succeeds because of level design. The new missions have much clearer objectives and far more freedom. There is also a new battlefield mode featuring 10 more levels played out in minute scale with identical forces - a nod to the Total War games, perhaps, but adding even more value to a game that will undoubtedly receive further support online.The biggest problem is price - not bad for one-and-a-half games, but still a tenner too much for those left cold by the original, especially when the publisher's website has given away whole campaigns free. The Cossacks formula worked fine in the 17th century, but isn't this the 21st?Mike AnderieszPro Beach SoccerXbox, PS2, PC, &#163;39.99 Wanadoo, &#42;&#42;&#42;Perhaps it was the success of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater that sent minor publishers scurrying around trying to sniff out obscure sports to turn into games. French outfit Wanadoo hit upon beach soccer, which is growing in popularity on the continent.In real life, beach soccer is a moderately diverting spectacle - five tanned, chunkier-than-average players on each side run barefoot around a sand pitch, producing the odd flash of skill and rasping shots propelled by oversized thighs and backsides.This style of play has been faithfully transported to the virtual world. The players are somewhat ponderous but, cutely, you can flip the ball up with one button-press, teeing it up for a shot, and each player has a skill move. There are power-ups, which seem somewhat unnecessary, the cut-scenes between quarters are awfully cheesy and the artificial intelligence is not credible, but Pro Beach Soccer is fairly enjoyable to play.Naturally, with only five players per side, it seems laughably simple and lacking in subtlety when compared with full-blown football games such as Pro Evolution Soccer (whose latest incarnation will arrive soon), but despite the round ball, it is really a different kind of game. Those who seek instant entertainment that can be consumed in bite-size chunks will appreciate it; others may find it too basic.Steve Boxer
"The challenge for health care professionals is to determine when high Internet use is dysfunctional, and whether unhealthy Internet use is a lone disorder or a byproduct of other disorders, such as manic depression. Writing in the current issue of the journal Depression and Anxiety, University of Florida scientists propose criteria to diagnose problematic Internet use that they formulated on the basis of their research findings and other available data."APhas the story.For the symptoms, follow the MOUSE:More than intended time spent online; Other responsibilities neglected; Unsuccessful attempts to cut down; Significant relationship discord because of use; and Excessive thoughts or anxiety when not online.
"Craigslist: The Movie will explore the people behind listings on craigslist.org, such as the Marin County man looking for a long-term romance or the advertising executive offering $100 to rent a miniature poodle for a commercial. The documentary will include commentary from Craig Newmark, who runs Craigslist with 12 other employees and a chief executive, Jim Buckmaster," reportsAP.
Mark Tranreports on the latest episode in the never-ending investigation of Microsoft by competition authorities. He writes: "The [European] commission, which has been investigating Bill Gates' company for four years, gave Microsoft a last chance to defend itself before demanding changes in the ubiquitous Windows operating system."News.comis running the full Reuters report, with quotes that suggest a fine is likely, and that the commission feels its case is very strong. Microsoft is likely to appeal against any punishment. Meanwhile, the company is under investigation in the US - again - over claims it retaliated against a computer company that wanted to sell machines with the Linux operating system.Update: More from theWashington Post.
A long-running battle between the European commission and Microsoft today came to a head as the EU body unveiled measures it wants to impose on the software giant.The commission, which has been investigating Bill Gates' company for four years, gave Microsoft a last chance to defend itself before demanding changes in the ubiquitous Windows operating system.Citing recently collected information from businesses across Europe and the US, the commission said its "preliminary conclusion is that Microsoft's abuses are still ongoing".The commission accused Microsoft of using its dominant position in PCs to gain advantage in low-end servers, computers that provide core services to PCs in corporate networks.On media players, used to play sound and video on computers, the commission said that Microsoft had two alternatives. It could either sever the link between Windows Media Player from Windows by either offering a version of the operating system without Media Player, or it could agree to include competing media players with Windows."Both solutions seek to ensure that consumers have a fair choice as regards media players," the commission said.Microsoft has indicated that it would take any negative ruling to the European court in Luxembourg, which has overturned a number of the commission's recent anti-trust decisions.If the commission really decides to throw the book at Microsoft, it has the power to fine the group as much as 10% of the company's annual revenues, equivalent to about £1.7bn.As Microsoft's battle with the EU reaches a climax, the company remains entangled in the aftermath of a landmark anti-trust lawsuit in the US that the company had settled. Last month, the state of Massachusetts said that it was investigating whether Microsoft had violated its anti-trust settlement with 18 other states and the federal government.Massachusetts said it would look at allegations that the company retaliated against a computer maker for promoting the rival operating system, Linux.Last month also saw the release of an official US government report in which justice department officials said that they "remain concerned" about the company's compliance with its anti-trust settlement with the government.In a report to US district judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, anti-trust enforcers said that they were unhappy with Microsoft's planned rates and royalty structure as the firm prepares to share some of its secrets with competitors.Under the terms of the settlement, Microsoft had agreed to offer its competitors "reasonable and non-discriminatory" terms of access to its secret codes to enable them to make software of their own that would be compatible with Windows, which has more than 90% of the PC operating systems market.
Given half a chance Daniel, who is 13, will spend up to 12 hours a day staring at a computer screen. He weighs 110kg (17st), has no friends at school, and has been in constant trouble with his teachers.The problem faced by Daniel (not his real name) is all too familiar in Germany, where a growing number of children are addicted to playing computer games or surfing the internet.In a desperate effort to reconnect him with real life his parents booked him into the Boltenhagen summer camp, Europe's first school for teenage computer addicts, where children are taught how to make friends, exercise and play games. The camp, on the Baltic coast, is run by an evangelical charity, but the course is funded by the German social security services and the children are from all denominations.Ute Garnew, the camp director, said the demand for the 60 places had been so high since it opened in February that parents, "really have to fight to get a place".There is only one computer on the site and the children are allowed to use it for only half an hour a day, and are not allowed to play games or surf the net."The children are not banned from using the computer, but they can only use it for a specific purpose, like sending emails to friends or writing a letter," Ms Garnew said.To some of the children, physical activity has been a revelation. "I like the volleyball the best and I want to keep playing when I get back to school, but I never played it before I came here," said Moritz. "If I get thin here then I want to stay thin when I get home."The children have a daily session with a psychologist, Dr Simone Trautsch, who begins with basic lessons about good   eating habits: children tend to snack rather than eat regular meals while sitting in front of the computer for hours."We have the whole spectrum of children here. In Daniel's case, he stepped back from society completely and lost the ability to interact with other people," Dr Trautsch said."On average he would spend four hours a day at the computer, and another eight hours watching TV. The parents bring their children up in the traditional way, the same way they were brought up, but they never had things like computers during their childhood."The children stay at the camp for 28 days, and their parents are invited to spend the last week with them, during which they are given information to help them be aware of the dangers.Ms Garnew said that almost all the children returned home with at least some of their self-confidence restored and determined to make some changes in their lifestyle."We had one girl here earlier this year who arrived weighing 130kg and had never had a single friend in her life. Here she lost a lot of weight and made three new friends. She went home with a new perspective on life."Children in Germany spend only four and a half hours a day at school, often coming home at about 1.30pm to an empty home. Many immediately sit down in front of a TV or computer for the rest of the day.At the camp, things are different. "At first it was a bit boring, as there was nothing to do, but now I really enjoy it and the therapy too," said Lisa, 14, from Berlin, who now gets up at 7am to go jogging for an hour before breakfast. "I am going to keep on doing the exercises when I get home, especially the leg and tummy ones," she said.
Online retailer Lastminute.com shrugged off the effects of the Iraq war and the Sars virus to announce an underlying third quarter profit of &#163;4.1m yesterday but played down suggestions that its improved performance could make it a takeover target.Chief executive Martha Lane Fox said the final quarter, which runs through the summer holiday season, was seeing strong sales, putting the company on track for its first overall profit before goodwill for the full year.Lastminute.com reported earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of &#163;4.1m for the three months to June, compared with an ebitda loss of &#163;1.9m in the same period last year.The company, which sells holidays, flights and gifts, now has 7.5 million subscribers to its email database, up from 5.6 million last year.Ms Lane Fox said that Lastminute.com was not encouraging takeover approaches. "We are not talking to anybody and we are not touting ourselves around," she said. "We are seeing huge growth, but of course we have an obligation to consider any deal put to us."The role of predator is one Lastminute.com has taken on itself this year, buying car rental company Holiday Autos for &#163;39.7m in March. Ms Lane Fox said she believed there was room for more consolidation in the online retail sector.Lastminute.com's shares have risen by about 78% since May and closed yesterday at a year high of 246p, up 16.5%.Yesterday's results were slightly above market expectations and the company said Sars and the Iraq war had a limited impact on its sales due in part to its diverse range of products. Rival site Ebookers, which makes 80% of its revenues from long-haul flight bookings, reported a second quarter loss of &#163;900,000 on Monday after being hit by a fall in demand.Lastminute.com derives only a quarter of its sales from long-haul flights.
Ben Hammersleyis obviously letting the Tuscan sun, landscape and culture go to his head (in a good way). Click on a link for the most literate explanation of an arcane technical dispute I think I have ever read. Lovely stuff (and he's in the Guardian this Thursday).
I knew by looking at the Z4 that it was always going to be too much car for me, in the instinctive way one knows that a woman is officially out of one's league. Looking along its swooping expanse of silver bonnet and listening to the throaty growl of its idling engine, I could tell that it probably already had a boyfriend anyway.Putting aside the fact that I was a little bit afraid of it, a convertible roadster is not exactly the ideal addition to a family of five. It only has two seats, so going anywhere in it means taking along a back-up vehicle for the rest of the crew. According to the literature the boot is big enough to hold two golf bags. I have never used the golf bag as a volumetric unit of measurement, but this seems to be a way of saying "surprisingly capacious", and when you have the top up the boot gets even bigger, automatically expanding into the space where the roof is stowed.I wondered if you could use this facility in reverse in order to compact a week's worth of recycling, but I never got round to testing it out.For most of the weekend I drove it around with one or another of my sons sitting in the passenger seat fiddling with all the mystery buttons, as a sort of reminder of why I'm not allowed to have a car like this in the first place.But a car review should not be about my chronic inability to enjoy anything ever. England is having its first top-down summer in a long time, and the Z4 is quite simply the fastest convertible ever made, at least in the strict sense that the roof goes from on to off in less than 10 seconds, at the touch of a button. There is no cover to fiddle with; not so much as a locking lever to twist, and therefore no possibility of arguing that there's little point in taking the top down because it's such a pain in the arse to put back on when it starts raining in 10 minutes' time. Before you can even open your mouth your passenger's little finger shoots out and - presto! - it's done.It's also fast in the traditional roadster sense, with a six-cylinder, 3,000cc engine and a top speed of 155mph. It is immensely fun to tootle around in, although I was never going to trouble the upper gears for long. The Z4 is a six-speed, which I think is a lot, even for a bicycle. Finding a stretch of road with the requisite number of car lengths of space in front to enable one to deploy gear six is no mean feat. When I finally got there my heart was pounding as I let the clutch out. I could feel my hairline receding in the wind. I glanced at the speedometer. I was travelling at exactly 72mph.For real driving enthusiasts the Z4 comes with a button labelled, simply, SPORT. On pressing this, the steering becomes more go-karty and the accelerator more responsive, giving one a more raw motoring experience, or at least a clever simulacrum of one. The SPORT button doesn't disable the electronically controlled, speed-related, power-assisted steering; it just adjusts the response.You can also turn off the Dynamic Stability Control, which regulates the speed of the wheels automatically to account for any loss of traction, although again it's not actually turned off - you're just increasing the threshold before it kicks in. Add to this the MSS engine-sound system, which "delivers enhanced engine noise into the passenger cabin", on the presumption that "aural bombardment is a desirable asset for most open-top drivers", and you begin to wonder if this is more of a roadster simulator than a roadster.Don't get me wrong; this is fine with me. The only time I activated the SPORT button while doing more than 60mph, I found myself stabbing my finger wildly around the centre console trying to turn it back off. There is something very comforting in the way the Z4 looks after you in nanny mode. From the second you sit down, before you have even put the key in, you can hear the CD changer quietly sorting through its six-cartridge magazine, to see if it's got anything you might like to listen to. Then the screen of the GPS navigation system pops up and shows you a map of your street (a feature costing &#163;1,755.00, and at that price unlikely to worry the A-to-Z people). The rear-view mirror's shape exactly conforms to the rear window, and shows no disconcerting slice of your own head when you look into it.From the moment the car arrived, however, I was troubled by a warning light with an incomprehensible graphic, sort of a goldfish bowl with an exclamation point floating in it, sitting on a bed of nails.Everything seemed fine, but I found its constant presence unnerving. What could it mean? It turned out that this was meant to be a profile of a tyre, and I was being warned of a difference in tyre pressure of greater than 2.5psi between the four wheels. I filled them all up, but the light stayed on. It was possible, said the man on the technical number, that I had a slow puncture. In the end it didn't matter, because the tyres are designed to run flat if necessary. All in all this car is probably safer than the estate we drive around in normally, which in comparison handles like a tractor pulling a sledge full of sand. Roll on mid-life crisis.
Out today:TypePad, a new weblog service from Six Apart, the company that produces the popular (but geeky)Movabletypeweblog system. The difference with TypePad is that it is very simple to set up, while still retaining many of the features which made Movabletype so attractive. I've been on the beta test of TypePad the last few weeks, and while I've not had as much time as I would have liked to play around with it, it feels very slick, and very powerful, compared to Blogger Pro, which we use for Onlineblog. I'd like to move Onlineblog to a new platform, especially now Blogger condemns Mac users to the ugly "lo-fi" version of their interface. TypePad looks a pretty strong contender. Anyone got any thoughts?
The veteran TV presenter Sir David Frost has been forced to come to the aid of Newsplayer Group, which distributes videos of his interviews, for the second time in less than nine months.Sir David, a non-executive director of Newsplayer, and chairman David Holdgate will invest a total of &#163;192,000 in the company as part of a 16.4m new share issue. Yesterday, the company said this was to ensure "the working capital available to the company and its subsidiaries will be sufficient for their present requirements for at least 12 months".The new stock, which represents 18% of the company's enlarged issued share capital, has also been placed with institutional and other investors at 4.5p each.Barry Llewellyn, a director and co-founder of Newsplayer, said the issue had raised more than &#163;740,000. He said this would be enough to tide it over until the increased revenues which have been forecast kicked in. Last month, the company signed a two-year agreement with NTL which will generate subscription and advertising revenue. It also expects to complete the acquisition of US company, Global Media Services .GMS is an audiovisual hosting, distribution and rights management company which offers email-based direct marketing. The deal should be completed this summer and make Newsplayer profitable by the end of the year.The company has claimed a refund of &#163;205,000 in research and development tax from the Inland Revenue. The claim, if successful, will give a further boost to its cashflow.Mr Llewellyn said: "We've cut our operational costs considerably, and we will shortly start to enjoy the benefits of our more diversified revenue streams."Newsplayer recently announced that annual losses had doubled to &#163;3.46m. This was despite a cash injection by Sir David in December when he agreed to extend a &#163;160,000 convertible loan to the company and forgo &#163;150,000 of royalties. Sir David already has 2m free share options exercisable at 50p up to 2011.Newsplayer owns the internet distribution rights to ITN and Reuters news archives, EMI music videos and 40 years of Sir David's TV interviews, which include six prime ministers and six US presidents. However, the group, which relies on customers accessing its archives over the internet, suffered from the slow take-up of broadband services.Shares in the group, which floated at 84p in 2000, were unchanged last night at 4.5p.
A worm that spreads through email is threatening to become one of the biggest viruses of 2003, antivirus firm Sophos warned today.The Mimail worm is disguised as a message claiming to be from the network administrator, telling the user that their email account is about to expire and urging them to read an attachment called message.zip. When opened, the attachment contains an html file that will infect the machine with the worm.Then the worm will send itself to the user's entire address book, spreading the same email to other computers.Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos Anti-Virus, said: "Mimail's author has gone to great lengths to disguise his code as a legitimate email."However, Mimail's text does leave a vital clue that it is a rogue email - business email accounts don't expire. Users need to think carefully before they launch any attachment, even if it does appear to come from a bona fide email address."Microsoft has warned its customers to download a security patch that will prevent the worm from exploiting a vulnerability in its operating system.Microsoft spokesman Sean Sundwall downplayed the worm's potential to cause major security problems. "The damage is simply an annoying e-mail," he said.The Mimail worm was first detected in the US on Friday. Sophos said its customer support team has seen a heavy increase in the number of reported infections since this morning."The Mimail worm is getting a second lease of life as UK businesses log on to start a new working week," said Mr Cluley."While US firms have been patching their systems against this threat, their UK counterparts have been enjoying a sunny weekend, blissfully unaware that a virus is sitting on their email system just waiting to be unleashed."
Back from sabbatical today, and catching up on my reading - and spam deletion. And it's good to see this blogging lark is catching on around Fleet Street. After the Times' tentative steps into the blogosphere earlier this month (sorry - they don't do a free archive), theDaily Mirroris getting in on the act with the launch of their iBlog, a tech blog which replaces the now-discontinued Amy's I column in the paper. "Nobody else does it", claimed the Mirror's new internet editor, Steve Purcell, in the Press Gazette the other day. Perhaps we should introduce him to that wonder of the blogosphere,Stephen Pollard, a freelance political journalist who spoke at last month'sVoxPoliticsevent at the House of Commons. He managed to boast - more than once - that he was the only national newspaper hack to have a weblog, while sitting in a room with quite a few... national newspaper hacks with blogs. All in all, I'm sure the arrival of us national newspaper scribes is going to do wonders for the blogosphere's notoriously lax standards of accuracy. Oh yes.
When news of Metallica's latest lawsuit hit the web, music fans across the globe were outraged. Already notorious for their legal action against file-sharing network Napster, the rock band were seemingly trying to stop musicians from using the guitar chords E and F.Announcing the band's decision to sue the obscure Canadian outfit Unfaith, the drummer Lars Ulrich said: "We're not saying we own those two chords, individually - that would be ridiculous. We're just saying that in that specific order, people have grown to associate E, F with our music."It was a classic David and Goliath story - obscure, unsigned band picked on by rich rockers - and it was widely reported. As Unfaith singer/songwriter Erik Ashley explains: "Within minutes, literally hundreds of message boards lit up, including those of legitimate music news sources."It turned up on Ananova and on DotMusic, on MSNBC, MacDailyNews and on weblogs. Industry insiders expressed their outrage in mailing lists, and music fans filled internet message boards with anti-Metallica diatribes. Radio stations played Unfaith's music in anti-Metallica protests, Rolling Stone magazine got in touch, and The Onion sent a message of support.But they missed one key detail: the story was a hoax. What looked like a bizarre action by out-of-touch rockers was in fact a spoof that within a few hours it had taken on a life of its own.Like any successful scam, the hoax worked for two reasons: it seemed believable, and it was beautifully executed. Metallica are well known (and frequently vilified) on the net for their legal tactics, and the story was posted on a perfect copy of MTV's news page. Because it looked like a genuine story and was written in the same style as MTV's other news stories, many net users didn't notice that the page was not on MTV's site; it even linked to an official statement on the Metallica website - again, a clever fake.In addition to making Metallica look stupid, Ashley's prank was an effective piece of viral marketing - something that raised awareness, not through advertising, but through "word of mouse" For now, Ashley's band is the most talked-about on the web. Similar word of mouse has worked with films, services and even salmon. A clever website turned the indie film The Blair Witch Project into a box-office smash, while John West Salmon's inspired adverts - the ones where West's "employees" were attacked by karate-chopping grizzly bears - became an unlikely internet cult. Then there's the success of the free email service Hotmail.As Justin Kirby, MD of viral marketing experts Digital Media Communications, says: "Hotmail simply added a short line of promotional text at the bottom of every message, and within 18 months signed up 12 million people for a spend of $0,5 m - so that's four cents per sign-up." Kirby describes these successes as "happy accidents" - accidents that marketers are keen to replicate. DMC's client list includes Diesel, Levi's, MTV and Virgin, and its campaign for Mazda is one of the most popular virals on the net."The campaign involves a video clip called 'parking' or 'women drivers', which takes an amusing look at one woman's response to White Van Man syndrome," explains Kirby. "It's struck a major chord - it's a universal theme, and it has generated millions of views that we can quantify."So is successful viral marketing a matter of sticking a funny video on the net? Kirby doesn't think so. "It should be a means to an end rather than an end in itself," he says. "Whether it's a video or a game, it has to be used to generate a buzz that helps shift a product. That's fundamental." It also needs to be considered "cool" by the net community, or it won't work, he says.Another key technique is seeding, which means getting the clip to the right people. Certain sites are much more influential than others, so, for example, a mention on B3ta.com or Fark.com can help kick-start a campaign. Viral marketing firms make it their business to know which sites work - and which ones don't. "We use tracking technology to see how far these video clips get spread as they're passed peer-to-peer as email attachments," says Kirby. "We've been able to assess which places can generate the most viral spread on the web. It has allowed us to identify which individual places - weblogs, sites, forums and so on - have the most influence."The most extreme example of this influence is known as the "Slashdot effect": a single mention on technology site Slashdot often results in more visitors than a website can handle. However, Kirby is quick to stress that getting coverage in the right places is no guarantee of success. "Certain people throughout the globe can help kick-start the process - but their influence is diluted after just two generations," he says. "After that, the end-users are judge, jury and executioner."Seeding viral campaigns may be a science, but creating the content is more of an art. "You never know if something will work until you've tried it," says Kirby. "And it may not happen when you want it to happen." No matter how well-planned the strategy is, if the content isn't up to scratch - or if it simply doesn't appeal to internet users - then the campaign is doomed.The film clich¿ "nobody knows anything" applies equally to viral marketing: as Kirby is the first to admit, "it can be so hit-and-miss." He warns that marketers should choose their partners carefully: while many advertising agencies will happily offer to carry out viral campaigns, there's a danger of hooking up with the wrong people. "It is difficult for the brands," he says. "The risk is that you get the wrong people to create it - people who don't really understand the culture - they may have created viral material, but have they done any marketing?"Viral marketing isn't dissimilar to the film business. Big-budget films that seemed like safe bets are frequently outperformed by independent "sleeper" hits, and it's the same online. For every Blair Witch Project there are dozens of films whose carefully planned viral campaigns failed to make any impact, and for every John West Salmon there's a collection of unfunny video clips languishing unloved in a dark corner of the web.Even the Metallica spoof was a fluke: a quick search of the web uncovers all kinds of Metallica parodies, spoofs and hoaxes, none of which has achieved the same prominence as Erik Ashley's effort. "I never expected the parody to reach as far and wide as it did," he says. "I'm just annoyed that this satire has done more for us in a day than three years of hard work and door-knocking ever did."
Top photography, leading brand names and a clear sense of style are just some of the qualities associated with glossy magazines. Now a new internet publisher is attempting to replicate this online. The challenge, of course, is that attitudes to and expectations of each medium differ markedly. But the London-based team behind what is now being claimed as the net's first glossy, F magazine, believes that with the spread of broadband the time for a new era in online publishing has come. F magazine is a multimedia magazine targeting 25 to 45 year-old urbanites. With its striking images and vibrant screen design it is an arresting mix of music, speech, photography, film and text and is available to anyone with access to broadband.Unlike many sites, however, the magazine features an old media-style approach to navigation. Readers are invited to move around the site by turning pages instead of scrolling through content, with page turns accompanied by the sound of a paper swish. Alternatively, they can take shortcuts via a contents page to features presented on double-page spreads.All content is streamed. Each double-page spread is, in effect, a flash movie. Which means "editorial" is, in fact, a series of self-contained multimedia productions rather than text accompanied by image. And the same applies to advertising which also plays an important role - both for commercial reasons and to underline the magazine's glossy, style-mag positioning.Advertisers, who buy either a single- or double-page spread, are expected to conform to F magazine's multimedia philosophy by making full use of broadband's potential. This provides them with a blank canvas: it's up to them how they use it to hold readers' interest as they flick past the ads to reach the next editorial page. Pop-up and banner ads, increasingly the source of frustration for many web users, are banned.Content currently available on the site includes features on musicians such as Nitin Sawhney, Dwele and Shola Ama, the surrealist Mark Ryden, and the Sicilian artist Ida Saitta. A recently introduced online jukebox, meanwhile, allows users to stream new and yet-to-be-released tracks from record labels, including Warner and Virgin, as they browse the site.The hope is that editorial and advertising working together create a stylish entertainment platform, explains F magazine co-founder Luca Bosurgi. Bosurgi, a venture capitalist-turned publisher, has developed F magazine with Chrissie Adams, a former model and founder of 90s fashion industry magazine New Generation."We've made a conscious decision not to develop e-commerce," he adds. "It's about keeping things pure and simple, and keeping our overheads down." And the approach appears to be winning approval from advertisers. Adidas, Beck's, Lee jeans and Harvey Nichols are among those currently using the site.The magazine's roots lie in a CD-Rom that Bosurgi and Adams created, which was launched as a magazine for students in 2000. "The content we were developing then was ideal for broadband but people just didn't have the internet access to allow them to view such high-level content via the web," he explains.So the pair regrouped and decided last summer to develop a new broadband version. Between them Bosurgi and Adams have since invested £400,000 in the current incarnation of F magazine, money that has covered investment in the technology needed to produce it and to secure access to a high-speed server based in the US.To date, day-to-day running of the site has been done on a shoestring, with the content co-ordinated by Adams and the music editor David Newell. With around 200 pages of editorial, images, audio and video, the magazine is intentionally designed as an evolving issue, Adams explains."We expect a shelf-life of around eight weeks per feature. All editorial has to be highly visual. What we do is create a multimedia package - a bit like producing a mini feature film - about a subject. We don't like text and try to use as little as possible. If you want to read more about someone, we direct you to their own site - we don't like clutter."When cash flow improves, Adams adds, the aim is to assign freelances to create a full-blown multimedia production for each feature commission. For the time being, though, most of the editorial is produced by Newell.The end result is undoubtedly glossy with striking images and hip brands. And the old-media navigational style also sets F magazine apart from its online competition. But to what extent does it represent a new opportunity for online publishing?Andrew Walmsley, founding partner of leading new media agency i-level, describes it as "an interesting attempt to come up with a different way of laying out a website". But, he cautions: "I always worry about people trying to replicate other formats on the web. One of the benefits of the web is that you don't have to turn pages and navigate in a linear way."Visually it's attractive and it does provide big spaces for an advertiser, which is appealing - if it can attract an audience, Walmsley adds. "It is a fact that on the web, interruptive &#91;advertising&#93; formats like this tend to get ignored unless there is a reason to look at an ad. But creating special formats for different online sites costs money," he says. "Again, it all comes down to size of audience."According to F magazine's figures it is attracting some 2,000 unique users each day, and covering its running costs. Bosurgi is confident this figure will grow thanks to recent promotional partnerships struck with BT Broadband and Lycos. Moreover, he adds, F magazine's target market is "streamies" - people who can't wait and won't wait for slow download from traditional websites.According to figures published by the national office of statistics last month, of the 47% of British households with internet access, 17% use the net via a high-speed broadband connection. Although a little-known consumer group in the UK, research recently published in the US by media monitoring company Arbitron shows this particular type of web user is better educated and more upmarket than the norm, and willing to spend more than average shopping online.In spite of all this, making money out of online-magazine publishing is notoriously hard. Established publishers have relied heavily on their print heritage to support online developments. And even long-standing online magazine Slate, which enjoys the unusual luxury of being backed by Microsoft, only recently began turning a profit - seven years after launch."F magazine's audience is still quite niche," observes Justin Taylor, senior media planner at OMD Digital, who is currently using it to promote Siemens' Xelibri mobile phones. "But you don't have to be as big as Yahoo to be an attractive medium. While they need to grow to make this commercially viable, it is still a creative, entertainment-rich experience."Danny Meadows-Klue, chief executive of the internet advertising bureau, has other reservations. "While there's a growing openness among advertisers to explore different types of communication, the reality is that for an advertiser to reach a large audience online they need standard formats able to work across all websites," he says.That's why the banner ad was once so successful. To grow beyond being a 1.4% medium online must become more accessible for marketers,  Meadows-Klue adds: "If this sort of exercise helps, great. But we're probably seeing the growth of standard advertising formats rather than bespoke formats now."
"Technically, one clear area of progress for the [Siggraph] festival was skin, long the bugaboo of animators trying to create photo-realistic humans. Dawn, a nymphet created by Nvidia, had skin matted with imperfections and dimples that notched her up several spots on the believability scale. But no one would ever take her -- or any of the other humans portrayed in the festival -- for real. The digital humans in The Matrix, [Darin Grant, chair of this year's animation festival,] noted, all wore sunglasses, saving the animators from attempting the impossible task of creating realistic eyes."Wiredhas the story....
"The flaws [in SMTP] are so severe, some now believe, that the protocol that gave rise to the most significant explosion in written communication since Gutenberg may no longer be capable of serving its purpose in a world of con artists, pornographers, virus authors and unscrupulous spammers," reportsCNet."You have to remember the era in which this protocol was designed," said Sluizer, the self-described "grandmother" of SMTP. "Back in the time we were doing this work, we were talking about hundreds or maybe thousands of sites on what was then called the Arpanet. We were looking at connecting with a few in Europe and some smaller networks in the U.S. "It was a trusted situation, and the protocols were developed on the basis of that trust. So it's very surprising to me that we are using the same protocols coming up on 25 years later, because you need different things in a commercial environment than you need in a research environment."Comment: Nice to see more people attacking SMTP, which I did in Online inJune. It's long past time to dump Sendmail as well.....
"The identity of Chi Mei's client for the smart phone was not disclosed in any of the documents published by the FCC, although images of the device are similar to those published on several tech enthusiast Web sites a week ago, which speculated that the phone will be sold by Motorola. The appearance of the images coincided with a report in the online edition of the Wall Street Journal that said Motorola was developing a handset based on Microsoft software," saysIDG News.
Tapwave, started by ex-Palm people, said "that its first devices, formerly code-named Helix, will be called Zodiac and will sell for $299 and $399. The $299 Zodiac will come with 32MB of memory; the $399 Zodiac will come with 128MB. The company will begin taking orders for the devices on its Web site in mid-September, said Byron Connell, senior vice president of marketing at Tapwave. The devices should be available by October. He said the devices will be sold in retail stores next year," reportsCNet.
"The e-mail that carries the worm has "your account" in the subject line, according to Symantec, and the body reads, "Hello there, I would like to inform you about important information regarding your e-mail address. This e-mail address will be expiring. Please read attachment for details." It is then signed "Best regards, Administrator" and contains an attachment labeled "message.zip" that carries the malicious code," reportsCNet.
"Microsoft's Web site was made inaccessible for an hour and 40 minutes Friday afternoon when a denial-of-service attack overwhelmed the site with traffic, making it impossible for legitimate page requests to get through," reportsTechWeb.Comment: Bad day on the Web yesterday: I couldn't get the Guardian site consistently in the morning, and Blogger wouldn't post anything. The McDonald's item time-stamped 11:27 AM certainly wasn't visible until much later....
The future of Lara Croft, the nubile virtual archeologist, has come into question this week after the Tomb Raider franchise was pulled from its founding home at Core Designs in Derby and moved to US-based Crystal Dynamics.The move comes in the wake of the departure of Core's founder, Jeremy Heath-Smith, and the continuously delayed release date of the sixth Tomb Raider title, Lara Croft Tomb Raider: Angel of Darkness. It certainly wasn't helped by the fact that when the game finally made it to the shops, it received widespread critical panning in the games press.It seems that not even Angelina Jolie and a pair of implants could bolster the latest Tomb Raider game, and Paramount Pictures have even gone so far as to blame Angel of Darkness for the poor opening figures of their new Tomb Raider movie, Cradle of Life.Lara Croft started out as a refreshing change, entering the small screen for 1996's original Tomb Raider and going on to become one of the most iconic figures in video gaming history. Famed for her kick-ass, no-nonsense attitude and her monster cleavage (rumoured to be the result of a mouse slip during the character's development), Lara has achieved more success than many real life models, fronting a drinks campaign, inspiring two films, and adorning the cover of The Face magazine. But could the pulling power of the erstwhile Ms Croft be coming to an end?"I don't think Lara can be brushed aside as a failed franchise, just yet," claims games journalist Mark Eveleigh. "Much like Sonic and Mario, she adorns the games industry as one of the leading figures and will undoubtedly live on as one of Eidos' flagship brands."Although she may not be as gun-toting and as tightly-clad as Lara, one woman who is about to make a very big impact on the games industry is Mie Kumagai, the new head of Sega's subsidiary company Hitmaker, and the first female president in the history of the company."I never played games before joining Sega," explained Kumagai in an interview on polygonmag.com. "I think the image of a female player isn't desirable in society, and I feel women need to be educated about the fun of games. The audience for them is wide and should include more women. Darts is a more conventional game, and it's enjoyed by women. At a local darts bar in Ikebukruo women represent 50% of the clientele and I want to break down the barriers around video games the same way."CompetitionIf you're a fan of Five's Law &amp; Order, how do you fancy play detective or district attorney yourself in the game of the TV series? That's exactly what you'll get to do in   Mindscape's Law &amp; Order: Dead on the Money for the PC. You can hunt down the criminals and then bring them to justice in one of the five copies we've got to give away this week, and you can win one by emailing us atonline.competitions@guardian.co.ukwith your name, address and the answer to this question.Which famous TV detective was nicknamed "the man in the dirty mac"?ChartsOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Pokemon Ruby (GBA) Nintendo - £29.992) Pokemon Sapphire (GBA) Nintendo - £29.993) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.994) Tomb Raider: the Angel of Darkness (PS2, PC) Eidos Interactive - £34.995) Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.996) Formula One 2003 (PS2) Sony -£34.997) James Bond 007: Nightfire (PS2, Xbox, GC, GBA, PC)8) SOCOM: US Navy Seals (PS2) Sony - £49.999) The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.9910) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.99
As we head into August, it seems an appropriate time to reflect on the best gadgets so far this year, and those worth looking out for over the coming months.Apple iPod(from £250)A predictable choice, but the mark two version of Apple's iPod hard disk MP3 player, with its new slim case and increased storage (30 gigabytes if needed) is still so far ahead of the competition that it demands to be included.Could this be the Walkman of the 21st century? Or has Sony got something up its sleeve?www.apple.com/ukPhilips Streamium MC-i200(£400)Full marks to Philips for being the first to debut a hi-fi system that can be incorporated into a home network to access internet radio stations and MP3 files stored on a PC.Once you have got past the slightly tricky setup procedure, it is very simple to use. MusicMatch's online service, which creates a mini radio station tailored to your listening preferences, is utterly addictive.www.Philips.co.ukPalm Tungsten C(£350)It might be shorn of some of the more fun applications that PDAs boast nowadays, but the Tungsten C is Palm's best handheld for quite some time.It boasts one of the highest-resolution screens on a PDA so far, features a simple to use keypad, and has excellent compatibility with both Windows PCs and Macs. Best of all, its Wi-Fi facilities are easy to use. Had Palm added Bluetooth, it would have delivered the most complete corporate PDA so far.www.palm.com/ukNetgear ME101 Wireless Ethernet Bridge(£60)For anyone with a wireless network at home, spending £60 on this gadget could represent the best investment of the year.It connects to devices with an Ethernet connector, integrating them seamlessly within a wireless network, and works brilliantly with the Xbox, Philips' Streamium and Beyond's Icebox Kitchen PC to name but a few.www.netgear.co.ukNEC e808y(£50)Although we are still waiting for the killer 3G handset, the NEC e808Y is a step in the right direction.It boasts all the functionality of its e808 sibling (video calling, news and sport downloads, Java games, a large screen and 64 megabyte internal memory), yet replaces that phone's rather cumbersome clamshell design with a much more appealing PDA-style flat shell.Add to all this Three's incredibly cheap monthly packages, and the e808Y has to be one of the bargains of the year.www.three.co.ukElectrolux Trilobite(£1000)Yes, it is expensive - but once you have witnessed this robot vacuum cleaner zooming around your home sucking up all your dust, you will wonder how you ever managed to live without it.www.electrolux.co.ukCreative Labs MuVo NX(cost to be announced)No self-respecting techie leaves home without a USB storage device dangling from their keychain. This excellent little gadget boasts 128 megabytes of memory, and also features an integrated MP3 player.uk.Europe.creative.comArchos AV300(£500)Video on the move is here, courtesy of a player that teams up a 3.8in LCD screen with 20 gigabytes of storage (enough for 80 hours of compressed video) and video and audio players. It is surprisingly watchable, too.www.archos.comSamsung SGH-V200(from £350)Along with the Sony Ericsson T610, this is first real threat to Sharp's GX10 in the cameraphone market. It is very compact, features an impressive camera, and sports an excellent quality screen.www.samsungelectronics.co.ukOlympus C-50 Zoom(£550)This is a really excellent five mega-pixel camera in a striking magnesium alloy casing. Unlike some previous Olympus digital snappers, it is very simple to operate.www.olympus.co.ukComing soonHandspring Treo 600:Compact PDA/smartphone using Palm's operating system. It is already receiving rave reviews on the other side of the Atlantic. Due out in October.Wireless B Media Adapter WMA11b:A neat gadget that wirelessly transfers MP3s and JPEGs from your PC to the TV/hi-fi. Due out in September.Nokia 6600:Potentially Nokia's best phone of 2003, the 6600 is a tiny smartphone crammed with facilities. Expected in October.Perstel Bluenote:A digital radio not much bigger than an audio cassette, and retailing for less than £100. In the stores soon.Sony Clie PEG-UX50:Sony's new take on the PDA sports a landscape clamshell design, a sizeable keyboard, and a screen that can rotate in any direction. Coming in the early autumn.
The Hire for Lower/Autos Abroad fiasco is a stark reminder of the benefits of paying for expensive items such as holidays with a credit card.Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, your credit card company is jointly liable with the supplier if there is a problem with goods or services - but only if the price of the item is between &#163;100 and &#163;30,000.It doesn't matter how you buy the goods or services - in a shop, mail order, by phone or over the internet - the protection is the same. The law doesn't apply to debit or charge cards, although some voluntarily offer protection.The Office of Fair Trading says this is one of the most useful consumer protection laws as it enables shoppers to make a claim from a credit card issuer if a supplier goes out of business or otherwise fails to give satisfaction.The &#163;100 rule applies to an individual item or several items sold as a set. So, if you spent &#163;200 on car hire or &#163;1,000 on a holiday, you're covered. But if it was four concert tickets costing &#163;30 each, you're not.There may be another way of getting your money back. If you buy something on plastic and the goods are faulty or don't turn up, contact your card company. They will go to the bank that deals with the merchant's credit card transactions and request the money back.The merchant's bank is obliged to credit the card-holder's account under rules laid down by the UK card payment systems. This process is known as "chargeback".But chargeback claims must be made within a certain period of time after the purchase. This can vary between about one and five months, depending on the card.
On Gartner figures for TCO (Total Cost of Ownership), there is not much difference between the cost of Linux and Windows XP. According to NewsFactor, for a structured worker [ie a clerk] using Linux, the figure is US$5,305, which falls to $4,402 for "locked" Linux [if users don't have root access]. "For structured workers using WinXP, the study calculates the cost at $5,148. For knowledge workers, Linux TCO is $6,101, and locked Linux is $5,062. For WinXP, this figure is $5,908. However, these costs do not include the cost of application development."Comment: Gartner is saying that Windows XP is slightly cheaper than Linux if the Linux users are allowed root access, and Linux is cheaper if they are not. So where are the numbers for Windows XP if users are not given Administrator rights, or is that not a viable scenario?
SMS text messages "won't be acceptable ways for Malaysian men to start Islamic divorces," reportsAP. "Reacting to an Islamic court's ruling last week approving a divorce initiated with a husband's text message to his wife, the government said Thursday it will tighten religious laws to bar the use of electronic messages in divorces. Under Islamic law, a husband can get a divorce by declaring his intention to his wife and then repeating his desire before a religious law judge.""Last week's ruling by an Islamic judge in Malaysia dissolving a marriage after the wife was notified by text message angered women's groups, which said that process is demeaning. Some Islamic scholars and government officials said it tarnished the religion's image."
Harvard Law School is planning to put more than a million documents from the Nuremberg trials on the internet, allowing ready access to records of the historic proceedings that probed the war crimes of Hitler's Third Reich.The multimillion-dollar project, whose initial phase is already complete, is the most ambitious effort to date to post Nuremberg trial documents on the internet, said Harry Martin, a Harvard Law professor and head librarian at the Cambridge-based school.More than 6,700 pages of material from one of the trials, known as the 'medical case' or the 'doctors' trial', which involved 23 defendants accused of doing harmful or fatal medical experiments on humans, have already been posted, Mr Martin said.The library was originally just looking for a way to preserve the documents, which have begun to deteriorate with age, and considered putting them on microfilm, but felt they would be more accessible on the internet, he said.He said the materials would be useful to legal scholars but they also provide a stark reminder of the horrors of the Holocaust."I think there is a tendency in some parts to want to put that behind us, to forget about it, to say it didn't happen. If you see the documents themselves, it's harder to say that," he said.Professor George Annas, an expert on medical ethics from Boston University School of Public Health who once sifted through the documents while researching a book, welcomed the project. He called it a "terrific service to the scholarly community and the advocacy groups"."It's an important resource, particularly for those who question whether the Holocaust really happened," said Steven Freeman, associate director of civil rights for the Anti-Defamation League in New York. "It documents many of the worst atrocities and offers the historical record in a way that is accessible to scholars and interested parties around the world."Some of the documents that will be posted have been readily available at universities, at the National Archives, and scattered on some websites, experts and academics said. But other documents have been harder to find, unseen by all but the most intent scholars.Peter Black, senior historian at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, said he hadn't heard of such a project before and it appeared that the Harvard Law plan "offers a large number of unpublished documents in a format that might not have been previously available."Susan Cooper, a spokeswoman for the National Archives, said the Harvard project would be a "huge achievement".Mr Martin said the scope of the Harvard effort to bring the documents out of their musty basement boxes and into cyberspace was unprecedented.He said the school, which began the project with a $100,000 (£62,000)  grant from an alumnus, is looking for additional funding to post the rest of the collection, which totals 690 boxes of documents, with an estimated 1,035,000 pages of text. The project could ultimately cost $7 million to $8 million, he estimated.The documents to be posted include trial transcripts, briefs, document books, and evidence files. The files include records from both the International Military Tribunal, in which military and political leaders of Nazi Germany were tried, and the United States Nuremberg Military Tribunals, which focused on other accused war criminals. The trials opened in late 1945 and continued until 1949.
"Later this year, a Chicago-area McDonald's restaurant will fry up hamburgers with an automated grill that dispenses patties directly onto the griddle from a separate freezer compartment, reducing labor and promising fresher sandwiches," reportsReuters.
"Cyber heroine Lara Croft is leaving Derby for a new home in the United States. Development of the successful Tomb Raider computer game series is being transferred from Core Design, based at Pride Park, to the California-based Crystal Dynamics. The decision was taken by Core's parent company, Eidos, and follows criticism of the latest game in the Tomb Raider series," reports theBBC.
The surprise announcement that BT is to consider installing ADSL at 500 exchanges it had previously written off as uneconomic will be cold comfort to the millions of people still excluded from BT's low-cost broadband service.For about 10% of the population, ADSL (asymmetric digital subscriber line) will always be tantalisingly out of reach. That's because the service only works up to about 5.5km from the local telephone exchange.Although BT is working to extend this, many homes in rural areas are simply too remote. Urban areas also have their ADSL black spots, either where houses are too far from the exchange or where the lines between the exchange and the home are not standard copper ones.But there are alternatives - apart from cable, which is unlikely to be available if you can't get ADSL. You may still be able to get a fast internet access by using a wireless service, from either a terrestrial mast or a satellite.The problem with terrestrial wireless services is that there simply aren't many of them. The good news is that coverage areas are increasing as existing operators expand and as more radio frequencies are auctioned off by the government.If you are lucky enough to live in one of the few areas where a terrestrial wireless service is available, the sort of service you can expect depends on the technology being used. The simplest is called a point to multipoint (P2MP) system: each customer is connected by a rooftop antenna to a single base station via a radio link, and the base station is connected to an internet service provider. BT is about to start a trial   of P2MP technology in Porthleven, Cornwall, using a system made by the Israel-based firm Alvarion, and a similar system is already being used by Firstnet, an ISP based in Leeds. Firstnet has a national 3.6-4.2GHz radio licence and offers its service in densely populated areas around cities including Leeds, Bradford, Nottingham, Reading and Coventry.Firstnet can offer broadband services to customers up to 10km away from any of its base stations, as long as there is a clear line of sight to the customer's premises. Roger Walker, Firstnet's systems manager, says its P2MP service has several advantages over a typical ADSL service."Along with an antenna, we install a speed box at each customer's site, so we can manage the service individually. We can offer two-way 512Kbps, 1Mbps or even 5Mbps services and we can even change the speed of the service in a matter of minutes," he says.Firstnet's 512Kbps service costs around &#163;40, higher than a typical &#163;27 ADSL service. But while home ADSL has a contention ratio (a measure of how many other customers are sharing the connection) of 50:1, Firstnet's contention ratio for this service is only 30:1. How does it compare to ADSL? "It's generally quite fast, but I have tried ADSL and I have to say that ADSL is better," says Aaron Brailsford, a Firstnet user from Slough.Firstnet is planning to exploit its national radio licence - which could be used for wireless broadband services - by expanding its coverage area over the coming months. As a result of the 3.4GHz spectrum auction on June 17, other services may start to appear. Such 3.4GHz   services could be available up to 25km from a base station.Since no radio licence is needed to use the 2.4GHz frequency to operate low-powered but low-cost wireless networks using the 802.11b standard known as Wi-Fi, these are popping up all over the place, despite the relatively low bandwidth of thefrequency. Kencomp Internet, based in Kendal, uses six base stations attached to television masts around Cumbria to offer a Wi-Fi service.Paul Haigh, the managing director, says each base station can deliver broadband to homes within a five-mile radius. "We're using 802.11b kit modified for outdoor use, and as we operate in rural areas and we have exclusive use of the TV masts for 802.11b, we don't get any interference." Kencomp offers a 1Mbps 100:1 contended service, with a minimum guaranteed speed of 600Kbps, for &#163;20 a month.If, like me, you live in an area where no terrestrial wireless services   of any type operate, then your only broadband option is a satellite connection. And although satellite internet systems are often thought of as the last resort - expensive, unreliable, ugly and not particularly fast - my experience is different. Some services cost the same as, or less than, terrestrial broadband services, speeds are often faster and I have had less downtime than many friends with ADSL. Ugly? I quite like the hi-tech look a satellite dish gives my cottage.Satellite systems come in two varieties: one-way and two-way. One-way systems use a normal dial-up internet connection from the home to the internet, with web pages, email and downloads returning via a roof-mounted satellite dish and a satellite decoder. Two-way systems receive and send data by satellite.Until recently, satellite equipment was prohibitively expensive for home users, but prices have fallen sharply, and a satellite decoder now costs as   little as &#163;60. Some satellite services can be received through a Sky mini-dish without interfering with the television service, so if you already get Sky TV, you may not need to buy another dish. Using a mini-dish, Hampshire-based Silvermead offers a 512Kbps service for &#163;29.99 a month with a 30:1 contention ratio, or a 1Mbps service for &#163;39 a month.With satellite, it is also possible to get "bandwidth on demand": faster connection speeds when you are in a hurry.SatDrive, the Hampshire-based company I use, offers a service that can be shifted through a series of gears during downloads to a theoretical maximum of 16Mbps. I have downloaded a 4.5MB file in under 15 seconds. Try doing that using ADSL!The catch is that each time you go up a gear, you pay an additional few pence for each megabyte downloaded. SatDrive has a relatively high start-up charge of &#163;399 including equipment, but costs only &#163;14.99 a   month (excluding higher-gear download charges).Two-way satellite services are far more expensive than one-way, but the prices are also falling fast. Silvermead, for example, is preparing to launch a 512Kbps download/128Kbps upload service for &#163;59.99 a month. However, a two-way dish installation will cost &#163;999.So why bother with terrestrial wireless services if satellite - particularly one-way satellite - is so wonderful? The main disadvantage of satellite is the high latency - the time it takes for data to travel the 44,000-mile return trip from the internet up to the satellite and back to earth.This causes a delay of between half and three-quarters of a second before data starts arriving - a relatively long time compared to the latency delay of about 10 milliseconds typically experienced with ADSL or terrestrial wireless systems. This isn't a problem during a big download, when you don't notice an extra half-second. But the delay does make online gaming and video conferencing impractical. Web browsing, too, is still annoyingly slow: the half-second delays add up when you jump from page to page.Many satellite services also impose a severe limit on the amount of data that can be downloaded - typically about a gigabyte per month. File downloaders with ADSL can download a gigabyte a day. With one-way services, the telephone line is tied up when the satellite system is in use.Over the next few months, other promising alternatives to ADSL may emerge. BT is beginning trials of a technology called mesh radio in September, using a 5.8GHz system   developed by the Essex-based Radiant Networks. Mesh radio networks link customers using roof antennae, so that data can "hop" up to two kilometres from rooftop to rooftop, from a base station to an outlying customer.Also, Scottish and Southern Energy is holding commercial trials of a system that uses electricity lines to deliver 1Mbps connections to homes. Denis Kerby, a spokesman for the company, says that if the trials are successful, the &#163;29.99 a month service could be launched as early as next year, and may be franchised to other electricity companies.Further out, there's a new standard called 802.16a, which is backed by a group called Wimax (World Interoperability for Microwave Access), including Intel and Nokia. This will enable M2MP services to offer ADSL-like wireless connections to hundreds of homes within 50km of a single base station, without the need for a clear line of sight. But 802.16a-based Wiman services - wireless metropolitan area networks - are unlikely to appear until 2005 at the earliest.Of course, there is another way to get broadband internet access: a service calledThe Cloudhas installed Wi-Fi hotspots in 1,000 pubs throughout the country. So if you are feeling thirsty and need a fast connection, the best way out of the broadband wilderness may simply be to pick up a laptop and head for the pub. Access costs &#163;6 an hour, drinks not included.LinksBT ADSL availability checkerwww.bt.com/broadbandwww.adslguide.org.uk/availability/btprereg.aspWireless broadbandwww.firstnet.net.ukOne- and two-way satellite serviceswww.silvermead.co.uk&#183;Send comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
When you live in a deep, dark wood at the bottom of a bumpy lane, you get used to doing without services, even in the booming city of Leeds.No newspapers, late post and delivery drivers ringing on their mobiles to say "Where on earth are you?" And as for the internet - bust junction boxes, fallen branches bringing down wires and something mean called "Dacsing" (BT making us split our line with someone else to the disadvantage of all concerned).No one is going to dig cables down here, either; which is how Jamie Gardiner comes to be striding across the lawn with his ladders and a square antenna on a pole. Can Firstnet hook up this particle of the Guardian to the main office, at a speed of rather more than our current 32-43.5Kbps.Its solution is "wireless" broadband, a term comfortingly reminiscent of the BBC Home Service for the middle-aged. The question of whether it should be installed turns on the equally old-fashioned matter of trees, specifically a dense yew that has long outgrown its original role as part of a hedge.From his laddertop, Gardiner shouts like a modern Lord Nelson in a crow's-nest that he "still can't see Idle". This is bad news. On the 0870 phone number, the first point of contact for would-be users of Firstnet's wireless internet service, our postcode suggested that we were close enough to a mast in Idle, a Bradford suburb, to be OK.Firstnet's 24-hour people, who also run the postcode test on theirwebsite, warned that the next step was to test the line of sight,    which was what its engineer, Gardiner, was doing. "We  can ignore the trees when you're as near as this," he shouts from his rooftop perch (one client connects with a mast through his house walls, both main stands at Leeds United's Elland Road stadium and a hill), "but I want you to have the best signal possible."There's still the chimney; and that's   where Gardiner finds his sightline, with the nearly metre-long antenna stuck on a 2.5m pole and strapped to the stonework (advantage: no drilling and no threat of damp and leaks). Next comes a simple wire link to the small speed box - easy to tuck away in a corner or on a shelf - and our Apple downstairs.But what about the much-talked-  about Wi-Fi, so that Northern news can be relayed to the Guardian from anywhere in the house (two student sons and Mrs W are also heavy internet users)? Or even from a deckchair on the lawn? That's no problem technically, say Gardiner and Roger Walker, the manager at Firstnet control. But there are one or two things I should know.Lorne Campbell, the photographer today, pricks up his ears at the notion of a Wi-Fi "pool" of internet reception, based on my house, being used by anyone parked outside, unless I spent extra on security. His agency, just down the road, could send a van disguised as the gas board and download pictures free all day. It would cost me in speed of connection rather than money, but speed is what this is all about.There's also a potential issue, if we are all going to "dewire", of Wi-Fi replacing the Leylandii hedge as a cause of neighbours' disputes. If next door and up the road also get Wi-Fi "pools", criss-crossing and other reception issues could arise.More immediately, there is the question of money. The antenna to Idle would cost &#163;170-odd for installation, then &#163;34.99 a month, roughly double the sub we pay to Virgin 24/7. Wi-Fi comes extra. And we would be changing email addresses, a very major pain, unless we carried on paying Virgin for the luxury of keeping our current ones.Hence a pause for thought, although Firstnet's efficiency and speed (30 installers working pretty much all the time) is tempting. And the prospect of 512Kbps is the stuff of dreams. If we can get our hideous tangle of phones into the package (currently there are four separate lines for computer, home and office phones and fax), I warn the crows who live in our chimney pots: look out, an antenna is coming.
Postal voting looks set to become the norm for local elections, following electoral commission recommendations - but online voting still needs more testing.The commission found that pilot studies of postal ballots in last May's council elections had helped boost voter numbers, in one case more than doubling the turnout.It added there was "only very limited evidence" of increases in fraud linked to the use of postal voting.It recommended that all local elections should be run as all-postal ballots, provided that a number of safeguards are put in place. These included switching from a household to an individual registration system, and introducing staffed delivery points for postal ballot papers.However, the commission also concluded that more testing and technical improvements were needed before electronic voting was introduced.The Shape of Elections to Come, the commission's eagerly awaited report, is an assessment of the biggest test of new voting methods in this country.It studied the result of studies in 59 areas, where 6.4 million people were eligible to vote.Results showed that in the 32 all-postal ballots turnout was 49% - which was 14% more than the national average turnout in the May elections.In Sunderland, one of the pilot areas, turnout had more than doubled since the last local elections from 22% to 47.7%However, the study found little evidence of increased turnout in the areas that had tested electronic voting; in two turnout actually dropped by more than 8%.It said: "We are clearly some way from the prospect on an e-enabled general election."Local government minister Nick Raynsford said the commission's findings would be considered "extremely carefully".He added: "The government is committed to modernising the electoral process and making it easier to access and more in tune with how people live their lives today."
The Inquirerhas some reader feedback.... though it would be even more interesting to hear from movie makers using dual 64-bitBOXXworkstations.
"A Rolling Stones concert today in Toronto will be made possible in part thanks to wireless technologies, according to Todd Griffith, IT specialist for the band," reports ComputerWorld.
Elder Scrolls 3: Bloodmoon (requires original Morrowind)PC, &#163;19.99 Bethsead/Ubisoft, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Bloodmoon is the second expansion pack for Morrowind, the mighty, yet flawed, role-playing game from last year. Morrowind was frustratingly close to greatness, a stunning freeform island setting that let you go anywhere and created an environment fit for exploration. It was easy to spend hours wandering around, chancing upon dungeons and hidden goodies. And the huge amount of character customisation meant RPG stat-heads were in heaven. Sadly, some overly brown visuals and rigid, unrealistic in-game characters detracted from the atmosphere.Bloodmoon does much to rectify these problems, creating an essential add-on pack for the original Morrowind. Set on a snowy island, north-west of the original, Bloodmoon is full of boars, wolves and hostile inhabitants. As before, players areallowed to explore leisurely, but this time around, the combat is lot tougher. Enemies now attack in groups, making Bloodmoon only recommended to those who have played the original game and whose characters are at a higher level.Luckily, the rewards are worth it, with new armour, weaponry and some awe-inspiring sights a real incentive to persevere. The main quest is more focused than before, although during its course you will visit the entire island. But it is one side-quest that involves organising a mining operation, which really breaks the mould.Here you can do much more than   simple delivery or hunting chores. Throw in the ability to become a werewolf, which helps but also hinders, and the atmospheric snowy Nordic environment, and you have a worthy add-on pack. Bloodmoon is essential for all Morrowind players.Greg HowsonA Tale In The DesertPC (Online), Free download  from www.atitd.com $14 (£8.70) a month, 	eGenesis/eGenesis, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;A Tale in The Desert is something of a social experiment. It gives players a vast untapped world, in this case ancient Egypt, and lets them explore and unfold the resources and challenges, form their own guilds, make laws and see what happens. The results are fascinating, not least because unlike most massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPG), A Tale in the Desert does not feature traditional combat. Instead, it is about creation, strategy and community.You arrive as a stranger, cast adrift in a massive land. The game operates a useful mentoring system, which allows experienced players to teach newcomers the ropes. The idea is to   join a community, start farming, mining and generally create your corner of an emerging civilisation.Much of the game is themed around the ancient Egyptian "Seven Disciplines of Man", which were thought to bring eternal life to those who could achieve perfection in all. Throughout the land you will find schools and universities offering each discipline where you can learn lessons and skills, to help advance materially and spiritually. You can follow one particular discipline or dabble in all seven, but one thing is certain: you won't be able to do it alone.Although spinning flax, raising sheep or cultivating wine might sound a little hippyish, it makes a highly refreshing change from the usual MMORPGs. The graphics and sound could be polished up, but the community aspect makes for a very friendly environment. The world of ancient Egypt is a rich, vibrant and unspoilt place.Rhianna PratchettNeverwinter Nights: The Shadows of UndrentidePC, &#163;19.99 Bioware/Atari, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Although well respected, Neverwinter Nights never acquired the same levels of devotion as Bioware's other role-playing game epic, Baulder's Gate. This was a shame, as it was full of good ideas - some of which are improved in this add-on pack.Shadows is still unmistakably Neverwinter, with the same Version 3 dungeons and dragons playing rules and an engine that may be less pyrotechnic than the likes of Diablo 2, but packs in far more detail and atmosphere. And although it plays in real time, the sheer variety of spells, commands and moves at your disposal once again takes some getting used to.As far as gameplay is concerned, expect another 20 hours-plus of intricate problem-solving, exploration and, of course, combat. There are new classes of hero, 50 new spells and massive new locations, with some graphical enhancements for owners of the original.There are other characters to help you, two full campaigns, and an expansion of the ability to construct your own dungeons and invite online players to try their luck. Bioware never disappoints with its storytelling ability and, once again, the dialogue and cut-scenes are top notch.However, there is little to tempt back gamers who found the original Neverwinter too much hard work. The interface remains complex, and while devoted fans are rewarded with a subtle and flexible combat system, more casual gamers will find it a bit "beardy". Do you really want a game where every battle has to be carefully thought out in advance, with constant use of the pause button in mid-stroke to rethink your strategy? Well if you do, then nobody slays 'em like Bioware.Mike Anderiesz
It doesn't take a survey to show that jargon puts people off, but AMD's discovery that it stops people buying new
    products might worry the industry more.Jargon starts out as a shortcut; if we give a technology (say, Bluetooth) a
    name then we don't have to explain what it is every time. Having a technical term for the technology means it won't get
    confused with other similar technology (say, Wi-Fi). If you know what jargon means, it is not meaningless jargon or
    Pseuds' Corner pedantry, it is precise description.But not everyone does know, and the latest buzzwords define who's in and who's out. Using jargon to define a social
    group turns into being technical for the sake of it, excluding and confusing mainstream users and consumers. 
    That's not always a bad thing.Putting technical jargon in a document is a way of flagging who it is for: if you don't
    understand the difference between a bastion, a firewall and a DMZ, you shouldn't be implementing your company's
    security policy.You can't simply banish technical terms from technical documentation, because differences matter.
    FireWire and IEEE 1394 are used interchangeably and that's not usually a problem, because FireWire is the
    implementation of the standard you will come across most often.But Sony's iLINK is also a 1394 implementation and you
    can't use that indiscriminately because a FireWire cable has six pins and an iLink cable only has four. 
    All too often, the problem is jargon going walkabout.If I talk about disambiguating a reference in code, that's a valid
    technical term. If I talk about disambiguating anything in normal conversation, it could either be a joke or very clumsy
    language. Or it could be a way of making what I'm talking about sound more impressive than it actually is.Hewlett-Packard's Carly Fiorina believes IT companies have deliberately tried to make technology sound complicated,
    using technology terms rather than business terms. If you are in business, you care more about what IT can do for you
    than how it does it. That does not mean details don't matter, but if you can't explain what a product does and why it
    matters in plain English, maybe it is not as important as Three Letter Acronyms and oddly capitalised tradeMarks make
    it sound.It is not just technical jargon, either. In the 18th century, knowing Greek and Latin was a sign of success; English bears
    the imprint of words coined more to show off than because anyone needed a new term and we are still using them to
    sound more important.Some phrases are meaningless not because they're too technical but because they're general to the point of cliche.
    Telling me a product is "designed to" do something says nothing about what it actually does or whether it's any good at
    it, and you'd hardly assume the feature got there by accident.In everyday English, a car breakdown service gives you everything you need; in computing terms it would be a box of
    spare parts, a list of instructions and some warning lights. Jargon may have its place but it never replaces knowing what
    you want to say and saying it clearly.
When bank managers move from one branch to another, they see the same computer screens. When doctors move from one NHS hospital to another, they almost always change IT systems as well. Scarcely any two NHS hospitals run exactly the same combinations of computer software and hardware.Some people think such local diversity encourages innovation. Others think it's bonkers. Over the past year, the bonkers brigade has been in control. The NHS National Programme for IT, supported by &#163;2.3bn in new funding, is about to place contracts to create a standard set of NHS programs. The new systems will be run by a single contractor appointed in each of   five geographical regions of England. (Scotland and Wales run their own IT.)These new contractors will be in a different league from most of today's IT suppliers, which are now scrambling for survival. Last week, the two largest UK-based healthcare systems firms, Torex and iSoft, announced plans to merge under the iSoft name.The new firm will have more than 40% of all main hospital systems in the NHS. According to specialist market researcher Silicon Bridge, its nearest rival US-based McKesson has just 14%. (Almost unbelievably, 6.4% of NHS hospital systems were developed by the NHS itself.)Torex and iSoft said the merged group will "provide the necessary expertise and experience to participate more fully in the &#163;2.3bn NHS   modernisation programme". This is true, but it glosses over the fact that the new company, with a market capitalisation of &#163;700m, will still be too small to lead any of the new contracts.In fact, there is no guarantee that it will get any of the new business at all. iSoft is a member of two out of the 27 consortia "long listed" for the new service contracts, led by EDS and Patni. Torex bid on its own, knowing that it would not be eligible, but to ensure that it would not lose out on any subsequent NHS deals through prime contractors.iSoft will know its fate pretty quickly: the first of the new contracts, for London and north-east England, are to be placed by the end of October, the following three by the end of the year.Of course, even if the firm loses out entirely, it will not just disappear. It will still have a business supporting existing software (bits of which are found in 70% of NHS trusts) until - and if - the new service providers decide to replace it.But both iSoft and Torex were creations of a specific time in NHS history, when large IT firms were deserting a moribund NHS market. iSoft was born as a courageous management buy- out from KPMG's old health systems department; Torex grew by acquiring cottage-industry firms along with the UK business of a large US-based firm, SMS, when it gave up on the NHS.But now, the big boys are back in town, which ain't big enough for all of them.
HandheldsGPS handheldThe first personal digital assistant to include integrated GPS (global positioning system) technology will be in UK stores within six weeks. The &#163;500 Garmin iQue 3600 is a conventional handheld that runs Palm's operating system. It can display map information on its 54x81mm screen and includes automatic route calculation and turn-by-turn voice guidance. Its traditional PDA-type features include organising software, an integrated MP3 player, voice recording facilities and an SD card expansion slot. It has 32MB of storage, runs off a 200MHz ARM processor and is powered by rechargeable batteries.www.garmin.comWi-Fi cardsOwners of PDAs such as Hewlett-Packard's iPaq h2210, O2's XDA and Palm's Tungsten T2 who want to add Wi-Fi functionality to their handhelds have not got long to wait. SanDisk has announced the imminent arrival of a tiny SD card featuring Wi-Fi facilities that fits into the SDIO card slot of many existing PDAs. Due first is a version that uses Microsoft's Pocket PC operating system, which will retail for around $129 (no UK launch or price details yet), while a Palm SD Wi-Fi card and its accompanying drivers will follow in November. SanDisk is also lining up cards that combine Wi-Fi functionality with additional flash storage. These are due to go on sale by the end of the year.&lt;A HREF="http://www.sandisk.com"Moving soundsMini MP3Creative Labs has unveiled the latest version of its MuVo tiny key chain-style MP3 player. The new model, the Nomad MuVo NX, features its predecessor's integrated USB socket for direct connection to PCs, yet Creative has added a blue backlit LED display, a built-in microphone for voice recording and armband and belt clip attachments. The player is accompanied by a snap-on MuVo memory battery cartridge. Due on sale next month for &#163;120, the model can store up to four hours of MP3 tunes on its 128MB memory. Creative could soon have serious competition in the tiny MP3 player stakes from Korean companies Eratech and Station Z. They have combined to develop a player they claim is no bigger than a very large coin. Just 10mm thick and 42mm in diameter, the EMP-Z will come with a headphone attachment that includes a remote control and a USB connector. It goes into full production next month, with a European launch on the cards for the end of the year.http://uk.europe.creative.com&lt;A HREF="http://www.eratech.co.kr"Digital photosPrint optionsCamera specialists Jessops this month launches 90 digital photo kiosks around the UK. Customers will be able to download their pictures at high-street stores from their camera's memory card and select the size, quantity and finish of the prints. The large bandwidth required to process high-quality pictures in such volumes will be provided by telecoms company Thus, originally a spin-off from Scottish Power and now owner of the Demon internet brand. Prices are from 15p per print for next-day service based on 6in x4in for 40 or more prints.www.jessops.comwww.thus.co.ukMobile phonesBT on the moveBritish Telecom this week announced its plans for a cheaper alternative to standard mobile phone calls. Its dual-band Wi-Fi and GSM handsets will allow calls made near wireless hotspots to be routed via the phone's Bluetooth to fixed lines. The first to try out the Sony Ericsson Bluephone will be BT staff and some business customers and it should be available in shops next year. As well as being able to make calls over BT's fixed network, the handset will also make web browsing and data services much faster. BT also this week announced its Mobile Home Plan together with T-Mobile. The service will be targeted at families and should be available this autumn.   BT sold its mobile phone division in 2001 and the announcements mark its return to the mass handset market.Samsung callingSamsung's V200 camera phone could be the model that starts to give the South Korean company the profile here that it enjoys in Asia. Weighing only 96g (compared with 107g for Vodafone Live's Sharp GX 10), the V200 crams in everything you want in a mobile (except Bluetooth short range wireless links) into a very compact clamshell.It may not win any design prizes for its protruding aerial and thumb-controlled dial to change the camera angle but that doesn't affect its functionality. The 180-degree rotating lens is perfect for those wanting to take self-portraits, though the thumb wheel on my model was stiff.The clamshell design means space   for the key pads is more than adequate, and the one-press buttons for the camera and (quite speedy) web access were very practical. It has GPRS, plus embedded luxuries such as multimedia messaging, triband reception, infra-red and USB connectivity not to mention polyphonic ringtones by the bucketful.Samsung is so impressed with this phone that according to the Wall Street Journal, it has banned staff and visitors from using it in parts of its factories for fear of industrial espionage. The Sony Ericsson T610 (reviewed last week) beats it on weight, looks and Bluetooth, but the V200 is a formidable and competitive phone in the exploding camera phone sector. Get it from Carphone Warehouse now at &#163;279.99 (pay-as-you-go) or upwards of nothing on monthly contract.Stat of the weekMedia switchingResearch from UCLA's centre for communication policy has found that experienced web users watch less TV. Although experienced users spend an hour less each week reading newspapers than non-users, they spend 48 minutes reading newspapers online.
What is "cool"? From my hourly observation of website design, it's anything that puts undue emphasis on visual appearance and technical trickery to the detriment of accessibility and usability. "Cool" designs are the ones produced by the clueless designers that, two weeks ago, I somewhat generously called "decorators with keyboards".Contrary to one misreading of that little diatribe, I have nothing against websites looking good. I want them to look as good as possible. However, when functionality and usability are sacrificed for appearance, the result is bad web design, even if the same thing would "look good" in a book.Indeed, the root of the problem   is the idea that a web design is just print design with add-on multimedia and dynamic effects.For a working example of how "cool" design can be dysfunctional, try Matthew Somerville's "usable" version of the Odeon website before looking at the original (See links above, from NTK.net). Also try changing the size of the browser window and the text size on both.Worryingly, some of the worst examples of really bad web design are on web design sites. Googling at random, I hit "an award-winning globally recognised design firm that specialises in high-impact web design". Its home page has a 3D ring of five red discs in the bottom left-hand corner. They have no labels so you don't know what they do. Put the mouse over each disc, and its function is   slowly spelled out at the bottom of the page: mission, approach, contact and so on. And since it is all done in Flash, it takes ages to load.Anybody with a functioning brain and a text editor could have made a simple list that would have been easier to understand, easier to use, faster, and would have worked in any browser whether on a PC, a PDA or a mobile phone. But no, that would have been too easy. They had to think of a "cool" way to do a menu. The result may even impress another three or four clueless web designers, but for everybody else, they have made their site worse.This is a small example, but the same thing happens at every level of "cool" design. Just look around.If you give a child the job of   designing a car, you can expect to get a creative drawing of something colourful and it may superficially look "fast" - just don't try to put it into production.You don't expect children to put their designs through wind-tunnel tests, or make sure they have readable dashboards and usable controls, meet safety laws, are economical to run and can be manufactured for an acceptable price. That's why you have the job done by professionals who understand the technology.The problem with website design today is that most commercial sites are designed by people who are, essentially, children. They can do you fancy grilles, big fins and whitewall tyres, but they can't do real web design because they don't understand how the web works.Useful linksMatthew Somerville's Odeon rewritewww.dracos.co.uk/odeonOfficial Odeon sitewww.odeon.co.ukReal world accessibilitywww.trinity.ox.ac.uk/accessibility_statementNeed To Knowwww.ntk.net/2003/07/25
Hi-de-Wi-FiLooking to go somewhere a bit different for a last-minute break? Next week's Chaos Communication Camp, in Altlandsberg, near Berlin, is best imagined as a German version of Glastonbury, without the bands, but with better wireless connectivity. The event is organised every few years by the Chaos Computer Club. A day pass costs &euro;20 and gives you access to talks on spam blocking, writing plug-ins for the Gimp, plus "Nazi UFOs and other realities".It finishes in time for open source enthusiasts to catch most of this year's Linuxbierwanderung (literally, "Linux Beer Hike") in the mountain village of Tajov in Slovakia the following week. Should you prefer the charms of Brighton, tickets are on sale for September's Back In Time all-day celebration of the Commodore Amiga and C64, featuring retro games tournaments and an acoustic performance from some of the most acclaimed game-music composers of the 1980s.www.ccc.de/camp/2003www.linuxbierwanderung.orghttp://c64audio.valuehost.co.ukwww.linuxbierwanderung.orghttp://c64audio.valuehost.co.uk/live/bitl4Odeon reloadedAfter publishing a more accessible version of the National Rail site's Live  Departure Boards (omitting its JavaScript, frames and pop-up windows), lone usability advocate Matthew Somerville has turned his attention to Odeon cinemas. He estimates that his self-updating version of Odeon's site may be up to five times faster than the original, largely by ditching the JavaScript and, in particular, those fiddly little scroll bars. At the time of writing, Somerville had yet to hear Odeon's reaction to his improvements, though one   hopes it will be as fanatical about the user experience as it claims to be about film.www.dracos.co.uk/railwaywww.dracos.co.uk/odeonAssassinate ArialFirst it was Microsoft's Comic Sans, now some graphic designers are bemoaning the popularity of the Windows Arial font, compared with the time-honoured Helvetica, which it loosely resembles. Traditionalists can vent their rage in a game described as Typeface Smackdown, in which a lone Helvetica character has to jump on a pugnacious Arial to let it know "we don't need its type around here". It's becoming the web's most popular font-based animation since last summer's Behind The Typeface documentary on the history of Cooper Black, the chunky serif face immortalised by the Beach Boys.www.ms-studio.com/articles.htmlwww.mimeartist.com/helveticawww.cheshiredave.comSpuds u trackHoping to correct the impression that supermarkets are full of produce gratuitously flown in from South Africa and New Zealand, Waitrose has launched almost certainly the UK's first nationwide website for tracking potatoes. You type in the code on the bag, and the site serves up the farm it came from, a photograph and its organic credentials. It's not much use on other groceries - or if you'd prefer to select your spuds by hand rather than in a prepacked e-bag, but it could prove invaluable in the event of a localised outbreak of mad potato disease.www.growingtrust.com/waitroseWhacking onHis Perrier 2000 runner-up Are you Dave Gorman? went on to become a book and a TV series, but the eponymous comedian is determined to prove, in his new Edinburgh Fringe show, that he does, in fact, know how to use a search engine. Dave Gorman's Googlewhack Adventure documents the ostensibly pointless hobby of finding two-word search terms that produce only one Google result, and the far-off places and unusual people Gorman always seems to run into along the way. For a more cynical take on the ongoing commercialisation of the Fringe Festival, the spoof programme compiled by seething commentators Some of the Corpses Are Amusing is still online - three pages of invective apparently intended to insult everyone associated with Edinburgh comedy.www.davegorman.com/dggwa.htmlhttp://web.ukonline.co.ukNew &amp; notedLike bootlegging never diedwww.bastardpop.co.ukCarbon compensationwww.futureforests.comThe sleekest linkhttp://notlong.com/linksSurreal teen slanghttp://thesurrealist.co.uk/slang.cgiSix of the bestTerminator 3Terminator FAQwww.faqs.org/faqs/movies/terminator-faqArnie prank machinewww.ebaumsworld.com/arnolds1.htmlTime travel technicalitieswww.mjyoung.net/timevs The English Patientwww.sweetbomb.com/cameron/love.htmBiblical subtextwww.unomaha.edu/~wwwjrf/cyborg.htmEarly draftwww.tnmc.org/dp/1104021.shtml
Real holy grailKieren McCarthy's article (New power generation, July 24) missed the point. True, mobile users want a universal power source available everywhere. But Ethernet is in the process of shedding its tethering cables, particularly for mobile users. Desktop users are sitting next to a standard mains power outlet anyway!The combining of power and data is very clever, if not new, but what the world really needs is a standard low-power connector along the lines of the 12V DC cigarette lighter in cars. This is the nearest thing to a standard for low-voltage, but quite high-power, connections.  To succeed, the new power connector must also have a connector that can't be confused with any other.The Cambridge companySplashpoweris selling a connectorless charging system using a cheap induction coil built into the device. This is probably a more likely candidate for future mobile, ubiquitous power.  Power over "wireless" Ethernet. Now, that's a "real" holy grail.Dave BancroftMilton KeynesLiving in darknessKieren McCarthy says: "Much fuss has been made about the home of the future... Did you leave the lights on? You can check online. If you did, you can turn them off."Wait a minute - what does power over Ethernet have to do with light switches? Nothing, unless I'm missing something. Or is McCarthy suggesting we all power our lighting   from our home networks? If so, as he mentions that the specification for 802.3af gives a maximum of 13W, we are all going to be living in semi-darkness.Adam WilliamsonManchesterNon-conformistsI enjoyed your article about online shopping (What is in store for us? July 24) and can, perhaps, offer another perspective from Switzerland.  I started shopping online as an electronic extension of mail-order: the advantages of instant information on product availability and delivery dates are undeniable. I have had no problems with deliveries, and the information provided - instantly - has proven accurate.I then proceeded to online grocery shopping. Apart from a couple of hiccups - couriers dropping a delivery of wine and occasional misdelivery of items - I am nowhere near the substitution rates you report. Perhaps UK online retailers might want to look at the Swiss experience?Although LeShop has gone through financial problems, the Swiss being notoriously slow to take up anything new, it seems to be finding its place.I have done most of my banking online since the 80s. I order books online for delivery at my local bookstore. Shaking off spam has become second nature. I read your paper most days - the cost of the delivery of the real thing being prohibitive.I am female, 48, and have been on the net properly since November - so I hardly fit the profile. I wonder how many other people out there have similar (non-conforming) backgrounds?Abi GassmannSwitzerlandFlawed perspectiveYour stat of the week from a study by the Pew Internet and American Life Project showing that females play more computer and online games than males is riddled with flaws (Game boys and girls, July 24).   Unfortunately, the operational definitions of the differences between a "videogame" and a "computer game" used by the researchers are not used by other researchers in the field.To be a "gamer" for the purposes of this study, those who were infrequent players (or had just played once) were counted as "gamers". Most studies on gaming show that when you ask the question "Have you ever played a video/computer game?," there are no significant differences between males and females. However, when you examine the frequency of playing, males play more often and for significantly longer.Professor Mark GriffithsNottingham Trent UniversityDiversity the keyJack Schofield's picture with pipe clenched between teeth on the Online page of the Guardian website sums up the position of this old frump. In his column (July 17) he makes a plea for universal access as the founding principle of the web. Well, times have changed. The web is now many things to many people.He attacks "trendies who think things should be cool rather than functional". Must we also only make training films or write instruction manuals? Websites that provide a vital public service should be easily accessible to all, but beyond that, shouldn't anything go?Diversity is the key and this includes sites that challenge the idea of universal access.Duncan HamiltonLiverpoolwww.whitediamond.orgA cross wordThe Guardian has shot itself in the foot. It widely advertises its superb crosswords for a personal digital assistant. But if you have a Palm PDA, you are only able to access this facility if you are a Windows user.Michael AylandCinderford, Gloucestershire
Business solutions continues its series in which we help readers with their IT queries. Investigating readers' problems this month are David Clark, managing director of eMedia; Kevin Riches, managing director of Total Asset Management; Simon Shepherd, an analyst with IDC; Paul Brennan, general counsel for the Federation Against Software Theft; and Colin Lee, business adviser for Business Link.I run a small prestige car hire company and would like to start using email to attract new business. I have a database of my existing customers that I mail regularly. I am considering purchasing a CD-rom list of email addresses and bulk mailing to it. Are they worth the money?DC:Buying a list of email addresses on the cheap can be tempting, but you are extremely unlikely to strike it lucky, and you risk your message being interpreted as spam. There are many specialist email marketers that have invested heavily in database development, research into email usage and trends. Asking several basic questions will give you a clearer indication of the quality of data. How was circulation built? How is it maintained and how often? Have all the recipients opted in? How were they opted in? What have they opted into?Email should never be viewed as the cheap option but, done properly and legitimately, it can be by far the most cost-efficient. Also, be prepared to deal with the level of response your email campaign can generate. A response within 24 hours should be the goal, even if it is an automated personalised acknowledgement of the inquiry.What do I do with my PC once it has come to the end of its useful life?KR:You have a number of options. You can sell it on - the resale value of used equipment is calculated using the assumption that three-year-old equipment has a residual value of at least 5% at the end of its commercial life. It can be tricky managing the sale yourself; if you sell it to staff members, you are responsible for checking it meets health and safety standards. Computer brokers are usually after the lowest price possible and may not remove all the data correctly, something you need to be aware of or risk prosecution via the Data Protection Act. An asset management company such as TAM works on commission, returning a minimum of 5% to its clients, after fees and sales commission.Sometimes breaking down the equipment is even more profitable than selling it as a whole. Laptops, for example can be broken down and their screens alone can reach up to £250 when used to repair other equipment. The obsolete components - plastics, metals and heavy metals - can be recycled and disposed of in an environmentally friendly way. Of course you can donate to charity either at home or abroad; something you think is worthless may be highly valuable to an African school, for example. Organisations such as Digital Links (www.digital-links.org) can deal with it for you.All these new regulations about retaining electronic records and having to produce complete audit histories for documents is quite concerning. How can I be sure my company is on the right side of the law?SS:The key to addressing these new regulations lies in developing a proactive archive strategy. Archive storage is often overlooked until a crisis is looming, at which stage many IT managers respond by adding more magnetic disk or purchasing another tape drive. This approach will not meet the requirement for a long-term, trustworthy archive and puts the company at risk of prosecution if vital data can not be produced when required. An archive strategy consisting of hardware, software and process accountability should be planned carefully to make sure the information being saved is within legal or corporate guidelines.Initial planning should identify what needs to be done to ensure records are authentic when stored and retrieved. It is no good storing information if you can't access it in 10 years when the organisation is called on to deliver important historical information. Equally, it is no use if the records can be retrieved but the integrity of these records cannot clearly be established.A key element in setting up a trustworthy archive is to select the correct storage medium for the task at hand. Since there are dramatically different site requirements, no one storage technology will fit all archive environments. Optical, tape and even magnetic disk storage have their place, but it is critical for companies to consider the demands of their business before listening to hardware vendors that may be trying to force-fit their technology into the archive space. The wrong choice could prove very costly.Following a recent merger, our company feels it would simplify proceedings if we outsourced the consolidation and subsequent management of our IT systems. Are there any pitfalls of which we should be wary?PB:Don't underestimate the interrelationship between software licensing and outsourcing. The Federation Against Software Theft (FAST) advises any organisation considering handing over the provision of its IT services to a third party to check its existing software licences first; they may, for example, not allow outsourcing. Having recently merged with another company, there could also be inherited software issues of which you are unaware, and it is clearly important to identify (and rectify) these so they don't cause problems later in the negotiation process.Likewise, we advise outsourcing providers to avoid the risk of criminal and civil proceedings by conducting due diligence before taking on a contract. It is essential that during this phase you work with your chosen supplier to ensure records of software licences are up to date and available.In any agreement such as this, the key point to remember is that purchasing a service level agreement does not absolve you from liability when it comes to software licensing.I use an Excel spreadsheet to keep my contacts in order, but I keep getting told a full-blown database would be better. What would the advantages be, and how much training would I need?CL:Contact databases and customer relationship management (CRM) systems enable users to get more from their valuable client contact information. Rather than just being a flat spreadsheet with names and addresses, a simple CRM system can enable a mail merge or mailshots, the recording of contact history and even linking to accounts packages and calendars.Typically the user interface of an off-the-shelf contact database will be much friendlier than that of a flat spreadsheet and will enable flexible searching of client records and reporting functions allowing analysis of data. There are a number of accessible, industry standard packages on the market and a range of training is available depending on the user's initial experience and capabilities.&#183;Do you have a technology problem you'd like solved by our panel of experts? Write to Business Solutions Surgery, Online, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, fax them to 020-7713 4145, or emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
No, as a matter of fact I don't want larger breasts. If I don't go on one of these miracle diets soon, they're going to be quite big enough of their own accord, thanks. That is probably more information than you actually needed, but someone out there seems to think my embonpoint is vital to more than my personal statistics. Otherwise why keep mailing me about it?Then there are these two blonde stunners in Sweden who are just waiting to "do it" for me (and if they offer the air fare as well, I might be tempted). And if I find that tricky, there are more sources of cheap Viagra opening up to me than a sane person might believe existed. Some people think these are just junk emails - spam, as they're known - and not a sincere attempt to make contact.Of course they are right, and sifting through all this rubbish is a drain on anybody's time. But then so is sifting through the legitimate material. For a smaller business, say a self-employed individual or someone without much in the way of PA support, it can distract attention from the core tasks. Which isn't to say it is easy for the PAs themselves when they are in place, often charged with sorting through an executive's mails.Helpfully, the technology that delivers the unwanted mails to you can also help block them out, and the email programs themselves can sort your mail as it comes in. Blocking unwanted mails can be done in a number of ways. Many email programs have a "rules wizard" of some sort; simply go into the tools menu and set up a rule that deletes messages from certain users (or which contain certain key words - "Viagra" might be one) automatically. The spammers get around this by slight misspellings of words or putting f.u.l.l. s.t.o.p.s. or s p a c e s between the letters in a word so it doesn't get recognised, but it's a start.Better are the purpose-built spam blockers, which look at mail on its way in and, like a virus checker, shift it out of the way if it is likely to cause offence or waste a lot of time. Spamcop (spamcop.com) is a useful option, as is Spamnet (cloudmark.com); simply install them and watch them remove the gubbins as it emerges into your box. Do check Mailwasher (mailwasher.net), which takes a different approach if you have a little more time; it intercepts your mail for you to inspect, and if you are on any time-wasters' lists, it will send a bounce-back message so the sender thinks there is no live email address on the end of it.If you use one of the automatic blockers, do check what it is blocking; only this week I had a note from an associate trying to send a press release who found she had fallen foul of the spam blockers even though she never sent unsolicited mail. As indeed did my own media training mail frommediatrainer.biz, which - as the owner, I can vouch - has never sent block mails.Which brings me to the niceties of not getting on junk mail lists in the first place. This is all but impossible, but you can reduce the risks, for example by not making your email ID too widely available. If you are using it to trade, you will have a judgment to make as you will want prospects to be able to reach you.However, if you have signed up to any emailing lists and their server gets hacked, be prepared for a deluge of mail; if you have used your email ID as part of your signature in an internet newsgroup or as an eBay (or any other popular site) trading name, brace yourself for it getting poached. And if you get a come-on from a crummy investment, sex or other irrelevant site that gives you the option to come off the list, don't follow the instructions - they will then know you are a live internet user and will almost certainly sell your address on.But what about organising your in-box so the mails you actually want are organised in some way? This is where rule wizards and the ability to create categories for emails are important. Say you wanted a separate mail folder for all your correspondence from a particular client. Right clicking on your root mail folder should allow you to set up a new one and name it in most email programs. Then it is a matter of setting the rules so that every note from a specific client is either transferred or copied straight to that folder. Pre-sorting mails in this way can be quite a help as long as you remember to check all your folders rather than just the main one, otherwise you can miss an email.Other refinements are available. Contact management systems such as ACT! and Goldmine will attach emails, letters and other documents to a specific contact so the relationship becomes more trackable. In some businesses this will be more relevant than others.And after all that you will still get some junk mail. Deleting it or reporting it to your spam blocker is more or less all you can do, and hope you've clawed at least some of your time back through whatever precautions you end up putting in place.Speaking of time, I must be going; just had another mail from those Swedish stunners - you never know, they might just be real.
