Playboy: The Mansion is released tomorrow, and unfortunately you can't claim you're buying it, 'for the articles'. While it�s received lukewarm reviews, the most interesting aspect of the game is that it was created by Brenda Brathwaite, design veteran of a raft of role playing games. Gamesblog decided to forgo theopportunityto interview a Playboy bunny and chose to chat to Brenda instead.How did you get involved with Playboy: The Mansion?I was looking to change jobs, and I saw a job post on the women in game development forum of the IGDA. So, I applied. Since it was for Cyberlore and I had just a strong RPG background, I just assumed I was being brought into to work on the Majesty series. Before the interview got started, Clarinda Merripen, the company's Director of Operations, walked me around the office. "This is the game that you'd be working on," she said. I looked at the screen and instantly recognized the figure there. It was Hugh Hefner. That was the beginning.What do you consider to be your major contribution to the game?I feel really good about the missions and goals in the game. Hef's life was pretty complex, and he did so much for modern society that many, many people aren't even aware of - things like the Playboy Foundation and the Playboy Jazz Festival, his work on civil rights and women's rights. I feel like I brought that out in the game.What kinds of things did you bring to the design table as a woman?It's the only perspective I've ever had, so it would be hard for me to tell. On Playboy, we were committed to making a good, tasteful game. I may push for equally sexy men, but I don't know that being a woman affected my development much. Estrogen has very little effect on the games I make, even if they're Playboy games. I may have had to do a bit more research than a man, though.How do you respond to feminist critiques of Playboy: The Mansion?Generally, I don't respond. It's a "we agree to disagree" type thing. There are different kinds of feminists, and not all feminists, me included, are against erotica or pornography.I find that Playboy is a celebration of women and goes out of its way to be respectful. To me, Playboy's photography of the nude female body is not offensive or demeaning. It is beautiful. That someone finds that beauty sexually appealing isn't bad either - it's natural! If it were a nude man, I'd feel the same way. I've talked to numerous Playmates, and they don't feel degraded. They did this of their own free will. My creativity is my gift; their beauty is theirs. How they use it is up to them. In fact, to suggest that it's degrading is, in fact, degrading to the women who made those choices intelligently.There's this wonderful quote from the Playboy Philosophy written by Hugh Hefner that really sums up my feelings: "If the human body - far and away the most remarkable, the most complicated, the most perfect and the most beautiful creation on this earth - can become objectionable, obscene or abhorrent when purposely posed and photographed to capture that remarkable perfection and beauty, then the world is a far more cockeyed place than we are willing to admit."I think it all comes down to this question: is sex and sexuality inherently a good and a natural thing or something to cover up and keep away from people? How sad a world it would be if it were the latter.How do you position yourself? As a feminist or an anti-feminist? How does this seep into your game design history?I am most certainly a feminist. How is it in my history? Well, I think it probably has a lot to do with where I am now. My gender has never been an issue or a limitation. I was fortunate enough to be surrounded by strong women growing up, and with them as my role models, I was never limited by the traditional roles women find themselves in. The sky's the limit, and I really believed that. You'll probably find strong women in all my past games, though I never did that on purpose.You're closely involved with the Women in Games Development SIG of the IGDA. How can the games industry strive to be gender-inclusive? Should it?Funny. You know, before I started working on this interview, I was trying to find a specific advertisement for a game that I remembered. So, I flipped through probably 20 gaming mags before taking a break to do this, and let me tell you, it was an eye-opening experience. When you're going through a mag specifically to look for a boob-filled advertisement, you see them everywhere. Now, I don't have a problem when the sex or sexiness is actually a component of the game itself - like Rumble Roses or Leisure Suit Larry - but there are advertisements all over magazines that use half naked women for no reason other than to draw male attention. That has to affect girls in a negative way. Looking through the magazine, there was a clear message to me, "You don't belong here. This is for boys." The editorial comments surrounding busty screenshots supported that. You might be raking in the male viewers, but c'mon.That little rant off my chest, I think we can be more gender-inclusive by networking. Many people get into game companies because their friends tell them about an opening. Now, if Cyberlore has an opening, let's say it's in QA, and everyone here tells ten of their friends, the candidate pool is likely to be overwhelmingly male simply because our company is overwhelmingly male. However, if we as women use every resource we have, and the IGDA list is just one of them, we can get opportunities in front of women. As more women enter the industry, our networking opportunities get even bigger. It's an important thing. It got me my job here, in fact.We're also seeing more and more "Women in Games" conferences, and I think the attention to those will certainly help.
When a 13-year-old girl in a Yorkshire village realised she was pregnant, she didn't have anyone to talk with face to face. But she was able to get private professional advice via video at a terminal within walking distance of her home. The terminals, called Citizen Link kiosks, allow people in remoter parts of East Riding, Yorkshire, to speak in person to experts at a range of organisations, including the council, law firms, NHS staff and the police.Citizen Link is one of the successes of a remarkable wave of investment over the past five years into electronic systems connecting people with their local authorities. It is particularly remarkable for cutting across boundaries between government and other public services.Unless you live in East Riding, it is unlikely that your council has anything as good. Research published this week shows a gulf between the best and the worst councils offering electronic public services. With central funding for e-government about to dry up, there are fears that the gulf could become permanent.Despite its historic name, East Riding is a relatively young authority, a so-called "unitary", taking on the functions of an English county and a district. It covers 1,000 square miles and contains 171 towns and villages.Citizen Link was created to meet the challenge of bringing a council "customer service officer" within 3km of every citizen. "We run 583 services and want to ensure that 90% of inquiries are answered at the first point of contact," says Brigette Giles, customer services network manager.The first Citizen Link terminal opened in 2002; there are now 19 in brick-built booths, plus others in hospitals and mobile libraries.Anyone can walk into a Citizen Link booth, activating a two-way video call to the council's virtual contact centre. A customer service officer opens the door remotely and deals with the inquiry or directs it to the right department or outside service.Inside the kiosk, the only IT visible is the screen, though there is a scanner in a drawer for collecting images of documents.Apart from the council, the service links Citizens Advice bureaux, firms of legal aid solicitors, Humberside police, Jobcentre Plus, local hospitals and the NHS patient advisory and liaison service. Joining up agencies makes sense, says Giles, because most people do not know the difference between a council and a health authority, for example.The Pensions Service, run by central government, is due to come on board in the next few weeks. "The Inland Revenue has also shown an interest," Giles says. "We're also liaising with the probation service and prison service."Giles is surprised by the volume of use: "We expected to be like the fire service, we're there if you need us." Kiosks are open around the clock, although they get very little use after 8pm.Citizen Link is not the only groundbreaking e-government service run by the council. Its My East Riding web portal has won awards for the way it personalises public services - residents can log in to find out how the council is responding to a specific   complaint about a broken streetlight. Darryl Stephenson, the council's leader, says the whole point of e-government is to improve service: "We don't look at new technology, we look at how we can serve the customer better."An authoritative annual survey of local authority websites published this week suggests councils investing in e-government tend to be good at other things. But there is a large gap between the best and the worst.Better Connected, conducted every year by SocITM, an association of public sector IT managers, tested each of the UK's 468 local authority websites and ranked them into four categories:Transactional websitesThese are "accessible, complete, thoughtful and coherent". They allow users to carry out many types of transactions, such as paying fees and booking facilities, and also join up with other government services. SocITM found 38 in this category, up from 23 last year.Content plusThese provide very useful content and offer some self-service features, such as links to library catalogues or planning applications. There are an encouraging 226 in this category.ContentThese provide "useful content and encourage some interaction", but no direct transactions. SocITM found 180 at this level.PromotionalOnly 23 local authorities are still at the level of merely publishing brochures on the web, perhaps with an A-Z list of services. Three years ago, one third of councils were at this stage.The progress of the past few years reflects a burst of funding from central government, both in the form   of flat-rate subsidies and grants for specific outstanding projects. Citizen Link, for example, was originally funded by grants from the Legal Services Commission, the regional development agency and the Lord Chancellor's Department.In just a year's time, specific funding for local e-government is due to come to an end. From then on, projects will have to pay their own   way. In the case of advanced high technology, this could be difficult, Stephenson says."There is no financial business case for video links," he says. But this does not mean they should not be provided: "If we have one girl come in and make a statement about child abuse that she otherwise would not have done, it is worth a video link being in that village."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
EDS looks set to win the largest single IT contract in the world, ever. It has emerged as preferred bidder for the Ministry of Defence's &#163;4bn defence information infrastructure.The point of such procurements - this one took three years to negotiate and cost the parties millions of pounds - is to ensure that government gets a good deal.But does it? One reason for scepticism is that the government's ambitions make a nonsense of competition. Only a handful of firms can take on these mega contracts, and most are already over committed.The losing bidders for the defence deal, CSC and BT, are up to their neck in billion-pound contracts for the NHS; EDS has spare capacity following the loss of   its Inland Revenue business. Was there really a choice?Some industry voices are saying that government should recognise reality, drop any pretence at open competition and negotiate with firms everyone knows will win.This should be resisted. Disturbing evidence is emerging that big IT contractors already have a harmful influence. It appears in a piece of international research led by two of the most respected scrutineers of government IT, professors Patrick Dunleavy and Helen Margetts. The research will be published in a book due out next year.The researchers studied IT performance and the industry in seven countries. They judged IT performance by the number of projects that fail, whether government pays competitive prices and   whether public sector IT is as modern as that in private industry.Industry power was calculated, from the extent to which government holds open competitions, whether the market is dominated by a few suppliers and whether the government keeps IT expertise in house. To get around the problem of comparing a relatively small number of cases with many variations, the team used a methodology called fuzzy set social science.For the British government, the findings do not make comforting reading. There was a strong correlation between success and small, short-term IT contracts placed by governments that keep expertise in house. In the Netherlands, for example, public bodies split contracts into very small packages of work, rarely exceeding &euro;1m. Canada showed a similar pattern.In the Netherlands, the top five IT suppliers have 20% of the government market, as against 80% in the UK. In the US, it is 48%. The UK was unique in that a single firm (EDS) has 51% of the market. Government-IT industry relations have become "dangerously unbalanced" in the UK, the study concludes.Meanwhile, the UK has the highest "scrap rate" of government IT projects among the seven. The lowest are the Netherlands and Japan.The Japanese get things wrong, but contractors there throw extraordinary resources into ailing projects, knowing that if they did fail they would get no more business. In Britain, by contrast, there is a "weary recognition" that a disaster does not rule a company out of future deals. We don't have to look very far for examples.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
The UK government has  funded the development  of software useful  for e-government, and  now doesn't know what  to do with it. Someone  had the bright idea to hand it over  to local councils, inviting them to  turn themselves into software  companies.The public have already paid to  develop this software. Isn't it  absurd to make them pay, now,  for permission to use it? Isn't it  absurd to restrict what they can  do with it? Alas, such absurdity is  not unusual; it is standard practice  for governments to deliver publicly  funded software into private  hands, to companies that make the  public - and even the government  - beg for permission to use it  afterwards.Even worse, they impose  frustrating restrictions on the  users, denying them access to the  software's source code, the plans  that a programmer can read and  understand and change. All the  users get is an executable, a "black  box", so that they cannot adapt  it, understand it or even verify  what it does.There is a sensible motive for  this senseless policy. The motive  is to make sure that someone  cares for the software, fixing the  problems that inevitably appear  and adapting it to new needs.  People used to believe that having  some company control all use of  the software, and keep all users  under its thumb, was the only  way to do this.Today, we know another way:  free software (also known as open  source or Foss). Free software  means the users are free to use  this software, redistribute it,  study it, or even extend it to do  more jobs.The word "free" refers to freedom,  not price; think "free speech",  not "free beer". When there are  users that value support and are  willing to pay for it, free software  means a free market for support,  instead of a monopoly. Free  software also offers government  agencies a way to fulfil their  responsibility to maintain  sovereign control over the  state's computers, and not let that  control fall into private hands.Since 1984, groups of volunteers  have developed and maintained  powerful and useful free programs  - a few at first, then entire operating  systems such as GNU+Linux  and BSD. Today, the Free Software  Directory (www.gnu.org/directory)  lists almost 4,000 free software  packages. The UK government  has already decided to increase  its use of free software; here is a  perfect opportunity to both use  it and contribute.The Office of the Deputy Prime  Minister should make the  e-government programs free  software, set up a site to host  their development, and hire a  handful of people to oversee the  work. Then governments around  the world will begin to use this  software, fix it, extend it, and  contribute the improvements  back.The whole world will benefit,  and all the users will admire  Britain's leadership.&#183;Richard Stallman launched the GNU  operating system (www.gnu.org) in  1984 and founded the Free Software  Foundation (fsf.org) in 1985.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
Slow 64 bitsThe computing industry is renowned for its rapid pace of change. So why, 13 months after unwrapping my new 64-bit PC, am I still confined to working at 32 bits? The AMD website still refers to the 64-bit Windows XP being available later in 2004!Crawford StewartJack Schofield replies:The Athlon 64 was sold on the basis that it could run today's 32-bit software and tomorrow's 64-bit programs, but in the computer business, "tomorrow" generally means "a couple of years". Since hardware keeps getting cheaper, it's rarely worth buying ahead of the curve, unless you have both a specific need and the software that meets it. Of course, from February 3, 2004, you could have been running the free 64-bit version of XP Pro available under Microsoft's Windows XP Professional x64 Edition Customer Preview Program (http://masl.to/?X25C25C39), or a 64-bit version of Linux. But usually the problem isn't so much getting the operating system to run, it's getting drivers for the hardware and applications that do anything useful. Those can take even longer to appear.Contacting RingoDo you know anything about an organisation called Ringo? It's supposed to set up a mutual contact address book. It could be a marvellous method of collecting addresses for spam and viruses.Tim GosslingJS:Ringo (www.ringo.com) is one of    several similar services that maintain and update lists of contacts. Plaxo (www.plaxo.com) is the market leader, and Bebo (www.bebo.com) is another rival. Ringo is not collecting addresses for spammers: it's part of Monster Worldwide (www.monsterworldwide.com). This runs the biggest online recruitment system, which includeswww.monster.co.uk. However, I suggest you read Roger Clarke's Very Black 'Little Black Books' (www.anu.edu.au/people/Roger.Clarke/DV/ContactPITs.html) before getting involved with any of these systems. I find the repeated requests for updates very annoying.More upgradingI have an oldish Dan Explora Plus PC, and I wonder if it is worth putting in a faster chip.John HuttonJS:The first thing to do is upgrade the memory to the maximum the motherboard will take. This is usually the most cost-effective way to increase the performance of Windows (or Linux or Mac OS X). After that, check the motherboard manual to find out what type of socket it uses, and the maximum speed chip it will support. Everest Home Edition, from Lavalys (http://masl.to/?P25B1449A) is very useful in finding out about a PC's internals.DRM problem?I've moved all of my music from my old laptop to my new computer and now it can't be played.Anthony BondJS:I'd guess that you ripped your CDs using Microsoft's Windows Media Player and that you have inadvertently used its built-in DRM (digital rights management) feature. If you try to play these songs while connected to the internet, WMP should go and get new licences for you. However, if you used WMP 7.0, you may have to do the update using Microsoft's Personal License Update Utility. You have to run this from your old PC    before transferring the files. If you can't do that, you'll have to re-rip your CDs again. I gave a fuller answer to this query on August 8, 2002 atwww.guardian.co.uk/Archive/Article/0,4273,4477138,00.html.However, it's always worth reminding WMP users to make sure to turn the DRM off. (Go to Copy Settings and uncheck the box marked Protect Content.) Better still, use Exact Audio Copywww.exactaudiocopy.de) to rip the files then convert them to your compressed music format of choice.Backchat&#183;Intuit decided to close its UK operation, leaving Quicken and TaxCalc users with a problem. The good news is that Assured Solution Providers Ltd has taken over TaxCalc and it now appears on the TaxChecker website which is under construction atwww.taxchecker.co.uk. According to an email that ASP sent reader Stephen Powell, the company is "currently working on a new program which will ensure that the best features of TaxChecker and TaxCalc are combined". ASP is on 08708 776655.&#183;Last week, John Clare had problems installing Norton Anti-Virus 2005 - it's not compatible with his processor - and said: "The retailer is not prepared to offer a refund for a package that has been opened." Nick Pearson recommends visiting the Citizens Advice Bureau. He says: "The retailer's position is unsustainable (see Sale of Goods Act 1979). Briefly, write to the retailer (recorded delivery) saying the product is not fit for purpose and state you want a full refund in, say, seven days. After that, go towww.courtservice.gov.uk/mcol/and file a claim. The amount claimed should include the product cost plus your expenses (eg &#163;30 court fee, &#163;5 donation to CAB, postage costs and so on). Sit back and await cheque. It's not as satisfying as taking a sledgehammer to the shop, but close."
Music playersiPod offeringsApple turned the screw further on competitors last week by revamping its iPod lineup and slashing prices. The second generation iPod Mini, which can be charged by USB and claims increased battery life, is now available as a 4GB model for &#163;139 or 6GB for &#163;169. The USB power adaptor does not come as part of the package, and will set buyers back a further &#163;19. The top-of-the-range, colour-screen iPod Photo has also seen drastic price cuts, with a 30GB model now costing &#163;249, bringing it much closer to the price of the classic white iPod. Shoppers wanting more welly can pick up a 60GB unit for &#163;309. Both moves mark Apple's attempt to extend its grip on the music player market and encourage new buyers to hook into the brand.www.apple.com/ukMobile phonesWalkman mobileSony Ericsson has taken the wraps off its Walkman-branded mobile phone. The W800, due to launch in the autumn, combines an MP3 and AAC-compatible digital music player with a two megapixel camera in an upright candy bar-style handset. The phone comes with 0.5GB of Memory Stick Duo Flash memory storage and "quality stereo headphones". Battery life for music playing is 15 hours if the phone is switched on, 30 hours if it isn't. Motorola is expected to unveil its iTunes-compatible mobile later this month. Sony Ericsson has also announced the K750, a two megapixel camera phone, and the K300, an entry level handset.www.sonyericsson.comAnna Sui SamsungIf changeable colour covers aren't enough to make your mobile phone a fashionable accessory, then this could give your sound   piece some style: the Anna Sui e315 mobile by Samsung. The limited-edition designer mobile, available in the US on T-Mobile for $299, comes in Sui's signature black and purple colour palette, with personalised screensavers, butterfly charm, custom-designed carry case and lipgloss. It features photo caller ID, AOL Instant Messenger and the usual Samsung e315 features. UK users can order it online Sim-free and then change the settings, or get the phone unlocked by T-Mobile here.www.samsungwireless.com/shopannasui/E-Ten smartphoneThe latest Microsoft Windows-powered smartphone from E-Ten has just gone on sale in the UK. The M500 is an upright handset with a 2.8in 240x320 pixel, 64K colour screen. It runs on Microsoft's Windows Mobile 2003 second edition operating system, which incorporates versions of Word, Outlook, Windows Media Player and Internet Explorer. It also sports a 400 MHz processor, 130MB of memory, a 1.3 megapixel camera with a flash and video shooting capabilities, and Bluetooth. It retails for about &#163;350 Sim-free from Smart Devices.www.smartdevicesdirect.comHardwareWireless headsetBlueShark Systems has debuted an innovative Bluetooth-enabled headset that does more than just allow users to make and receive calls wirelessly from their mobile phone. The &#163;200 Sonorix Bluetooth Audio headset comes with a USB dongle that lets users stream music wirelessly from their PCs. An additional dongle, which will enable users to stream music wirelessly from MP3 players such as iPods and some mobile phones, will be available shortly. The headset also sports an integrated MP3/WMA player with 128MB of memory. Battery life is rated at six hours for the music player or three hours when connected wirelessly to another device.www.carphonewarehouse.comStat of the week - Winning hitsAdvertisers often focus on the most popular search engines to try to generate revenue - but new research shows that bigger is not always better. AltaVista, the UK's 15th most popular engine, gets more click throughs per user than all except Google and Yahoo.Number of click throughs per searcherGoogle 17.9Yahoo 14.5AltaVista 13.6Tiscali 7.8My Way 6.0&#183;Source: FTC&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
Back to the futureAtari AnthologyPlayStation 2, &#163;19.99Various/Atari, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;No, your eyes do not deceive you - 85 games crammed on to one disc, a task made easier because most take up only a few megabytes each, but it is still a bargain. Here is a collection of videogame classics - lovingly recreated in their original form, many with their original cabinet designs framing the screen.With a few notable exceptions, this is a virtual history of videogames, from the arcade originals such as Asteroids and Missile Command, to the first console hits such as Super Breakout and Gravitar. The collection tapers off in the mid 80s, no doubt leaving room for a second volume.OK, so the trip down Silicon Street has more than a few culs-de-sac. Don't expect 3D, impressive sound or much in the way of long-term replay value. It's also sobering to see how badly some have dated. Remember when Battlezone was commissioned by the US military for training purposes? The wild imprecision of its dual-joystick controls perhaps explains the proliferation of "friendly fire" incidents. Control is left to the trusty PlayStation 2 pad, and this only occasionally detracts from the experience. The gameplay can also be repetitive, a reminder that the objective of these titles was to take your money, not feed your imagination.Nevertheless, almost any current release can be traced directly back to something here, and with so many titles to choose from, you really can't go wrong.Mike AnderieszStar Wars on steroidsStar Wars Republic CommandoXbox, &#163;39.99Activision, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;They may be only two words, but by June you are likely to have had enough of them. They are Star and Wars. The final film in the series is out in May and the videogaming hype has already started. Following on from the splendid Knights of the Old Republic, Republic Commando is a totally different gaming beast.Mixing the blasting of Halo with the tactical squad action of Rainbow Six, Republic Commando is Star Wars on steroids. Set between films one and two, the game puts you in charge of a four-man team of Clone Troopers. A simple control system makes it easy to command your soldiers, although the artificial intelligence doesn't always play ball. The journey takes in a variety of locales.But while tactics and strategy are important, the action is so visceral that reflexes rather than reflection often pull you through. The chaos of the combat is exhilarating. And, as you'd expect, the sound and graphics are first rate. The gritty look - a first for the brand - adds to the appeal, and online play is also an important element.But while the standard death match-style options are present and correct, the lack of a cooperative mode is galling. Nevertheless, Republic Commando makes great use of the licence and will appeal to fans twiddling their thumbs until May.Greg HowsonOdd coming of ageOddworld: Stranger's WrathXbox, &#163;39.99Oddworld/Electronic Arts, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The founders of Oddworld worked in the Hollywood film industry, a fact easily discernible in their games featuring the weird creatures Abe and Munch. Those games featured quirky   virtual worlds, but were let down by hackneyed action-platform gameplay.Stranger's Wrath, however, might mark the developer's coming of age, as it adds mildly innovative gameplay to the mix. You play the mysterious Stranger, a bounty hunter, in a well-observed Wild West-style world populated by the customary odd-looking creatures that act like humans.Armed with a crossbow, you spend the first half of the game bounty hunting. This mainly involves careful selection of ammunition: your crossbow is designed to fire the cute-looking but vicious small creatures that populate the game's universe.Each creature has a different effect. You can set traps by firing creatures that will attack the nearest enemy. As you can do this from a distance, it constitutes a new (and satisfying) form of stealth gameplay.More conventional first-person shooting then appears. The result is impressive. Stunningly good graphics, a smattering of humour and a high level of attention to detail generate a gameplay experience that is fresh, immersive and, at times, challenging. Defeating bosses, in particular, requires considerable tactical thought and careful husbandry of ammunition.Top 5 games - Xbox1.Mercenaries2.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic 23.Sonic Mega Collection Plus4.Dead or Alive Ultimate5.Halo 2&#183;Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, (C)2001 Elspa (UK) Ltd&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
The government's decision to award preferred bidder status on a &#163;4bn computer system contract to a consortium led by the US company EDS came under fire last night.Defence procurement minister Lord Bach said the defence information infrastructure contract was vital for the modernisation of Britain's forces and would sustain more than 2,000 jobs in Britain's information technology sector.But the shadow defence minister, Gerald Howarth,   warned that the involvement of EDS in the winning Atlas consortium - which also includes Fujitsu, General Dynamics and LogicaCMG - did not bode well.EDS has been involved in a number of IT contracts in the public sector, some of which have troubled histories. It lost out in an open tender on the renewal of an Inland Revenue contract despite being the incumbent; it was embroiled in the row at the Child Support Agency which saw the CSA's director quit, and a contract to develop an email and directory service for the NHS was cancelled.In 2003 EDS took a $559m (&#163;291m) write-down against a US navy deal.The MoD contract, which will be run as a public-private partnership and will be worth &#163;4bn over 10 years, will provide the UK defence arm with a single information infrastructure. It will serve 340,000 users at 70,000 desktops around the world.Atlas has been awarded preferred bidder status on the &#163;2.3bn first stage of the contract, which is expected to be   finalised within the next few weeks, and, subject to review, would be expected to pick up the second and third stages.Lord Bach said: "We have conducted a rigorous competition and are confident that provision of an effective, efficient and value for money service, vital to the modernisation of defence and one where payment matches performance, has begun today."However, Mr Howarth said: "EDS have been involved in major problems in the IT systems of other government departments at a cost to the   British taxpayer of millions of pounds."Though he had not had access to the bids and the Atlas offer might have provided a better technical solution to that from rival consortium Radii, "past experience of EDS and government IT contracts does not bode well for the MoD", he said.Senior officials acknowledged that the government's record in rolling out IT programmes had "not always been as sparkling as it should" but the MoD had looked "very hard at the diagnoses" of other   similar programmes in Britain and abroad. They noted that when programmes ran into problems it was often the IT system that was blamed when the fault lay elsewhere.Graham Lay, managing director of EDS Defence, said the MoD's choice "vindicates our decision to bring together a team that offers low-risk, cashable benefits and assured delivery".The consortium declined to comment on profit margins on the contract or how revenues would be split among the members.
The joke in the US telecoms market is that the few surviving phone companies are going to merge and change their name to Ma Bell. Following three big takeovers in the past two months, we may not be that far away.The current US telecoms market was created by the late Judge Harold Greene, who went after AT&amp;T's historic telephone monopoly with a tenacity rarely seen outside of movies such as Jaws. The world's biggest private company simply caved in, and in 1984, AT&amp;T and the US Justice Department agreed to split off seven standalone RBOCs (Regional Bell Operating Companies) known as "Baby Bells".AT&amp;T was allowed to hang on to Bell Labs (later spun off as Lucent) and its long-distance phone business. Later it bought a computer company, NCR, for $7.3bn, a mobile phone business, McCaw Cellular, for $11.5bn, and a cable company, TCI, for $48bn, but it never regained its former glory.The AT&amp;T that traced its roots to Alexander Graham Bell was finally swallowed up by SBC for just $16bn on January 31.SBC started as the Southwestern Bell Corporation, one of Greene's RBOCs. Before buying its parent, it also gobbled up two siblings: Pacific Telesis (Pacific Bell and Nevada Bell) and Ameritech, with the latter costing $62bn. With Bell South, it also owns Cingular, a mobile phone network, which is absorbing AT&amp;T Wireless.SBC's main rival is now Verizon (sounds like horizon), which also started as an RBOC: Bell Atlantic. It took over another Baby Bell, Nynex,   for $25.6bn, then GTE (General Telephone and Electronics), the biggest independent, for $53bn. It also has a huge mobile phone business, Verizon Wireless, and last month, it bought MCI, the long distance operator, for $6.75bn.Qwest - which is still trying to buy MCI - remains the weakest player, and an obvious takeover candidate. Qwest came out of the Southern Pacific railway, which formed Southern Pacific Telecommunications to lay fibre-optic cables along its tracks. It then got into the local phone business by buying an RBOC, US West, for $43.5bn.Judge Greene might be surprised to find that only one of the companies he created - Bell South - survives in anything like its original form. Whether his massive restructuring of the industry benefited consumers is another matter: we'll   never know for sure. He certainly livened things up. But the telecoms market is much more competitive today because of the development of cellular phones, cable TV networks and the internet, not because US local and long distance calls were connected by different companies.What we do know is that phone company executives, and the whole US financial services industry, have enjoyed an almost unimaginable bonanza. What AT&amp;T took more than a century to build, SBC and Verizon have replicated in less than 20, mainly as a result of multibillion takeovers. This has been particularly true since the US government changed the rules again with the Telecommunications Act of 1996.Judge Greene wanted competition. The result has been mountains of money spent on consolidation.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
February and March are busy months in the consumer electronics world as the key manufacturers host shows in which they parade upcoming products before dealers and journalists. Most items will be released later in the year, with some not making it to stores until just before the autumn selling period.After having sampled a few of the manufacturers' shows, here are my predictions as to what are likely to be the year's significant trends.1: Bye bye to DVD playersNo, your eyes aren't misleading you: almost all the major players are cutting down on the number of standalone DVD players they sell. Instead, most makers are offering a large selection of DVD recorders, and, with prices starting at around &#163;200, makers hope that 2005 will finally be the year consumers upgrade to digital video recording.2: VHS VCR clings onIn spite of Dixons' announcement that it will stop selling VHS VCRs this year, almost all the main makers have at least one video cassette recorder. Some have high hopes for combi models, which pair a VCR with either a DVD or a hard disk-based recorder, enabling users to make digital recordings yet still enjoy the footage on VHS cassettes.3: Getting ready for HD TVWith Sky promising high definition TV broadcasts via satellite next year, consumer electronics manufacturers have finally got together and agreed a standard for LCD and plasma screens that will ensure they can play back HDTV transmissions. Almost all new flat screens boast the requisite connectors and adhere to the standard Sky requires.4: Wireless audio goes mainstreamUntil recently, systems that wirelessly piped music around a home were the preserve of either PC geeks or owners of hi-tech smart homes. Not any more, though, for companies are offering easy-to-use, simple-to-install systems that enable users to stream music from either a computer or a dedicated music station to hi-fis around the home. The price of basic systems could be as low as &#163;300.5: Personal video playersIt seems most makers have given up producing music players to challenge the iPod, possibly feeling that Apple is untouchable in this market. They are, however, eyeing up the personal video player market, with companies promising to launch hard disk video players sporting 3in or 4in screens.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
Free AnswersGuruNet was pretty good at answering factual (who is/what is) questions, but you had to pay for it. Now you can go to Answers.com, which is powered by GuruNet, and get them free. The advantage over searching Google is that you don't have to pick the right answer from millions of links that include masses of rubbish. Answers.com just searches "150 authoritative, credible reference works: premium dictionaries, encyclopedias, atlases, almanacs, glossaries, etc," including The Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia and Wikipedia. Windows users can also download the 1-Click Answers software that gets an answer for any word on the screen. You may already have used Answers.com, because if you click on a blue underlined word in Google's Results line (next to the search time), it now sends you to Answers.com.www.answers.comwww.gurunet.comToolbar 3Google is beta testing the third version of its popular popup-blocking toolbar. The new features include a spelling checker that works on web forms, a word translator, and an auto-linking feature for US users. WordTranslator will translate single words from English into Chinese, Japanese, Korean, French, Italian, German and Spanish. It won't translate the other way into English. Toolbar 3 requires Microsoft Windows 98 or later, and Internet Explorer 5.5 or later.http://toolbar.google.com/T3/indexThe GatesSorry you missed it? Christo and Jeanne-Claude's amazing project, The Gates, an art installation in New York's Central Park, is well documented on their site, and on the website of their exclusive photographer, Wolfgang Volz. You can also buy official prints, signed or unsigned, from Global Gallery. Finally, there are huge numbers of personal photos publicly   available on the picture-sharing websites, Fotolog and Flickr.www.christojeanneclaude.net/tg.htmlwww.wolfgangvolz.comhttp://masl.to/?N2BF3549Awww.fotolog.net/the_gateshttp://masl.to/?R2CF4449AName VoyagerA message that says "Loading Java" is usually enough to get me hitting the back button, but Name Voyager is an exception. It is fantastic. It shows the incidence of popular male and female names in the USA over the past century, in thin pink and blue lines. As you slowly type in a name, it eliminates all the ones that don't start with the same letters, until you end up with a graph that shows the popularity of the name rising and (usually) falling dramatically. It could be a big help naming a baby, and it's a fascinating social history.http://babynamewizard.com/namevoyager/Trivia quizIf you have a bit of time to waste, Nancy Dell'Olio is hosting an online trivia quiz in aid of the British Red Cross. Quiz Queen pits you against up to four other layers, so you also have to be quick to pick the right answer from the four offered for each question. It costs 35p a game, but you get &#163;5 "practice money" when you sign on, and you can increase that by winning a few games. If you don't fancy Nancy, the site has more than 20 other games, and Chain Reaction is worth a look if you like Bubblets. You have to provide an email address to register.www.midasplayer.com/?language=enDesign a TSpreadshirt.net lets you design and sell things like T-shirts from a free online store, set your own commission ... and you don't have to buy your own products. If this sounds like a familiar idea, perhaps that's because Caf&#233; Press has been doing it since 1999, and has been used to create more than 6m designs. Spreadshirt started in Germany in 2002, and opened a UK site last month. However, Caf&#233; Press lets you create books and CDs, as well as shirts, bags and mugs. Also, it has a great searchable Yahoo-style directory so you can browse the weird and/or wonderful designs netizens have dreamed up.www.spreadshirt.co.ukwww.cafepress.comGuide blogsI have previously mentioned Quacktrack, a Yahoo-style directory of web logs. Now there's another at Bloggernity. Both are somewhat primitive, and Bloggernity's lack of structure is a bad sign, but it does let visitors review and rate the sites listed.www.bloggernity.comhttp://quacktrack.comSix of the best for Mother's DayE-cardswww.mothersday-greetings.comGiftshttp://masl.to/?L1DE2149AKids' stuffwww.activityvillage.co.uk/mother's_day.htmMothering Sundayhttp://masl.to/?R5FE2549ASimnel cakewww.chippingnorton.net/Features/simnel%20cake.htmYahoo linkshttp://masl.to/?K6CE1549A&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
Mobile data is a story of broken dreams. Again and again, operators have said that high-speed data was on its way to mobile phones, and it would change our lives. Again and again, the reality has not lived up to the promises. Until now. In the next year or two, networks will be upgraded to offer broadband speeds on mobile phones through High Speed Download Packet Access (HSDPA). The only question then will be what on earth to do with it.Mobile broadband was first promised in the late 1990s. Operators saw ADSL taking broadband into homes via standard phone lines, and wanted to get in on the action. Third generation (3G) services, they said, would provide "broadband to the phone" - continuous data at speeds up to 2Mbps. This would be a huge jump beyond the 9.6kbps we had through GSM standards at the time.On a froth of hype, operators paid more than &#163;22bn for 3G licences. It then took them four years to build the networks, and the actual speeds they offered were somewhat less exciting. The services Vodafone, T-Mobile, Orange and O2 launched last year turned out to have a top download speed of 384kbps - and usually delivered 150kbps. Uploads, including sending emails and attachments, only go at about 64kbps.What happened to 2Mbps? It's a theoretical top speed, which you only get indoors when the handset is completely stationary and close to the base station.The same gap between theory and practice afflicts many radio data technologies. For instance, wireless networking products for your home, which meet the current Wi-Fi standards, will proudly proclaim a theoretical speed of 54Mbps, but actually deliver around 20Mbps.That doesn't make a lot of difference for most of what we do on the home network, but the "theory gap" has hit 3G networks hard, making them fall far short of the mobile broadband promise.To knock more lustre off 3G, the existing 2G networks didn't stand still: during the long wait, the networks moved to 2.5G. The GPRS packet radio standard, a simple upgrade to 2G networks that transmits data more efficiently, offers data rates of about 50kbps - roughly the speed of modems that lots of people still use for dial-up access from their PCs.But now 3G is about to pull ahead with a similar upgrade. HSDPA uses the same radio spectrum, but sends data more effectively. Defined in 1999, it is now included in the basic   3G definition, though naturally it will be known as 3.5G.HSDPA has its own theory gap: we won't see the top speed of 14.4Mbps, but the real speeds of 400kbps to 800kbps are comfortably within the range delivered on phone lines by ADSL. At last, we will have true mobile broadband and upload speeds will probably increase from 50kbps to 100kbps.It won't happen overnight, but the equipment vendors are already busy. At the 3GSM show in Cannes last month, both Siemens and Motorola showed HSDPA PC cards capable of 3.6Mbps. Ericsson had a demonstration running at 9Mbps, while Lucent showed it could transfer DVD-quality video nearly 10 times as fast as 3G.But handsets are what operators want, and they will appear in 2006. However, the early models will consume more power, and run hotter than other phones.Among the operators, O2 is the surprise front runner in Europe. O2, the last major player to launch 3G services in the UK, is running an HSDPA trial on the Isle of Man, where it has tested 3G services for several years."No one else is doing HSDPA in Europe," said Mike Short, O2's vice president for research and development. O2 claims it deliberately delayed its entry into 3G until HSDPA would make it worthwhile for users. However, it won't be delivering it on the mainland until next year.Worldwide, NTT DoCoMo has the most advanced plans, and expects to deliver HSDPA in Japan this year. Other operators are testing it, including Vodafone in Japan and New Zealand. Both T-Mobile and Orange showed HSDPA technology at 3GSM, and T-Mobile is reported to be changing its technology to HSDPA in the US, where it won't be offering 3G for another couple of years.So how does it work? Most improvements from HSDPA come from putting more intelligence in the base station - the equipment at the 3G mast. This will adapt its communications on the fly, making the best use of the   radio link it has with each individual handset, and increasing the speeds everyone gets.The technology changes include:Adaptive rate modulationThis allows the base station to tailor the data rate according to how good each radio link is. In practice, a handset close to the base station will have a better radio signal, so it will get a faster data rate and use a smaller share of the available transmission time. This leaves more time to send data packets to more distant handsets, which have a lower quality radio link and a lower possible data rate.Fast scheduling3G networks schedule data packets centrally, while HSDPA delegates this to the base station, which can respond quicker to changing conditions. This means data goes through faster.Fast retransmissionWhen there is an error between the handset and the base station, they sort it out between themselves, and the base station sends the single packet again immediately.New high-speed data channelAs well as the existing data channels allowed in 3G, HSDPA sets up a new one, which can be split between 15 users. Heavy data users can transmit this way without blocking others.So what will we do with it? Early multimedia applications on phones have not been wildly popular, partly because speeds have not lived up to expectations, but also because the phones and applications have not been very exciting. Even with the fastest network, there is a limit to the information you can absorb from a small device with a tiny screen.Clever designers will eventually come up with usable software, but for now, operators talk of music downloads and video telephony - things most people won't take to right away."Speed alone does not sell," said Short. O2 will be placing its trust in multimedia content, investing in IP multimedia subsystems (IMS), which will place live chat and "presence" on phones.Of course, if we do start using this and all share videos, HSDPA's uploads will seem slow. But the industry will have an answer. High Speed Uplink Packet Access (HSUPA) will boost them to the same speed as downloads. Expect it a year or so later than HSDPA. 3.75G, anyone?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
Porn plungesPornographic spam fell by 92.5% last month, but spam for dating services (+171%) and financial services (+107%) grew dramatically, according to the latest UK statistics from Email Systems. For the first time, more than 90% of email messages were spam, and on Sunday February 6, spam peaked at 97.6% of all email traffic. Viruses only made up 0.61%. With porn becoming unpopular, medical and pharmaceutical-related messages made up almost half of spam emails. Neil Hammerton, Email Systems' chief executive, noted that spam had shifted towards cheap products, financial scams "and other consumer-focused opportunities in an attempt to encourage mainstream recipients to part with their cash". Current levels for spam and viruses are shown on the company's website.www.EmailSystems.comNokia goes RFIDNokia has finally launched a kit that turns one of its phones into a mobile RFID reader, to target the growing market for the use of RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) chips. The Mobile RFID Kit, first announced last March, is part of the Nokia Field Force Solution for companies with field workers doing tasks such as repair and maintenance, asset management, and meter reading. It includes two Xpress-on RFID reader shells for Nokia 5140 phones, which have to be bought separately.Unified MandarinThree main controlled vocabularies used by public sector IT systems are being merged into the Integrated Public Sector Vocabulary (IPSV). A single vocabulary will make it easier to create XML schema and to index resources. It will also simplify information access for citizens, customers, suppliers and internal staff in line with government directives. No date has been set for compliance with IPSV but, from this summer, the e-Government Metadata Standard (e-GMS) will become the mandatory metadata scheme in place of GCL. Public sector bodies that are currently standardising on existing vocabularies are being encouraged to continue their projects and then map to IPSV at a later date.http://masl.to/?F2531359ASun blockerThe Eclipse open source development tools initiative for the Java environment is casting a bigger shadow on Sun Microsystems. At the second EclipseCon event in California this week, IBM is taking a back seat to pro mote new members BEA Systems and Sybase. Borland, a co-founder of Eclipse, is also stepping up its involvement. As the name suggests, Eclipse targets Sun's proprietary grip on Java and aims to weaken this by taking control of tools used in the development process. For example, BEA plans to offer an Eclipse-friendly version of WebLogic Workshop and the JRockit Java virtual machine.www.eclipsecon.orgLight dawnsSun Microsystems and Intel are competing to bring light-based data transfer into the heart of the computer. Just as fibre-optic cable uses laser light, so a miniature version could enable chips to communicate at light speed. At Intel's Developer Forum in California this week, the company confirmed its development of an all-silicon laser that may replace circuit board connections. Outside the conference, Sun was touting its own Proximity Communication, which takes a more proprietary approach, relying on neighbouring chips to have corresponding light sensitive and emitting areas separated by small air gap. Sun claims that computers based on this technology could appear within four years.http://masl.to/?E6732459Ahttp://tinyurl.com/5o4rtPressure groupAn organisation formed from 10 UK IT user groups will be launched next month. The Strategic Supplier Relationship Group aims to improve the relationship between IT users and suppliers. The group has taken four years to get together, and the initial focus will be on licensing policies and guaranteeing product quality. The founder members are the Corporate IT Forum, IBM Computer Users Association, UK Oracle User Group, British Computer Society Elite Group, Institute for the Management of Information Systems, Society for IT Management, Charities Consortium IT Directors Group, Charity IT Resources Alliance, Chartered Institute of Arbitrators and Computer Weekly 500 Club.Quick consoleGFI claims its upgraded Network Server Monitor console can be set up in less than half an hour with no training. The company says the user interface in version 6 has been redesigned using the Microsoft.net framework to make product configuration much easier. Network Server Monitor also supports Linux servers and targets companies that might consider Microsoft Operations Manager too complex or too proprietary. After configuration, the GFI monitor tests the status of services by performing and verifying tasks, such as a test login, rather than by making deductions from events. Checks are organised in folders and can inherit folder properties such as notifications, maintenance times and dependencieswww.gfi.com/nsm/
What's the appeal?When blogging became popular, I didn't see the appeal - but could appreciate why others might. I assumed the novelty would wear off for journalists, but apparently not - blogging still gets ridiculous amounts of coverage, especially in the Guardian. Last week, Online had a huge feature on the back page. Then  just inside, Blogback. A mention or two of blogs in Webwatch, then another article about food blogs. Even Cyber with Rosie was about blogging! If this interest ever wanes, it will certainly be to the tune of hundreds of "The Death of Blogging" articles. Can't wait.Jerome TurnerThe missing linkSurely most blogs are like my website, unread by most people unless randomly hit. That is unless they are deliberately seeking other readers of a special interest group - but isn't that an extension of chat rooms? What am I missing about blogs?Peter PickeringOne for the BritsIt would be nice to highlight British food bloggers (Foodies aim for a slice of the pie, February 24). There are some great ones, mainly expatriates living in the UK. I am an expat, too: an English foodblogger living in San Francisco. You can find links to some of the UK-based foodbloggers on my website (http://becksposhnosh.blogspot.com).Sam BreachSan FranciscoClever clogsYour World of Warcraft review (Games watch, February 24) neglected to mention that the clever people at Blizzard have put out a version that works on Macs as well as PCs, making it much more easily available than any other Mac game.Antony J. ShepherdCroydonMetasearch itMetasearch engines sometimes offer better results than Google or other search engines (Best of the rest, February 24). Using Dogpile as an example for metasearch engines makes me laugh. It may be used a lot, but its results are third rate. My top five are: Fazzle (www.fazzle.com), the best in my test; Metaeureka (www.metaeureka.com); QKsearch (www.qksearch.com); Ez2find (www.ez2find.com); Curryguide (web.curryguide.com). All produced better results than Google (and I didn't manipulate the search).Paul DewitteRoeselare, BelgiumSensible systemsMany search systems are largely based upon statistical algorithms and keywords. These are great for delivering significant quantities of results but all too often include many that are inappropriate, bizarre and insensitive, which can compromise brand identity. To be truly successful, search needs to take into account the semantic context of web pages. Only by analysing the linguistic content can searches become more accurate and deliver relevant results. A consumer's ability to locate the products they want is key to successful online sales. It is time to put "sense" back into searching, otherwise potential sales will be lost.Ian SaundersHolyheadRecharge plugJohn Hawkins (Feedback, February 24) writes: "No one has pointed out that Apple keyboards have a spare USB port which the iPod Shuffle should plug into." It will, but it won't recharge from the keyboard port.Miche DohertyCheap and cheerfulWhile it is true that if you have the latest version of Mac OS X you will be able to load your iPod Shuffle with music, the battery won't charge as the port is unpowered. You'll have a Shuffle full of music that won't play because the battery is flat. A cheap USB extension cable is the best solution.Steve DennisonEl Palmar, Spain
He won't be called Sir Bill, he said, laughing but looking down at the table with a touch of embarrassed modesty. The richest man in the world hopes not to share the fate of Howard Stringer, chairman and chief executive of the Sony corporation. "He gets a hard time, it's sir, sir, sir all the time," said Bill Gates.Technically that would be wrong anyway. The Queen gave Mr Gates, a US citizen, an honorary knighthood yesterday which conveys no title. It was awarded firstly because of his efforts and generosity in the cause of improving the health of millions in poor countries, and secondly in recognition of Microsoft's "contribution to enterprise, employment, education and the voluntary sector in the UK"."It's a great honour," said Mr Gates, who is expansive in the cause of global health but not on the subject of himself. Asked before the ceremony what he thought of the pomp and circumstance attached to being knighted in a palace, he said: "It will be fun."In an official statement he credited all those working in the poorest of places combating disease, assisted by the funds of the Gates Foundation. "I'm particularly pleased that this honour helps recognise the real heroes that our foundation supports to improve health in poor countries."Their incredible work is helping ensure that one day all people - no matter where they are born - will have the same opportunity for a healthy life, and I'm grateful to share this honour with them."He also made reference also to a special transatlantic relationship. "This honour is particularly poignant given the deep connections Microsoft enjoys with the UK," he said. The company employs 2,000 people in the UK, the first country to get a Microsoft subsidiary office, set up 23 years ago.Mr Gates also spoke about "the tremendous wealth of talent and creativity of our UK   employees and researchers". He added: "The companies and organisations that we have supported and partnered with since, and their employees, have been an important part of the positive impact &#91;that&#93; technology has had on economic growth and on the lives of people in the UK."He would not be cutting his hours at Microsoft any time soon to spend more time on his philanthropic work, he said, at an earlier discussion on global health: "I'm full-time at Microsoft and Microsoft isn't big on part-time jobs."But he and Melinda, his wife, are passionate about the work of their foundation, such as its efforts in getting basic immunisation to children, finding cures for diseases such as leishmaniasis and drugs for malaria, and researching vaccines for tuberculosis and Aids.An Aids vaccine was the foundation's No 1 priority, said Mrs Gates. But, stepping quickly around the potential political minefield, the couple said it was unlikely there would be a vaccine within 10 years, as Gordon Brown had implied recently in his call for more funding. If that occurred, said Mr Gates, he would "eat his hat".
Roku's Soundbridge has already made a name for itself in the US with its stylish take on a simple concept: streaming music directly from your computer to your hi-fi. You can do this either via Ethernet cable or, more usefully, using your home's wireless network. The unit is a smart-looking silver cylinder with an easy-to-read green display. It supports MP3 and WAV files as well as Apple's AAC format, but not tracks bought from the iTunes Music Store, though it can cope with most Windows Media protection. Two models are available, for around &#163;180 or &#163;350, but the only real difference is that the more expensive one is bigger. Both plug into your hi-fi system or speakers and installation is easy: the system searches for available Wi-Fi networks and then lets you access your music library using the remote. PC and Mac-compatible, it works best with optical input and an always-on computer, but apart from the seemingly high price for the larger model, there is much to recommend this for audiophiles.www.soundbridge.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
It's not exactly secret, but it might as well be - a former nuclear shelter has become an operations centre for Symantec, the world's largest internet security vendor. If there is a war in cyberspace, then this is the frontline.The location - an underground bunker in a field close to the village of Twyford, Hampshire - is up a single-track lane, on land once owned by Southern Water, which still operates a reservoir nearby. The bunker, designed to house 30 people for 60 days, is a relic of cold war politics. Construction began in 1988 and was completed in 2000, but with the fall of the Soviet empire it was deemed surplus to requirements, and was decommissioned only a year later.The cold war is over, but visitors to the bunker can see that the war against the activities of malicious hackers and organised crime on the internet is still in full swing.Symantec thinks a bunker that can survive most forms of bomb attack is an ideal location from which to run its European Security Operations Centre (SOC). This plays a vital part in the company's global monitoring services, as well as supporting its European managed services customers.You enter the bunker through a grass-covered entrance and are then ushered through an isolation chamber, which used to house showers for decontamination. The mechanics of isolationist survival are all around - air vents for filtering air, a chute for ejecting people from the building in an emergency and independent power and water supplies.The heart of the bunker is an underground room holding about six security analysts - part of a team of 25 staff. They sit in rows rather like a smaller version of the rows of NASA scientists seen during televised space missions. Each analyst works a 12-hour shift, starting at 7am or 7pm. They sit at two screens used for research, monitoring and internal and external communications. The screens give an overview of current vulnerabilities, and also a newsfeed that provides relevant topical or political stories.The only sign of the world outside is a widescreen TV at the front of the room, which shows a CCTV image of the car park on top of the bunker.The analysts - mostly IT security specialists, former academics and military personnel - measure their success in terms of "kills": the number of times they spot a new form of   malicious code and protect customers before any damage is done."On a typical day, we are monitoring what's happening on the internet, watching 'bot' networks, looking at hacker newsgroups, instant messaging to colleagues to share information, looking at government websites, and looking at activity on customer networks. Every analyst has their own favourite sources," says Symantec's Mark Onley, operations supervisor security analysis.Symantec sees 'botnets' as a growing threat. They are created by bots (short for robot software) covertly installed on target systems, often home PCs running Microsoft Windows. An unauthorised user then remotely controls these devices for a variety of malicious purposes, such as spamming and mounting denial of service attacks on e-commerce sites.The analysts also monitor events on customer networks, using automated logs sent from customer equipment, such as firewalls and intrusion detection systems. The analysts then recommend the best course of action (in the case of monitored customers) or take action on the customer's behalf (for managed customers).They have their work cut out looking out for all manner of viruses, worms, Trojan horses, blended threats, and various forms of malicious email. They also watch for misuse of a customer's resources, such as downloading porn or illegal database access.In a typical week, about 48 new vulnerabilities are tracked, and analysts' actions will be impacted by what is known as the ThreatCon rating. This varies from a normal day (rating one) to internet meltdown (rating four)."The good news is the virus attacks are on the decline, but the bad news is we are seeing a growing amount of malicious attacks that seek to extract funds from victims or companies," says Jeff Ogden, Symantec's head of managed security services. "The so-called phishing emails and e-commerce website attacks are classic examples."One of the most serious concerns is that the botnets are getting increasingly sophisticated and dispersed, so locating the main source is extremely difficult. Malicious pop-ups posing as advertising and viruses being sent to mobile devices are also of increasing concern, says Ogden.With more than 20,000 sensors in 80 countries monitoring internet activity, there is no shortage of data to analyse, and it looks unlikely that this former nuclear bunker will be decommissioned for some time.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.Press releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
Regarding Bobbie Johnson's article (Posting for profit, February 24), Darren Rowse (www.problogger.net), has written on making money from weblogs. His latest instalments are "More on making a living off AdSense" and "Earning a six figure income from blogging?". It turns out there are many people who object to people making a profit off their blogs. It seems these people believe that the open spirit of the web is tarnished by people who profit from their blogs.http://wiredgecko.typepad.com/neuvo/A new set of film licences for games suggests that stagnation might be ending ... or worsening. Gamesblog (February 25) wryly asks, "Is this going to be another case where a well-known licence is used to front a bare-faced GTA wannabe?" Given our observations about the limited character agency in GTA, the prospects for meaningful interactions in these film licence games seem dubious at best. All of which makes us wonder: what kind of new gameplay might be possible in such games? Do they have to be forgettable console shooters?www.watercoolergames.org
South Koreans, long the leaders in online communications, are foregoing email as they look for new ways of instant communication. Daum Communications, the leading email provider in South Korea, has announced that page impressions for its email service are down for the first time. The company's email service page views fell more than 20% from 3.9bn in October 2003 to 3bn a year later. Actual emails sent dropped by 16% in the same period. This is in sharp contrast to SK Telecom, Korea's leading mobile phone company, which revealed that monthly SMS transmissions jumped more than 40% in October last year, from 2.7bn texts sent 12 months previously.A recent poll of 2,000 teenagers also revealed that more than 75% of respondents use email "rarely or   never". The poll, carried out by a Chungbuk University computer professor, reported that the biggest reason for the drop in email usage in the young was that it was seen to be "old fashioned" and "slow". Many complained they had no way of knowing if the mail they sent had been read.Cha Juyoung, a student at Yonsei University in Seoul, said she only used email to send essays or reports for her course. "Otherwise, I can contact my friends on my cell phone, send them texts or use instant messenging," she said. Another reason for the decline is the improvement in other forms of technology. Mobile phones and MP3 players are becoming the communication tool of choice in South Korea. The internet is viewed as a place to have fun and express your individuality, but not a place to communicate.Step into any of the thousands of   internet cafes, or 'PC bangs', in Seoul and you will find no one using email. Most males will be playing computer games, while females will be updating their home pages.Home pages have been the fastest growing online industry in Korea over the past few years. Cyworld is the undisputed king of the industry, hosting more than 10m home pages. The company's page views soared from 650m in October 2003 to 17bn in October last year. The trend has even spawned a new term - a "cyholic" - meaning someone who spends hours updating their home page every day.Cyworld spokeswoman Michelle Park is confident that the number of users will continue to rise. "Having your own home page shows individuality and you can express yourself more," she said."There is no way to express yourself through email and that's why   young people are not using it so much."Kyung Lee, a high-school student from Incheon, west of Seoul, agrees: "I can spend a lot of time on my home page. I put up my photos, music and diary. My friends and I leave messages on the boards of our pages, it's more fun than just emailing."SK Communications' president, Yoo Hyun-oh, believes this trend will grow. "Email's efficiency falls in terms of promptness, convenience and credibility," he said. "With the continuous emergence of new communication means, communication formats will develop further."And there are indications that email usage in the west is dropping too, because of spam and spyware. According to US research company Osterman, 44% of internet users in the US are using email and the internet less than they did a year ago.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email addreess published, please say so.
Perhaps not up there with Marcus Bent scoring in the last minute to give Everton atotally undeserved drawagainst the Saints, but it wasn't far off. I'm talking about the BAFTA Gamecube award going to Prince of Persia: Warrior Within. Not only was this multi-format game not deemed good enough to receive an nomination for either Xbox or PS2, but it's actually not very good - and not a patch on its predecessor,Sands of Time. Judging byyour commentsit seems a lot of you agree with me. But what should have won the Gamecube award instead? Metroid Prime 2? Let me know and I'll pass your thoughts on to the BAFTA PR company.
Here's a prediction: an old woman will today hit Microsoft supremo Bill Gates with a deadly weapon. After all, what other reason does The World's Richest Man have for coming to London town today if not toget tapped up by the Queen?Gates, the world's wealthiest man, will receive the award from the queen at Buckingham Palace. He will become a Knight Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire, an honour that dates back to 1917, though monarchs have been creating knights for hundreds of years.Among the pomp and grandeur of the formal state rooms at the palace, Gates will kneel in front of the sovereign, who will gently tap him on the shoulder with a sword.The award comes in recognition of his "outstanding contribution to enterprise" but of course, Sir Bill isn't actually Sir Bill - only knights from Commonwealth countries are allowed to use the title.Still, it's one to boast about to the kids. Perhaps Gates can share tips with Lizzy onliving big.Must get draughty in them big ole houses, ma'am.
International open access to research papers on the internet has taken a crucial step closer after a meeting at Southampton University this week, supporters have said.A gathering of 60 academics, publishers and university librarians this week thrashed out practical steps to promote open access - something backed last year by the Commons science and technology committee but so far rejected by the UK government after strenuous lobbying by publishers.But Stevan Harnad, a professor of cognitive science at Southampton and a leading advocate of open access, believes that universities have found a way around previous objections by encouraging academics to self-archive their research papers in repositories at their own universities. These papers would then be accessible by anyone via the internet, providing the author agrees.He told EducationGuardian.co.uk that the spread of the new arrangements would bring great benefits to scientists and other researchers, while funders, universities and even publishers stood to gain. Among publishers, including the giant Elsevier, 92% were in favour of self-archiving, he added.Since a declaration in Berlin two years ago in favour of the principle of open access, there have been efforts to promote open access journals, backed by the Joint Information Systems Committee (Jisc) in the UK and the Public Library of Science in the United States, but progress has been slow.The Southampton meeting was called to put flesh on the bones of the Berlin declaration. Speaking after the meeting, Professor Harnad said it was the "optimal and inevitable solution". He added: "Everybody will benefit from it - researchers will be able to access what they could not before and the impact of their research will go up. At last those who agree open access is a good thing know how to provide it."He said French and German research institutions, the Cern European particle physics lab in Switzerland, and all 12 major universities in the Netherlands were already adopting open access, as well as some British universities like Southampton.The plan is for each university to encourage researchers to place the full text of each paper, along with the title, publication etc (the "metadata") in a repository where, if the author agrees, it can be accessed by fellow researchers all over the world.The carrot (or stick) is that academics will be "invisible" for research assessment purposes if their articles are not in the repository - the institutional repository will be the data on which their performance assessment and the institution's own record-keeping of its own research output will be based. Professor Harnad believes that once researchers have got used to archiving their papers they will agree to open access rather than be pestered with email requests for copies.He argues the availability of the researcher's paper will not hit sales of academic journals and will in fact increase their "impact" (the number of times a paper is cited by other researchers in the field).Researchers will also be encouraged to publish in the few open access journals that exist (5% of titles).
Adidas, the sportswear manufacturer, has come up with a running shoe that uses microtechnology to alter its cushioning depending on the terrain - providing wearers with a more comfortable experience.It's a bit like a digital shock absorber for your tootsies. Here's whatthe Daily Telegraphhas to say:The tiny computer hidden inside the Adidas-1 trainer reacts to its surroundings in real time, adding instant bounce to the shoe on concrete surfaces and providing more support on grass.It also adjusts the feel of the shoe during a burst of speed or when the wearer's legs are tiring. With a price tag of around £175 a pair, the shoes are said to be the most complicated, and comfortable, ever created.Me? You're unlikely to catch me running for bus, let alone wearing a pair of running shoes - but hey, perhaps they'll starting inventing slippers that keep your toes toasty.
Just readthis interesting article(you may have to view a quick ad before you can see the whole piece) on Salon.com, looking at the human story behind the 2003 shooting of two motorists by children claiming to have been influenced by GTA. It is not entirely dissimilar to Blake Morrison's harrowing study of the Jamie Bulger murder,As If. Definitely worth a look if you've already taken a knee-jerk stance on this kind of issue.Meanwhile, GTA is in theUK mainstream mediaagain. The Advertising Standards Authority has responded to complaints concerning violent images in the GTA San Andreas TV ads by banning them from being shown before 9pm. The words 'common' and 'sense' spring immediately to mind.It's incredible really, how this one game has become a kind of videogame touchstone for the mass media – a single convenient representative of an entire industry. Until a year ago it was still Doom (and I mean the original Doom, not Doom III) that the tabloids and erstwhile academics referenced everytime the subject of games came up - usually in relation to violence. But, finally, even the most out of touch rags have realised that this decade-old title is no longer cutting edge.For good or bad, GTA has made that imperceptible slide into mass public conciousness. It now ranks alongside the likes of Pac-Man and Space Invaders as a game thateveryoneknows and understands even if they've never played it. There have been very few examples - Mario for a while, Sonic for a brief moment in the early nineties. Tetris, of course. These titles leave enormous gaps in the videogame chronology, enormous gaps in what videogames are and what they mean.But then, where's the wider human story in most videogame releases?
The great and the good of the video games industry, perhaps unfairly stereotyped as geeks in scruffy jeans and faded T-shirts, last night donned their dickie bows for the industry's Baftas, now in their third year.But the joy of the award winners, led by Sierra for the big selling game Half-Life 2, was tempered by the knowledge that they are still seen as the poor relation of the creative industries.Despite the games industry being worth &#163;2bn a year in Britain alone, and a quarter of all 10- to 35-year-olds class themselves as regular gamers, mainstream coverage of the sector tends to be limited to "scare stories" about contentious releases.Within the industry the view is that the sector's creative merit is underrecognised - though Bafta acknowledgement that it merits an awards ceremony alongside film and television, is seen as a step in the right direction.Mike Rawlinson, deputy director general of the trade body ELSPA (the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association) said yesterday that while there was recognition that games had come a long way since Space Invaders, it would take time to win acceptance on artistic merit. "It's something that's changing as people who have grown up with games get older."The British-made game Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, made by Rockstar Games, whose founders were honoured with a special award last night, grossed more than &#163;24m in its first weekend of sales. Like its predecessors, it achieved the rare crossover of appearing in the style press as well as among the specialist gaming titles.It is rare for a British film to make such a splash on a global scale and yet disgruntled voices point to the film industry getting &#163;700m a year in lottery funding and grants while games firms get nothing.In Japan, by contrast, revered games creators are seen as creative geniuses in the same mould as lauded film directors or rock acts. "You also see that in other emerging markets such as South Korea," Mr Rawlinson said. "The government has worked tirelessly to create a games industry and has made huge inroads in making gaming a cultural asset. But it needs that top down approach."The government is belatedly waking up to the PR potential in pushing the video games industry as a British success story. Patricia Hewitt, the secretary of state for trade and industry, hosted a press conference to praise the achievement of net exports worth &#163;220m brought to the UK, compared with the negative export value of the domestic TV and film industries.Glen O'Connell, a spokesman for Electronic Arts, which last night won an award for the best game for Sony's market leading PS2 console - with Burnout 3: Takedown - said mainstream recognition was important. "Bafta recognising video games increases our profile as Hollywood professionals," he said. "Before Sony got involved 10 years ago, it was essentially a child's industry. Gaming is not just for children any more. Now the average consumers are in their 20s."As hardware improves, with Sony and Microsoft both working on the next generations of their PS2 and Xbox consoles, the creative potential of games should increase, he added. Already, the industry was mirroring Hollywood with expensive blockbuster franchises ranged against "art house" productions that might not sell as well but were more cutting-edge and innovative.New hardware designed to attract a wider family audience, such as Nintendo's Donkey Konga drums and Sony's Eye-Toy device - which each won awards last night - will also broaden appeal.Big media conglomerates have woken up to the potential of a games industry worth &#163;30bn globally. Sierra is owned by Vivendi Universal, while Rupert Murdoch's News International is casting about for suitable acquisitions.EA, the largest independent, has more than 5,000 employees around the world and an annual turnover of about $3bn.Meanwhile the industry is waiting impatiently for the mainstream media to catch up. "It is our desire that games will start to be reviewed alongside music, books, films and theatre and not be confined to the techie pages. They're about entertainment, art and culture," Mr Rawlinson said.And the winners are ...RacingBurnout 3: TakedownSportsPro Evolution Soccer 4Action/adventureHalf-Life 2Online &amp; multiplayer(sponsored by BT)Half-Life 2Children'sDonkey KongaAudioCall of Duty: Finest HourOriginal musicHitman: ContractsAnimationHalf-Life 2Technical directionBurnout 3: TakedownArt directionHalf-Life 2HandheldColin McRae Rally 2005Mobile(sponsored by UK Trade &amp; Investment)Bluetooth BiPlanesPC(sponsored by Intel)Half-Life 2GamecubePrince of Persia: Warrior WithinPS2Burnout 3: TakedownXboxHalo 2Originality(sponsored by Skillset)SingStar/SingStar PartyBest gameHalf-Life 2
"The Sony Ericsson W800 is a long-rumoured Walkman branded phone that attempts to combine the features of a digital music player, mobile phone and camera into the one device," reportsMobile Gazette(with pictures)."It's certainly an impressive and snazzy-looking phone, with up to 30 hours playback time, a powerful set of audio playback applications, 2 megapixel digital camera, FM radio and a 512MB Sony Memory Stick Duo bundled in, but the W800 is certainly no iPod killer."
Seven people have killed themselves within hours of each other in Japan in the latest round of suicides committed after pacts made on the internet.Four people in their 20s and 30s were found dead in a car in a mountainside parking lot in Tochigi prefecture late on Monday. Shortly before 10am yesterday, the bodies of three people, including a 14-year-old girl, were found 30 miles away inside a car parked on a dry riverbed.All seven had apparently died from carbon monoxide poisoning after sealing themselves in the vehicles and inhaling the fumes from charcoal stoves. Police said suicide notes had been found in both cars. The note in the second vehicle indicated that the victims had arranged to die together in internet chatrooms.At least 20 people have killed themselves in group suicides in Japan this year. Last year, 55 were known to have made suicide pacts compared with 34 in 2003, but police admit the true figure may be far higher.Alienated youngsters who leave school with few qualifications and no long-term job prospects are most vulnerable. They meet like-minded people in chatrooms and formulate plans to die together, discussing every detail of how they will spend their final hours.Several internet service providers have blocked access to these sites, but others can easily be found. "Everything is horrible, I want to die," reads one recent posting. "Who will die with me?"The victims take strength from the idea of dying alongside other people. "Dying alone is lonely," Yukio Saito, who runs a suicide helpline, told Reuters. In the absence of strong religious or cultural taboos against suicide, many Japanese see taking their lives as an honourable route out of personal or professional crises.Terumasa Koyanagi, the former president of a railway company involved in a financial scandal, became the latest high-profile victim last month.Suicide sites have been credited with giving troubled youngsters a forum to discuss their feelings anonymously, and there have been reports of users being talked out of killing themselves.The focus on group suicides arranged on the internet has been blamed for diverting attention from the bigger problem of why so many Japanese choose to die by their own hand. Group suicides account for only about 2% of the total in Japan, which has the highest suicide rate in the developing world. Suicides are the country's sixth biggest killer.In 2003, more than 34,000 people committed suicide, a 7% increase on the previous year, according to the police. More than a third were over the age of 60, but there were large rises in the number of deaths among young adults and schoolchildren. Health problems were the single biggest cause, 45%, with about a quarter attributed to business failures and job losses after more than a decade of recession.Despite the greater availability of counselling services, seeking outside help for depression and other psychological disorders is regarded by many as a sign of weakness.This week's deaths came days after Japan's defence agency admitted that a record 78 soldiers had killed themselves in the past 11 months.
Just back from the awards. The big winners were Half Life 2, Burnout 3 and host Jonathan Ross, who made jokes about his fee before regaining some cred with tales of 16-bit console ownership. The losers were GTA: San Andreas and Halo 2 with only one award between them. Vivendi's Half Life 2 picked up six awards including Best Game, Action Adventure and PC. The other big winner was Burnout 3: Takedown which scooped three, including top PlayStation game. Elsewhere Halo 2 won its sole award, top Xbox game, while Singstar deservedly won the originality gong. The only real travesty of the night was Prince or Persia: Warrior Within winning best Gamecube game ahead of the likes of Metroid Prime 2 and Mario Kart Double Dash. And where was Pikmin 2? The other big winner was GTA publisher Rockstar, who won a BAFTA Special Award for their outstanding contribution to the games industry. The full list of winners is this way...Best Game -Half Life 2(no complaints, totally worth the 7 year wait)Racing -Burnout 3: Takedown(at least Need for Speed didn't win)Sports Game -Pro Evolution Soccer 4(of course)Action/Adventure -Half Life 2(had to be, although this was the most competitive award)Online &amp; Multiplayer -Half Life 2(should have been Halo 2, although 2006's winner is already sewn up with WOW)Handheld Game -Colin McRae Rally 2005(expect this category to be a LOT more exciting next year)Animation -Half Life 2(all in the eyes)Technical Direction -Burnout 3(was in the loo for this one)Art Direction -Half Life 2(again, totally deserved, although was getting bored of Vivendi's acceptance speeches by this point)PC Game -Half Life 2(in any other year Rome: Total War would have won)Gamecube -Prince of Persia: Warrior Within(a shocking decision - how did this average *multi-format* game win out over Metroid Prime 2 or Mario Kart?)PS2 -Burnout 3(should this have beaten GTA: San Andreas? No.)Xbox -Halo 2(Riddick should have won this, or maybe Fable, but this award highlighted the high quality of Xbox games in 2004)Mobile -Blue Tooth Biplanes(er Keith, have you played this?)Audio -Call of Duty: Finest Hour(no complaints here)Original Music -Hitman: Contracts(again, the right choice)Children's -Donkey Konga(children's?!)BAFTA Special Award for outstanding contribution to the Games Industry -Rockstar(yup, they deserved this one, especially for the way the GTA games have widened the market while retaining huge depth. And for using Flock of Seagulls in Vice City)Sunday Times Readers Award -Football Manager 2005
The European Commission is refusing to start the debate over software patents, and compaigners are - understandably - getting their knickers in a twist. FromZDNet:The European Commission (EC) has rejected requests to rewrite the Computer Implemented Inventions Directive (CIID), sparking a furious response from campaigners who accused the EC of acting undemocratically.An EC spokesman confirmed on Monday that the Commission had declined requests from the European Parliament to go back to basics on the CIID, which opponents claim will allow the widespread patenting of software in Europe."We expect the European Council to formalise the common position. The Commission stands ready to review all aspects of the directive," said the EC spokesman, adding that this meant that changes could yet be made to the directive when it reaches the European Parliament.It comes on the back ofour storiesabout how the BBC's online operations could be under threat as the commission reviews public service broadcasters and their role in digital development.These moves in Europe have got very little mainstream press - probably because it's quite a convoluted subject and not very sexy. But there's a lot at stake here, especially when you consider that the big hitters pay thousands to lobby the legislature while.And, at the heart of it all, the decision-making process is pretty much unaccountable - the best we, as citizens, can do is try to keep tabs on it.
The movement to increase free online access to scientific research will receive a boost today as academics, publishers and librarians thrash out a new plan for open access.The movement to persuade academics to place their research online has been gaining momentum over recent years, presenting a headache for traditional publishers who make their money selling subscriptions to their journals.The rising price of these magazines has put a strain on library budgets and created an information bottleneck.But at a two-day meeting in Southampton yesterday and today, delegates from across the world of scientific publishing will be presented with a new plan for open access.Stevan Harnad, professor of cognitive science at the University of Southampton, will present a proposal that could revolutionise how academics and the public view research.A vague declaration in support of open access was made two years ago in Berlin."The purpose of this meeting is to turn that into something that can get open access moving," he said.Last summer a committee of MPs recommended that the government help universities to set up their own online archives, on to which academics could place research papers and help fund a central repository. The government's response was lukewarm.Known as the "keystroke strategy", Prof Harnad's plan, which has already been put in place at his own university, calls for all academics who have had research papers accepted by journals to place information about the paper - such as its title and author, known as metadata - on a university's own archive for all to see. Alongside that should be a copy of the article itself.He also believes that universities and research funders should require that their researchers comply. Some universities already do this and a statement from the UK's major research councils about this subject is expected soon.The keystroke comes into play because some publishers will not allow publication of articles elsewhere. Prof Harnad and others are proposing that academics prepare both their metadata and articles for publication, publish their metadata and then decide whether or not to hit the final key to upload the article.In fact, 92% of academic publishers already allow such author self-archiving so overnight the change proposed in Southampton could produce a flood of freely available scientific research.Reed Elsevier is one publisher that has already changed its copyright rules to allow self-archiving. But the Anglo-Dutch conglomerate has raised concerns that could reduce spending on both downloads from its own websites and subscriptions to journals produced by learned societies.Delegates to the Berlin No 3 open access conference yesterday, however, heard Alma Swan, of the market researchers Key Perspectives, who has studied the impact of a long-established physics repository on two learned societies. She found their journal subscriptions had merely declined in line with the rest of the market and "learned societies are not going bankrupt as a result of self-archiving".She added that downloads from subscription-based archives, such as Reed Elsevier's Science Direct, would not suffer provided any self-archived research includes a link to the page on the web.Delegates also heard from Tony Hey, who works with the government as director of E-Science UK to foster better sharing of scientific data, about recent steps to have not just research but data freely available on the internet from research laboratories such as Cern in Switzerland. "We're trying to do what the internet was built for," he said.
I'm going to the BAFTA Games awards tonight, which means I'll be surrounded by developers (unrecognisably clean shaven, likely to be fidgeting with their bow ties) and marketing people (recognisably drunk, likely to need reminding which awards ceremony they are at). This is the second BAFTA games event and like last year I expect GTA to do well. But the competition is more varied this year - 2004 was, after all, the finest 12 months of gaming since the 80s - with Half Life 2 likely to do very well indeed. The full nomination list ishere. And yes, you may wonder why Myst IV is nominated for PC game of the year, although it's good to see the underratedChronicles of Riddickget so much recognition.
Jef Raskin, a computer interface expert who conceived Apple Computer Inc's ground-breaking Macintosh computer but left the company before it came to market, has died. He was 61.Raskin died on Saturday in Pacifica, two months after he revealed he had been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer.Raskin joined Apple in 1978 to start the company's publications department. In 1979, he headed a small team to work on the idea of creating an easy-to-use, affordable computer. He left the company in 1982 and founded another computer company, Information Appliance, and designed another computer that incorporated his ideas. He also wrote a book, The Humane Interface, which was published in 2000.Raskin also pursued other interests. He conducted the San Francisco Chamber Opera Society and played three instruments. His artwork was displayed at New York's Museum of Modern Art.
"Sony will stop making personal digital assistants for Japan in July, completing its withdrawal from a market hit by multi-functional mobiles and casting a shadow over the devices' growth potential," reportsReuters."Sony was the largest PDA maker in the Japanese domestic market in 2003 with a 32.1 per cent share by unit shipments, followed by Sharp's 19.5 per cent and Casio with 16.4 per cent, according to research firm Gartner."
THQ Wireless has officially announced its licensing deal with MTV Networks International to bring South Park to mobile phones. The company is working on five games and will also be releasing wallpapers, ring tones, screen savers and multimedia messages drawn from the hit scatological cartoon series.As part of the deal, THQ is also going to be making short clips of Season Eight available for phone download before the series is aired on TV. Doubtless this will become a popular model as the relationship between mobile content publishers and media companies grows in both intimacy and interdependence. We've already seen the mobile-exclusive episodes of 24, used to publicise the current TV series, and of course, most network operators now offer the latest movie trailers for download from their online portals. With countless millions of enthusiastic mobile users worldwide, it's the perfect platform to increase awareness of forthcoming media products.Anyway back to those games...The first title in the South Park series will be South Park Sports Day, due out early next month. The title features a selection of predictably tasteless events including fart hurdles and German dancing. Later we'll see Save Kenny, where you have to protect the hooded trailer park victim from various incoming threats. Sort of Missile Command meets, erm, South Park.Do people still watch South Park? I'm genuinely interested.No such worries about THQ Wireless'otherbig licensing deal - Star Wars. The company has a couple of games in development, one based around Episode III and another casual mass-market title. I don't think I'm allowed to reveal what this is, but it's quite funny and useful, and it involves Yoda. Said too much I have.
ITV and Channel 4 are to submit final bids today for a new slot on Freeview, which could cost the broadcasters up to &#163;7m a year.The board of Crown Castle, which owns the new free-to-air slot, is meeting today to decide on the rival bids. To complicate matters, Channel 4 is understood to have offered a range of prices, dependent on the duration of the contract among other things.Most analysts expect the winner to pay about &#163;5m a year for the slot, a five-fold increase on the going rate when Freeview was relaunched in October 2002.The new 18-hour slot, due to start broadcasting on April 1, will operate as a 12-month contract at first. Both ITV and Channel 4 are understood to   want longer-term guarantees from Crown Castle.The winner, expected to be announced shortly, will have seen off competition from several other media groups, including the terrestrial broadcaster Five and the US groups Disney, Turner Broadcasting and NBC Universal.A Freeview slot is particularly desirable for ITV and Channel 4 as they are both committed to expanding their free-to-air channels.As commercial broadcasters, they benefit from the greater audience share enjoyed on Freeview compared with cable and satellite platforms offered by NTL, Telewest and BSkyB. Freeview offers fewer channels than the other platforms.With BBC channels making up a greater proportion of the 30-plus channels on offer, the share of all-important "com mercial impacts" based on the number of people watching adverts also increases.The board of Channel 4, which is also meeting today, has taken a strategic decision to expand its free-to-air channels.Subscribers to the entertainment channel E4 are expected to pay nothing by the end of this year. The chief executive, Andy Duncan, who was an architect of Freeview at the BBC before taking up the Channel 4 job last year, has also said that he wants a planned channel, More4, to be free-to-air with revenues gained from adverts.ITV is considering new channels based on Men and Motors, or a gaming channel. ITV and Channel 4 declined to join the BBC, Sky and Crown Castle when Freeview was launched.
Jef Raskin, known as the father of the Mac, died this weekend at the age of 61.We interviewed him back in October with a piece that kicked up something of a storm for his assertion that "the Mac is now a mess". That line said a lot about his dedication to clean, cheap, usable design.It is that dedication which made him known inside the technology industry - initially for his contributions as an Apple employee. Joining as the company's 31st employee in 1978, he was soon made head of the team tasked with developing the firm's flagship home computer. Raskin named the Macintosh after his favourite variety of apple (not before tweaking the name for copyright reasons) and was part of a team which helped pioneer the "click and drag" interface that is now the bedrock of home computing.We take such things for granted these days, but when Apple championed it, graphical user interface became a design revolution. It is now 21 years since Steve Jobsfirst unveiled the Macintosh, but by that point Raskin had already left following a dispute.Raskin's CV reads something like a masterclass in being a polymath: he was an accomplished musician, programmer and designer. Above all, though, he was dedicated to interfaces that people could use. "Jef viewed good design as a moral duty, holding interface designers to the same ethical standards as surgeons," his family said in a statement released on hiswebsite.A native New Yorker, Raskin studied mathematics, philosophy and computer science before moving to California in 1967 - at the height of the counterculture movement - to study electronic and computer music. His move coincided with the beginnings of Silicon Valley, and soon he was at the heart of the technology revolution.After leaving Apple, he founded the firm Information Appliance to continue building computer interfaces - including the Canon Cat - and spent much of the last decade championing human-computer design in books likeThe Humane Interfaceand writing for the likes of Wired Magazine and Forbes.Raskin remained a vociferous correspondent - keepingregular contactwith Online - and consistently maintained that he was misrepresented by a number of books about the early days of Apple. The things claimed by all camps remain in dispute, but one fact that cannot be denied is that Raskin helped change the face of computing as we know it.Perhaps it is best to sum up his contribution in the words he told Online last year:"I am only a footnote, but proud of the footnote I have become."(You can read more atSlashdot, theBeeb, and theNew York Timesand, of course, atJefRaskin dot com)
A week on and I am still numb. This time last week I arrived at the office and fired up our web stats software to see who had dropped into the site over the weekend. It did not take me long to realise that something was horribly wrong. One visitor had arrived after searching Google for "Hunter S Thompson died". Another had searched for "Hunter Thompson how died". And so on. The story had broken too late to catch the morning papers, so the first I heard of the death of the greatest journalist ever was from a list of search results.I tried to write an instant obituary of sorts for the Friday Thing but as I started surfing for background information, I realised that there was no point. Hundreds of ezines and blogs had already begun chronicling the life of the great man, linking to snippets of his work, and considering why he might choose to take his own life at this time.The tributes were not all fond - some bloggers even called him a coward for quitting just when the world needed him most. Crap. Thompson's time had long gone. He was a typewriter-and-print man and as such he needed a mass-circulation magazine or newspaper with the courage to print his words. Tragically, that kind of print publication does not exist any more. Look at what the once-mighty Rolling Stone has become - dependent on The Man for access and banning staffers from drinking alcohol during lunch meetings. Nice one, Jann. Rock and roll.The world needed Thompson most during the Nixon era - and he delivered, in spades. If, 30 years on, we still have not found a replacement, then that is the world's failing, not his. But the bloggers do have a point - no matter what Will Self's nocturnal fantasies might lead him to believe, there is no obvious heir to the Gonzo throne.And yet consider Thompson's modus operandi. He was fiercely opinionated; he documented almost every aspect of his life, as if not committing something to paper meant it had not really happened; he used the power of the fax to get answers from people in power (the equivalent today would be email); he consumed the media as if his life depended on it, tearing it apart and writing up the results for a potential audience of millions ... If he wasn't the archetypal blogger I don't know who was.With the traditional media, particularly in the US, rapidly turning to unquestioning mush, and blogs being responsible for more and more muckraking and story-breaking, Thompson's death is the perfect time for bloggers to be recognised as the nearest thing we have to Gonzo journalism. There is just one problem - with very few exceptions, bloggers are embarrassingly, pathetically lazy. When Thompson got excited by a story, he would get on a plane and make himself part of it. How could he know what was really going on if he never left his "heavily fortified compound" in Woody Creek? And yet hand most bloggers a tip on a silver platter and they will publish it verbatim, without so much as follow-up phonecall.Of course, there are good reasons why bloggers can not be as dedicated as Thompson was. Firstly, Thompson was paid for his work while bloggers do it for love and the occasional Paypal donation. Secondly, Thompson had press accreditation to major events while bloggers do not. Yeah, right. Sites such as Gawker and Wonkette have shown that advertisers are more than willing to pay handsomely for first-person online journalism, especially if it is edgy and has a unique voice. And that is before you consider the spin-off opportunities that have been realised by the likes of the Baghdad Blogger and Belle de Jour. And as for access - anyone with a decent audience and even cursory blagging skills can get accreditation to cover almost anything (our writers were gaining access to ministers and arms fairs months before anyone had heard of us). The money and access are there for the taking - you have just got to want them.It is time for bloggers to start taking their responsibilities seriously. That means putting on their reporting shoes, leaving their bedrooms, buying a notepad and throwing themselves into covering the stories that no one in the traditional media would dare to, or care to. George W Bush is our Richard Nixon, Google is our Rolling Stone, the going has got weird - and it's time for the weird to turn pro.Paul Carr is editor-in-chief of the Friday Project (www.thefridayproject.co.uk). He points out that he has nothing to do with The Friday Night Project
Wait long enough by a public telephone box and someone will walk past and make a call.But in the age of mobile phones, Blackberrys and Wi-Fi communication, the phonebox is liable to function only as a backdrop.Consequently, British Telecom says it wants a review of its obligation to maintain its 70,000 loss-making boxes.For BT, the reasons are financial. Each costs about &#163;2,000 a year to maintain, and BT says 60% of them lose money. Some take as little as &#163;5 or &#163;10 a year, which, at an average cost of 30p a time, could mean as few as 16 users a year bellowing: "Can you hear me? I'm in a phone box!"Since its privatisation BT has been obliged to keep most of the loss-making boxes in place.But the obligation was imposed before the mobile phone moved from science fiction to everyday item. And it also faces competition from rivals able to choose where to site their phoneboxes, without having to fund ones few use.In Mill Hill, north London, sits one of the traditional red phone box now under threat. Yesterday two women with dogs walked past. "I used one   on Friday," said Lynn, wrapped up in a thick black fur hat and trailing two greyhounds."My mobile ran out of battery and I had to contact a friend. I was shocked at how expensive it was - it's 30p now isn't it?"Thirty pence is indeed the figure that flashes up when the receiver is removed.("That's ridiculously expensive," said the Guardian photographer earlier, reaching for his mobile, before saying: "Wait. I don't have a signal.")But Lynn said that unprofitable boxes should not be replaced."People need it. I think especially in remote areas you need them, in case it's an emergency. Especially in cold weather, the signal on the phone sometimes cuts out."We waited. Two women, one of whom looked very suspiciously at the camera, strode past, evidently dressed for walking and focused on that. They did not stop."We do a five-mile walk   every day and we don't always carry a mobile. We needed to use a phone box yesterday, but that one down the road is always broken," one said"They can't get rid of them. We need them, especially out here. What if you're driving along at night and don't have a mobile?"Finally she stopped. "It's dreadful to lose them, that's my opinion."And she strode off.Surprisingly, those who use phone boxes most are not the   elderly or pining lovers. A survey for Oftel in 2003 found that 15- to 24-year-olds were the highest users, the very age group that used mobiles most. The 65+ group reported the lowest use of both payphones and mobiles.BT says the universal service obligation is unfair on it, pointing out that increased mobile phone use has halved the revenue from payphones in the past three years."Where's the obligation on mobile companies perhaps to   band together and provide coverage in remote areas?" a company spokesman said."There are two aspects of payphones we're concerned about: how they are funded in the future, and the procedures we have to go through to remove a payphone."BT will raise these issues with Ofcom."In Mill Hill the afternoon wore on. And then the snow arrived. And still there was no one keen to contribute 30p to the payphone's survival.
Better late than never dept: "Virtual girlfriend" programs were, briefly, a talking point on home computers, andArtificial Life Incof Hong Kong is now offering one you can take out -- via your 3G mobile phone."Vivienne likes to be taken to movies and bars. She loves to be given virtual flowers and chocolates, and she can translate six languages if you travel overseas. She never undresses, although she has some skimpy outfits for the gym, and is a tease who draws the line at anything beyond blowing kisses," reportsThe New York Times."She can converse on 35,000 topics, from philosophy to movies to sculpture. Artificial Life tweaked and reused close to 70,000 questions and answers on banking alone for Vivienne -- those questions were developed for an unrelated contract for a Swiss private bank."However, it is going to be tedious communicating with Vivienne. She has a synthesised voice, but you have to type everything....Incidentally, this story appeared on theBBC Newssite on August 23, 2004. The V-Girl programme also won a prize in theEricsson Mobile Application Awardslast year -- in the Best Mobile Gaming category.
The European Commission is planning a frontal assault on public service broadcasters throughout Europe, including the BBC, and threatening them with a residual role as niche players in the digital multimedia era, German sources warned last night.Just as the BBC is negotiating its charter renewal, the commission is said to be ready to interfere directly with broadcasters' charters drawn up by national governments by placing new and severe restrictions on their right to offer online services.The EU's competition authorities, headed by the Dutch commissioner, Neelie Kroes, are set to cave in to pressure exerted by commercial channels and enact a new policy favouring the latter's competitive edge in digital, multimedia offerings, it is feared.The warnings come ahead of Thursday's expected decision by the commission's competition directorate to set out its "provisional legal opinion" on allegedly unlawful state aid to the two German public service broadcasters, ARD and ZDF.The decision, which follows complaints from commercial broadcasters, will give Berlin at least four weeks to respond   and could lead to formal infringement proceedings being taken against the government of the chancellor, Gerhard Schr&#246;der, for violations of state aid laws.It is understood that both ARD and ZDF, which are ultimately controlled by Germany's 16 federal states, are in close contact with senior BBC executives and other EU public broadcasters about the implications of the case, including for the licence fee and spin-off commercial activities on the internet.The German sources warned that it could prompt a legal showdown between Germany's constitutional court - which guarantees both ARD and ZDF the right to extensive web-based services - and the European Court of Justice and/or the commission.Ms Kroes is understood to have concluded that the licence fee - some &euro;17 (&#163;11) a month in Germany, slightly more than the BBC's - does not constitute unlawful state aid. But, it is said, she has serious misgivings about its use to fund internet services, seeing it as an illegal cross-subsidy.Public service broadcasters fear that Ms Kroes has been unduly influenced by last year's paper issued by the Association of Commercial Television, the European Publishers Council and the Association of European Radio, which labelled the recent audience growth among their public rivals as the result of "unfair" competition sponsored by governments.They have seized on recent commission decisions regarding the BBC's "digital curriculum" (online Open University services), Denmark's TV2 and the Netherland's NOS as reversing previous rulings which uphold public broadcasters' charter rights to offer broad-based "technologically neutral" services, including digital, interactive programmes.German broadcasting sources regard these interventions as directly contrary to previous EU decisions upholding the BBC's right to go ahead with News 24 and nine digital TV and radio channels or ARD's special interest channels, Phoenix and Kinderkanal.In an effort to head off a confrontation, ARD and ZDF are to limit their online services, to programme-related content. Their subsidiaries are separate units for accounting purposes, with no cross-subsidies from the licence fee, and only 0.75% of the channels' overall budget is spent on them.
YouGov, the online polling company set up by two former aides to Jeffrey Archer, is hoping to list on Aim this summer.Advisers hope that the company, which was founded five years ago, will be valued at about &#163;15m, making paper millionaires of the founders and joint chief executives, Nadhim Zahawi and Stephan Shakespeare. The two men each control 37%, the latter through a family trust.They will keep a controlling stake following flotation, which also aims to raise several million pounds for the company. The new money will help fund organic growth as well as acquisitions.Although there are several long-established polling organisation, the industry is highly fragmented and YouGov hopes to snap up competitors. Larger rivals such as NOP, which has been put up for sale by its owner, UBM, tend to be owned by big corporations or remain private.YouGov has grown quickly on the back of its rapid-response polling based on online interviews with a 75,000-strong panel. In the year to July 31, the company made a pre-tax profit of &#163;600,000 on sales of &#163;1.9m.The company's 120 clients include major national newspapers, broadcasters and magazines as well as businesses such as Asda and British Gas. Its client base increased 50% last year. Although it came to prominence when used by the Conservative party during the last election, 70% of the company's turnover comes from corporate clients rather than social or political polling.Mr Zahawi, a Tory councillor for Wandsworth, London, said yesterday: "YouGov has come a long way in a short time and developed a strong, competitive position in market research and polling through the use of online panels."The Kurdish-born businessman, was Lord Archer's campaign director before the 2000 London mayoral elections, made it to the last six for the Tory seat of Surrey Heath last year. Mr Shakespeare is Lord Archer's former press secretary.
Just taking a moment to welcome theObserver Blogto the world. Like the precocious kid sister that you know is going to outperform you,Cynics have already got in with a few punches: "this is not a genuine blog", and "this is mainstream media pretending to blog" etc.I find this funny for a couple of reasons.Firstly because very few people have complained to me about Onlineblog being an extension of big media. And that's been around for much longer than the Observer (indeed, there are those who seem to think that OB is the first blog within the Guardian Media Group... I'dbegtodiffer).The second reason is that bloggers - at least the ones who like to ride that big old nag called the high horse - spend a lot of their time deriding big media for "not getting it", for toeing the party line, for. And then when someone breaks out of the fold, they say "that's just corporate guff". You just can't do the right thing sometimes.The third reason is that I've not got the same view of blogs that many journalists hold. I've actually been writingmy personal weblogfor longer than I've been a professional hack. I'm still not very good at it, but I don't see this huge divergence between forms that angry partisan writers on both sides of the divide seem to envisage. I see online publishers, I see bloggers, I see all the shades in between.Anyway, I digress. What I really meant to say was: welcome to the world, junior.
My bike was stolen the other day. I blame the internet. Seriously, I do. It was secured with a lock made by a company called Kryptonite. What I didn't know but millions who logged on tobikeforums.netdid, was that some old Kryptonite locks could be picked with a ballpoint pen.It could have been worse. I only lost a bike. Last year, four reporters for US news network CBS lost their jobs after bloggers exposed as forgeries the documents in a CBS story claiming to prove that George W Bush failed to report for duty in the Texas Air National Guard.The internet is unforgiving of error. There is an irony in this. The charge most often levelled against the internet is that it is full of lies; that it is an unreliable source of information.In fact, the internet is as deceitful or otherwise as the non-internet, because it consists of people. There is fraud in the world and so, inevitably, there is internet fraud.Deciding what is reliable and what is unreliable has never been a matter of technology. It's a question of literacy in human relations, which sometimes has to be relearned for new environments. The bumpkin fresh off the coach in the big city is soon lightened of his purse by the stranger who offers help. It is not a mistake he makes twice.So who to trust?The best example yet of the capacity of the internet to coalesce into self-regulating networks is Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia written by whoever wants to go and edit it. It is not as authoritative as Britannica, and it gives disproportionate weight to transient phenomena. But it does give a reliable steer on most subjects. It is not anarchic, there is a hierarchy of more trusted writers who have earned their privileges over time. Editorial access to controversial entries - 'George Bush', 'Palestine', for example - is restricted to see off vandals. A South Korean online newspaper Ohmynews is compiled along similar principles. At this point journalists and compilers of encyclopedias roll their eyes. Their reaction is justified in so far as professionals hate to see a job done badly. But fear of competition plays a part.There are some very good blogs (as compilations and online journals or weblogs have become know). They demonstrate what columnists have known for years, that sitting at the computer, stroking the cat, thinking big thoughts and writing them down is a pleasure. To be paid to do so is a privilege, ideally one enjoyed by those who have something exclusive to share, political insiders, for example. Rightly or wrongly, most old media pundits do not see themselves as the peers of readers.Bloggers, on the other hand, are subject to constant peer review. The speed and brutal effectiveness with which they are held to account is already crossing over into the mainstream. Ultimately, it will change the way political and cultural debate is conducted.New technology means that anyone (in the rich parts of the world) has the capacity to publish with a reach to rival long-established media institutions.Old media, meanwhile, historically see their relationship with power in adversarial terms. But they are also traditionally gatekeepers of information - much of which is now being shared peer-to-peer on the internet. That makes them increasingly look like accomplices of power.In a world where people get their news on screen, a reputation for independence, accuracy, good judgment accrues to a brand, which can as easily be an individual at home in pyjamas as a bricks and mortar institution. The good news for old media is that their brands are as powerful online as off. People still prefer bbcnews.com to lonenutter.com. The bad news is that mistakes and omissions are exposed at a hyper-accelerated rate. Whether you make bike locks or news, your brand can quickly turn to dust.For those that don't pay attention to the internet, the frightening thing isn't how alien it is, but how it is exactly like the real world, only more so.Our blog goes live today:observer.co.uk/blog
Nothing concentrates the mind, said Dr Johnson, like the prospect of being hanged in the morning. Well, yes. But a computer crash comes a pretty close second.A week ago, I noticed that my laptop appeared to be running slowly. On investigation, I realised this was probably because I was running an unreasonable combination of large programs - the poor machine was simply running out of memory. So I took it to the dealer and requested extra RAM. He installed it, handed back my machine, parted me from money and that was that.Back home, I loaded up my software working environment and resumed where I had left off. After a few minutes, the machine froze. Puzzled (because this generally doesn't happen with the current Mac operating system), I did the only thing possible - a hard reset. On rebooting, I began launching programs one by one to see if any particular one was causing the problem. Again the machine froze. Again I rebooted. This time I was confronted by an alarming spectacle. The computer had returned to its factory-set default state - one with no user accounts. A device that had been my closest working companion, which held every document I've ever written, every digital   photograph I've ever taken, every music CD I've ever owned, was suddenly denying all knowledge of me.Of course I had back-ups. My documents are copied on to an iPod and another external hard drive. But documents are just the tip of an iceberg. A working environment like mine has dozens of specialised programs, each with its own registration keys and installed updates and preference files. I could reconstruct this environment - but it would take days of effort.So I called a colleague who has forgotten more about this stuff than I will ever know. He was puzzled because none of the normal Unix tools could repair the damage (caused by a faulty memory chip, by the way).In the end we bought and downloaded a terrific program called DiskWarrior which, after much whirring and clicking, sorted the problem and gave me back a machine which now deigned to recognise its owner.The next day, I overheard another technically adept colleague patiently helping a relative sort out a computer problem over the phone, and I suddenly realised that there are two kinds of computer users: those who have technologically sophisticated friends, and those who have to rely on dealers, anonymous tech 'support' lines or their own meagre resources.There is, in other words, another 'digital divide' - between those who can get personalised, courteous, knowledgeable, sensitive help with their computer problems, and those who do not have access to such riches.People who work in large organisations can generally get relatively competent technical support. But the average person who buys a PC for home use is at the mercy of clueless, box-shifting dealers or impersonal (and expensive) tech-support lines. So when a hard drive or a power-  supply fails, or a virus corrupts the machine, or valuable files are damaged, there's nobody to turn to.This is a huge problem worldwide. Computers - especially PCs running Windows - are fantastically complex devices. Most computer users haven't a clue about how they work. (Nor should they - for them, a computer is merely a means to an end.)But because complex devices inevitably malfunction, their owners are generally unable to comprehend either what's wrong, or how   to fix it. I know of people who have had their PCs seriously damaged by viruses. In the end, they have taken them back to the dealer, who has helpfully re-formatted the hard drive - erasing everything on it - and handed the machine back, on payment of a hefty fee.So the absence of tech support for 'ordinary' people is a big problem. But could it also be an opportunity? Is there a business in providing sensitive, tactful, knowledgeable support for non-technical users? After all, people make a living out of assembling flat-pack furniture for harassed Ikea customers.The business model would be that you pay an annual subscription - say &#163;100 - to mypersonalgeek.co.uk. In return you get a guarantee that you can talk to a sympathetic, knowledgeable adviser whenever you have a problem. Ideally, the company would need to know things about you - how you work, what programs you use, how familiar you are with the technology, so that when you phone for help the adviser knows the context in which the problem arises. Other services could be built on top of that relationship: regular back-ups of your files online, virus-scanning, spam-blocking, forwarding of email when you're away... The possibilities are endless.Please accept this idea with my compliments. Personally I've decided that instead of buying a yacht when I win the lottery I'm going to hire my own, personal techie.www.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
"The primarily amateur Internet audio medium known as podcasting will take a small, hopeful step on Friday toward becoming the commercial Web's next big thing. That step is planned byOdeo, a five-person start-up that is based in a walk-up apartment in this city's Mission District and was co-founded by a Google alumnus. The company plans to introduce a Web-based system that is aimed at making a business of podcasting - the process of creating, finding, organizing and listening to digital audio files that range from living-room ramblings to BBC newscasts," writes John Markoff inThe New York Times."Odeo, which is scheduled to make its formal debut on Friday at the Technology, Entertainment &amp; Design Conference in Monterey, Calif., was founded by Noah Glass and Evan Williams, two pioneers of the Web logging, or blogging, movement."Mr. Williams, who is 32, helped found a maker of Web logging software, Pyra Labs, which he sold to Google in 2003 for an undisclosed amount of stock, and then stayed at the company until last October. He predicts that podcasting will repeat the steep growth curve of the text blogging phenomenon - which went from only a few thousand blogs when he entered the field in 1999 to more than 7.3 million today."Comment: Ev tells his own story atEvhead, and, of course, there'sThe Odeo Blog.
Michael Gorman, president-elect of the American Library Association and Dean of Library Services at California State University, Fresno, wrote a brief comment about Google's book digitisation program in the LA Times --Google and God's Mind-- which you can download in PDF formhere.This got him attacked by bloggers who mainly missed the point, and now he has replied inLibrary Journal. He says, among other things:It is obvious that the Blog People read what they want to read rather than what is in front of them and judge me to be wrong on the basis of what they think rather than what I actually wrote. Given the quality of the writing in the blogs I have seen, I doubt that many of the Blog People are in the habit of sustained reading of complex texts. It is entirely possible that their intellectual needs are met by an accumulation of random facts and paragraphs. In that case, their rejection of my view is quite understandable.
Looking to gain a stronger foothold in Japan, Microsoft's Xbox division said today it has hired Hironobu Sakaguchi, the creator of the "Final Fantasy" franchise, to develop two games exclusively for the next-generation Xbox console," reportsThe Seattle Times."Sakaguchi and his studio will create two role-playing video games, which will be published by Microsoft Game Studios and released to the Japanese market. Microsoft would not say what the games would be or when they will be released."The Xbox has not become the success in Japan that Microsoft had hoped for. The company has only sold 1.7 million Xbox consoles in Asia, compared with 13.2 million sold in North America and 5 million in Europe. The company has not given a breakdown of Japan-specific sales."
The European commission is threatening to fine Microsoft 5% of its global revenue for failing to comply with the sanctions imposed last year in a landmark antitrust ruling, it emerged yesterday.Relations between the EU's competition authorities - which fined the software group a record &euro;497m (&#163;343m) - and Microsoft have sunk to a new low, even though the company said two months ago it would comply with court rulings that it implements EU "remedies" forthwith.In December, Microsoft lost its appeal at the court of first instance, the EU's second highest court, against the twin interim sanctions imposed by Brussels and set itself a six-week deadline for complying.It has already posted details of its secret protocols enabling rival software companies to offer servers that are inter-operable with its Windows operating system, but is now in dispute with the commission over the licence fees or royalties competitors should pay.Another row has broken out over the name it proposes giving to the version of Windows   without the MediaPlayer audiovisual programme which it is making available to PC manufacturers - and was due to be on sale in European outlets this month.The EU's competition authorities, headed by Neelie Kroes, the Dutch commissioner, have rejected out of hand Microsoft's initial suggestion of calling the "degraded" version of its operating system "Windows reduced media edition" - viewed as a serious deterrent to consumers. Other proposed names have also been rejected.Yesterday the commission confirmed that it was consult ing retailers and rival manufacturers, including RealNetworks and Samba, the open source operator, about Microsoft's steps to comply with the twin sanctions. These are due to be completed by the end of next week.If negotiations break down, Brussels could impose new fines of 5% a day of Microsoft's daily global revenues. The software group, which expects annual sales of around $40bn (&#163;20.8bn) this year, said last month it had made record revenues of $10.8bn in the final quarter of 2004.A commission spokesman said: "We will decide whether we consider the proposals from Microsoft are satisfactory or not in the light of reactions in the market place." A decision could come as early as next month.Privately, officials are angry at what are seen as Microsoft's underhand, prevaricating efforts to lessen the impact of the sanctions. The software group, however, insisted: "We are fully committed to implementation of the commission's and the court's decisions."
For some, it's called a zapper. For others it's a tweaker or a beeper. Some even refer to it as the "dooflicker". But whatever you call your television's remote control, get ready for it to disappear.The potential death knell of the remote controls that clutter houses around the globe   was sounded this week when a technology system was unveiled that will allow viewers to operate their TV sets by talking to them.Opera, a Norwegian software company, has linked up with the computing giant IBM to produce a product designed to revolutionise channel-changing.By using a microphone,   viewers can ask the TV to complete a series of tasks.For example, saying "show films" brings up a display of movies currently showing, while asking "what's on TV tonight?" shows the evening's listings.Users could say "watch Friends" if they so desired or, if they were planning a night out, they could tell their television to "record Friends" instead."It has enormous potential in the integrated home media market," said Jon von Tetzchner, the chief executive of Opera."It is ideal for applications such as electronic programme guides, video on demand, web browsing and other interactive services."For many, the move could not come fast enough. A recent survey showed that 52% of British households had accumulated five or more remote controls for home entertainment products. A quarter of homes have at least seven, and many families complain of "technological overload".But intelligent voice recognition software has long been   the holy grail of technologists. Eager to improve on current low-tech interfaces - such as the keyboard, mouse and remote control - they have been making steady advances.In-car satellite navigation systems are already using voice recognition for safety reasons. Many call centres also use the technology to help direct calls more efficiently,   and medical researchers are using it to assist those with limited mobility. But until now, few have dared to approach the home consumer market.Opera says that the only thing holding back developments is the electronics industry itself. "The technology is there, but it's not being used," said a company spokesman.But it could be some time before the new facility is available on the high street.Paul O'Donovan, principal analyst with Gartner Research, said: "It will definitely add to the cost of manufacture at a time when the consumer electronics industry is more competitive than ever."Perhaps it's not time to ditch the dooflicker just yet.
