"Winklets you search across the Tagosphere. If you're using del.icio.us, Digg, Slashdot, and/or Yahoo MyWeb, this is your search engine. Find the latest links that people like you think are great. Enjoy!" says the site, which is now in OB1 (Open beta one. No Star Wars jokes, please).If you search on, say, Star Wars you get three results. First there's the Wink search, where the top hit isel baile de yoda- Google Video - 13 Nov 2005. Below that are the standard Google search results, which start withStar Wars: Welcome to the Official Site. You can also click a tab for Wink Answers. In this case it offers a bit about the movie from iMDB, plus a bunch of links. Many answers are drawn from Wikipedia and you can also edit Wink Answers. (You could add a reference to the Strategic Defense Initiative type of serious Star Wars.)The search results are also variable. The site says:These are results recommended by people. They will get better as more people participate. If you think a link should be returned for this search, just tag it with the search term, and your vote will be counted!The Yoda video, for example, has 37 recommendations. You have to sign up with a password to participate, but you don't always have to go to the site: you can tag pages from a browser or via Delicious.Need more? There's quite a goodFAQand aWink blog
I'm just putting together an end of the year round-up for Gamesblog, digging out the most interesting, maddening or unusual posts and debates from 2005 - but, being a sleep-deprived new dad with a fading grip on reality, I need your help.So, what have been your favourite/least favourite Gamesblog moments of the year? Which arguments have you really enjoyed in the comments sections? Let me know here and I'll gather up all your thoughts and suggestions into my bumper Christmas review (which I'll post sometime between December 26 and January 1). Come on, let us have it!
Le renard brun rapide saute par-dessus le chien paresseux. Est maintenant l'heure pour tous les bons hommes de venir à l'aide de la partie.TheAJAX Translatoris a clever little site created by Joel Parish. Using AJAX programming, it lets you type words in one language and watch a translation appearing in another language.Oddly it works fine in Firefox, but in IE6 I can only translate things into Spanish. This may be down to my defensive firewall/browser/etc settings but at the moment I don't have time to find out ;-)
Blogging - the practice of writing online journals - has just received a timely fillip with the news that Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, has started one of his own. It is a bit of a surprise that he doesn't already have one since almost anyone who is anyone in the blogosphere has. However, Sir Tim's endorsement of blogging as embodying the spirit of shared creativity that inspired him to invent the web (and make it freely available to everyone) may help give it the boost it needs to become mainstream.Make no mistake, although blogging has been widely reported in this and other newspapers, it is still a minority sport even among media people. There are 23 million blogs in the world, according to the blogging monitorTechnorati.com. This is a tiny proportion of the hundreds of millions, if not billions, of people who have access to the internet, even if all those 23m blogs are active, which they aren't.This is partly because most people do not know how genuinely easy it is to set up and run a blog these days. I tried an experiment over the weekend with people who had never tried it and they had one up and running within five minutes, which included correcting some mistakes. It would take barely two minutes if you gave a little thought in advance to what you would like your blog to be called and what nickname you might adopt for it, making sure that you do not choose obvious ones that might already be taken.There are heaps of websites on the internet offering free blogs. One of the easiest isBlogger.com- now owned by Google - which guides you through three easy stages. The first page asks you to type in four things: a user name and password you will use for future visits, your email address, plus a name for use as a signature for your blog. The second page requires a title for your blog and an address to be used to link to it. After typing in some letters that are generated randomly on the screen to repel spammers, you move to the third screen, where you choose from a number of templates. Tick one box, press continue and your blog has been created in under five minutes.If you want to blog straight away, put a headline in the headline box, type your comment in the text box below and press "Publish", though you can review it first to see what it looks like. That is all you need. But if you want to insert hypertext links (ie words in blue that link to other blogs or websites) then highlight a word you want to establish a link to - say the Guardian - and then press the link button, which opens a small window into which you can type "guardian.co.uk". Hey presto, you have created a hypertext link to a site without knowing anything about authoring software. Photographs can be uploaded by pressing another button, enabling you to browse through your desktop until you find the right image.Why do it? If you don't want your blog to be seen by others you can always use it as a private diary or research aid. I have a number of blogs on the go, devoted to projects I am working on where I can keep photos, useful web links and text that I write from time to time. But the real fun comes when other people read what you have to say and make comments or link to your site. Some people put video footage or audio files on their blogs. It would be possible to run a small television or radio station from a blog if you could attract an audience. The way blogs work is well illustrated by Sir Tim, who appears to have written his first one without any proper publicity. Within a few days it was picked up by a blogger in another country (who may have put Sir Tim's name into a search engine). He, or she, put it on their blog where it was picked up by someone else and it was soon whirling around the blogosphere. Any one can do it with a few minutes' practice - though if you want to get talked about quickly it helps to have a name as celebrated as Sir Tim Berners-Lee.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Is it possible for internet service providers to act not only as portals but also as guardians of these portals? In other words, instead of the somewhat stressful, random, and constantly challenged efforts at security made by individual PC users, ISPs would be totally responsible for the security of their customers while accessing the internet. Alex WardIt is possible for ISPs to work as gatekeepers or even provide what the IT industry calls remote desktop management, but it could be expensive and risky. Many ISPs, including BT, Telewest, NTL and Tiscali already offer spam and virus filtering (though this may involve downloading a free anti-virus package). However, there is a grey area between obvious spam and legitimate mass mailings, such as newsletters, where blocking can cause problems. In the US, for example, AOL once blocked some acceptance letters sent to prospective students by Harvard University. Also, while it is possible to strip out well known virus attachments, there are always new ones appearing, and new ways of hiding malware.Simple filtering is cheap and reduces the problem, but still requires users to run their own security systems and remain vigilant. Being totally responsible for a "guaranteed clean" service is much more difficult, much more expensive, and is bound to lead to arguments about "false positives" when legitimate emails and files are blocked. Offering remote desktop management is even harder because viruses and other malware can come from "drive by" installations from websites, and from thumb drives, CDs and other sources not under the ISP's control. However, managed services are becoming more common in the business market, and could appeal to home PC users willing to put up with the restrictions and pay the price.
I have just purchased a new Sony Cyber-shot T7 digital camera and am delighted with everything except the battery life. Fully charged, it lasts for only about 70 or 80 minutes. Simon DaleSadly, battery life seems to be a problem with this ultra-compact camera. A review on the Pocket-lint website says: "The drain on the battery is unbelievable. We were given a full charged battery and within an hour of use (and not really using the flash) we were already running low on juice".What makes it worse is that Sony's website touts its invention of a special Real Imaging Processor with "advanced power management capabilities that work in tandem with Sony's rechargeable InfoLithium batteries to dramatically reduce the camera's power consumption." The T7 uses a proprietary Sony NP-FE1 InfoLithium battery, so when you run out of power, you can't just pick up a couple of AA or AAA cells from the nearest newsagent. If you decide to stick with it, your best option is probably to buy another rechargeable NP-FE1 as a spare.
Is there any way I can print out all the website addresses that I have in my Favourites list? I want to keep a record of sites I do not visit at all often. Ronnie BakerInternet Explorer lets you export all your links to a web page stored on your hard drive, so you can print that. Go to the File menu and choose Import and Export to run the wizard. Select Export Favorites, then Favorites, then Export to a File or Address, clicking Next each time. You can then save your favourites as, say, bookmarks.htm, and click Finish. Now double-click the bookmarks. htm file to open it in Internet Explorer, go to the File menu, and select Print. Finally, click the tab marked Options and tick the box that says: Print table of links.One idea is to use the bookmarks.htm file as your browser home page (the setting is under Tools|Internet Options) so you get a full page of links each time you open a browser. Alternatively, put bookmarks.htm on your desktop so you can open it quickly.
Do you have any recommendations for a better disk defrag tool than the one supplied with Windows XP? However many times I run defrag, it still leaves fragmented files. Tony MackieThe Disk Defragmenter in XP (in the System Tools folder) is as good as it needs to be. However, it is a somewhat limited version of Executive Software's Diskeeper, which gives you the chance to buy what is in effect an upgrade. You may find that what Disk Defragmenter shows as free space isn't really. When XP's NTFS (New Technology File System) installs its master file table, it grabs 12.5% of your hard drive for future expansion. This is usually called the "MFT Zone". If you fill the drive, NTFS will use this space to store your data, but when it needs more space for its index, it will have to store it somewhere else. A fragmented MFT can reduce performance, and Disk Defragmenter may not be able to defrag it. Moral: try to keep 10% of your drive space free.Update:Dave English, a software and systems engineer adds that "the XP command line 'defrag -a -v c:' will report the number of MFT fragments. Apparently it can get it itself down to two." He uses a free SysInternals program called Contig to defragment individual large files, and says: "Apparently its PageDefrag will defragment system files such as the registry at boot time." Seehttp://www.sysinternals.com/FileAndDiskUtilities.html.
An icon called matcli appeared out of the blue on my toolbar. Unfortunately, I cannot delete it. What it is? Brian AllisonMatcli is the Motive Assistant Command Line Interface, which is part of a system thatMotivesells to broadband providers, printer and peripheral suppliers, as a way of improving online support. It collects information about your system and writes it to a log file. BT, Telewest Blueyonder and HP appear to be users. You could remove Matcli by using the Add or Remove Programs utility in Windows to uninstall the help package. However, this may make it harder to get help when you need it.
Is it safe to use BitTorrent? A while ago I used the KaZaA program and ended up with dodgy Trojans and viruses. Bobby OnionIt is never wise to assume anything is 100% safe, but the architecture of BitTorrent means it is dramatically safer than KaZaA (seewww.joestewart.org/p2p.htmlfor an account of how it works). Also, BitTorrent programs don't contain KaZaA-style adware. However, bear in mind that it is not anonymous. Someone in Hong Kong has been convicted of copyright infringement for distributing three Hollywood blockbusters using BitTorrent.
Does anybody know where the word "spam" actually comes from? Jack LyonsSpam's use for what we should call UCE (unsolicited commercial email) derives from luncheon meat via the repetition in a Monty Python sketch. There's a good accounthere
No more spam. No more "phishing" bank scams. News, pictures and short clips sent seamlessly to your phone ... or your fridge. Video conferencing that works first time, no hassles. Free, stereo-quality phone calls anywhere in the world. No, it's not a utopian ideal, it's the internet that some people will begin to experience in the next 12 months.Unknown to virtually everyone except IT engineers, the internet is being upgraded to a system called IPv6 (for Internet Protocol version 6). Just as you upgrade your mobile phone, computer or any modern appliance, the internet is undergoing a vast, gradual upgrade that will transform how it works and the way we interact with it.The change could be compared with that from analogue to digital TV. Like that shift, the benefits are obvious to those involved, but people will have to buy new equipment and the network's infrastructure will in some cases need a virtual rebuild. It will also, in some places, create incompatibilities between old and new.But the shift to IPv6 is largely seen as inevitable, and big companies including Microsoft and BT have already made the move. Ironically, the US, where the internet was developed, will be among the last countries to move over as it has so much invested in the old system.Communication over the internet works by breaking up information - an email, web page, picture, or even voice call - into small chunks, called packets. Using a combined method called TCP/IP (for Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol), these packets are sent by myriad routes from one computer in the world to another somewhere else.Ability to expandEach packet carries an electronic label that explains what it is and where it wants to get to. Non-terminating computers that handle the packets try to send them on to the terminating machine. There, the information is reassembled using the rest of the header information. The fact that it doesn't matter what route the packet took from one computer to another explains its incredible ability to expand, because (in theory, at least) no route is more important than any other, so you can add more as you like.For years, TCP/IP has been stuck on version 4 which while not perfect (you can't trace where packets originated because their headers can be "spoofed"), does work, and is easy to implement.But IPv4, as it is known, is becoming outdated. An updated version, IPv6, provides solutions to many of the problems that have cropped up.All IPv6 effectively does is change the format of the electronic label on each packet. But doing so has enormous consequences.The first is to allow the internet to potentially expand virtually to infinity. Here's why. Everything connected to the internet needs its own numerical address so the packets know where to go. IPv4 offers a maximum of just over 4 billion such addresses. That could never cope with the ambitious plans to connect not just every phone, TV and computer in the world to the internet, but also things such as kettles and fridges. IPv6 solves this by providing not 4bn addresses but more than three hundred billion billion billion billion (actually, 3.4 x 10^38, or 2^128).IPv6 will also make the entire internet more secure by including a check on every single packet sent. The packet's receiver will know its origin and that it wasn't tampered with on the way. Fears about online security, which still stop many people from buying online, will be squashed.Visible scamsSuch precision will also make life harder for online criminals. Scams will become far more visible and reveal spam's origin - making it easier to track down offenders.This tighter connection between packet and computer also makes the internet far more efficient, and allows for an "always-on" connection for mobile devices - vital for new 3G mobile phones. Suddenly, the "internet on your phone" becomes a practical reality rather than a futile disappointment.Video conferencing and internet phone calls will become several orders more reliable and hence of far better quality. Peer-to-peer sharing networks, which big media companies are building so you can download music and films direct to your living room, will become faster and more reliable. You will no longer need to walk to the local video store - just click and play.IPv6 also helps new devices automatically configure themselves, so connecting new things to the internet will simply become a matter of sticking a wire into a socket.Yet the bad news is that, despite being invented 10 years ago, IPv6 remains a poor cousin to the old IPv4.This is where the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann) comes in. At its recent meeting in Vancouver, the organisation, which acts as an overseer and organiser of all "technical" parts of the internet, announced that IPv6 would soon be introduced into the internet's "root" servers, so IPv6-only communication at the highest level of the internet was now possible.Psychological impactIPv6 expert Suzanne Woolf called it a big step forward. It has certainly had a huge psychological impact as many companies were previously running combined IPv4 and IPv6 systems, providing little impetus to move to IPv6. Add official governmental support from the European Community, Japan and Korea, and the next generation network is finally on its way.But it isn't without potential pitfalls. Just as you can't watch digital TV on a purely analogue TV, an IPv4 network can't handle "pure" IPv6 packets; so there must be compromise and workarounds, and they all cost money. One internal report has said the move to IPv6 will cost the US government anywhere from $25bn to $75bn over the next three years, bringing visions of a terrifying boondoggle to compare with the Y2K "millennium bug" panic. But those costs are tiny compared with the billions spent in business transactions across the internet each day.These sudden shifts are thanks in part to Icann sorting out its own problems. At its summit in Tunis last month, the world's governments gave the non-profit organisation their full backing, giving it a huge mandate to implement change.Vint Cerf, who chairs Icann and is also the co-inventor of the TCP/IP system, said that Icann "has a pretty modest role in the daily operation and ultimate operation of the internet" and that "99% of the internet is in private hands". But he accepted that it "has a pretty important role" in influencing what happens in the internet's domain name system.It's a busy road ahead, but we are all going to benefit.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"Starting in 2006, I'll be putting together a nonprofitCenter for Citizen Media. The goals are to study, encourage and help enable the emergent grassroots media sphere, with a major focus on citizen journalism," writesDan Gillmor."Here on the Pacific Rim, where I live, the center will collaborate with the University of California, Berkeley's Graduate School of Journalism. As an I.F. Stone Teaching Fellow, I'll do a class next fall, and my principal physical office will be at Berkeley as well. Our Atlantic-facing partner is the Berkman Center for Internet &amp; Society at Harvard University Law School, where I'll be a Research Fellow. I'll visit there regularly -- at least once a month -- to work with other fellows, faculty and students."It's not clear what, if anything, happens to Gillmor'sBayosphere, a Bay-area citizen journalism site.
There is a hole in the middle of government. For the third time in five years, the government is looking for a new computer chief. The current chief information officer, Ian Watmore, was last week promoted to run the prime minister's delivery unit, one of a battery of Downing Street agencies set up to reform public services.Watmore takes up his new post on January 9. The move, welcomed by the industry trade body Intellect, is a sign that Tony Blair is serious about shaking up the machinery of government through the use of IT. However, it is also the latest twist in a decade-long Whitehall saga in which the role of government's central IT department has vacillated. More change is in store.Watmore, 47, has run the e-government unit, part of the Cabinet Office, for 15 months. The job carried with it responsibility for meeting the e-government target - getting all 600-odd public services "e-enabled" by December 31 - as well as setting technical standards and running websites such as the Directgov portal.Watmore also wrote a post-2005 strategy for reforming government with the help of IT, setting out aims for efficient, joined-up services centred on citizens rather than government agencies. It was published in November. Watmore also launched a crusade to build up an esprit de corps among 50,000 public sector IT staff, the civil service's largest professional group.At Number 10, Watmore expects to have more clout to put his strategy into action. He will have the direct ear of Blair, for whom he is to act as "key adviser on delivery". He will also supervise his successor, who seems destined for a smaller, more technical role.The Cabinet Office, founded in 1916 as the nerve centre of Whitehall, took on IT responsibilities in the mid-1990s. Michael Heseltine, then deputy prime minister, created a central IT unit to get a grip on government computer projects. In November 1996, it published an e-government programme, Government Direct, which led to public services appearing on the web.After the 1997 Labour victory, political enthusiasm switched to the emerging e-commerce boom. Peter Mandelson, as trade and industry secretary, borrowed the US idea of an "e-envoy". The first incumbent, a former Downing Street high flyer, Alex Allan, had three tasks: to give every Briton access to the internet, make Britain the world's most competitive place for e-commerce, and put government services online.Allan lasted less than a year before he was replaced by Andrew Pinder, an IT professional with experience in government and big business. He built up a strong "delivery team" but lacked top level political support, especially at the Cabinet Office where ministers saw IT as a political quagmire. At the end of 2003, ministers announced that two streams of the "e" programme had been achieved and that the final one, e-government, would be run by a new government chief information officer.Watmore was recruited in 2004 from consultants Accenture, where he had been UK managing director. He was one of a succession of high-flying chief information officers lured from the private sector at salaries above the civil service norm.Watmore, a softly spoken Arsenal and Pink Floyd fan, is no techie. "Details aren't his strong point," says one colleague from the old school of government IT. However, he is fluent in the language of transforming government in the way that banks, bookshops and airlines have been transformed through IT. Whether he succeeds in making that happen will depend largely on the continued patronage of Blair, and Blair's successor.The new chief information officer, meanwhile, can expect to be landed with some tricky unfinished tasks. One is to standardise the government's "back office" technology. Another is to rationalise his own office further. The changes will include the relocation of 30 of the 200 staff from Westminster to Lancashire.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
JanuaryApple Computer launches the screenless USB-based iPod shuffle. Rivals laugh derisively; buyers don't. By mid-year it is the best-selling Flash MP3 player. The website Think Secret leaks Apple's plans for the screenless, keyboard-less Mac mini. Apple doesn't laugh; it launches a lawsuit to sue the site into oblivion.Microsoft beta-launches its anti-spyware package, the result of the acquisition of Giant Software. Rivals worry that users won't remove it from their machines. "Web 2.0" gains currency, though nobody's sure what it means.FebruaryGoogle introduces Google Maps. Now people realise what Web 2.0 is: Ajaxing (downloading JavaScript code to make online applications behave more like desktop applications). A craze starts for web "mashups" combining data from different sources. World of Warcraft, Blizzard's massively multiplayer online game, launches in Europe. It has more than 1.5 million subscribers in China alone. Carly Fiorina, HP's chief executive, is demerged from her job. Jef Raskin, known to some as father of the Mac, dies aged 61.MarchYahoo buys Flickr, the photo-sharing site. Google launches Google Desktop Search. Nintendo launches the ugly but innovative DS handheld console in the UK, selling 87,000 units in two days. Microsoft buys Groove Networks, bringing Lotus Notes creator Ray Ozzie in as chief technologist; fears that he will impose Notes on Microsoft prove unfounded.AprilGuardian Unlimited wins a Webby Award. PC manufacturers start shipping machines with dual-core Intel processors. Adobe buys rival Macromedia for $3.4bn. The sale completes in December; it would have been faster if the lawyers had skipped the Flash intro. British developer Elixir Studios - creator of Republic: The Revolution - closes.MayLabour ditches the post of e-commerce minister. Few notice. The E3 games trade show in Los Angeles sees the unveiling of the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and Nintendo's Revolution. In the UK, Orange brings Orange TV to your mobile. (That's where you're reading this, right?) Google releases a beta version of its personalised home page and a Web Accelerator - quickly withdrawn.JuneSteve Jobs announces that 10 years after moving to the IBM/Motorola PowerPC chip architecture, Apple Computer will shift to Intel chips. Having for years insisted that PowerPC chips were faster than Intel's, Apple fans eagerly await the transition - so they can get faster machines. Apple also adds a podcast directory to its iTunes Music Store.Google Earth is launched, its satellite images providing insights into North Korean nuclear facilities and other formerly "secret" locations. Sony takes out injunctions to stop unofficial imports of PlayStation Portables (PSPs) to Europe. US Supreme Court rules against Grokster, the file-sharing company; file-sharing continues, except on Grokster. Microchip inventor Jack Kilby dies, aged 81.JulyLondon bomb coverage led by pictures taken with cameraphones.Microsoft says the next version of Windows will be called Vista. It also launches a beta version of Internet Explorer 7, with tabbed windows, print formatting and support for web feeds - as found for ages on Mozilla, Firefox and Opera - proving that innovation is alive, well and working under an assumed identity in Redmond. Hot Coffee, a pornographic mini-game hidden in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, provokes an outpouring of rhetoric. German teenager Sven Jaschan, author of the Netsky and Sasser viruses, is sentenced to 30 hours of community service - slightly less than the public hanging some computer admins wanted. Microsoft launches its Virtual Earth site, based on satellite images. The photos are 10 years old.AugustThe Zotob worm hits a few companies using unpatched versions of Windows 2000 and XP SP1. These include media organisations such as CNN, ABC and the New York Times, so the story spreads further than the worm.Google launches Google Desktop with a sidebar, and Google Talk. Technorati reveals a new blog is born every second, though not how quickly they fall into desuetude.SeptemberSony finally launches the PSP in Europe, nine months after Japan and six after the scheduled UK launch. More than 6m have now sold worldwide. Apple announces the iPod mini is fini, replacing it with the Flash-based iPod nano. Millions are sold, but some users complain of easily scratched or broken screens, prompting a limited exchange scheme and unlimited business for casing and anti-scratch unguent vendors.Larry Ellison's Oracle buys rival Siebel for $5.8bn, following his $10.5bn takeover of Peoplesoft in January. Analysts await an Oracle bid for Oracle. Google launches Google Blog Search (gosh - it's a beta) and eBay buys Skype for $2.6bn (&pound;1.4bn). The Guardian switches to the Berliner format: Technology Guardian replaces Online.OctoberApple decides the old iPod looks odd and launches a version that plays video.Government and industry launch Get Safe Online, in the vain hope that people will remove Trojans and viruses from home computers. Oracle buys Innobase, a small Swedish company that provides the underpinnings of MySQL - the powerful free open source database that rivals Oracle. A Windows developer at SysInternals blogs his discovery of a "rootkit" installed by a Sony Music CD.NovemberMicrosoft pre-announces Windows Live and Office Live websites with Ajax-based interfaces. Nobody understands Bill Gates's presentation, so memos about the importance of Live by Gates and Ray Ozzie are leaked. Those, people understand. Yahoo launches Yahoo Maps. Google launches Google Base. Gosh, it's a beta.A 13-year-old Chinese boy dies after jumping from a window re-enacting a scene from World of Warcraft, and a man dies after playing the game for days without a break. America's Entertainment Software Association publishes research saying there is no evidence violent games adversely affect youngsters.MySQL's chief says the InnoDB engine could be replaced if necessary. But he hopes it isn't. And that Oracle doesn't have patents on it. Or file structure. Or...Mozilla releases Version 1.5 of the Firefox browser. In the year since version 1.0, its market share has peaked at just under 9%. Supporters use graphs with false origins to show that with only 85%+ of the market, Internet Explorer is finished.Sony denies then admits including a hacker-style "rootkit" on some CDs it sold in the US. Sony says no ordinary person knows what a rootkit is, and if they do, they shouldn't.Nicholas Negroponte shows a prototype of the wind-up $100 laptop at the World Summit on the Information Society in Tunis. The US is allowed to keep effective charge of the internet.DecemberRicky Gervais's weekly podcast, available only through the Guardian Unlimited website, quickly becomes the top podcast in the US and in the UK, where it has 180,000 downloads.Wikipedia's authority is questioned following "joke" insertions and edits. Co-founder Jimmy Wales is assassinated, it says here.. oh, no, he's fine.A British student comes close to making $1m from his "Million Dollar Home Page" where every pixel is for sale.The Read/Write Web blog declares Web 2.0 "is dead." Or just purchased.Microsoft launches the Xbox 360 in Europe. Shops are besieged and it sells out immediately. In Japan, however, gamers are besieged by shops where two thirds of Xbox 360s remain unsold.Sony releases an "uninstaller" for its CD rootkit. It makes the problem worse by leaving holes hackers can exploit - rather like leaving a chimney for a Bad Santa to come down. Happy Christmas!&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Main problem with the Xbox 360 (outside Japan) is finding one to buy. Result: Xbox tracking pages on sites likeBensbargains. This says:Welcome to the BensBargains.net Xbox 360 Tracker. This page automatically checks the listed merchants on a regular basis to see whether or not they have Xbox 360 Console Systems and Bundles in stock. Read our User Comments.Get automatic notifications of when the Xbox 360 comes in-stock via the RSS Feed, which will display when an Xbox 360 System or Bundle is in-stock. By popular request, we have a Basic RSS Feed that does NOT update if there is nothing in stock (no time stamp).Sean Alexander explains how to automate the approach inHowTo: Score an Xbox 360 online.
The last technology section of the year takes a look at thebest and worstgames of 2005. Most of them have already been on here, but there are some interesting choices for worst. I'd totally forgot about NARC, for example. Elsewhere, Aleks hasanother lookat the Xbox 360's huge power consumption. And there is acautionary taleabout getting RSI when playing on consoles - it's especially relevant for anyone addicted to Mario Kart DS.
Today's print section hasour own review of the year, written by a cast of thousands (well, more than two). We've tried to give it our own spin, so here are a few examples....Microsoft beta-launches its anti-spyware package, the result of the acquisition of Giant Software. Rivals worry that users won't remove it from their machines.April: Adobe buys rival Macromedia for $3.4bn. The sale completes in December; it would have been faster if the lawyers had skipped the Flash intro.Steve Jobs announces that 10 years after moving to the IBM/Motorola PowerPC chip architecture, Apple Computer will shift to Intel chips. Having for years insisted that PowerPC chips were faster than Intel's, Apple fans eagerly await the transition - so they can get faster machines.Larry Ellison's Oracle buys rival Siebel for $5.8bn, following his $10.5bn takeover of Peoplesoft in January. Analysts await an Oracle bid for Oracle.Sony denies then admits including a hacker-style "rootkit" on some CDs it sold in the US. Sony says no ordinary person knows what a rootkit is, and if they do, they shouldn't.Wikipedia's authority is questioned following "joke" insertions and edits. Co-founder Jimmy Wales is assassinated, it says here.. oh, no, he's fine.But inevitably, we've missed things out - some of them had to be cut because print is limited for reasons of space, unlike the web where you can just drone on and on and.. ahem.Anyway, what we'd like to know is: what events did we miss out? And, our challenge to you - rather like the closing credits ofWhose Line Is It Anyway- is to give them in the same style as those above. Let the games begin!
This week's Technology section- the print stuff - is now online too. We've looked at theGoogle-AOL deal, how totake better pictures with a digital camera without flash, themarch of IPv6, the best and worst games of the year, howquickly you can set up your own blog, thehole at the centre of government IT, theproblem with the NHS's central recordsconcept, and also.. as you'll see in another post.. our very ownreview of the year.
If you have an email address ending in @aol.com, Google has put a price on your head. You are worth $769.23 (&pound;437). Unfortunately, you will not be able to use it to pay your credit card bill. That's because Google, best known for running the world's most popular search engine, put that valuation on AOL's 26 million users worldwide on Tuesday by buying a 5% stake in the company from Time-Warner for $1bn (&pound;568m), suggesting an overall price tag of $20bn. (By contrast, Yahoo's $30m purchase last week of the social tagging site Delicious valued it at about $100 per user.)The AOL valuations, however, are a long way down from the $182bn merger of AOL and Time-Warner in January 2000. Then, the internet provider had 20 million users and AOL had a notional value of $100bn (being 55% of the merged company); that's about $5,000 per aol.com address.Although it is a depreciating asset - AOL had the two biggest names online, Google and Microsoft, circling it - the final sale was, by all accounts, a knife-edge process in which the company from Mountain View barely managed to edge out the Redmond-based rival. According to a report in the New York Times, AOL executives walked back and forth between conference rooms at the Time-Warner centre in New York, each room occupied by teams from Microsoft and from Google.The reasons for the separation were those of the poker room, of not giving away one's strategy. But there is little love lost between Microsoft and Google. In November 2004, a senior Microsoft engineer, Mark Lucovsky, had a meeting with Steve Ballmer, the corporation's chief executive, to reveal he was leaving to join Google. At this, Lucovsky says in court documents, Ballmer launched into an expletive-filled rant at Eric Schmidt, his opposite number at Google, threw a chair across the office, and said: "I'm going to fucking bury that guy. I have done it before, and I will do it again. I'm going to fucking kill Google." (http://battellemedia.com/archives/001835.php)Favoured statusBallmer's reaction, on being challenged on this by journalists subsequently? "I've never thrown a chair in my life." And the threats to Google?" Did I say I wanted to compete with Google? I don't know what words ..." he said in September.In truth, few people who have seen the video of Ballmer leaping onto a stage and screaming "Developers! Developers! Developers!" to an audience of cheering Microsoft developers would have much trouble imagining him becoming very excited if a favoured employee was leaving for the rival that, more than any, seems to have evaded Microsoft's attempts to rein it in.But set Microsoft's reaction aside for a moment. The news of Google's purchase was first refracted through the lens of bloggers and other online commentators, the people who are Google's daily users. And their reaction could be generally summed up as horror, first, that Google would involve itself in - no, buy - part of something as olde worlde as an ISP, especially the reviled (because terminally uncool) AOL; and that as part of the deal, as the description went, "Google will also provide technical assistance so AOL can create web pages that will appear more prominently in the search results list" and that "Google will offer promotion to AOL in ways it has never done for another company" (according to two unnamed executives close to the deal). In other words, AOL content gets favoured status in Google results."Yow. Don't jump the shark, Google," commented John Battelle, author of Search and a keen observer of the battle for dominance online between the top triumvirate of search engines - Google, Microsoft and Yahoo. His remark was echoed with yelps around the blogosphere as those who thought that Google was simply a company that offered search, whose engineers decided what it should do, where the chef decided what was on the menu, realised it had done something they could not understand.Has Google really "jumped the shark"? The phrase originally described TV shows that began running plots or stories far removed from their roots, signalling inevitable decline - epitomised by the king of biker cool, the Fonz from Happy Days, donning waterskis to jump a shark. Now, it's applied to any organisation that is past its best.And why else would the coolest search engine team up with the most uncool of ISPs, one which had dragged down Time-Warner so far in the past five years that at one point, some analysts thought it had a negative value to the merged group?But closer examination of the deal shows that Google has not lost its collective senses. Instead, to the company's maxim "Don't be evil" (coined by founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page), chief executive Schmidt has, one could surmise, added the proviso "And don't get beaten into the dust by Microsoft". Put simply, the acquisition of the stake in AOL, a company that is haemorrhaging users and value, was done to prevent Microsoft crushing Google as it did Netscape."When it came to crunch time to make a deal, &#91;Schmidt&#93; knew that he had to bring home a Google victory," explained Alan Meckler of Jupiter Research. "He knew that Google could not allow a Microsoft-AOL alliance and figured out a way to beat Microsoft. He knew that a Microsoft victory would jumpstart Microsoft's efforts at selling AdWords. He was willing to bend and allow AOL certain advertising placement advantages on Google in order to secure the deal."And the deal was essential to Google's survival because AOL's users are a prime source of its revenue and profits. Google remains the search engine underlying AOL, a partnership that generated $420m of advertising revenue for Google in the first nine months of 2005, about 10% of total income, and its biggest single source of revenue.But Google sees AOL purely as a vehicle for adverts whose users are reliably stuck in the paradigm of looking at adverts and obeying imprecations to buy. They are not typical of a growing internet where the most noise and the biggest advances come from those who find the old methods of commerce - where a big corporation instructs people what to be interested in and to buy - outdated and outmoded.Had Microsoft won, Google would have had to scramble around for a major new source of income on an internet where such things are increasingly rare. It's exactly the sort of tactic used by Microsoft on Netscape to "cut off its air supply", except that this would have been a straightforward commercial deal. In the 1990s, Microsoft leant ilegally on PC makers not to bundle in the Netscape browser, on pain of losing Windows licences (which would have made the PCs unsaleable).Indeed, for a company reliant on searching and advertising, as Google is, there is little to compare with AOL. According to comScore Networks, Time Warner's online destinations - including AOL and other sites - had 117 million unique visitors in October, second only to Yahoo's 124 million. Microsoft's MSN network had 115 million; Google, 90 million. Where would Google find another 117 million potential customers online?Thus the purchase resembles a chess move - defending the queen with a pawn, as Battelle puts it. Although $1bn is a lot of money, Google still has a $6bn cash pile.The decision ends a battle that had been going on, ever so quietly but intensely, since January. This has been the year, as never before, in which the search engine companies have been gearing up for the way the net will work in future. In the mid-1990s, the battle was all about which method of accessing the web - particularly, whose browser, and using whose standards - would dominate. That was answered when Microsoft finally crushed Netscape (whose remnants were bought, ironically, by AOL for $9bn of AOL stock in March 1999).Stealing usersThis year has been a preparation for a time when the browser is taken for granted, and so is the internet. The user's loyalty is now the battleground.Brian Haven of Forrester Research argues however that Google and Microsoft face bigger problems ahead - and the cause is small-fry search sites. "The success of smaller search engines has reduced the combined share of the top four search engines from 88% in 2004 to 83% in 2005," Haven says. "The competitiveness will only grow as search engines are forced to steal users from the competition, rather than trying to attract the dwindling pool of new &#91;internet&#93; searchers. To grow search engine loyalty, companies need to innovate with new products."This, of course, is what they are doing. This year has seen Google, Microsoft and Yahoo introduce mapping and satellite picturing services, upgraded mail services, web feeds for searches, and in the case of Microsoft and Google, editable news pages where the user can change what stories or sites appear.Joe Wilcox, an analyst at Jupiter Research, observed: "In the long term, I think Google will have given up more than gained by the AOL deal. Google has given a great opportunity for rivals to mount a marketing counter-strike. Consider the dynamics of the AOL deal. Google pays AOL $1bn and gives AOL preferred placement on search results. If I were Microsoft and Yahoo! sales folks, I would position this as Google "paying" a major customer to stay one. Then there is the exclusive deal that gives AOL special treatment over "all" other customers. If I were Microsoft or Yahoo!, I would take the moral high ground, emphasising that they will treat all searches the same."It could mean a marketing war. But for Google, it means a future assured, for now.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Over the past 12 months, the MP3-playing music phone has gone mainstream with high-profile launches such as the W800i Walkman from Sony Ericsson and the ROKR iTunes handset from Motorola. Yet no matter how good the sound and how clever the integration of handset features, all models have been compromised by a serious lack of storage.So there is a quite a buzz surrounding the launch of the Samsung SGH-i300 from O2, the first mobile phone for Europe to include a hard disk. Should Apple, Creative and the other MP3 manufacturers be worried?Well, the SGH-i300, retailing at &pound;49.99, is an impressive phone. It sports an old-style candy bar design - a little like the original Orange SPVs - features a 262,000 colour, 240x320 pixel screen and runs using Windows Mobile 2003 second edition which means it has pocket versions of applications such as Word and Outlook Express. The phone's hard disk has a three gigabyte capacity, which might not sound generous but is six times more storage than most of the SGH-i300's rivals.Porting music, or any other kind of files on to the phone, is not straightforward. There is no standard USB socket so the files have to be transferred either via Samsung's proprietary connector or through the docking station that comes with phone. The transfer is fairly simple as the hard disk appears as an icon in Windows, enabling users to drag and drop files on to it.The SGH-i300 works well as a music phone but is clearly no iPod. The jog shuttle, sited just under the screen, enables users to navigate the tracks reasonably quickly, but overall the interface has a long way to travel before it rivals standalone music devices. Sound quality is good rather than great; the i300's speakers are no match for those on recent Sharp and Motorola phones. The phone is compatible with MP3, WMA, AAC+ and AAC files and features Bluetooth and 1.3 megapixel camera, but has no Wi-Fi or 3G facilities.Where the phone really loses out to standalone music players is its battery life. The standard battery runs for a paltry five hours. Fortunately, Samsung has packed a second, larger battery with a life of almost 10 hours, but it will need twice this capacity to truly rival the iPod phones.The SGH-i300 is not the last word in music phones, and Steve Jobs probably won't be losing too much sleep over hard disk phones just yet.But with Hitachi promising 20GB drives for mobiles for this time next year, he would be well advised to keep an eye on the next generation of mobiles.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Parents are on the horns of a dilemma when it comes to giving children mobile phones, especially in light of research which suggests that long-term use of mobiles by young children could damage their health.A potential compromise is offered by mTrack, which has just launched i-Kids, a mobile for children aged between seven and 12. It consists of a small device that enables the child to make and receive voice calls. It also includes a GPS (global positioning system) chip that enables a parent to see on a web-based interface where their child is. It is claimed to be accurate to 20 metres.After the device is powered up and given to the child, it then attempts to connect with GPS satellites. Parents can then view the route their child has taken - it displays on a map where the child is at 10-minute intervals - either on a PC or a Wap-endowed mobile. A parent can also ping the device and it will instantly locate the child. The route information is free, though each ping costs 50p. The system also enables the parent to set up a safety zone and if the child strays outside the parameters the parents receive a text message. If the child is in distress, they can ring one of three numbers the parent has preset on the handset or make an emergency call to police.Overall, the device worked as billed even in inner London, where the GPS signal can be flaky. The signal was also picked up when the device was in a bag. The interface is easy to set up and use on a PC, though less technically minded parents might find the Wap version something of a challenge. It costs &pound;49.95 plus &pound;5.23 per month for a two-year contract.mTrack claims that as the phone will only be used rarely, it doesn't really pose any health threats.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Soon after the Xbox 360 launch, I blogged a report I had read on CNet about the console's power consumption. It eats up more than twice as much electricity as the PlayStation 2 and is only outdone by high-definition TV sets, pitched as the ideal output device for Microsoft's "high def" gaming.At full whack the machine uses as much power as the spin cycle on a washing machine, adding up to &pound;18 to the average annual electricity bill. A local games developer also told me his office's circuits keep shorting when their development Xbox 360 kits run concurrently.The responses from readers came thick and fast. Overwhelmingly, I was reminded that power consumption is the least of most people's concerns when it comes to buying audio-visual entertainment. The focus of countless media inches is devoted to graphical capabilities, attention to detail, plot, playability, processor speeds, teraflops and other equally dense obsessions that engulf the bigger-better-faster culture of gaming. Topics such as natural resources are rarely broached, and there's much confusion about how to be green when in thrall to the games culture.Even as a keen recycler, this issue hadn't occurred to me before I happened upon the post at CNet. I gleefully consumed and left things on standby, even playing on a console while doing laundry. But the issue deserves attention. This is Microsoft, after all, and with its knowledge and experience, it should be aware of energy-saving options.But other machines that live under the TV use up their fair amount of fuel and are costly even when not powered up. The PlayStation 2 has an off switch, but is much easier to leave on standby. The notoriously short battery life on the Sony PSP means it has to be juiced up more frequently than rivals. Nintendo is the most energy-efficient console maker, but to paraphrase gamesblog reader GWX, the future of games consoles is the supercomputer. What will it take to feed forthcoming behemoths?There are no games-specific solutions, but at this time of year, it seems appropriate to suggest a modicum of caution to those who will be tearing open their new power-hungry machines. We can only hope next year will bring an attachment for the Solio solar charger that supports most mobile phones, palmtops and MP3 players. The other option is to get clean fuel from an electricity provider, but this isn't possible if you don't own your home.The best that can be done this holiday season is to practise moderation. Unplug your machines or turn them off at the wall. Pester Microsoft for a more energy efficient device. Above all, send us your solutions for greener technology, and we'll have many more happy new years.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A new system developed by The Royal National Institute for Deaf People (RNID) will allow the deaf to use a real-time text message service on their mobile phones. The software, which is similar to the textphone service used by thousands of people around the UK with hearing difficulties, allows deaf users to conduct live conversations by typing into their mobiles.Although the boom in text messaging has handed a lifeline to many deaf people who want to use phones on the move, they are otherwise excluded from most mobile communications. After three years of development, RNID will this week unveil its new Typetalk - and offer it as a free download.Although there are similarities with instant messaging, the RNID service is mediated through an operator to allow deaf people to carry out telephone conversations with hearing counterparts. Guido Gybels, the director of new technologies at RNID, says it will allow deaf people to carry on with their daily lives."It is precisely because the mobile phone is a key part of so many people's lives that this application is critical," he said. "If it helps people operate in society - take calls on the move, enter the world of work - it will be a success."The system will initially be rolled out on phones such as the Nokia 6822 and Sony Ericsson P900, but because it is provided as a Java download, it should be easy to make it compatible with most modern handsets. The software has been in development since 2002, and has been funded mainly through charitable donations."Realistically speaking, it's a fairly small user group," says Gybels. "If you look at our estimates, there are 11,000 to 12,000 textphone users in the UK. But this is really a qualitative issue, not a quantitive one."RNID is calling on network providers to offer the download free of charge - as well as giving deaf customers preferential data transfer rates. Operators have a legal obligation to provide mobile textphone solutions to deaf people in Britain, but the organisation says most networks have failed miserably."Frankly, operators have been ignoring the new Communications Act - apart from Vodafone," Gybels adds. "The other networks have been useless."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Another week, and another website for "social" recommendation of online stories pops up. After Digg and Reddit, there's TailRank (tailrank.com), a "social news recommendation system and collaborative filter". What makes it unlike the other news recommendation systems is that it considers what links are being used, provides custom news by letting each user share the news and blogs they find interesting, and then recommends other items."TailRank allows you to see the world through another person's eyes ... For a political example, two TailRank users (one liberal and one conservative) could easily view each other's perspective," it says hopefully in its FAQ.To do that, you register and can then upload your list of favourite blogs from the web. I failed twice; TailRank gave me the obligatory non-stern error message, saying "Some bad mojo happened. Must be bad sushi. Time for a vacation", which actually takes cutesy a bit too far. I would rather have a proper explanation and some ideas for how to fix the problem.The site does have a potentially serious case of the cutes: "Please give a donation to TailRank so we can keep feeding Santa's little elves which we use to index the blogosphere," says a banner. Please, TailRank, can't you ask for a donation like an adult?The site suffers from having too few users, though the concept shows promise. Social networking has taken off in recent months, but it has been hard to find sites that are not full of technological obsessives (Slashdot, Digg) and instead focus on wider news - preferably without blog and news mixed up and without US bias.When I visited earlier this week, the top "post" was an MSNBC item about Google's Ten Golden Rules of staff retention - a piece of news I thought was old a fortnight ago. Clearly, the site needs more of the "early spotter" users (who see the zeitgeist forming before the rest) if it is to grow to critical mass.But how do you attract them? Ah, there's the rub ...&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The BestSprung: Superb writing, silly tasks (flirt mercilessly, get partner, ski), potential to utterly twist social relationships into a strange husk - all make this it my No 1.Aleks KrotoskiPro Evolution Soccer 5:Breathtaking authenticity and depth. Always something new to discover.Keith StuartWorld of WarcraftA virtual world unsurpassed in beauty, imagination and the ability to kill things. A breathtaking example of what happens when you give talented developers the time they need.Greg HowsonDarwiniaThe future, past and present of videogames in one compulsive bundle. It is a manifesto in gaming flesh and rejuvenated me like nothing else.Kieron GillenGrand Theft Auto Liberty City StoriesBecause it's so much fun to be able to steal cars and create mayhem while on the Tube.Kate BevanResident Evil 4The cleverest zombies are even more satisfying to dispatch once you learn how to kick off their heads and upgrade your weaponry.Steve BoxerAnd the worstNarc"The money spent on creating this drivel was wasted on a product that hopes controversy will be its raison d'etre."AKFifa Road to World Cup"Not only a cut-down game, but the more 'realistic' players have fallen into Uncanny Alley.KGCharlie and the Chocolate Factory"Quite possibly the worst I have played" SB; "At its extreme, this could provide a fertile training ground for wanabe Machiavellis, but in practice it's repetitive and frustrating."AK&#183;See the games writers' top three picks at Gamesblog (blogs.guardian.co.uk/games)&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Free software movement stands for freedomYour OpenOffice article (If this suite's a success ..., December 8) erred in saying I "formalised the concept of open source". I founded the free software movement.The free software movement stands for freedom and community. In 1984 we began developing a free software operating system, GNU, to give users the freedom to share and control their own computers. Most of GNU was in place in 1992; the last major gap was the kernel. Then a kernel, Linux, became free, and filled the gap, forming the GNU/Linux system - basically GNU with Linux added. (The article called it Linux.)The term "open source" was coined in 1998 by part of the free software community that rejected our values. They advocate a "development model", which they claim usually leads to technically superior software. Your article calls that claim a "myth"; true or not, it did not come from me. In the free software movement, we do not say the freedom to cooperate makes software reliable. We say it is an inalienable human right.Richard StallmanPresident, Free Software FoundationKudos for Andrew Brown for pricking a hole in the long-running myth of open source software being intrinsically better than commercially produced applications. This mania reminds me of the True Believers of the 1970s and 1980s who refused to acknowledge what was obvious to everybody else: that the eastern bloc - or the second world in general - wasn't faring very well. But to say anything contrary would have been tantamount to treason.http://kaivilmi.comNot just about taggingI have been working in Yahoo Research Berkeley for four months and have watched as people throughout the company have become more aware of what it means to think about social media (Searching for a fresher taste, December 15) ... It's not only about tagging, social bookmarking, sharing, etc. It's about rethinking the innovation process when handling social technologies.www.zephoria.org/thoughts/Big effect for small changeWhile I agree with James Woodhuysen (Ideal home to save the environment, December 15) that the electric consumption of a kettle or TV on standby represents a small proportion of a household's energy use (and costs), the figures are much more significant when multiplied across all the houses in the country.If, on average, each of the 60 million people in the UK is wasting about 10 watts of electricity by leaving an item on standby, this gives an electrical demand of 600MW. A power station is running just to supply equipment that could be turned off. An overall large effect can be mitigated by a small change in individual behaviour. This can be achieved fairly simply by raising awareness.Rob WilliamsBut will DVD media last?Before Wendy M. Grossman ditches her VHS collection ( Honey, I shrunk the movie collection, December 15), perhaps she should satisfy herself as to the longevity of DVD-R media. I can still play 20-year-old VHS tapes with few problems, whereas some of my data CDRs recorded recently using accepted best practice - top brands, best dye strata, single burn, etc - are unreadable.Data on CD-R longevity appears to give different figures for different CD-R writers and brands of disc. I assume the same applies to DVD-R media. I'm not willing to make multiple copies of everything on various brands in the hope that at least one will be readable in five years' time.Michael AdamsNo line requiredYou can have broadband from the cable companies and therefore broadband telephony without a BT or other line rental. The major drawback to internet telephony is the cost of handsets and the fact that most are corded, especially cheaper ones. As you rightly point out, the quality of the signal can be variable.Patrick Hickey
Flash photography can be horrible. In the hands of an expert who knows how to bounce all that searing bright light in the right direction, it may make an impossible picture workable. In the clumsy grip of the average ham-fisted snap merchant like me, even the smartest of digital cameras can paint human skin a deathly shade of white, turn human eyes red and, for some strange reason, dogs' eyes green.More importantly, flash can also damage precious works of art if shutter-happy tourists hit the magic button too often - which is why many museums ban its use altogether within their walls.The claim is that flash is more damaging than daylight - though proof is surprisingly thin (see the discussion athttp://msgboard.snopes.com).Why do we use flash at all? Because photography is not the same as eyesight. We can see in low-light situations where cameras, dependent upon a physical process to record visual information, are half blind. Flash turns up the optical volume so that whatever lies behind the lens - be it film or a digital sensor - is a little more receptive.So imagine it is a dark winter's day in Rome and I am itching to get three near-impossible shots: the centrepiece of Caravaggio's breathtaking St Matthew trilogy from the church of San Luigi di Francesi; the spookily paganised Madonna del Parto, adored by Roman women for centuries, in the church of Sant' Agostino; and the gorgeous fifth century BC so-called Ludovisi "throne" in the Palazzo Altemps.Using flash in these places is likely to incur the justifiable attentions of a curatorial door dragon. So I didn't. Yet here are the results: not great photos, since I am not a great photographer, but images taken in very low light, without flash, and all three pretty much perfectly exposed, too. How?Fixated by pixelsBy turning to an interesting metric that most people, fixated as they are these days by megapixels, rarely consider. Nowadays it is called ISO, though older film users may know it as ASA. It measures the film "speed" - its sensitivity to light. And while digital cameras may not use film, they most certainly rely on ISO to decide how to take the best photo for you. The bigger the ISO number, the better the film (or camera) works in low light.In the old, analogue days, you used the film suited for the light conditions you were working in. Low light demanded "fast" film, usually ISO 400 or higher; the fastest available would be about ISO 1000. When the sun was bright, you would reach for ISO 64 to avoid the burned-out look of overexposure. Digital cameras mimic this process by automatically turning the sensitivity of their sensors up and down if you shoot without tweaking the ISO. There is probably a setting somewhere on any mid-range digital camera to change it, though you might need the manual to find it.The trouble is that most cameras are limited to 800 ASA at the fast end, and often begin to show "noise" - visible artefacts akin to "grain" in film - when you push them there.Not any longer, though. Fuji is one of the first manufacturers to have spotted the market for cameras that can take decent photos in natural light without flash. The shots you see here come from one of its first cameras to use the technology. Happily, this is not some lumbering semi-professional SLR beast for the enthusiast, but a sub-&pound;250 pocket consumer model, the F11.All you need do to use it in its most basic form is turn the camera to "natural light" mode, and then let it work on the hard part. The F11 can mimic a film speed of up to ISO 1600, which will give you amazing results: indoor scenes of people around candles, for example, with perfect skin tones and, in my case, some extraordinary shots taken in underground excavations lit by nothing but a few light bulbs.Devil in the detailCould you do all this conventionally with film? Yes, but you won't find 1600 ISO stock in the average high street outlet, nor get it developed there quickly and cheaply. Plus, lighting photos shot at these speeds can be a nightmare and since they will be on film, you will have to wait for the prints before you see the results. With digital, you just point, shoot, review, reshoot and tweak as necessary.There are limits to this magic, naturally. Sometimes I find the F11 is just a little too keen to find detail in the murk. It is hard to take genuinely gloomy shots well, at least on automatic. Even at ISO 1600 the shutter speeds are still pretty slow - 1/35th of a second for the Caravaggio shot, which could produce blur from camera shake if you are not careful. A tripod can still be useful; any solid object (a chair back or pillar) for a brace otherwise.On the other hand, the camera is smart enough to chase the most sensible solution it can find. For example, it selected an ISO of 400 for the Ludovisi throne, which, up close on a computer, reveals slightly richer colours than you would expect at ISO 1600, where the detail is getting strained.But these are quibbles. I couldn't even attempt to take such photographs with a film camera, or a normal digital model. With more and more film makers looking for ways to separate themselves from the megapixel morass of me-too models out there, expect smart features like this to be commonplace in the years to come.&#183;David Hewson (www.davidhewson.com) is a novelist and journalist&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Coming cleanIs it possible for internet service providers to act not only as portals but also as guardians of these portals? In other words, instead of the somewhat stressful, random, and constantly challenged efforts at security made by individual PC users, ISPs would be totally responsible for the security of their customers while accessing the internet.Alex WardJack Schofield replies:It is possible for ISPs to work as gatekeepers or even provide what the IT industry calls remote desktop management, but it could be expensive and risky. Many ISPs, including BT, Telewest, NTL and Tiscali already offer spam and virus filtering (though this may involve downloading a free anti-virus package). However, there is a grey area between obvious spam and legitimate mass mailings, such as newsletters, where blocking can cause problems. In the US, for example, AOL once blocked some acceptance letters sent to prospective students by Harvard University. Also, while it is possible to strip out well known virus attachments, there are always new ones appearing, and new ways of hiding malware.Simple filtering is cheap and reduces the problem, but still requires users to run their own security systems and remain vigilant. Being totally responsible for a "guaranteed clean" service is much more difficult, much more expensive, and is bound to lead to arguments about "false positives" when legitimate emails and files are blocked. Offering remote desktop management is even harder because viruses and other malware can come from "drive by" installations from websites, and from thumb drives, CDs and other sources not under the ISP's control. However, managed services are becoming more common in the business market, and could appeal to home PC users willing to put up with the restrictions and pay the price.Flash in the panI have just purchased a new Sony Cyber-shot T7 digital camera and am delighted with everything except the battery life. Fully charged, it lasts for only about 70 or 80 minutes.Simon DaleJS:Sadly, battery life seems to be a problem with this ultra-compact camera, below. A review on the Pocket-lint website says: "The drain on the battery is unbelievable. We were given a full charged battery and within an hour of use (and not really using the flash) we were already running low on juice" (www.pocket-lint.co.uk).What makes it worse is that Sony's website touts its invention of a special Real Imaging Processor with "advanced power management capabilities that work in tandem with Sony's rechargeable InfoLithium batteries to dramatically reduce the camera's power consumption." The T7 uses a proprietary Sony NP-FE1 InfoLithium battery, so when you run out of power, you can't just pick up a couple of AA or AAA cells from the nearest newsagent. If you decide to stick with it, your best option is probably to buy another rechargeable NP-FE1 as a spare.Favorite cutsIs there any way I can print out all the website addresses that I have in my Favourites list? I want to keep a record of sites I do not visit at all often.Ronnie BakerJS:Internet Explorer lets you export all your links to a web page stored on your hard drive, so you can print that. Go to the File menu and choose Import and Export to run the wizard. Select Export Favorites, then Favorites, then Export to a File or Address, clicking Next each time. You can then save your favourites as, say, bookmarks.htm, and click Finish. Now double-click the bookmarks. htm file to open it in Internet Explorer, go to the File menu, and select Print. Finally, click the tab marked Options and tick the box that says: Print table of links.One idea is to use the bookmarks.htm file as your browser home page (the setting is under Tools/Internet Options) so you get a full page of links each time you open a browser. Alternatively, put bookmarks.htm on your desktop so you can open it quickly.Icon invaderAn icon called matcli appeared out of the blue on my toolbar. Unfortunately, I cannot delete it. What it is?Brian AllisonJS:Matcli is the Motive Assistant Command Line Interface, which is part of a system that Motivewww.motive.comsells to broadband providers, printer and peripheral suppliers, as a way of improving online support. It collects information about your system and writes it to a log file. BT, Telewest Blueyonder and HP appear to be users. You could remove Matcli by using the Add or Remove Programs utility in Windows to uninstall the help package. However, this may make it harder to get help when you need it.Spatial awarenessDo you have any recommendations for a better disk defrag tool than the one supplied with Windows XP? However many times I run defrag, it still leaves fragmented files.Tony MackieJS:The Disk Defragmenter in XP (in the System Tools folder) is as good as it needs to be. However, it is a somewhat limited version of Executive Software's Diskeeper, which gives you the chance to buy what is in effect an upgrade. You may find that what Disk Defragmenter shows as free space isn't really. When XP's NTFS (New Technology File System) installs its master file table, it grabs 12.5% of your hard drive for future expansion. This is usually called the "MFT Zone". If you fill the drive, NTFS will use this space to store your data, but when it needs more space for its index, it will have to store it somewhere else. A fragmented MFT can reduce performance, and Disk Defragmenter may not be able to defrag it. Moral: try to keep 10% of your drive space free.BitTorrent hazardsIs it safe to use BitTorrent? A while ago I used the KaZaA program and ended up with dodgy Trojans and viruses.Bobby OnionJS:It is never wise to assume anything is 100% safe, but the architecture of BitTorrent means it is dramatically safer than KaZaA (seewww.joestewart.org/p2p.htmlfor an account of how it works). Also, BitTorrent programs don't contain KaZaA-style adware. However, bear in mind that it is not anonymous. Someone in Hong Kong has been convicted of copyright infringement for distributing three Hollywood blockbusters using BitTorrent.The source of spamDoes anybody know where the word "spam" actually comes from?Jack LyonsJS:Spam's use for what we should call UCE (unsolicited commercial email) derives from luncheon meat via the repetition in a Monty Python sketch. There's a good account atwww.templetons.com/brad/spamterm.htmlBackchat&#183;Last week, Ant Smallwood was looking for a good site where he could compare MP3 players. Tom Hiles suggests Digital Audio Player Review (www.DAPreview.net) as "an absolute goldmine of news, reviews and opinion on MP3 players", though it seems to lack the side-by-side comparison features of, say, Digital Photography Review (www.dpreview.com)&#183;Peter Benlow was having problems saving web pages in Internet Explorer. Andy Dix, commenting on the Ask Jack blog, says: "Your best bet is to forget about IE. Install Firefox and then use an extension (add-on) called Scrapbook which usually makes a perfect copy of any web page. Scrapbook does parse any scripts on the page." Alan Dyson writes: "Rather than saving as .mht files (or trying to achieve the same effect using Firefox, if you can get the add-on to work), I've now started saving web pages as PDF files. You can print to a file using primoPDF as the printer and then use Foxit (or AcroRead) to look at it." Keith McClelland adds that, up to a point, it is also possible to select the page (Ctrl A) and paste it into a Word document or other word processor.
Dr Richard Fitton cares about the quality of the information he holds about his patients. So do they - some of them were formerly under the care of the late mass murderer Harold Shipman. Fitton has just audited what is in his medical records. The results may be a shock to the &pound;6bn effort to computerise the NHS in England.Fitton's practice, in Glossopdale, Greater Manchester, was one of the first in the country to allow patients to view their own health records on screen. He has now gone further and encouraged people to check their records at home. In an audit called the Joy Project, after a former patient, patients were sent copies of their records and asked to underline parts they thought were inaccurate and items they wouldn't want to go on to the new shared electronic care records service being set up by the NHS.Although Fitton's sample was small, the patients taking part were distributed evenly in age and sex. Of 50 who agreed to take part, 31 returned records. Of these, 19 found nothing wrong. However, 10 found one or more errors, mostly transcribing mistakes or poorly captured data.Some errors were relatively minor: an 11-year-old's date of birth was out by a year, probably because it was transcribed wrongly when the baby was registered. Other patients disagreed with diagnoses of asthma and acne. More seriously, a patient questioned a note about an attempted drug overdose, saying the incident took place 25 years ago.Five of the 31 identified parts of their notes they wouldn't want shared across the national system. A 17-year-old girl didn't want a request for contraception recorded; a woman felt the same way about a note about dietary advice. Another patient was worried about a note about asthma screening, others about records of mental disorders and pregnancy terminations.From this (admittedly limited) survey, Fitton estimates that 17 million people in England would challenge their records if they saw them. Of course, the patients in his audit may understandably have been more disposed than the general population to take an interest, and more inclined to return their records if they had something to challenge than if everything was in order.Even so, this suggests that there is a great deal of dodgy information in the NHS medical records that is now being plugged into the new care records "spine". And records held by GPs may be the best of the bunch. GPs record data on PCs at the "point of care", unlike their hospital colleagues, who tend to enter it later from handwritten notes. Reports from hospitals trying to migrate their old records on to new systems suggest that even basic data such as patients, names and NHS numbers is riddled with errors.Over the years, patient administration systems - basic systems that record patients' comings and goings - have been modified in all sorts of idiosyncratic ways, with ad hoc data fields set up to capture new pieces of information needed to meet each new Department of Health target.Some hospitals reckon it will take them on average 15 minutes to cleanse each record so that it can be migrated on to the new shared records. This is basic administrative information - the sensitive clinical information will take longer.This doesn't mean the cleanup shouldn't be done (it is daft to spend money maintaining inaccurate databases), only that the programme to modernise the NHS's IT should take into account the time and money needed. At the moment, both are in short supply.And bad information doesn't always come from computers. Earlier this month, a fatal accident inquiry in Scotland found that 62-year-old Moira Pullar died at Monklands general hospital after being given 10 times too much insulin. A decimal point error in the software? Not so: a nurse misread the writing on a patient chart and failed to follow the proper procedure of checking with another nurse.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Eoww ...Ouch! .... Bang ... Arghhh! ... Oh god, the bells, the bells!Yes, I'm playing with my PSP again. I can't name a device that has caused this much daily discomfort since the codpiece faded from fashion. In fact, most of my sessions on Sony's widescreen wonder can be summed up by Mr T's one-word prediction from Rocky III. "Pain," he said. And that's just right.Whoever designed the PSP clearly had Japanese hands, Popeye-sized forearms and aluminium-coated thumbs. I can't use it for more than half an hour without hobbling off. If it's not the blood draining from my index fingers after flapping away at the top-end triggers, it's the analogue "nub" that renders my left thumb lifeless just as I'm getting the hang of X-Men: Nemesis. Sensation does return after a few minutes in standby mode, but TV ambulance-chasers will surely cotton on to a lucrative new opportunity. I can imagine the ads: "Have you been crippled by Grand Theft Auto? Do you have an arthritic claw where your left hand used to be? Then call Gnarled Gamers 4 U on a no-win, no-fee basis and we'll see how much we can get out of the buggers before your arms finally fall off."Don't get me wrong, I'm not here to pick on Sony, whose device is merely the latest in a long line of finger-torturing devices foisted on ever-younger users. People were complaining about the ergonomic shortcomings of games consoles long before GameBoys hit the street in 1989. Yet these devices get smaller and more multifunctional, putting increasing strain on some of the most sensitive ligaments and nerves.When I was a kid, the only time I thought about my thumb was when my mother slapped me for sucking it too much. Yet now it's expected to control everything from text messaging to protecting the universe from alien invasion. Hardly surprising the poor digit has an incurable illness in the shape of BlackBerry Thumb, an increasingly common symptom of RSI (repetitive strain injury) which accounts for 5.4 million working days lost in the last year alone. Imagine how the first generation of teenagers weaned exclusively on a diet of mobiles, iPods and PSPs will fare in later life. Will they lose all manual dexterity or develop a talon-like appendage to cope with the latest evolutionary challenge?Perhaps it is natural selection. We older gamers will eventually fall over where we stand, with younger ones clambering over our shattered bones. One day, they'll put me in a museum - a rare example of Homo defectus, who died out because he wasted his youth on the football pitch rather than exercising his thumbs as did other Hunter-Fraggers.And knowing my luck, the exhibit will be sponsored by Sony.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Scarcely a day goes by when I don't use my bike. Mindful of carbon footprints, I consciously avoid using the car whenever possible. Even the weekly trip to the supermarket is now more often done with the help of a bike trailer.But this is not, smugly, to advertise my green credentials, because - in reality - it's more a matter of preference than eco virtue. I long since pedalled into a realm where cycling ceased to be merely a convenient method of getting from A to B. It's way beyond that. Scarcely a day goes by when I don't use my bike because, to be honest, I just hate it when I don't.It's not about the exercise: I barely break a sweat for my 20-minute commute. But it gives me something I need. A deep physical pleasure, certainly. I love the rhythm of the pedalling cadence; I find it soothing and calming. I don't ride particularly fast, but there is still the sensation of speed, the satisfaction of moving under one's own steam.A great sense of mental well-being, too. Somehow, I always seem to arrive at my destination with my head centred, my priorities clearer. And having travelled without being cut off from the environment. Sure, there is a downside: instead of being cocooned in a car's comfy, air-conditioned, music-filled compartment, you are fully exposed to the elements, and to the noise and grime of the city.But the upside is that you see so much and experience it far more vividly. The other day, I cycled along a road not normally on my route, but one I have driven down 100 times. I looked up at a nondescript Victorian house I'd hardly noticed before and saw, on the second floor, two alcoves set in the wall in which sat a plaster-of-paris owl and pussycat. Who knows what their story is, but they made me laugh out loud.A day without cycling feels incomplete, a day wasted. You could say I'm a bicycle cultist, a cycling obsessive, a bike freak. But do you know what you're missing?
Microsoft has added another feature to its beta Windows Live (Web 2.0) portal:Favorites. You cantake a "tour".
ModelVauxhall Vectra Estate V6 CDTiPrice&pound;25,945Top speed140mphAcceleration0-60mph in 8.6 secsConsumption40.9mpg (combined)Emissions186g/km (road tax band F)At the wheelJamie CullumOn the stereoGeorge ShearingEn route forMorrison'sThey'd rather walkKeith Richards'Hey, a new Vauxhall Vectra Estate, everybody!" No, it probably is beyond the bounds of print alone to make those words rise thrillingly off the page. Let's face it, that sentence contains at least three of the motoring industry's more heart-sinking terms, namely, "estate", "Vauxhall" and "Vectra".But wait. The Vauxhall Vectra, in saloon form, may have attained the status of a shorthand for haplessness in comedy-writing circles, but it must be doing something right. At any rate, millions of company reps the world over wouldn't fling their briefcase on to the passenger seat of anything less, and they can't all be wrong. The third-generation model, replanned and smartened up, within and without, has received compliments from widespread and formerly sniffy sources. If we can learn to love the Vauxhall Vectra, maybe we can pull together and learn to love it in an estate version, too.It certainly looks great these days. In the past, detecting the difference between a Vauxhall Estate and a shoebox with a radiator has been a task for properly qualified experts only. But the back of the car now sweetly wraps around like understated sunglasses, and they've punched up the front end and introduced some of the vim of the Vauxhall twin-seater sports car, the VX220, a jet-propelled tea tray.There's a charismatic crimp down the centre of the bonnet, and a business-like chrome-encrusted grille, replacing the now-you-see-it, now-you've-already-forgotten-it look that used to characterise the range. It's available with go-getting alloys, too, which, in fact, turn out cleverly to be made of steel, and thus replaceable at just &pound;16 a pop if and when you grind them on a kerb during an incautious reversing manoeuvre.Why, you could almost forget that this was an estate altogether and believe it was a saloon in some kind of director's cut version. Moreover, the futuristic new headlight clusters lend the car an inquisitive expression that it didn't have before. They're not just for effect, either. They house those swivelling headlamps that curl around corners on your behalf, according to the extent to which you happen to be grappling the steering wheel. This is clearly a fabulous device, from a driver-safety point of view, and one for which you would normally pay a premium, but at the same time it confirms one's suspicion that the early 21st century is a uniquely crap time in which to be a rabbit. These days you can get caught in the headlights before the car has even finished coming round the corner.The even worse news for rabbits is that, if the car in question is the Vectra Estate that I drove, it is likely to be coming around the corner pretty fast, too. I had the V6 CDTi, a 3.0 litre, turbocharged diesel unit that roared, at tickover, like the engine of a second world war fighter plane, but which nevertheless delivered thoroughly contemporary bursts of power and feats of acceleration that one did not necessarily associate with estate cars. The smaller than average - and therefore more sporty than usual - steering wheel is apparently standard across the range. It certainly focuses the mind and, again, helps foster the illusion that what you are driving is ritzy and quick-spirited, rather than middle-aged and, in all likelihood, full of shopping and children's litter.Partly to test the Vectra in the most demanding circumstances available - and also to pay a quiet but heartfelt homage to the chimps in the old PG Tips adverts - I used mine to collect a piano in Essex and deliver it to an address in south London. OK, so it was only an electric piano and it conveniently separated into two bits. But the keyboard was full length and the two bits into which the piano separated were individually heavy enough to make grown men weep and phone their chiropractor. The Vectra, with its back seats swiftly and simply flattened, swallowed it whole, though, leaving ample room, probably, for a drumkit and possibly even a medium-sized drummer, if he could have been squished into a small enough flight-case.The burden of a gigantic and ponderous musical instrument did not seem to affect in any adverse way the car's ensuing performance on the westbound carriageway of the A12, large parts of which, I can report, are still apparently under construction and have the consistency of four-inch thick pea shingle. In fact, if anything, the piano acted as a bit of ballast for the back end, sinking the car into the road and enabling it to pull through the rough patches even more merrily.Nor did the Vectra complain of any soreness the morning after, which is more than I can say for myself. For anyone who regularly moves an electric piano around, I would unhesitatingly recommend the Vectra Estate as a frugal, sensibly designed motoring solution. For upright, acoustic models, however, you are probably better off with a fully fledged van or a horsedrawn cart (see Laurel and Hardy).
Dover: the school in question. Photograph: Bradley C Bower/APNot the government's mangled plans to introduce an identity system, but the arguments over "intelligent design" in America. A district judge has ruled that it was unconstitutional to teach intelligent design in school biology classes, as Suzanne Goldenberg writes in today'sGuardian:Yesterday's verdict concludes a trial that was seen as the most important legal review of science and religion since the 1920s. It arrives at a time when the teaching of evolution is under attack in school districts from Georgia to Kansas and when the school district in Dover was seen as the cutting edge of a new effort by the religious right to inject its views into America's state school system.Judge Jones's verdict was ambitious in scope, dealing not only with the actions of the Dover school district but also with the very notion of "intelligent design", an idea which surfaced 15 years ago following the failure of earlier efforts to introduce traditional biblical creationism in public schools.A victory for intelligence over the "intelligent", then.(see also "Flying Spaghetti Monster")
The Lone Ronin blog poses a not-so-hypothetical question about what would happen if you showed you could parse the results from a search engine, eg Google, and provide a much better answer for the top three sites. A fat cheque? Venture capital backing? Accordng to the Lone Ronin, what actually happens is that you getBanned by Google. He writes:It makes very little sense to me because other "meta search" systems (Brainboost, Dogpile, etc.) all do the same thing and for far more users.Before you get too upset, remember that the only people who ever saw this system were Google, Yahoo, MSN and the other partners we were speaking with after the Web 2.0 conference. This wasn't a generally open (or available) system and there were less than 6 companies with access to the results.What's even more interesting is that no one seems to care. You'd think the great A-list driven blogosphere of search engine experts, Google watchers and Web 2.0 mavens would find this story interesting enough to link to, if not investigate further. After all, even the smallest bit of pointless or obviously wrong speculation about Google generates many hundreds of links a day. But not in this case. Google Blog Search currently produces onlyfour results, including the original article.In one of those, Dave Rosenberg has basically reposted Lone Ronin's text on theInfoWorldmagazine blog with the comment: "Good idea, right? Sure, until Google decides you are a threat or pest and block you from using their APIs. Think this will be the only example of this? I would say this is merely the first example of Google shutting down prospective competition and the tip of the evil iceberg."Otherwise the silence is deafening.John Battelle, author of a book about Google, at least providesa brief link, and he mentioned "the author's (John Flowers) attempts to negotiate a sale of his answer/search company, Kozoru" on his Searchblog back on December 1. Hisbare commentwas: "This is an interesting and unusual meditation, a slice of Valley life. I'm rather surprised it made it to the light of day."OK,Kozoruhas been round the block a couple of times and may have stepped on a few toes. But I thought the value of the great blogosphere was that it brought stuff like this into the public eye and analysed it, not ignored it.
Google has published the 2005 edition of its annualZeitgeist, which highlights some of the hings we've searched for over the past 12 months. This year there are some head-to-heads between major memes -- Trump v Martha, Hogwarts v Middle Earth, etc. And there's a particularly interesting one for MP3 v iPod v Podcast.....(Charles Arthuradds: to be really useful to us in the UK, where Martha Stewart is hardly a household name, we'd need Google to filter the searches that came from UK IP addresses - which is, broadly, feasible; it does have a google.co.uk portal which pops up if it thinks you're coming from such an address. What chances of that in 2006, I wonder?)
"Google has agreed to take a 5% stake in Time Warner's AOL internet unit for $1bn (£571m) in a defensive move against Microsoft in the booming internet advertising market. The move follows Time Warner's decision to abruptly break off months of negotiations with Microsoft, which had hoped to elbow Google aside as AOL's main advertising partner," reportsThe Guardian's Mark Tran.Most interesting news: "The firms also agreed, under unspecified conditions, to allow users of Google's recently introduced instant messaging system Google Talk to communicate with users of AOL's market-leading AIM instant messaging service."Here's thepress release.
We've covered the issue of homosexuality and computer games in the past, but in honour of the official first day of civil partnerships in the UK, gamesblog has compiled a list of sources where those curious can find out information about interactive same-sex pleasures.Homosexuality and gaming(gamesblog)Exploring Communities, Questions and Concerns of Lesbian Video Gamers(Killer Betties)Gay characters in videogames(Armchar Arcade)Ten ambiguously gay game characters(Games.net)It's a queer world after all: The Sims and Sexuality(Mia Consalvo)Gaming: the not-so-straight truth(Gamespot)All Out GamingGamers ExperimentationsGaymer.org
I've been playing a lot of the King Kong game and very good it is too. Fairly innovative, always interesting and not too long - not bad for a film licence. But I was a bit concerned bycommentsfrom KK publisher Ubisoft last week that, "we want to have 25 per cent of our turnover coming from games based on movies". Ignore the obvious conclusion that the other 75% are presumably Tom Clancy games and this statement is a little worrying. Yes Kong is an excellent example of game/movie synergy but how often is this done right? Also, Ubi has previously bought us the likes of Beyond Good and Evil - is this the death knell for original games like that?
It is not talked about much these days because it has already become an unexceptional part of daily life, but the popularity of text messaging just goes on and on. Last month in the UK alone the number of messages sent reached 2.8bn, according to figures released yesterday by the Mobile Data Association, with person-to-person texting rising by 23%. On average we send 93m messages a day which, after excluding the very young and the very old, amounts to more than two a day on average for everyone.The SMS revolution has opened up an entirely new layer of communication between people with its own codes, language and conventions. It is one of the fastest-growing consumer products ever and all the more remarkable because it was never intended to happen. Mobile phone owners discovered they could utilise a part of the phone reserved for engineers to communicate with each other. The rest is history. Not all texting is benign. In Australia texts were recently used to orchestrate racist meetings and in China, the world's biggest cellphone market, there are reportedly 2,800 surveillance centres to monitor traffic. Overall, though, texting is a force for good, expanding the freedom to do things including cross-generational conversations, dating, voting in game shows, writing poetry, alerting passengers to aircraft delays, launching marketing campaigns or simply adding a little extra to the everyday joys of conversation. Even when the text news is bad, we should not simply blame the messenger.
In today's Guardian, I've written a little bit aboutsearch engine optimisation. The hook for the piece was relatively simple: I created a website (more of a page, actually) and spent a couple of days trying to see what effect different SEO techniques had on its ranking.The site (ecofriendlyflipflops.co.uk) is no longer online, but inside a couple of days - and with little more than a sequence of links - I managed to move it approximately 11,000 places up a specific query. I intentionally kept the remit of the exercise very limited, didn't spend hours tracking the PageRank, and didn't engage in any of the more serious tactics of the bad guys (spamming, fake blog networks etc).So what does this show us? Well, as a scientific experiment, the answer is not much. As I said, it was limited in scope and in emphasis. But as a grounding in the concept of dirty optimisation, it proves the point: this stuff can work, and this game goes on every single day.You may not think search engine ranking matters much any more. After all, we're all savvy now, aren't we? I don't agree. Vast numbers of people use Google, and they trust it to an extent which sometimes borders on the ludicrous. As I state in the article,research indicatesthat more than 10% of all visits to online shops are the direct result of a Google query. People are trying to abuse that trust left, right and centre: and if any search engine fails to keep up in this struggle, then it fails its customers.
"World of Warcraft, a multiplayer role-playing game, has reached a major milestone. According to game developer Blizzard Entertainment, the game now has over five million players worldwide. The subscription-based offering launched about a year ago in North America, Australia, and New Zealand, and also has been introduced in Europe and Asia," reportsNewsfactor."Yankee Group analyst Michael Goodman said World of Warcraft took the online gaming market by storm in a short time. 'It has global appeal, unlike most games that do well in either Asia or the U.S. but typically not in both regions,' he said."
Yesterday, blogger Rogers Cadenhead revealed inWikipedia Founder Looks Out for Number 1that "Another person obsessively monitoring his own biography is Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales, who has edited it frequently, removing references to a credited 'co-founder' of the encyclopedia and obscuring the nature of a pornographic web site he once published."The story has now been taken up byWired News, which reports that "Wales acknowledged he's made changes to his bio, but said the edits were made to correct factual errors and provide a more rounded version of events.""People shouldn't do it, including me," he said. "I wish I hadn't done it. It's in poor taste.... People have a lot of information about themselves but staying objective is difficult. That's the trade-off in editing entries about yourself.... If you see a blatant error or misconception about yourself, you really want to set it straight."As the story points out: " Wikipedia's own guidelines caution against editing your own bio as it 'can open the door to rather immature behavior and loss of dignity'."
This could be the answer to another form of the Net's version of the chicken-egg question, viz, which is worse, malware writers or paedophiles? Well, there's certainly no record of a paedophile catching a malware writer, but now you've got a case where a child pornography offender received a copy of a worm-generated email and turned himself in.A child porn offender in Germany turned himself in to the police after mistaking an email he received from a computer worm for an official warning that he was under investigation, authorities said on Tuesday.The 20-year-old was caught out by a version of the "Sober" worm, a prolific Internet virus which can invade computers and then send out messages from a host of fabricated addresses.The trap was set when the man got an email saying "an investigation is underway", that listed the sender as Germany's Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA). Police charged him after finding pornographic images of children on his home computer.Perhaps there has been a similar case in the US, given that George Bush is admitting that there have beensecret wiretaps on US citizens, and that this worm has been around for a while. But perhaps the US's police have also more wisely decided to keep quiet about those.."It just goes to show that computer worms aren't always destructive," said a spokesman for police in the western city of Paderborn. "Here it helped us to uncover a crime which would otherwise probably have gone undetected."We just hope he's not trying to encourage worm writers with those words.
I voted it mygame of the yearand it seems a load of you agree with me.World of Warcrafthas now got 5 million subscribers worldwide. Gulp. The game has taken MMO gaming if not to the mainstream then certainly far from the niche the genre previously inhabited. I've got friends, who wouldn't previously have gone near a game containing orcs and elves, who have spent hundreds of hours developing their characters and exploring the breathtaking world. Interestingly these same friends have barely bought another game between them since getting WoW. Could that explain the general downturn in sales this year? Whatever, WoW is a masterpiece that will be fondly remembered in 20 years time.
Sales may have been down on last year - and some big names have seriously underperformed - but the Christmas charts have been announced. And, for the third year running, NFS tops the festive chart. Please, please, let it be something different next year.1. Need for Speed: Most Wanted - EA2. King Kong: Official Game of the Movie - Ubisoft3. Call of Duty 2: Big Red One - Activision4. FIFA 06 - EA5. Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - EA6. Pro Evolution Soccer 5 - Konami7. Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe - Buena Vista Games8. Star Wars: Battlefront II - Lucasarts9. True Crime: New York City - Activision10. The Sims 2 - EA
An article in the latest issue of science journalNature[reg only] has lifted the lid on a trademark dispute between games firm Nintendo and geneticists.Geneticist Pier Paolo Pandolfi, of the the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New Yorkich, identified a gene which caused cancer - and decided to name it Pokemon. Unfortunately Nintendo didn't take kindly to the "Pokemon causes cancer" stories that ensued, and threatened legal action against the scientists responsible.The research team quietly capitulated, and renamed the less-catch catchy Zbtb7.One of my colleagues tells me that he interviewed Pandolfi at the time of the discovery - and apparently the scientists concerned weren't too bothered about any potential conflict with the makers of Pokemon. Whoops.
Maybe you should think about going back to old-fashioned headphones. According toTechWeb news:The earbud-style headphones packaged with iPod and MP3 players can cause serious hearing loss, a Northwestern University professor and audiologist said last week. "Insert earphones can boost the signal by as much as six to nine decibels. That's about the difference between the sound of a vacuum cleaner and a motorcycle," said Dean Garstecki, a professor at Northwestern in a statement. "It's a significant difference.""Earbud headphones, the type that rest inside the ear, can lead to permanent damage after just an hour of high-volume music in the 110-120 decibel range, equivalent to the noise level of a concert, Garstecki said."
CNet reports that: "Two owners of a Los Angeles game store and a third man face a up to five years in prison on charges filed Monday in a federal copyright infringement case for selling modified Xbox game consoles, prosecutors said. The modifications allowed the machines to play pirated video games, they said."The three men are being accused of "conspiring to traffic in a technology used to circumvent a copyright protection system and conspiring to commit criminal copyright infringement," in violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, according to a statement from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Central District of California.Jason Jones and Jonathan Bryant, two Los Angeles residents who own the ACME Game Store on Melrose Ave., allegedly sold Xbox game systems that had been modified by Pei Cai, of Pico Rivera, Calif.
