According to Marc Jacobs at Electronic Arts and Rob Pardo at Blizzard, the future streets of digital interactivity will be littered with the corpses of half-realised virtual worlds. Jacobs and Pardo, speaking to the gathered at the Game Developers Conference, also predicted that they'll be the victims of Big Media's forays into the space.Via theBBC:Because of WoW and dumb money and big publisher pressure there will be a lot of corpses," agreed Rob Pardo, head of game design at Blizzard, the makers of Warcraft."Viacom has launched three MMOs and nobody noticed," said Raph Koster, president of Areae and the former head of Star Wars Galaxies.He added: "Anybody who is not watching how big media is moving into this space is missing a major major story... We are about to see a truly massive explosion in the quantity of online worlds of various types."Regular readers of the blog will also be pleased/dismayed to learn that the luminiaries anticipate the movement away from "fantasy-style science fiction adventures" towards a social virtual worlds paradigm:The panel also predicted that non-gaming MMOs such as Second Life would be prevalent in the short term. ... "Five years from now a social networking site without a 3D universe will look like a dinosaur."[Mark Kern of Red 5 Studios] said there was a lot of similarity between how a social networking site cultivated and grew a community and the work done in MMOs.
With the European Playstation 3 launch only 15 days away, there are few signs that the reality of its limited backwards compatibility with PS2 games - because it will lack the Emotion Engine chip (used in the PlayStation 2) - has filtered through to retail outlets.Staff at one Game shop that has already taken 200 pre-orders told Technology Guardian that people wanted them for their ability to play PS2 games. On hearing that that is not guaranteed - Sony's head of worldwide studios, Phil Harrison, said that of roughly 8,500 PS2 games released worldwide, 1,000 (unspecified) ones will be playable using software compability - the sales staff were amazed. "We haven't been told about that," one said.Details about the incompatibility do not seem to have filtered through to any of the retail outlets we looked at - including Amazon UK, where the PS3 is second in the videogames category only to The Sims 2. Harrison was due to speak yesterday at the Game Developers' Conference in San Francisco and was due to unveil new features that will enhance the PS3's community and networking features.But the PS2 remains important. So says Sony's head in the US, Jack Tretton, who this week told the website gamepro.com in aninterviewthat: "The PS2 is extremely relevant. Some of the best games that have ever come out came out in 2006, and will be coming in 2007 ... I think the PS2 is a great machine. I have access to every game on every platform, and I still find myself gravitating towards PS2 games. What it lacks in state-of-the-art technology it more than delivers in value and quality gameplay. That means a lot to consumers."Stretton gained some fame - or perhaps notoriety - when in an interview published in January (though given in December) he promised a $1,200 (&pound;622) bounty on any PS3 that remained unsold in a shop for more than five minutes. This led the mischievious to head storewards to snap pictures of unsold machines. They weren't disappointed: analysts estimated that one third of Sony's 1m US consoles remained unsold after the launch.So how does Stretton think the PS3 is selling in the US? Are sales going as well as he had hoped? "Absolutely," Stretton told Gamepro. "We've talked about the tremendous numbers [on past PlayStation systems]. Considering those lofty [sales] heights, our initial PS3 numbers hit 1m faster than the PS2. So I would love to fast-forward to the end of the story. But [critics] are microscopically looking at the first 60 or 80 days."Separately, Sony made another move to try to win the war against HD DVD format. It cut the price of standalone Blu-ray player to $599, the same as the top-end PS3. It is unclear whether that will encourage PS3 sales - or persuade people who had been looking at it as a "cheap" Blu-ray machine to buy just the player instead.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
For years videogame watchers have complained that there is no mainstream channel for independently produced games. Sure, you can hunt down great indie titles online, but until recently, the only way casual users could experience these hidden gems would be through a mainstream publisher picking them up for retail distribution.Xbox Live Arcade and now the PlayStation 3's E-Distribution Initiative have shifted the industry mindset, with Microsoft and Sony actively courting the indie development scene. Sony has gone one step further with PS3, allowing users to install alternative operating systems to start their own programming projects. At last year's E3 event, Sony's head of the software platform division, Izumi Kawanishi, openly invited bedroom coders to start producing games and other apps for PS3.But this is also happening without their permission. For years there's been a large homebrew development community, a determined band of coders who hack into the firmware of games consoles, to seize control of the silicon and persuade the machine to run their own applications.But homebrew is quietly being legitimised. Online communities likeDcemu.co.ukprovide a hub of homebrew development, offering clear instructions and helpful forums to non-techie uses wishing to run indie software on their consoles. The PSP scene is the liveliest. There are hundreds of apps, from emulations of classic consoles and home computer games to text versions of the Bible and guitar tuition.Hardware manufacturers are getting in on the act. UK company Datel recently released a Games 'n' Music for the Nintendo DS - just slot it in and you can run homebrew games and apps, as well as watch videos and play MP3s. It even comes with 25 homebrew games.Even more accessibly, the flash game siteWiicade.comreleased an API allowing developers to support the motion sensing capabilities of the Wiimote controller. Soon, then, Wii owners will be able to play independently produced titles that use the physical controls in entirely new ways, Or, just as likely, you'll get 100 versions of Tetris that let you manipulate shapes by twisting your wrist. But hey, that still sounds like fun.This is, of course, all part of the breakdown in digital barriers between the consumer and the content provider. In courting the MySpace generation, console manufacturers have had to loosen their obsessions with control and security. And it's been liberating. Xbox Live Arcade is a success, and by embracing independent thought, Sony could turn round the PS3 naysayers. If indie gaming can do that, it can do anything.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
When it emerged yesterday thatTurkey was blocking access to YouTubebecause of an offensive video made by Greeks, the mind could only boggle at what the offending item may have been:Turkish media highlighted what some called a "virtual war" between Greeks and Turks on YouTube, with people from both sides posting videos to belittle and berate the other.The newspaper Hurriyet said thousands of people had written to YouTube and that the Ataturk videos had been removed from the site.It's illegal to make offensive statements about Ataturk if you're in Turkey, and the title of the vid in question - "Kemal Gay Turk" - gives away its method of attack. But BoingBoing has had the best line I've seen on it so far, calling it "all a 'you're a fag' flame war".But it's not often you get international politics, history, YouTube and homophobia all wrapped up in one perfect little storm. Pure silliness.
When ordering BT Broadband (option 2), I requested ADSL cards but received BT Voyager 1055 USB adaptors. These are plainly marked "compatible only with Windows 2000 And XP" and I'm running Vista. At no time during the call was I asked about my operating system, nor was this limitation pointed out to me. Needless to say, my email of complaint has so far met with a deafening silence. Dick ThickettUSB wireless adaptors have only two advantages, neither of which has anything to do with either wireless or networking -- they are cheap, and easy to fit. As such, they find their place in consumer bundles that are sold on price. Since you are willing to open up your PC and install an expansion card, you'd be better off buying a Vista-compatible PCI card. I have not tried any but the Linksys Wireless-G PCI Card WMP54G, the similar Broadcom BCM4306 and the Netgear WG311T 108Mbps are listed as being compatible on the Winmatrix site athttp://www.winmatrix.com/forums/index.php?showtopic=10334.PCI cards are more reliable and don't use up processor cycles like USB adaptors. Whether you can get BT to supply one is another matter. Since Vista was all over the press for five years, had 5m beta testers and the final code was released last year, you might have thought more companies would have seen it coming and prepared for it. Apparently not.
I am preparing a PowerPoint presentation with about 80 photographs. What is the best size and resolution for the photos to get the best result without making the file too big? Rejane BelangerAn article on the Microsoft Office site says: "The Basic Rule is this: For images that fill the slide, the image size (in pixels) should be equal to the video screen's resolution. For example, if your screen resolution is set to 1024 x 768, that's the size you want your full-slide images to be. If the image occupies only half the width and half the height of the slide, it should be 512 pixels wide, and or 384 pixels high." (http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/powerpoint/HA011163551033.aspx)I usually start with images intended for web use, with a resolution of 72 pixels per inch, not ones designed for printing (probably 300ppi). PowerPoint seems to assume 100ppi, so resampling your high-resolution images at 96ppi -- using Irfan View or PhotoShop or whatever -- will probably produce better results.However, try not to change too many things in PowerPoint. It has a wonderful "undo" capability, but if you change an image it will keep the old copy, just in case you want to go back to it later. This will, of course, make the file correspondingly larger.Backchat: Robert D Heap says: "If your picture is full screen, insert it as a background. This eliminates all the edit clutter and reduces the file size considerably, with no visible loss of quality. Text can be superimposed if desired." If using more than one picture, he adds, save the whole slide as a jpeg, then use this as the background on a new blank slide: "The file size is reduced, typically by 60%, I find."
If I upgrade my Windows XP computer to Vista, does that mean I can upgrade my Windows Me machine to XP, using the upgrade CD I used before -- or would I be breaching the conditions of my "single user" agreement? Dougie FirthPC manufacturers generally license Windows at the lowest price, where each copy is specifically tied to a single PC. Microsoft now makes this absolutely clear in the EULA, or End-User Licensing Agreement. I believe that re-using the XP upgrade CD would violate that agreement.Also, the Vista upgrade has to be done from a validated copy of XP, and I'd expect Microsoft to invalidate your XP key when it validates the Vista key. Even if it didn't, every XP key is associated with a hash number calculated from the PC hardware (motherboard, processor, etc) that it is used on. Your Me system's hardware would produce a completely different hash value. Of course, you could still try it.
Confused about Sony's online strategy for the PS3? Me too. But last night's GDC keynote from Phil Harrison made things clearer. Forget all the guff about Game 3.0 - Sony have simply taken elements of the 360 achievements system and the Wii's Mii avatars and then thrown in some interesting ideas of their own. The most exciting of which is UK developedLittleBigPlanet. This community based game - get ready for numerous "MySpace of games" press releases - allows users to create and solve puzzles together, while exploring a cuddly cartoon world. Yup, user generated gaming is hitting the mainstream - in theory. Much depends on how easy is it to actually create stuff, but for the first time the words PS3 and online are causing excitement. And then there was PS3 Home..How we scoffed when they were announced but, as anyone who plays the 360 knows, Achivements/Gamerpoints are highly addictive and very clever way of promoting brand loyalty. Why buy the PS3 version of a multi format franchise when the 360 version will give you those all important points? Yesterday's announcement/confirmation of PS3 Home proves that Sony realises this. Home lets you create a virtual avatar which you can use to interact with other users - think Second Life but prettier. You'll also have a "room" where you can show off your gaming achiev..trophies and watch movie trailers etc.Quite how it will all work - will you be limited to how many people you can interact with at any time, and if so how? Split into regions? How much creative freedom? - remains to be seen, but this is an encouraging move from Sony. By "borrowing" elements of the 360's gamerpoints and the Wii's Mii avatars - anyone else spend as much time creating those as playing some of the games? - and adding a layer of multimedia on top Home and LittleBigPlanet are finally a reason to get excited about the PS3 online.
I use Opera, and I like it. I often hear Firefox recommended, so why do I never seem to hear about Opera? Dave MorganIn computing, recommendations often have a pseudo-religious nature. Firefox was claimed to be innovative for adding features that Opera already had because Firefox is open source and free. Opera's genuine innovations, superior accessibility (eg for blind users), robustness, standards-compliance and security were ignored because it is a commercial program, and because the free version (which appeared with v5.0 in 2000) was supported by advertising. Although Opera removed the ad banners in 2005, it was far too late to have much impact.Also, Firefox comes from California, whereas Opera comes from Norway. However, Opera has found support from companies based outside Silicon Valley, including Nintendo, Nokia, Sony, Sharp, Archos and Psion.
I'm getting a warning from my free AVG anti-virus that I have a Trojan Lop. AVG can't deal with this. Windows Defender reports that everything is OK, as do several other anti-spyware programs. Denis ColliganIt may be a "false positive", but it's worth running Symantec's free Trojan Linkoptimizer Removal Tool. You can download it fromhttp://tinyurl.com/o5mnl
Wikipedia's latest scandal is the revelation that a very high-ranking administrator, and employee (until this month) of an associated commercial venture, Wikia, had falsified his academic credentials. Concerns had beenvoiced by criticsfor a long time but the issue was validated by the publication of a correction added to aNew Yorker articleabout Wikipedia. It said: "[A contributor called Essjay] was described in the piece as 'a tenured professor of religion at a private university' with 'a PhD in theology and a degree in canon law' ... Essjay now says that his real name is Ryan Jordan, that he is 24 and holds no advanced degrees, and that he has never taught."The misrepresentation was confirmed when, as part of the Wikia hiring process, accurate details of his identity were presumably required. Much discussion of the scandal has focused on how poorly the executive management handled everything, from initial vetting to subsequent explanations of the deception. But the deepest lesson is what this tells us about the social dynamics driving participation in Wikipedia.Rhetoric about "peer production" often conjures up some alchemical process where collective action mystically transforms garbage into gold. The buzzword "emergent" functions as a synonym for "magic". A pioneer of computers once lamented being asked: "Pray, Mr Babbage, if you put into the machine wrong figures, will the right answers come out?" Too many people are still searching for that sort of machine, and, much more dangerously, some marketers seem to want to build businesses on the premise that it has been developed at last (beware the catchphrase "wisdom of crowds").The reality is much more mundane. Frequently, what is naively viewed as spontaneous generation is in fact the product of a relatively small number of people who have been induced to provide a huge amount of unpaid labour. The lifeblood of Wikipedia is selling heavy contributors a dream that their donated effort will give them the prestige of an academic. This is very clear in the Wikipedian's credo of "writing an encyclopedia". But all that'll happen is they will work for free, while elsewhere the Wikia investors will reap the rewards. But it's a powerful dream.And "Essjay" - Ryan Jordan - was that dream's poster child. His biographical self-description asserted "Yes, I'm a professor", listed his supposed four degrees and included a claim to "teach both undergraduate and graduate theology". It represents a detailed fantasy that he found an opportunity to play out on Wikipedia. His writings on Wikipedia show someone revelling in the role. Ironically, many participants seemed to consider his lying in Wikipedia content disputes to be a far greater sin than lying to the New Yorker, which should be a red flag about the value system.There was a letter sent to a professor, in which his phony credentials were used as part of an endorsement of Wikipedia's value and accuracy: "It is never the case that known incorrect information is allowed to remain in Wikipedia." Later, describing fooling magazines, he bragged about "doing a good job playing the part".Even his subsequent flailing as his tangle of lies became undone displayed a revealing mindset. He cast himself as devoted to Wikipedia. He seemed to believe he could extricate himself through continued further worship. "Essjay" ultimately should be viewed more in pity than in anger.One of Wikipedia's major public relations successes has been in misdirecting observers into a narrative of technological miracles, diverting attention from analysing its old-fashioned cult appeal. While I don't mean to imply that everyone involved in Wikipedia is wrapped up in delusion, that process is a key factor. A charismatic leader, who peddles a type of spiritual transcendence through selfless service to an ideal, finding a cadre of acolytes willing to devote their lives (without payment) to the organisation's projects - that's a story worth telling. But not abetting.&#183;sethf.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
MPs will hear evidence about the future role of e-petitions today, in the wake of the million-strong petition to the Downing Street website against national road pricing.The unprecedented response to the innovation on the No 10 site provoked the prime minister, Tony Blair, into providing a personalised email response to each petitioner.Now MPs from the public administration select committee will quiz the creator of the e-petitions part of the Downing Street site, Tom Steinberg.Mr Steinberg is the director of the charity mySociety, responsible for such websites as TheyWorkForYou.com, WriteToThem.com and Pledgebank.comThe committee will be looking at increasing public participation in politics through e-government and online democracy.As little as five years ago few MPs had a website, and some refused to use email. Now an increasing number have their own blogs, including at least one cabinet minister, David Miliband.Also giving evidence to the select committee will be the Hansard Society, which campaigns for greater public involvement in politics.
I hate the Web 2.0 buzzword "conversation". It's become a meaningless shortcut for something more fundamental about what we do in this age of networked, always-on, global, participative media. But unfortunately it's relevant in certain cases. Take, for example, MIT's new research project,The Restaurant, which is one approach to an interactive "conversation": everyone who plays this 10-minute multiplayer game contributes to its eventual design, creating a measurable dialogue between the developers and the eventual (commercial?) players. As the blurb says, it's an easy way to get a game designer credit. The final product will be submitted to the 2008Independent Game Festival. But will it float?The concept is interesting, and born of a genuine desire to make a contribution to artificial intelligence development. From the research website:This project attempts to address two frustrations I experienced as a professional game developer. 1) Convincing human social behavior is difficult to model with existing hand crafted AI systems. 2) Play testing by people outside of the development team typically comes too late to have a major impact on the final product. This experiment aims to generate AI behaviors that conform to the way players actually choose to interact with other characters and the environment; behaviors that are convincingly human because they capture the nuances of real human behavior and language.Jeff Orkin, the creator, explains this further onhis blogpost,1,000 players can't be wrong:The primary responsibility of a game AI programmer is to anticipate player behavior, and provide satisfying responses for every anticipated scenario. With each generation of games this gets more difficult, as virtual worlds become more realistic with additions like real-time physics simulation. I'm working on a research project that flips the traditional approach to game AI on its head. My goal is to capture gameplay from 1,000 multiplayer game sessions, analyze this data, and use it to generate AI for a new single player game this summer.Arguably, communal development is not an ideal. It could result in a mediocre product, dominated by a few [insert your chosen noun here]-mongering trolls. But this isn't aWikiNovel-type WikiGame. The lessons learned here may help to create programming alternatives for future interactive products which are more closely related to real-world actions.While I sincerely doubt the major developers are going to give up control of their products to this style of open-development (nor, do I think, would gamers want to see the results on store shelves, though I would be happy to be proven wrong), The Restaurant is a compelling step towards collaborative interactivity in this industry.See what you can do. The Restaurant is available to download for freehere.Many thanks to the Armchair Assassin for pointing us in the right direction
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Pimp my ride - or just its chipsModern cars are controlled by computers, as the tainted petrol episode showed last week - and they can be reprogrammed any way you want, reports Andrew Brown.PlayStation 3 compatibility story is slow to seep outUK outlets seem unaware that European PS3 won't play many PS2 games says Charles Arthur.South Africa's freedom includes its dataFree our data:The South African model was a result of the end of apartheid, but its approach has lessons for the UK.Homebrew coders cook up a success for consolesKeith Stuart: For years videogame watchers have complained that there is no mainstream channel for independently produced games.GadgetsBlackBerry 8800 | LG Prada phone | FreeloaderNewly Asked Questions:Is it true that Vista has already been cracked?It looked that way last week, says Kate Bevan.Will the EU ruling against Microsoft have unintended consequences?The European Commission has published a 'statement of objection' accusing the company of not honouring the settlement reached in 2004. Everyone But Microsoft 1, Microsoft 0, right? Not so fast, writes Wendy M Grossman.Read me firstOh, what a tangled web we weave when first we practise to deceive, says Seth Finkelstein.This time, the startup boom is no bubbleVictor Keegan: The scene is a Starbucks in Regent Street, London, last week. Two 23-year-old women from Trinity College, Dublin, are doing a five-minute pitch from a laptop to a couple of serious venture capitalists (VCs).TechnobileMy mouth is not in a direct line with my ear, writes Charles Arthur so please could designers of cordless phones take note?The evidence mounts on the need for expert witnessesThere is rising concern over the lack of any certification or register for those offering specialist knowledge on computers to courts, says Peter Warren.Why online television is going to be Joost the jobInterview: The men behind Skype and KaZaA have designs on your viewing habits - and the advertisers will love it.If you think selling Linux is easy, why not beat Dell to it?Dell's latest launch has really taken off, writes Jack Schofield. Unfortunately for Dell's crumbling profitability, it's a website called IdeaStorm, not a new PC.NewsbytesPCTV to go | Peer to peer rentals | Music stores sorted | Ethical ups and downs | Peering at US patents | Optical fibre penetration | 192 plus 2007Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Visit theAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
The GDC - Game Developers Conference - has taken on greater significance since E3 imploded. While the focus is still primarily on game makers, rather than players, more and more publishers are using the event to show off code or announce new projects. So Rare have been showing their new version of Speccy classic Jetpac - see image above - while the ridiculous, yet actually rather brilliant, amBX system will now work with Second Life. But the big news is likely to come tonight (UK time) with Sony's Phil Harrison supposedly outlining the PS3 online strategy - about time too, of course - and presenting footage of some new titles. Will it be enough to win over the Sony doubters?
I was vaguely confused by readingthis story in the Telegraphabout the BBC's long-trailed but rarely seen iPlayer. Why? Because it claims it's going to compete with iTunes. According to the article:BBC Worldwide, the commercial arm of the BBC, has unveiled ambitious plans to compete with music and video download service iTunes.The iPlayer has been developed by the BBC itself, and is expected to be approved by the BBC Trust later this spring. It will fulfil a public-service remit by giving UK licence-fee payers a seven-day "window" to catch up with BBC shows online, but Mr Smith said that BBC Worldwide also wanted to generate revenue with advertiser-funded content and pay-for downloads.I very much doubt that will ever be a competitor to iTunes, just as the fact that the BBC sells videos of Little Britain has yet to displace HMV from the high street. But I suppose I know what they're getting at.However, it's also a little strange to put up the BBC in this manner, given that the Telegraph (along with other UK media groups, including the Guardian) have lobbied against the iPlayer. Indeed, given the way that the project has been hamstrung since before its conception, going international may be that the only chance of success it has.And more to the point, as far as I'm aware iPlayer - if and when it launches - won't even have radio built in because of the complex rights issues. Could the BBC ever compete with iTunes, Google and other media sales platforms on the web?
Wikipedia - banned by some academics as a source for student essays - has been made compulsory reading (and writing) for a new course at the University of East Anglia.Students are assessed on editing and writing articles on Middle East politics for the online encyclopaedia, which is open to contributions from anyone.Nicola Pratt, a lecturer in international relations, said she used to be "one of the disgruntled crown of academics who berate students for using Wikipedia in their essays" but is now convinced it can be a great opportunity for students to see at first hand how knowledge is produced.Uniquely in the UK, her postgraduate students studying for a masters degree in international relations and development are assessed on editing eight Wikipedia articles to improve the quality and make them more balanced. They must also write one of their own.They haven't found it easy, according to Dr Pratt, and soon discovered just how much reading around the subject was involved. "I've seen improvement with all the students - I think it's working," she said.Her students are dealing with often highly controversial topics in Middle Eastern politics and on the Wikipedia discussion boards they can gain insights into differing interpretations of the same event, as well as the need to cite evidence and avoid personal rants.She still doesn't think that Wikipedia is necessarily a good source for student essays - though some articles are better than others - but having to contribute is a different matter. "If they are aware of how Wikipedia is formed then there is a better chance of developing their ability to critically evaluate whether it is a good source or not to use in an essay," she says.She is undeterred by the revelation this week that a 24-year-old student from Kentucky had been posing as a professor of religious studies to make some 20,000 alterations to articles on Wikipedia.The ethos of Wikipedia is that anyone can contribute, regardless of status, argues Dr Platt. What's relevant is their knowledge as judged by other readers, not whether they are professors or not - and the fact the student was exposed shows it works.Dr Platt added she would like to extend her pilot teaching scheme to undergraduate students.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
It's looking increasingly as if OpenID - an attempt to create a single sign-on standard - is achieving the big mo. A number of names are already backing the concept, including AOL and Microsoft, but now lots of smaller players are getting behind it too.The latestis Wordpress.com, the popular blogging platform.Are you fed up with having to remember dozens of usernames and password? Does the idea of creating yet another account on yet another site leave you cold?OpenID is a new standard that hopes to alleviate some of the pain, and we've just made it available to everyone who has a WordPress.com blog. This means you can sign in to a growing number of sites using your existing WordPress.com account.If you want to find out more about the system, just go toOpenID.net.
GamePoliticsthrows out an issue I've been thinking about for a few years now, but have been loath to blog about - could the humble MMO be harbouring nefarious groups hell-bent on doing Evil to Western Civilisation? Could a terrorist actually be the person behind my so-called friend the Furry? Is s/he/it trying to draw me over to the dark side? What about all those cabals I'm not friendly with in my online games? Could they actually be groups of terrorists plotting against all that is Great and Good?Quoting GamePolitics' quote fromCounterterrorism Blog(that's a catchy name):Streaming video can be uploaded into Second Life and a scenario can easily be constructed whereby an experienced terrorist bomb-maker could demonstrate how to assemble bombs using his avatar to answer questions as he plays the video... Just as Real Life companies such as Toyota test their products in Second Life so could terrorists construct virtual representations of targets they wish to attack...As one commentator says, if gangs are recruiting throughMySpacewhy shouldn't it happen in MMOs?Terra Nova, of course, takes another angle. Ren Reynolds posits (in 2005) that we may learn something about terrorism from observing griefing practices in virtual worlds.Certainly if one reads what analysis say about al-Qaeda rather than what the politicians tell us it seems that rather than being a structured organisation lead by a shadowy figure it is individuals or small groups that happen to share a similar set of dislikes i.e. their perception of western or more specifically US imperialism; and a similar set of techniques i.e. certain types attacks on civilian populations. Which behaviourally and structurally really might be like griefers in some respects, and the lack of moral equivalence (i.e. no I'm not saying griefers are terrorists and I'm not saying terrorist are game players) should not mask any potential behavioural lesions we could draw.A touchy subject. TN guest author and blog master of3pointDMark Wallace attracted a good chunk of ire to hissuggestionthat meta-guild W-Hat, who have presences in many MMO spaces, is exactly the type of group that should be observed:Members and past members of the W-Hat groups there have been responsible for some of the most outrageous builds in all the virtual world -- including satirizations of the 2001 attack on the World Trade Center and the assassination attempt on the pope.Where is the line drawn? W-Hat is arguably one of the most creative presences in Second Life and succeeds in pushing the boundaries in all of the other worlds they are in. When do its members' attacks graduate from dark satire/irritating griefing to "terrorism"? When their activities move into the so-called real world? The ever outspoken Second Life residentProkofy Nevahas been harangued by W-Hat members offline (read his viewpoint in Mark's post) ; are they now part of a terrorist group?Now that the initial curiosity about virtual worlds has died down, I'm looking forward to some proper, well-thought out discussion at mass-media levels about the implications these spaces have for freedom of communication. I anticipate much more on this subject throughout the year.viaCrystaltips' del.icio.us
Mark BaldwinArtistic director, Rambert Dance CompanyWhen we last performed at the Bolshoi Theatre mobiles were going off all the time, and people were completely casual about answering them. I think it may be because the Russians regard going out to the theatre as such a social occasion, all of them dressed up to the nines, and it's a natural extension for them to be on the phone chatting to their friends. It's almost as bad in China, although when we were last there my translator explained that the man talking loudly into his phone next to me was telling the person on the other end how good the show was. At first it used to faze the dancers when phones went off, but they are used to it now. It partly depends what music is being played. The other week, a phone went off during Brian Eno's score for Pond Way and it fitted in rather well.My worst experience was being in a concert of new music when I suddenly remembered I hadn't switched my own phone off. The piece was so quiet I didn't dare rustle through my coat to find it. I just sat there, red-faced and sweating, hoping it wouldn't go off.Roxana SilbertArtistic director of Paines PloughA mobile going off is one thing, but people actually answer them now. I did a show in Stratford East a couple of years ago, and a teenager spent 10 minutes describing the show to her dad, and explaining why she couldn't leave the theatre to meet him because it was such a critical moment. I think it's much more acceptable to use your mobile than it used to be. Talking on a train or a bus used to be badly thought of, but now it's completely natural. We have a phone go off practically every time we do a show. It breaks the concentration of the audience, sometimes more so than the actors. If it happens at the wrong moment, it can stuff a whole scene. I think electronic jamming in all sorts of public places is a good idea. We're all obsessed. Myself included.Michael SimkinsActorI've done a lot of West End shows, and I always seem to be in the scene when the phone goes off. People don't realise that even if you ask people to turn their mobiles off at the beginning, they turn them on again in the interval. The most terrible time for mobiles is the first 10 minutes of the second half of the play. It's terribly distracting.I was once in Terence Rattigan's Man and Boy with David Suchet when a phone went off for the second time in 10 minutes. Suchet stopped mid-sentence and froze. He looked up at the circle with a look of utmost sadness. The phone kept ringing; all eyes were on this poor woman, scrabbling around in her bag for it to turn it off. Eventually she snapped it off, and the second the noise stopped, Suchet continued. It was such a brilliant, gently damning way to deal with it.Mark RavenhillPlaywrightMy agent is the only person whose phone has gone off during one of my shows. It was during my monologue Product at the Bush Theatre. A phone started ringing and ringing, and everyone was looking around. Then I heard someone swear and turn it off, and I thought, I know that voice. It took a lot of concentration to carry on with the show. We also had a bit of a problem doing Citizenship at the National, where teenagers sitting in the circle were texting their friends in the stalls. But after a few minutes they stopped. If it's a boring play, why shouldn't you text someone? I think a phone blocking system is a great idea; I'm amazed one wasn't installed across all London theatres 10 years ago.Braham MurrayCo-artistic director, Manchester Royal Exchange TheatreThe technology is available here but we're not allowed to use it. My understanding is that it would also jam emergency calls to doctors and such. God yes, we all want to do something about mobiles, but it's not legal. It's far worse in America. I was at a concert over there and I was horrified to see young people texting each other all the way through the show. I later found out that they were texting each other about the show. If you operate a theatre in the round, as I do, a mobile phone going off a few feet away from an actor is absolute murder. It cuts straight across their concentration. I think they're a genuine curse.Felix DexterActor and stand-up comedianFor a comedian it can be a gift, because there is such an opportunity for ridicule. The person with the phone invariably feels vulnerable, and the audience really want you to hammer them. I'm usually very sarcastic. I might ask if we can stop the show because there's a surgeon getting a life or death call. A couple of times I've just wrestled the phone off the person and start talking to whoever's on the other end. It's a terrible admission, but I have left my own phone on while I was on stage and I've got the most ridiculous message tone. When it went off, I had a brief debate with myself: do I put my hand up and suffer the ignominy of looking a complete fool? In the end, I decided to pretend it wasn't me. I just threw lots of accusing looks around the room.Richard EyreDirectorYes, great idea. Could someone also devise a machine that would put a soundproof bag over the heads of coughers?David PughTheatre producerIt's terribly distracting when a mobile phone goes off during a show. When Richard Griffiths was in Heroes, we had a debacle. A lady's phone went off three times, which was really pushing it. Richard spoke quite severely to her and she was asked to leave. Now, doing Equus with him, we haven't had any problems - he rules the stage like Attila the Hun. Nobody would dare try anything. We did inquire about getting a jammer installed, but we were told that we couldn't in case there were doctors on call, and because it stops microphone frequencies working. It's the same old problem; in the old days it was sweet wrappers, now it's phones.David JubbArtistic director, BACYou get a lot of phones going off in theatres where people have rushed straight from work and into the performance space and they haven't made the mental change from one thing to the other. Here at BAC, the way the space is laid out allows for an acclimatisation. You're more likely to remember to switch your phone off. Of course, it doesn't always happen. I remember one occasion when a woman's phone went off in the middle of a performance and it just didn't stop ringing. She fumbled for it in her bag and couldn't find it, but as soon as she opened her bag the noise became louder. Eventually, she was so embarrassed she just threw her bag into the aisle and threw herself on top of it. It was a piece of theatre in itself - in fact, rather more memorable than what was happening on stage.Cathy MarstonChoreographerI think it's obvious that people should be prevented from allowing their mobile phones to go off during performances. It's incredibly distracting for the performers. As an audience member, I also find it irritating when people have their phones on vibrate; you can still hear that buzz. Introducing a blocking system would prevent that.Steven LuckieProducer/director and writerThere is nothing worse than having spent weeks in the rehearsal room and then, at a crucial and delicate moment, someone's phone goes off and they answer it. But if you want to lure young and culturally diverse audiences into the theatre you've got to have a level of tolerance, because often they just don't know the protocol of theatre. When I produced Little Sweet Thing, youngsters would sit in the audience texting and taking photos throughout, and afterwards they'd say how much they loved the show. It's a different way of participating. They are not being disrespectful, they are just so connected to their mobile phones.
I've just spent a beautifully sunny Seattle day atMicrosoft's TechFest 07, which is designed to show off some of the projects under way at Microsoft Research to Microsoft's own developers in Redmond. It is intended to be a "technology transfer" event, and it's needed because Microsoft now has research labs in distant lands such as Cambridge, Beijing, Bangalore and Silicon Valley.For some reason, Microsoft also decided to invite 75 journalists from all over the world -- I've been chatting to people from Australia, India, Italy and Moscow, to name but a few. It was also a delight to meetTodd Bishopfrom the Seattle-PI newspaper, and former Microsoft geek bloggerRobert Scoble.Monkeybiteson the Wired Blog Network has some useful coverage of a few of the exhibits -- including many of the British ones (Time Mill, Shoebox, Text2Paper, Bubbleboard, Postcard). It seemed like half the Cambridge team was there, includingAndy HerbertandKen Wood.Andy Wilsonfrom Redmond also put on a good show with Zune Buggy and other things. Zune Buggy is a game idea a bit like MicroMachines, except that you can drive a "virtual car" that is projected onto a table top, as well as displayed on a screen. You can make the table top a bit more interesting by putting some paper "scenery" on it, and drive the car up and down these. Someone put a hand on the table, and Wilson drove the car over his hand an half way up his arm. Don't expect this kind of thing in the shops any time soon.....One of the best displays of something you can actually use was of thePersonal SkyServer, which is a lot like Virtual Earth, except it maps the universe. Keep zooming in on a galaxy such as M106 and you see some amazing things -- thanks to pictures from the Hubble telescope.On a sad note, the SkyServer site says "Send mail to Gray@Microsoft.com to be added to the Personal SkyServer Updates mailing list." Jim Gray, a Turing award winner,sailed out of San Francisco aloneon his 40-foot yacht in January, and has not been seen since.
I've given up email. Well, almost. At the weekend I set up one of those auto-reply messages, informing my correspondents that I would no longer be checking my emails, and that instead they might like to call or write, as we used to in the olden days.Over the past few months, I had found myself becoming wedded to my computer in a worrying fashion. Deleting 200 spams a day is a drag. And I was checking my email constantly, rather than getting on with my real work, which is reading and writing. Email was becoming a distraction, a burden rather than a liberation. I also wondered whether some of my business might have been more quickly and enjoyably sorted out with one phone call rather than five emails.The reaction from friends has been mixed. I've had a couple of very pleasant phone conversations with friends I hadn't actually spoken to for two years. Others have accused me of "going underground" or being a Luddite. But to those doubters I point out that I still have a phone number and address, so I can hardly be accused of vanishing into a hermitage.We have to wonder whether digital technology, rather than making it easier to communicate, is actually doing the opposite. We now sit alone at a keyboard, firing off zeros and ones into the ether. Offices are silent. "Everybody's talking, but no one says a word," as Lennon had it.Alongside my "no email" policy, I resolve to make better use of the wonderful Royal Mail, and send letters and postcards to people. There is a huge pleasure in writing a letter, putting it in an envelope and sticking the stamp on it. And huge pleasure in receiving real letters, too.So far, so good. My life has not crumbled away. I have not disappeared off the face of the earth. And I feel a whole lot less hassled. Finally, I should admit that I chickened out of going the whole hog and have set up an emergency email addresss for filing journalism. Well, best not to get fundamentalist about these things.&#183;Tom Hodgkinson is the editor of The Idler.
Probably a coincidence, but Andy Plesser of Beet.tv hasa text and video exclusive, based on an interview with Jim Kathman, head of global broadcast strategy at the Associated Press.The story says that "One year ago, Microsoft and The Associated press launched the Online Video Network, a distribution platform for the video clips created by the Associated Press television unit." It will stream "about 7.5 million clips this month". Now it's extending it.The program currently in beta involves a much bigger pie: it's the 7,000 newspapers, television and radio stations that are affiliated with the Associated Press and who will create their own content, locally. The clips will be staff and user-generated video.The AP projects that as many as 50 percent of affiliates, or some 3,500 local news organizations, will eventually participate in the new video program.For the nation's 1000 television stations, many of which have news gathering operations, the opportunity to publish and monetize video is immediate. For 1500 newspapers and 4500 local radio stations, whose staffs produce very little video right now, the opportunity will be a little bit further off. It could be that the most immediate opportunity for newspapers and radio stations will be user-generated content. We'll have to see.Plesser's interview is shown via Google Video....
Microsoft lawyer Thomas C Rubin duly delivered his speech on copyright (Searching for Principles: Online Services and Intellectual Property) at the Association of American Publishers annual meeting, and you can read the full texthere.Andas Bobbie reported earlier, this did include an attack on Google. The main one was on Google's Book Search project, but Rubin also covered Google advertising for pirate sites, and copyright violations on YouTube.In one sense, there isn't anything surprising about this: Rubin was simply preaching to the choir. The Association of American Publishers -- the audience --filed a lawsuit against Google in 2005, following legal action by the Authors Guild. As CNet reported at the time:"The publishing industry is united behind this lawsuit against Google and united in the fight to defend their rights," AAP President and former Colorado Congresswoman Patricia Schroeder said in a statement. "While authors and publishers know how useful Google's search engine can be and think the Print Library could be an excellent resource, the bottom line is that under its current plan, Google is seeking to make millions of dollars by freeloading on the talent and property of authors and publishers."Microsoft is also a member, with Yahoo and many others, of theOpen Content Alliance. This is doing the same as Google in digitising libraries, except that, unlike Google, it asks for permission first.In other words, it is absolutely clear that Google is trying to advance its own interests at the expense of the book publlishing industry. On the other hand, Microsoft is just as clearly trying to advance its own interests (it's a major content provider through Microsoft Books and things like Encarta, and a major supplier of digital rights management systems), and it's not even clear that Google is in the wrong.Google is not printing books and shipping them to Borders, and it's not even making electronic texts publicly available. That would be wrong. It's aim is to make books searchable, just the way it makes the web searchable. Sure, I think Googleshouldask permission, because printed books have no equivalent of a robots.txt file to say content should not be indexed. But even if the AAP wins in court and it is ruled illegal, it's still a good thing to do: it's not inherently evil.Google could have made the whole problem go away very easily, just by joining the community effort in the Open Content Alliance. This would also have cut out duplicate scanning and thus speeded up the whole digitisation processs. Google's arrogant decision to go it alone in the face of a hostile book trade is what has left it open to attack -- and for no good reason.Of course, joining the community effort would have meant Google had the same data as Yahoo and Microsoft. But Google already searches the same World Wide Web as Yahoo and Microsoft, and Google is winning that battle by miles. I think it would have won in book search, too.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
I was very sad when I heard that Chris Lightfoot, a young developer and energetic online campaigner, had died unexpectedly.Chris was heavily involved in some of the most pioneering grassroots work on the web in the UK, including WriteToThem, HearFromYourMP, PledgeBank, and had a particular interest in geographic services like Gaze, MaPit and DaDem - often the kind of stuff that we've mentioned in theFree Our Datacampaign.I met him a few times and was always impressed by his vivacity and enthusiasm. Tom Steinberg of MySociety, where a lot of Chris's best work was fashioned, says a little about his achievements inthis post:Chris was perhaps the pre-eminent example so far of what polymath means in the Internet age. His contributions to the world are more than just a formidable legacy of computer code of the very highest quality, for mySociety and many others. They also include substantial contributions to applied statistics, geographic information systems, economics and a range of public policy issues from identity cards to speed cameras.Everything Chris did in these fields combined an incredulity-inducing array of technical and analytical skills with a wickedly funny, savage turn of phrase. To understand what a remarkable intellectual outlier he was, simply sift through his blog and marvel at the quantity of primary research and original coding that went into it. Documenting and exploring his work would provide material for many years of research, and yet all this was accomplished by the age of 28.Anyone who wants to leave condolences can do so over onhis blog.
This morning's FT carries the story that Microsoft will this afternoon make a speech to American publishersattacking Google's "cavalier" attitude to copyright. The story carries quotes from a forthcoming speech from Tom Rubin, a senior lawyer at Redmond:Tom Rubin... will say in a speech in New York that while authors and publishers find it hard to cover costs, "companies that create no content of their own, and make money solely on the back of other people's content, are raking in billions through advertising and initial public offerings".Mr Rubin will tell the AAP's annual meeting that Google's decision to take digital copies of all books in various library collections, unless publishers tell it not to, "systematically violates copyright, deprives authors and publishers of an important avenue for monetising their works and, in doing so, undermines incentives to create".MS clearly feels it's a good time to strike out at Google, which has been sending a lot of heat towards Seattle recently thanks to its dominance of the internet advertising market and web developments. With a number of people attacking Google on copyright already - TV companies, book publishers and Belgian newspaper groups among them - Microsoft probably hopes it can gain a sympathetic ear from content owners looking for another option.
I haven't done one of these for ages, but I'm leaving on a jet plane tomorrow so will be packing my Nokia N73 with games. Seems like a good excuse to run through what's available at the moment for those who don't physically recoil at the site of a Java app, as though it were about to spit venom into their eyes.Without doubt the mobile game youneedto try this month isOrcs &amp; Elvesfrom EA. Developed byFoutainheadand produced by Id, it's in the same style as last year's Doom RPG: a first-person viewed adventure title reminiscent of old skool RPGs likeDungeon Master. Movement is confined to left, right, forward and backwards, which will be frustrating at first. But then, if you have a nostalgic bone in your body, you just sink into exploring the Dwarven fortress, picking up new weapons adding HPs and APs and battling trolls.The visuals are sub-Amiga, but that's partly the point. This is an unapologetically retro title, feasting on half-remembered classics from the 8bit era. I love the fact that all the characters talk in faux Middle English, that the monsters could all have walked from AD&amp;D, that the dungeons combine the visual cliches of sword and sorcery romps with hints at early 3D FPS titles. This game resembles Doom as much as anything else - especially in the endless need to pick up keys to open colour-coded doors, and the mass of secret areas. A real pleasure.The mobile version ofPhoenix Wrightis finally out in the UK. It's a very good conversion of the first four cases from the DS title - except, here, Capcom will be delivering each case separately in an episodic launch. I've only tried the first case, but it transfers well to mobile, utilising as few keys as possible and maintaining all the clue-analysing, cross-examining components of the series. If you don't own a DS, but like the thought of a funny brain-teasing interactive courtroom drama, this is definitely worth a look.Eidos has a few irons in the mobile fire at the moment. The 3D version of Tomb Raider Legend is pretty impressive, featuring maybe Tomb Raider II-level visuals and another reasonably well-thought out control system - although running and shooting is a no-no. The company also has a mobile version of PSone platformer Pandemonium due out, plus a version of Championship Manager 2007. Whatever you think of the console versions of CM, the last mobile iteration was great - massively reduced in scope, but extremely playable and a great time-waster. Importantly, it returns to the foundations of the series, with the player doing a lot of the imaginative work for himself, interpreting what he likes from the basic stats.Gluis another busy publisher. It's re-inked a deal with Atari so games like Centipede will be coming to mobile. The company has also taken on some Sega titles including Total War, Wonder Boy and Football Manager - for the latter though, don't expect a full-on management sim, it's just a footie quiz title, although quite a nice one. Glu has also just released a very good mobile translation of Project Gotham Racing.There's plenty more. The Finnish developerMr Goodlivingis about to release a colourful parkour sim entitled Playman Extreme Running - its titles are always beautifully produced with simple controls and nice 2D visuals.IPlayhas the daft looking Pillow Fight out in May, which is more or less self-explanatory. It's sort of Punch Out meets DoA in blocky 2D. With bedroom furnishings. That's the thing about mobile games - you can still get away with ideas like that.
Phil Harrison, Sony's President of Worldwide Studios, has admitted in aNewsweekinterview that the company made serious errors in the eary days of the PS3 pre-marketing campaign:"We did a very bad job between E3 2006 and the media event in October. [It's] something which in hindsight I wished we had done - but that's 20/20 vision. I wished we had released a movie showing the Xross Media Bar in action to the web after E3 2006. Not maybe showing every single feature, but just to give people something to chew on."Later, he suggests that what Sonyshouldhave done at its press event was to actually show journalists the wider functionality of the machine: "Here's the photo mode viewer. Here's the music player. Here's the Blu-Ray player. Here's the network functionality. Here's the Web browser."Certainly that would have helped. Keeping the network functionality a secret for so long has been especially harmful, allowing critics to claim Sony has no service in place. Of course, what Harrisondoesn'tapproach are the other PR disasters - the promise of a worldwide launch, the lack of hardware available at the US and Japanese roll-outs, etc. Although, really, he's more a content man - we'd be looking at SCE head Kaz Hirai for that kind of admission.Whatever, it's interesting, in the run up to Harrison's GDC keynote taking place tomorrow, that he's preparing to address the criticisms Sony has faced. Let's hope, however, that what he has to say is more about thecontentwe can expect in the future, rather than dwell on the marketing mistakes of the past.You can read more of the interviewhere.And on the subject of GDC...Sony hasannouncedthat Harrison's talk - entitled 'Game 3.0: Developing and Creating for the 3rd Age of Videogames' will focus on, "the key components of Game 3.0 - community, user-generated content, collaboration and commerce - all highlighted through live demonstrations of previously un-announced services and games for PS3".Meanwhile, someone on the neoseeker.com forums has postedalleged leaked details from the keynote.UPDATE: These have been widely discredited so please bear that in mind.The post suggests a new firmware update (set to be installed in UK machines before launch) will form the centrepiece of Harrison's musing. New functionalitymayinclude:More refined PS Store frontend. Playstation Network integrity enhanced. Wallpapers from pictures. Ability to change background colours. Sony Connect Store for music and movies added to the PS Store. Hundreds of trailers/full films/song videos and mps3's available for download. Playstation Card option in PS Store enabled. Playstation Lifestyle- Similar to my space/youtube. User generated content and experiences are the key.Other sources suggest, Sony may be working on an avatar and online rewards system to compete with Wii's Mii system and Xbox's achievement points. Morehere.
TheNational Institutes of Mental Health(NIMH) have reported on a recent publication in the American Journal of Psychiatry in which computer games were used to pinpoint maladaptations in brain development.Depressed people performed worse on tasks in a game developed at the University College London than the healthy participants in a control group. The puzzles and problems in the software were designed to assess processes which take place in the hippocampus region of the brain, which is used in spatial navigation and memory. The research built on previous suggestion that people with mood disorders may have smaller hippocampi, and the results indicate that this region may not be functioning properly in people with depression.From the release:Previously, the scientists had given the same people a two-dimensional memory test traditionally used in such studies, in which they were asked to remember the locations of objects on a computer screen -- similar to what they would have seen on paper. This two-dimensional test was not able to detect differences in spatial memory that the new video game was able to detect. The reason, Gould suggests, is that the virtual-reality, three-dimensional aspects of the video game engage areas of the hippocampus that the two-dimensional test does not.Thus, the video game is a more revealing measure of spatial memory and a more sensitive measure of hippocampal dysfunction -- a more powerful tool for exploring the link between the hippocampus and depression. It may one day be a tool for detecting hippocampus deficits in depressed patients.
California is at the heart of some of the world's biggest industries, with Hollywood and Silicon Valley becoming eponymous for the great movie and computing industries. But when it comes to Fortune magazine's annual list ofAmerica's most admired companies, only two of the top 20 are from California. Trumping that, the relatively small and generally wet town of Seattle, where I happen to be at the moment, has four.It's pretty easy to guess the Californian entries: Google and Apple. Nailing Seattle's favoured foursome is a touch trickier. OK, you probably guessed Microsoft and Starbucks, but how about the other two? Nordstrom and Costco. (Yes, I guessed Amazon, too. But if you guessed Boeing, it moved to Chicago....)However, if you are the boss of a leading Californian company such as Intel, Hewlett-Packard, Cisco, AMD, Qualcomm, Seagate, Adobe, Yahoo or eBay, or an old stager such as Walt Disney, Levi Strauss or Wells Fargo, you may be wondering if this whole exercise has much basis in reality.Well, it does, but not much. According to Fortune, it asked "3,322 executives, directors, and securities analysts" to name their top 10 companies, so it's just a popularity poll, on a par with Most Popular Girl In Class. The pseudo-scientific rankings for nebulous things like innovation, People management and Use of corporate assets have nothing to do with it.As Fortune says:It's no coincidence that the top three companies on the list are among the most vocal about how green they are. Starbucks gets extra points for jumping on the bandwagon long ago. For years now the company has paid fair-market prices to Third World coffee farmers and helped develop ecologically sound growing practices. Starbucks is also a regular on Fortune's annual list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For. It's green, it's humane, it's politically correct, it sells a popular product and provides a comfy place to hang out and consume same -- what's not to like?A harmless bit of fun, then, dressed up as something more serious. Andgreatlinkbait....
I love Call of Duty, so like any right-minded fan, I was worried about the prospect of a PSP conversion. Sony's handheld hasn't exactly proven a great venue for FPS titles, the dodgy analogue controls and lack of buttons crippling many a shooter. So I got some questions to Alex Pantelias, producer of Call of Duty: Roads to Victory - a PSP exclusive rendition of the series, developed byAmazeand due out later this month. Here's what he has to say...What were the key considerations when moving the COD experience to the PSP? How does the restricted size of the screen immediately alter the gameplay?The smaller screen definitely played into our level designs. We wanted the player to be in the middle of a war, up close to the action. Doing expansive levels on the PSP usually means that everything appears very small, and we wanted to avoid the player shooting enemy pixels on the screen. This forced us to design more close combat situations, which show up well on the small screen. For instance, you are in the street with your tanks, or you are taking an enemy building, room by room. Things like this work better on the PSP screen than charging over a large open field at an entrenched enemy.What have you learned from the other WWII FPS titles on PSP?We looked at all shooters on the PSP, not just the WWII ones. We all played them to get a sense of what worked well with the various control schemes, and what didn't. This allowed us to avoid some mistakes without actually having to implement them and then test them, and then remove them. I think the most obvious thing that most other shooters on the PSP did was some kind of target assist. The trick was getting the game mechanics and controls to work so that the aim assist was subtle and an aid, not something that the player had to worry about or manipulate. Instead, we wanted the player to focus on finding proper cover, choosing how to attack the entrenched enemies, and careful timing of when to move up or rush. This coupled with the skill of targeting enemies with ADS (Aim Down Sights) at range works really well for Roads To Victory.Obviously, on PSP, you don't have scope to include the usual masses of allied troops, which is a signature of the COD series - how have you worked around that?From early on in development, Activision was clear that the game had to feature allied troops. We didn't want to make a game where you were one soldier against the entire Nazi army. As you point out, we couldn't have a mass of allies, so we simply designed the game so that anywhere between one and three allies were with you for most of the game. If one of the allies dies, another will eventually take his place. In this manner we were able to keep the dynamic of fighting along your allies without over-stepping our character budgets. There are times, on Veteran difficulty, when it makes sense for your allies to tackle the most well entrenched enemy troops before moving in to the line of fire yourself.The control system has often proved a stumbling block for this genre on PSP - often game designers not only fail to take the limitations into account when designing the controls, they also ignore them when designing the gameplay. How have you addressed this issue?There's no doubt that the controls on the PSP provide a major challenge to making a FPS. I think the main thing the lack of the second analog stick does is force some kind of aim assist to be present in the controls. Therefore, you have to start thinking about your design differently. Traditionally, a FPS presents situations to the player where the ability to aim quickly allows for success. Due to the aim assist on the PSP, you have to rethink that dynamic, and invent a new dynamic for success and failure. Call of Duty has always been a realistic type of WWII game, so we decided to design the game in a way that punished a player who tried to run and gun without thought to strategy, cover, or ally positions. In this way, we rely less on actual twitch aiming skills, and more on decisions the player makes in the heat of battle.The nice thing is that when you do find good cover, and get in position to engage the enemy, you can then switch to using ADS mode which does not have the target assist, and that becomes more about how quickly and accurately you can aim and shoot down your enemies. So we don't necessarily lose the twitch element of the gameplay.Which missions are you most pleased with and why?I think the US missions are the strongest. They were the ones we designed first and therefore the ones we had most time to iterate on. The US missions have a nice pacing to them. You start out in Altavilla, Italy, where the fighting is fierce, but as the tutorial level, you can get through the level fairly easily. You get to do cool things though, like snipe Nazis and call in air-strikes on Panzer tanks. Then you shift to a chaotic beginning in the next level where you have to defend your position against an onslaught of ground troops. This leads to a night level called Glider Crash where you and your squad have landed in enemy territory and need to regroup. It's certainly creepy at times, and when the skies open up with gunfire, it is very dramatic. This then leads to a level where you are in a bomber and you need to protect your planes against the might of the Luftwaffe.How did you select the scenarios for this iteration of the series? Do you pour through history books to find encounters that match the sort of gameplay you have in mind, or do you find an interesting battle/campaign and create missions and objectives around that?We started with straight up research. The designers all picked what they thought were the most dramatic moments of the war. We had a ton of ideas. Then we wanted to try to do missions that had not been done before, so the player could experience new scenarios. Once we had that list, we started to whittle down the level ideas that were the best and also fit with other level ideas so that there would be a cohesive story to be told. In the end, I think the game covers a lot of interesting battles that have a colourful history many may not know about.Once we had our level list, then we started to pull out the moments in those battles that would translate into good gameplay. This was not an easy task as sometimes real life battles featured a lot of retreating, which doesn't necessarily translate into compelling gameplay; so, we had to pick our moments carefully.Can players expect new weapons and/or challenges in this version?I think that all the weapons had at least a cameo appearance in various other CoD games over the years. You will see a lot of the main favorites in this game as well, such as the Thompson, the MP40, The MP44, the Garand, and the BAR.The main difference in challenge that you will notice with Roads to Victory is that the combat takes place in close quarters. You don't have a lot of time to sit back and assess, and you are constantly under a lot of pressure. Some of the things you need to do to succeed are blow up enemy tanks using panzershrecks, protect allies as they move to set a charge, defend positions, take entrenched positions, eliminate flak guns, blow up enemy buildings with explosives, retrieve enemy intelligence, call in artillery strikes and mortar rounds, and protect your tanks from enemy panzershrecks.
"The Patent and Trademark Office is starting a pilot project that will not only post patent applications on the Web and invite comments but also use a community rating system designed to push the most respected comments to the top of the file, for serious consideration by the agency's examiners. A first for the federal government, the system resembles the one used by Wikipedia, the popular user-created online encyclopedia," reportsThe Washington Post, apparently confusing Wikipedia with Digg or whatever.The project, scheduled to begin in the spring, evolved out of a meeting between IBM, the top recipient of U.S. patents for 14 years in a row, and New York Law School Professor Beth Noveck. Noveck called the initiative "revolutionary" and said it will bring about "the first major change to our patent examination system since the 19th century."In other words, this is thePeer to Patent Project, co-sponsored by CA, GE, HP, IBM, Microsoft, Red Hat and the genius-granting MacArthur Foundation.Later, it says:Brigid Quinn, a spokeswoman for the patent office, said the program will begin with about 250 applications from the realm of software design, where it is especially difficult for examiners to find related documentation. Unlike specialists in many other fields, software designers often forgo publishing their innovations in technical journals and elsewhere.With luck, the system could reduce the number of patents granted for wheels, perpetual motion machines,ladder rankings for gamesandbrowser plug in systems, although it's not quite as sensible as banning software patents altogether. It could also add to thegeneral gaietyof nations.
The Windows Vista brute force crack -mentioned last week by Jack- has turned out to be less successful than first thought.AtThe Register, we hear how things changed.Over the weekend, however, the author of the package has stepped forward to say these people must be either mistaken or telling porkies because the program is ineffective."The brute force keygen is a joke. I never intended for it to work. I have never gotten it to work. Everyone should stop using it," the anonymous coder said on apostto the Keznews forum.However just as that keygen attack has turned into dust, reports have been coming through about other apparent loopholes that can be used to pirate the new operating system. According toAPC Magazineit involves a system that allows some manufacturers to embed a copy of Vista into their systems that doesn't require the same sort of activation."It allows the "Royalty OEMs" to embed specific licensing information into the operating system which Vista can activate without having to go back to Microsoft for verification [...] For example, you can install the ASUS certificate information on any machine, not just an ASUS.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Over atSilicon Valley Watcher, Tom Foremski wonders if search is damaged in ways we rarely recognise.With the regular trumpeting of complex search algorithms, how comes engines need people to do the first layer of interpretation or action he asks. After all Google's mathematics filters information, but he points to tagging, nofollows, robots.txt, pings, blogs and linking as examples of the way people create the content and metadata that's used by search engines - rather than the idea of it happening the other way around.If the search engines are so great at doing what they do, then how come we have to do all of the above?I resent the fact that I have to create all this content describing my content--the search engines should be creating this "metadata."I just want to write stuff, and leave it up to the search engines to find it, classify it, index it, and do all the other things their mythology suggests that they do.Really, then, he's not arguing that search isbroken, but that it never worked the way we wanted it to in the first place.I've often pondered why we have to spend so much time giving machines information about what we're doing before they can decide what to do with the information. Mostly I think about it because I'm lazy: I like creating, but I don't like organising and categorising the things I create. So that's what I want my software to do; step in and understand everything I implicitly recognise without me having to underline it.Essentially, though, this is about the next wave of artificial intelligences - understanding what we want, not just interpreting.
The spin bods at Rockstar are jumping into overdrive with the announcement (viaMCV) that atrailerfor the next installment of their American culturesimulatoraction series Grand Theft Auto will be released later this month. It's expected thatGTA IVwill arrive on the PS3 and the Xbox 360 sometime this year, suggestions fuelled by a report that the anticipated episodic content will not be available for download until 2008.A trailer? Well, it's generated inches here, anyway.According to speculations onWikipedia, that bastion of user-generated knowledge, the franchise's setting may return to the UK. Whether this wild hope is realised or not, GTA will continue to reflect cultural norms of our North American player-relatives. Ironic for a company based in Scotland.Now, a GTA set in the streets of Glasgow. That would be bloomin' brilliant.More information as anything substantial becomes available.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
With theGame Developers Conference (GDC)in full swing expect plenty of announcements this week. And some of them will be interesting too. Take the news that Xbox Live Arcade games will have their size increased from 50MB to 150MB. According to Microsoft this will give, "developers greater flexibility in game design and expanding the opportunity to add advanced game features while still keeping games compact." The last point is crucial. The Live games work so well because they are tight, focussed and don't need instructions. This makes them perfect wind-down fodder after a heavy game of Oblivion or GRAW. As long as developers remember this then this has to be good news - too many of the Arcade games are relatively lazy retro conversions (Paperboy) or good ideas (Small Arms) stunted by lack of variety. And let's face it, if this news helps the Live version of Sensible World of Soccer get here any quicker - currently due for "this summer" - then I'm all for it.Microsoft have also announced a 512MB memory unit for the 360 - the current one is 64mb - which will allow you to transport saves, gamer profile and the rest. No, I'm not bothered either. But bigger Live Arcade games? Yes please.
Sometimes there's a problem when a service running under svchost.exe grabs 100% of the processor (Two programs are hogging my processor, below). This can get people to investigate the whole services area, where they would not normally venture....Microsoft provides a program to control Windows Services. To run it, go to Start|Programs|Administrative Tools and select Services. This lists all the services, tells you what they do, and tells you their status.Select a service and double click it. This pops up a properties sheet. Around the middle is an entry that saysStartup type. Click the drop-down arrow and this enables you to select Automatic, Manual or Disabled for that service.You can do a lot of damage this way ;-)The Elder Geek has a good account of the system in itsServices Guide for Windows XP.
USA Today's web site has been redesigned, but more than that, it has incorporated a lot of social features -- including reader blogs. AnEditor's noteon the site says:With the new features we've introduced on the site, readers will have the ability to: Scan other news sources directly on USATODAY.com;  See how readers are reacting to stories;  Recommend stories and comments to other readers;  Comment directly on stories;  Participate in discussion forums;  Write reviews (of movies, music and more);  Contribute photos;  Better communicate with USA TODAY staff.TheQuick guide to new USATODAY.com featuresgives examples. Instead of having your name on each page -- pretty common on sites where you log in -- USA Today provides space for an icon, which it calls an Avatar. "That's where you'll be notified of messages left by other readers. Make yourself at home. Upload a picture of yourself, a funny icon, or choose from our selection of ready-made avatars."Which is where "reader spaces" come in. The site says:When you become a member, we automatically establish a personal profile page. As you interact with the USA TODAY community, your comments, recommendations and other contributions are automatically appended to your page. Your profile page includes a place for you to upload photos, write a blog, and the ability to send messages to other users. These pages allow readers to get a better sense of the site's most active contributors.I'm not sure any of these ideas is really new -- at least one has been proposed and, as far as I know, rejected for the Guardian Unlimited redesign -- but at a first short glance, USA Today seems to have put together a pretty good package based on the Web 2.0 zeitgeist.Any regular users out this with a deeper view?The other issue, of course, is that even now hundreds of diggers and SEOs (search engine optimisers) and other assorted riff-raff types are working on ways to game the system....
One Tip A Day has updated its list ofFree Ways To Watch Free TV Online. It includesSopcast, a peer-to-peer system, as an "Easy way to watch international football including English Premier League". Anyone tried it?
Vauxhall Corsa&pound;11,915Miles per gallon:49Seats:5Good for:ScoringBad for:SnoringHere's a fact that in these post-Stern report days will cause your blood to run, if not cold, then a little tepid: every minute around the world 78 new cars are manufactured. On the other hand, in that same minute, 192 new bicycles are made. And with more bikes than ever now being sold in the UK and many local councils advocating the use of cycles round town, Corsa has decided to get in on the act. The latest version of the ubiquitous supermini from Vauxhall comes complete with a rear-end bike carrier. It's an ingenious permanent attachment which pulls out of the rear bumper like a drawer to become a nifty shelf for you to transport one or two bikes on.Anyone who has ever tied themselves in knots, suffered broken nails and bungee lashes, and gashed their paintwork by trying to strap one of those fiendish collapsing multi-armed cycle carriers to the back of their car will know how welcome such a gizmo is. The only drawback to the rack was articulated by my 10-year-old son. He wondered if it was possible to sit on the bike while it was on the rack and to then be driven at high speed. I said no and was then accused of being 'boring, stressy, and old'.With that insult he nailed what has always been the essence of the Corsa. For decades, the reliably dull Vauxhall has been the down-sized car of choice for the Saga generation - but that vehicle has now been superannuated by General Motors, and replaced by a young, fun-loving, up-for-it, go-anywhere motor for the Heat generation. So much so that What Car? has just named it Car of the Year for 2007, an award for which it had to beat off 3,621 contenders - so no mean feat.In creating the new model, GM has simply miniaturised the clean coupe-esque lines and large, elegantly raked headlamps of the Corsa's bigger sister, the Astra. You could easily mistake a Corsa for a petite Astra.Once tempted inside, the youthful Heat reader will find its interior simple and unchallenging, with a dash of bad taste - just like Heat, in fact. The layout is clean and unfussy, the materials durable and tactile. There's a large central console where everything from aircon to stereo is marshalled. The dash, unfortunately, glows a sickly orange - think Dale Winton in the off season. But then, maybe this is the hue du jour for the twentysomething motorist. There are plenty of nice touches to more than make up for that, though. There's the MP3-compatible stereo, complete with a useful dock and controls mounted on the steering wheel; there's more leg space in the back; and multiple storage areas include front-door pockets, underseat trays and a fold-away shelf in the boot. It's perky and economical to drive - the diesel version delivers a wallet-calming 55 miles to the gallon.And if you get bored, they've even built in a game. It's called Hunt the Shark. At an early stage of the Corsa's development, a designer was dared to work an image of a shark into the interior. Can you spot it? (Here's a clue: it's in the glove compartment.)&#183;martin.love@observer.co.uk
You've got mail - and it stinks. Within a decade the internet will be able to deliver smells directly to your inbox, enabling you to send a romantic message complete with the fragrance of flowers.This is the prediction of the best technology brains in South Korea, a country boasting widespread high-speed mobile networks and the highest broadband penetration in the world.By 2015, a report commissioned by the South Korean government has predicted, individual scents will be defined as digital data, broken down into a series of aromatic compounds. The data will travel through the internet and activate a fragrance cartridge sitting next to a computer or another device connected online.Amorous 'smellmail' could deliver the scent of aftershave or perfume, for example, while a restaurant invitation could bring the whiff of cooking.Sony Ericsson has already launched a handset that releases a faint smell as it is used. The report suggests that by 2012 mobile phone batteries will last perhaps two months between recharges. And by 2015 soldiers will wear bulletproof and waterproof battle dress that can change its appearance to match surroundings.
A recent study conducted in New York among 21 junior doctors revealed that those who were or had at one time been regular videogame players performed palpably better in surgical procedures, especially keyhole surgery, requiring, as it does, subtle manoeuvres with a joystick based on feedback from a monitor. Regular gamers were found to be 27% faster and made 37% fewer errors than their luddite colleagues, while those who played even more made 47% fewer errors and clocked in at a massive 49% faster. While it's unlikely that medical school will be replaced with a series of massive networked Halo 2 tournaments in the near future, the study adds another credible piece of evidence to the argument that, far from being harmful, playing videogames can actually confer a range of benefits beyond the pleasant passing of free time.
Mario Vs Donkey Kong 2: March Of The MinisNintendo DSSequel to perhaps the best puzzle game ever released for Game Boy Advance, Mario Vs Donkey Kong 2 has you steering Nintendo's handyman mascot and his tiny mechanical clones through a progressively more testing set of physical puzzles. What makes this great is the exquisite balance of dexterity and mental acuity needed to complete each level, and also Nintendo's trademark attention to detail, making controlling the characters a source of satisfaction in itself. Separated into perfect bitesized chunks ideal for short journeys - or the reduced attention span associated with being on a beach should you be a fan of winter sun - this is handheld entertainment at its most rewarding and another example of why the DS has been so successful while the software-lite PSP continues its nosedive towards obscurity.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;29.99Excite TruckWiiHeir to a tradition stretching back as far as the splendid 8-bit Excitebike, Excite Truck's heritage is seat-of-the-pants stunt racing - something this version delivers in bulk. Holding the Wii-remote horizontally, you control it by tilting it in a vaguely steering wheel-like way. Unfortunately, trying to couple this movement with using the button combinations to accelerate and trigger your car's nitrous oxide boost provides an all too real insight into what life would be like if you swapped forearms with an 85-year-old. Compassion is just one of Excite Truck's gifts, however, the other being adrenaline dispensed by tracks that encourage near constant use of turbo - tilting the controller backwards for bigger jumps and even deeper mashing of the tendons and tiny bones that make up your fragile wrists. Excite Truck is fun, but not of the enduring variety.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;40
Harry Enfield, Doctor Who and David Attenborough officially embraced the YouTube age yesterday as the BBC unveiled a deal with the popular video sharing site to make available clips of its programmes and other exclusive content.The announcement, the latest step in the BBC's plan to reposition itself for the on demand digital world and staunch the flow of younger viewers away from its programmes, will see the creation of branded channnels on YouTube.But it could raise criticisms from those who fear the drive to distribute BBC shows in new ways will lead to creeping commercialisation, as well as from fans of YouTube who feel the service's DIY ethos has been dulled since selling to Google.At launch, the YouTube offering will include a general BBC channel featuring promotional clips including Enfield's forthcoming sketch show as well as specially created video diaries from the likes of Tennant and John Simm on the sets of Doctor Who and Life on Mars.When the BBC launches its long awaited digital iPlayer later this year, which will offer access to any show from the previous seven days, the clips will link through to full downloads of the programmes.A separate channel will show content from commercial arm BBC Worldwide, with clips from Top Gear, The Catherine Tate Show, and David Attenborough documentaries. The BBC said it would include a "limited amount" of advertising.The hope is that fans will generate interest by sharing the clips and flagging them up on YouTube. BBC director general Mark Thompson said YouTube was a "key gateway through which to engage new audiences in the UK and abroad".
"Apple Inc.'s install base of Mac OS X users will be approximately 22 million strong come the end of March, ahead of the company's next-generation Leopard operating system release, according to analysts at Bank of America Securities," reportsApple Insider.The figure is up by 6 million users since the Mac maker unwrapped its last major revision to the Mac operating system, Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger, back in June of 2005, analyst Keith Bachman told clients in research distributed earlier this week.What the story doesn't ask is whether this will be more than Windows Vista. Windows ships roughly 20 million copies a month, but I'd assume a lot of people are still getting Windows XP. Also, although tens of millions of corporate users have "paid for" Vista (they get free upgrades under software assurance contracts), I'd guess very few have installed it. Corporate IT departments are notoriously slow, and I gather one UK newspaper is only just rolling out Windows XP.
