A lot - although exactly how much is still not clear. The question is becoming a hot topic, not least thanks to aGuardian reportin which senior officials voiced concerns over the growing financial and environmental cost of powering vast internet data centres as it expands.But the energy footprint of the entire internet is much more than data centres - it includes the devices we consume the internet on (computers, mobile phones, iPods and more) as well as the telephone exchanges that deliver information.Given this wide variety of places where energy is spent, there are few clear-cut studies that show how much the internet as a whole consumes. The lack of clarity has caused confusion and irked some industry bigwigs, in particular Google. The company's latest word on the subject came in a post on Google's official blog, where Urs H&ouml;lzle - the internet giant's senior vice-president of operations - took pains to point out (again) that the energy cost of conducting an online search was very small, producing 0.2g of carbon per search.H&ouml;lzle also suggested that the efficiencies afforded by networking technologies - faster communications, fewer trips made by car, more productive working - far outweigh the energy footprint of the internet itself. "After all," he wrote, "It's much more efficient to move electrons than to move atoms. 'Virtual' tools such as email, video-conferencing and search engines replace more carbon-intensive activities such as snail mail, business travel, and driving."Is that accurate? Possibly. Data on the potential energy savings that could be produced by hi-tech systems is patchy, with the clearest possible outline published in a report released last summer by the Climate Group, which consists of 40 corporations and numerous local and national governments. The paper - which focuses on CO2, not energy - suggests that, by 2020, the internet's footprint will have tripled to 1.43bn tonnes of carbon emitted per year, largely thanks to increasing use of PCs and mobile phones, and driven by exploding economies such as China and India. However, it also suggests that improvements made possible by information technology - such as smart logistics, energy-aware buildings and more efficient energy grids - could reduce emissions by 15% overall.However, those savings are contingent on a host of new systems being used in businesses, homes and products around the world. Trumpeting such benefits is something energy experts have expressed scepticism about, although they agree that if such change is achieved, the benefits could be significant.Perhaps the place to start is in making the numbers more clear. The inventor Saul Griffith certainly believes so. "Galileo said, 'measure what it measurable and make measurable what is unmeasurable'," he told the Guardian. "Part of the reason humanity is in the situation it is with climate change is that we weren't measuring how we were using energy and understanding the consequences."
Shifting Ordnance Survey to a "free data" model would cost the UK government between &pound;500m and &pound;1bn in the first five years of its implementation, according to its new chairman, Sir Rob Margetts, quoting an internal study carried out by the organisation ahead of the budget.The Guardian has challenged Iain Wright, the minister in charge of OS, to order the publication of the study - which Sir Rob told a London audience earlier this week had looked at other organisations around the world using the "free" model, and at all other possible funding models for the organisation - including privatisation and funding through charges on transactions, such as Land Registry or building alterations.Mr Wright said that he would have to check whether the internal studies contained any data that might be judged commercially confidential before he would push for it to be made public.Such a study - which contradicts the findings of the Free Our Data campaign and a study by a team of Cambridge economists that suggests a low-cost and substantial economic benefit - would be an important element in the debate about free data models. (The Guardian will seek its release via the Freedom of Information Act if Mr Wright declines to publish it.) The revelation came as OS expanded on its new commercial strategy, which includes a less-restrictive approach to its OpenSpace system, allowing users to surround maps with adverts or to have sponsored sites - though businesses will not be allowed to use OpenSpace.There will be no minimum royalty for use of OS online products for the first two years; previously, it was &pound;5,000, which many would-be developers felt was too expensive for ideas that might still be in development. Existing users of the OpenSpace API, which gives a Google Maps-style method of mapping with OS maps, have also seen data allowances expanded nearly 20-fold.• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
Tweets in spaceNasa astronaut Mark Polansky (@Astro_127) has invited people to send questions to the International Space Station using YouTube and Twitter.Virgin goes 200 MbpsVirgin Media says it will test a 200 Mbps broadband service with 100 "lead adopters" in Ashford, Kent.Phone opens doorsAustria's Sorex Wireless has developed the wirelessKey, which transforms almost any Bluetooth mobile into an electronic key.Windows 7 ready?Microsoft has released a beta test version of the Windows 7 Upgrade Advisor for those who want to test if their systems are compatible.Children and the mediaOfcom has published a brief guide to help parents and guardians manage children's access to TV and the net.Light sabrellaIt looks like an ordinary umbrella, but the shaft lights up. "Sure to scare off those evil Sith Lords," says Iwoot.Real-time ScooplerThe new Scoopler search engine offers "real-time search", covering sites such as Twitter, Flickr, Digg and Delicious.Open talkingRed Hat is holding its second annual open source forum in Westminster, London, on 16 June.
I was sitting by the bar at Etymotic Research's press conference when the audiologist Andy Shiach took out his syringe and filled my ears with blue gunk. Then I sat still while it set, ignoring the rude comments from people I could barely hear.Later, the postman delivered a small package containing two very oddly shaped lumps of transparent silicone from Advanced Communication Solutions Limited (ACS), of which Shiach is the founder and managing director.These were custom-fit eartips (&pound;90) for Etymotic's - hi-fi, hands-free - hf2 earphones (&pound;99.95).The hf2s are for owners of the Apple iPhone, BlackBerry Curve and similar music phones, and have a microphone on the cord, so that they can be used as a headset. Not having one of those, I tried them with my Sony MP3 players instead.The hf2s come with four different types of eartip in the box, so that you can experiment to find the best fit. Etymotic's earphones must fit tightly inside your ear canal. This means that you can use a lower volume setting, which helps protect your hearing, and also cuts out external noise.The optional moulded tips should be perfect because they fit your ear exactly. However, it takes a bit of trial and error to figure out how to get them in. I found that Elacin ear cream helped, although I could not quite get the left eartip to fit as snugly as the right.Etymotic includes a warning note that says: "If the eartips do not seal properly, there will be a loss of bass." Well, with the best seal that I could get, there was still a noticeable lack of bass, and the treble was much too shrill.The contrast with the Sony MDR-EX082 earbuds supplied with their superb NWZ-S639F Walkman MP3/MP4 player could hardly be more striking. They deliver tons of bass, although they are lacking in the treble - just the reverse of the hf2s.Although the Etymotic earbuds provided excellent stereo imaging and a lot of detail, the Sony's faults sounded nicer.Many people love Etymotic's earbuds, but it does point up the risk involved. If you buy a big pair of noise-cancelling headphones, you will get their best performance all the time. With an in-ear design, results can vary depending on how you put them in.Custom-moulded eartips do not preclude this problem, which I would have thought they would.If you get on well with cheap earbuds, and you are not into drum and bass, the hf2s could be a good upgrade. If not, then - like me - you may need a new pair of ears.Pros:Comfortable, potentially good sound qualityCons:Not cheap, fiddly, sound quality depends on fit, bass-lightEtymotic hf2 earphones
Harvard University professor George Whitesides is making very sophisticated litmus paper. Unlike the simple acid or alkali strips familiar from school, his pioneering work owes more to microfluidics than pH sensitive dyes. The development of cheap and simple paper diagnostics may now help revolutionise third-world medical testing.While everyone takes it for granted, paper is more than a surface for writing on. Its porosity can ensure that drops of liquid quickly spread out by capillary action or wicking.  As the capillary effect provides a useful free pump, a sample drop may be moved across the paper into test wells, reacting there to produce visible colour changes. "The basic idea of making channels and directing fluids - that was clearly a good idea," says Whitesides.By harnessing a photoresist technique, he created polymer-lined channels to direct and manipulate minute quantities of fluids. Chromotography paper is soaked with a light-sensitive polymer photoresist that hardens when exposed to UV light. This leaves walls inside the paper once the unexposed polymer is dissolved. "This photoresist technique is still the highest resolution we have for making channels in paper," he says.The stamp-sized paper devices are capable of being printed in high volumes. A single drop of blood can be channelled to different test wells containing reagents and results appear as simple colour changes, making it ideal for third world use. "I think it's going to be possible to do sophisticated biological chemistry and cell biology using these methods," says Whitesides, who has co-founded the non-profitDiagnostics for All, which plans to deploy paper-based liver-function tests in Africa.Dr Caje Moniz, the clinical director of clinical biochemistry at King's College Hospital, London, is responsible for a diagnostic blood sciences lab. From a 5ml sample, autoanalysers perform up to 40 tests. King's also runs Europe's largest liver transplant programme with patients travelling just to give blood to assess liver status. Dr Moniz says there are strip tests for cholesterol, urine, and pregnancy but not key liver enzymes. "Liver function might be a good one... the surgeons have been asking me: is there nothing we can do to get the result by post?"
Despite the thousands of column inches dedicated to it, swine flu has not spread as much as the rash of browser-based Flash games it has inspired. In its first week, the most high profile of them, Swinefighter, amassed more than 3m plays, helped by the viral clout of Twitter and Facebook.The game, created by the web entrepreneurs Immad Akhund and Jude Gomila to promote their company Heyzap, features a doctor wearing a surgical mask inoculating flying pigs with an oversized syringe.Using an existing game engine, the pair were able to put their idea into practice almost immediately. "We had the idea at 8pm on Monday and were finished by 6am the next morning," says Akhund. He claims they were conscious of the potential for offence, given that there have been deaths as a result of the outbreak. "A lot of games are about spreading the flu," he says, "We were careful not to do something like that. We wanted to keep the subject matter light and funny."Sombrero noteA league table on the game's website suggests its biggest source of visitors is Mexico. But Swine Flu: Hamdemic, from the Australian developers 3RDsense, may appeal less to those countrymen, featuring a sombrero-clad Mexican tossing pigs across the border using a giant slingshot.Colin Cardwell, the firm's chief executive, says its intention was humorous "It felt to us that the world was taking the whole thing a little too seriously."He draws a parallel between making topical games and more traditional humour. "We question everything," he says, "but it's like being a comedian. A lot of jokes come from quite a dark place."The ability to quickly pull together Flash games means they are frequently made in response to news stories. Recent events that have received the treatment include the conflict in Gaza (the supposedly satirical Raid Gaza!) and Somali pirates (Foxy Sniper Shoot).So far, the games inspired by swine flu are neither particularly shocking nor satirical. But several more realistic existing games have found themselves co-opted as commentaries on the situation. Sneeze - originally commissioned by the Wellcome Trust and Channel 4 as part of Routes, a series on genetics - illustrates how viruses spread. The game awards points for infecting as many people as possible with a single sneeze.But as result of the headlines, the American Flash games site Miniclip renamed the game as Stop Swine Flu. The new title was misleading and led to a New York Times story wondering how appropriate it was to get points for infecting children.Alice Taylor, a commissioning editor for education at Channel 4, has asked Miniclip to amend the details to restore the game's original educational message. "Sneeze is about how viruses spread," she says, "And knowing that children and older people are more susceptible to them is a good thing."Total wipeoutPandemic 2, a darker take on viral epidemics, has received a more welcome dose of attention. Though released last year, the number of players has soared in recent weeks. The aim is to engineer a virus that wipes out humanity.The game's creator, Dan Archibald, of Dark Realm Studios, says developers should be allowed to tackle controversial themes: "I have no issue including content, no matter how sensitive or controversial, if it contributes to something noteworthy in the game."Another more educational game, Killer Flu, has also had an upswing in interest since the swine flu story broke. Commissioned in 2007 by the UK Clinical Virology Network, it too casts the player as a virus attempting to infect as many people as possible. Unlike Pandemic 2, the underlying message is how tricky it actually is for viruses to spread.Ian Bogost, the co-founder of Persuasive Games, which designed Killer Flu, explains: "Pandemic flu is actually very similar to ordinary flu. Our game is about increasing information and reducing panic. Pandemic 2 is gruesome but gratifying. Playing out worst-case scenarios is how we make sense of things."Though some question whether games are an appropriate medium for examining topics such as disease, Bogost does not believe that any subjects should be off limits. "There was a time when we asked the same questions about the novel," he says.In fact, he strikes an optimistic note: "Games have a unique power that other media don't. They allow you to understand how systems work. Epidemiology may actually be better explained in game form than by a pamphlet or documentary."Infectious activitySwinefighterInoculate the flying pigs to turn them from a sickly green to a healthy pink.Swine Flu: HamdemicEnd threat of pandemic by throwing pigs out of Mexico with a slingshot.Aporkalypse Now!Unsettling first person shooter where your enemies are brutal zombie pigs.Pandemic 2Try to eradicate humanity with a killer virus. Not for hypochondriacs.SneezeTry to infect as many people as you can with a single sneeze.Killer FluGame in which you infect residents of a randomly generated world.
Pressure from US officials has forced classified advertising website Craigslist to pull the shutters down on its controversial sex adverts in favour of a new, closely-monitored system.In an announcement earlier today, Craigslist chief executive Jim Buckmaster said the site would be closing the "erotic services" category next week - an open messageboard described as "a blatant internet brothel" by one official.Instead, the site will open a new "adult services" category, in which every advert will be manually approved by staff before it is seen by members of the public."Each posting to this new category will be manually reviewed before appearing on the site, to ensure compliance with Craigslist posting guidelines and terms of use," said Buckmaster in apost on the Craigslist blog. "We are optimistic that the new balance struck today will be an acceptable compromise."The move comes as the San Francisco-based website attempts to head off acase brought against it by officials in Chicago, who had accused Craigslist of being "the single largest source of prostitution" in America."Missing children, runaways, abused women and women trafficked in from foreign countries are routinely forced to have sex with strangers because they're being pimped on Craigslist," said Cook county sheriff Thomas Dart at the outset of the case two months ago. "I could make arrests off Craigslist 24 hours a day, but to what end? I'm trying to go up the ladder."The situation has proved particularly problematic for Craigslist because it charged $5 for an erotic services entry - although it has said that all of the money made from the listings goes to charity.However, the website has consistently rejected claims that it encourages prostitution, saying that it had often assisted law enforcement in their investigations and kept records of everybody who had advertised on the site. Despite such protestations, however, the attacks sparked a period of concerted pressure.After similar public statements by politicians around the US,Buckmaster met with attorneys general from several US statesin an attempt to broker a truce.That meeting appears to have led to today's solution, which was greeted positively by officials.Connecticut attorney general Dick Blumenthal, who was at the meeting last week, said that the change was a good move - but that the site had to prove that it would continue its commitment."We're very encouraged that Craigslist is doing the right thing in eliminating its online red light district with prostitution and pornography in plain sight," he said. "We'll be watching and investigating critically to make sure this measure is more than just a name change."
Things move fast on Twitter. This morning we woke up to find that it had changed the way it dealt with "replies" in its feed. Some - well, quite a few - people moaned.Biz Stone heard. Heads were banged together.And now the responseon the Twitter blog:The problem with the setting was that it didn't scale and even if we rebuilt it, the feature was blunt. It was confusing and caused a sense of inconsistency. We felt we could do much better.So here's what we're planning to do. First, we're making a change such that any updates beginning with @username (that are not explicitly created by clicking on the reply icon) will be seen by everyone following that account. This will bring back some serendipity and discovery and we can do this very soon.To which one's objection is: "any updates beginning with @username that are not explicitly created by clicking on the reply"? You mean "replies that aren't replies but which are replies"? Perhaps that means "replies created via the API", except I think those are.So in other words, to take advantage of the very slight rollback, you have to reply by not replying. That is, rather than clicking the arrow that says "reply" beside the tweet you want to reply to - which then fills in the user name (which is often different from the screen name you see), you have to type it in. Misspelling hilarity will surely ensue.This is a fix? A temporary one.Second, we've started designing a new feature which will give folks far more control over what they see from the accounts they follow. This will be a per-user setting and it will take a bit longer to put together but not too long and we're already working on it. Thanks for all the great feedback and thanks for helping us discover what's important!You have to love "a bit longer but not too long". That's the sort of deadline we all like to work against.Again, there's a wider point to this: features which get changed without pre-announcement in connected services. There's been a similar change to the TV planner of the Sky+ HD service: rather than a straightforward listing, it now has a split-screen layout. This has provedunpopular(and confusing) to some. (Here's theold, here's thenew.)The lesson may be that what is needed with such services is plenty of warning about how and why things are going to change. Certainly there ought to have been a few explanations ahead of time.And just to prove you can't please everyone, Chris Applegatecommentedon Twitter: "Fucking great. Twitter has decided to #fixreplies by doing the exact opposite. So the 98% of us who don't want irrelevant @s now get them".Yes, it's an episode of the grumpiness of the crowds. Who'd be the developer of a popular worldwide online service?
While the European commission may be successful in fining Intel, it's unlikely to make any real difference to the computer market, or to consumers, or to the company that prompted the case: AMD. It could even result in consumers paying higher prices.The problem is that Intel, which invented the microprocessor, has roughly 80% of the PC market, leaving AMD with about 20%.In the computer industry, higher volumes generally lead to lower production costs, and Intel's long-term investment in multi-billion-dollar chip factories across several continents – our local fab is in Ireland – gives it an overwhelming advantage.The fact is that AMD is simply incapable of supplying the market, so any changes in the competitive landscape will have only marginal effects. As the commission recognises in its statement: "Because computer manufacturers are dependent on Intel for a majority of their x86 CPU supplies, only a limited part of a computer manufacturer's x86 CPU requirements is open to competition at any given time."And when the cost of that competitive CPU is bundled in with the hard drive, memory and graphics chips, operating system, case, monitor, keyboard and other essential parts, it may not make any difference to consumers anyway.Looking forward, insofar as the ruling discourages Intel from offering special deals to large PC manufacturers, it could mean consumers pay higher prices. This would probably benefit AMD, by enabling it to increase its own unprofitable prices.Last year, AMD lost $3.1bn (£2bn) on revenues of $5.8bn, and in 2007, it lost $3.4bn on revenues of $5.9bn. It would be a triumph for the company to break even. This suggests it has deeper problems than the commission can address with fines.However, this doesn't mean AMD is powerless, and it has had a significant impact over the past decade – thanks partly to Microsoft. For example, AMD took a lead on moving the PC industry from 32-bit to 64-bit computing, by extending Intel's x86 architecture.Intel had hoped to move the industry to a new architecture for the 21st century, using Itanium chips developed in conjunction with PC and printer manufacturer, Hewlett-Packard. This strategy failed partly because the market's acceptance of AMD's extensions to x86 – sometimes called AMD64 – and Microsoft's support for them, forced Intel to follow suit.The Brussels ruling claims that Intel's marketing deals restricted "innovation". The bigger and much more important story is that AMD and the PC market rejected Intel's more innovative approach in favour of conserving the past.In the end, both Intel and AMD are limited in what they can do by the tens of millions of programs written for the x86 architecture. It's good if these can be run more efficiently, but the future is somewhere else.
Cash-conscious consumers are switching to cheaper tariffs with more free minutes or hanging onto their phones to qualify for discount deals, according to new figures from the UK's largest mobile phone company, O2.The company, part of Spanish telecoms group Telefónica, announced that the amount it makes from each of its British customers has dipped 3.6% in the past three months, despite a 17.5% increase in minutes carried over the network to just under 12.8bn."It is clear that customers are looking to optimise their bundles," said the company's European boss, Matthew Key. "Consumers are obviously looking at all their spending in the current climate."He said O2 had seen a rise in the number of customers hanging onto their phones at the end of their annual contract and opting for a reduction in their bill or bigger bundles of text messages, instead of upgrading to a new handset. In fact, over the first quarter of the year, O2 actually saw the money it makes from texting decline slightly, as it gave customers ever larger bundles to keep them loyal.As part of Telefónica, O2 UK reports its results in euros and the collapse of the pound has distorted its quarterly figures somewhat. First-quarter revenues of €1.56bn were down from €1.75bn in the same period last year, but actually up 7% in sterling terms.However average revenue per user (ARPU) – a crucial metric for analysts – is showing a downward trend as O2 locks in its existing customers with cheaper deals and chases new users with its Simplicity SIM-only offer. ARPU was €24.20 a month in the fourth quarter, down from €30.10 in the same period in 2008 and €27.10 in the previous quarter. Stripping out currency effects, the year-on-year decline was 3.6%.But SIM-only deals mean O2 does not have to spend money subsidising new handsets and as a result the company has been able to hold its profit margins steady in the UK.Overall data revenues, meanwhile, were up 8.4% in the quarter as the company benefited from sales of mobile broadband "dongles" and the continued success of the iPhone, which O2 has under an exclusive deal with Apple in the UK.Key said the company has seen no reduction in monthly sales of the iPhone despite the gloomy economic climate. Earlier this year, O2 sold its one millionth iPhone, about 14 months after launch, and Key said sales have continued steadily in the first quarter of the year.The lure of the iPhone at one end of the spectrum and SIM-only deals at the other helped O2 grab just over 286,000 new contract customers over the three months to end March. It lost, however, 144,500 pre-pay users, taking its net gain to 141,800 and total customer base to 20.4 million.In the same period, Orange lost 145,000 customers, taking its customer base to 15.85 million, while T-Mobile saw its customer numbers decline to 16.7 million from 16.8 million. T-Mobile, however, includes Virgin Mobile's customers in its figures; stripping them out, T-Mobile's UK customer base was static at just over 12.6 million. Vodafone, the UK's second largest mobile phone operator, will announce its results next week.T-Mobile UK's German parent, ­Deutsche Telekom, slashed the value of its British business by €1.8bn (£1.6bn) when it reported its first-quarter figures. That move, coupled with the appointment of a new UK chief executive who has experience of turning businesses around before selling them, has sparked speculation that T-Mobile UK is up for sale.But Key said O2 had no desire to go on a spending spree, saying the company has "no immediate plans" to make any acquisitions in the UK. "The mobile phone market is polarising between winners and losers as far as the operators are concerned and we think we have a lot of momentum, and for us organic [growth] is the way to go," he said.Overall, Telefónica's first-quarter results were better than expected as operations in Latin America offset lacklustre results from recession-hit Europe. Profits were up 9.8% at just under €1.7bn.
When did these anticompetitive activities happen?Beginning in October 2002 and continuing to December 2005 in the case of the computer manufacturers Dell, Hewlett Packard, Acer, Lenovo and NEC; from October 2002 to December 2007 in the case of Media Saturn Holdings, owner of the German retail chain Media Markt.What did Intel do?It offered rebates to the computer makers if they purchased between 80% and 100% (it varied between manufacturer) of the central processing units (CPUs) that are the "brains" of the machine from Intel. For the retailer, it paid it to sell only Intel-based computers.What's wrong with that?The specific exclusion of AMD, Intel's principal rival in the market for CPUs. Intel says that it was a straightforward business deal where it was offering a discount for bulk-buying. The commission ruled that Intel's existing dominance meant that, in effect, the bulk discount actually meant "the computer manufacturer had no choice but to buy from Intel" – because so few would not have been anyway.Would I have noticed the effects?Almost certainly not, unless you had some specific reason to want a computer with an AMD processor. The effect of Intel's tactics was that AMD products became hard to find. But because their processor ranges work almost identically, it simply grew Intel's share of the market.That however could have a longer-term effect if AMD went out of business, which would leave Intel able to raise prices – or limit supplies – as it wanted.Intel is appealing against the ruling. Does it have to pay the fine yet?Yes. The money is paid into a "blocked account" which is held by the commission. If Intel wins the final ruling, the money will be paid back – with interest.If Intel eventually loses, who gets the money – AMD, us or the commission?The commission. The fine is in effect the amount judged to have been unfairly extracted from European taxpayers (because without the anticompetitive moves, we should have benefited from more competition and hence lower prices).Even though not all taxpayers lost out – a truly equitable settlement would see all those who bought an Intel-based PC from the four makers involved, or the retailer, get some redress – the money goes to help defray the costs of running the commission, which we all fund. AMD said that it does not want any of the fine to be paid to it.Isn't this all too late to help, if the market has been distorted?Possibly. But the commission points out that it needed to gather the data to have a watertight case, and that takes time.How big could the fine have been?Even bigger: in theory, up to 10% of global annual revenue, which would have been €2.8bn (£2.5bn). The Commission says "The fine in this case takes account of the duration and gravity of the infringement": the fine has been calculated on the basis of the value of Intel's x86 CPU sales in the European Economic Area (EEA), which are judged to have lasted five years and three months.
Just a quickie round-up of two Capcom stories blurted out today. First, the company is publishing two of its game soundtracks on iTunes. 1942: Joint Strike and Wolf of the Battlefield: Commando 3 have been remade by Sumthing Else Music Works and specialist game music production houseGem Impact. It's an intriguing development, which could well lead to an influx of game tunes on Apple's music service.The question is, which classic game soundtracks wouldyoulike to see available for legal download? Would you pay 79p for a classic work by Rob Hubbard or Tommy Tallarico?Meanwhile, ever wondered what would happen if an art gallery in California put onan exhibition of works inspired by Street Fighter, then invited cos-players to the opening?You have? Okay, you're going to enjoy this...
Here is thestatement by Paul Otellini, chief executive of Intel, about the European Commission's largest-ever fine imposed on the companyearlier today:"Intel takes strong exception to this decision. We believe the decision is wrong and ignores the reality of a highly competitive microprocessor marketplace – characterized by constant innovation, improved product performance and lower prices. There has been absolutely zero harm to consumers. Intel will appeal.""We do not believe our practices violated European law. The natural result of a competitive market with only two major suppliers is that when one company wins sales, the other does not. The Directorate General for Competition of the Commission ignored or refused to obtain significant evidence that contradicts the assertions in this decision. We believe this evidence shows that when companies perform well the market rewards them, when they don't perform the market acts accordingly.""Intel never sells products below cost. We have however, consistently invested in innovation, in manufacturing and in developing leadership technology. The result is that we can discount our products to compete in a highly competitive marketplace, passing along to consumers everywhere the efficiencies of being the world's leading volume manufacturer of microprocessors.""Despite our strongly held views, as we go through the appeals process we plan to work with the Commission to ensure we're in compliance with their decision. Finally, there should be no doubt whatsoever that Intel will continue to invest in the products and technologies that provide Europe and the rest of the world the industry's best performing processors at lower prices."
When a group of fans of the Dune books received a copyright threat from the estate of Frank Herbert, they took the path of least resistance: they renamed and altered their re-creation of the novel's setting – a loving tribute created inside the virtual world of Second Life – so that it was no longer so recognisable as an homage to Herbert's classic science fiction novels.The normal thing to do here is to rail at the stupidity of the Herbert estate in attacking these fans. After all, they weren't taking money out of the pockets of the estate, the chance of trademark dilution in this case is infinitesimal, the creators were celebrating and spreading their love for the series, they are assuredly all major fans and customers for the products the estate is trying to market, their little Second Life re-creation was obscure and unimportant to all but its users, and the estate's legal resources could surely be better used in finding new ways to make money than in finding new ways to alienate its best customers.But that's not what this column is about. What I want to ask is, how did we end up with a copyright law that only protects critics, while leaving fans out in the cold?Some background: copyright's regulatory contours allow for many kinds of use without permission from the copyright holder. For example, if you're writing a critical review of a book, copyright allows you to include quotations from the book for the purpose of criticism. Giving authors the right to choose which critics are allowed to make their points with quotes from the original work is obvious bad policy. It's a thick-skinned author indeed who'd arm his most devastating critics with the whips they need to score him. The courts have historically afforded similar latitude to parodists, on much the same basis: if you're engaged in the parodical mockery of a work, it's a little much to expect that the work's author will give her blessing to your efforts.The upshot of this is that you're on much more solid ground if you want to quote or otherwise reference a work for the purposes of rubbishing it than if you are doing so to celebrate it. This is one of the most perverse elements of copyright law: the reality that loving something doesn't confer any right to make it a part of your creative life.The damage here is twofold: first, this privileges creativity that knocks things down over things that build things up. The privilege is real: in the 21st century, we all rely on many intermediaries for the publication of our works, whether it's YouTube, a university web server, or a traditional publisher or film company. When faced with legal threats arising from our work, these entities know that they've got a much stronger case if the work in question is critical than if it is celebratory. In the digital era, our creations have a much better chance of surviving the internet's normal background radiation of legal threats if you leave the adulation out and focus on the criticism. This is a selective force in the internet's media ecology: if you want to start a company that lets users remix TV shows, you'll find it easier to raise capital if the focus is on taking the piss rather than glorifying the programmes.Second, this perverse system acts as a censor of genuine upwellings of creativity that are worthy in their own right, merely because they are inspired by another work. It's in the nature of beloved works that they become ingrained in our thinking, become part of our creative shorthand, and become part of our visual vocabulary. It's no surprise, then, that audiences are moved to animate the characters that have taken up residence in their heads after reading our books and seeing our movies. The celebrated American science-fiction writer Steven Brust produced a fantastic, full-length novel, My Own Kind of Freedom, inspired by the television show Firefly. Brust didn't – and probably can't – receive any money for this work, but he wrote it anyway, because, he says, "I couldn't help myself".Brust circulated his book for free and was lucky enough that Joss Whedon, Firefly's creator, didn't see fit to bring legal action against him.But if he had been sued, Brust would have been on much stronger grounds if his novel had been a savage parody that undermined everything Whedon had made in Firefly. The fact that Brust wrote his book because he loved Whedon's work would have been a mark against him in court.This isn't a plea for unlimited licence to commercially exploit the creations of others. It's fitting that commercial interests who plan on making new works from yours seek your permission under the appropriate circumstances. Nor is this a plea to eliminate the vital aid to free expression that we find in copyright exceptions that protect criticism.Rather, it's a vision of copyright that says that fannish celebration – the noncommercial, cultural realm of expression and creativity that has always accompanied commercial art, but only lately attained easy visibility thanks to the internet – should get protection, too. That once an artist has put their works in our head, made them part of our lives, we should be able to live those lives.
The world's largest online auctioneer, eBay, was today claiming a "victory for consumers" after a court in Paris ruled that it was not liable forcounterfeit L'Oreal perfumesfor sale on its website.The perfume and cosmetics company has taken legal action against eBay in four other countries, but today's ruling is a major victory in France for eBay, which was fined €38.6million (£34.7million) in a similar case against the luxury goods manufacturerLVMH (Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton) groupand €20,000 against Hermès. The ruling reflects a Belgian court's decision last August, and a ruling is expected shortly on a similar case being brought in the UK.L'Oreal has claimed that the eBay website profits from the sale of fake products and that brand owners are expected to help police online auctions. The cosmetics company told the hearing in Paris it believed that as many as 60% of the perfumes sold on eBay under its luxury brand names were fakes.But the  court ruled that eBay was meeting its obligations to combat the sale of fake products, and urged the companies to use mediation to develop a plan which would enable them to work together on the issue.The online auctioneer also won a similar dispute with the Rolex Group in Germany over counterfeit watches.Richard Ambrose, head of trust and safety for eBay UK and Ireland, said:&nbsp;"This is a clear legal victory for eBay and an important victory for consumers. We are delighted that eBay's meaningful efforts to fight counterfeits online have been recognised by the court. Today 99% of all items listed on eBay are genuine products and we continue to work hard to ensure eBay is a safe and trusted place to shop."He added:  "We have always believed that co-operation is the best way to fight counterfeits. Ongoing dialogue and collaboration, rather than litigation, is the only way to effectively identify and remove any counterfeit items which do appear on our site.''
The Cabinet Office has appointed a new "director of digital engagement" to oversee the Government's online communications strategy.Andrew Stott, a senior civil servant and one of the Government's most experienced IT policy figures, will carry out the role.Stott has been the Government's deputy chief information officer since 2004 and also oversaw the government's network of websites as head of service transformation at the e-government unit.The Cabinet Office said his new role will see him "work across government departments to encourage, support and challenge them in moving from communicating to citizens on the web to conversing and collaborating with them through digital technology" – including blogs and social networking sites such as Twitter and Facebook.Government departments are making greater use of bloggers and websites, sometimes briefing specialist online writers that would have been ignored until recently.Ministries have also been driving content, including public sector jobs, on to government websites.Recent attempts to harness the power of the internet, however, have been far from successful. Prime minister Gordon Brown's recent Youtube appearances have invited ridicule, and a decision by Downing Street to launch an online "e-petition" site, which allows members of the public to put forward and sign petitions, has also caused embarrassment on occasions.The most popular petition on the website until recently called on Gordon Brown to resign.It is unlikely that Stott will be masterminding similar initiatives, concentrating instead on developing the digital services that government already operates.
Lord Carter's adviser Kip Meek has today proposed a radical shakeup of the UK's airwaves he believes will bring mobile broadband to everyone at twice the speed the communications minister originally envisaged within five years.Meek wants part of the spectrum that will be freed up by the switch-off of analogue television by 2012 – the so-called "digital dividend" – to be sold next year under the condition that it is used to get basic mobile broadband coverage to 99% of the population.The UK's five mobile phone companies will also have their existing 3G licences extended indefinitely in return for extending high-speed mobile broadband coverage from its current base of just over 80% of the population."What is the prize?"Meek asks in his report as Carter's independent spectrum broker, published today. "By expediting the introduction of, and investment in, nationwide next generation mobile services, it is within the UK's grasp to achieve within five years mobile broadband at around 4Mbps across the UK as a whole and more than 50 megabits per second in many urban areas.""This would put the UK at the forefront of commercially-deployed mobile technology around the world, delivering economic and social benefits that far outweigh the costs."Meek's proposal for services at around 4Mbps is twice the speed thatCarter had proposed in his interim Digital Britain report in January.Under Meek's proposals, O2 and Vodafone will not be forced to give up some of the capacity they were granted when they started mobile phone services in the 1980s, abandoning a plan that dates back to 2007. Instead Meek has recommended capping the amount of spectrum that the mobile phone operators can hold,as reported by the Guardian last month.This would preclude O2 and Vodafone from buying the new spectrum that can be used once the analogue television signal is switched off in 2012, unless they sold some of their existing holdings. Meek plans to auction this spectrum in three blocks, which will include regional coverage targets. Successful bidders would also have to allow other companies to use their networks for their own services.The decision to slice off part of the digital dividend and allocate it for mobile broadband coverage is likely to infuriate many in the television industry who had been hoping that the vast majority would be handed over to broadcasters.In return for accepting spectrum caps, O2, Vodafone, Orange and T-Mobile, will also be able to use their existing so-called 2G networks to run 3G services, further extending the reach of mobile broadband into rural areas before the digital dividend becomes usable.Meek's plan calls for regulator Ofcom to drop its approach to slicing and dicing the UK's mobile phone spectrum and instead see the country's airwave patchwork as a single unit. If accepted, the plan would end years of wrangling over what technologies can be used on what part of the airwaves.The Meek plan also marks a victory for the mobile phone companies, which have been fighting hard with Ofcom for permission to use their existing bandwidth for broadband before being asked to spend yet more money buying up fresh spectrum.Ofcom has two further blocks of the airwaves to sell: the analogue TV signal and a higher-frequency block of spectrum at 2.6GHz, close to the existing 3G spectrum and known as the "3G expansion band". That latter block is 40% larger than the 3G spectrum the government sold at the height of the dotcom boom for £22.5bn.Meek has proposed that both these slices of spectrum be auctioned at the same time next year so the mobile phone companies can consolidate their holdings. New entrants may also enter the market as by bidding for a slice of the 3G expansion band that is not suitable for mobile phone networks, but could be used for a new super-fast broadband technology called Wimax that BT has tested, will be sold later this year.UK mobile phone spectrum is currently split into three blocks: 900MHz and 1800Mhz, upon which the networks run 2G services, and 2.1GHz, on which they run 3G.The first block was split between Vodafone and O2 when they started services back in the 1980s. This lies just above the current TV signal – at 800MHz – and is perfect for pushing signals over long distances as well as achieving indoor coverage. Then when Orange and T-Mobile started services in the early 1990s they were granted spectrum at 1800Mhz, with Vodafone and O2 also getting some of the new spectrum.In the dotcom boom at the turn of the century the government sold spectrum at the higher 2.1GHz band, under the condition that it was used for 3G broadband. This spectrum is perfect for super-fast broadband in urban areas. Adding the 3G expansion band at 2.6Ghz to this spectrum would allow a mobile phone company to operate very high-speed mobile broadband networks in towns and cities.It was intended that the auction of the 3G expansion band would start well over a year ago but it has been delayed by legal objections from the mobile phone companies. T-Mobile launched a judicial review of Ofcom's plan in the high court and, although it subsequently dropped the case, a legal action is still being pursued by O2.Meek's proposals will now be developed and finalised by the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform and form part of the final Digital Britain report in June. It will then be up to Ofcom to implement the final plan.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The giant chipmaker Intel has been ordered to pay a €1.06bn (£950m) fine to the European commission for anticompetitive practices involving its rival AMD and payments offered to PC makers for using its chips.Under the commission's rules, the maximum fine is 10% of global turnover – which for Intel could have meant up to $3.7bn (£2.4bn)Brussels says the company gave price discounts to computer manufacturers Acer, Dell, HP, Lenovo and NEC for buying all or almost all their chips from Intel.Although Intel last year made a profit of $5.3bn, the swingeing fine will still hurt it at a time when it has  announcedjob cuts and falling revenuesthis year.The commission previously fined Microsoft €497m in 2004 for abusing its dominant market position, and ordered it to offer PC makers versions of Windows that did not include the Windows Media Player software – although Microsoft protested (correctly, as it turned out) that hardly anyone would want it.The commissiontook aim at Intel last July, with three specific charges: that Intel "offered discounts to a major European personal computer distributor to favour its products, paid a PC maker to delay marketing a model line using [rival] AMD chips, and also paid it to use Intel's own microprocessors in preference".Intel responded that the action "suggests that the commission supports AMD's position that Intel should be prevented from competing fairly and offering price discounts which have resulted in lower prices for consumers".Duncan Gillespie, a competition partner at the law firm DLA Piper, said: "The ruling is an important milestone as it is one of the first major cases under the European commission's new guidelines on exclusionary abuses under Article 82 of the EC Treaty."But, he added, Intel will have up to two months to lodge an appeal: "This case is likely to have several more years to run."
What looks like an innocuous note on the Twitter blog last night has instead touched off a firestorm. If you can touch off a firestorm on a social network. Anyway.The notesaid:We've updated the Notices section of Settings to better reflect how folks are using Twitter regarding replies. Based on usage patterns and feedback, we've learned most people want to see when someone they follow replies to another person they follow—it's a good way to stay in the loop. However, receiving one-sided fragments via replies sent to folks you don't follow in your timeline is undesirable. Today's update removes this undesirable and confusing option.I know: you're saying "huh?"Here's how it works. Twitter is a non-reciprocal social network: A may "follow" (see the tweets of) B, but B doesn't have to follow A. Instead, B might follow C (whom A doesn't follow), and send comments to C - which, in the evolving language of Twitter, are prefixed by "@".Thus B might say:@C you went to the Flight of the Conchords gig? Album's great!Until last night, A would have seen that tweet. And, if A was a Conchords fan, or respected B's opinion, then they might also be interested in C - who seems to have the same interests (at least on satirical music/TV series).But with the tweak, that doesn't happen. Because B is addressing C - even though it's public, in the "timeline" - it doesn't appear in A's list of "things B said".This is not popular - there'salready the #fixreplies meme- andEvan Williams, Twitter's chief executive, hasresponded"Reading people's thoughts on the replies issue. We're considering alternatives. Thanks for your feedback."While it was a user preference that you could choose not to see messages directed to someone you didn't follow, what has annoyed people is that it's now a default - and you can't change it. (Putting words in front, so the @C is embedded somewhere in the message, or even an underscore - such as _@C - does work, but it's a hoop that people who had previously chosen to see everything don't want to jump through.)The wider point about this though is that it cuts to the heart of how you make social networking effective. Twitter has been likened to a giant cocktail party: pretty much everything is in the open (apart from people who "protect" their updates, meaning you have to request to see them). The idea that you can serendipitiously come across interesting people by watching the interplay of people you already follow with people you don't has been one of its attractions.Similarly on Facebook, where having befriended somebody, you can cruise through their friends and see if there are others you'd like to get connected to. In essence, we're trying to reduce the six degrees of separation to one (within the natural limits of our ability to properly befriend large numbers of people - which is limited, apparently by the folds in our brain, to about 150, akaDunbar's number).Really, we need an anthropologist to weigh in here..Biz Stone, the co-founder who wrote the original blogpost, did seem to realise that this might interfere with how people used Twitter, but brushed it off:Spotting new folks in tweets is an interesting way to check out new profiles and find new people to follow. Despite this update, you'll still see mentions or references linking to people you don't follow. For example, you'll continue to see, "Ev meeting with @biz about work stuff" even if you don't follow @biz. We'll be introducing better ways to discover and follow interesting accounts as we release more features in this space.Except that the typical way to write the above tweet would be@ev meeting with @biz about work stuffwhich would not then appear in the stream of anyone who doesn't follow @ev - meaning they'd never know about Ev's and Biz's meetups.Any way you look at it, it's retrograde. The interesting thing will be to see how long it takes @ev and @biz to realise this and roll back the change.Update:looks like it might take a bit longer to "roll back" the change than you'd expect. The Twitter blog has sprung back to life, with Biz Stone (that's @biz)explainingthatThe engineering team reminded me that there were serious technical reasons why that setting had to go or be entirely rebuilt—it wouldn't have lasted long even if we thought it was the best thing ever. Nevertheless, it's amazing to wake up and see all the tweets about this change."Amazing" is one word. I've seen a suggestion that only 2% of people used the "see all @replies" option (it feels a hell of a lot bigger to me); the default on signing on was the one that is now in place ("replies" to people you don't follow don't appear). This wasdiscussed in a Twitter blog post earlier.The fact that it's an engineering problem is intriguing; I would have thought that it would be simpler to simply pull out all the messages of people you follow from the database, rather than having to do a LEFT JOIN FOLLOWERS on the first word as well. But maybe Twitter needs to tell us more about its internals before we can understand the engineering reasons underneath this.Meanwhile, Stone promises thatWe're hearing your feedback and reading through it all. One of the strongest signals is that folks were using this setting to discover and follow new and interesting accounts—this is something we absolutely want to support. Our product, design, user experience, and technical teams have started brainstorming a way to surface a new, scalable way to address this need.Which means: replies are going to stay like they are until we can dream up, design, implement, test and roll out a fix. Sweepstake on when? (The site is currently down for maintenance - reopening 9pm BST - but it would be surprising if this was fixed then.)
[UPDATED: AsBarbieonce said, "Math is hard". I also counted wrong.]AsKeith reportedon Monday, there's great news for the British games industry: the UK development scene is exceptionally successful, landing 23 of 100 places inDevelop's Top 100 Most Successful Studiosrankings.The publication, which came out earlier this week, listed the most 'bankable' studios, based on "a variety of key criteria including sales data, critical success and industry standing".The UK scored high in the league tables, with Rockstar'smost influentialteam hitting the number three spot, just after Nintendo, which trailed marginally behind World of Warcraft developers Blizzard. Enter a deluge of coverage; yet Develop's rankings have been touted across the web, with nary the hint of critique.Of course, the UK presence in this list may have been an artifact of the selection process: the British magazine Develop, which compiles the annual publication and releases it around the same time as they announce the keynotes for theirDevelop conference(whereour popular games quizwill be held again for a second time in Brighton), maintain that the selection comes from a variety of traditional sources, including end of calendar year charts (only from UK, USA and Japan - where's Canada, the third-largest games producers?), non-retail outlets and platforms (iPhone, MMOs, casual and social networking games - these stats are notoriously evasive: how'd they get them? From where? On what basis are the companies ranked? Says who?) and aggregated review scores from Metacritic.Then there are also a few less-traditional and less-transparent rankings, including "general industry standing, studio reputation, publisher relations and all around brilliance". Slightly subjective, some might argue. I hope to speak with Owain Bennallack, Editor of the publication and Develop magazine later this week to clarify how these were determined. Are there any questions you might have, about the list in particular or games industry journalism in general?I don't aim to pooh pooh the top notch quality of the games industry in this country; its strong presence in this list brings warm fuzzies to my cockles, as a fierce advocate of the British take on computer gaming. At face value, what the results of this publication suggest is that the UK market is strong, even in the face of economic adversity, and the output of its 40,000 industry employees makes it an important creative force around the world.
The Go Gamehas been enticing players for several years now in the USA, but two of its members, Mei Li and Chris Olson, have recently moved to the UK to set up a branch of the pervasive gaming event company. Pervasive games use the real-world as their playgrounds, integrating new technologies into the location-based, team objectives. I caught up with Chris in the excitement before their first game this weekend in London, in association with gamesblog favouriteHide &amp; Seek, and asked what the appeal is.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.The Go Game is an urban adventure game played on mobile phones. We equip teams of 4-8 people with a map, digital camera, and phone, on which they receive 'missions' to complete throughout the game. These messages ask players to solve a riddle, visit a local landmark, create a photo or video masterpiece, or interact with a Go Game secret agent. After the game, teams get together at a pub and watch the photos and videos on a big screen. They vote via mobile phone on which team is the funniest, the most daring, or who took off the most clothes – it's up to the audience! We design our games to allow everyone to show off what they do best. Our half-day events are a natural fit for corporate team building, marketing new products, innovative trainings and pure fun.What do players do in the game?During the course of the two hour game, teams receive messages on their mobile phones from Go Game Headquarters which they must complete for points, bragging rights, and ultimate glory! A team might answer obscure trivia, head into a shop and solve a clue, interact with a secret agent at a pub, or even channel their inner Susan Boyle and show off a hidden talent. A team will typically complete 15 missions during a game, each of which highlights a different skill set. At the end of the game, players return to a pub or café to mingle and watch a multimedia presentation of the photos and videos from the game. We'll add a Go Game touch with spontaneous sound effects and a live MC while teams vote on their mobiles for the best and most creative, hilarious, and brilliant creations.What is your background?As directors of the UK Go Game office, both Chris and Mei appreciate the finer things in life. What other job allows us to indulge our love for technology, games, current events, sarcasm, celebrity gossip, obscure facts, performing and making people happy?Chris studied to be a history teacher, but instead went to work in politics in Washington, DC. He also spent two long years with a corporate law firm where he stayed sane by writing for a blog, running a small business and cooking massive amounts of BBQ.Mei has experience with strong community bonds and fanatical excitement as the co-founder of a company making Boston sports gear for women (the Red Sox obsession might be compared to allegiance to one's football team here in London). She has channeled this entrepreneurial spirit and love of a good time into launching The Go Game overseas.As game developers for The Go Game we both spent the past three years traveling around the US writing games and producing events. Now it's time to bring our particular brand of fun and adventure to the UK.Name your competitors.We don't mean to toot our own horn, but so far, we haven't encountered any other companies using our mix of technology, interactivity, and humor to encourage creativity and communication. There are several other teambuilding companies in the UK such as Maximillion, Moonlighting and The Teambuilding Company, but none have our unique and easily adaptable web-based interface which sets us ahead from other SMS and paper-based competitors. The team-building marketplace is certainly crowded, but we've set ourselves apart for the past 7 years by making creative, customized, technology-fuelled, and, above all, fun games.How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?In the US we've had more than 50,000 people play The Go Game since 2002. We plan on getting there in the UK and Europe within 5 years. Our game this Saturday will have 150 players. We plan on having 5,000 corporate players and 1,500 public players over the next 12 months.What's your biggest challenge?Finding enough hours in the day – since we develop our software in-house, our games are fully customizable for any type of event. We love writing missions, exploring various partnerships, and experimenting with new games. Because we're only limited by our imaginations, there's often a lot on our brains!What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?On the game development side, a group from Microsoft came to us and asked to create a themed game in Las Vegas based on the film Oceans 11. We put together an event that included VIPs going undercover as elite international criminals, clues visible only by helicopter, meetings with sinister characters in the desert and limo rides down the Las Vegas Strip. On the technical side, the biggest challenge has been finding ways to code and develop the crazy scenarios we cook up. For the SXSW Interactive festival in Texas earlier this year, our coders worked on-the-fly during a 72 hour open registration game that kept our servers and our fingers extremely busy.What's your distribution/publishing plan?We'll continue to use the sales pitch that people like best: come and play our game! We're in the business of bringing people together and the best way to understand the joy of The Go Game is to play. Our most devoted customers are those who have firsthand experience of our events. We will also continue to bring our employees' personalities directly to the public through our blog, website and Twitter. We've found that personal relationships (and the excited ravings of converted Go Game fans) are always the ones that sell.Are cross-platforms games the latest killer app?Accessibility is key. As consumers in the digital age, we want instant access at all times. People are always excited to hear about the latest and greatest product so we're constantly trying to innovate and offer new games. However, the best products withstand the test of time, which is why we still run our Classic Go Game so many years later. That's probably also why we're still obsessed with the original Super Mario Brothers and decorated our new London office with a metaphorical scene from the game.Are you the next big thing?We're here in London to prove that we are to be the next big thing. Our games draw upon new and impressive technologies, which we seek to incorporate into our events in exciting and unexpected ways. At the same time, we utilize this technology for the purpose of facilitating real-world interactions with the surrounding environment and, most importantly, other people. The Go Game, at its core, is all about bringing people together as well as bringing out the best in every player. Unlike most games that have their niche constituencies, The Go Game relies on multiple skill sets and the inherent playfulness inside each and every one of us. We're accessible, tangible, creative and fun.You can get involved inthe first official UK Go Game this weekend. Head to Cosmobar in Clerkenwell at 12:30 on Saturday 16 May. And wear some good trainers.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Forget demi-celebs likeAshton Kutcher(who?), National Treasures likeStephen Fryor even bona fide media moguls likeOprah Winfrey- these days the real pioneers ofTwitterare doing it from 350 miles above the Earth's surface.Nasa astronautMike Massiminohas sent thefirst Twitter message from space- telling a quarter of a million followers that, well, he's enjoying it up there.Astro Mike's first twitter message from spaceIn case you can't read the picture, the message reads:"From orbit: Launch was awesome!! I am feeling great, working hard, &amp; enjoying the magificent views, the adventure of a lifetime has begun!"Massimino, who was on board theAtlantis when it launched from Cape Canaveralearlier this week, is the first in a string of astronauts who are going to be using social media tools like Twitter and YouTube from aboard the shuttle and international space station in the coming months.Except... well, it's notquitewhat it seems.Etan Horowitz of the Orlando Sentinelexplains that there's no live connection: instead, Astro Mike must compose his message on a computer and then beam the message in an email down to ground control. Some lucky Nasa goon then gets to pick up his message and paste it into Twitter, where it becomes visible for all of us on the internet.Of course, Twitter has been used to document the ups and downs of space travel before: most notably in the form of theMars Phoenix account, which saw a stream of in-character messages from the interplanetary rover... until it all went wrong in the frigid Martian winter.But Massimino's Twitter-by-proxy situation isn't just because there's no internet aboard the shuttle, though: Nasa's very careful about the messages about it that reach the public. I askedAriel Waldman, the founder ofSpacehack.orgwhat was going on: she said that something like this would most likely require many levels of approval from inside Nasa itself, and that messages are probably carefully monitored for any unwanted content.No chance, then, that we'll ever see astronauts telling us the ugly truth about life among the stars: "Bloody boring up here: space toilet's broken and now the computer's playing up. It keeps saying 'I'm sorry, Dave, I can't do that'. WTF?!"
&bull; Amid all the kerfuffle about ISPs and piracy in Britain, the French parliament has managed to pass its controversial 'three strikes law'. That's particularly quizzical in the wake of a recent EU decision thatjudges need to be involved in such cases. You may be unsurprised to hear that BoingBoing's Cory Doctorowdoesn't think it will work anyway.&bull; Richard Waters in the Financial Times has a worthwhile breakdown ofthe revelations about Oracle's approach to buy Sun: namely that Oracle's preferred route was to buy the software part and let HP take the hardware (as we've suggested in the past).&bull; A fun Guardian link for you, explaining howprofessional medium Patricia Putt was tested last weekin an attempt to claim James Randi's $1m prize for proving that psychic powers exist. (The STOP PRESS addendum at the bottom tells you everything you need to know)You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Earlier today I went along toGoogle's Searchology event - a regular showcase where it flaunts some of the search-related technologies that the company's countless programming droids have been slaving away on.Now, you might wonder why Google - which dominates search completely - needs to flex its muscles and show off the things it's doing. It's very hard to imagine people switching away from it right now.True. But the projects that executives includingMarissa Meyerand engineering VPUdi Manberunveiled show a distinct thread that reveals quite a lot about what's on the minds of Googlers today.There's a lot more detailthe official Google blogand other sites such asSearchEngineLandandBits, but I'm going to highlight a few interesting ones that give us a glimpse inside Google's collective brain - and see what they tell us:- Google search options; a way to drill down or organise Google results more effectively, such as ordering results by time, by type (eg only reviews, only forum posts)- Mobile search; this is growing fast, and search will soon be synchronised between your desktop computer and your phone, so that it shares queries and data between the two machines (if you are signed in to your Google account)- More information in the snippet of information displayed in the search result, such as showing you the relevant bits of reviews through 'sentiment analysis', and pulling out metadata (eg a star rating) thanks to support for RDFa and Microformats- The Wonder Wheel; effectively a "related searches" system, but one that's displayed as an Ajax-driven spider diagram- Google Squared; a Labs project that creates on-the-fly research spreadsheets. Type in "small dog" (their example) and it builds a table of breeds, pictures, vital statistics and other information automagicallyAt a very high level, the interesting thing with all of these is really watching the directions that Google is pushing search, and what that means about the company's ideas. It shows that Google sees potential threats not from Yahoo, Microsoft or Ask (which provide some similar capabilities already) but from the likes ofTwitter, which looksready to pounce in real-time search, and from theyet-to-launchWolfram Alpha, which is a very powerful data munger.It also shows how Google is changing its basic premise away from being a traffic cop that sends you off to find what you're looking for, and into more of self-contained experience, where everything you need is given to you on the search page, rather than requiring you to click through.That makes sense from a user perspective (less time spent searching) but also from Google's... after all, if you've got one click to spend, perhaps if you're kept on the search results page you're more likely to use it to click on an advert.However, it's going to be difficult for some website owners to see this as a positive thing. Yes: it's great if you're the top result in a Google search for (say) reviews of the Star Trek movie. But if users can get what they want (a thumbs up or down) then they're not going to click through.In the press Q&amp;A with executives, one Swiss journalist pointed out that owners of information may have concerns if Google Squared pulls data from their pages but doesn't offer them much traffic in return - something that was sidestepped by Meyer."It presents a transformative view," she said. "But that said, we're still strong in our citations of where that data came from, ultimately driving clicks through."But while peoplemaystill click, the whole idea of giving more information on Google's pages is ultimately to drive those number of clicks down. Why bother reading a review if the relevant bits of information are given to you on Google's page? Information wants to be free,Worth pondering: we're already hearing content owners getting irritable over some aspects of Google's business, and if this is the company's long-term direction then we may be hearing more.On a different note, however, I bumped into Google CEOEric Schmidtoutside the presentation room, who told me that his favourite demo of the day was definitelySky Map: an Android application that allows you to see annotated star maps on your phone, search for particular constellations - and, most of all, use the GPS, accelerometers and compass to turn your phone into a window that overlays astronomical information on the sky.OK, so it'snot a new idea, but it did seem pretty well implemented.
French filesharers are in the crosshairs of the country's police once again, after politicians voted for a controversial "three strikes" law that could see alleged copyright infringers disconnected from the web without legal recourse.The so-calledHadopi billwas approved by the lower house on Tuesday, after a concerted push by Nicolas Sarkozy's conservative government to avoid a repeat of thesurprise rejectionthat took place last month. It is expected to be passed into law by the Senate later this week.The bill will create a new government agency called, the High Authority of Diffusion of the Art Works and Protection of Rights on the Internet – known as Hadopi for short.That group will oversee a process that has caused outrage and controversy among activists in France  – and have been called the world's tightest copyright restrictions.According to the proposals, the first strike involves sending a message to any user who is believed to have infringed copyright online, with a repeat message sent on the second instance. When the authorities are informed of a third transgression, the user's internet access could be closed down for a period of between two and 12 months - without judicial appeal.That aspect of the law has previously angered European officials, whorecently ruledthat any individuals accused of such activities cannot be disconnected without the involvement of the courts.But regardless of that stance, the law – which passed 296 votes to 233 - is another blow to digital rights campaigners, coming on the same day that an alliance of creative industries in Britainlobbied for the UK government to force ISPsto take a greater role in the prevention of piracy.The group, which included business and union representatives from the film, music and software industries, are arguing for a similar three strikes system involving "multiple educational warnings" and "a graduated series of technical solutions".However John Woodward, the chief executive of the Film Council threw a spanner in the works when he responded by offering an olive branch to ISPs suggesting that the content industryshould work harderto end the "Mexican stand-off" with internet users.
This week Jemima speaks with music wunderkinds Spotify to find out how they managed to woo the music industry into giving them hundreds of thousands of tracks for people to share amongst themselves.Also, Charles heads to Cambridge to meet the man behind the Microsoft research centre to find out what interesting projects they're working on, and the importance of research in a downturn.We've also got quite a haul of feedback from you all - particularly about Bobbie's choice of sleepwear - and we'll be delving into the greatest inventions that came from the hackers at last weekend's Yahoo Hack Day.There's also information on our next trip out of the studio as Tech Weekly takes a trip to cities with interesting digital projects on the go.  It's Bristol next, on Friday 22nd May -find out more detailsand come and join us to tell all about you and your work.And then there's the news. It's a packed show!Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
In their nine months of existence, more than 1bn iPhone applications, commonly known as "apps", have been downloaded from Apple's online store. Many are useful tools to enhance everyday activities such as socialising, shopping, travelling and pretending you're a spy; software that does smart things you never thought possible.But among Apple's list of the 20 bestselling apps "of all time" the biggest success story is iFart Mobile, which allows users to broadcast a flatulent parp in a variety of hilarious styles. Childish, yes, but it continues to earn the company behind it $10,000 a day. And iFart's business triumph has not only led to a plague of trumpeting copycats but also a craze for increasingly controversial apps that are more morally questionable than a Conservative MP with a moat. Here are some of the worst offenders:Girlfriend TrackerPolygamists and cheating boyfriends are presumably the market for this "handy" tool that allows men to calculate the menstruation cycle of their partners so they can "decide how to plan your night".Sound GrenadeThe bestseller in the "annoyance" genre of apps, it emits a high-pitched sound when opened that is designed to annoy and agitate anyone in your vicinity.Baby ShakerWithdrawn after complaints to Apple, the game allowed players to silence a crying virtual baby by shaking their iPhone. If successful, two large red Xs appeared over the baby's eyes.iSnortAn unofficial app that, combined with a credit card and a crisp fiver, helps users simulate chopping and snorting cocaine.I Am RichA glowing ruby display you could download for $999. The app did nothing - except let people know that you had a grand to burn. Apple removed it after just eight sales.Boom! BOOM! Shotgun ProThe French makers of this virtual handgun claim that it helps in the recreation of "childhood games of playing cops and robbers".Swine Flu TrackerKeep updated on your current threat level with this free app that plots the latest outbreaks and scares.Drunk SniperTilting the iPhone allows users to engage in an "amusing" simulation of being drunk and unable to pee without splashing the loo seat.
Greece has stopped Google from adding further photographs from the country to its Street View application, which provides 360-degree street level imagery, because of its concerns over privacy.The Hellenic Data Protection Authority has imposed the suspension pending "additional information". It has asked Google how long the images taken will be retained and what steps the company is taking to protect the rights of people caught on camera, including highlighting when they are being photographed by its fleet of cars."Simply marking the car is not considered an adequate form of notification," the authority said. "The authority has reserved judgment on the legality of the service pending the submission of additional information, and until that time will not allow [Google] to start gathering photographs."The authority has suspended a similar mapping service, covering Athens, Salonika and Larissa, run by the Greek internet service provider Kapou.Street View, which uses images collected using a fleet of modified cars,  was launched in the US in May 2007 and is alsoavailable in the UK, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, France, Spain and Italy. Google has been collecting imagery in Athens since April.Itsays the level of detail contained is the same one would get from driving down a road and that its technology automatically blurs faces and car number plates.
Highlighting a growing fear among Greeks of the threat posed by "creeping" new technologies, Athens's data protection agency has prohibited vehicles manned by Google's Street View drivers from the country.The all-powerful watchdog said the search engine would have to provide "additional information" and concrete guarantees that the service was not an invasion of personal privacy before expanding the programme to Greece."We are not going to allow our country to become a Big Brother society," said one agency official, who asked not to be named.Additional information would include telling the agency how long it planned to keep images taken by Street View vans and what steps it would take to alert residents of their rights if they were liable to be photographed.Advance warnings by the drivers of camera-equipped Google cars were inadequate and not enough to fend off fears of intrusion of privacy, the authority said.In part as a legacy of seven years of harsh military rule, Greece has draconian rules around protecting private data – edicts that for years have made it extremely hard for governments to install state-of-the-art monitoring technologies. The abolition of CCTV cameras – although a relative rarity in Greece compared with the UK and other EU states  – was a major demand of protesters when violence erupted in the country last December.Asked whether the clampdown on Google Street View was an extreme measure – given that it is legal to take photographs in public places across Greece – another watchdog official said: "Photographs are not normally made available globally, and therefore there is no risk of violation of personal data."The Greek agency also prohibited a rival surveillance service operated by ISP Kapou, a Greek company, saying its images posed a similar threat.Echoing a widespread view, Yannis Papadopoulos, a Greek leftist who agreed with the watchdog's precautionary stance, said: "Privacy as a concept or even word may not exist in our language but all this snooping is simply Orwellian. We won't let it pass."Google insisted that protecting privacy was a priority for the street-mapping service it launched in the US two years ago and which is now operational in nine countries."Google takes privacy very seriously, and that's why we have put in place a number of features, including the blurring of faces and licence plates, to ensure that Street View will respect local norms when it launches in Greece," the company said.A "dialogue" with the Hellenic Data Protection authority was ongoing, it said."We believe that launching in Greece will offer enormous benefits to both Greek users and the people elsewhere who are interested in taking a virtual tour of some of its many tourists attractions."
Velvet Assassin is a stealth game set behind enemy lines, played out in 12 sepia-tinted flashback missions with cut&nbsp;scenes explaining a bleaker present-day picture. And as your lithe heroine sets about her tasks – from sabotaging fuel dumps to assassinating Nazi targets – it's all about keeping your silhouetted profile hidden until the perfect moment to strike.This is not just a plot imperative, it's also because once the alarm is raised you'll find clunky aiming and dodgy AI undoing your best-laid plans. Avoid this, however (which is the whole point of a stealth game), and you'll find a well paced and plotted, unique second world war adventure.
In all the Wii fuss, it's easy to forget that casual gaming on consoles really started on the PS2 back in 2004 with the karaoke game SingStar.From post-pub party to pre-teen sing-along, the SingStar games have bridged most age divides. Release on the PS3 saw the online store integrated into the game and allowed players to buy and download new tracks. But the real innovation has waited until now.Yes, SingStar finally has wireless microphones. Any concerns about a drop in quality from the wired version are expunged as soon as you pick them up. Sturdy and weighty, the mics feel well made – and, more importantly, allow you to show off while pretending to be Simon Le Bon (SingStar 80s) or Amy Winehouse (SingStar Pop).To coincide with the release, Sony has launched a new disc, SingStar Pop, with bands ranging from the Police to the Killers. A perfectly acceptable disc, but it's the wireless mics that will get the party started.
The sort of hoes one generally finds in videogames are not of the soil-tilling variety, but, happily, the Japanese publisher 505 Games has an endearing penchant for turning domestic activities into cute, addictive DS epics.Gardening Mama builds impressively on the runaway success of Cooking Mama, and is one of those rare efforts that runs the risk of giving the games industry a good reputation. Presented with a bare, virtual garden, you must plant seeds and bulbs, tend to them (adding fertiliser, weeding, watering and so on), and embellish your burgeoning bucolic paradise with garden furniture – plus equip Mama with new outfits when you start receiving awards for your green-fingered epics.As someone who spent an entire childhood trying to wriggle out of (non-virtual) gardening duties, I was amazed by Gardening Mama's sheer playability. The process of planting and nurturing, with a mini-game for each stage, requires a surprising amount of precision, and there's a real feeling you're creating something unique and lasting. One of those rare games that different generations will enjoy playing together.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
It's my birthday today so rather than blog about, say, Red Steel 2requiring the motion plus add-onto play – brave but foolhardy, although how many people buy FPS games on the Wii anyway? – I thought I'd go down the nostalgia route. Yes, it's time for some game-related birthday memories.For me the 80s were a good time for this, with C64 games regularly arriving on May 12th. And getting a "real" game felt even more special then considering the amount of tape-to-tape piracy that used to go on in the playground.The 90s bought an Amiga and SNES, although the former was tarnished by coming bundled with a copy of the truly terrible Manchester United Europe. Not that I was complaining – the early 90s were a bit of a gaming golden age. Things are much better now though of course – and even if you disagree, new versions of most half-decent retro titles are readily available to download or buy for 360/PS3/DS etc – but for the sake of this blog let's pretend not. So go on then.  ZX81? Manic Miner? Flashback? Sensible Soccer? Sega Saturn? - what was your greatest game-related  birthday present?
&bull; An alliance of creative industry groups - including the BPI, Publisher's Association and Equity - is calling forthe government to force internet providers to cut off filesharers. In response, the BBC reports comments from Charles Dunstone, the CEO of Carphone Warehouse (nowBritain's biggest ISP) who says that it'snot the job of ISPs to police their users.&bull; Meanwhile Ofcom, the regulator that would most likely take a role in that process, has busied itself by highlighting the reason why your wireless internet may not be up to scratch: baby monitors. A report looking into the  found thatunlicensed devices operating in the same spectrum as Wi-Fiwere responsible for interference and loss of service, reports PC Pro.&bull; I meant to post this one after Jack linked to it last week, but here it is anyway:YooouuuTuuube- a little site that layers YouTube videos and makes them really trippy. Prime example:this Alice in Wonderland mashup.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Some of the biggest names in British entertainment will tomorrow today call for Britain's internet service providers to police their customers' activity to stem the flood of online piracy and safeguard an estimated 800,000 jobs in the creative economy.The call, from a unique coalition of business and union leaders, comes as Lord Carter puts the finishing touches to his final Digital Britain report, due out on 16 June. As part of that process, Carter has proposed a Rights Agency, backed by media regulator Ofcom, which would bring the ISPs and media owners together to fight illegal peer-to-peer sharing of music, films and software.But at The Future of the Creative Economy conference in London today, an alliance including the Federation Against Copyright Theft, the Publishers' Association, BPI and actor's union Equity, will call for tighter regulation, with ISPs disconnecting persistent illegal file-sharers."It is now time for the government to be bold and to offer full and proper protection for the music and other content-producing industries in the UK," according to former BBC director general Lord John Birt. Last year the government brokered a deal between the two factions which led to persistent illegal file-sharers receiving letters from their ISPs warning that they could face prosecution if they continued. Carter's plan for the Rights Agency includes formalising that process, through legislation, but leaving sanctions to the media owners themselves.In a joint policy statement to be published today, however, the alliance will point out that "suggestions for rights-owners to take many thousands of legal actions seeking damages against individual file-sharers in court are neither practicable nor proportionate".Instead they appear to be returning to calls for a 'three strikes and you're out' system under which pirates receive "multiple educational warnings" and if they are ignored, "a graduated series of technical solutions" would be applied to "prevent further illegal activity". The  industry estimates six million people in Britain illegally share files regularly, clocking up over a billion illegal music and almost 100 million illegal film downloads in 2007.The ISPs, however, consistently maintained they will resist calls to become debt-collectors for the media industry.The call comes as another central plank of Lord Carter's Digital Britain plan will be laid down tomorrow  as his lieutenant, Kip Meek, publishes his plans to restructure Britain's airwaves to get broadband services to everyone in Britain by 2012.He is expected to recommend caps on the amount of mobile phone spectrum that individual companies can own and call for part of the spectrum that will be freed-up by the switchoff of analogue TV in 2012 to be set aside for mobile broadband provided whoever buys it agrees to near universal coverage.
Develop magazine has released this year's list of the100 top videogame studios in the world. Based on an array of criteria including sales data and critical success,Blizzardis at the top of the pile thanks to WoW, with Nintendo (last year's number one), Rockstar North, EA Canada and Capcom making up the rest of the top five.There's an impressive 21 UK companies on the list including the well-known likes of Traveler's Tales (12) Media Molecule (18) and Lionhead (22), as well as some names you may not recognise. RuneScape creatorJagexis there, as isEurocom, a veteran specialist in movie tie-ins and other franchises. Social gaming company,Playfish, which creates games for Facebook, MySpace and Bebo, has also made it in - an interesting endorsement for this emerging sector.You can find profiles of all the developershere. So, is your favourite studio on here?
Unlike it's considerable army of users, Wii Fit is sitting still. The game has just enjoyed its sixth week at the top of the software charts, seeing off contenders like Godfather 2 and Wolverine without breaking a sweat.There are obvious reasons for its success. The Wii console remains ludicrously popular, of course, and most of the in-house titles have done well. On top of that, in Wii Fit Nintendo has a game that offers both the hilarity of the system's novelty interface and, ostensibly, a means of getting fitter. This is the motherlode. Most people hate exercising but know they ought to do it, Wii Fit offers the prospect of working outandhaving fun - at the same time. And what's more it's all in the warmth and comfort of your own living room.The question of whether it works or not, as with many products with supposed health benefits, is largely irrelevant. It's all about perception; we want tofeellike we're doing something positive, and are prepared to be led into this illusion by marketers. Furthermore, there's an understanding behind this transaction that while some of us make the purchase to get fit, what we really want to do is have a laugh pretending to sledge down a mountain.The way in which Nintendo is building this relationship with its consumer is the interesting part.This is the key thing. Wii Fit is being sold, primarily to women, not as a game, but as a health brand. Therecent television advertsstarring ex-pop star Louise Redknap, draw heavily on the techniques used to market products like low cholestoral diary spreads and pro-biotic yogurt drinks. There are documentary-style interview moments intercut with Louise using and enjoying the product. It's all very naturalistic and chatty - we are encouraged to view Wii as the ultimate guilt-free consumer product: fun but healthy, indulgent, but also a benefit to the whole family. Someone in Nintendo's marketing department knows the correct buttons to push for this demographic.At the same time, Nintendo is getting out on the road, demo-ing the game at shopping malls and fitness centres - which, again, mimics the techniques for pushing food brands. There's also a dedicated website, which is definitely not called wiifit.com, that's far too unintuitive - it'sFeel Great Britain- and it's filled with user testimonials and health tips from fitness experts.This isn't just about reaching a new audience - it's more subtle and ambitious than that. In effect, Wii Fit has been removed from the traditional videogame marketing cycle. Every other release is treated like the launch of a new album or movie - a one-off event with a limited window of publicity potential. But here, the advertising emphasises personal choice and circumstances - "when you've had a year off from exercising, which a lot of pregnant women do, it's a really easy way to get your fitness and confidence back," says Louise.In this way, the product is aligned to personal circumstances - it's there whenyouneed it. And vitally, it's not just about physical fitness it's about confidence. The pregnancy thing is smart too - it's a time of personal re-evaluation and re-assessment, and to brands that represents an opportunity.Wii Fit, then, is a world apart from every other game in the chart - not only because it's hanging around more than a couple of weeks, but because it doesn't obey the rules; doesn't even know them. These are new rules. The question is, can any other game work the same angle?
Facebook is under fire over its policies once again, after it emerged that the social network has refused to close groups that promote Holocaust denial.Over the weekend Facebook responded to criticism from Brian Cuban, a lawyer from Dallas and the brother of internet billionaire Mark, has beenrunning a campaign to get Facebook to remove such groupson the grounds that they promote hate speech.Although the groups are small, they are typical of neo-Nazi messageboards: posting links to Aryan supremacy websites, adding pictures of concentration camps and featuring members who use swastikas as their logo instead of photos of themselves.One group, which calls the Holocaust "a series of lies", has messages suggesting the German people were manipulated by Jewish interests, while elsewhere one member says that Jews are "snakes and liars". It's intentionally offensive stuff, and illegal in many European countries.Over the weekend, Facebook responded to the criticism in a manner which has appeared to exacerbate things, rather than quieten them down.Inan email exchange with Facebook staff, Cuban was told that the groups in question didn't express theright sort of hatred:Specifically, we are sensitive to groups that threaten violence towards people and these groups are taken down.  We also remove groups that express hatred towards individuals and groups that are sponsored by recognized terrorist organizations.  We do not, however, take down groups that speak out against countries, political entities, or ideas.Additionally, a story from Chris Matyszczyk at CNet that highlighted the issue drew a response fromFacebook spokesman Barry Schnitt:The bottom line is that, of course, we abhor Nazi ideals and find Holocaust denial repulsive and ignorant. However, we believe people have a right to discuss these ideas and we want Facebook to be a place where ideas, even controversial ideas, can be discussed. Of course, we have some limits.This angered Cuban ("Has Facebook now taken a moral subjective stance on behalf of all users on how such groups should be dealt with?") and caused a small storm of protest from users who believe Facebook is acting hypocritically.They argue that while the site is happy toban pictures of breastfeeding mothersbecause of nudity, it isn't prepared to stand firm on closing groups that would be illegal in many countries.The issues of Nazi hate speech has come up many times before online.Yahoo had a long-running dispute with the French governmentover its auction site, which allowed the sale of Nazi memorabilia (illegal under French law) while eBay has decided to ban the sale of Nazi memorabilia full stop - even in America, where the trade is not banned.Dealing with this subject is always tricky ground - and it is a little surprising that Facebook has managed to grow so large without this problem rearing its head before.But perhaps the argument is really about where Facebook puts it priorities. Given that the company runs a 150-strong team of so-called "porn cops" to patrol for risque images -profiled at length recently in Newsweek- why does it feel that hate speech isn't worth the same amount of trouble?In many ways, the controversy is a direct product of America's conflicted relationship with morals. The country is largely puritanical when it comes to sex, yet cherishes the right to free speech even when (in some cases) that becomes the right to offend. That's at the heart of Facebook's dilemma: it grew up in a culture where it's wrong to see a nipple, but somebody suggesting the death of millions of people - and calling them snakes and liars - is merely a conspiracy story is acceptable within the limits of free speech.In Europe, the see-saw is more evenly balanced - nudity isn't necessarily offensive, but racial supremacists are roundly condemned.  How do you balance those two? How do you respect the laws of a country without impeding upon the rights of users in other nations? How does Facebook decide where to draw the line between offensiveness and hatred?This is a clash between corporate interests and cultures: and I don't think we've heard the last of it.
Pop!Tech 2008 - Saul Griffith: Photograph by Kris Krug/Pop!Tech, used under CC licenseA while back I went to meetSaul Griffith, a shoeless Australian inventor, entrepreneur andcard-carrying genius. It's fair to say that Saul, who works from the control tower of an abandoned airfield nestled by the San Francisco Bay, is obsessed with energy.His current company is developingwind energy systems, but his fetish goes further than that. Saul's fascinated with how much energy we consume - so much so that he came up with his ownpersonal energy auditto work out whether he was a good global citizen or not. The answer: despite his best intentions he wasn't (but the biggest proportion of his energy footprint was actually spent badly by design: the energy expended by the government on his behalf).Griffith's presentation of the problem is entertaining, but the underlying message is a little more prosaic: if we want to ensure a better future, we need to keep on top of resources - and to do that, we need to cut back on the amount of energy we use. It's not glamorous, but his case is persuasive.That's why it's so interesting to look at thereal problems that the internet's hunger for energy causes, andwatch the response. It's a real problem that's being addressed across the industry in different ways - but remains troubling because regardless of how efficient we make computers, data centres and the rest of the internet, we're simply using the system a lot more.Yes, some argue that internet use reduces energy use elsewhere (buying from Amazon means you don't have to drive to the shops, for example) - but the hard evidence is far from clear.Why? Because very few people talk openly about the facts involved. We see what companies allow us to see, but the rest is hidden behind their corporate security. This is an iceberg of a problem.That's something recognised by another energy obsessive, Rich Brown - an analyst at Lawrence Berkeley Labs in California who has conducted one of the most detailed investigations into the energy footprint of data centres.Referring to Obama's $787bn economic stimulus package – which contains provision for $11bn investment in so-called "smart grid" electricity projects - Brown told me that it was too simplistic to think that technology can provide the answer to environmental problems."There's a big marketing and lobbying campaign by the IT industry to sell information and communications technology as one of the solutions to climate change," he said when I interviewed him forthe aforementioned article. "In the stimulus bill there's a bunch of money for various IT sustainability projects. There's potential there, but it doesn't just happen automatically."Even if we don't quite know the scale of the problem we're up against, we can wonder about the consequences.A couple of weeks ago, discussing the situation with a friend who runs the engineering team at a very popular website, he put forward an idea that tickled me. Could cloud computing could become a middle class guilt-trip in the future? Would we ever think about it like a low-cost airline - a technology that's recognised as convenient but bad for the environment?It's a seductive allegory. Storing data online has real environmental and financial costs, but they are currently hidden away from us - much like the costs of air travel were or subsidised in the past.Now imagine a world where using your computer a lot is viewed with a sort of scepticism by green campaigners. Your decision to pipe data to your wireless laptop or mobile is seen by some as a wasteful disregard for the environment. Every download comes with a calorie-counting note about how much energy was used in the transaction.Would it solve the problem? Not a bit - because when the cloud peaks and becomes truly ubiquitous, available to almost everyone on the planet through their phone or computer, the cat will be out of the bag.Stemming this future problem requires forethought and action. It's the sort of thing that doesn't have a glitzy solution, just the same combination of an abstemious approach and system-level redesigns that Saul Griffith advocates.If we don't do it now, when cloud computing has its RyanAir moment, we'll see the needle slam up uncontrollably - and the only people to blame will be ourselves.
Every industry likes to have a way of honouring its successes, and generating at least one publicity binge a year, and those are things the Webby Awards do for the online business. The event might not rank with the Oscars, Emmys, Grammys or the Tony Awards, but it's impressive enough that the Webbys have actually survived for 13 years.Most people go to theWebby Awardssite for two reasons: to vote for their favourites in the People's Voice awards, and to see who won. A few people will also look up the acceptance speeches, which are famous for being limited to five words: brevity encourages wit.It's probably doing well at the moment because the2009 winnerswere announced last week. But even when there's nothing much on, the Webbys site should be worth a visit. With links to five nominees in each of about 70 categories, the latest awards list provides links to more than 300 great websites. (Some appear in more than one category.)Almost all the links published over the past three or four years are still worth a click, and you can easily go right back to1997.The problem with the Webby Awards site is that it does little to encourage that sort of general use. Lists of nominations tend to be boring, but the Webby list doesn't even have thumbnail screen shots. Nor does it provide any "back story" – such as, for example, a screen shot and a quick 50 words about where the site came from, what it does, and why you might visit it.It does have someevent photos, at least for 2005-08, and links to somevideo coverage, if you look for them.You might think that the event photos wouldn't feature anyone of interest, but they include people such as Laurie Anderson, the Beastie Boys, David Bowie, David Byrne, Steve Colbert, Al Gore, Ariana Huffington, Prince and Lou Reed. And being a geek, I'm also interested in seeing people such as Craig Newmark (Craigslist), Steve Chen and Chad Hurley (YouTube), Meg Whitman (eBay) and Ben Huh (icanhascheezburger).According to the site: "The 12th Annual Webby Awards received nearly 10,000 entries from over 60 countries and all 50 states and generated over 750 million media impressions worldwide." That's a huge audience, and it must surely be worth spending some of the sponsorship money/entry fees on making the site more attractive to casual visitors.Another problem is that the Webbys are mostly about US sites (in spite of some notable successes for the BBC and the Guardian), and overwhelmingly in English. This was fine when the web was mostly American; it isn't now. It must be worth considering the idea of having three winners in each category by adding a best site not written primarily in English.The Webbys are not as important as the Oscars, but the Webbys site ought to be more competitive withthe Oscars sitethan it is now. After all, it's our business.
At the Microsoft TechEd conference now taking place in Los Angeles, Microsoft senior vice president Bill Veghte said: ""We're tracking well to deliver Windows 7 in time for holiday availability based on the groundswell of feedback we received from the partner ecosystem, customers and through our own internal testing from pre-beta to now," reports theWall Street Journal. (Reutersalso has the story.)Previous statements have been limited to "within three years of Vista" -- and that was held back so as to miss the Christmas shopping season. (Not every PC manufacturer would have been able to ship before Christmas, which was seen as not providing a level playing field. However, Microsoft did make Vista available to businesses in November 2006.)Veghte also said that "large customers including Del Monte Foods and window maker Pella Corp planned to deploy Windows 7 early". Companies typically wait until the first Service Pack appears after 12-18 months, since this provides some assurance that major bugs have been shaken out.Windows watchers have long assumed that Windows 7 will ship this year, with some estimates much earlier than others. That's reasonable based on the quality of the public beta code and the fact that Microsoft has said there will only be one RC (release candidate) version, not two or three.Microsoft, however, always repeats the "ship when ready" mantra, partly because the final stages are beyond its control. It depends on the PC manufacturers to sort out their own Windows 7 installations and get PCs into the retail channels.The next important date to be announced will be the "Windows 7 free" date:  Microsoft tells customers that it will provide a "free" (plus shipping costs) upgrade to Windows 7 for anyone who buys a PC after a certain date, to encourage them to buy rather than wait.Frankly, it should make that date now. In fact, it would be a great idea to offer Windows 7 to everyone who ever bought a Vista PC, but it's not going to happen. It would enrage the shareholders who are hoping Windows 7 will kick off an upgrade cycle that is going to boost the Windows Client division's declining profits.Update: Microsoft can do RC to RTM in two months, and OEMs can do RTM to the shelves in two months, so the earliest date for Windows 7 would be around September 1. If Microsoft assumed three months instead of two (because it's not rushing) then it could still make November 1. That makes the date Acer gave --October 23-- plausible. It could be earlier, but Ed Bott tells me the US holiday shopping season starts by November 1, so it probably won't be later. Unless something goes wrong.
Codemasters has announced its first new cricket simulation since the rather lacklustre Brian Lara Cricket 2007. Developed by Australian studioTransmission Games, Ashes Cricket 2009 is hitting shelves in July on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC, with a Wii due "later in the year". From the press release:"Delivering all the exciting, athletic, skilful and technical elements of the sport, the game's comprehensive 'Ashes' mode will feature all five Tests played out at carefully detailed recreations of each authentic venue. In addition, gamers will also be able to play Test matches, One Day Internationals, 20 over games and a series of challenge modes. The high definition current generation versions will feature full online multiplayer as well as support for local multiplayer games."I enjoyed cricket sims in the 8- and 16bit eras, when titles like Graham Gooch's Test Cricket and Codemasters' early Brian Lara Cricket titles navigated the complexities of the sport via jolly 2D visuals and joyously simplified interfaces. But simulation has failed to evolve in the same way as baseball titles - there's no cricket version of the excellent MLB: The Show series. I think that's a shame.So what can be done to modernise our summer sport of choice for the current generation? What features should Transmission be considering? The first person to suggest an AI streaker will be barred.
Monday's post-weekend round-up of our hand-picked games news stories from around the web.• Two Notes on Games and Obesity &gt;&gt;watercoolergames.org• Storytelling In Games and the Use of Narration (one man's exploration of interactivty and narrative) &gt;&gt;games.slashdot.org• Industry confronts Govt over 'disappointing' Digital Britain report &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Charlie Brooker producing new games TV show &gt;&gt;mcvuk.com• Browser Game Pick: Today I Die (Daniel Benmergui, Experimental Game Design panellist from GDC2009) &gt;&gt;feedproxy.google.com• Interviews (with lots of wildly popular indie game developer interviews) &gt;&gt;feedproxy.google.com• Indie Developers! Make Some Money! Now! (Flash game developers sought) &gt;&gt;feedproxy.google.com• Pathé Movies Headed To Xbox Live UK (convergent reality as British films make outing on console) &gt;&gt;edge-online.com• Guitar Hero Franchise Nets $2 Billion (that's a lot of air guitar) &gt;&gt;edge-online.com• The Making Of: Populous &gt;&gt;edge-online.com• 8,450 Game Biz Workers Lost Jobs Since July 2008 (most are from US, but UK figures highly too) &gt;&gt;gamasutra.com• Unreleased Duke Nuke Forever Renders Posted (may it rest in peace) &gt;&gt;escapistmagazine.com• Guitar Hero 5, Band Hero, DJ Hero confirmed - wow, loads more heroism! &gt;&gt;uk.gamespot.com• Sony Adds Machinima Studio To Playstation 3's Home - make movies at home! &gt;&gt;nytimes.com• Microsoft's Xbox takes on the television networks (XBL Primetime makes TV interactive) &gt;&gt;cnbc.comFollow us all week ondelicious.
Personally I've always rather liked having a choice of console.  SNES/Mega Drive? Playstation/N64? Heck for me it goes back to the home computer days of the C64/ZX Spectrum (C64, obviously). Part of the fun was making your choice and sticking with it, religiously standing by your decision even in the face of overwhelming evidence. Yes, that's me hanging onto the N64 well into 2000. But what if there was only one console to choose from? We're not that there yet, butSony CEO Howard Stringer recently talkedabout the evolution of the PS3 into an open platform."We developed brand new, absolutely incredible technology for the PlayStation 3 (PS3), but the cost was high. We've adopted a slightly different approach now, and are evolving the PS3 into a platform for web services,"The Playstation Network – Sony's online service for the PS3 - is key to this, with Stringer looking to spread it to new hardware."Next we will be expanding the PlayStation Network to hardware other than the PS3, because the number of PS3 units sold puts a limit on the scale of the network possible. Sony has a vertical structure for each product line, an organisational structure that resists change, so it will take time to achieve this network growth. However, a large number of employees share my opinion on this."So what do you think then? Is the PS3 going "open" the first step towards a single console platform? And if so is that what you want? Or would you rather have a choice of what console to buy?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; European competition regulators are due to rule on the long-standing Intel antitrust case this week - and Reuters is reporting those old "sources familiar with the case" who say thatIntel is set to be found guiltyof coercing computer manufacturers to favour its technology over that of rivals.&bull; American military officials have said they would not rule outresponding to a cyberattack with physical force, according to Stars and Stripes. We recently reported on Nato officials suggesting thata virtual A-bomb could be required to prevent future internet attacks- but with language like that, it's a shot across the bows ofPresident Obama's cybersecurity review, which we're told is due this week.&bull; Some interesting reading over the weekend, including this piece from Thomas Crampton, highlighting theNew York Times'  botched closure of the International Herald Tribune's website. Particularly intriguing when you consider thereports that Rupert Murdoch is considering pay-for-news models, includingmicropayments at the Wall Street Journal.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Each summer we're subjected to a string of arguments over whether getting an A-level or GCSE is getting easier. But thanks to officials in Denmark, it may be time to stop talking about dumbing down exams and start talking about wiring them up instead.According to reports in the Danish media, ministers are about to trial a system where A-level students are allowed to take internet-connected computers into exams.The reason, say officials, is that collecting facts and figures is now a task best left to computers - and that youngsters taking exams shouldn't necessarily be blocked from one of the tools they are routinely expected to use in their studies."It is a good way to get historical facts or an article that may be useful in a written civics exam, for example," Søren Vagner, a consultant with the Ministry of Educationtold Danish newspaper MetroXpresslast week.At a simple level, this makes a lot of sense. The internet is now such a powerful research tool that it has done away with lots of the old methods like learning by rote - turning facts into commodities in the same way that calculators dispense with some basic mathematical activities. Why bother remembering facts and figures when you can call them up on demand with a computer?There are a number of potential pitfalls, however, not least protecting against plagiarism and the problem of students lifting information from online sources to pad out work.Vagner was quoted as saying that examiners would keep a close eye on what students submitted, and would conduct regular, randomised checks of the web pages that they had used in the course of their research to keep tabs.Checking for plagiarism is relatively easy, of course (a simple web search for groups of words would do half the job) and web-based plagiarism is something thatschools are already trying to cope with.But the biggest problem is one that doesn't seem to be addressed: the possibility for students (or other people) to collude over their exams.Something as simple as giving a kid internet access could easily open Pandora's Box - because you can be sure some enterprising hacker will find a way to escape a teacher's gaze and talk to, whether that's other students in the exam hall or somebody else entirely.According tothis report in Politiken, the new system will be tested during mock exams later this year with a view to rolling out on a wider scale in 2011.I've contacted the ministry to find out more - but so far there's been no response.
Distinctive brain patterns could become the latest subject of biometric scanning after EU researchers successfully tested technology to verify ­identities for security checks.The experiments, which also examined the potential of heart rhythms to authenticate individuals, were conducted under an EU-funded inquiry into biometric systems that could be deployed at airports, borders and in sensitive locations to screen out terrorist suspects.Another series of tests fitted a "sensing seat" to a truck to record each driver's characteristic seated posture in an attempt to spot whether commercial vehicles had been hijacked.Details of the Humabio (Human Monitoring and Authentication using Biodynamic Indicators and Behaviourial Analysis) pilot projects have been published amid further evidence of biometric technologies penetrating everyday lives.The Foreign Office plans to spend up to £15m on fixed and mobile security devices that use methods including "Facial recognition (two and/or three dimensional), fingerprint recognition, iris recognition and vein imaging palm recognition".The biometric sensors and systems, it appears, will primarily be deployed to protect UK embassies around the world. The contract, about which the FCO declined to elaborate further, also mentions "surveillance" and "data collection" services.The Home Office, meanwhile, has confirmed rapid expansion plans of automated facial recognition gates: 10 will be operating at major UK airports by August.Passengers holding the latest generation of passports travelling through Manchester and Stansted are already being checked by facial-recognition cameras.Biometric identity checks are also becoming more common in the world of commercial gadgets. New versions of computer laptops and mobile phones are entering the market with built-in fingerprint scanners to prevent other people running up large bills and misusing pilfered hi-tech equipment.Among security experts there is a preference for developing biometric security devices that do not rely on measuring solely one physiological trait: offering choice makes scanning appear less intrusive and allows for double-checking.The holy grail of the biometrics industry is a scanning mechanism that is socially acceptable in an era of mass transit and 100 per cent accurate. Researchers are eager to produce 'non-contact' biometric systems that can check any individual's identity at a distance.The US government's secretive IARPA (Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity) is seeking development proposals to enhance such technologies. Insisting that it is not interested in 'contact-type' biometrics, it asks for ideas that will "significantly advance the intelligence community's ability to achieve high-confidence match performance ... [for] high fidelity biometric signatures".The Humabio project, based in Greece, is involved more in blue-sky scientific thinking than in intelligence work. Its research, highlighted in the latest issue of Biometric Technology Today, is at a "pre-commercial, proof-of-concept stage".
