Facebook&apos;s Snapchat rival, Slingshot, is now available outside the US.The ephemeral messaging app launchedin the US mid-June, with a couple of unique features. Most notable was the concept of &quot;paying&quot; to see a picture with your own snap in return, something the developers hoped would encourage a community &quot;where everybody is a creator and nobody is just a spectator&quot;.&quot;Since we launched last week, we’ve heard from lots of people around the world who are excited to give Slingshot a try. Starting today, we’re expanding our initial launch and making Slingshot available internationally,&quot; Slingshot says in ablogpost.By requiring users to &quot;sling&quot; a different photo back to the sender, as well as by offering a single button for instant photo replies, Slingshot aims to encourage whole conversations to play out on the app, rather than the disconnected snaps common on Snapchat.The appis availablefor iPhones running iOS 7 and Android devices with Jelly Bean or KitKat. Unlike Poke, Facebook&apos;s first attempt to clone Snapchat, it doesn&apos;t require a Facebook account to use. Instead, it picks up the model of another Facebook service, WhatsApp, and lets users find each other with their mobile phone numbers.Users are, however, offered the option of linking up with their Facebook account, and are also asked whether they want to upload their contacts list to the company&apos;s servers to easily find people they know.With Slingshot, Facebook&apos;s portfolio of apps grows larger still. The company&apos;s top tier includes Instagram and WhatsApp, two standalone services that it acquired for billions of dollars, as well as Facebook Messenger and Paper, breakout apps designed to offer a streamlined experience for certain aspects of the social network – specifically, messages and the news feed.•Facebook relaunches second Snapchat clone
Streaming audio service SoundCloud has revampedits iPhone app, with Android to follow, as it looks to capitalise on the fact that two-thirds of its listening now happens on mobile devices – up from half six months ago.The update has removed the ability to record audio and upload it to SoundCloud in order to focus on listening, boiled down to three key features. First, there’s a feed of music, either from friends and followed artists, or trending tracks from specific genres.Second, there’s a search function to search for music, comedy, podcasts and other audio from SoundCloud’s entire catalogue. And third, the ability for users to access their personal collection of playlists and liked tracks.Unlike the existing SoundCloud iPhone app, users do not have to be registered and logged in to use it: if they’re not, they can stream the trending tracks instead. Meanwhile, the app is simpler to navigate around, with bigger, bolder artwork for tracks and creator profile pages.“For us, it’s a snapshot of how our vision of the listener experience has been evolving. Can we make it more visual and simpler, so it’s easier to discover and hear more stuff, to collect things and listen to them again,” SoundCloud co-founder and chief technology officer Eric Wahlforss told the Guardian.“The old app has been around for a while now, and it’s really time to change. It’s been completely rewritten from scratch, so it’s way more stable, and we can roll new features out much more quickly. And boiling the app down to a much simpler essence is going to influence what we do back on the desktop in the future.”Berlin-based SoundCloud launched in 2008 as a way for musicians to post songs online – including embedding them on other sites – and get feedback from fans and fellow artists.It has since grown into the second biggest streaming music service in the world, behind only YouTube. SoundCloud tracks reach 250m listeners a month, with 12 hours of audio uploaded every minute. The company claims that 90% of those tracks get played, more than half within an hour of being posted.SoundCloud also played an important role in the rise of Lorde, who uploaded afive-song EP called The Love Clubto her SoundCloud profile in 2012, including Royals, the track that took the world by storm the following year.“In the beginning, we were fantasising about someone breaking through on SoundCloud and becoming a number one artist. Then Lorde did exactly that,” said Wahlforss. “And now we have big artists interacting with up and coming artists, finding new talent and breaking them through their own profiles, reposting their songs.”The new app reflects SoundCloud’s increased focus on its apps, thanks to that growth in mobile listening. Its Android app has some of the iPhone version’s new features already, with the rest to follow in the coming weeks and months. Other features on SoundCloud’s mobile to-do list include playlist creation, audio caching (for offline listening) and better search filters and suggestions.“We’re growing extremely fast, and the growth is driven by mobile, so that’s why we’re focusing almost all of our attention in terms of the listening experience on mobile,” said Wahlforss.“We think there is so much still to do: this version marks the first step. We spent the first five years of the business focusing on building the creator community. Now, since a while back, we’ve been focusing on the listeners. Creators told us they want to build an audience on SoundCloud and connect with those fans. The best way we can help them is by building a larger audience.”And perhaps also by paying them? Unlike Spotify and other streaming services, SoundCloud doesn’t pay royalties to music labels, publishers and collecting societies (and by extension, to musicians, songwriters and other creators).Creators uploaded their tracks knowing that this was the case, seeing value in SoundCloud as a promotional platform, as well as one that would provide them with useful analytics on where their listeners were in the world – for example to help plan tours.It’s been notable over the last year that while some high-profile artists have criticised Spotify for paying low royalties, SoundCloud has escaped similarly-public brickbats for paying nothing.Artists may be comfortable with its promotional nature – the fact that SoundCloud wasn’t making money itself helped – but behind the scenes, publishers in particular have been grumbling about the lack of royalties.In 2014, with a reach of 250m people – not to mention a$60m funding round in Januaryvaluing the company at $700m – SoundCloud is under pressure to talk about how it plans to make money, and how it plans to then pass a good chunk of that money onto its creators.SoundCloud's Eric Wahlforss, who is a musician as well as a tech executive.Wahlforss says the company is working on it. “Right now in the US we’re experimenting with different monetisation approaches. We’re testing out different things: throwing a couple of things out there and testing the waters a bit. We’re super-excited about where this stuff can go,” he said.“When you have millions of followers and millions of listeners, you’ve got some point expecting there to be some sort of monetisation there. We hear that loud and clear.”What are those experiments in the US? “We have a bunch of different products that we’ve been testing with brands: we’re doing native-type advertising things, and we’re building a couple of other things as well,” he said.“I can’t talk a lot in detail about it, it hasn’t rolled out at any bigger scale yet, but we are looking to create a user experience that’s very elegant, frictionless, open and also has an element of monetisation.”If its new app boosts mobile beyond two thirds of SoundCloud listening, the app will surely sit at the centre of those moneymaking efforts. Wahlforss says that the company is working hard to ensure it works in the interest of its artists.“Some artists really get this idea of a real-time expression platform where anyone can participate and super-quickly get to listen to the latest stuff. That’s what we want to get to, and we think the artists and labels that embrace that paradigm are the ones who’ll win on our platform,” he said.“It’s a new medium: it’s the web, right? With any new medium, it’s about learning for 10, 20, 30 years, and then eventually the medium finds its way, and it starts to become really powerful. It’s like film was just filming a theatre stage in the beginning, and photos were just a replacement for a painter in its early days.”Wahlforss – a musician himself, whorecords under the name of Forss– thinks SoundCloud is one of the digital services poised to help musicians and other creators to make the most of the web as it moves beyond its initial phase.“Some artists totally get it already. The knowledge is out there. But not everyone will like it, and not everyone will excel within the constraints of that new medium,” he said.“Some people are totally attached to vinyl, for example. And I kinda agree: I love vinyl! But it’s not going to get to a billion users…”
Fear of data-mining of healthcare could be costing as many as 100,000 lives a year, according to Google&apos;s Larry Page.Speaking out in response to fears over his company&apos;s vast haul of personal information, Page made the case that not only is Google not going too far with collecting and analysing such information – it&apos;s not going far enough.“For me, I’m so excited about the possibilities to improve things for people, my worry would be the opposite,&quot;he told the New York Times&apos;s Farhad Manjoo. &quot;We get so worried about these things that we don’t get the benefits … Right now we don’t data-mine healthcare data. If we did we’d probably save 100,000 lives next year.&quot;Page was speaking after Google&apos;s introductory keynote to its I/O developers conference, where the firm showed off arehauled design for the 12th major release of Android, as well as itsAndroid Wear operating system for smartwatches, and its third attempt to dominate the living room,Android TV.The keynote closed with the introduction of Google Fit, the company&apos;s new fitness and health tracking platform. With sensors on mobile devices, including Android Wear smart watches, users will be able to share health Data with apps such as weightloss programme Noom, which can monitor weight, eating habits and workout data to make suggestions that will improve your health. The platform is similar in scope to the HealthKit feature announced by Apple in early June.&quot;I think technology is changing people’s lives a lot, and we’re feeling it,&quot; Page told Manjoo. &quot;In the early days of Street View, this was a huge issue, but it’s not really a huge issue now. People understand it now and it’s very useful. And it doesn’t really change your privacy that much. A lot of these things are like that.&quot;The I/O keynote was the focus of two separate protests, one focusing on Google&apos;s ownership of Boston Dynamics, a robotics company which is entangled in obligations to the US military&apos;s R&amp;D wing Darpa, and the second on the company&apos;s role in the gentrification of San Francisco. But Sunder Pichai, Google&apos;s head of Android, Chrome and Google Apps who led the presentation, was unperturbed.&quot;I think in some ways it’s good that there’s an open debate about it and I think we needed it,&quot; he told the NYT. &quot;There’s been a lot of growth and the area is trying to adapt to that growth and that has been a concern.&quot;Page concurred. &quot;We’re in San Francisco, so we expect that. There’s a rich history of protest in San Francisco.&quot;•Google I/O 2014: smartwatches, Google Fit – and Android Lollipop?
On this edition of Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe meetJamie Bartlett,director of the Centre for the Analysis of Social Media at thinktank Demos, to discuss the digital savvy of Isis Islamist group as they reek havoc in Iraq.Aleks is joined by Guardian technology editorCharles Arthurand Guardian tech reporterAlex Hernto discuss the launch of Amazon's Fire mobile phone and the infectious genius of the Yo app.Finally the Guardian'sSamuel GibbsmeetsBang &amp; Olufsen president and CEO Tue Montonito discuss Danish tech and design and why in a competitive market B&amp;O want to be the complete entertainment provider for the living room.
Twitter has introduced its second set of &quot;hashflags&quot; for users observing Ramadan and celebrating Eid, following from the state-specific flags introduced during the world cup.Users of the service tweeting #Ramadan or #Eid, in Arabic or English will see special icons – a crescent moon and Arabic calligraphy, respectively – next to the tags.&quot;This week, more than 1.5 billion Muslims around the world will observe the ninth month of the Islamic Calendar as Ramadan, the month of fasting,&quot; says Twitter. &quot;And they will also gather on Twitter to share their celebration. In fact, based on our research, people sent more than 74.2m tweets about Ramadan from around the world last year.&quot;Twitter&apos;s data team put together a visualisation to show how users tweeted about Ramadan in 2013. In the US, &quot;long summer days mean that people often tweet about how hungry and thirsty they are during Ramadan&quot;, while in the UK and Malaysia, the word &quot;happy&quot; predominates. Prayer, orصلاة, &quot;is mentioned most often in Ramadan tweets from Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Bahrain and Egypt&quot;.As well as adding a little extra colour to the site, Twitter is providing a more useful service to its Islamic users: from Friday, anyone can tweet Arabic news channel al Arabiya to find out when iftar is in their location. Users need to tweet #iftar and then their location (#london or #newyork, for instance) to @alarabiya to find out what time in the evening they can break their fast. To do the same with the beginning of the fast, they can send #imsak instead.•Saudi Arabia threatens to block WhatsApp over regulation refusal
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle I/O – Google reasserts control over Android &gt;&gt; Jackdaw ResearchThe overriding theme of the I/O keynote was Google reasserting control over Android. The core objective of Android has always been to provide the widest possible audience for Google's services, but over the last several years Google has seen a variety of device vendors customize, tweak and fork Android in ways that either submerge Google's services beneath their own or strip them out entirely. Google has achieved its objective of creating a very widely used mobile operating system, but it's a very Google-light version of Android which is driving that growth. Android One is ostensibly about expanding the availability of cheap smartphones using Android in emerging markets, but Android is already the default operating system for cheap smartphones. The problem is that it's often a version of Android which has very little to do with Google. Android One will re-enshrine Google's services at the center of these devices, which will run stock Android and be free from the sorts of customizations so popular with the largest Android manufacturers, notably Samsung.Reading Electronic Gaming Monthly &gt;&gt; TumblrScans of Electronic Gaming Monthly from the 1990s. HDTV will never happen, apart from anything else. It's there in black and white.Google Play emerges as powerful weapon for internet giant &gt;&gt; WSJExcept it's not so much a "weapon" as an asset.There are now more apps available in the Play store, 1.5m, than the App Store, 1.2m, according to market researcher App Annie. App downloads from the Play store surpassed those from the App Store for the first time in 2013. The App Store still generated more than twice as much revenue for developers last year, but that was down from six times as much in 2012. Google Chief Business Officer Nikesh Arora told investors in April that Play store payments to developers quadrupled in 2013 from 2012."Growth on the [Android] platform has been tremendous," said Eric Feng, chief technology officer at Flipboard, the maker of a popular reading app for smartphones and tablets. Flipboard's first Android app was released 18 months ago, more than two years after it made its debut on iPads and later iPhones. Despite the late start, today more than half of the company's users are on Android devices, Mr. Feng said.Apple users generate more revenue, in part because the owners of more-expensive iPhones and iPads tend to have higher incomes than Android users. "But Android users are becoming very valuable at this point," said Phil Libin, chief executive of Evernote, the maker of a popular note-taking app.Android's growing popularity is enabling Google to extract bigger profits from app sales. That is a change from a few years ago, when the company kicked back a hefty share of those sales to wireless carriers.First gen Nokia X devices won't be updated to Platform 2.0 &gt;&gt; NeowinThe first generation Nokia X smartphones which were released in February, will not be getting updated to the Nokia X software featured on the Nokia X2.In a detailed post about the Nokia X2 smartphone user experience on the Conversations blog, Microsoft's Yannis Paniaras, Head of the Mobile Phones UX Design Studio in Beijing, has revealed that "because of the necessary hardware upgrades, the Nokia X software platform 2.0 won't be available on Nokia X, Nokia X+ or Nokia XL. However, more updates will be coming to further improve the experience of those devices in the coming months."Will those owners care? Almost certainly not.Apple's new phone drives a wedge between Korea and Taiwan &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogApple's hotly anticipated iPhone 6 could be helping to break up one of Asia's most dependable economic relationships.Factory output from South Korea and Taiwan long has moved almost in lockstep as both helped meet global technology demand. But Apple is trying to reduce its reliance for parts on smartphone rival Samsung Electronics, and the iPhone 6 could pull Taiwan more firmly into a production orbit independent of Korea's.Taiwan's industrial production index rose 5.2% on-year in May, beating economists' forecasts, after rising 5.29% in April and 3.2% in March. Korea won't report May industrial production until Friday, but its April production slowed to 2.4% on-year, from 2.6% in March.It seems incredibly unlikely that one company's parts-buying from one other company could drive industrial indexes for two entire countries. There's a correlation there (it's in the article), but the real causation might be trickier to unpick.A peek at Google's M&amp;A ambitions &gt;&gt; FortuneInterview with Don Harrison, vp of corporate development at Google:Q: Over the past year, a lot of deals are for companies that have ended up over at Google X, the semi-secret lab were Google cooks up its most advanced projects. What kind of mandate has Larry given you?A: They are not so much Google X as new product areas within Google. At its highest level the mandate is to find interesting companies that are moving things forward that are solving big problems.Our acquisitions generally fall into three rough buckets. We look for smaller deals that are focused on talent and technology. We also focus on areas where we identified a core functionality that we are we are trying to implement across a product, and we can fill out that offering as a result of buying companies. There's a third area, which is still core, where we recognize that we need to be in an area, but we need to get to scale quickly.Disruptors, to arms: San Francisco stops startups selling public parking spaces &gt;&gt; PandoDailyNathaniel Mott:Paolo Dobrowolny, the company's chief executive and co-founder,previously defended its plan to the San Francisco Chronicleby claiming that the service is a "fair business for anybody" and that anyone worried about spending $20 on a public parking spot can just make that money back later. That means that everyone comes out ahead… except the poor sap who gets to the parking spot later in the day — you know, when people are just getting out of work — and can't find any takers for the $20 parking spot in front of their friendly neighborhood Chipotle.…MonkeyParking's users aren't renting out their spare room or driving people around in a car they paid for, they're auctioning off a public good that they have no right to sell in the first place.Kantar Worldpanel preview of Google I/O 2014 &gt;&gt; KantarCarolina Milanesi:At the end of Q1 2014, Android owned 50% of the US smartphones installed base (smartphones in use), one percentage point up from Q4 2013.  While penetration grew, net promoter score (NPS: a measure of loyalty based on the question, "How likely are you to recommend your XXX phone?") among smartphone buyers of Android-based phones (this does not include first-time buyers) dropped from 55 points in Q4 2013 to 48 points in Q1 2014. This compares to a score for iOS based iPhones that went from 55 in Q4 2013 to 63 in Q1 2014.User satisfaction is driven by several factors that relate to three main areas: hardware design and specs, price point, and ecosystem:For most consumers, ecosystem today translates to availability of applications. In a not too distant future, ecosystem will translate more and more to interoperability of products and seamlessness of experience across those products.Twilio turns Google Chromebooks into call center phones &gt;&gt; CITEworldThe real key value here, Smith says, is ease of setup: Sign in to the Chromebooks with a company-activated Google Apps account, plug in the headset, open the browser, and you're officially online and able to take calls. All the communication magic happens behind the scenes in Twilio's cloud.This is in stark contrast to unified communications solutions from telecommunications vendors like Cisco or Microsoft, which tend to be more complicated to set up and run. The simplicity and low cost of the Chromebook is quite a different approach than Cisco's latest device, a desktop communications terminal with high-end audio and video that will cost around $1,500, and is more in line with a cost-based approach toward customer service.This is a real disruptive opportunity for Chromebooks - low-end, simple, cheap, functional, rolls in computer functionality. (Updated with correct link - apologies for earlier error.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
British companies building apps for smartphones and tablets are forecast to generate £4bn in revenues this year, with the UK benefiting more than any other European economy from the billions consumers spend on their phones.Over a third of the revenues generated by all 28 European member states come from the UK, with 8,000 companies directly involved in app development, employing 380,000 people, according to research commissioned by Google to launch its global I/O conference for app and software developers.Britain is home to King Digital Entertainment – which makes the blockbuster smartphone game Candy Crush Saga – the BBC and developers such as Mubaloo, which creates apps for other organisations including the Met Office, BP and computing group Hewlett-Packard, makers of some of the most widely used apps on the planet.Consumers in Britain lead the way in smartphone ownership and spending on mobile shopping and entertainment, downloading more than 250m apps a month, equivalent to four per British citizen per month.The research predicts that the app economy will be worth nearly £31bn to Britain by 2025."The UK is certainly among the top global tech hubs with several metrics indicating that it is in fact the biggest tech hub in Europe and most likely the second most important tech hub after the US," said the report's author, Andreas Pappas, a researcher atVisionMobile."In addition, the UK app economy is more export-oriented – developers generate significantly more revenues from high-growth markets outside Europe than other European developers."The English language has helped developers export their services and sell apps abroad, but Pappas also credits Britain's well structured and maturing technology startup scene, which he says is supported by government and larger companies.From toothbrushes to bicycles, increasing numbers of products are being offered with an app. VisionMobile estimates that the global app economy was worth over £40bn in 2013 and is growing at about 27% each year, and that in the next five years every company will have an app, in the way that most companies today have a website.The biggest categories are financial services, news, entertainment, retail, automotive and health. Much online shopping is now done not on a desktop computer, but via mobile devices. On Boxing Day in December 2013, 45% of all online sales were made on a smartphone or tablet.The revenues measured by Pappas count sales of apps themselves and app-related services such as advertising, but they do not include the value of goods from stores such as Amazon or eBay.He expects 30,000 jobs to be created in the industry over the next 12 months. Most will be in London, which is home to 31% of app companies, while the south-east has 24%. There are also smaller-scale hubs in Brighton, Cambridge, Birmingham and Edinburgh.The research counts jobs in companies whose entire business is app development, but also in those whose main business is software development and publishing but where not all staff work on apps. The jobs counted include technical design, but also sales, marketing and management.An estimated 75,000 work as professional app designers and developers, while 35,000 hobbyists and enthusiasts also moonlight in the sector.Annual income for developers and designers averages £47,000, well above typical wages for the UK. Women are still under-represented, accounting for 8% of designers and developers. Many in the industry are self-taught, with 83% saying they have had no formal training.After questioning several thousand developers, researchers found many startups, with 50% of companies in the industry employing less than five people. The average headcount was 47 people. More than 40% of developers generate most of their income from apps, but 22% generate no income at all, suggesting a sizeable group of amateurs and early stage startups."The UK has gathered a lot of momentum in the past two years and the government has been visibly supportive," said Pappas. "However, there are several areas where more work needs to be done … continuing tax incentives, providing affordable training, cutting the red tape for fledgling startups and educating entrepreneurs about funding resources and support schemes."
Google has pipped Apple to the post by becoming the first to release a smartwatch. Timepieces with touchscreens, made by Samsung (pictured) and LG using Google's software for wearable devices, went on sale on Wednesday from the company's online shop.Controlled by voice commands, taps and swipes, and linked to apps loaded on a smartphone, the watches can tell wearers how many stops before their bus journey ends, how far away their taxi is or who is calling their phone during a meeting.The news was announced at Google's I/O developer conference in San Francisco. Apple is expected to release a smartwatch later this year, which will work alongside smartphones and tablets and is expected to focus on fitness and activity-tracking features.Both Samsung's Gear Live watch and LG's G Watch will have square faces – those wanting a more classic round-faced design will have to wait until the release of the Motorola 360 later this year.All the watches will run on Android Wear, the same software used for Google Glass, the computer-enabled spectacles released in the UK this week. The information they present is intended to be "glanceable", and predictive, with apps serving up takeaway menus on the day the user normally orders pizza."We're right at the beginning of a new phase in the miniaturisation of technology," said David Singleton, Google's director of engineering.
Google&apos;s Android now has more than 1bn active users, nearly double the 530m it had a year ago.The company announced the latest milestone at its I/O developer conference, adding that it has paid out more than $5bn in revenues to Android app developers in the last year alone.It came as Google revealed plans for Android&apos;s latest expansion into wearable gadgets like smartwatches, connected televisions and cars. It also gave developers a peek at the next major update for the Android software, which for now is simply named &quot;L&quot;.Google&apos;s Android and Chrome boss Sundar Pichai claimed that Android users send more than 20bn text messages, check their phones 100bn times, and take around 93m selfie photos every day, while talking up Android&apos;s growing share of shipments of tablets, against Apple&apos;s iPad.&quot;Android tablets accounted for 39% of all shipments two years ago. That number increased to 46% as of last year&apos;s I/O. As of this year&apos;s I/O, Android tablets accounted for 62% of the global tablet market,&quot; said Pichai.He also hit back at claims by Apple that Android tablet shipments are not matched by usage of these devices, quoting stats from Google&apos;s own YouTube service, where 28% of its tablet viewers were on Android devices a year ago, but 42% are now. &quot;We have seen usage track shipments,&quot; said Pichai.Google&apos;s Android L softwarewill be released in the autumn, by which time it may be called Android Lollipop – the company names each version after a sweet or dessert – although the name was not confirmed during the I/O keynote session.Pichai talked up &quot;over 5,000 new APIs&quot; in the new software, although only a few were talked about during the keynote session: more will be explained to developers in the coming days during the company&apos;s conference.Better battery performance, enhanced notifications and a new design were the main improvements shown during the keynote.Google also walked developers through some of the features of itsAndroid Wear software for smartwatches and other wearable devices, announcing that Samsung and LG are releasing compatible watches today: the Gear Live and G Watch respectively, while showing apps from Pinterest, Eat24 and Lyft.The company is releasing a full software development kit (SDK) for developers, promising that they will be able to add Wear apps into the code for their Android apps, and have the wearable versions automatically installed on Wear devices when people install the parent apps on their smartphones.Google is also having a third crack at the connected TV market, following its unsuccessful Google TV software, and its much more popular Chromecast gadget. The new initiative isAndroid TV: software that will run on TVs, set-top boxes and games consoles.Controlled by a mixture of mobile apps and voice commands, Android TV will help people discover and watch TV shows and films, run apps on their televisions, and play &quot;console-quality&quot; games. Sony, Sharp and TP Vision are the first manufacturers signing up to add the software to their connected televisions.During the I/O keynote, Google also launched a platform called Android Auto, designed to bring Android to cars. More than 25 vehicle makers have signed up to add it to their upcoming models, with the first due to go on sale by the end of 2014.Working with digital music and messaging apps will be a key focus for Android Auto. On the former front, it is already working with Spotify, Pandora, TuneIn, iHeartRadio and Songza.Pichai, who led the two-and-a-half hour keynote in the absence of Google&apos;s chief executive Larry Page or co-founder Sergey Brin, also revealed a new initiative called Android One: a &quot;hardware reference platform&quot; aimed at making it easier and cheaper for manufacturers to release Android smartphones in the developing world.Google will launch the scheme in India, working with three companies on a smartphone with two SIMs, an SD memory card slot, a 4.5-inch screen and FM radio, costing less than $100.Google also announced an initiative called Google Fit, a direct rival forApple&apos;s recently-announced HealthKit, which will collect and share information from and to fitness gadgets and apps running Android – although the company stressed that users would have to explicitly opt in to this sharing.Partners include Adidas, Nike, Withings, Intel, Asus, RunKeeper, LG, Basis, Runtastic and Polar. Google will release its platform preview software development kit for developers in a few weeks&apos; time.Finally, Google used its keynote to announce plans to launch a new version of its Google Drive cloud storage service – which already has 190m active users – for use in workplaces, and an internal project to make Android mobile and tablet apps also run on partners&apos; Chromebook laptops.
We&apos;re used to him firing insults at politicians and celebrities, but soon he&apos;ll be firing bullets at video game players. Writer, critic and television presenter Charlie Brooker is appearing in the World War Two simulation, Sniper Elite 3 as a German field officer accompanying Hitler.In April, games developer Rebellion revealed that it had offered Brooker the chance to star in the latest Sniper Elite title after he praised the game seriesin his Guardian column. The star of Newswipe and Ten O&apos;Clock Live was filmed in a motion capture studio so his physical movements could be placed in the game. His voice was also captured and it will be used in a series of radio recordings that players can discover throughout the story.Unfortunately, for fans (and indeed non-fans) of Brooker, access to his appearance will be limited. Only those who pre-order the game before its 27 June release will get the bonus level in which he appears. It&apos;s likely however, that the content will be made available at a later date to all Sniper Elite 3 owners.Charlie Brooker was motion captured for his role in the game, and his voice is also used in radio recordings hidden around the levelBrooker is a veteran video game fan. He once wrote for specialist magazine PC Zone and has presented documentaries on games, including Gameswipe and How Video Games Changed the World.He is only the latest in a series of celebrity gamers to make it into the industry through sheer force of fandom. Comedy actor Peter Serafinowicz was approached to appear in fantasy action adventure Dark Souls 2 when he professed his love for the game, while movie star Vin Diesel liked gaming so much he bought his own development studio.Those who do manage to play the bonus mission in Sniper Elite 3 will apparently be well rewarded with in-game achievement points; there is a special bonus available for the most imaginative Brooker assassination – a fact that will no doubt appeal to the darkly cynical humorist who wrote, &quot;I will never tire of hiding in the mountains, blowing people&apos;s heads off from a distance with a high-velocity rifle.&quot;•Sniper Elite 3: Charlie Brooker to cameo between the crosshairs•Charlie Brooker on why video game television is so hard to make
If at first you don&apos;t succeed, then try and try again: the perfect description of Google&apos;s connected TV strategy, as it tries to conquer new territory in the living room.The company&apos;s first attempt, the Google TV software for connected TVs and set-top boxes, was a flop. Its second try, the Chromecast dongle, has been rather more popular, enabling people to stream media to their TVs via their Android devices.Now, a third try: Android TV, which was announced at Google&apos;s annual I/O developer conference today. It will involve people controlling their televisions through a mixture of their mobile devices – including smartwatches – and voice commands.Android TV will run on various devices, including televisions, set-top boxes and games consoles. Sony, Sharp and TP Vision are the first manufacturers to sign up to embed the software in their upcoming connected TVs.&quot;In some ways, the TV space is not dissimilar to the mobile space in 2006,&quot; said Android engineering director Dave Burke at the event. &quot;As a result, smart TVs are typically limited and not comparable with their mobile cousins... We&apos;re simply giving TV the same level of attention as phones and tablets have traditionally enjoyed.&quot;Android TV users will get recommendations for films, TV shows and apps, and will be able to search for content by speaking into their smartphone or tablet, including searches for specific shows and films, or questions like &quot;Who plays Katniss in The Hunger Games?&quot;Google wants developers to make apps for Android TV, and is courting games developers in particular. Burke said that &quot;three out of four Android users are playing games&quot; before pitching developers on the idea of bringing their Android games &quot;to the biggest screen&quot;.Burke showed a demonstration two-player match of sports game NBA Jam, with one player on a tablet and the other on a smartphone – with the game itself shown on the nearby TV screen.Google&apos;s Cast technology and the Chromecast dongle are part of Android TV too, Google said, while confirming that it has sold &quot;millions&quot; of Chromecasts and attracted more than 10,000 Chromecast-compatible apps.The company is launching adedicated website to help people discover Chromecast apps, and adding new features including the ability for people to &quot;cast&quot; media to televisions other than their own, and a Backdrop feature to show news, weather and photos on TVs when they&apos;re not being casted to.Android devices will also be able to &quot;mirror&quot; themselves wirelessly on a Chromecast-equipped television, much as iOS devices can do with Apple&apos;s AirPlay technology.•Fire TV: Amazon&apos;s $99 set top box to rival Google and Apple
Samsung is launching a smartwatch running Google&apos;sAndroid Wearsoftware. Its Gear Live will go on sale later today, from the Google Play store.The news was announced during the keynote session of Google&apos;sI/Odeveloper conference in San Francisco, where the company also confirmed that LG&apos;s previously-announced G Watch will also be available today.Motorola, its third partner for the Android Wear programme, will start selling its Moto 360 smartwatch later in the summer. Samsung&apos;s news came as a surprise, because the company recently launched another smartwatch, theGear 2, running its own Tizen software.&quot;We&apos;re right at the beginning of a new phase in the miniaturisation of technology,&quot; said David Singleton, Google&apos;s director of engineering, who noted that Android Wear will support both square and circular screens before demonstrating the software running on a smartwatch.Android Wear is designed to work closely with Android smartphones, while responding to voice commands from users and showing &quot;glanceable notifications&quot; from apps. The demonstration took in music playback, restaurant reservations and activity tracking, among other features.Google launched a developer preview of its Android Wear software development kit (SDK) earlier in the year, but is releasing a full version today, with the aim of encouraging developers to make apps for devices running it.Google is keen for developers to make apps for Android Wear, and has been adding Wear notifications to its own apps like Hangouts and Gmail to serve as case studies to follow. Singleton showed apps from partners including Pinterest, Eat24, LyftAndroid developers will be able to make Wear versions of their apps that will be automatically installed on people&apos;s smartwatches when they install the parent app on their smartphones.&quot;When a watch is connected, the wearable portion of the app is automatically installed and kept up to date on that watch,&quot; said Singleton.Google firstannounced plans for Android Wear in Marchat the SXSW conference, beforelaunching preview tools for developerslater that month.Google&apos;s Sundar Pichaidescribed the appeal of wearables thus: &quot;They understand the context of the world around you, and you can interact with them simply and efficiently, with just a glance or a spoken word.&quot;Google is far from the only technology company setting its sights on the wearable gadgets market though. Besides Samsung, Sony and startup Pebble,Apple is expected to unveil its own smartwatch later in 2014, working closely with its iOS software for iPhone and iPad, with an emphasis on fitness and activity-tracking features.Research firms expect sharp growth for the wearables market in the coming years, although the early nature of the space means most predictions are likely to be revised regularly.IDC has forecast that by 2018, annual sales of wearable gadgets will reach 112m units. Estimates for annual revenues by 2018 range fromABI Research&apos;s conservative $6bn predictiontoJuniper Research&apos;s bullish $19bn forecast.•10 things we learned from Pew&apos;s Internet of Things report
Google has unveiled the next version of its Android software for smartphones and tablets: Android 5.0 L.Announced at the company&apos;s annualI/Odeveloper conference in San Francisco, the software will be released in the autumn. It will be preloaded on new Android devices, although manufacturers and mobile operators will dictate when it is downloadable for older ones.Key features in Android L include a new &quot;material design&quot; look and feel, improved battery life and enhanced notifications.&quot;This is one of the most comprehensive releases we have done: it has over 5,000 new APIs, and we are thinking not just for mobile, but for form factors beyond mobile,&quot; said Google&apos;s Android and Chrome boss Sundar Pichai, during the keynote presentation at I/O.Key to these changes will be a new look and feel across smartphones, tablets and other devices, dubbed &quot;material design&quot; by Google&apos;s design chief Matias Duarte, during the keynote.&quot;What if pixels didn&apos;t just have colour, but also depth? What if there was an intelligent material that was as simple as paper, but could transform and change shape in response to touch?&quot; said Duarte. &quot;We drew inspiration from paper and ink, but unlike real paper, digital material can expand, reform and reshape.&quot;Google claimed that L will be significantly faster than previous versions, including when running on existing Android devices like the Nexus 5 smartphone. It will also support 64-bit processors, matching Apple&apos;s latest devices.Meanwhile, a Google initiative called Project Volta has focused on improving battery life on Android devices, including a new &quot;Battery Saver&quot; mode that the company says could give users up to 90 minutes more battery life over the course of a typical day, for some devices.Google is improving the notifications feature on Android, with users able to read, open and dismiss notifications from the lock-screen of their devices. The software will also try to learn from users&apos; behaviour, in order to judge which notifications are most important for them.L will also have a centralised setting called Universal Data Control, where Android users will be able to control how data on their handset is shared. Users will also be able to divide their devices between work and personal modes.&quot;In the PC world, companies gave you a separate laptop for work, and your own personal laptop... that model starts breaking down when you start talking about phones. Nobody wants to carry two phones around,&quot; said Pichai, of the new feature.&quot;We are doing it thoughtfully by providing underlying data separation: all your personal data is isolated from your corporate stuff, and vice versa.&quot;Earlier in the keynote, Pichai said that Android now has 1bn &quot;30-day active users&quot; – people who&apos;ve used an Android device in the last month – up from nearly 530m a year ago.He also claimed that Android now has a 62% global market share of tablet shipments, fending off past potshots from Apple that many of those devices are not being used by citing stats from Google&apos;s YouTube video service. Android accounted for 28% of its tablet viewers in May 2013, but is now up to 42%.&quot;We aren&apos;t building a vertically integrated product. What we are doing is building an open platform at scale. We work with hundreds of partners globally to bring a product and a platform that touches billions of people. And we want to do it in a way in which we are innovating at a very very fast pace,&quot; said Pichai.He also took a shot at Apple, which has recently added some new features to its iOS software that were already in Android.&quot;Custom keyboards, widgets. Those things happened in Android four to five years ago. We are working very hard to bring an open platform and innovate on it at an unprecedented scale,&quot; said Pichai.•The Guardian&apos;s weekly 20 Best Android Apps columns
Apple is looking to introduce two large-screened iPhones in September, according to an increasing number of leaks from the company&apos;s Chinese supply chain.The smaller of the two would have a display measuring 4.7in diagonally compared with 4in for the current iPhone 5S. That would be around the same size, but not necessarily aspect ratio, as Amazon&apos;s recently released Fire Phone, or the 2012&apos;s Samsung Galaxy S III.The larger of the rumoured phones would be 5.5in, firmly in &quot;phablet&quot; territory, equivalent in size to Samsung&apos;s 5.7in Galaxy Note 3.According to Bloomberg, which reported the latest round of leaks, the new iPhones &quot;will also be rounder and thinner than previous models.&quot; The site also reported that the larger model is facing production hurdles due to its complexity, &quot;resulting in lower production efficiency that must be overcome before manufacturing volume can be increased.&quot;As for what that complexity entails, a research note from analyst firm KGI suggests one possibility: that the 5.5in model will ship with a camera lens outfitted for optical image stabilisation. &quot;The 5.5in iPhone 6 is more likely to be equipped with [optical image stabilisation] due to lower estimated shipments and the need for more product features to differentiate itself from the 4.7in iPhone 6,&quot; the analysts say.Bloomberg&apos;s report is by no means the first to suggest that the latest iPhone will be larger than the 5s, nor even the first to finger 4.7 inches as the specific display size. In February,reports from Taiwan&apos;s Economic Daily Newsmade broadly the same claims as, describing 4.7 and 5.6 inch models as being in productionAnd the smokiest gun of all came at Apple&apos;s WWDC event, where the firm detailed the new technology that will be going in to iOS 8, likely to debut alongside the new iPhones. A feature called &quot;adaptive display&quot; lets developers program assets for screens of unknown or varying sizes – exactly what would be needed if the iPhone lineup was to fragment into small, medium and large models.That feature is just the latest in a line of additions that make iOS more suitable to large screens; the swipe functionality introduced in iOS 7 allows one-handed use of larger devices by rendering the awkwardly-placed back button -placed at the top left of the screen on older software and so furthest from the thumb - unnecessary.As well as size, another consistent thread has emerged: that the glass used in the screens of the new iPhones will have some fancy properties of its own. Apple has begun to buy sapphire crystal, the ultra-hard material which it currently uses only in the lenses of its cameras,in larger quantities than ever before, whilereports from Bloombergin Novemberas well as patents filedin January suggest that pressure sensitivity may be in the pipeline, letting the devices distinguish between heavy and light touches. However, that feature may not make it in to the latest devices.As Apple&apos;s hardware chain grows, leaks like this look likely to become more and more common. Back in 2009, barely anything was known about the iPhone 3G before it made its debut, but in the entire first quarter, just 6.9m units were sold. Four years later, the iPhone 5S sold more than 50m units, and largely avoided supply chain shortages throughout (with the exception of the coveted gold model).But Apple could only pull that off by involving an order of magnitude more people in the process before launch. And as scale grows, secrecy shrinks. However that does not seem to hold for software: Apple announced Swift, a whole new programming language, to a completely unsuspecting audience at WWDC.For the first five years of its life, the iPhone came in just one screen size, the same 3.5in model that the original model was available in. The iPhone 5, released in September 2012, was the first with a larger screen, measuring 4in, but even at the time of its release, it was still significantly smaller than top-end Android phones. The contemporaneous Samsung Galaxy SIII had a 4.8in display.But Apple has never said conclusively that it wouldn&apos;t bring out a phone that was larger still. When asked about the possibility in February this year,Tim Cook said that&quot;until the technology is ready, we don’t want to cross that line. That doesn’t say we’ll never do it. We want to give our customers what’s right in all respects – not just the size but in the resolution, in the clarity, in the contrast, in the reliability. There are many different parameters to measure a display and we care about all those, because we know that’s the window to the software.&quot;One other reason is likely the firm&apos;s passion for consistency, says Roberta Cozza of analyst firm Gartner. Tim Cook is famously proud of the fact that all of Apple&apos;s products can fit on one table, in contrast to the likes of Samsung, who have hundreds of models of phone available at any one time.&quot;I think that Apple has been happy to have a more consistent portfolio to help the ecosystem of developers,&quot; says Cozza. &quot;But at the same time, to give Samsung credit, it has been the vendor that has the scale and can afford to be more experimental. They found this niche of bigger display phones, that is very attractive for Asian markets.&quot;Cozza argues that the reason for the steady upwards shift in smartphone screen size is the increasing complex demands we place on our devices. &quot;The devices are more and more effective as media consumption devices, which has helped drive the demand for bigger displays.&quot;There has been a lot of focus around consuming media on smartphones. It is the device that is always with you, at the end of the day. From an apps perspective, from a service perspective, it is really at the focus of everything. The tablet is still a companion, it is a device that you use in certain scenarios.&quot;•Apple WWDC: expect a bigger iPhone - and bigger ambitions
Amazon has confirmed plans to trial online shopping pick-up lockers in London Underground car parks this month, joining a string of rivals already using the tube network.Under the proposals, lockers will be located in the car parks at Finchley Central and Newbury Park, joining nearly 300 locations around the UK where Amazon offers the service.London Underground also testedclick and collect points for supermarket Asda in six station car parkslast year and is working with Tesco, Waitrose and parcel locker company Inpost to offer services at several more stations.Britons' enthusiasm for click and collect services has also seenNetwork Rail set up a joint venture with Travelex founder Lloyd Dorfmanto invest £24m in 300 Doddle pick-up-points at stations.It is believed that more than half of British shoppers have used a click and collect service at some point, with most major retailers now offering the option to pick up goods ordered online in their store or another convenient location, rather than wait in at home. Even the supermarkets are using refrigerated trucks to enable shoppers to pick up groceries from their car parks.Amazon has also put collection lockers in stores including Co-op outlets, as its rival eBay teams up with Argos. Meanwhile retailers including John Lewis are working with Collect+, a scheme that allows shoppers to pick up and return items bought online at more than 5,000 independent retailers.The commercial development director at Transport for London, Graeme Craig, said: "Our click and collect partnerships have been extremely successful and we look forward to bringing more of the services our customers want to our network."He said the partnership with Amazon was part of a wider commercial strategy that is aiming to generate £3.5bn over the coming years via pop-up shops, click and collect services and new retailing ideas.
Google&apos;s annual developer conference – Google I/O – begins on Wednesday evening UK time – and expectations are high for a new version of Android, a fresh assault on TV, and a focus on wearables and fitness.A keynote session led by Sundar Pichai, in charge of both Android and Chrome, will introduce the new technology and services that the company has been working on.Coming just weeks afterApple&apos;s similar WWDC event, the I/O keynote will offer the latest chance to compare the fierce rivals&apos; strategies across a range of devices, from smartphones and tablets to wearable gadgets, connected cars and home automation kit.Google has already confirmed that it will show the next version of its Android software during the keynote, while strong speculation suggests there will also be a new activity-tracking platform called Google Fit; more details and some devices from the Android Wear wearables programme; and a new move into connected TV called Android TV, possibly with a set-top box to show it off.But this being Google, there are plenty of other areas of its business that may get the spotlight tonight: Glass, YouTube music, Project Ara, Google Fiber, Project Loon... Here are a few predictions on what&apos;s likely to be talked about on-stage.1. Android 5.0 … Lollipop?We know the next version of Android will be shown off, because Pichai has said so, in aprofile by Bloomberg Businessweek. It&apos;s earlier than expected based on previous versions - possibly to give handset makers time to incorporate it into new devices for Christmas sales. &quot;I want the world to understand what we are doing sooner,&quot; said Pichai.Speculation is already underway about what sweet treat beginning with &apos;L&apos; will give the new software its name, following Cupcake, Donut, Eclair, Froyo, Gingerbread, Honeycomb, Ice Cream Sandwich, Jelly Bean and KitKat. The current favourite is Lollipop, but curveballs could include Lemon Meringue Pie, Liquorice or – for optimistic Brits – Lion Bar.More importantly, what will the key features be? More design tweaks are likely, and there has been lots of speculation that Android 5.0 will introduce support for 64-bit processors from companies like Qualcomm and Intel, for faster and more powerful devices.Google Now software will surely get some clever new features. There has been speculation abouta wider feature called Nearby, which &quot;lets you connect, share, and do more with people, places, and things near you&quot; – a way for Android devices to connect and swap data when within range. Perhaps a counterfoil to Apple&apos;s iBeacon technology?Google will hopefully outline its next improvements for its Google Play store – although the latter has tended to get bits and bobs added throughout the year, rather than following Apple&apos;s model of a bigger annual update.Also see Android Police&apos;s story this week aboutplans for a new Quick Settings pane- which looks a bit like Samsung&apos;s quick settings pane. The nitty-gritty of Android 5.0 may be about these kinds of small, iterative but welcome changes to the operating system.2. Android WearGoogle&apos;s ambitions to make Android the most popular software for wearable gadgets through Android Wear are already public.Pichai himself announced the plansat the SXSW conference in March:&quot;In about two weeks, you will see us launch the first SDK for what we think of as Android for wearables. When we think of wearables, we think of it as a platform. We see a world of sensors... Sensors can be small and powerful, and gather a lot of information that can be useful for users. We want to build the right APIs for this world of sensors.&quot;The SDK was launched later that month, as promised, along with first partners: Samsung, Asus, HTC, LG, Fossil and Motorola, with the latter showing off renders of its Moto 360 smartwatch. The emphasis then was on watches, including voice commands, fitness tracking and the ability to control other devices from your wrist.No secrets here, but I/O should be a coming-out party for Android Wear: we expect more devices to be shown – theLG G Watch has already been shown to journalistsandappears to be gearing up for a 7 July release date. I/O may be the time for Google to show off other kinds of wearable devices running Android Wear too: pure (i.e. non-watch) activity-trackers, for example.3. Google FitOne of the big announcements at Apple&apos;s WWDC conference was HealthKit, a feature in that company&apos;s upcoming iOS 8 software that will scoop in data from various health and fitness apps and systems and even records and share it back out to others – complete with a Health app for users to keep tabs on it all.Apple isn&apos;t alone in these ambitions: Google has been strongly tipped to unveil something called Google Fit at I/O. Pichai said in the BusinessWeek interview that “You obviously need to be able to measure these [fitness and health] things so many more times and then apply more intelligence to it&quot;.Forbes claimed an exclusiveon the plans earlier in June, suggesting that it will also involve aggregating data from third-party fitness and health apps:&quot;Google Fit will aggregate data through open APIs, instruction sets that allow apps to share information, and will also announce partnerships with wearable device makers at its I/O conference, Forbesunderstands. One source with knowledge of Google’s plans said Google Fit would allow a wearable device that measures data like steps or heart rate to interface with Google’s cloud-based services, and become part of the Google Fit ecosystem.&quot;Assuming Google Fit is announced tonight, it&apos;s likely to be closely tied to Android Wear, albeit also drawing in devices running other software. If there&apos;s a standalone Google-branded fitness app – the equivalent to Apple&apos;s health – it may be part of the Android 5.0 software.How Android TV's user interface may look. Photograph: The Verge4. Android TVGoogle has had ambitions in the living room for a long time now, particularly around televisions. In 2011, those ambitions were focused on the Google TV software for connected TVs and set-top boxes, but it failed to take off. More recently, Google&apos;s Chromecast dongle has been a hit, enabling people to send content to their TVs via their Android smartphones or tablets, or the Chrome browser.Next: Android TV, if strong speculation is to be believed.The Verge bagged some leaked documentsin April providing some of the details, in Google&apos;s own words:&quot;Android TV is an entertainment interface, not a computing platform. It’s all about finding and enjoying content with the least amount of friction... cinematic, fun, fluid, and fast... Android TV is Android, optimized for the living room consumption experience on a TV screen.&quot;That report claimed Android TV – software running on set-top boxes and TV sets – will focus on apps, games, TV shows, films and music. Expect YouTube to figure prominently too, of course. Vevo, Netflix, Hulu, Songza and Pandora have all been tipped to be available from launch on Android TV.More recently, the Wall Street Journal claimed thatGoogle is working with several manufacturing partners on Android TV, with at least one device – likely a set-top box – set to be unveiled at I/O.That would be a direct rival for Apple&apos;s Apple TV, Amazon&apos;s Fire TV and existing devices from the likes of Roku, then, although it will be interesting to see how Android TV will fit with what Google is doing with Chromecast: perhaps the company will explain that at I/O too.5. Cars and Android Auto LinkGoogle isveryinterested in cars, and not just the self-driving ones it&apos;s developing in its research labs. In January,the company launched its Open Automotive Alliance(OAA), pitching it as &quot;a group of leading automakers and technology companies that share a vision for making technology in the car safer, more seamless and more intuitive for everyone&quot;.Or, alternatively: Google&apos;s decision to enter the race to control connected cars, going up against Apple, Microsoft and carmakers like Ford that have developed their own platforms. Here&apos;s how Google explained it in January:&quot;Today, millions of people already bring Android phones and tablets into their cars, but it’s not yet a driving-optimized experience. Wouldn&apos;t it be great if you could bring your favorite apps and music with you, and use them safely with your car&apos;s built-in controls and in-dash display? Together with our OAA partners, we&apos;re working to enable new forms of integration with Android devices, and adapting Android for the car to make driving safer, easier and more enjoyable for everyone.&quot;I/O should see Google talking about the next steps in its connected car strategy. Rumours suggest that it&apos;ll unveilsomething that&apos;s been codenamed Auto Link internally: the equivalent for cars to Android Wear for wearables (or, indeed, a direct rival to Apple&apos;s CarPlay software).That&apos;ll be the first of the &quot;new forms of integration&quot; referred to above, although it&apos;s more doubtful whether we&apos;ll see any specific cars announced that will use Auto Link – those unveilings may come at one of the major motor shows later in the year.But what else?Google has many fingers in many pies, so its I/O keynote could also showcase any number of new products and announcements.For example, the company may talk more about its plans to put Google Glass on general sale in the US, as well as its rollout to international countries beyond the UK, where it launched this week.Google might get its Nest subsidiary on-stage to talk about home automation, its$555m acquisition of connected camera company Dropcam, and its vision for the internet of things. We may get updates on research projects like modular smartphoneProject Araand location-aware phoneProject Tango, and perhaps something onfloaty internet-beaming initiative Project Loon.There has been speculation about the lack of sessions focused on the Google+ social platform during the rest of I/O – it&apos;s extremely unlikely to be killed off during the keynote, but we&apos;ll be watching closely to gauge how it fits into Google&apos;s priorities, following thedeparture earlier in the year of its driving force, Vic Gundotra.What about new hardware? While there have been rumours of a new 8.9in Android tablet in Google&apos;s Nexus range (allegedly made by HTC), that may be held for later in the year. It seems if there will be new devices, they&apos;ll more likely be shown off by partners.Finally, there may well be a carefully-staged Big Moment during the keynote. The one to beat is 2012, whenGlass-wearing skydivers landed on the building housing the I/O conference, then hopped onto mountain bikes to pedal into the venue.The Guardian will have full coverage of the announcements (and Big Moments) of I/O 2014 this evening.
While Insomniac Games was working on its bleak alien-invasion trilogy, Resistance, the studio realised something weird about the global apocalypse. It sort of seemed like fun.Well, obviously not that part about millions of people dying, but the fantasy of being free and alone after the fall of civilisation. &quot;In The Omega Man, Charlton Heston cruises around the streets of LA in a convertible; in I am Legend, Will Smith is hitting golf balls off an aircraft carrier; there&apos;s something in those images,&quot; says Marcus Smith, the company&apos;s creative director. &quot;It&apos;s the idea of a new beginning where you don&apos;t have laws – laws that say you can&apos;t hit golf balls off an aircraft carrier. We had this concept of &apos;fun at the end of times&apos;.&quot;In Sunset Overdrive, then, a new energy drink named Overcharge Delireum XT has turned the inhabitants of a US city into bloodthirsty mutants, and now the company responsible, Fizz Co, wants to cover up the disaster, erecting vast walls around the area and trapping everyone in.&quot;Drew [Murray, game director] and I grew up listening to punk rock music and we still have those ideologies bouncing around in our heads,&quot; says Smith. &quot;Every brand in the western world is owned by a small handful of companies. We started thinking about how apocalyptic movies and books are usually about a viral outbreak or a military experiment or an alien invasion, but we wanted this game to be about how the world really will end - which is, somebody just makes a horrible mistake; a mistake that could only happen when you have the power of a corporation.&quot;So, to hit their shelf date, Fizz Co has brute-forced its way through FTA testing and there are a few … side effects.&quot; Now it&apos;s your job as one of the survivors to strike back, escape and save the rest of humanity from this fizzy pop-based Armageddon.Sunset Overdrive is not a sensible gameAnd because Sunset Overdrive is not a sensible game, you will not be blasting assault rifles into a series of brown-grey environments for 20 hours. Instead, the game presents you with a fluorescent hyper-kinetic playground, a frothy-mouthed combination of Jet Set Radio, Tony Hawk&apos;s Pro Skater and Team Fortress. Every location is filled with grind rails, trampolines and zip wires; players can leap from roof to roof, sliding along benches and scorching down roller coaster tracks – every surface is a parkour start point. If you&apos;re on the ground for more than 10 seconds, you&apos;re doing it wrong.This would get tiresome pretty fast if it didn&apos;t feel good. Swinging from a zip wire, then leaping off on to a grind rail is fast and intuitive, and very quickly you&apos;re stringing tricks together thanks to an incredibly sympathetic and generous animation system, that would rather you make the move then faceplant frustratingly into a wall.That could easily get boring, but Insomniac has tied stylish motion in with an intricate and highly destructive weapons combo system. &quot;We wanted the game to be all about velocity and aggression,&quot; says Murray. &quot;Last-gen was all about hiding behind cover and playing it safe. We wanted gamers to get out there and play at the very edge of their abilities.&quot;Blasting enemies stylishly, with a variety of rifles, feeds a special meter that activates &quot;amps&quot; - or customised character abilities - which enhance your attack and navigation powers. Kill enough mutants in cool ways, for example, and your evasive roll move becomes an energy blast that knocks groups of enemies; or your melee attack becomes a tornado. You can also craft your own amps and slot them into your weapons, so you modify and enlarge their effects.The gun that shoots vinyl recordsThe weapons are crazy enough as it is. The One-Handed Dragon shoots fireworks that explode inside enemies; the High Fidelty shoots vinyl LPs that bounces off the ground and walls; the Flaming Compensator is a combination of shotgun and flamethrower. All of them level up as you play, opening new abilities or enhancing old ones. We are very much in Bulletstorm territory here – the idea of encouraging experimentation and interplay with a strange and exotic armoury; the idea that shooting is a style system not a merely destructive one. It&apos;s all pretty promising.During play you meet up with other idiosyncratic survivor groups. Troop Bushido are a pack of adult adventure scouts who have barricaded themselves into a Japanese centre and now consider themselves samurai. There are the Fargarths, a clan of live action role-players who now think the Larp module they were playing has come magically to life. You need to work together to take out Fizz Co and the mutants.The mutants, meanwhile, just want to kill people and drink more Overcharge, preferably the latter. If they do get more, they mutate through a series of powered up forms. Poppers are explosive, Blowers fire pus at you, Herkers have massive digger arms that they use to throw chunks of ground at you. There are also human bandits called scabs running around trying to steal your loot.Pop up co-opAt any point in the game, you can rush into a phone box and get zapped straight into an eight-player co-op mode called Chaos Squad, in which each 25 minute session has you battling hordes of incoming mutants. In the sequence we played, known as &quot;Night Defense&quot;, we had to protect two vats of Overcharge located in a theme park environment, working together to close off entry points, and combining weapons abilities to catastrophic effect. It&apos;s turbo-paced and ridiculous, players and mutants bouncing and leaping across the environment – sort of Timesplitters on taurine.The impression we get is of a world where player agency is absolutely the king of everything. Whatever you touch either propels you across the map or explodes. Balloons burst into flames and take out enemies; there&apos;s a fairground strength tester that you can smash into and that will electrify all nearby enemies. It&apos;s all about experimentation and effect.&quot;It&apos;s our first open world game, but we wanted to retain the hand-crafted feel that our Resistance and Ratchet &amp; Clank levels have,&quot; says Murray. &quot;We challenged the mission designers to come up with a unique gameplay mechanic for each mission. In a lot of open world games you&apos;re doing the exact same things as you move through the game - we wanted to mix things up.&quot;Be who you want to beInterestingly, when we saw Sunset Overdrive at E3, it was a day after the controversy surrounding games publisher Ubisoft, and its decision not to include female characters in the co-op mode of Assassin&apos;s Creed Unity. Hence, Smith was very keen to point out that the lead character in this game is completely user-customisable, and that this was the plan from the very beginning.&quot;Part of it was, we wanted a campaign mode and a multiplayer mode that would fit together,&quot; says Smith. &quot;The last thing we wanted to do was have a multiplayer mode where everyone is Nathan Drake or some other named character. The trick was, how do you tell a story but not have a named character. But having that RPG element where you build your own character... you don&apos;t really care about backstory because you&apos;re making it up as you go. As long long as other characters don&apos;t address the lead character by name, it&apos;s fine.&quot;Smith claims this isn&apos;t guided by marketing checklists (although it&apos;s annoying that the version of the lead character used in all the marketing is the sort of insufferable dude-bro that&apos;s killing interest in games for anyone outside of that demographic). Instead, it&apos;s sort of personal. &quot;I have a daughter and if I let her, my she would dress as a crazy person every day,&quot; he says. &quot;When I tell her she can&apos;t go to school dressed as half wicked witch, half Glenda the good witch, I sound like a real jerk, because basically the reason is, you&apos;ll be judged, and I&apos;ll be judged too because I&apos;m the person who&apos;s meant to stop her.&quot;We wondered, well, if society breaks down, will you finally get to express yourself? Will it be one big Burning Man festival? So an important theme of the game was, be who you want to be. We&apos;ve got a guy on the box, but you can play as male, female, different races, different body types - we want you to be who you want. You can change that during the campaign, and the person you play as in the campaign is the person you play as in the multiplayer mode.&quot;It&apos;s not clear yet whether Insomniac&apos;s incendiary and eccentric design, with its Dayglo visuals and restlessly twitchy freerunning mechanics, can maintain all that energy over a full game. Maybe it&apos;ll flag, maybe it&apos;ll get exhausting. But maybe it won&apos;t. It looks garish, weird and silly, and it plays like it was designed in conjunction with Sega&apos;s most inventive and idiosyncratic Amusement Divisions during a company drinks party at a Genki Rockets gig sometime in the late-1990s. That is, by the way, a ringing endorsement.It is just good to see colour and eccentricity and confidence. It feels like Bulletstorm never failed. It feels like next-generation game design may actually mean something.• Sunset Overdrive is released on Xbox One on 28 October•The five most disruptive ideas in video game design•Microsoft at E3 2014: from Halo 5 to the return of Crackdown - the key points
One of PayPal’s security mechanisms designed to stop account hacks has been proven completely redundant by researchers, who described the payment company’s attempts to provide extra protection as “shoddy”.While attackers would have needed a target’s username and password in the first place to compromise accounts, the vulnerability inPayPal Security Keywould have made life far easier for hackers looking to steal PayPal users’ funds, researchers at US firm Duo Security said today.PayPal has issued a temporary fix that should protect users, but the weakness may have been resident in the software for years.The flaw lay in PayPal’s two-factor authentication (2FA) mechanism which sends users a one-time code to enter after typing in their username and password. “This is a really unfortunate implementation of two-factor because it damages what benefits it offered,” said Zach Lanier, senior researcher at Duo.On a mobile client, such as PayPal for iPad or for Android, that feature has never worked, but oddly can be exploited on a smartphone or tablet.When a user with 2FA enabled signed in via the mobile app, they were briefly logged in before a message told them they could not continue as the feature was not compatible with mobile.But by simply turning off connectivity in that brief gap when the user was logged in, and then switching it back on again, the user remained logged in, thereby bypassing the second factor of authentication.That was exactly what tech entrepreneur Daniel Blake Saltman did using flight mode to quickly turn off connectivity. He warned PayPal about the issue on 28 March and then informed researchers at Duo Security.Having analysed how the app connected with PayPal servers, Lanier discovered the underlying issues were more serious than first suspected. He found it was remarkably simple to trick PayPal into believing a user was not signed up to two-factor even when they were.He replicated the attack by writing a small program, built with the Python language, which mimicked the processes of the mobile app.That program exploited the vulnerability by telling PayPal application programming interfaces (APIs), which the app connected to in order to authenticate the user, that no two-factor authentication was in use even though the “victim” (actually Lanier himself) had signed up.A “session token” was then sent by the PayPal API server to the app confirming the user was logged in. Proper two-factor protection should have stopped that happening, Duo said, describing the PayPal version as a “shoddy add-on”.In response to the findings, PayPal stopped returning those session tokens for security key-enabled accounts, thereby stopping anyone logging in. PayPal told Duo it would be issuing a full fix on 28 July, but it’s unclear what that will entail.Yet the vulnerability may have been open since the launch of its first mobile app in 2008. It was likely introduced when the relevant APIs were launched, but PayPal did not respond to a query on that issue.The eBay-owned payment provider said “all PayPal accounts remain secure”. “As a precaution we have disabled the ability for customers who have selected 2FA to log in to their PayPal account on the PayPal mobile app and on certain other mobile apps until an identified fix can be implemented in the next few weeks,” a spokesperson said.Lanier told the Guardian he hopes PayPal’s planned fix rectifies the vulnerability and leads to full support of two-factor authentication in their official mobile applications and third-party merchant apps.•PayPal executive Agrawal ducks out after late-night expletive-laden tweets
Even though BioWare is among the acknowledged masters of the role-playing genre, Dragon Age has never received the public adulation accorded to its other key franchise, Mass Effect. This is perhaps because it has not quite measured up to the quality of its big rival, Bethesda’s Elder Scrolls series.However, Dragon Age: Inquisition, due to hit the shops this October, will be the first major fantasy RPG for next-gen consoles, and has a window in which it can prosper before the next instalment of Elder Scrolls (unless you count the PS4 and Xbox One versions of the massively multiplayer Elder Scrolls Online).The latest instalment in the action RPG series wasn’t playable at E3, but we were privy to an extensive demo. And early indications suggest that it may well generate a more fanatical audience than its predecessors.Vast explorable worldsIt looks magnificent, with giant open environments dwarfing the landscapes in previous iterations. Story-wise, it sounds interesting, too: the land is beset by an all-out war between Mages and Templars, and you play an Inquisitor, assembling and deploying an Inquisition team whose mission is to stop the world from tearing itself apart. Both figuratively, in terms of the civil war, and literally, as a number of “breaches” appear, causing a demonic world to encroach on the idyllic countryside.There’s no doubt it will be a huge game, with all manner of side-quests and systems allowing you to extend your influence in the world. It’s important to establish the Inquisition as a force in the world – it means you can send out agents to recover resources and win over territory, via an interface called the War Table. What you do there, according to BioWare, will influence the course of the storyline. There’s a new crafting system, too, allowing you to create custome weapons and armour. An ecological angle has also been added: you can spend hours hunting bears, but the more you do so, the more their numbers will dwindle.Combat-wise, Dragon Age: Inquisition impresses. It defaults to an over-the-shoulder third-person view, and you can switch between the members of your party for a strategic edge. For finer control – particularly useful in the midst of big battles – the tactical overview mode has returned, freezing the action and letting you set up orders for each member of your party. The game also contains more than 200 talents and spells for you to acquire.You can choose between four races and three classes, and as a “Leader of leaders” you can also build a party of warriors with specific skills and plenty of personality. BioWare always strives to make the characters in Dragon Age games complex and finely drawn, and likes to take a more mature approach than many RPGs, so you will be able to initiate romances.Exclusives and dragonsDragon Age: Inquisition looks every inch the meaty, state-of-the-art, grown-up RPG that its predecessors aspired to be. It may finally propel the franchise towards the heights that BioWare has always envisaged for it. That may be particularly true on the Xbox One, as Microsoft&apos;s console will feature exclusive content and is set to get any DLC before PlayStation.As for dragon&apos;s, well, we&apos;re promised many more than previous titles, with different breeds and re-designed combat. They&apos;ll smash down buildings and burn the land. BioWare has clearly learned plenty from Skyrim; it&apos;ll be interesting to see what it can now teach us about RPGs in the next-gen era.•Dragon Age: Inquisition is released on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 7 October.•Dragon Age Origins review
Maps have come a long way since cartographers used mermaids and dragons to cover up the gaps in their knowledge.1 Welcome to real-time traffic dataCurrently, traffic data largely consists of ad hoc reports from the ground and analysis of camera feeds. Companies such asWaze, acquired by Google for $1.1bn in 2013, are changing that. Users of the service contribute to a real-time data stream that maps a city's traffic with unprecedented detail.2 Let's take this insideModern navigation systems can get you to the door, but rarely any further. Now that's slowly becoming a thing of the past. Google now offers indoor maps for Android users at around 10,000 locations and rival Microsoft is doing the same withBing Maps, including indoor maps at locations such as Heathrow.3 Open alternativesAlthough Google Maps dominates the mapping industry, there are viable open-source alternatives that have no copyright restrictions and let the crowd update the map. OpenStreetMap is the leading name in this area and powers travel appCitymapper.4 A military upgradeBritain's armed forces are beginning to go beyond GPS with "quantum positioning". By using powerful lasers to detect the effects of gravitational and magnetic fields on super-chilled atoms, the navy hopes to track its submarines to centimetre precision.5 Happy to share?British company,Presence Orb, wants to anonymously aggregate Wi-Fi signals given off by smartphones to provide real-time information about how full a bus is, for example. The main challenge is overcoming people's aversion to that level of intrusion.6 Sidestepping political controversyCartographers today can have their cake and eat it when it comes to borders. When Crimea was annexed by Russia in March, Google Maps showed the change to Russian users. American users were shown Crimea as "occupied territory".7 Your phone already knows where  you liveAnalogue maps were passive, static tools. With Google Now, the latest Android devices can automatically learn your home and work locations by tracking your daily routine – tell your phone "take me home" and it will know where to take you.8 Need a parking space? No problem.Getting to your destination is the easy part; finding a parking space is tough. Audi is experimenting with parking sensors in San Francisco and Los Angeles that not only keep track of free parking spaces, but can also help to predict when a space will become free by learning parking behaviours.9 Directions from your best friendInstead of relying on a computer to provide you with a series of boring left and right turns, US startup Mapkin wants friends to share directions with each other, including memorable stops between A and B.10 Making maps come aliveIn an ideal world, the maps of public transport systems would be dynamic. Tunnel Vision – currently only available for New York – is an app that overlays information on to subway maps showing users, for example, which stations are most likely to be crowded.
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle's Sundar Pichai: king of Android, master of mobile — profile &gt;&gt; BusinessweekDetailed profile which also goes into the friction that evidently saw Andy Rubin pushed aside:At the beginning of 2013, CEO Page told Rubin he had to integrate Android with the rest of Google. Rubin agreed at first, then changed his mind and decided he couldn't do it. He resigned his position, though he remains at Google, working on a skunk works robotics project. A person close to Google's management says that forcing Rubin's hand was the most difficult decision Page has made since reclaiming the CEO spot at Google three years ago. Page then handed responsibility for Android over to Pichai.Pichai says his first task was to do no harm. "I was worried about disruption," he says. "This was a small team executing well." Others at Google say he quickly started opening doors between Android and other product groups.Pichai is described by everyone as a nice guy who creates consensus, not conflict. Certainly a coup that he has managed - as the opening describes - to get Samsung to back down on diverging from Android's user interface in favour of its own. You can alsoread the full interview with Pichai.Hacking Team's Tradecraft and Android Implant &gt;&gt; CitizenlabWe have uncovered a range of cases where "lawful interception" software has been used against political targets by repressive regimes. Political and civil society targets have included Mamfakinch in Morocco, human rights activist Ahmed Mansoor in the UAE, and ESAT, a US-based news service focusing on Ethiopia. In all of these cases, a tool marketed for "law enforcement" was used against political, rather than security threats.  In still other cases, like Malaysia [PDF], we have found bait documents and seeding suggestive of political targeting.Investigates malware used against Android users which roots any but the latest phone and escalates permissions. It's unclear if there's an iOS exploit - the report doesn't find one, but it does find a malware creator which can target Windows, OS X and Linux.Analysts: 30% of Android phones in 2015 won't access Google services &gt;&gt; FierceWirelessAccording to a new report from CCS Insight, the dramatic and continued growth of the Android smartphone operating system may not be the boon to Android developer Google that some may have expected. According to the firm, fully one in four Android phones don't currently access Google services like Maps, Gmail and the Google Play app store - and that number will likely grow in the future."Android's dominance will increasingly fail to translate to Google dominance," the firm wrote in a wide-ranging report on the smartphone market. "The proliferation of forked variants of Android and the Chinese government's blocking of Google search in China is producing a growing proportion of Android devices that pose a challenge for Google's open-source Android model. Such devices provide Google with little or no revenue or data and provide a platform for services from Google's competitors. We estimate this could increase to over 30 percent in 2015. It also raises a question about how Google will control Android in the future as policing the platform through access to Google services will prove increasingly ineffective."Though the Chinese phones don't run Google services, they're recorded as "Android" in figures about handsets shipped. A reminder: China is the world's biggest market for smartphones, expected to consume about 400m units this year - which is about a third of the expected total smartphone market.Even venture-backed Bitcoin miner startup can't deliver on time, gets sued &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaYet another Bitcoin miner manufacturer, CoinTerra, now faces legal action for not fulfilling an order when it originally promised to. CoinTerra is the third Bitcoin-related startup to face litigation for breach of contract and/or fraud in recent months.The CoinTerra lawsuit was filed in late April 2014 by an Oakland, California-based man seeking to be the lead plaintiff in a proposed class-action lawsuit. Lautaro Cline, the suit alleges, purchased a TerraMiner IV in October 2013 for delivery by January 2014. The company promised, he claims, that this miner would operate at two terahashes per second and would consume 1,200 watts of power. It did neither.Three questions for Google at I/O &gt;&gt; Beyond DevicesJan Dawson:[At WWDC] Apple reiterated its commitment to securing its users' data and protecting them from intrusions from both malicious actors and over-zealous marketers. Google has always pushed the boundaries in terms of privacy and security, both policing Android less than Apple polices iOS from an apps perspective and itself intruding ever more on users' privacy. With the Nest acquisition (and now the Dropcam acquisition) Google has been forced to make clear statements about the separation between these units and Google itself from a data perspective. DuckDuckGo continues to grow rapidly if at a very small scale as an alternative to Google in the search engine world. Reverberations from the Snowden revelations continue to be felt. Samsung continues to build its own enterprise security and device management capabilities on top of Android. How will Google respond to all this? How will it demonstrate that it is creating not only secure platforms but platforms and services which respect user privacy?Why I'm not in a hurry for a 'smart home' &gt;&gt; WSJChristopher Mims:This is a technology in its earliest stages. And I wonder if the problem with modern smart homes and connected devices is that they lack any sort of "wow" factor. Where's that slick future we were promised? What can a smart home do that is truly new?The most compelling things I saw in Mr. Hawkinson's home were also the most novel. When a light on a bookshelf changed color to indicate that the postman had just dropped a letter in the mailbox, I found myself envisioning the ways these simple hacks might at least create the illusion that technology could change the way I live.Right now, it still feels like makers of smart-home tech are struggling to find the "killer app" that will drive broad adoption. For some people it might be home security. For the rest of us, it might be energy management, or pet and child monitoring. But whatever it is, it will have to accomplish something our current homes simply can't.The key problem with "smart home" stuff is that it's currently product-driven; it's as if mobile phone companies were telling us the best uses for text messaging.Nokia's X factor: rebuild smartphone leadership &amp; drive Microsoft-Nokia cloud services to mass market &gt;&gt; Counterpoint TechnologyNeil Shah on the launch of the X2:According to Counterpoint Research's Market Outlook service while overall smartphone growth will slow down in 2014 compared to previous years but the sub-$100 wholesale smartphone segment will grow above-average to more than 350+ million units in 2014. Also, majority of the growth in this segment will be driven by Android based smartphones considering the low-cost advantages.Hence, for scale  players like Nokia competing in this segment with Asha devices is not enough and thus need the Windows Phone based Lumia series to trickle down in this price-range quickly. However, pushing Windows Phone down the price-tier might be difficult in near-to mid-term as  building a broader Lumia portfolio with low BOM costs is difficult to achieve mostly due to Microsoft's tightly controlled restrictions to maintain the optimal User Experience. Hence, Nokia X family fills this big and important  gap left between Lumia and Asha range brilliantly by addressing multiple challenges ( &amp; that too immediately) which have been restricting Nokia from growing in this high-volume segment.The Nokia brand is still big in emerging markets.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
For the past few years, Gregory Bylos has been doing pretty well out of Minecraft. His company, Mineplex, runs a server network for fans of the massively successful construction game. As well as giving players all over the globe the chance to build in the same worlds together, Bylos and his staff have developed a range of custom Minecraft modes, challenges and maps. Here, you can play things like Castle Siege, which turns Minecraft into a full-on fantasy war game, or Super Smash Mobs, which re-creates the Nintendo fighting game series Super Smash Bros – but in Minecraft.It&apos;s immensely popular. Over one million people a month come to Mineplex to experience the company&apos;s modifications and community features. &quot;Almost 25 percent of all PC Minecraft accounts ever bought have played on Mineplex alone in the last eight months,&quot; says Bylos. That&apos;s a lot: there are 100m registered users, over 14m sales on PCs.But there&apos;s a problem. Mineplex, like hundreds of other Minecraft server providers, may be breaking the End User License Agreement (EULA) provided by the game&apos;s developer, Mojang. Now the previously benign Swedish studio is putting its foot down, and a fissure has opened up across the once peaceful Minecraft community.The beginning of the warThe trouble started on Thursday 12 June whenMojang posted a statement on its website, responding to someTwitter disagreementsabout the extent to which server companies could monetise their custom Minecraft content and services. Mojang spokesperson Owen Hill explained that server providers could accept donations from players, as long as these payments were not exchanged for items or power-ups that would give players advantages in the game world.He also stated that servers could charge players for entry, and for personalisation items like cool hats and silly pets, but could not charge for items that would affect gameplay, such as powerful swords or potions. In short, Mojang wanted to prevent servers from offering players a &quot;pay to win&quot; model to customers.But the server providers balked – and a Twitter storm ensued. With days, there was a hash tag #saveminecraft, which would be seen by over 500,000 users. There were dozens of unfavourable comparisons between Mojang and monolithic video game publishers like Electronic Arts and Activision, the latter often criticised online for their highly restrictive digital rights management and user license agreements.The grievance many Minecraft fans had was simple: although these terms had always been present in Mojang&apos;s Minecraft EULA, they had never been enforced over the three years since the game&apos;s launch. Mojang had always fostered alaissez fairesensibility; it had pushed Minecraft as an open platform, freely customisable by both players and server providers. But now it was tightening the leash. Andpeople were angry.My friends and other good willing server owners will lose their jobs because of a few rotten eggs in the community!#SaveMinecraft&mdash; Blue Monkey (@BlueMonkeyYT)June 16, 2014Two days after the announcement, Marcus &apos;Notch&apos; Persson, creator of Minecraft and founder of Mojang,took to his personal blogto defend his company&apos;s stance. &quot;Some privately run Minecraft servers do charge for in-game items, for xp boosts, for access to certain game modes,&quot; he wrote. &quot;Some of them even charge quite a lot. I don’t even know how many emails we’ve gotten from parents, asking for the hundred dollars back [that] their kid spent on an item pack on a server we have no control over. This was never allowed, but we didn’t crack down on it because we’re constantly incredibly swamped in other work.&quot;The issue of balanceThe problem is that while there are no doubt dozens of Minecraft server providers who just want to make money from charging players to acquire advantageous in-game items (and Mojang is surely right to crack down on them), there are plenty who claim they offer a more nuanced service. The likes of Mineplex, Hypixel and The Hive all run competitive player-vs-player matches in which participants can pay for &quot;ranks&quot;, essentially packages of in-game abilities, such as speedier movement, better armour, or a wider range of magical potions. But these ranks are balanced so that none has a clear advantage over each other – they&apos;re just different.&quot;For instance, one of our games focuses on small free-for-all matches between four players,&quot; says Bylos. &quot;Each player chooses a Minecraft character to play as, and all kits are balanced with pros and cons – so a character that can do more damage may be slower, whereas a character that can fly short distances may have weaker damage.&quot; This model is very common in multiplayer online titles, including the hugely successful team-based battle game League of Legends, where players purchase different classes of character, each with different strengths and weaknesses.In anopen letter to Notch, Bylos argued that Mojang was making the business model untenable for large server providers such as Multiplex, with large staff and infrastructure overheads. &quot;I personally discussed our rank system with a member of your business team at Minecon last year and he confirmed we were in compliance with the EULA,&quot; Bylos wrote. &quot;The only rule was to not sell Mojang IP (ie. access to a diamond sword), which none of the large networks do.&quot;For many in the Minecraft server business, Mojang is attempting to crack a nut with a diamond sledgehammer. Delyth Angharad runs a small family-friendly server called Minesquish and finances it with straightforward donations, but she understands the grievances of the bigger sites. &quot;Mojang&apos;s main goal with the EULA rules is to prevent unfair extortion and situations like a player-vs-player (PVP) server charging a few hundred bucks for a diamond armour kit,&quot; she says. &quot;That is fair, but under those rules, they&apos;re also preventing more balanced monetisation strategies.&quot;Bylos sees the services provided by the server companies as an essential element of the Minecraft ecosystem. While many fans are happy to keep playing the basic &quot;vanilla&quot; Minecraft, many others like the custom modes and maps that Mineplex, Hypixel, and so on create and run. &quot;I think Mojang does recognise the value we are bringing to their player community,&quot; he says. &quot;Last year at Minecon we were described as the &apos;second tier of content&apos;, and that&apos;s really where we see ourselves. The top servers see more than a million unique players every month, and there are thousands of smaller servers beyond that. It would be hard to make an argument that we are not helping to keep players engaged and interested in Minecraft.&quot;Is Minecraft Realms to blame?But there is another wrinkle in this whole argument. In May, Mojang launchedMinecraft Realms, a service allowing PC and Mac owners to set up their own private servers for up to 20 friends. The service costs £8 a month and is being touted as &quot;the easiest way for you to host a Minecraft world online.&quot; Some members of the Minecraft server community suspect that Mojang&apos;s EULA enforcement, coming just a month after the Realms release, is a way to drive users toward its own product.A blogpostwritten by server provider Towncraft states:If this EULA clarification was really about protecting players, Mojang would have stepped in against “pay-to-win” servers a long time before their Minecraft Realms service popped on the scene [...] Mark my words… Mojang can only sell so many copies of Minecraft before they need to find another way to monetize it. Realms was just a start.Mojang&apos;s Nathan Adams hasrebutted this on Twitter, suggesting that there is no comparison between a service that provides small groups of friends with a private server, and a larger business that provides custom content, maps and mini-games. However, as within any online games community, conspiracy theories are rife, and many feel that Realms is a Trojan horse for a more ambitious multiplayer offering from Mojang – one that would directly compete with Mineplex et al.So what happens now? We asked Mojang for comment, but the company did not get back to us. It has given server provides until 1 August to comply with the EULA and remove features that charge players for skill items and ranks – however balanced they may be.Some server providers are questioning whether Mojang has any legal right to enforce the user agreements after several years of not paying attention. According to Jas Purewal, founder of interactive entertainment law firm Purewal &amp; Partner, there is no time limit on EULA enforcement, &quot;like any contract, they can in theory become more difficult to enforce if there is a lengthy gap between the contract starting and the enforcement beginning, or if the developer says they won’t enforce their rights and then changes their mind after the game buyer has relied on that claim in some concrete way – in the UK, US and other common law countries this is called ‘estoppel’. Whether those arguments could be deployed successfully against the game developer depends very heavily on the detailed facts and circumstances of what was actually said and done and when.&quot;It&apos;s likely that the server providers will comply with the refreshed EULA rulings, but there are concerns that the nature of these custom communities will change forever. The owner of the Stompzcraft server has even made a video outlining his concerns:&quot;At this point, we&apos;re examining our options and trying to get Mojang to discuss the issues they&apos;re facing and how we can help contribute to a solution that may be less damaging to the current multiplayer servers,&quot; says Bylos. &quot; I do think we will survive it, but I think it will have a significant cost in terms of player experience. I know of a few major servers that are already putting ambitious projects on hold or canceling them altogether because of the new guidelines.&quot;&quot;The lead developer of the Shotbow Network had a particularly insightful comment a few days ago: &apos;I can only hope that Mojang listens to their community that loves them (a little too much) and trades out the sledgehammer for a scalpel.&apos;&quot;UPDATE:Mojang has got in touch and referred us toNotch&apos;s interview with PC gaming site Rock, Paper, Shotgun. Here, the Minecraft creator gives a spirited and fair defence of the EULA enforcement, which he says is directed at servers offering pay-to-win content and at companies attempting to mix in-game and real-world currencies. He argues that the previous EULA wasmorerestrictive, but is steadfast that &quot;ranks&quot; and &quot;kits&quot; are ways to pay for progress and therefore not allowed – whatever they may (or may not) add to the experience.&quot;Diversity is not a goal in and of itself,&quot; he states. &quot;These rules definitely remove the option to sell powerups for your character, which is a limitation of diversity, but I consider that a very good thing. I feel bad for the people who have built businesses around this, though.&quot;•Me, my son and Minecraft•Minecraft: here&apos;s one I made earlier
The US government is preparing to auction off more than 29,000 bitcoins seized from the Silk Road website when its alleged chief Ross Ulbricht was arrested, in a move that could net it over $17m.Ulbricht, 30, wasarrested in October 2013, charged with running the Silk Road, then the world&apos;s biggest online black market. The FBI seized the site&apos;s assets, as well as Ulbricht&apos;s. The anonymous nature of the Silk Road meant the bulk of those assets were in bitcoin, the cryptocurrency which exists only in digital form.Ulbricht held 144,000, and the Silk Road another 29,656. Ulbricht&apos;s bitcoins remain in the care of the FBI, but a judgesigned a forfeiture order on the Silk Road coins- which had no nominated owner, and were judged to be &quot;proceeds of crime&quot;. Ulbricht, who has not been tried, contests the forfeiture of the 144,000 bitcoins.The US Marshals Service is now trying to dispose of the seized Silk Road assets. The organisation has broken them up into blocks of 3,000 bitcoins each, and put out a call to interested parties to register as bidders until Monday 23 June. Registration required, amongst other things, a $200,000 deposit to ensure that bidders were legitimate.The initial auction, of nine blocks of 3,000 bitcoins - with each block worth about $1.7m at current exchange prices of around $588 - and one of 2,656 bitcoins, worth around $1.5m, will take place on Friday. Bidders need to email in a signed scan of their bid form, between 6am and 6pm, in ablind auctionin which bidders don&apos;t see rivals&apos; bids, and the government treats the highest submitted price as the prevailing bidder.Winning bidders will have to pay in cash.When the FBI seized Ulbricht&apos;s bitcoins, in early October 2013, the value of one bitcoin was $127. In the intervening period, the price spiked at almost ten times that, $1155 per coin - leading the Manhattan attorney-general to state the value of the 29,656 bitcoins as $28m in January - but has now settled at around $588.Even so, the government has still made a &quot;profit&quot; of $13.5m just by holding on to the Silk Road bitcoins for nine months. Were it to sell Ulbricht&apos;s personal assets at the same price, that profit would rise to an astonishing $66m.Owing to the public nature of the bitcoin blockchain, users have been able to keep an eye on the seized money since Ulbricht&apos;s arrest, and the news of the upcoming auction was first broken when the two accounts which had heldUlbricht&apos;sandthe Silk Road&apos;sbitcoin were cleared out on Thursday 12. The money can now be found residing intwodifferentwallets – at least until the sale completes.•Privatise the pound and replace it with bitcoin, says free-market thinktank
Google&apos;s acquisition spree is continuing, with the company buying the connected camera company Dropcam for $555m and Alpental, which makes systems that could be used in future 5G connections.The Dropcam acquisition was officially made by Google&apos;s Nest subsidiary, which manufactures &quot;intelligent&quot; thermostats and a smoke/carbon monoxide detector, as part of a push to build a &quot;smart home&quot; portfolio.Nest also revealed that it will begin sharing some data with Google - after insisting previously that its privacy policy would block such a move.Announcing the purchase of Dropcam on the Nest blog, co-founder and head of engineering Matt Rogerssaidthat Nest had looked at a lot of camera companies that offer remote viewing of the owner&apos;s home via an internet connection. &quot;In a matter of a few short years, their team has managed to create products that change how people interact with their homes,&quot; Rogers wrote. &quot;So naturally, we couldn’t help but feel our companies would be a good match.&quot;Dropcam, set up in 2009, offers cameras with capabilities including night vision and motion and sound sensing, which send the video in encrypted form via Wi-Fi to cloud storage. The company received a total of $47.8m in venture funding.He emphasised that Dropcam customer data would fall under the same privacy policy as Nest&apos;s, and so &quot;won’t be shared with anyone (including Google) without a customer’s permission.&quot; He added that &quot;Nest has a paid-for business model and ads are not part of our strategy. In acquiring Dropcam, we’ll apply that same policy to Dropcam too.&quot;The emphasis on the lack of ads follows an SEC filing made by Google in December 2013 - ahead of its $3.2bn acquisition of Nest in February - in which it resisted the idea of breaking out how much money it receives from mobile ads because, it suggested, it foresaw a future where adscould appear in all sorts of places- including cars, fridges, watches and thermostats. It subsequently insisted it would not do so with Nest.But Nest&apos;s insistence that it would keep customer data outside Google was weakened on Thursday when Rogerstold the Wall Street Journalthat Google will connect some of its apps to Nest systems, so that Google will know whether the devices&apos; users are at home or not. That will let them use voice control via the Google Now digital assistant to set the home&apos;s temperature, or sense when they are arriving home.Rogers said that Google&apos;s access would come viaNest&apos;s applications programming interface (API). He added that any company seeking to link to customers via Nest would have to write to them explaining how and what data they were using.Meanwhile Google has also bought Alpental for an undisclosed sum, in what isreckonedto be its 19th acquisition of 2014, spending more than $5.5bn so far.Alpental uses millimeter-scale radio communications at the 30GHz to 60GHz range to develop high-speed communications which could have applications in the next-generation 5G mobile data systems and for Wi-Fi wireless broadband.•Google Glass goes on sale in the UK - for £1,000
Whatever happened to virtual world Second Life after the flurry of hype and influx of brands in 2005 and 2006? You don&apos;t hear much about it nowadays.Actually, Second Life never went away; it was the media and brands that once flocked to it who melted away. The world&apos;s existing community of around 1m users carried on with their virtual lives much as they had before.Second Life&apos;s parent company Linden Lab wasn&apos;t the future of marketing or the next billion-dollar technology acquisition as some suggested, but it did continue evolving into a stable, sustainable business.Now, in 2014, it has a new chief executive and renewed ambitions to break out of its niche. Ambitions which include launching a completely new version of Second Life, as well as making it work with the now-Facebook-owned Oculus Rift virtual reality headset.&quot;With technology, market interest, hardware and software available, now is the time to give it another big shot. We have the experience to do it more than anyone else,&quot;CEO Ebbe Altberg told TheNextWeb, adding that the new version of Second Life will launch in beta form in 2015, then commercially in 2016.&quot;It’s a massive project to do a new virtual world. To start from the ground up we’re hiring 40-50 more people... We’re not going to constrain ourselves with backwards compatibility.&quot;That in itself may be controversial, given the fact that many of Second Life&apos;s users have been immersed in the virtual world for a little over a decade now, including building (and often selling) their own virtual objects using its in-world economy. Migrating them across will be a major task.TheNextWeb describes the Oculus Rift integration for Second Life as being in a &quot;very early version&quot;, with the company still working on how people will control their virtual characters, if they can&apos;t see a mouse and keyboard.Former Yahoo executive Altberg joined Linden Lab in February this year, and quickly made some tough decisions, axing spin-off projects dio, Versu and Creatorverse.For now, the company&apos;s business is focused on Second Life, as well as children&apos;s iPad appBlocksworld– which it acquired in January 2013 – digital games serviceDesuraand creation gamePatterns.Minecraft looms large in those new products, and may well also serve as inspiration for the new Second Life. That&apos;s no surprise: Mojang&apos;s blocky crafting game has found the mainstream audience –nearly 50m sales so far– that has so far eluded Linden Lab.Then again, Altberg may be looking more to the words of Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg, whoannounced his company&apos;s $2bn acquisition of Oculus VRin March 2014 with a prediction that virtual reality will go far beyond gaming.&quot;Imagine enjoying a court side seat at a game, studying in a classroom of students and teachers all over the world or consulting with a doctor face-to-face -- just by putting on goggles in your home,&quot; wrote Zuckerberg.&quot;This is really a new communication platform. By feeling truly present, you can share unbounded spaces and experiences with the people in your life. Imagine sharing not just moments with your friends online, but entire experiences and adventures.&quot;To do that, Oculus Rift will need developers to create those &quot;unbounded spaces and experiences&quot;, with Linden Lab having more experience than most in the area.Who knows, if the company does a good enough job with Second Life&apos;s second life, perhaps Zuckerberg will reach for his wallet again.•Oculus Rift – 10 reasons why all eyes are back on virtual reality
If you want clues about where the internet is censored, overloaded or just plain broken, look for spikes in downloads of apps like Firechat - a peer-to-peer app that doesn&apos;t need a central server. According to OpenGarden, its developers, in just one weekend in early June it was downloaded by more than 40,000 people in Iraq.Firechat is a messaging app based on the concept of &quot;peer-to-peer mesh networking&quot;. It runs on smartphones and tablets like a normal chat programme, but as well as communicating with a central server to upload and download messages – as services such as WhatsApp work – it can work without any centralised control at all.&quot;Your phone today, your smartphone, not only has a radio to connect to a cell tower, but it also has other radios like Wi-Fi or Bluetooth, to connect to other devices around,&quot; explains OpenGarden co-founder Micha Benoliel. &quot;And when smartphones are next to each other with Firechat, they directly interconnect.&quot;Firechat listens out, on Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, for other phones running the same app. If they &quot;hear&quot; one, they can talk to each other, and even pass on messages meant for other phones in the vicinity. With enough phones in one area, a &quot;mesh&quot; is built up, letting any phone speak to any other phone, and all without going on to the internet at all. (When using mesh networking, Firechat can&apos;t connect to the internet even if one phone at the edge of the mesh has a connection - but that is OpenGarden&apos;s eventual aim.)On Monday, a new version of the app, released as Firechat &lt;3, or &quot;Firechat Love&quot;, merges the Android and iOS versions into one cross-compatible app, expanding that mesh still further. Benoliel hopes that with the new release, the company can build its install base, not just in typical target markets like the UK and US, but also in places like Iraq and Taiwan, which saw its own spike in downloads during April&apos;s student protests when the government threatened to shut down the internet.Despite not having its own app store, Iraq is now the second biggest country in terms of usage for Firechat. For now, the service remains freely available – unlike Facebook and Twitter, both of which have been targeted by government censors in the wake of the ISIS uprising in the north of the country. Until Friday 13 June, there had been a total of just 6,600 downloads from IP addresses in the country in the since the beginning of April.But even if the authorities do decide to turn on it, the app has reached the critical mass required for mesh networks to form in some parts of Baghdad.Benoliel says that the company&apos;s internal research indicates that theoretically, just 7 or 8% of the population need to have the app &quot;to enable you to be connected to someone else more than 93% of the time.&quot; He concedes that in practice, the number required is likely to be larger, but points out that &quot;if you look at famous gaming apps that reached 60% penetration ratio, we are still far from [requiring] that number&quot;.Even outside of Iraq (and Iran, which is now the company&apos;s third largest market), the ability to talk over mesh networks can come in handy. &quot;You can use it in the tube, you can use it in an airplane, you can use it in a crowded place where you normally wouldn&apos;t have internet access like a concert or some conference venues.&quot; Mesh messages aren&apos;t encrypted in transit, so the app isn&apos;t safe for &quot;secure or private&quot; conversations: it&apos;s &quot;off-the-grid&quot;, but not secret.Although Firechat is more than just text messaging – it can handle photos and videos, as well – the app itself was originally conceived as little more than a proof of concept for OpenGarden&apos;s technology. &quot;It was supposed to be a test when we launched the app, and we got a huge spike from day one.&quot; Many assumed the app relied on a new technology introduced in Apple&apos;s recently released iOS 7, which is why it came &quot;as a surprise to everybody when we launched on Android a few weeks after.&quot;But the networking tech which makes it tick is OpenGarden&apos;s own, and in the long run, Benoliel hopes to see it used to enable internet access amongst communities where connectivity is poor or nonexistent. &quot;We believe there are, traditional players in connectivity, like the carriers, and the mobile operators. There is a new breed of player, like Google or Facebook, that are coming to the market with solutions which require billions of dollars of investment, and which can be also sometimes very experimental.&quot;Then there&apos;s OpenGarden. &quot;We are very pragmatic with our approach. We turn every smartphone, every smart device, into a router, into an internet node, and this can be done with no investment, thanks to a simple app that is completely free.&quot; The company plans to make its own income by charging businesses for a cut of the money they make speaking to customers on the app. &quot;That way, basically, we charge our partners for every dollar they make when normally they wouldn&apos;t be able to make it because they are not connected to a cellular tower or a wifi hotspot.&quot;Benoliel is at pains to point out that he&apos;s not competing with Facebook&apos;s Internet.org intiative, orGoogle X&apos;s plan to string up internet-enabled weather balloonsover areas with bad connectivity, saying &quot;that&apos;s great, and we need more and more capacity.&quot; But he wears the &quot;disruptive&quot; label with pride.&quot;Our first motivation has always been to provide free internet, and enable freedom of speech to a maximum number of people. Do I think it&apos;s going to change the world? Definitely.&quot;•BitTorrent sync wants to be your secure peer-to-peer Dropbox
It started as an experiment – as things often do in this industry. Icelandic game developer CCP wanted to find out what was possible with the Oculus Rift, a virtual reality (VR) gaming headset that has become a major tech phenomenon since its successful Kickstarter appeal in August 2012.So the company put a small team on a VR project and got to work. Since its main IP, the hugely successful online multiplayer title Eve: Online, features spaceships prominently, a space combat simulator seemed like the obvious start point.EVE: Valkyrie, then, puts players into the cockpit of a star fighter which must battle it out against a range of computer controlled craft in zero gravity. Imagine the swirling, fast-paced dog fights that defined Star Wars and Battlestar Galactica, and you have Valkyrie, except here it&apos;s interactive and utterly immersive.As we discovered at E3, no description can really prepare you for the experience of putting on the Rift and actually playing. Once the headset and earphones are in place, the outside world is obliterated and replaced with the a first-person view of the ship’s cockpit. Look left and right and you can see the cannons on the starfighter’s wings. Look down and you see &quot;your&quot; torso and legs in a flight suit. Look behind you and you can see the exit hatch.Of course, if Eve: Valkyrie was a traditional flight sim, you could do all of that using the thumbstick on a controller – but that’s the point: with the Rift, intuitive head movement replaces fiddly controls and the degree of immediate agency it gives you is staggering. For example, your ship’s missile lock is mapped to the Rift and, if you pull in the left trigger, it targets what you’re looking at – what&apos;s more, your target area increases exponentially the more you look around.Valkyrie is also built to combat the motion sickness that many people associate with virtual reality experiences. You never leave the cockpit, so you don&apos;t get the giddy feeling that often comes when controlling a character physically moving on screen. Also, thanks to the Rift’s Time Warp function – John Carmac’s software addition to Oculus’s headset – the frame rate appears faster than it is. This cuts down on motion blur and makes all the action look a lot crisper.Eve: Valkyrie may still be a long way from release and to a degree it still feels like a tech demo for the Oculus Rift (although it is also being developed for Sony&apos;s Project Morpheus headset). However, CCP is talking about linking the game in with EVE Online, and expanding its narrative, so that the dog-fighting action is part of the wider universe. We can also expect a range of spacecraft as well as customisable weapons, and team-based multiplayer action.But really, it&apos;s all about the feeling of being out there in space, surrounded by other ships, by satellites, by planets floating in the distance. If this turns out to be a genuine taste of what’s to come, the idea of virtual reality as a mainstream entertainment proposition has just got a little less outlandish.•Eve Valkyrie is currently scheduled for release on PC and PlayStation 4. release date is to be confirmed•EVE Valkyrie – the future of space combat in games and virtual reality•EVE Online fanfest: the party at the top of the world
YouTube&apos;srow with some independent labelsover the terms of the contract for its upcoming music subscription service has taken a new twist, with a version of the contract published in full online.Music industry site Digital Music News obtained a leaked version of the contract and published all 32 pages, with any legal hesitations not reflected in its headline:F*&amp;K It: Here’s the Entire YouTube Contract for Indies…The leak was wider and carefully targeted. Music industry site Billboard also obtained a copy of the contract, publishing its analysis – although not the actual document –late last week. The Guardian has also seen a copy of the contract.Independent labels trade bodyWIN has accused YouTube of trying to force its members to sign the contractwith threats that their videos will be blocked on its free service if they do not. The contract&apos;s publication sheds more light on the terms at the heart of this dispute.The most controversial clause concerns the ability of major labels to influence the rate of royalties paid to independents:&quot;To the extent that any major label agrees to any rates for the Google Services that are lower than the rates set forth in Exhibits C or D, including with respect to bundling, Google will have the right to reduce Provider’s analogous rates accordingly, following thirty (30) days written notice (via email will be sufficient) to Provider.&quot;Independent labels are worried about this due to the potential for major labels to accept lower royalty rates for streams of songs, in exchange for advances – upfront payments. This clause suggests that indies could then be forced down to the lower per-stream rates without getting the advances.Industry site Digital Music News published YouTube's contract sent to indie labels. Photograph: Digital Music NewsAnother clause provoking debate concerns “Catalogue Commitment and Monetization”:“It is understood that as of the Effective Date and throughout the Term, Provider’s entire catalogue of Provider Sound Recordings and Provider Music Videos (including Provider Music Videos delivered via a third party) will be available for the Premium and Free Services for use in connection with each type of Relevant Content, (excluding AudioSwap Recordings, which will be at Provider’s option) and set to a default policy of Monetize for both the Premium and Free Services, except as otherwise set forth in this agreement.”YouTube wants labels to make their entire catalogues available to stream on both its premium and free services – videos and audio recordings alike – while setting them all to have ads shown in and around them. That would be problematic for artists who want to withhold their music from YouTube, as some have done from streaming service Spotify.One important caveat to consider is that this is just a contract sent to indie labels: it indicates the terms that YouTube wanted them to sign up to, but it is not a reflection of the actual deals signed.This is another point of heated debate though. WIN claims that the contract sent to labels was non-negotiable, with no option to push back against some of these demands, as there would be in traditional dealmaking.That in itself shows why the publication of the YouTube contract is unlikely to settle any arguments. Any information about its non-negotiability, as well as the alleged threats to block labels&apos; channels if they didn&apos;t sign up – including whether that means remove them from YouTube entirely or simply block them from making money from advertising – was delivered outside the contract itself.To put it another way: until a smoking-gun email or more first-hand testimony from labels about exactly what they were told by YouTube is published, the arguments over whether the company is bullying labels or not will continue to rage.For its part, YouTube has claimed thatit has labels representing 95% of the recorded music industry signed up to its service, which is about to begin internal testing ahead of a public launch later this year.•From YouTube to Amazon, hold tech innovators to account
The British government has been accused of breaking the law by forcing telecoms and internet providers to retain records of phone calls, texts and internet usage, months after Europe&apos;s highest court said that such data retention breaches citizens&apos; fundamental right to privacy.Now it could face a high court challenge that would force it to strike down the law, enacted in 2009 by the previous Labour administration.The Data Retention (EC Direction) Act of 2009 was implemented by the last Labour government in response to the 2006 EU data retention directive, which required member states to store citizens&apos; telecoms data for a minimum of six months and a maximum of 24 months. Britain&apos;s implementation requires providers to keep data for 18 months.In April, the European court of justice declared the directive invalid. In an opinion delivered in January, the court&apos;s advocate general, Pedro Cruz Villalón, said that it constituted a &quot;serious interference with … the right to privacy and the right to protection of personal data&quot;.But despite the fact that the directive which mandated the creation of the UK act was struck down, the UK government has not yet moved to invalidate the Act.Answering a parliamentary question from Liberal Democrat MP Julian Huppertthe Home Office minister James Brokenshire revealed last week that the government had explicitly notified telecoms providers that &quot;they should continue to observe their obligations as outlined in any notice&quot;, despite the ruling.A Home Office spokesman said the department was &quot;looking at the issue as a matter of urgency, and deciding what steps need to be taken to ensure public authorities can continue to access communications data.&quot;However, we have advised communications service providers that the UK Data Retention (EC Directive) Regulations 2009 remain in force.&quot;The Home Office added that &quot;the retention of communications data is absolutely fundamental to ensure law enforcement have the powers they need to investigate crime, protect the public and ensure national security”.On Friday,Buzzfeed UK reported that Labour MP Tom Watson weighedin, asking &quot;whether public communications providers have sought advice&quot; from the Home Office. He received the same reply as Huppert did from James Brokenshire.In his opinion supporting the overturning of the data retention directive, Pedro Cruz Villalón, the EU Advocate General - charged with providing impartial advice to the ECJ – argued that the retention of such data &quot;may make it possible to create a both faithful and exhaustive map of a large portion of a person’s conduct strictly forming part of his private life, or even a complete and accurate picture of his private identity.&quot;He also highlighted the risk that the retained data might be used illegally in ways that are &quot;potentially detrimental to privacy or, more broadly, fraudulent or even malicious&quot;.Cruz Villalón also expressed concerns that data retained under the directive is not held by public authorities but by the providers themselves; and that it does not need to be physically stored in the EU but can be kept on servers anywhere in the world.Elizabeth Knight, of the Open Rights Group, said: &quot;In our view there is no legal basis for this continuing retention of data. When the European court of justice struck down the data retention directive this rendered the UK’s implementation of the directive unlawful.&quot;The government says it is considering carefully the judgment but it has had over two months to consider it. The grounds on which the government is advising ISPs to continue to retain data are unclear. The government must give a full explanation of why it believes ISPs should continue retaining their customers’ data.&quot;
Google Glass smartglasses are finally available in the UK for £1,000, two years after they wereextravagantly launched by skydiversin the US.The smartglasses have been praised by adherents who describe it as the evolution of wearable computing, while Google co-founder Sergey Brin has called them a way to &quot;free your eyes&quot;, anddescribed smartphones as &quot;emasculating&quot;.But they have also been the object of privacy objections, ridicule and even muggings in the US.The devices, costing £1,000, are now available for purchase by anyone over 18 years old and with a UK credit card and address.Google Glass consists of a pair of glasses with a small prism-based translucent screen-mounted above the right eye. It can take pictures or video from a front-facing camera, controlled by a voice command or a swipe on the right-hand armature, and is designed to display at-a-glance information on its screen which is visible only to the user. It runs a variant of Google’s Android mobile software, and relies on a smartphone for its data connectivity. Google says it offers about a day&apos;s battery life, or 45 minutes&apos; continuous video recording.“We know there’s a pent-up demand for Glass, from all over the world,” Ivy Ross, the new head of Glass, told the Guardian. “As we start to branch out we picked the UK first because we think it has a history of embracing technology, design and fashion, and I think there’s a resurgence happening in technology in the UK.”A £1,000 prototypeGoogle says the smartglasses are still in &quot;beta&quot; – prototype –form, despite being openly on sale, and that it wants early adopters to buy and use them and report back problems and suggestions so it can shape the future of the product, which is expected to eventually cost about the same as the average smartphone. However that figure is itself a moving target, expected to fall from around $300 worldwide in 2014 to $260 by 2018 according to IDC.Glass is available with prescription lenses, and there will soon be five swappable frames and eight sunglasses from the Belgian-born Americanfashion designer Diane von Fürstenberg. Users will be able to resell their Glass smartglasses, just like they could a mobile phone. Currently there are a number ofolder versions of Glass on sales on the UK eBay auction site, at prices close to £950, shipped from the US.Since Glass&apos;s introduction, Google has made five hardware revisions and twelve software updates. The UK variant will come with better battery life than earlier models, as well as customisations to adapt its voice recognition to the varied British accent.UK citizens can buy online and get it shipped directly to their door, but Google has also opened a trial and fitting “Basecamp&quot; centre in King’s Cross in London.Glass can run specialised Android apps called “Glassware”. Five new UK-specific apps will be available from launch, including the Guardian’s new app which sends breaking news alerts and a selection of other Guardian content to the smartglasses, as well as an apps from Star Chart, Shazam, Zombies Run andgoal.com.Designed with privacy in mindGoogle Glass has come under fire from privacy advocates because it can record video without subjects being aware of it, and that any video will be routed through Google&apos;s servers. Some restaurants and bars havebanned patronsfrom wearing them,as has a cinema chain. One woman had themstolen from her face after she began filming people in a US barwho then objected. The UK mayban Glass for drivers.But Ross called these bans “small isolated incidents” and said Google was not overly worried about them. “In 1890 they banned Kodak cameras from parks when they first came out,” she observed. “Quite frankly Glass is more obvious than other recording technologies. There are brooches you can wear that record video, so I don’t think that’s something to fear. We’re listening, but we’re not worried about those concerns.”Ross, who took over the job five weeks ago, insists that “Glass was designed with privacy in mind.”She says: “we certainly developed it out of the gate – the prototype – with what we thought would address those issues, but we are also totally listening and learning from our beta program. When the screen goes on you can see it [as a bystander] for instance,” she explained.“Any new technology always raises new issues and that’s one of the reasons we’re not saying it’s ready for prime time until we understand those issues.”Ross puts some of the privacy worries down to misunderstanding of the technology:“With some things we have found, where those concerns over privacy have cropped up in the US, when people actually try it, even legislators, and put it on their face a lot of those concerns go away.”“The unknown is sometimes scarier than the known,” she said.There are also fears that people with valuable technology on their face could be the target of muggings. While they can’t necessarily help users recover their gadget Ross explained that, “we have lock features, like a smartphone, and if you sign into MyGlass you can remotely wipe it and return it to the factory condition to remove everything.”&apos;Every consumer has an occupation&apos;Debate has raged over whether Glass and smartglasses like it have any viable real-world use cases for consumers, or are more interesting to businesses where workers need hands-free access to information. Virgin Airlines has trialled them at Heathrow Airport for staff welcoming its Upper Class passengers, while surgeons have used the video relay capability to show themselves carrying out operations for teaching purposes.Ross thinks both businesses and consumers will be interested in Glass in the long run.“What you’re seeing now is that the people in businesses that acquired them are coming up with all these amazing use cases for it, but the same thing is happening with consumers – artists, mums, dads, school teachers, scientists – they’re doing amazing things with it too,” said Ross.“We designed it with the consumer in mind, but every consumer has an occupation. Like a doctor could use it in his practice with certain modifications and at home. When we come out and do our true broader launch it will be for the consumer,” she said.Whether Glass will ever become a mass-market product, and smartglasses take off, is still unclear. Google is hedging its bets, however, with its new Android Wear and smartwatch initiative which is expected to be shown off at Google’s I/O developer conference in San Francisco later this week.•Ray-Ban maker, Luxottica, partners with Google to make frames and shades for Glass
Complex, demanding, uncompromising, Battlefield is one of the most polarising games in the modern industry. EA’s multiplayer first-person shooter franchise attracts a fanatical group of hardcore devotees, but at the same time, swarms of players find it too exacting and intimidating. While Call of Duty is a garish fantasy of modern military conflict, Battlefield is almost documentary-like in its gritty authenticity.The latest iteration, Battlefield: Hardline, is a major departure from the tried-and-tested formula, conceived and designed with the overt intention of bringing the brand squarely into the mainstream. It is not so much a reboot, however, as a spin-off; it&apos;s being handled by Visceral Games (of Dead Space fame) rather than Battlefield’s long-term developer DICE, which we can safely assume is still working on new versions of the core game. Like Bad Company, then, the aim is to produce a remix on the standard Battlefield dish rather than an entirely new menu.Police and thieves in the streetsThe obvious change is in the subject matter – the po-faced miltary theme of previous Battlefield titles has been discarded in favour of a cops versus robbers setting. In the single-player campaign, missions take place throughout the US, following detective Nick Mendoza on a quest to take down some rotten cops. The multiplayer game, meanwhile, pits SWAT teams against criminal super groups, in a range of both familiar and fresh competitive modes.After a substantial play of the E3 demo, it seems Battlefield: Hardline may well achieve its aim of being more welcoming to, &quot;teh noobs&quot;. We jumped in to a match on the side of the criminals. The only mode on offer – Blood Money – turns out be a spin on the familiar &quot;capture the flag&quot; option. Each side has a vault to protect – for the cops it&apos;s where they place stolen money recovered from the robbers; for the criminals, it&apos;s where they safeguarded their hoard. The object is to make it to the enemy vault, steal a chunk of cash and take it back to your own. It&apos;s an odd set up for the cops to be effectively engaging in the same &quot;steal the cash&quot; gameplay as the crims, but it&apos;s exciting and fun, so we&apos;ll let it pass.This being Battlefield, you can jump into any vehicles you come across – and this is where the first evidence that Battlefield: Hardline is much more forgiving than its military predecessors emerges. Cars, motorbikes and vans feel much more intuitive to control than than the tanks and APCs of previous titles; although, those playing as cops can jump into a helicopter on the police station’s roof, which is just as challenging to pilot as ever. At one point, we manage to hitch a pillion ride on a motorbike ridden by another player, generating some excellent driving-and-shooting action – thoroughly satisfying until the driver took us way off course.Beyond the general theme, the gameplay is much as you would expect from Battlefield, and the weaponry if familiar. We sampled a sawn-off shotgun and an assault rifle, but cops do get tasers and tear gas to add some urban flavour. There are also several types of law enforcement in evidence – including riot police and SWAT-style military outfits.Refreshingly, there was a distinct absence of sniping in our session. A common complaint of those trying out Battlefield for the first time is that they get taken out from a mile away more or less whenever they set foot on a map. Of course, sniper rifles will be part of the armoury, but perhaps they won&apos;t be quite as domineering as they have been in the past. Certainly the pace of the game is much faster than in the more considered predecessors.LA takedownThe city maps are large and open, with a notable vertical component. In the mode we played, set throughout downtown LA, one of the vaults is at the bottom of a multi-storey car park, while you can also gain access to a skyscraper. There looks to be plenty of familiar Battlefield-style environmental destruction too – as witnessed in a scene when a construction crane collapses tearing through a nearby office block.The full extent of Battlefield: Hardline’s multiplayer functionality currently remains unconfirmed – and more modes should be revealed soon. As for the campaign, we&apos;d love to see two interlinked stories, one from each faction’s perspective; this could go a long way toward answering the main criticism of previous versions of the game: that their single-player modes were almost cursory additions.There’s no doubt that Battlefield: Hardline will be much more approachable for those who haven’t bought into its predecessors. But one wonders what the Battlefield hardcore will make of that. Visceral also has some work to do to prove this is a genuine cops and robbers experience, and not just Battlefield in a police uniform rather than army fatigues.•Battlefield: Hardline is due out on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 21 October•EA E3 2014 press conference – the five key points
A summer of headline-grabbing sport is arguably the best reason you'll have all year to upgrade your TV. But with the humble gogglebox now packing a baffling array of technology, it's no easy task deciding which 2014 flatscreen is right for you. Almost all larger sets (from 32 inches) now connect to the internet for catch-up TV and streaming-video services from the likes of Netflix and Amazon, but usability can vary dramatically. An increasing number also offer Ultra HD resolution, potentially a big picture improvement over Full HD high-definition. Samsung is even championing curved screens for an authentic cinematic experience at home. To help you decide, here's our guide.Sony KD-65X9005BMonster 65" screen offers Ultra HD resolution and hi-fi sound, £3,600If you want a premium view of the World Cup final or a courtside seat at Wimbledon, then Sony's massive flagship is the TV to take home. Adopting a distinctive wedge-shape design to accommodate a surprisingly high quality sound system, this 4K Ultra HD TV has four times the picture resolution of a regular HD screen.At the moment there's little native 4K material around to take advantage of all this pixel power, outside of the Netflix 4K app provided (and even then you'll not find much more than season two of politico dramaHouse of Cards), but thankfully Sony's X-Reality pro processor does a wondrous job of upscaling everyday Full HD TV. Combine that with best-in-class motion handling and you have a set that's pitch perfect for sports as well as movies. The high 8m pixel count also means you can sit closer to the set without eye strain. In addition to BBC iPlayer and Demand5 catch-up, Sony's Active Shutter 3D-capable X9 also tempts with YouTube and On Demand movie and TV services, plus a dedicated football mode with optimised picture and sound settings.VerdictYou'll need a large room to accommodate it, but this is arguably the best TV you can buy right now, with championship sound and vision quality.Samsung UE55HU8500This curved 55" Ultra HD TV is cinematic and only a tad gimmicky, £2,699If you want something different from your next big-screen TV, then Samsung's curvaceous HU8500 could be just the ticket. The gently curving screen is a remarkable technical achievement, and as befits its premium Ultra HD status, it offers a superbly sharp and dynamic picture. Quad HD details reveal the footwork of Ronaldo and Messi with clinical precision. So why the curve? Samsung argues it's more immersive. There's some truth to this. Sit close and dead-centre and images seem positively three dimensional, even without resorting to 3D glasses. However, park yourself slightly offside and the picture can look a little wonky. It also looks pretty silly when wall-mounted. Other features include advanced gesture and voice control (now a Samsung speciality) and extensive catch-up TV and streaming video services, alongside some clever mobile device interaction.VerdictIt remains to be seen if Samsung's cutesy curve is the future of TV, but this forward-looking 4K set is certainly eye-catching.LG 47LB730VSuper Smart WebOS 47" TV is delightfully simple to use, £999Some TVs are so smart they appear almost sentient. Unfortunately, they can also be intimidating to use. LG has sought to challenge that with a new breed of internet-connected TVs that use the WebOS operating system. What's so wonderful about this platform is the clever net-connected bits don't appear to be grafted on to a less intelligent set. From the simple graphical setup to the way connected services (Netflix, BBC iPlayer, Amazon, YouTube among others) can be used as easily as regular live TV, courtesy of the colourful WebOS launch bar, this set is unapologetically fun to use. The entire thing can be driven by an intuitive Bluetooth remote with refreshingly few buttons. This elegantly designed 47" TV also delivers sharp, vibrant hi-def images straight from the box.Motion handling is excellent, making it a great choice for sports. The set's Passive 3D system though suffers from double imaging, and is a little uncomfortable to use.VerdictFresh and ingenious, LG's WebOS take on Smart TV demands to be seen. A great mid-range buy.Philips 48PFS6609Internet connected 3D 48" TV with Ambilight mood lighting, £750Enthusiasts say that once you've lived with an Ambilight TV, you'll never want to go without again – and it's easy to see why. These Philips TVs use rear-facing LED lights to cast an atmospheric glow around the room. They can even change hue to match what's on the screen, for example bathing the entire room in centre-court green. Even without the Ambilight feature engaged this is a striking looking TV, with smart aluminium trim and wire-frame stand. It's the perfect choice for interior-design aficionados. Internet connected functionality isn't a strong point though; this 6-Series model has a relatively small selection of connected apps (key attractions are BBC iPlayer, Netflix and YouTube). HD image quality is preternaturally sharp (Philips often over-eggs its picture processing) so you'll need to invest time tweaking the set for the most naturalistic pictures. The end result is worth the effort though.VerdictA quality flatscreen made all the more desirable by Ambilight, which is just lovely to live with.Panasonic TX-47AS650Fancy Freetime rollback programme guide has rivals playing catch-up, £980This slick 47-incher is the first Panasonic TV to feature a Freetime rollback programme guide, allowing viewers to scroll back seven days using the TV's familiar programme listing to find shows they might have missed. Provided the shows are available on catch-up (this set supports the main channel replay services: BBC iPlayer, ITV Player, Demand5 and 4OD), you can just select them directly. It's a lot easier than having to launch individual catch-up apps. Such canny ease of use extends to a customisable home screen, which allows users to cherry-pick their favourite services, and My Stream, a curated content-guide based on personal recommendations. Couple these innovations to the set's outstanding hi-def image quality and you have a TV that's hard to resist.VerdictIf you're crazy about catch-up, then this model will be right up your street.
Capybara Games; Xbox360/Xbox One (version tested); 12+; £12A thousand sci-fi stories have cautioned that, while time-travelling, it is a good idea to avoid stepping on butterflies. The Super Time Force has no truck with such niceties. They’re the kinda crew who chant &quot;USA, USA&quot; as they approach an alien mothership or steal the Holy Grail just to sell it on eBay. Unfortunately for humanity, this is also the only squad that can save Earth from a series of apolcaylptic mishaps.The gloriously irreverent tone of this side-scrolling shooter neatly supports its core mechanic: using time travel to create undulated chaos. The retro 80s-stylings might make levels look like standard run-and-gun affairs at first, but at any moment you can pause and rewind time, before spawning another character or a copy of your current one. The ethereal originals then continue about their business, so in the tradition of modern indie classic Braid, you work with your former selves to progress. There’s no escaping this: time is short and death frequent. You have 60 seconds to complete any mission and a single hit will kill you.Part of the joy of this is unlearning years of schooled platforming, particularly during boss fights. You’ve waged a battle of attrition with giant robots a million times before and you think you know the formula: take a chunk off its shields until it moves to the next cycle where it’s vulnerable. Rinse and repeat. Not here. Here, if you wait for the cycles you’ll run out of time. Instead, you rewind and respawn until there are 16 copies of you capable of vanquishing the shields in four seconds. The resulting replays are exhilarating and hilarious in equal measure.If there’s a criticism, it’s that this tactic makes it all-too-easy to bludgeon your way through with sheer force of numbers. Only a handful of levels offer the opportunity to fail outright, like escaping from rising lava, and while there’s plenty of visual invention on display in campaigns dating from 1,000,000BC to 3072AD, there’s sometimes so much occurring on screen that you’ll be hard pressed to notice. The multitude of enemies hurled at you also means avoiding oncoming projectiles can become almost impossible, particularly when niggly controls prevent you aiming properly at diagonals.Persevere and impose some self-discipline, however, and you can begin to combine the charming cast of characters in inventive ways. Each of the dozen unlockable crew members brings different skills to the table. Amy McKillin’s bullets bounce off walls with regular attacks and go straight through them when charged, making her a crack sniper. Zackasaurus – a skateboarding, Ray-ban-wearing dinosaur – chomps enemies down in a single bite. Shieldy Blockerson... well you can guess what he does.Best of the bunch is Force leader Colonel Repeatski, a mad scientist boasting two eye-patches and more medals than Leonid Brezhnev. Repeatski’s battles with Dr. Infinity, spewing insults like &quot;super lame force&quot; as he unleashes his robot army upon the earth, form the heart of the story. This is perhaps over-egged in its cutscenes, which is disappointing for something otherwise so delightfully silly, but you forgive it for the intense action just around the corner. The jubilation upon completing a mission with a fraction of a second to spare is enough to inspire first-pumping.It’s ultimately a short game but replayability lays in beating the clock as fast and innovatively as possible. Producing videos more stylish than your friends could make this the new Spelunky, although the deaths here are rarely as hilarious. Completion also unlocks a &quot;Super Hardcore Mode&quot; that ensures characters stay dead, bringing new levels of complexity and greatly increasing the challenge.Who cares about the butterfly effect? It’s time to use the Force. (Sorry).
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFor $10,000, your car can drive itself &gt;&gt; The VergeThis is the first public demo of Cruise, a new technology and business from a Y Combinator startup aptly named Cruise Automation. It's designed as a computer-controlled driving system that can take over when you're behind the wheel. Turn it on like typical cruise control and it will keep the car going, but the added smarts will steer, brake, and avoid objects.Unlike more expensive and complex technologies like the one Google's shown off recently, Cruise is not a replacement for the driver, nor one that will be capable of getting you from point A to point B on all roads. Instead, it's been designed to exist somewhere between Google's fully automated self-driving car and the cruise control you'd find in your car today."Driver-assisted", as car makers call it. Doesn't work in rain, fog or darkness, but Google's aren't ideal in all those either. Cheaper and proximate. (Thanks @timacheson for the link.)Heartbleed-based BYOD hack pwns insurance giant Aviva's iPhones &gt;&gt; The RegisterMobile device management systems at insurance giant Aviva UK were last month hit by an attack based on the Heartbleed exploit that allowed hackers to royally screw with workers' iPhones.The insurance giant has played down the breach but El Reg's mole on the inside claims Aviva is in talks about moving to a new platform in the wake of the incident.Aviva was using BYOD service MobileIron to manage more than 1,000 smart devices such as iPhones and iPads. On the evening of the 20 May, a hacker compromised the MobileIron admin server and posted a message to those handhelds and the email accounts, according to our source.The hacker then performed a full wipe of every device and subsequently took out out the MobileIron server itself.Ouch. MobileIron out, BlackBerry Enterprise Server MDM in, apparently. (Though it's not necessarily BYOD.) Will Heartbleed turn into BlackBerry's enterprise saviour?Update:we understand from one of the parties that it wasnota Heartbleed hack. Someone apparently got logon details at the reseller and wiped Aviva's systems. MobileIron isn't vulnerable to Heartbleed.Microsoft Surface Pro 3 review &gt;&gt; AnandTechAnand Lai Shimpi:When I reviewed the first Surface Pro I was intrigued by the idea, but felt it needed a few more iterations to get to the right point. In less than two years what we have in front of us looks very different than Microsoft's original vision for the platform. Display size, aspect ratio and even the mechanics of the whole thing are all quite different. The changes are for the better as Surface Pro 3 is a much better laptop and a much better tablet than any of its predecessors. The device no longer feels cramped and tiring to use as a laptop. The new Surface Pro no longer feels heavy to use as a tablet either. It's truly an improvement on both vectors.Microsoft might be overselling the design to say that it truly is the only device you need. Like most compromises, Surface Pro 3 isn't the world's best laptop nor is it the world's best tablet. It serves a user who wants a little of column A and a little of column B.…Personally I find that Android and iOS deliver better tablet experiences particularly when it comes to 3rd party applications. If everything you need on the tablet front is available in the Windows Store however then the point is moot.…I don't know how big the professional productivity tablet market is, but it's a space that Microsoft seems to have almost exclusive reign over with its Surface line.Smartphone shipments to China unlikely to surpass 400m units in 2014 &gt;&gt; Digitimes ResearchThe high cost of 4G service, unsatisfactory communication quality during the initial period, and the limited availability of 4G entry-level smartphones have caused consumers in China to be unwilling to upgrade their services to 4G. In addition, as carriers just stopped providing subsidies for entry-level/mid-range 3G smartphones in May and started turning to subsidise 4G models in June, some consumers have delayed their plans to purchase a new smartphone for the second quarter.Digitimes Research believes that vendors will gradually digest their 3G inventories in the third quarter, and 4G smartphones priced below CNY1,000 (US$161) will start to appear in July, pumping up China's domestic smartphone shipments. However, China's smartphone shipments are unlikely to break 400m units as originally expected due to 4G smartphones' failure to become popular in China in the first half."Only" 400m.Four myths about Apple design, from an ex-Apple designer &gt;&gt; Co.DesignMark Kawano was there for seven years:"I think the biggest misconception is this belief that the reason Apple products turn out to be designed better, and have a better user experience, or are sexier, or whatever . . . is that they have the best design team in the world, or the best process in the world," Kawano says. But in his role as user experience evangelist, meeting with design teams from Fortune 500 companies on a daily basis, he absorbed a deeper truth."It's actually the engineering culture, and the way the organization is structured to appreciate and support design. Everybody there is thinking about UX and design, not just the designers. And that's what makes everything about the product so much better . . . much more than any individual designer or design team."Amazon and Android forks &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansThe FirePhone runs an AOSP fork of Android:Amazon is testing the proposition that you have to have Play (or iTunes) and Google Maps to sell a smartphone outside China - or, rather, it is testing just how good the app store and maps have to be. How many of the latest cutting-edge apps do you have to have, if you cover the basics? How close do you have to get to Google Maps' coverage? We know Windows Phone does not have enough apps, but can the Amazon store get there?These same questions apply to any Android OEM that might be thinking of asserting greater independence from Google (such as Samsung), with a further complication. Google's agreements with OEMs have been leaked several times, and they include clauses that prevent you from having a foot in both camps: you cannot sell a forked device and carry on selling official Google Android devices. So you can't experiment on the margins (Samsung can't sell a phone running Amazon's Fire software) - you have to walk away from Google entirely, or not at all. That's really no choice at all at the moment.All of this takes us to the elemental question - why, exactly, are you forking Android?As one commenter suggests, in Amazon's case it's because it doesn't want to be shut out by Google - the same reason Google bought and developed Android: to avoid being shut out by Microsoft from mobile search.Millennials shy away from voicemail &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comA spokeswoman for Vonage reported that voice mail deposits had dropped by 8 percent from October 2013 to April of this year. (Data was not available by age.) And a2012 Pew report on the phone habits of children age 12 to 17confirmed various truths we hold to be self-evident: Teenagers are texting more (sending and receiving a median of 60 a day in 2011 versus 50 in 2009) and calling far less on their cellphones than they used to. Those who make daily landline calls to friends have become nearly extinct: 14 percent as compared with 30 percent in 2009.Apple's new $1,099 iMac is a MacBook Air in a desktop's body &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaWhile the $1,299 model gets you a quad-core, 2.7GHz Core i5-4570R and Intel's best integrated GPU (the Iris Pro 5200), the $1,099 model comes with a dual-core 1.4GHz Core i5-4260U and Intel's third-best integrated GPU (the HD 5000). This is the exact same processor included in the speed-bumped MacBook Airs that Apple introduced in April.That CPU can't be upgraded at purchase, nor can the 8GB of RAM Apple includes in the unit……The new iMac will be appreciated more by people who just want an Apple all-in-one and don't really care about speed. This describes many casual users, as well as schools and businesses that deploy iMacs to end users and in computer labs.Basically, a poo deal unless you're simply after cheap(ish).You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
US crowdfunding startupPatreonhas raised $15m (£8.8m) of Series A funding from backers including venture capital firm Index Ventures, Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian and former PayPal president David Marcus.The company was founded in 2013 as a way to help YouTube stars augment their income from advertising on Google&apos;s video service with direct donations from fans. It has since attracted more than 25,000 musicians, authors, filmmakers, journalists and other creators to use its platform.Co-founder Jack Conte is one half ofPomplamoose, a band whose covers, mash-ups and original songs have been watched nearly 100m times on YouTube. &quot;Our mission as a company is to fund and empower the emerging creative class, and this round of financing will help us do exactly that,&quot; said Conte, in a statement.&quot;Every partner that we add to Patreon, every investor, adviser, and employee, is an advocate of the creator­centric, creator­-first philosophy that Patreon employs.&quot;Patreon works by getting fans to become &quot;patrons&quot; of creators who have signed up to the service, committing to pay small amounts every time they release a new piece of content like a song, video or article. Patreon keeps a 5% share of the donations.According to Conte, Patreon is signing up 180 new creators a day, and has distributed more than $2m to its community in the 13 months since it launched – with $1m of that coming in the past two months.As a guide,Conte himself uses Patreonto support his music, and at the time of writing has 1,334 patrons committing a total of $5,337 per video. Creators can also use monthly subscription models: comic creatorZach Weinersmith has 3,213 patronscommitting $8,425 a month, for example.The $15m funding round was led by Index Ventures, with fellow investment firms Charles River Ventures, Thrive Capital, Freestyle Capital, Atlas Ventures and SV Angel also participating. Talent agencies UTA and CAA also chipped in. It follows a$2.1m seed funding round in August 2013.Conte said that Patreon will be expanding its team and moving into its first proper office, as well as building a mobile app for iOS and Android devices, making its current service &quot;clearer, easier, deeper&quot; and launching new products to help creators.•Kickstarter: a platform for investment, philanthropy or shopping?
Wandering the densely packed showfloor at E3 this month, it was tempting to think that nothing about video games has changed much over the past few years. This gigantic video game show, which attracts 40,000 publishers, developers, players and journalists every year, is an unashamedly mainstream event – a raucous celebration of multimillion dollar mega brands all attempting to out-hype each other.But there were more subtle trends to observe beneath the simulated gunfire, sword clashes and engine noise. The rise of independent video games and the influence of smartphones and social media are all having an effect on game creators, even in the biggest Triple A brands like Call of Duty and Assassin&apos;s Creed.So here are five of the most transformative ideas bubbling under the surface of video game design.ProceduralityOne of the most expensive and time consuming elements of game creation is generating the assets needed to fill a game&apos;s environment. Vast teams of artists and animators work for years to create realistic cities, vehicles and rural landscapes. But as games grow in size, that approach will become less tenable. This is one reason why dozens of developers are experimenting with procedural content generation (PCG), in which the computer is given the parameters for design and then allowed to make pretty much everything itself. The building game Minecraft is the key example, of course – its blocky worlds are generated via algorithms that understand the basic requirements of geography and geology.At E3, the most prominent examples were space exploration games like Elite: Dangerous and No Man&apos;s Sky, which both generate vast galaxies for the player to fly through. However, the concept underpinned dozens of titles on the E3 showfloor this year, especially smaller indie projects like Road Not Taken. It&apos;s not a new idea, of course (the most influential procedurally generated game, Rogue, was developed in 1980), but increasing processing power means developers are able to be much more ambitious. Indeed, PCG is now being used to generate stories and characters as well as environments. Titles like Red Dead Redemption and Elder Scrolls: Skyrim have featured procedurally generated side-quests in the past, but it&apos;s not inconceivable that games could one day create epic missions and narratives each time a game loads up providing every player with a unique experience.AsymmetryMultiplayer games used to be either cooperative (all the participants work together) or competitive (the participants fight each other) and the two largely existed apart. Not anymore. This E3 saw the intense sci-fi shooter Evolve, which allows four players to become hunters and another player to take control of the alien beast they&apos;re looking to take down. Similarly, in the role-playing fantasy Fable: Legends, four player become adventurers working together to explore, while another person acts as a sort of &quot;Dungeon Master&quot;, organising the enemy creatures and laying down traps.We may well see this concept becoming more complex as game makers continue to explore the connectivity between console/PC games and portable devices like smartphones and tablets. Last year&apos;s first-person shooter Battlefield 4 allowed one player tobecome a commanderoverseeing the battle area on a tablet computer, and using the touch display to point out enemies and arrange air strikes; the Nintendo Wii U is actually built around this whole idea of &quot;second screen&quot; functionality, in which one player with the GamePad device has a different view than the other participants.It&apos;s likely the next generation of games will explore the idea of asymmetrical interaction further, allowing players to find their own specialist roles within virtual worlds, based on their skills and preferences.SeamlessnessActivision&apos;s ambitious space opera Destiny is likely to be the most expensive video game ever made ($500m and counting), and much of that money is going into the seamless multiplayer functionality. Players are able to explore the game&apos;s vast landscapes alone, but they will often run into areas where they&apos;re suddenly matched with other people online and can choose to play in special missions with them. There will also be dedicated player vs player combat areas, which can be accessed within the game, without having to go through a special play mode or lobby system. It&apos;s the same in Sunset Overdrive, a colourful shooter for Xbox One, set in a small town suddenly filled with dangerous mutants. At any point, participants can enter a phone box in the single-player mode and access a multiplayer competitive game, just like that.Meanwhile, action adventure games like Dark Souls and Watch Dogs have various ways in which other players can temprarily access your lone campaign, and vice versa, introducing interesting social mechanics; and driving games like Forza and DriveClub are continuing to blur the lines between racing against computer-controlled cars and other players – thanks in part to the arrival of cloud-based servers and persistent online worlds, which make it easy for games to seamlessly connect players into ad-hoc social spaces.In the future, every monster you fight in a game could be controlled by another player, and at any point, you could invite a friend of stranger to play beside you, or against you. The old divisions between the story mode and the multiplayer mode could disappear forever.PerformanceGamers aren&apos;t just players anymore – they want to share and create as much as consume. Both the Xbox One and the PlayStaton 4 are designed to allow owners to very quickly broadcast their gaming experiences over the web, either live on the popular Twitch service or recorded, via YouTube. In short, games are becoming a spectator event, both through content streaming, and through the rise of e-sports, professional gaming tournaments viewed by millions across the world. Even for those not good enough to go pro, it&apos;s not just about trying to win anymore, it&apos;s about doing it stylishly and then showing off to friends. Increasingly, designers are incorporating this into the very mechanics of their games.At the same time, titles like Minecraft, The Sims and LittleBigPlanet have encouraged players to create their own worlds, missions, levels and ideas – and to share these with others. Level editors have been around for years, but now it&apos;s much easier for players to share their creations with others. At E3 this year we saw the introduction of a level editor to ultraviolent indie sequel Hotline Miami 2, and the announcement of Mario Maker, a game that lets fans create their own Super Mario platform levels.Games aren&apos;t just about consumption, they are now very much about community and creativity. As game creation tools like Game Maker, Twine and Game Salad become more accessible, the barriers between designer and player are falling away.PersistenceThe idea of cross-platform functionality – i.e. a game that can work across many different formats from consoles to phones – has been around for several years. However, as publishers seek to tie customers in to a limited number of super brands, it&apos;s likely to become much more common. The availability of vast cloud-based online infrastructures means that game worlds can now sit on servers rather than on individual devices – so there&apos;s no reason you can&apos;t start playing a game on your PlayStation 4, then get on a bus and keep playing it on your Vita or smartphone, before going to a friends house and picking it up on their tablet.Square Enix for example, is working on a networking technology it callsProject Flare, which in theory would allow for vast fantasy gaming worlds, up to 32km x 32km, stored on the cloud and accessible from an array of devices.It&apos;s also likely that games will continue to exploit and explore the conventions developed by search and social media giants like Google, Facebook and Apple. On a basic level, this will mean location-specific weather conditions in games (i.e. if it&apos;s raining outside, it&apos;s raining in your game), but if you look at the 3DS and Vita location-based multiplayer elements – which show you if there are people neaby playing the same games as you – we&apos;re entering into interesting social gaming territory. Add in push notifications and augmented reality features, and in the future, we&apos;re likely to see many more games that stay with you all the time, and react to where you are.
Two months after the infamousHeartbleed bugwas revealed, more than 300,000 systems connected to the internet remain vulnerable to attacks exploiting the vulnerability.When security researchers carried out a scan of web servers and other connected devices after the revelations on Heartbleed, a vulnerability in much-used encryption standard OpenSSL, 600,000 systems were affected.On Saturday, Errata Security’s Robert Graham said a month after Heartbleed broke, more than 300,000 were still open to attack and that figure had barely moved following a scan on 20 June. Now, 309,197 are still vulnerable, he added.“This indicates people have stopped even trying to patch. We should see a slow decrease over the next decade as older systems are slowly replaced,” Graham added in ablog post. “Even a decade from now, though, I still expect to find thousands of systems, including critical ones, still vulnerable.”Heartbleed can be fixed by updating OpenSSL, which can be done by following the correct links onthe open-source project’s official websiteor by updating operating systems that carry the code. Anyone still running vulnerable systems should update their encryption keys too, as they may have already been stolen.While servers running many of the world’s websites were left vulnerable by Heartbleed, leading to compromises of data on a handful of sites includingMumsnet, other devices could also be attacked if left open. These include CCTV cameras, webcams, baby monitors and mobile applications.Attackers can steal encryption keys and other data from vulnerable machines by sending requests that trick them into coughing up more data from their memory than they should.It’s likely people are failing to patch out of “simple ignorance as to the importance of the task, the fact they are vulnerable or the process to be followed”, said James Lyne, global head of security research at Sophos“We see this every day with other web attacks … which are trivial to fix but still show up to the order of 30,000 new hacked sites a day.There was also confusion around what Heartbleed was, with some believing it was a virus, when in reality it was a weakness in the design of the OpenSSL software that could have been exploited. Thatmany Heartbleed detectors didn’t work properlyonly exacerbated the problem.There now appears to be “a sense of auto update”, Lyne added. “Many have gotten rather used to auto updating built in to our everyday technology. Manual intervention like this is an unusual experience for most admins, so perhaps it has fallen on confused ears.”Adrian Hayter, from security consultancy Hut3, said there were many Linux operating system versions that contained the flawed code. “Any system that is based on these old distributions would be vulnerable if they have not been updated.”Hayter added that the vast numbers of machines that remain vulnerable may be sitting in large hosting companies.“I would imagine that there are a lot of hosting companies which provide shared hosting environments in Linux that have not been updated, purely because these systems are not created with security in mind - they are very cheap, meant for low budget websites, and the hosting company doesn&apos;t care much about the data on them.”•Heartbleed: what do you actually need to do to stay secure?
Apple&apos;s introduction of a &quot;kill switch&quot; in its iPhone software last September has cut thefts of the phones across the board, according to data from London, New York and San Francisco – while those of other smartphones have continued to rise.Now Google and Microsoft are working on similar implementations for their future software to deter thieves from stealing and reselling wiped smartphones.Thefts of iPhones in London fell by 24% in the first five months of 2014 compared to 2013, while in San Francisco they fell by 38%, and in New York by 19%, according to datafrom the New York attorney general&apos;s &quot;Secure Our Smartphones&quot; initiative, following the introduction of the kill switch – officially called &quot;activation lock&quot; – feature in the iOS 7 mobile software which lets owners remotely wipe and lock their phones if they are stolen.An iPhone that has been remotely wiped requires the owner&apos;s name and password to reactivate it, or else remains encrypted and blocks further use.Apple data suggests that about 89%of iPhones and iPads are now using iOS 7.The fall in thefts came even as the number of iPhones in circulation kept rising, as measured by the research companies Kantar and ComScore. In 2013, New York set up a special police unit to deal with iPhone thefts - and in June 2013 deputy police commissioner Paul Browne complained that the overall crime rate in the city had risen by 3%, but would have fallen without iPhone thefts.But thefts of Samsung devices, which don&apos;t have the same locking option, rose by 51% in New York, the attorney general said. In April, the south Korean company introduced a feature calledReactivation Lockfor its top-end phones such as the Galaxy S5. It requires users to set up an account with Samsung, rather than using the Google account through which owners initially activate their phones. It has to be activated separately, rather than being part of the default setup of the phone, as with iOS 7&apos;s Activation Lock.Now lawmakers are pressuring Google and Microsoft to introduce similar functionality into their devices so that owners of those devices have similar protection.Microsoftsays in a blogpostfrom 19 June that it is working with an industry body, the CTIA, to extend the &quot;Find My Phone&quot; features in Windows Phone to include the ability to remotely wipe and lock, and prevent reactivation without a username and password.But Microsoft offered no timescale beyond confirming that it will do this &quot;before the CTIA goal of July 2015&quot;.Google has also indicated that it will include a similar &quot;kill switch&quot; in a future version of its Android mobile operating software. But it&apos;s unclear how quickly that would be taken up, because the huge number of Android devices in use, and the slow pace of software updates from handset makers, means that a minority of users are on the latest version: according toGoogle&apos;s own data, 13.6% of users are on the latest &quot;KitKat&quot; version, released in October 2013; by contrast 58.4% are on versions released between July 2012 and July 2013, and another 28% on versions dating back as far as May 2010.Googlereleaseda downloadable app,Android Device Manager, in August 2013 to help Android owners locate and wipe lost phones, but it is optional rather than built into the operating system, and doesn&apos;t lock the phone against future use.Experts still want firmer kill switches to be introduced that permanently disable smartphones. Those used at the moment by Apple on Samsung rely on a signal being sent to the phone to lock it, or a password to keep out unwanted users, and experts have warned that turning a phone off or placing it in airline mode can block signal from reaching it.According to the most recent report into smartphone theft in the UK, more than 800,00 devices are stolen each year.•Yo founder apologises for hack - and hires one of his hackersThis article was corrected on 24 June: the data about smartphone thefts came from the New York attorney general&apos;s office, not IDG.
Claire Rafferty, the Chelsea and England left-back, thumps the ball goalward, prompting a cheer from a nearby iPad. Crouched over the screen a few seconds later she seems satisfied. "Did I get it over the wall? I'm gonna say yes. Happy with that."Despite resembling an ordinary football, and having the dubious accolade of being Fifa-approved, the AdidasmiCoachSmart Ball contains complex sensors embedded in a tiny "pit", like the stone in a cherry. The pit is suspended at the centre of the bladder by elasticated struts, allowing it to precisely gauge the spin, power and trajectory of the struck ball. Mechanics of this complexity, housed in a casing durable enough to repeatedly withstand the left boot of an international footballer, don't come cheap – the ball costs £250 – but Rafferty is impressed.The Chelsea training ground in Surrey is a modern environment, with inflatable domes and big screens for reviewing match clips mid-practice. "They're working on underground heating on one of the pitches" says Rafferty, "you could probably live out here." An e-football, however, is unheard of thus far. "We used to have this wall you could kick a ball at which would tell you how fast you kicked it. This technology would be a first for us, it's innovative, and it could be very effective."The ball doesn't only provide instant feedback on individual kicks, it also demonstrates the exact physics of the ball's flight through elegant graphics within an app, plots each kick on various graphs and provides extensive instructions for improvement. Rafferty scrutinises these after her second attempt – a Ronaldo-style spinless dipping kick. "I'm more of a whipper," she says, dissatisfied.The Smart Ball is designed to help with all dead-ball situations – free kicks, corners, goal kicks, penalties. "Don't mention penalties!" pleads Rafferty, "I missed a penalty in the World Cup!" It is a pertinent memory. "At the top level, in a World Cup, that fine detail is win-or-lose. I could have done with one of these."If Rafferty sees the Smart Ball as a professional tool, to be used in centres of excellence like the one at Millwall where she trained, is it also worthwhile for amateurs? "I would have begged for one of these from my mum when I was little. But obviously you'd have to take extra care not to kick it over a fence, and it's obviously more a Christmas present than an impulse buy."This last concession is, perhaps, another kind of professional opinion: Rafferty also works three days a weekas a business analyst for Deutsche Bank. "My manager is very lenient," she explains, "I can leave early for away matches."The Smart Ball may not be a panacea for all technique troubles, but Rafferty is smitten. "A lot of goals are scored from dead-ball situations, but of course there's more to winning games than free kicks. I mean, you have to be able to dive on the floor to get the free kick!" With this, she tees the ball up again and awaits the signal from the iPad. "This time, I'm going for an absolute spinner."
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best newiPhoneand iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple&apos;s App Store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSStar Wars Scene Maker (Free + IAP)This is a real treat for Star Wars fans: an iPad app for dreaming up your own scenes within the movie universe, using 3D models of characters and settings, then cutting in dialogue from the Star Wars films or your own recordings. And then sharing the results. Think of the fan-fiction possibilities... And while it&apos;ll take quite a lot of experimenting to get the most out of it, there&apos;ll be plenty of fans willing to try.iPadParallels Access (Free + IAP)Parallels is already well known to people using remote-access software on other devices – for example to get to their work computer from home. Already available on iPad, it&apos;s now on iPhone too, enabling you to access files and applications on your Windows and Mac computers from your smartphone.iPhone (already on iPad)Slingshot (Free)Only available in the US for now, this is Facebook&apos;s latest standalone app: a Snapchat-style way to quickly share photos and video clips, with the twist that you can&apos;t see what someone has sent to you until you &apos;sling&apos; something back. Useful? Fun? It&apos;s very early days, so hard to tell if it&apos;ll be a hit or a Poke-style flop.iPhoneJuices (£2.99)Author Natalie Savona&apos;s Big Book of Juices has been a popular resource for all things juicy as a book. Now it&apos;s an app too, promising more than 400 recipes for juices and smoothies, with a neat system for fast access to your favourites, and a shopping list feature to ensure you have all the ingredients to hand.iPhone / iPadPath Talk (Free + IAP)Path made its name as a social networking app, but now it has launched a dedicated messaging spin-off. It matches other messaging apps with its mix of one-to-one and group messaging, digital stickers and voice messages. Extra features: messages are deleted from Path&apos;s servers 24 hours after being sent, and the app makes it easy to ping music, maps and your location to friends.iPhoneStreetHub (Free)An interesting shopping app for Londoners, this: it spotlights fashion and home products in independent shops around the capital, with the option to buy them from your iPhone to collect in-store, or have them delivered. More than 200 shops are covered by the app, which means you&apos;ll want to check it regularly for new additions.iPhone / iPadAdobe Photoshop Mix (Free)It&apos;s a busy week for Adobe, with several new iOS apps. This is a photo-editing app for tweaking your shots, but also for cutting out elements and pasting them into other shots – all with controls designed for the touchscreen. If you&apos;re a pro user of Adobe&apos;s Photoshop and Lightroom, it works well with those too.iPadAdobe Sketch (Free + IAP)Second up from Adobe, there&apos;s this sketching app to &quot;capture your ideas&quot; – playing a similar role to popular iPad app Paper in that regard. It ties in to Adobe&apos;s existing Behance service for sharing creative work: you can post to that from within Sketch, and get feedback from people in the app.iPadSicher (Free)More messaging, this time from developer Shape, which made the popular IM+ app among others. This is a &quot;Made in Germany&quot; messaging app promising end-to-end encryption of your messages and sent files, with group chats, and the option to set messages to self-destruct.iPhoneWayne Rooney&apos;s Soccer Training (£2.99 + IAP)With England having crashed out of the World Cup already, there may not be too many takers for Wayne Rooney&apos;s official training app. Still, if you&apos;re looking to polish your footballing skills, it may be worth a look: video tutorials and a training regime for dribbling, passing, finishing and getting on a plane nice and early. Okay, not that last one.iPhonePlunderNauts for iPhone and iPad.GAMESPlunderNauts (Free + IAP)Pirates in space is a theme that&apos;s been tapped by numerous games and TV shows in the past, with PlunderNauts an impressive update of the idea. Your job is to loot galactic booty (so to speak) in your spaceship, crafting weapons and upgrades to keep your fleet in shape, and plotting your space-battle strategy.iPhone / iPadGodfire (£4.99 + IAP)Godfire is a visually-spiffing action adventure inspired by console series God of War: expect plenty of monsters, boss battles and mythical storytelling. The animation and scenery looks impressive, although you may need a bit of practice to get used to the controls.iPhone / iPadStick Soccer (Free + IAP)This is the work of Stick Sports, following its previous Stick Cricket and Stick Tennis games. Here, you&apos;re flicking a ball to score goals – one of a growing number of &quot;flick-to-kick&quot; mobile games. One neat feature: you choose your country then see your points count towards its total in a global contest.iPhone / iPadLEGO Marvel Super Heroes: Universe in Peril (£2.99 + IAP)There are plenty of fans of the various Lego games, with Marvel&apos;s Spider-Man, Wolverine, Iron Man and other super heroes the latest to get blocked up for an action-adventure. More than 90 characters, in all, with 45 missions to play through – themed packs provide access to the different heroes.iPhone / iPadPowerpuff Girls: Defenders of Townsville (£2.49)Earlier this month, Cartoon Network announced that it would be developing new episodes of its Powerpuff Girls cartoon – the first since 2005. But in advance of those, here&apos;s an official mobile game for Blossom, Bubbles and Buttercup. It&apos;s a fun action-adventure as you explore its Townsville setting, unlock new abilities and battle big bosses.iPhone / iPadMucho Party (£2.49)Microgames – think Wario Ware – have been a hit on other devices. Mucho Party is trying to do a similar thing for iOS, with 30 games designed for fast multiplayer fun. The idea: you take on a friend across the various games, although there are AI-controlled players when nobody else is with you. Colourful and silly, in the best sense of the word.iPhone / iPadDungeon Gems (Free + IAP)The inspiration for this Gameloft game is clear: lucrative puzzle-RPG game Puzzle &amp; Dragons. As in that game, you&apos;re fighting monsters by matching shapes – runes in this case. There are 220 heroes from which to marshal your party, and – as ever for this genre – in-app purchases to speed your development if desired.iPhone / iPadHero Hunt (Free + IAP)Hero Hunt looks interesting: a &quot;tactical collectible card game&quot; where you collect and upgrade superheroes, then send them into three-on-three battles where you swipe at enemies to cast spells and launch attacks. There&apos;s a solo quest mode plus the option to battle other players and form clans.iPhone / iPadTransformers: Age of Extinction (Free + IAP)Another big movie brand gets a mobile game, this time from Japanese publisher Mobage. It&apos;s a &quot;3D combat runner&quot; starring the Autobots and Decepticons, as you switch between robot and vehicle while powering through the levels, unlocking new Transformers as you go.iPhone / iPadColourColor (Free + IAP)Finally, something really intriguing: a colour-matching social game for iPhone. You play by taking a photo of something nearby, then challenging a friend to find something near them with as close a colour match as possible. It has the potential to be a Draw Something-style success, if enough people pick it up.iPhoneThose are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
Zero-character messaging app Yo has apologised for getting hacked – and has hired one of the hackers to improve its service.The app, which does nothing more than let users send each other &quot;Yo&apos;s&quot; [sic], messages containing nothing but the word &quot;Yo&quot;, confirmed it wasthe victim of a hack on Friday morning. The attackers,three students from Georgia Tech university, could push messages to users&apos; phones, as well as read personal data from the company&apos;s user database.&quot;Yo started as a weekend project and exploded a little too soon,&quot; Or Arbel, Yo&apos;s developer and founder, said. &quot;We were just finishing up rewriting the infrastructure in a proper and secure way, as suitable for production grade apps, when it suddenly blew up and went viral.&quot;But now Arbel argues that being hacked has benefits.&quot;We were lucky enough to get hacked at an early stage and the issue has been fixed,&quot;he said on Saturday. &quot;We are also lucky because this hack and security breach is really highlighting what Yo is, and what we are all about.&quot;Yo&apos;s minimalist model means little user data was at risk, Arbel argues: &quot;The object of the app is to be simple. When you join it doesn’t ask you for your email, full name, Facebook account, or any other piece of personal information. The only identity within the Yo app is your username. We don’t want or need any other personal information. We want you to be able to give out your Yo username to anyone or any service without being afraid of suddenly getting a spammy email or a text message.&quot;As a result, the only piece of personal information leaked by the hackers was the phone numbers of users who opted in to the &quot;Find Friends&quot; feature. Those numbers, and the Yo usernames they were associated with, werebriefly made public at the &quot;Yo-Hack&quot; website.The hack was made possible due to the fact that &quot;our database had an open access from the app itself, a fact that allowed any malicious party to read the user information,&quot; Arbel explained.But once the issue was fixed, the company got back in touch with the hackers, and enlisted one of them to work with the company, &quot;improving Yo experience in other aspects as well&quot;.•New chat app Yo is glorious, simple, and stupid
"Remember your first colour bomb?" saysthe voice on the ad. A fairly badly drawn stick-puppet girl and gorilla throw each other a chocolate sweetie covered in hundreds and thousands. The sweetie explodes in lightning bolts. Suddenly, many sweets appear, lined up in rows and columns. The lightning bolts hit them. "Tasty," says the voiceover. Whole lines of sweets vanish in zooming animation.If this sounds like purest nonsense, you're not wrong. Although the ad ends with the encouragement to "downloadCandy Crush Saganow, for free", unless you're one of the estimated 500 million users of the developer King's game, none of that will have made any sense. It's not an ad designed to get you to download the game, not really.Instead, it's designed to remind existing players of the thrill of success, to get them picking up their phone or logging on to Facebook for "just five minutes". Because the game is, as the ad says, free to download – it's only when you're playing, longing for an elusive "colour bomb", that you might be willing to pay King the few pence it'd take to get one.This is a newish model for gaming, and one that is rapidly becoming the predominant way of doing game business on smartphones. It's called "freemium" – meaning that you get the game for free, but you have to pay to unlock certain features. Maybe you can only see some parts of the game if you pay. Maybe you can pay to speed up the replenishment of "lives". Maybe, as withCandy Crush, the game boards are calibrated to be almost-but-not-quite impossible to solve in the number of moves you get for free … but you can pay for extra moves when you've reached frustrated breaking point.So what's going on here? What is the siren call of the colour bomb that would be worth King purchasing advertising space to entice players back to their phones? Why might these nonsense images actually work and persuade people to part with real cash?Pondering these questions, I'm reminded of the philosopher Daniel Dennett's thinking on "supernormal stimuli". The term was coined by Nobel prizewinner Niko Tinbergen in his study of herring gull behaviour. Seeing that gull chicks pecked at the yellow-orange dot on their parent's beak to make the parent regurgitate food for them, Tinbergen presented the chicks with even bigger yellow-orange dots. He found that, as Dennett and Hurley say in their bookInside Jokes: "The chicks would peck even more vigorously at exaggerated orange spots, brighter and larger than any in nature."Dennettsuggested that the same basic principle applies to many areas of human life. "Our sweet tooth," he says, "is an evolved and instinctual preference for high-energy food. It wasn't designed for chocolate cake. Chocolate cake is a supernormal stimulus." We'll peck at the cake – as it were – in preference over the original stimulus, sweet fruits and berries. InBreaking the Spell, Dennett quotes Pascal Boyer, who suggests that music is a supernormal stimulus which mimics and heightens the effects of speech, and that we make symmetrical patterns with textiles, buildings, gadgets to deliberately "overstimulate [our] visual cortex".In other words, we distil the part of an experience that gives us the "buzz". And then we make it happen again, and again, and again.Maybe it's just all the talk of sugar and of coloured dots and of repetitive patterns of behaviour, but this seems very reminiscent ofCandy Crush Saga. With 500 million users, that game is stimulating something in the human mind. I'm wary of evolutionary psychology – a field that too often seems to be simplified in the media down to "women like pink and men like teenage girls because of science" – but, with caveats, it's interesting if not particularly scientific to speculate about what supernormal stimulus buttonsCandy Crush Sagamight be pressing.One drive it fulfils: the desire to feel that one has succeeded. That a task has been accomplished. The game can drip-feed players that feeling without ever letting you get to the stage of "and now I can stop". The game obviously fulfils the "bright colours, symmetrical shapes and simple sounds" elements of the supernormal stimulus theory. It might also fulfil our desire for order and tidiness – to "tidy up" all those pesky sweets. And perhaps the finding and matching of objects mimics tasks our brains are good at, but don't get to do very much any more, like searching for ripe fruit in tangled thickets, or picking stones out of dried lentils.Whatever the answer, the nuanced position on supernormal stimuli isn't "ban them all" but "let's think carefully about how we want to live with them". Just because something is a supernormal stimulus doesn't mean it's bad for us – think music or visual arts. And sugar and alcohol are clearly supernormal stimuli, so we're continuing to debate and adjust our rules and societal norms about who gets unfettered access to them, what good limits are, and how often these things should appear in a "good life".Adrian Hon, game creator and futurologist, recently suggested that we should introduce "nutrition facts" for freemium games, fact boxes that will let you know how much you're likely to spend on the game, andhow to set limits on your playing time.We need to recognise that we've created something magnificently compelling and pleasurable in video games – and that's a wonderful thing. And it's that magnificent compulsion that means we need to have a sane conversation about how to set limits for ourselves on another wonderful pleasure that has no natural limits.
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best newAndroidapps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPSParallels Access (Free + subscription)Parallels is already well known to people using remote-access software on other devices – for example to get to their work computer from home. Now there&apos;s an official Parallels Access app for Android devices, accessing files and applications on Windows and Mac computers. An annual subscription covers up to five devices.Slingshot (Free)Only available in the US for now, this is Facebook&apos;s latest standalone app: a Snapchat-style way to quickly share photos and video clips, with the twist that you can&apos;t see what someone has sent to you until you &apos;sling&apos; something back. Useful? Fun? It&apos;s very early days, so hard to tell if it&apos;ll be a hit or a Poke-style flop.Nike+ FuelBand (Free)Nike has been much more focused on iOS than Android for its mobile fitness activities, but now it has finally launched an Android app for its FuelBand tracking device. As long as you own a compatible device (the last three Samsung Galaxy smartphones, Google&apos;s Nexus 5, an HTC One or Moto X) you can pair the app with your FuelBand to see stats, pretty graphs and friend leaderboards.AutomateIt Pro (£1.43)The latest useful Android utility here, from developer SmarterApps. It automates some common tasks on your device, from keeping it quiet at night to changing the volume depending on whether you&apos;ve got a headset plugged in or not. But you can also dig deeper, using its system of triggers and actions to set your own &quot;rules&quot;.Path Talk (Free + IAP)Path made its name as a social networking app, but now it has launched a dedicated messaging spin-off that&apos;s hoping you&apos;ll &quot;replace SMS and Facebook&quot; with it. Lofty aims: it matches other messaging apps with its mix of one-to-one and group messaging, digital stickers and voice messages. Extra features: messages are deleted from Path&apos;s servers 24 hours after being sent, and the app makes it easy to ping music, maps and your location to friends.Sicher (Free + IAP)And more messaging, this time from developer Shape, which made the popular IM+ app among others. This is a &quot;Made in Germany&quot; messaging app promising end-to-end encryption of your messages and sent files, with group chats, and the option to set messages to self-destruct.Sleep Cycle Alarm Clock (£1.29)If you regularly wake up like a bear with a sore head, Sleep Cycle Alarm Clock may be the answer. The app runs in the background on your Android device while you sleep, using its sensors to gauge when you&apos;re at different points in your sleep cycle. Then, it wakes you up in a 30-minute window before your desired alarm time: so you&apos;re bright as a button, not grumpy. In theory...Oyster – Read Unlimited Books (Free + subscription)Oyster is another app that isn&apos;t available in the UK yet, but the US startup is worth keeping tabs on. It&apos;s one of a clutch of &apos;Spotify for books&apos; (sometimes Netflix is the comparison used) – you pay a monthly subscription for unlimited access to a catalogue of more than 500,000 e-books. Being UK-based, I haven&apos;t been able to try it yet, but judging by early reviews, it&apos;s pretty slick.In The Night Garden (£1.99)Igglepiggle, Upsy Daisy, the Tombliboos and Makka Pakka have made their way to Android in their own app, released by P2 Entertainment – which handles similar duties for Peppa Pig. Here, that means five simple, colourful mini-games for pre-schoolers featuring their favourite characters from the CBeebies show.SalientEye Home Security Alarm (Free + IAP)Apparently big in Brazil, this home-security app is now hoping to find fans in the UK too. The idea: you install it on a spare Android smartphone, turning it into a wireless home-security camera, detecting motion and then able to shoot photos and videos, send you SMS and email alerts, or sound an alarm. Security, yes, but also cracking for spying on what your cat and/or dog really get up to while you&apos;re out.Boom Beach for Android.GAMESBoom Beach (Free + IAP)Boom Beach is the third game from Supercell, the developer that&apos;s enjoyed huge success with Clash of Clans and Hay Day. Like those, this is a freemium game: you have to build an island base and invade those of other players, with a military theme and plenty of potential for strategic planning.Lumosity (Free + IAP)Lumosity is a popular brain-training game – well, a suite of games really – which claims 60m players already on the web and iOS. Now it&apos;s on Android too: an accessible collection of mini-games designed to stretch your grey cells, and track your progress over time.Warhammer 40,000: Carnage (£4.99 + IAP)Longtime fans of Games Workshop&apos;s tabletop game will be excited about this Warhammer 40,000 mobile game, but it&apos;s good enough to appeal to newcomers as well. It sees you playing a space marine, blasting... well, blasting the bejaysus out of everything around you, while upgrading your kit.Stick Soccer (Free + IAP)Something more casual here, just about in time to capitalise on World Cup fever. It&apos;s the work of Stick Sports, following its previous Stick Cricket and Stick Tennis games. Here, you&apos;re flicking a ball to score goals – one of a growing number of &quot;flick-to-kick&quot; mobile games. One neat feature: you choose your country then see your points count towards its total in a global contest.Castle of Illusion (£5.88)This is the work of Disney: a 2014 update of Sega Mega Drive game Castle of Illusion, which I lost many hours to back in the day. You play Mickey Mouse, off on an adventure to rescue Minnie. It&apos;s one of those games that will give you a flood of nostalgia: a faithful port, with controls tweaked for touchscreens.Topia World Builder (£1.18)When it came out for iOS in 2012, this game got a lot of attention due to the involvement of Glenn Corpes – who helped create legendary god-game Populous. Now it&apos;s on Android, and the gameplay still justifies the interest. You&apos;re still playing god: shaping a planet and then watching animals breed, fight and die.Powerpuff Girls: Defenders (£2.38)Earlier this month, Cartoon Network announced that it would bedeveloping new episodes of its Powerpuff Girls cartoon– the first since 2005. But in advance of those, here&apos;s an official mobile game for Blossom, Bubbles and Buttercup. It&apos;s a fun action-adventure as you explore its Townsville setting, unlock new abilities and battle big bosses.Dungeon Gems (Free + IAP)Mention of &quot;dragons, fantasy and puzzle action&quot; in the Google Play listing makes the inspirations of this Gameloft game clear: lucrative title Puzzle &amp; Dragons. As in that game, you&apos;re fighting monsters by matching shapes – runes in this case. There are 220 heroes from which to marshal your party, and – as ever for this genre – in-app purchases to speed your development if desired.Qvadriga (£7.13)Turn-based chariot racing? It may not be one of the more popular game genres, but in Qvadriga it looks very nicely done indeed. Your job is to run a chariot-racing team in ancient Roman times, maintaining and upgrading your charioteers and horses, while plotting various crafty tactics to unseat (literally, obviously) your opponents.Simon the Sorcerer 2 (£2.69)Finally, a bit more nostalgia: a classic adventure game from days gone by, ported to Android by developer MojoTouch. It follows the port of the first Simon the Sorcerer game, with both focusing on a pre-Potter boy wizard. The humour hasn&apos;t dated badly, and the game has been well-redesigned to work on touchscreens.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on Android this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
There can't be many events where Neelie Kroes, vice-president of the European commission, rubs shoulders with Duran Duran's Simon Le Bon, or Google bon vivant Eric Schmidt with the reliably delightful Grayson Perry. For the one percenters who get an invitation toFounders Forum, the event is like the Davos of the tech industry. For an observer, the atmosphere combines the congratulatory backslapping of intense power network with an undercurrent of feisty rivalry. It's fascinating to watch.Secrets are told, processes explained, deals done late at night over very expensive drinks. There are modest panel discussions (not everyone goes; the best discussions are alwaysin the corridors, near the bar or clustered under an accommodating willow tree in the grounds), but even these sessions open the kimono a little wider than usual.There have been few recent tech acquisitions more intriguing than that of DeepMind, theBritish artificial intelligence firm bought by Googlefor about £400m in January. Much of the astonishment was because so few people in the industry had even heard of DeepMind, although founderDemis Hassabis had a reputation for brilliance.Post-deal, Google is still letting Hassabis wander around in the real world and taking his phenomenal brain with him – despite the evident risks of him leaking intrigue, insights and intel about the future of machine learning that Google might prefer to keep to itself."Why don't we have robots that can tidy the house or clean up after the kids?" asked Hassabis. "It's not because we're not mechanically capable – there are robots that could do that. But the problem is that every house, every kitchen, is different. You couldn't pre-program individual machines, so it has to learn in the environment it finds itself in."Hassabis grasped the kimono: discussions with Google meandered for two years, he told the audience of suits (Grayson and Simon being sadly absent at this point), but were triggered by a casual chat between casual billionaires on a casual private jet ride somewhere between wherever billionaires like to fly each other. One of DeepMind's investors isTesla founder Elon Musk, a remarkable overachiever even by Silicon Valley standards, who has variously created luxury, high-performance electric cars, designed a high-speed, pressurised transport system and founded a space travel company. Despite $65m of investment from him in their first two years, DeepMind stayed secretive."We're from the UK, so we didn't realise who was connected in the Valley, or that Elon and Larry [Google co-founder Larry Page] were best buddies. We got a call from Luke Nosek on Elon's private jet at 4am UK time, who said that Larry had started asking about artificial intelligence and Elon said 'You should check out this company in London'. Then Luke said 'Larry's taking notes!' I was thinking that someone with a $300bn-$400bn company doesn't take notes unless it's going to get actioned."What followed was a year of discussions with Google that became more protracted as more lawyers and the corporate development department got involved.At one point, he said, there were 20 lawyers on one conference call. "The complexity of getting all those ducks in a row is at the limits of what is humanly possible, plus all the 'poker playing' with corporate development – and meanwhile running your business."Help speeding up the process came in the unlikely form of another tech giant f ounder, who got wind of what DeepMind was doing. It wasn't the bidding war that DeepMind (and its 75 staff) were interested in, but negotiating to get the best terms that would allow DeepMind to control its own mission. Its research was all based on an approach in artificial intelligence that Google didn't have. "Most people start with language, but we start with sensory experience," said Hassabis. "We collected the world's best team. And Larry told us he'd always thought of Google as an artificial intelligence company."That insight itself is enough to inspire the recalibration of the hundreds of millions of businesses and billions of consumers who have become dependent on Google. If you thought Google was an advertiser, or a search engine, or a video platform, or a news service, or a shopping tool, you're right. But the Google of the future tailors all its services using technology that learns about its users. Today, that customisation looks like theGoogle Now app, but the future has a habit of turning up pretty quickly in this part of the world.Wannabe entrepreneurs looking for tips from Hassabis would be hard pressed; be a former prodigy computing genius, get Elon Musk as an investor and engineer a casual mention to an artificial intelligence-hunting Google founder next time they hang out. All in a day's work for the tech elite, in whose hands our futures rest.• This article was amended on 2 July 2014 to remove some quotes. Our author had not been told that a particular session was under Chatham House rules.
The frustration of poor mobile phone coverage is familiar to visitors to Britain's rural areas – but it can be a little more serious when you are a prime minister and need to keep on top of world affairs.David Cameron has renewed his pledge to help rural communities in broadband "not-spots", having admitted that he has had to cut short his own coastal holidays owing to poor mobile phone signal coverage.The prime minister said he had to return to London from Cornwall – a long-standing domestic holiday destination for the Camerons – in 2011 and 2013, as a lack of signal hampered his ability to keep updated on the fall of the Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi and the Syrian conflict respectively.In aninterviewon Sunday with the Western Morning News,  Cameron said: "This is a really big issue for people all over the country – the 'not-spots'. It's not good enough to say here's the mobile coverage for the whole country. You have got to recognise a lot of people are making important calls while they are on the move. We do need to improve the coverage of the mobile phone signal."Cameron said poor technology "affects prime ministers making important calls wherever they are, but it affects everybody".He told the newspaper: "For rural communities, not being connected to super-fast broadband is a bit like not being connected to the road network: it's that bad. So much work is being done online that it really is a must-have. We've got to crack this."Recalling the technological problems in Cornwall, Cameron, whose daughter Florence wasborn in the Duchy in 2010, said: "As I go down a hill into Polzeath [in north Cornwall] I know exactly which bit of the road I lose my signal. So it is a problem. I know where to go to get a signal, but it can be very frustrating."However, Cameron went on to say that he wasnever happier than when he was in Cornwall."I love the seaside, I love the landscape, I like the people. There are lots of places that mean a lot to me. I've been going to north Cornwall man and boy. I went as a child. I love surfing at Polzeath. I love walking the coastal path. I love the pubs. I like the beer. There's nothing about it I don't like."Ministers are discussing plans to negotiate with mobile phone operators to ask them to help increase coverage by sharing phone masts, which would allow for the introduction of national roaming in the UK. This would see phones switch from one operator to another when service is not available through the first provider, which is what happens when people travel abroad.The move would help to solve the problem of partial "not-spots", areas where only some of the main networks are available, and would be good news for hundreds of thousands of people but mobile phone companies could resist the idea of sharing masts with rivals.The government says it is investing up to £150m to improve mobile coverage in areas where there is currently no coverage from any of the network operators.
When theElevation Dock, an accessory for the iPhone 4 hewn from a single chunk of solid aluminium, finished its Kickstarter campaign in February 2012, it became the first million-dollar project to raise funds through the site.Two years later, Oculus, formed fromanother Kickstarter campaignto produce a virtual-reality headset,sold itself to Facebook for $2bn, becoming the first billion-dollar company started through crowdfunding.Oculus's sale price was more than double the total of every dollar pledged to any previous successful Kickstarter project. It solidified the reputation of crowdfunding in general, and Kickstarter in particular, as a viable alternative to traditional routes to starting a company. But that wasn't the reputation that Kickstarter intended to have at the start.It began in 2009 with the mission "to help bring creative projects to life". The first of the crowdfunding sites, it allows creators to raise money for a project. Backers decide how much they want to pledge, usually in exchange for a reward of some sort, and if the creator raises the full amount they asked for, Kickstarter will hand them the cash and they can get to work making something new.Its first big success was letting New York-based singer-songwriter Allison Weiss raise money to record a new EP. Shehit her goal of $2,000 in eight hoursand went on to raise almost four times that. Until last year, the site was explicit in stating that users could not use it to start a business. Even now, although that rule has been relaxed, Kickstarter still emphasises that it is "a funding platform for creative projects".How well can one site serve such different audiences? Is Kickstarter's uneasy position at the crossroads between art and commerce somewhere it can stay forever, or will the company have to make up its mind? Where does the heart of Kickstarter lie?The Kano computer kit, funded by Kickstarter last year, is so simple that Boris Johnson assembled one in less than three minutesThe company's offices, in a former pencil factory in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, make the case that it is first and foremost focused on artistic endeavours. After moving into the premises in the early 2014 (a consequence of growth that left them so cramped in their Lower East Side offices in New York that the final few hires didn't have desks), the first thing they did was hold a block party for the neighbourhood, hosting tens of thousands of locals and creatives.One attraction of the party was the first show of their new art gallery. Open to the public, it features work from visual artists who have found support on Kickstarter over the years, including performance artists from the Marina Abramovic Institute, new media artist Jeremy Bailey and expressionist painter Marshall Arisman.As well as the gallery, the building has a cinema, which holds premieres of films backed on the site, and a library with a mixture of books and board games, some also born out of Kickstarter and others with more pedigree. (Judging by conversations with staff, the library is most adored for hosting the company's weekly dungeons and dragons night.)Then there's the weekly email to users, a vastly different beast from the typical corporate mailshot. Nothing but plain text and links, it features a smattering of links from across the web as well as personal selections by various staff of active Kickstarter projects. In this week's email, an article about rapper 50 Cent fromGQis highlighted alongside one employee's selection of an anthology of protest comics, and CEO and co-founder Yancey Strickler's choice, an early music festival in New York."The entire idea was, 'Let's do something only because we think it's cool and interesting, and for no other reason'," Strickler explains when we sit down on the office's verdant roof terrace to talk. In a plaid shirt, with sunglasses to keep out the May sunshine, he fits in with the hipster surroundings of north west Brooklyn as well as the rest of his employees. "There are no ulterior motives other than genuinely sharing things we enjoy. I was really proud of that. I feel like there's not a lot of that in the world."A few minutes with Strickler and it's clear that it's being a part of this artistic scene that motivates him. Kickstarter isn't his first job; the 35-year-old was brought in by his co-founders, Perry Chen and Charles Adler, from eMusic, the digital music store where he had risen to become editor-in-chief. Before then, he was the managing editor atFlavorPill, a site cataloguing the best cultural events in New York.Get him on to those topics, and he will talk without reservation (or pause). But when conversation shifts to the business of Kickstarter, he grows more measured. He describes himself as the company's "thinker", and earns that title. For all that people outside Kickstarter have been pondering the company's future, the impression given by Strickler is of someone well aware that his passion depends on being able to see the problems down the road.As the company grows and the original goal gets more and more distant from the new hires who come in, Strickler hopes that quirks such as the email will gel the team. "We're not interested in being a monolithic entity on the internet. We're representing the interests of, hopefully, a large section of humanity."From the start it was just: it's way too hard for people to make things they want to make because it's just not going to make someone money. And we were feeling frustrated by that, thinking aboutArrested Development, thinking about David Lynch, thinking about, I don't know. All those things were decisions about culture that were made from the perspective of money, and it just feels so frustrating. 'Oh my God, why don't people get it? Why don't people just get it? This is just good. This should exist because it's good.' Like, why does this other stuff matter?"The overarching goal is to provide a way for people to make the things they want to make. I think that's been consistent, though a lot of ways that you relate to it have evolved. When we first launched the thing, we were just hoping anyone would see it."Users soon caught on to the broad concept of Kickstarter, even before the company had fully sorted out what it wanted to be. Weiss's campaign, the first significant success on the site, closed just five months after it opened to the public. At the time, Kickstarter accepted projects in its core creative fields of film, music, and art, but also had some less obvious options: "There was 'adventure' as a category. We removed it in our first year, it's one that I look back on and feel fondly towards."Comedy and journalism were removed around the same time, though they were reintroduced in a rules update on 11&nbsp;June:"It was very broad. I think most of what we have now was reflected back then in some way."One thing not present at the start was a hardware category, the source of many of Kickstarter's biggest successes, as well as some of its more notable failures.The Glif was the first hardware project on the site. A tripod stand for the iPhone 4 launched in 2010 and "really just went nuts. It's what brought hardware on to Kickstarter and really changed the hardware industry for good … I don't think we could have predicted that hardware would be a primary use case for Kickstarter when we started, because people weren't making hardware at this scale before. [You had to] operate a scale of, like, a million units, so this just flat out did not exist."Kickstarter is not the only reason for that gradual shift – the opening up of Chinese manufacturing, the growth of 3D printing and rapid-prototyping, and the plummeting cost of the electronics needed to make complex consumer goods all had a role to play – but in creating a retail pipeline for sales of small quantities of goods, it helped a great deal. Hardware entrepreneurs say the most useful aspect of the site today isn't the fundraising, but proof that a market for your product exists.It's worth saying at this point that other crowdsourcing sites are available. The biggest, and best-known, alternative isIndieGoGo, which has carved a niche in the spaces that Kickstarter refuses to operate. That has meant everything from accepting British projects, back when Kickstarter was US-only, to allowing charity fundraising and the like. It's perhaps best known for its "flexible funding" model, which lets creators keep the money they raise for a project even if they don't hit their target.Some of the gaps in Kickstarter's repertoire, like the lack of a hardware category, were oversights, but other restraints were more an attempt to guide the growth of the site itself. "In the first year I was very concerned that the site would be overrun with music projects or something, and that you'd get some MySpace effect, where it's like, 'oh, that's the site where people go to do music stuff'. We always wanted to be something much broader," says Strickler. While banning music was out of the question, that was the rationale behind the site's longstanding ban on using Kickstarter to start websites. "We didn't want to be a site where a bunch of startups are raising their money. This is something broader than that."Kickstarter's ban on using the site to start a company started with the same intention. But though it stood for four years, it eventually ran into problems. "Trying to define a business is a very challenging thing. Most people, when they start making a film, start an LLC [limited liability company]. Does creating an LLC constitute starting a business? What does that really mean? I think that was one of those rules that was written more broadly than was intended. We were trying say 'focus on actually just, like, making a thing'."Oculus's thing was the Rift headset. It uses an array of movement sensors and a screen strapped to the user's face to serve up immersive virtual worlds at a fraction of the cost of older virtual reality systems. More than 5,500 backers on the site pledged $300 to receive an early developer kit, and some pledged up to $5,000 for extra rewards on top. A further 1,000 gave smaller sums, $10 and up, for no reward beyond being kept up to date about progress, to "help us take gaming to the next level". In total, Oculus raised almost $2.5m from 9,522 backers, and in March 2013 (four months later than promised) shipped out those prototype versions to backers.The Oculus Rift headset raised $2.4m on Kickstarter in 2012 Photograph: Michael Bowles/REXIt fulfilled its promise. So why was there so much anger when, a year later, it sold to Facebook? "This is a huge betrayal," wrote one backer on the Kickstarter page. "I want my donation back," said another. "I'm kind of horrified." "I regret backing this." "Sellout Dicks."Some of the anger was over who, exactly, had bought Oculus. For the hacker community that Oculus had courted, Facebook is the company they love to hate. But that's not the whole story. "They were sold an idea," says Austin Walker, over the phone from Toronto. Walker is a PhD candidate at the University of Western Ontario, where he looks at the ways technology can be mishandled or abused to become exploitative."That this is a cool independent thing, like when they used to make computers in their garages, this is a tiny exciting thing. Then a lot of the games that came out felt like that! They were experimental, games where you would walk around a house and look at stuff. So it had an authentic, underground feeling." But even before the sale, Walker wonders if people were fooling themselves slightly: "No one asked the end goal. That product was never going to be a little indie thing. The goal from the jump was: we have something cool that we're going to bring to as many people as possible." If anything, Walker seems surprised that it took people so long to realise that Oculus was going mainstream. "Especially after they got some VC backing … it was clear what the end game was."That aspect of the Oculus buyout is something Walker sees frequently on the site. "A lot of campaigns walk the line between art and commerce. They deploy the rhetoric of an art project to ensure an emotional buy-in that will then lead to a financial buy-in. And that emotional buy-in is part of the reason why people get upset.""People backed Oculus to say: I want to be part of this thing. The backlash comes because they aren't part of it, and can never be."American Psycho, the hit London musical, appealed through Kickstarter for extra funding in 2013 Photograph: Tristram KentonThe end game need not necessarily have been in conflict with the backers' indie roots, however. But it was always going to expose the contradiction at Kickstarter's heart: that it brings together a community to support the creation of things, but then accrues the benefits to an individual."I don't think people have the words for it," Walker says. "My sense from talking to people after it happened is that they were like, 'here we go again'.Even if I make $80k, and want to help make cool things, I'm not allowed to support them in the same way someone who makes $800k can. I'm allowed to consume; they're allowed to invest."Since the creation of Kickstarter sparked the crowdfunding boom, some have taken that thought to its logical conclusion. In the US, the 2012 Jumpstart Our Business Startups (Jobs) Act lifted restrictions on micro-investment, allowing companies not listed on the stock market to still take investment in a slightly less structured way than previously. But in the UK, that was already legal, andSeedrs, a micro-investment firm launched in July 2012, was one of the first. More than 50 firms have raised capital on the market, offering full-blown equity rather than "rewards" to backers."When rewards are the only game in town, then funders don't have much of a choice," says the firm's CEO and founder, Jeff Lynn, in an email. "If they like a company and want it to succeed, they can only do so by providing funds in exchange for rewards. This is the case in the United States, where equity crowdfunding isn't yet legal, and it was also the case in Europe very recently."It's easy to see why a backer might prefer to take equity in a company rather than settle for a reward: Lynn estimates that an Oculus Rift backer, who had been awarded equity in the company instead of getting a free headset, would have seen their $300 stake rise to around $20,000.But he warns that that sum "has to be viewed in light of the risks taken. Someone who funded $300 only bore the risk that Oculus would not be able to make and deliver the headset. An investor bears the risk of the company's overall success and ability to exit, which is significantly higher." After all, if you back Oculus on Kickstarter, and the company delivers your headset then goes bust, you still have your headset; if you back a company on Seedrs, it's all or nothing.Lynn argues that a start-up which raises money through Kickstarter is engaging in "a pure commercial transaction. All the funder really cares about is getting his/her product, and if anything he/she may be disappointed if you go on to be too successful [as in the case of Oculus]." But the experience of companies started on Kickstarter suggests that isn't always the case.Pebble was one of the early Kickstarter success stories, raising $10m on the site two years ago to build one of the first commercially available smartwatches. The firm's founder, Eric Migicovsky, cites the support of backers as crucial to building the community Pebble thrives on."There's an amazing global community that's grown around Pebble, which includes many of the people who participated in our Kickstarter campaign," he told theObserverby email.  "The overwhelming support we got from the Kickstarter community was incredible. We were completely blown away and definitely wouldn't be here today without them."Migicovsky also denies one of the more worrying claims levelled against businesses started on Kickstarter: that they are just doing it to get a better deal than they would have got through traditional funding: "We chose to raise money with Kickstarter because the more traditional venture funding sources were not receptive to our initial concept."Pebble had begun as a project at the influentialYCombinatorstartup incubator, but graduating beyond that was difficult: "In early 2012, we went to back VCs and angels, but again, the feedback we got was that 'hardware is difficult', so we weren't able to raise any additional capital. A few months later in April, at the recommendation of a few friends and fellow entrepreneurs, we launched our Kickstarter campaign." But for Walker, the fact that backers are helping bring things into the world that otherwise wouldn't exist isn't enough. "The consumption you do on Kickstarter is really great! It feels like supporting a local business or band, and it's rewarding to give your money to something that feels like a long shot."I do it too. When I back an independent cyberpunk project, I'm thinking 'I want to be a patron of this thing'. But I'm not. I'm just a customer. And not even a customer, really, because they don't offer retail protections either. People use it like a pre-order platform, but if their goods never get shipped, they don't get their money back."The Ostrich Pillow, "a micro-environment in which to take a comfortable power nap", raised nearly $200,000If there's a general theme in the criticism of Kickstarter, it's that by falling between categories, it manages to avoid the responsibilities of either. People use it to buy things, but (as the firm emphatically proclaims) "Kickstarter is not a store" – so it doesn't have to offer the same protections. People use it to be a part of the creation of new companies – but they aren't investors, so they don't get offered a fair return. People use it to support struggling creator – but the artists themselves need to offer tangible rewards, sometimes bankrupting themselves in the process, the victims of their own success.When I put that suggestion to Strickler, though, he disagrees. It's not that Kickstarter hovers in the middle of three categories: for him, it's an entirely new class of human exchange. "Maybe 99.99% of money that moves," he says, is one of three modes: "There's investment, there's commerce and there's philanthropy." And Kickstarter, though it has similarities, isn't any of them. "It's similar to commerce, in that there's an end-product that is being shared. But, unlike commerce, on Kickstarter you are supporting it before it actually exists. It's similar to investment in that the money is up front. And it's similar to philanthropy in that a lot of the pledges are motivated by a desire to just, like 'this seems cool, I would like it to exist. The world would be better if this happened'."But if we were full commerce, then there's no more prospective projects. There's no more someone trying to create the future. You're Etsy."And so it comes back to responsibility.Etsy, a site which lets small craftspeople sell their goods, takes on some, offering to mediate between buyers and sellers, enforcing strict standards of reliability. What does Kickstarter do instead?"I think the primary responsibility is to be really clear about what this is, and educate people. There are all sorts of choices we've made to underlie that, you know? There's no shopping cart on Kickstarter, because that's too e-commerce."Sometimes we'll talk about a feature, then we'll be like 'right, this is a shopping cart'. This already exists, and it's called a shopping cart! That honestly might make an experience that has a little more friction for backers, but we think will underlie what this system actually is."A few weeks after we met,Kickstarter announced another raft of changes. The firm is almost completely simplifying its rules, maintaining only a short list of banned activities: don't fundraise for charity, offer financial incentives, or involve prohibited items (things such as alcohol or firearms).Instead, the guiding philosophy is being simplified. "Projects must create something to share with others." It's broad enough to happily hold the startup raising money for a cool piece of tech, and the musician trying to fund a new EP. And that breadth, it seems, comes straight from the heart of Kickstarter itself. It wants to help people make things. More than that is up to them.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Amazon Fire Phone &gt;&gt; Jamie RyanPeople misremember the iPhone as some sort of hallelujah moment when it was announced in January 2007. It wasn't. It was panned by a lot of people when it was first announced for various reasons. The 3 aforementioned ones plus it had a poor camera, no MMS, no video recording, no apps and the back looked ugly!Everyones waiting for these giant leaps. These clear cut "whoa I just witnessed the unveiling of the Next Big Thing" don't really happen all that often. Yet the industry still keeps moving forward, it evolves. I see each of these events as baby steps along the way.Why did Amazon make a phone? A conversation with Jeff Bezos &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comQ. It sounds like you've been using the Fire phone as your own phone. What were you using before, and what's it been like to use this?A. Well, Samsung. And the thing I've noticed is when I switch back to another phone, I'm still reaching for the gestures that work so reliably on Fire phone, like autoscroll.For the design team, invention is about stepping back and finding those things in technology that aren't ideal, but you're so inured to them that you don't realize they could probably be improved. Traditionally scrolling is not that good. It's often a two-handed gesture. You're interjecting your finger in front of the screen.Once you get used to autoscrolling, you'll be trying to do it on another device — and that's a good sign.The Passport is a big, blocky phablet and BlackBerry's strangest phone ever &gt;&gt; The VergeFirst, just take a look at its square display, which measures 4.5 inches with a resolution of 1440x1440. Right below that is a QWERTY keyboard that's shorter and stretches wider than most other keyboards we've seen from the company. It's not entirely clear what BlackBerry is shooting for with the Passport; it's more or less a business class take on the phablet — a really, really square phablet. And it's so wide; even wider than Samsung's Galaxy Note 3. The BlackBerry Passport is due sometime this September, so for now all we can do is look and imagine trying to successfully hold it in one hand. Here's a photo of CEO John Chen miraculously pulling off that very feat.They should provide a hinge in the middle and call it a laptop. Job done.Why we're building Track Changes for the web &gt;&gt; Poetica blogThis is the document that inspired us to start Poetica. It contains all the feedback that author Maureen Evans received from her editor about the first draft of a cookbook, Eat Tweet, using Word's Track Changes feature.Maureen's experience of trying to make sense of her editor's feedback was so frustrating that it got us thinking. How we could make something better: more natural, clear and expressive?We realised that Track Changes frustrates many people, not just writers. It's used by everyone from students to corporate lawyers, and what they're trying to achieve is similar: they want quick, thoughtful and clear feedback on work they've done.Basically, "track changes" and collaborative editing on Gmail, Gdrive, Word (Word?) and Wordpress.More proof that Microsoft's Surface Mini almost launched in May &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley:Microsoft made available for download on June 20 a Surface Pro 3 User Guide, meant to assist those buying the third-generation Intel-based Surface Pro 3 tablets, which are for sale starting today in the U.S. and Canada. That guide, as Windows Supersite's Paul Thurrott noted on Twitter, includes several mentions of the Surface Mini.(My guess is the team writing the Surface Pro 3 user guide did some cutting and pasting from the guide meant to accompany the Surface Mini.)From the mentions, it looks like the same pen that comes with the Surface Pro 3 also was going to ship with the Surface Mini. One of the handful of mentions, focused on the top button on the new pen, notes:"Click the top button to open OneNote, even if your Surface is locked. Bluetooth technology links your Surface Pen to your Surface Mini or Surface Pro 3, so when you click the button, your Surface responds instantly."Carolina Milanesi of analysts Kantarresponds: "the market ain't ready for a Surface Mini."Google to reimburse rescue chopper &gt;&gt; Stuff.co.nzGoogle has promised to reimburse a rescue helicopter crew for an unnecessary flight after one of their Wi-Fi balloons falling into the sea sparked an emergency response.Police received a call at 11.25am from a member of public reporting that a plane had crashed into the sea off the Hurunui River mouth, near Cheviot. He mistook the balloon for a plane because a local pilot's aircraft had a parachute attached.Locals took boats out to investigate, while police, Waimakariri-Ashley Lifeboat volunteers, Search and Rescue and the Westpac rescue helicopter responded.The balloon was found floating in the sea. Police notified Google, as the balloon was too large for a local fisherman to pull out, and the sea was "quite rough".Thirty Project Loon balloons were launched into the stratosphere from Tekapo in June last year. The helium-filled, 12-metre-high polyethylene balloons transmit free wi-fi signals. Their purpose is to reach people living in remote areas.Google aims to have 300 to 400 of these balloons in operation. At this failure rate, that would mean a crashlanding almost every month on average.Clayton Christensen responds to New Yorker takedown of 'disruptive innovation' &gt;&gt; BusinessweekChristensen hasn't responded in writing to the essay, but when I reached him by phone Thursday afternoon, it was clear he'd been thinking about it. Consistently described by those who know him as a generous and thoughtful and upbeat person, he is also capable of fury. "Keep asking me questions," he said, "it's helping me."Bunny report: not happy. Do read through to his explanation of why he got it wrong on the iPhone. (He said it would be a flop.)Robots are strong: the sci-fi myth of robotic competence &gt;&gt; Popular ScienceEric Sofge:The myth of robotic competence is based on a hunch. And it's a hunch that, for the most part, has been proven dead wrong by real-life robots.Actual robots are devices of extremely narrow value and capability. They do one or two things with competence, and everything else terribly, or not at all. Auto-assembly bots can paint or spot-weld a vehicle in a fraction of the time that a human crew might require, and with none of the health concerns. That's their knife trick. But ask them to install upholstery, and they would most likely bash the vehicle to pieces.Robot cars, at the moment, have a similarly savant-like range of expertise. As The Atlantic recently covered, Google's driverless vehicles require detailed LIDAR maps—3D models created from lasers sweeping the contours of a given roadway—to function. Autonomous cars have to do impressive things, like detecting the proximity of surrounding cars, and determining right of way at intersections. But they are algorithmically locked onto their laser roads. They stay the proscribed course, following a trail of sensor-generated breadcrumbs. Compared to what humans have to contend with, these robots are the most sheltered sort of permanent student drivers. No one is quizzing them by sending pedestrians or drunk drivers darting into their path, or diverting them through un-mapped, snow-covered country lanes. Their ability to avoid fatal collisions remains untested.…I've talked to many roboticists and artificial intelligence researchers who were inspired by hyper-competent bogeymen, from 2001's HAL 9000 to the Terminator's T-800. The dream of robotic power is intoxicating. That the systems these scientists create are usually pale shadows of human competence is a mere fact of roboticsToday's must-read. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Cable TV boxes become 2nd biggest energy users in many homes - Los Angeles TimesThe seemingly innocuous appliances — all 224m of them across the nation — together consume as much electricity as produced by four giant nuclear reactors, running around the clock. They have become the biggest single energy user in many homes, apart from air conditioning.Cheryl Williamsen, a Los Alamitos architect, has three of the boxes leased from her cable provider in her home, but she had no idea how much power they consumed until recently, when she saw a rating on the back for as much as 500 watts — about the same as a washing machine.A set-top cable box with a digital recorder can consume as much as 35 watts of power, costing about $8 a month for a typical Southern California consumer. The devices use nearly as much power turned off as they do when they are turned on.35W for 24hr for 30 days = 25.2kWh - so she pays 31.7c/kWH? That compares with over 20 pence/kWh in the UK as a typical consumer price.Yo app hacked by college students &gt;&gt; TechCrunchA Georgia Tech student, together with two of his roommates, claims to have hacked Yo, the Poke-like app which has set some of Silicon Valley alight (though not others) in the last 48 hours. [See update below: Yo has confirmed it has been hacked].The student emailed TechCrunch detailing what he alleges is the results of the hack: "We can get any Yo user's phone number (I actually texted the founder, and he called me back). We can spoof Yo's from any users, and we can spam any user with as many Yo. We could also send any Yo user a push notification with any text we want (though we decided not to do that)."In no time at all, we'll be at the next stage of this cycle, where hacking will be blamed by an MP for an inappopriate Yo to someone else. Penultimate stage: bought by Facebook or Google for $---bn. Final stage: incorporated into some other app and never heard of again.The 747 is going extinct &gt;&gt; QuartzDavid Yanofksy:no amount of nostalgia will change the plane's operating cost on an airline's balance sheet, or its sustainability report. The 747 is the least efficient wide-body plane flying, according to data reported by US operators—it burns more fuel per hour and per seat mile than any other wide-body commercial airliner. Filling these gigantic planes has been a bugbear for some airlines, even on major routes. And as travelers seek more flight-time options, airlines are opting for multiple departures per day with smaller planes.Introduced in 1969, so it has lasted well.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
