The industrial revolution, now well over 200 years old, has yet to reach the very poorest parts of the world. However, the digital revolution is reaching some areas the industrial revolution has passed by – as long as they have wireless connectivity – thereby giving them a chance to leapfrog into the modern era. Meanwhile, digitisation is increasingly turning older industries upside down and others ask: "Who will be next?" There is no easy answer, but eventually everything from the way work is organised to the structure of health and education will be dramatically changed. However, the business most in need of revolution is banking, because of the huge profits historically earned and the absurd executive bonuses. Although there have been changes – such as web bank accounts, and small experiments in peer-to-peer banking such aszopa.com– there has been no major attempt to oust or replace middlemen. Why that hasn't happened is a puzzle.Books have had a partial revolution – mainly brought about by people outside the industry. We can buy books through the web (Amazon, etc), read them on electronic readers (Sony's Reader, Amazon's Kindle or Coolreaders) or simply, and often more effectively, on a device such as the iPhone. We can also share our views globally through online book clubs such asgoodreads.comorlibrarything.com. Self-publishing sites such aslulu.comandblurb.comhave enjoyed some success without generating a big iTunes-style market place where books can be sampled and rated. The two most advanced cases of digitisation are music and photography, where both the way we create content (digital cameras or recordings for MySpace) and the way we enjoy it (iTunes, mobile phones and online sites such as Flickr and YouTube) have transformed the industries and generated a surge of creativity among users.If I had to take a bet on the next place to feel the creative blast of digitisation, it would be painting. To those not involved this may seem a sacrilege. I finally became convinced at the recentSymbianshow in London, where I saw someone painting with a real paintbrush on a mobile phone screen. At the bottom were palettes of (digitised) colour in which you "dipped" the hairs of the brush, which then picked up the colour ready to "paint" on the touch-sensitive screen of the phone. You can change the size of the brush stroke and the transparency level of colours – ending up with something indistinguishable from a photo of a "real" painting. You can also import images from your photo album for tracing or mixed media exercises. You could print the result out on a canvass at a photographic store and hang on the wall like an oil painting.All this may seem wacky unless you have already used an existing application – such as Brushes – on the iPhone that enables you to paint with the tip of your finger on a mobile screen. As the picture size on the phone's screen can be expanded eight times it is possible to do detailed work asDavid Hockney and others have proved to great effect. If this can be done on a small mobile screen, think what could be done with the next generation of bigger tablet screens led by the much-rumoured Apple iTablet. Digitisation has so far changed art mainly for the observer – through being able to browse through the world's art galleries online – or for the professional creator through theSaatchi online galleryor experiences restricted to the desktop (such as Photoshop, Illustrator or the Wacom Bamboo family of tablets). It won't, needless to say, kill painting any more than e-readers will kill books, but it will open painting to a much wider number of practitioners, enabling people to practise on trains or even waiting in queues. All it needs is a big hitter such as Jeff Bezos or Steve Jobs to bring it to a mass audience. That may be just around the corner.twitter.com/vickeegan
Christmas is coming and PC vendors are not getting fat. However, things are not as bad as expected. Thelatest prediction from the analysts at Gartneris that this year's PC shipments will increase by 2.8% to 299m units. This contrasts with itsearlier predictionof a catastrophic 11.9% decline to only 257m units.PC market revenues will fall by 10.7% to $217bn, predicts Gartner, because of lower ASPs (average selling prices). But PC manufacturers have had to live with decreasing prices for 30 years. Only by offering dramatically more power for less cost do they keep buyers coming back.The UK market also looks reasonably perky. The research company GfK Retail and Technology says: "Alongside the launch of a widely talked about and much anticipated new operating system, PC sales began to rise and we saw a 9% and 10% increase respectively, in the last two weeks of October."But mainly the research shows the impact of netbooks, where sales were up by 120% on last year. By contrast, UK retail sales of notebooks and desktops were both down, according to GfK. Still, it could have been worse.Whether Windows 7 will make much difference to this year's PC sales is still open to question, but it won't do any harm. Gartner's research director, George Shiffler, probably has it about right when he says: "We are expecting a modest bump in fourth-quarter consumer demand as vendors promote new Windows 7-based PCs, but the attraction will be the new PCs, not Windows 7."Some of these PCs will be bought by people who put off buying a new PC until Windows 7 came along, but will there be enough of them in the context of sales running at 300m units a year? Global economic trends have much more impact.For next year, in an improving economy, Gartner is predicting PC shipments of 336.6m units, an increase of 12.6%. But the crunch market could be a battle between netbooks and smartbooks.At the moment, most netbooks are clearly differentiated because they make use of a cut-rate Microsoft pricing scheme to run Windows XP on an Intel Atom processor. But Microsoft would like netbook manufacturers to use Windows 7 instead, and it has come up with Windows 7 Starter to meet their needs. Next year, then, netbook buyers could have a choice of XP, Windows 7 Starter and Windows 7 Home Premium running on much the same hardware. But does a PC running the notebook-standard Windows 7 Home Premium still count as a netbook?We should also see a flood of small machines that look like netbooks but will instead be called smartbooks – a coinage supported by chip-supplier Qualcomm. Many of these will have ARM Cortex processors instead of Intel Atom chips, so they won't be able to run XP or Windows 7, even if they wanted to. Instead, they'll usually run one of the many varieties of Linux, probably including Google's Android and Chrome OS, Intel's Moblin, and Ubuntu.The promised attractions for smartbooks include longer battery life and lower prices. The drawbacks include an inability to run popular PC programs such as iTunes and Microsoft Office.Smartbooks are interesting because they fit to the mostly empty section of the market in between smartphones and netbooks, which Intel calls MIDs (Mobile Internet Devices). And although most smartbooks will probably look like netbooks, they will actually have more in common with the newer breed of Linux- and Android-based smartphones. They could therefore have a stronger appeal to phone users scaling up than to PC users scaling down.Either way, it's not worth having a pseudo-religious war about smartbooks and netbooks: people should just buy whichever device suits their needs, and respect other people's freedom to do the same. That's not too hard, is it?
Eiji Aonuma, director of the Legend of Zelda franchise, has an apology to make. "The Water Temple in the Ocarina of Time was notorious for being very tough to conquer," he says. "I am most sorry that it was not easy for you to put on and take off the heavy boots; that all the time you had to visit the inventory."I am," he continues, genuine regret evident in his tone, "very sorry about that. I should have made it much easier to switch to the heavy boots."His favourite among his dungeon designs so far, the Ocarina of Time's ingenious Water Temple is marred in his eyes by this slight ergonomic flaw. "Aside from the problem with the boots," he continues, "I like the Water Temple so much."Aonuma's first job for Nintendo was the design of the intricate temples and dungeons for The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, and he has been director of the Zelda franchise on every title since Ocarina's 1998 release, including the latest instalment, Spirit Tracks (released on DS on 7 December in the US and 11 December in the UK). He is also working on a new Wii addition to the series.Welcome to the dungeonHis background, however, is in the design of marionettes, not video games. "At college, I was making wooden dolls. Not simple wooden dolls, but mechanical dolls, ones that were able to play musical instruments, able to dance. I loved people seeing them and being surprised, watching them wonder how these kind of things could be done, what kind of gimmicks were inside."From the start, he says, it was clear there would be parallels between making these dolls and designing dungeons for games. "I did an interview , and had my first encounter with [Nintendo's chief developer] Shigeru Miyamoto, who happened to love the dolls I brought. He said: 'If you want to make things like that, Nintendo might be a good place for you to work.' So that's how I decided to work for the company."Like Miyamoto, Aonuma confesses not to play games much as relaxation. Once again, he is apologetic, penitent. "Sometimes I hear stories of other developers who play video games in their leisure time in order to remove the stresses of video game-making. I am sorry that I cannot be that kind of hardcore gamer myself. Whenever a lot of people are playing with certain software, I try to play these games because I want to know what's in them that is capturing so much attention. That's part of my job, though."Instead, Aonuma relaxes with music: he is the leader of a 40-piece band, founded by Nintendo employees. Their name is, of course, a Zelda reference: The Wind Wakers.He admires the Professor Layton series of puzzle games on the DS for their "interesting presentation style", but says that he is no good at "jump games" such as Mario. "I always miss the point where I should land, and I always cry out and say 'Wait a minute, is this the end of the whole story? Is there no rescue from that?'" This is, he says, the root of Ocarina of Time's auto-jump system.Aonuma approaches games as he approached his puppets: as a craft. They are mechanical puzzles, designed to inspire wonder as they are understood and solved. "Surprise" is a word he keeps returning to. He loved the way that his dolls "surprised people", and what first drew him to Nintendo was his observation that they were "trying to surprise people with video games". His highest praise for Miyamoto is that, after 12 years, he "still comes up with ideas that really surprise me". Surprise, for Aonuma, means the wonder of discovery.It is because he does not want to spoil the "pleasant surprise" that he is reluctant to reveal details about the forthcoming Wii version. However, he does offer a teaser about transportation for the series' protagonist, Link."I have an eight-year-old son myself at home, and quite recently he started playing The Phantom Hourglass for DS, because when the software first hit the market he was too young. When he started playing with the boat, I told him: 'In the next Zelda, you are going to be able to ride on the train.' He answered: 'OK, Dad, first boat, and then train? Surely next time, Link is going to fly in the sky ... '"Aonuma pauses, grinning. "I just don't know. If many people make many speculations ... some of them might be correct. Right now, I have to refrain from commenting on anything."Wii moveOne aspect of the Wii version that Aonuma is more than happy to talk about is its control system: it will be the first Zelda title to use MotionPlus."With this attachment, your minute hand movements are more precisely reflected … You can feel it so naturally and so intuitively. It's not just an improvement over the movement of Link himself: the realisation of your more minute movements on the screen will expand the entire gameplay. I believe that we will be able to offer some great innovations in the new Legend of Zelda. Of course I have to refrain from giving any details, but we are contemplating altering the way the game progresses in comparison with all the past Legend of Zelda franchises." He looks apologetic again as he catches himself short of giving something away. "But I have to stop talking here."Curriculum vitaeAge46Education1988Completed a master's degree in composition design from School of Design  of the Faculty of Fine Arts, Tokyo National University of Fine Arts &amp; MusicCareer1988Started working for Nintendo. Has worked on the following titles: The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time; The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask; The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker; The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess; The Legend of Zelda: Four Swords Adventures; The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass; The Legend of Zelda: Spirit Tracks
3G dongles are nice, but the problem with them is that they're very specific, and tend to come with their own software, which may or may not spray all sorts of little extras around your computer, rendering the experience of getting online while mobile seriously vexing. (Yes, BT, I'm thinking of you and your intrusive software.)Why can't we just have free Wi-Fi everywhere? You know the answer to that: companies don't feel like offering it (andeven Swindon is going to limit it). But here's a smart combination: a 3G dongle that's incorporated into a portable Wi-Fi generator. No troublesome software, just the warm glow of a Wi-Fi signal that your computer – and indeed your smartphone or other Wi-Fi device – can hook into. Private, simple, mobile. That's what the latest offerings from 3 and (generically) from Mi-Fi offer: a pocketable device that picks up a 3G data signal and broadcasts a secure Wi-Fi signal.The device from 3 is neat, little, bright and white, about the size of a credit card but fatter. There are four buttons and five lights, where each light can glow more than one colour (to indicate, for example, that it's negotiating to join the 3G network, the quality of the 3G signal, and whether it's broadcasting a Wi-Fi signal). This could easily lead to interface overload, but actually, once you get it working – because it truly is a click-to-start experience once 3 has configured it – then it's a delight. The offer of pay-as-you-go products also means that you aren't locked into an 18-month contract that offers a fair rate for the first three months and a lousy one for the next 15; the latest evidence suggests that PAYG mobile broadband is becoming more and more popular. Though you can't choose which sim goes into the 3 Wi-Fi dongle, you can with the Novatel MiFi. It also lets you store and share files from an SD card, unlike the 3 version.That should make up for the hassles that I did have with the Novatel, which requires you to enter the 3G account details (which I didn't have to hand). Given those, it's a breeze, but it is slightly more complicated than the 3 proposition.The other aspect of the 3G Wi-Fi dongles as a class that makes them very much more useful than those you plug into your computer is that you can move it about for the best signal. On a train, having a plug-in dongle down by your lap, with a big chunk of steel – the train body – between you and the signal is never going to be ideal; with the MiFi you can simply lodge it by the window (or more sensibly, put it in your pocket, though I expect a smart company will add a sucker to let you stick it to train or car windows soon enough).Mobile broadband? Great. Wi-Fi? Brilliant. The combination? Unbeatable.Pros:portable, simple, connects to more than one device, no extra software, choice of payment plans (Novatel)Cons:may need some setup, may be limited to certain payment plans (3)three.co.uknovatelwireless.com
Two years ago, security researchers showed the Black Hat security conference howhackers could exploit vulnerabilitiesin Apple's Safari web browser on the iPhone to steal your data or another exploit to send text messages or turn of the microphone to eavesdrop on you.The first exploit required the iPhone owner to visit a website. Anotherexploitwas triggered via a maliciously formed text message. Now, a malicious worm is biting its way through Apple's iPhones.The worm – called iBotNet.A by Intego or Duh virus by Sophos – looks for new victims on the networks infected iPhones connect to. The Dutch bank ING haslinked the worm to a criminal networktrying to steal its customers' banking details.Like computer worms, this bit of malware is also using techniques similar to botnets, which attack desktop computers. To be fair, some of the vulnerabilities have only been possible after users"jailbroke"their phones to run applications not authorised by Apple, or added features such as data tethering. They also had to install SSH and not change the default password, to whichApple has shown very little sympathy.Such users should have considered themselves warned by another worm thatRickrolledusers by changing their wallpaper to Rick Astley.Are all iPhones vulnerable to this attack? To put this into perspective, only about6-8% of iPhone users have jailbroken their handsets, according to InformationWeek.Are all iPhone owners vulnerable? There have been vulnerabilities that affect all iPhones, but the recent attacks follow the lines of many computer attacks. Computer security experts will often say that the weakest point of computer security is PEBKAC – the problem exists between the keyboard and chair.The weakest link is the computer user or the iPhone owner. There is a perverse irony that people who have cracked their iPhones are now being targeted by hackers.Mobile phones used to be just that: phones that you could carry. They were able to make calls, send text messages and manage your contacts. Although smartphones have for a long time been described as handheld computers, it was more aspiration and marketing than reality until relatively recently.Now, especially with the iPhone-driven apps revolution, smartphones can truly be called handheld computers. However, with great power can come great vulnerabilities. Just as we've had to learn how to keep our desktop computers secure, we're going to have to learn how to keep our handheld computers, our smartphones, secure.
"I think there's a lot of lies being told, and this was just one of them." That uncharitable assessment by a source who preferred to remain anonymous, of the claim by Stephen Timms, the financial secretary to the Treasury – who last Friday insisted that "90%" of the ISP [internet service provider] marketsupported the principle of cutting off people after repeated warnings– is just another in the three-way war of attrition between ISPs, the music and film industries, and the government over the issue of filesharing online.The claim by Timms – which cannot be true in respect of the numbers of users, as the two biggest consumer ISPs, BT and TalkTalk, do not support it – followed the publication ofthe government's digital economy billon Friday. Timms has been closely involved in the consultations and drafting of the bill. It arrived to plaudits from content industries (specifically, the music, film and software businesses), boos and hisses from internet organisations, and howls of outrage from clued-up internet users. The latter believed the pursuit by Lord Mandelson of powers to alter theCopyright, Designs and Patents Act of 1988in any way he liked through "statutory instrument", – effectively, an addendum requiring only a Parliamentary vote – to be an unwelcome leap into the dark.Right idea, wrong approachAll sides agree illicit filesharing to acquire ostensibly paid-for content for free is bad. And there the unanimity ends. ISPs are extremely unhappy with plans for amendments and with notification proposals under which people accused of copyright infringement would get a series of increasingly threatening communications, perhaps ending in having their internet connection revoked.A spokesman for BT – the largest ISP in the UK – said, in a statement, the team that had worked on the bill "were surprised by the amendment and are still digesting what it could mean for the industry". TalkTalk, one of the three largest ISPs, has begun a "Don't Disconnect Us" campaign, which says that while "copyright infringement through filesharing is illegal and the government is right to tackle the issue" that "the proposals to deter illegal filesharing announced by Lord Mandelson in September are wrong in principle and won't work in practice".Part of the resentment seems to arise from an impression that the government is not listening to the hundreds of UK ISPs – which operate on thin, sometimes razor-thin margins – while acceding to the demands of the creative industries. The latter apparently now includes football's Premier League, whose chief executive Richard Scudamorecalled for the safe passage of the digital economy bill "because digital theft is reaching epidemic proportions and shows no signs of abating … it is estimated that more than six million people illegally fileshare regularly, and the UK leads the world in illegal downloads of TV programmes, with up to 25% of all online TV piracy taking place here".ISPs disagree with content companies and government over where the costs of prevention should fall. Last month, BT and Carphone Warehouse, TalkTalk's parent, estimatedpolicing broadband would cost about £2 a line a month. The latest estimate from the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills (which is piloting the bill through Parliament) is lower – in the region of £3 to £10 a notification (ISPs think the number is closer to the lower of those).But ISPs don't see why they should have to pay any of it. "Our point is that if the music industry thinks that there's a large benefit in disconnecting these people, it should pay for finding them. There's no benefit to the ISP in it," says Andrew Heaney, TalkTalk's director of strategy and regulation, and the man behind its Don't Disconnect Us campaign."Illegal activities are bad," he says. "They should be discouraged and stopped. But you can't stop people getting hold of illegal content. What this bill has is a lot of sticks, and no carrots." But surely it is government's job to create laws against doing bad things, not in favour of things? Government doesn't create business models; that's for industry to figure out. The "sticks" in new bills ought to outnumber carrots, surely?Nick Lansman, secretary-general of the Internet Service Providers Association (ISPA), says content companies are creating the problem by not making enough available in ways people want. "It's all very well saying you shouldn't [download illicitly], but if you can't get something – such as the Beatles back catalogue, which isn't available for download legally online – then people will find a way go acquire it."For TalkTalk, Heaney agrees. "I'm old enough to remember [video] recording Top of The Pops," he says. "Recently we demonstrated how you can record up to five net stations simultaneously, using simple technology. It's fatal to think you'll stop people by this sort of discouragement."Criminal recordsSo should the discouragement be greater? Should the government make filesharing a criminal, rather than civil  offence? (Timms emphasised that the government has absolutely no intention of doing that.) "Sending someone to prison for downloading doesn't get around the problems: people will find different ways of doing it," says Heaney. "There's also a risk of catching innocent people." The standard of proof would also be higher.But Heaney's argument is bolstered by Virgin's claim that when the "three strikes" proposal was first mooted, the amount of encrypted traffic on its network rose dramatically. BT says: "It was obvious the government weren't keen on the principle [of criminalising filesharing] – mainly because it felt it would be hard to identify the infringer. Despite this, we still feel there is merit in the principle and that technical measures are a step too far."Lansman adds that the government has even shied away from clarifying whether it's legal to rip a CD to a hard drive or digital music player. As the law stands, it is not. Ripping a song to your hard drive and putting a copy on to multiple digital music players that you own is multiple copyright infringement – a law that is truly honoured more in the breach than the observance. The ISP notification system on filesharing may just go the same way.
Although it won't be available for another year, Google's Chrome OS is an attempt to take over the fast-growing netbook part of the PC market, which is currently dominated by Microsoft. It's aimed at people who live their lives online, and who can do everything they need in a Google Chrome browser. And if you've been following the hype for "cloud computing," Chrome OS is designed specifically to work with the cloud. Installing your own software simply isn't allowed.If Chrome OS takes off, it will give Google an unprecedented degree of power over PC vendors, who will only be able to use components that Google specifies and supports. Google will control and maintain the operating system remotely, so if it doesn't want you to have something, you can't have it. It's like having an auto-update service that you can't turn off.World dominationEarly signs of this power surfaced last week during an online Google press conference. For example, the presenters said Chrome OS netbooks wouldn't be allowed to use hard drives (Flash memory boots faster) and that Google would specify which Wi-Fi cards it would support. Sundar Pichai, a Google vice-president of product management, also said Chrome OS would be used on "slightly larger" netbooks: "We care about the user experience."In theory, companies could change the open source code themselves, or even use a different browser. But then Google's servers wouldn't support it. There's nothing new about the idea of a Chrome OS machine, and there's not much that's new in the code: it's based on open-source projects such as Linux, WebKit and Moblin. Also, Google has been careful to point out its limited ambitions for Chrome OS netbooks. The initial "use cases" include "computing on the couch" and "a lightweight, secondary work computer". It's not trying to replace traditional PCs running Windows or Mac OS X."There are some applications that are not available on the web. There are some things that this machine will not be able to do," said Pichai. "It's a companion device. Most users we expect to have another machine at home."Chrome OS is optimised for the latest, draft-n version of Wi-Fi so it's assumed users can get that from their couch, or at work. Chrome OS netbooks will also work in Wi-Fi hotspots and on a small number of trains and planes, but their offline capabilities are limited.This could make Chrome OS netbooks a non-starter for most people, but the assumption is that the future will provide solutions for more people in more places. web applications will become more powerful, which will reduce the need for specialised applications software, and fast, free Wi-Fi will become more widely available. When both things happen, Google could end up controlling a significant portion of the PC market.The aim, says Pichai, is to make your PC work like a TV: you just turn it on and in a few seconds you can do what you want. In this case, it's assumed that what you want to do is check your email, use social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter, look up maps, and so on.These are the sorts of things people can already do with a smartphone, and Google is competing in the smartphone market with its Android software. However, Chrome OS takes the idea even further than Android or Apple's iPhone by eliminating local applications. There won't be a Chrome OS app store, and Chrome OS netbooks won't run Android apps, because all the apps are online apps.Eliminating local apps means Google can strip out everything that isn't required to run the Chrome browser, so the final code should be smaller and faster. It also means Google can prevent users (and malware writers) from messing around with the operating system: if a single byte is changed, it can replace the whole thing.Further simplification comes from not supporting local devices such as MP3 players and digital cameras, except as USB storage devices. Many of Windows' complications come from its support for tens of thousands of different hardware components and add-on devices. Chrome OS does not try to do either. While this is limiting, it's also liberating.  Users no longer have to worry about maintaining their computer: Google does that. Also, users won't have to make backups because there is no hard drive and no local data to back up: everything is stored online. (Some data will be cached on the device for off-line use, but it's all encrypted.)It also means Chrome OS computers can be shared around the house, or in cafes, schools and libraries. "Your" netbook is, in effect, stored online, in the cloud. Any device becomes "yours" when you log on.Google still has some problems to solve – support for local printing is one example – and has yet to reach deals with potential manufacturing partners. However, assuming Chrome OS netbooks appear on the market, will they be a success?Historically, the omens aren't good. In the mid-90s, Oracle's boss, Larry Ellison, got a huge amount of publicity for simplified "network computers", but they flopped. Microsoft had at least two goes at the idea, with WebTV (set-top box computers that plugged into a TV set) and, in 1999, Web Companions running its Windows CE operating system, the basis of Windows Mobile. Around the same time, lots of manufacturers tried to sell WebPads as simple internet access devices, based onan AMD design.A decade later, however, the idea's time may have come.Practical appsOne person who should take a bullish view is Nick Carr, whose influential book, The Big Switch, predicates a shift from desktop to cloud computing. He says: "My sense of the Chrome OS is that, while it represents an obvious next step for web-based computing, the inability to install applications may limit its adoption, at least for the next few years. I think it will be a while before mainstream computer users will be ready to give up the option to run their own apps and store their own data, even if they're more than happy to do most of their computing through a browser."Chrome OS is a smart way for Google to push forward the concept and the technology of cloud computing, but I wouldn't expect it to take the world by storm upon its release," adds Carr.Storing data online is a critical point for some people because online sites go bust, and because people can be locked out of their Google accounts for no apparent reason. But Ray Valdes, a Gartner analyst based in the US, points out that people lose data "when it's in the safety of their own homes", so it could be argued that Google's servers are safer for these users.Valdes says: "Google is trying to redefine the notion of a netbook, which in the past has been a watered-down laptop: something that's cheaper but not as satisfying. Google is trying to change that value proposition so that a netbook is a faster, richer, more secure experience: it will be a different kind of value proposition than a laptop. If Google is able to do that, it will be very successful."
Wikipedia editors seem to be dropping like flies, according to research byFelipe Ortega, from the Universidad Rey Juan Carlos in Madrid. He analysed Wikipedia's data on the editing histories of its more than three million active contributors in 10 languages and found that "in the first three months of 2009, the English-language Wikipedia suffered a net loss of more than 49,000 editors, compared to a net loss of 4,900 during the same period a year earlier," reportsThe Wall Street Journal.In 2006, the number of editors of the English language Wikipedia was growing by about 10,000 per month, but the number of editors has been declining since the end of 2007. Ortega's figures suggest that in March this year, the number was declining by about 20,000 a month. You might expect it to level off, when it reaches the more hardcore participants, but clearly this rate of decline is unsustainable.One reason for the decline might be that the "real" editors have not given up, they're just not visiting the site as often. This is true in my (very very small) case. I spent some time getting a particular page going, but I probably didn't even visit it in the first three months of this year, let alone edit it. Ortega will therefore have counted me as a "lost editor" but I don't think I am.It's a fact of life that page creation is much more intensive than curation. So much of Wikipedia is now, relatively speaking, "finished" that you'd expect the number of real edits to decline.There are other factors, of course, including vandalism, and the perceived hostility of some Wikipedia admins, aka "the deletionists". There is bound to be some level of conflict between the people who think that the aim is to create interesting entries and that there's no limit to Wikipedia's coverage, and the ones who think there's no room for anything they consider "not notable".If you're any sort of Wikipedian at all, have you reduced the level of your participation, and if so, why?And if people like you have given up on Wikipedia, what will happen to it? Will co-founder Jimmy Wales get what he seems to want -- everything gets locked down and edits are only published after they have been approved -- or will the content gradually decay due to random edits/vandalism?Although Wikipedia has been a poster-child for "user generated content" and "crowd-sourcing," the community-based approach has always been a means, not an end. The aim of Wikipedia is to produce a viable free encyclopedia, not just in English but in all the world's major languages. Wikipedia doesn't have to care how the work gets done, as long as it gets done for nothing.
Google made its name in search through a simple principle: if lots of other sites point to a particular site that matches a search term, that's probably the most highly thought-of site for that topic. It's rather like asking everyone who's the most knowledgeable about something: they might not all agree, but you'll find a consensus. Before Google, search relied more on who could shout the loudest about themselves – which brought increasingly useless results, just as it would with people.But the internet being what it is, a place where pretty much anyone can put anything up, sometimes the site that everyone's pointing at isn't tasteful, or polite, or even legal in some parts of the world. That's the risk one takes with free speech: it includes the freedom to offend. But equally, other people can find that "offensive" content amusing or educational or a bolster to their beliefs: is a satirical page about Sarah Palin offensive to women, Republicans, or just the terminally humourless?Knowing that's how Google's algorithm works, people have cooked up "Googlebombs" to attach particular meanings to people: from 2005 to 2007  a search with the words "miserable failure" directed you to the White House home page, where George Bush was in power. Google subsequently "defused" those bombs bytweaking its algorithm to make such attempts fail.At the time, Matt Cutts, Google's anti-spam chief, noted that "people assumed that [the results] are Google's opinion, or that Google has hand-coded the results of these Googlebombed queries. That's not true."And now an ugly image of Michelle Obama has hit the topic of the image search, in part because so many people were linking to it – either in horror or delight – which created a sort of short-lived Googlebomb, and promptedan explanation(not, please note, an apology) from Google, repeating Cutts from 2007: "Sometimes Google search results from the Internet can include disturbing content, even from innocuous queries. We assure you that the views expressed by such sites are not in any way endorsed by Google."But why not just remove the page from its index? Because Google doesn't want to be seen to be making choices; that would put it into the middle of every battle fought by every special interest group everywhere. Hence: "We do not remove a page from our search results simply because its content is unpopular or because we receive complaints concerning it." The company has already tackled the issue once before,over the search results for the word "Jew", which found all sorts of racist sites.Only legal action – by the authorities (because the US first amendment allows Google to republish "legal" speech, making it proof against civil action) – can get a page taken out of the index.But for the rest, all Google can offer is: "We apologise if you've had an upsetting experience using Google. We hope you understand our position regarding offensive results." In other words, don't blame us – blame the world out there.
Aren't animals cute? This phrase effectively sums up the rationale behind this fun but limited sim-game from EA. If you've ever wanted to scratch a hippo's ears and make it purr like a kitten, this is probably the closest you'll ever get.Perhaps the best way to describe the gameplay is The Sims meet Lion King meets Viva Pinata – it doesn't quite fall into any one category. You play in a god-like role, looking after herds of different creatures and controlling animals you've befriended to complete various missions.The immediate impressions of the game are actually quite impressive – the presentation is spot on, with evocative African music and pleasing cartoony graphics. The tutorial system too is effective – within five minutes you'll have easily grasped the fundamentals.It's probably wrong to expect too much for a game aimed squarely at the kids market – and, for what it's worth, I imagine youngsters will be delighted with the mix of cutesy minigames and Sims-like micromanagement. But you can't help but feel like there should be more on offer.For starters, there's a paltry eight species to play with. And once you've completed all the tasks in the game's different areas, there's not a huge amount of replay value. There's also the big problem of repetitiveness – petting an animal using the Wii remote is something you'll have to do literally hundreds of times.It's a nicely presented game with a definite charm – I imagine many will be surprised as I was to discover you can mate the animals, and even make the lions kill smaller species – but scratch beneath the surface and you'll find there's not an awful lot of fun to be had here that won't get tiring very quickly.
A blog hosting an offensive image of Michelle Obama with monkey features has removed it and posted an apology.The image, which has been appearing at the top of search results when the words "Michelle Obama" are put into Google Images, was posted on a blog called Hot Girls, which is hosted by the Google-owned blog service, Blogger.Hot Girls' owner has today removed the image, which appears to have originally been put up with a blog post on 21 October, anddisplayed an apology in Chinese with a very loose English translation.Google had refused to remove the offensive image from its picture search listings, despite complaints that it is racist, instead opting to run an ad next to itexplaining its policy on how search engine results work.A spokesman for Google said that the Hot Girls blog and image may still temporarily appear when some users make Google Images searches but that it was coming out of the search engine's indexing system.Earlier today Google's ad explaining why it kept the image in search listings was being sporadically replaced by other ads.A spokesman for Google UK said the company was looking into why that was happening for some users and that it was not a "deliberate" action to remove the explanation."We would generally keep it [the explanation] up for as long as the blog [hosting the content] was up," he added.Google warned, however, that the image of the US first lady could easily reappear in its listings if another blog posted it.It is not the first time that Google has taken out explanation ads against search queries. In 2004 when searches for the word "Jew" returned antisemitic website resultsGoogle responded with a similar approach.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Google has refused to remove an image that depicts Michelle Obama with monkey features, but has purchased online ads apologising and explaining how its search results work.The image, which appears as the top search result when "Michelle Obama" is entered into Google Images, has led to protests that it is offensive and racist and should be removed.Google has decided not to remove the image but hasinstead opted to take out an ad, which sits above the offensive picture on the relevant Google Images web page, to explain its decision.The ad runs with the headline "An explanation of our search results".The US search engine company said its policy was "not to remove a page from our search results simply because its content is unpopular or because we receive complaints concerning it".Aware of the potential criticism over the stance, Google explained in its ad that as a search engine it was not responsible for questionable online content ranking highly on its website.Google said that in general internet search engines are a "reflection of the content and information that is available on the internet" and that a ranking "relies heavily on computer algorithms using thousands of factors to calculate a page's relevance to a given query"."The beliefs and preferences of those who work at Google, as well as the opinions of the general public, do not determine or impact our search results," said Google."Individual citizens and public interest groups do periodically urge us to remove particular links or otherwise adjust search results. Although Google reserves the right to address such requests individually, Google views the integrity of our search results as an extremely important priority."Sometimes Google search results from the internet can include disturbing content, even from innocuous queries. We assure you that the views expressed by such sites are not in any way endorsed by Google."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
I've been using the Wii a lot recently. Mainly, it has to be said, trying out some "kids" games for an upcoming post. But I'm also planning to pick up the new Mario at some point, possibly when I can drag myself away from Dragon Age and Assassin's Creed II. Yes, there are simply too many must play games around at the moment. But according toa US analystit will be Xbox 360 and PS3 owners who do the buying, with Wii owners reigning in their spending. Or, as analyst Doug Creutz puts it, "the Wii bubble could be deflating."His argument – core gamers will continue to buy games despite any economic concerns – seems fairly valid. Although the hefty batch of excellent recent titles – MW2, Dragon Age etc – will also have a lot to do with it.  Creutz also looks at the impact of a Wii slowdown on the publishers.While we believe the Wii is likely to be a drag on overall software sales through the holiday, the impact should be limited to those publishers which have invested significantly in Wii development, with the biggest negative impact likely to be felt by Electronic Arts, which (unwisely in our view) heavily invested in Wii development for [calendar 2009].So if the Wii is on a go slow, which console will see growth in 2010? Yes, the PS3. According to Creutz's survey more than 32% of PS2 owners yet to upgrade were planning to get a PS3. While 21% of respondents were planning to get a PS3 this "holiday" compared to 9% thinking about a 360. Yes, the 360 has larger market peneation in the US, and hence may have reached a saturation point with hardcore gamers, but Creutz thinks Blu-ray and price will play a part too.With the frontline Xbox 360 console (the Elite) also retailing for $299, we believe Sony now has, for the first time, a significant price advantage at retail, particularly in the minds of serious gamers who are more likely to be considering the PS3 vs. the Xbox 360 Elite rather than the $199 Xbox 360 Arcade version.What do you think then? Has the Wii bubble burst? And if so will the PS3 be the beneficiary in 2010? Or is the Wii still likely to be the console best-seller this Christmas?
* The first Else, First Else, was unveiled in London yesterday. If you have not heard about it before, the press release says: "The First ELSE is the realization of a comprehensive concept developed by Emblaze Mobile to define the differentiating factor of its product: user experience."In other words, it's a touch-screen mobile with a terrible name. And according to the website athttp://www.firstelse.com/, it's a breakthrough in "user-experience-centric philosophy designed to enhance man-machine capabilities through pre-integration services and revolutionary one-click interface". I won't say "you couldn't make it up" because clearly someone has. If you're mad keen to get your hands on one, it should be on sale next spring.The Else is based on the Access Linux Platform (ALP), originally from Palm, and has a one-thumb touch interface. Engadget has a long story,Emblaze's First Else unveiled in London, promises to be a game-changer, and a video.* In the past, I have been somewhat unimpressed by the amount of free advertising that the BBC has given DAB digital radio, and its relative if not total lack of promotion for other digital radio sources such as the internet and Freeview. It's therefore a great pleasure to note, somewhat belatedly, that the BBC now pre-announcedThe future of audio: the UK Radioplayer. Well, Tim Davie (a Director of BBC Audio &amp; Music) has details and a video showing a "mocked-up demo of how the player might look and work" in a blog post.Last Thursday's Guardian report by Sarah Hartley,BBC to launch internet radio player with commercial stations, included the BBC video plus an interview with Tim Davie.There's also aBBC press releasethat says:The UK Radioplayer, due for launch early next year, is a pop-up console which will be open to stream more than 400 licensed national, local, community and student radio stations, offering a unique, constantly updated live and on-demand audio service.It allows listeners to search every station on the UK Radioplayer network, identifying news programmes, sports highlights, musical genres or even individual songs, using a revolutionary new search engine designed for radio.A BBC blog comment from the technical project leader notes that: "Radioplayer hasn't been through the BBC's approvals process yet. The proposal is still being defined, with important issues like potential market impact very much at the forefront of our thinking."And although the Radioplayer involves the standardisation of user interface controls and metadata, it doesn't appear to define any minimum standards for radio quality. It would be a good move for consumers if Radioplayer obliged stations to at least match the quality of the stuff they put out on DAB, and let's face it, most of them would be hard pushed to do worse.Either way, it seems to me A Good Thing for British radio stations to get all their faces on the same dial on the internet, as it were. Because anyone who goes to the usual radio streaming sites is quite likely to end up listening to an American or other foreign station, if my experience is anything to go by.* Finally, there's Flan. Most of us know it, if we know it at all, as the next thing after Cupcake, Donut and Éclair. In other words, it will be a future version of Google Android phone software, since these are appearing in alphabetical order codenamed after cakes. (I'd have gone for Fudge or perhaps Felicitous Fairycake, if Ubuntu hasn't done that one yet.) However, Flan development must be going well because theLondon Timesreckons that a Google-branded phone will the first to use it, and "experts are predicting that the Googlephone will be launched in the US early next year".Since Donut was only released in September, I wouldn't reckon on Flan being baked before next year's third quarter. However, as physicistNiels Bohrwisely observed, "prediction is very difficult, especially about the future".
Sony Ericsson has suffered a major setback with news that retailers Carphone Warehouse and Phones4U have halted sales of the handset it had hoped would revive its flagging fortunes because of a software glitch.Sony Ericsson's Satio phone, formerly codenamed the Idou, was launched last month backed by a multi-million pound advertising campaign featuring hundreds of people bouncing through Barcelona on brightly coloured spacehoppers, designed to highlights its mammoth 12.1 megapixel camera.Sony Ericsson - which has been losing market share to the likes of Samsung - HTC and Apple, had hoped that the phone would be a winner with consumers. But retailers have reported a high number of customers returning their phone, complaining that it has software problems. Both Carphone Warehouse and Phones4U have suspended sales of the device.The phone apparently crashes when switching between applications while some customers have complained that it can suddenly lose all of its ringtones. Customers have complained that they have to remove the battery to get the phone to switch back on. Sony Ericsson says it is working on a solution to the problem which it hopes to make available on its website as soon as it is ready. It remains to be seen whether any of the mobile networks will offer the patch as an 'over the air' upgrade.The issue appears to be linked with the way that SonyEricsson has placed its own software 'skin' over the handset's basic operating system. Phones sold directly by Orange and Vodafone - both of whom have placed their own 'skins' on the device - do not seem to have been affected.Sony Ericsson reported a widened quarterly loss of €164m (£148m) in October and took in €455m of external funding from its joint venture investors, Sony and Ericsson to bolster its balance sheet.
On this week's Guardian Tech Weekly, we put the Sony Ericsson 12 megapixel cameraphone thorough it's paces, or rather we ask the Guardian photodesk to do so for us - can it measure up for these hard to please photography experts?You canget an enhanced version of this week's podcastwhich will let you see the pictures taken in the review.Tech Weekly with pictures is here- right click it and "Save As..." before opening it with iTunes, Quicktime, your iPhone or iPod to see AND hear it.We'll also be talking to Phil McKinney, global  CTO of Hewlitt Packard, who not only acts as Chief Technology Officer, but enjoys an alter-ego as the presenter of the popular Killer Innovations podcast. He'll be giving us his thoughts on the industry, the future and more.And of course, we'll turn the show over to you as we find out what's been hot on the blogs, and highlighting the best tech set-ups from our Flickr group.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Microsoft has publishedSecurity Advisory (977981), confirming reports of a "zero day" vulnerability in Internet Explorer 6 SP1 and IE7. If you were thinking of upgrading to IE8, this would be a good time to do it. Microsoft says there have been no known attempts to exploit the security hole, but this could change at any time.The vulnerability, published via the BugTraq mailing list, was described byVupen Security:This issue is caused due to a memory corruption error in the Microsoft HTML Viewer (mshtml.dll) when retrieving certain CSS/STYLE objects via the "getElementsByTagName()" method, which could allow attackers to crash an affected browser or execute arbitrary code by tricking a user into visiting a malicious web page.Its suggested solution is: "Disable Active Scripting in the Internet and Local intranet security zones." Because so many sites use JavaScript, an alternative would be to change the security zone setting to High so that you get a prompt before scripts are run. You can also add trusted sites to the Trusted zone.The vulnerability affects browsers running on both Windows XP and Vista, but it's potentially more dangerous on XP. Vista runs IE7 in Protected Mode where exploits can't do as much harm.Microsoft also points out that: "This vulnerability is more difficult to exploit successfully if Data Execution Protection (DEP) is enabled for Internet Explorer." Microsoft has a one-clickFix Itthat enables users to turn DEP on, if their PC has the feature.Presumably Microsoft will release a patch, but it remains to be seen whether it will make it in time for next month's Patch Tuesday on 8 December or release it as an out-of-cycle update once it has been tested.Symantec noted: "The exploit currently exhibits signs of poor reliability, but we expect that a fully-functional reliable exploit will be available in the near future."Some bad guys deploying a reliable version of exploit on a few prime sites would certainly get people's attention.
You thought the cultural imports ended with having kids from the local estate wander round knocking at the door saying "Trickertreat?" and snuffling? (I find replying "I'll have a treat please" usually does the trick.) No - there's more.Black Fridayis a "tradition" in the US, aimed at boosting retail spending even more than it usually is at the end of the year by having a day on which people fattened from theirThanksgiving celebrationsthe day before can storm stores (last year, a door guard at Wal-Martdiedas the crowds tried to get through at the opening).Black Friday is a bit like the post-Christmas sales, except held before Christmas; and it's usually distinguished by low prices (aka "deep discounts") to attract the customers, for one day only.Apple participates in the fun over in the US. But now, according to the mailout, it's doing it in the UK as well. According to the promo mail we just received, it will be offering lower prices. (We say "will" because we couldn't see any difference between the prices on themy UK promo linkand thenormal UK Apple store.)It says in the email:Prices are only for 27/11/2009. Some products are not available in all countries. Prices and product specifications are subject to change.Shopping event is available at the Apple Online Store and 0800 048 0408 only on 27 November from 00:01 to 23:59 GMT. Selected offers also available at UK Apple Retail Stores; not all sale products available in all stores. Sale prices are limited to stock on hand and while supplies last.Fun, no? Let us know if there are other American companies doing the same thing in the UK.
It spread across the web like a wildfire: Google chief Eric Schmidt visited Baghdad today. Yes, just like a statesman. He attended a ceremony with the US Ambassador to Iraq, Christopher Hill, at Iraq's national museum, where he announced that the search giant would post photographs of the museum's ancient treasures on the net early next year.The museum - which hosts artefacts from Babylonian, Assyrian and Sumerian cultures - hit the headlines when it was looted in April 2003 during the Iraq war. Its director, Amira Edan, estimates that only around 5,000 of the 15,000 artefacts taken have been recovered so far.The US has been criticised for not using troops to protect the museum and other cultural institutions with their troops. Now Google has taken more than 14,000 pictures of the treasures to be put online. That is good. Due to security concerns the artefacts of the cradle of civilisation have been largely closed to the public, even after the museum opened earlier this year. But it leaves a strange feeling as well, with private company Google once again serving a more public interest.
The chief executive of the Office of Fair Trading said today that there was no case for the regulator to challenge the dominance of search giant Google.John Fingleton said there was no evidence that Google was bad for consumers, arguing it had reached its leading position in the UK market legitimately."Where a company has achieved that position by superior innovation, foresight and better targeting of customers, we're very wary of intervening," he told MPs on the Commons culture, media and sport select committee."Thus far, while lots of people have talked to us about harm to competitors, nobody has articulated to us harm to customers or related companies in this market," Fingleton added."Nobody has brought us a good, convincing case around this type of issues. We see a lot of customers benefit from what's happening in this marketplace from very high innovation – it's good for the British economy. We don't want to send a negative signal about that."He said it was unlikely that any concerns about Google's size in the UK would be viewed in isolation from regulators in Europe and the US, where concerns about the company's activities had concentrated on consumer protection and privacy.His remarks come asRupert Murdoch's News Corporation tries to forge an alliance with Microsoftto combat Google, which Murdoch has accused of "stealing" his content.Murdoch has threatened to take content from his newspapers, which include the Sun, the Times and the New York Post, off Google's search engine index and behind a paywall.The BBC today ruled out charging for its website, emphasising its commitment to providing free access to online news.Fingleton also told MPs the OFT was surprised not to have been dealing with mergers between "failing firms" that had run into trouble in the recession over the past year."This time last year with the financial crisis, we anticipated we would see failing firm mergers. It has been the dog that has not barked," he said. "We haven't seen the incidence of failing firm mergers that we have seen from previous downturns."Fingleton and his opposite number at media regulator Ofcom, Ed Richards, told MPs they did not have any powers to handle complaints from local newspapers about councils launching taxpayer-funded papers and news-sheets."The extent to which this is really harmful in the market is something we have struggled to understand," Fingleton said.He contrasted the £3bn value of the local newspaper market with £50m of local authority expenditure on their newspapers."There's an issue about what local authorities are doing in this space. It's not as big an issue as the internet and the decline generally facing newspapers," he added."There may very well be a problem in terms of harm to the democratic process. We would have to look at whether readers are harmed or advertisers are harmed – it seems here the harm is to competitors."Fingleton said the OFT would have to have evidence that local authorities were able to monopolise local markets and raise prices as a result.Asked by Adrian Sanders MP about the danger of councils using such newspapers to peddle propaganda, Fingleton replied: "That's not a competition issue – that's an issue about what local authorities are doing.Richards admitted there was a gap in the supervision of council papers: "We have no remit on that. The OFT has no remit on that. There's a lacuna."If there's a serious issue from the perspective of the use of taxpayers' money and the consequences for independent journalism in any given locality, it's something parliament has to decide what it wants to do about. Either the government needs to give guidance or get somebody responsible to look at it."Fingleton added: "It can be a very efficient way of reaching a target audience rather than advertising through third-party publications. There's a darker side, whether this is about subverting the process of accountability and so forth but it's unlikely to show up as a breach of competition law."He suggested any reform should be made at national level rather than at "196 local levels".Richards also brushed off the threats to Ofcom's role made by the Conservative party, which has vowed to curb its powers.Tory leader David Cameron singled out Ofcomin a speech in July promising a cull of quangos."Nobody is going to abolish Ofcom. If you did that you would have to get somebody else to do what we do. There's an interesting debate we're very comfortable to be part of," Richards said."There are activities we do that somebody is going to have to do. If we were doing things we didn't have to, we would stop doing them tomorrow. There's always uncertainty and there's going to be more uncertainty in the period before and after an election. Frankly, we live with that."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
First AOL released a static picture of its new brand identity,which commentators enjoyed, but perhaps not in the way it was intended. Now they have published the full animated version, which is meant to give the company a confident image. And what do we get?Apart from the lower case "o", "l" and a dot, we get some mainstream pop music that won't annoy anyone to much, some splashed-around colours, a headbanger, a paperboard camera, someone skating through the picture, a pink horse that gets smashed and some breakdancers. Yay.You ask me what this means? It is supposed to symbolise the dynamic of AOL's content. Or as Sam Wilson, the creative director at Wolff Olins New York, said: "The constantly changing images behind the logo are also intended to elicit surprise."Use full screen for the real impact and then tell us, what do you think of it? Should we give AOL a chance?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
&bull; Remember when we noted how Wikipedia had passed the mark of 3m articles in English? Well, from there things are going downhill a bit. Editors are leaving, theWall Street Journal points out(andSilicon Valley Insider has a chartwhich shows thousands having left over the past year, with the number accelerating).Is Wikipedia worried? The WSJ says:Executives at the Wikimedia Foundation, which finances and oversees the nonprofit venture, acknowledge the declines, but believe they can continue to build a useful encyclopedia with a smaller pool of contributors. "We need sufficient people to do the work that needs to be done," says Sue Gardner, executive director of the foundation. "But the purpose of the project is not participation."&bull; Oh, the WSJ and those Murdoch papers... well, they might be about to do an exclusive deal, blocking Google and allowing only Microsoft to index their content. Most likely date for it to happen? July 1 2010. Why? That's when the contract with Google to provide search for MySpace (another News International property) runs out. Morehere.&bull; A thought from gamesblogger Jack Arnott: "Tweets are quite a lot like farts. Inherently ephemeral. Most people do 3 or 4 a day. People don't tend to talk about them in polite company".You want to know where he said it. Um..On Twitter.&bull; Finally, enjoy this video of a meteor lighting up the night sky over Utah at the weekend. Fabulous.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday 26 November 2009Paying tribute to Bill Cull as the man who perfected the constant velocity joint that made the Mini's design work, we went too far in saying his device transferred power from engine to wheels "through [an angle of] nearly 90 degrees". The angle was typically up to 48 degrees, occasionally a little more.Finally, as the candles gutter on this year's 50th birthday cake for the Mini, tribute is being paid to  the man who actually made the little car go.Not Sir Alec Issigonis, who died festooned with awards for his revolutionary design, but an unsung Yorkshire engineer who came to the rescue when it wouldn't work. He was Bill Cull, perfector of a universal joint of great beauty, even to those of  us who failed physics-with-chemistry O-level. Cramming steel rods, ball-bearings and grooves into a tight metal ball,  it transferred power from the Mini's engine through nearly 90 degrees to the car's Lilliput-size front wheels."Nothing else worked," says Bob Grice, apprentice of the year at Longbridge in the Mini's launch year, 1959. "Everything broke, including a superjoint licensed from Porsche." The secret Mini team were tearing their hair out when a patent trawl – the 1950s equivalent of Google – unearthed Cull.The joints had previously had a tiny run as a secret component in Royal Navy submarine periscopes. They worked steadfastly on all 5,387,862 cars, including the Mini-trac, a one-off with caterpillar tracks used by Australian scientists in Antarctica which was built in a workshop in the Melbourne suburb of Sunshine.Plans are now afoot to fix a plaque to a similar lock-up building in Shipley, near Bradford, where Cull ran his own business after leaving the local Scott motorbike company. His previous designs included Scott's Flying Squirrel, an adapted engine that powered the 1930s kit plane The Flying Flea, a sort of aerial Mini that proved too dangerous to make the commercial big time.A modest man, absorbed in experiments until he died in his 90s, Cull never challenged the man nicknamed "Arragonis" for his place in history, and others were mostly too busy to push on his behalf. An exception  is a retired colleague, Peter Wheeler, who fought successfully for Cull to be given his company Mini when he retired. "For goodness sake," he told penny-pinching colleagues who wanted to keep the car. "If it wasn't for this man, none of you would have jobs."Cull's story is told for the first time in A Mini Adventure by Martin Wainwright, published this month by Aurum Press.
Apple's App Store? It's "A store [that] for the most part people can trust", according to Phil Schiller, the company's veep of marketing and all-around amusing guy on the front bench at Apple.In aninterview with ArikHessendahlHesseldahl of BusinessWeek, Schiller explains that "you and your family and friends can download applications from the store, and for the most part they do what you'd expect, and they get onto your phone and you get billed appropriately, and it all just works."In that, Schiller is absolutely correct. There arerogue worms which infect jailbroken iPhones[cracked so they can work on any networkandany app can be installed; this is not the same as those which have been sold from semi-authorised resellers] and, if you haven't changed the root password, will access your private history and text messages and might divert you to phishing or malware sites. Which is suddenly a good reason not to jailbreak your iPhone.Schiller compares Apple's role to that of a retailer determining which products line store shelves. "Whatever your favorite retailer is, of course they care about the quality of products they offer," he says. "We review the applications to make sure they work as the customers expect them to work when they download them."With 100,000 applications on the store, and about 10% getting turned back, and only 1% of the returned ones have some outlying problem. (Apparently those which might help you cheat at a casino aren't allowed. Those which improve your game are OK. Who knew Apple had created such a moral universe?)Schiller acknowledges that you don't have to be over-zealous about the potential illegal use of trademarks - especially Apple's own. After all, it's appearing on Apple's own product. That was the problem for Rogue Amoeba, the Apple software developer which had seen its non-trademark-infringing sound appget held up.Schiller tells BusinessWeek:"We need to delineate something that might confuse the customer and be an inappropriate use of a trademark from something that's just referring to a product for the sake of compatibility," he says. "We're trying to learn and expand the rules to make it fair for everyone."And hey! Rogue Amoeba's app hasnow been approved. It seems Phil Schiller might have some heft at Apple after all.(Update: corrected spelling of Arik Hesseldahl's surname. Apologies for the error.)
Eagle-eyed Gamesblog regulars may have spotted that we have a new regular contributor on the site - and like a poor dinner party host, I've neglected to provide a formal introduction. So, Gamesblog readers, this is Jack Arnott, Jack, these are the Gamesblog readers.Unlike me, Greg and Aleks (sob!), Mr Arnott is a full-time Guardian employee, coming to us from the world ofactual news. He's a lifelong gamer, but is not a jaded old games hack like me and Greg, so will bring a fresh pair of eyes to the subject matter.As for his gaming tastes: "My favourite console was probably my SNES, favourite game: A Link to the Past or FFVII. At the moment I'm playing an Evo 2010 Master League, finding it a bit frustrating, and FFVII Crisis Core on the PSP. I like RPGs and football games best."But of course, the question on the lips of all Gamesblog veterans will concern our new writer's weapon of choice in the event of a zombie apocalypse. "Perhaps a paint can at the top of the stairs like in Home Alone," he ventures.Hmm, ineffective, but nostalgic... Jack, you'll fit right in here...
World of Warcraft, the world's most popular multiplayer online game, is celebrating its five-year birthday. The game first saw the light of day on 23 November  2004.When the game was first launched, it was seen as a big risk for its makers Blizzard, who had enjoyed previous success with games such as Starcraft and Diablo. The gamble looks to have paid off, however, as the game now boasts over 12 million subscribers from around the world.The game lets players control avatars such as orcs, elves, or even the undead, through a vast virtual fantasy world called Azeroth.Players can form in-game guilds, or band together to attempt dungeons known as 'instances' in order to obtain better equipment for their characters.Its popularity has spawned alucrative industry in China, where players known as 'farmers' play constantly, in order to obtain in-game gold. This is then sold for real money to players, though the practice is strictly against the terms and conditions of the game, and could result in players being banned.Concerns have been raised over World of Warcraft's addictive qualities. Real-life divorceshave resulted from some players' addictions, and some have expressed reservations about the amount of time players have spent in special events known as 'raids'.There have been two expansions since its launch - the Burning Crusade, which introduced a new area called Outland, and last year's the Wrath of the Lich King. Players queued through the night to buy the latest expansion, which brought the new continent of Northrend and introduced the new class of Death Knight.Blizzard announced at BlizzCon, theannual Warcraft convention, that the next expansion will be calledCataclysm. Whole areas of the original game's continents are to be changed forever after the emergence of the Dragon Aspect Deathwing.The anniversary is being marked within the game, with players being presented with a special pet called Onyxia Brood Whelping, and Blizzard is said to be planning other ways to mark the milestone.
It's a sign of the PC's diminishing influence that Sims 3 was not the all conquering force it had been in previous years. Which is a pity, because World Adventures is an original and inventive expansion pack that makes previous efforts seem decidedly lazy.The idea is to take your Sim around the world on a series of extended holidays, stocking up on new items, costumes and furniture to match your new surroundings – hardly surprising, perhaps, given the glorified shop window the series has become in recent years. What is more unexpected is how much new gameplay has been included this time round.As you'd expect from the title, the  emphasis is on exploration and puzzle solving, with China, Egypt and France being the key locations each with their own distinctive style and challenges. When you touch down in each location you can set about your usual pursuits of eating, shopping and socialising. Indigenous shops come packed with eclectic new items, some of which can be useful in the next part of the game – adventuring.Each location has a bulletin board where you can pick up a variety of adventure-based tasks. These could be retrieving objects scattered around the landscape or negotiating tombs and caves filled with hazards and traps. There's also two new skills to learn; martial arts and, bizarrely, nectar-making, which helps raise the mood of other characters, provided you make a decent plonk as a result. The adventure elements, though initially incongruous, are particularly welcome, with genuine thought and skill involved as the game takes a more RPG-like influence in how you use inventory items to survive the challenge. Naturally, there are rewards for completing these tasks, including Visa points to extend your stay. However, if you fail there are penalties too – most notably a mummy's curse that sees you returning as a mummy (complete with undead social activities!) if you can't cure your malady in time. Taking photographs of particular locations or items, earns you rewards and is a skill you can upgrade as the game progresses – a gentle twist on the usual arcade adventure trick of hunting for bonus icons.World Adventures is easily the best add-on we've seen for The Sims and one that does more than just add new items to purchase. Yes, you're stuck with the usual finicky movement and limited interaction, but it does add something new to a game that appealed more to escapists and shopaholics than genuine gamers before. At times, it has an almost Shenmue look and feel to it, perhaps heralding a very different kind of Sims 4.
Yesterday AOL provided us witha preview of its coming up new brand identityas the official spinout from Time Warner at December 10 comes near. Is shows a plain text logo in front of changing pictures like a weird staring at you goldfish to a ping floating brain and a rock-star hand symbol. The new logo that replaces the running man symbolises the ever-changing content. It was created by the brand consultancy Wolff Olins.CEO Tim Armstrongtold paidContent in an interview"...it's going to be very, very, very inexpensive because we're focused on just improving the products and services. I would say the marketing budget is the budget we're using on product development and the changes we're making." Maybe that wasn't such a good idea.The new brand identity replaces the letters AOL with “Aol.” - complete with a periodHere are some reaction to the new logo.Florian Schmitt ofthe London based design agency Hi-Res!: "I like the idea of changing and adaptive logos, but this is such a literal and clichéed attempt at it. I happen to know that they had very little time to finish this, but even so, this is poor. It's literally the first thing you would do as a moodboard and the first thing you would put in the trash as well."Om Malik oftechnology site GigaOM: "It is ambiguous at best, and as sexy as the obese, shapeless humans living on Axiom, the flagship of the BnL fleet in Pixar movie 'WALL-E.'"Duncan Rileyof the news site inquisitrabout the ever changing images: "...if you think that sounds like drugs at play, you're not the only one thinking that."Oliver Reichnestein,creative director of Tokyo based design agency Information Architects Inc.: "Radical identity changes usually suggest that there is something wrong with the company. Well, we all know what's wrong with AOL. Their original business (Internet access) is obsolete. Dropping all visual keys and forcing the logo to a negative appearance on random images surely is a drastic measure. If the goal of the redesign was to illustrate how the company is slowly vanishing from the fast changing digital surface of the planet, I'd say: Job well done."What do you think about it? Have your say in the comments.
The war of the search engines enters a new phase as Microsoft considers paying publishers to put their content on its search enging Bing - presumably in the hope they will do as Rupert Murdoch has suggested and remove it from Google. But how much would this actually hurt Google?A recent German survey tried to determine what the effect on Google would be if most of the country's publishers - with their nearly 1,000 domains - removed their content from the search engine. The 148 publishers signed a declaration in Hamburg as a protest against what they saw as being financially exploited. But would the first 10 search results on the German Google site look different? Would German Google be empty?A search on German Google, based on a survey using more than 1 million keywords, showed that on average 5% of the top 10 results came from the German news organisations - and this is with publishers co-operating with Google. So the economic effect of a withdrawal would be negligible. The main search results would be largely unaffected, and Google News carries no advertisements.Only 5% of the first 10 Google results relate to content of German publishersFinancially, then, Google doesn't depend on the publishers' content. "In comparison, if you detracted Wikipedia from the results, 13% of the number one results would be gone," said Christoph Burseg, the CEO of TRG, the research company that ran the survey.Microsoft may not be about to dent Google's revenue – but making quality news on Google harder to find would certainly hurt the search engine's image.Would you use Google if you knew you couldn't find stories from certain - or even all- news organisations? Have your say in the comments(ViaJeff Jarvis,The Reach Group)
Well, what a week that was. Not last week, of course - we'll get to that eventually, I'm sure. No, the weekbeforelast - the one with the Modern Warfare 2 launch in it. You remember? Sainsburys at eight in the morning? Shooting innocent people in the airport? All coming back now is it?To celebrate the devastating effect this launch had on the cultural diversity of the Chatterbox, Beardofbees has lent his summation of the week an apocalyptic tone. We are all, it seems, now living in the nuclear winter of the MF2 launch, a grim landscape populated by haunted-eyed gamers in their pants, moaning about perks and care packages.There was, still time, though, for some Dragon's Age chatter, worries about state-sanctioned mass grief, the science of yawning, and what it is that Dizzyisanegg keeps in his pocket to attract cats...Apocalypse indeed......Transmission source: Beard of BeesDate of transmission: November 13Subject: Chatterbox comms...We have only pieces of information about what happened. What we do know is this. It was Monday the 9th of November. Things were different back then. The gamesbloggers rolled up with mouths full of chatter about weekend games of FIFA, Pro Evo Soccer, Uncharted and even old classics like STALKER. How we laugh now to remember those times, when people actually played and talked about other games. Because on Tuesday the 10th of November, an agency known only as Infinity Ward released Modern Warfare 2, and everything changed.For the moment, then, let us cast our minds back to that calm before the storm and fondly remember the simple pleasures: the gamesblogger PES league fixtures; whether Dragon Age was worth buying on a console rather than PC; the decision of blogger Crispycrumb to share his home with an actual girl; and why the Guardian commenting feature still refused to work properly. Mysterious blank posts were coming through thick and fast. "Anyone else tempted to start recommending all of these," asked onedaveofmany, "or is it just me?"However, scarcely was the week underway when the looming shadow of Modern Warfare 2 began to obscure all notion of discussing anything else. Ever. Rumour had it that Sainburys would be piling high and selling cheap; credit goes to foolsgold for the early spot on this bargainous nugget. This quickly instigated a debate about where best to obtain the game, the chatterboxers planning all sorts of elaborate schemes involving returning pre-orders and touring the supermarkets at the crack of dawn. It's truly a turning point when you realise that those individuals, the ones you see on news reports being mocked by a sarcastic reporter for queuing up for the latest computer game, are actually you and your peers.Combating this revelation with a brief episode of maturity, the Gamesblog pondered the economics at work here. Limni pointed out that the supermarket pricing strategies were loss-making, and designed mainly to harm their specialist competitors. "It's a drop in the ocean to a supermarket chain, but losing their release-day sales of a title like MW2 will significantly dent GAME's bottom line," he concluded. Supersmashin was on hand to offer the counter-argument: "Sainsbury's are indeed selling it for £26," he confirmed. "Kerching!"Labour MP Tom Watson raised himself instantly to hero status amongst gamers as news broke late in the day that he had stood up to fellow MP, anti-violent-games campaigner, and general all-around buffoon Keith Vaz in Parliament. The media frenzy around this and the other launch headlines inevitably eased us into Tuesday where it was like an early Christmas for the gamesbloggers. Excited stories were shared of morning purchases of Modern Warfare 2 and, predictably, this set the tone of the chat for the rest of the day."As I have no interest in the Call of Duty games," said Riadsala as the juggernaut got underway, "I think I'll sit today's blog out." With hindsight, perhaps writing off the whole week would have been more sensible. Talk was dominated by who'd bought the game, how much money had changed hands, when they would get together to play multiplayer matches, and how one could go about joining the gamesblog Modern Warfare clan. "There is something you have to do," explained cameroon95 darkly, "and it involves me wearing a pig mask."Painful as it is to recognise that shopping was the most exciting thing discussed by the Gamesblog that fateful morning, if we must go down this route then Uncle3en takes the prize with his tale of arriving at the supermarket till with nothing in his basket but a copy of Modern Warfare 2, two packets of tobacco and some rizlas. At seven in the morning. Meeting a jealous stare from the young man behind the counter with the explanation that he was off work until Friday no doubt helped spread the joy in the checkout aisles immensely.As if retail experiences weren't an exciting enough topic of conversation, the blog soon raised a fresh and innovative new query to chew over: what's better, the Xbox 360 or the Playstation 3? Sadly, a friendly and balanced discussion erupted, the gamesbloggers coming together in a frenzy of mild-mannered and amiable contention. "I am very disappointed," chastised onedaveofmany, "that this has once again sunk into a rational debate about the genuine merits of both systems as providers of home entertainment. Where are the fanboys?"Into Wednesday and the day after the MW2 release, where the instant topic for morning conversation was, of course, the human rights and freedom of speech abuses currently suffered by the people of China. Oh, who are we kidding? It was a frothy-mouthed babble of wargame word-slinging as expected. A major topic was the controversial airport level of the game, which sets players among a group of terrorists conducting an attack on innocents in the terminal. "Joined in with the massacre and outdid Markov by using grenades," enthused one gamesblogger, but then what did we expect from a poster named Jihad? MI6 have logged the comments and are on the way for a chat, no doubt.Trying to fight the Modern Warfare talk, Dragon Age did what it could. The gamesbloggers are, it seems, generally enjoying Bioware's latest with gusto. General opinion seems to be that this is a nicely written and carefully plotted game, with excellent characterisation and mature dialogue. More or less the polar opposite of MW2, then.The date being the 11th November, a minute's silence was observed around the country that morning in memory of our fallen war heroes. Gamesblog being Gamesblog, of course, this didn't happen before a spirited argument about the justifications for this practice was fought across the comment boxes. Are we as a nation becoming over-sentimental and is this fueled by the media? Is it used by the government to help reduce opposition to conflict overseas? And is it appropriate to levy these suspicions on a day that is about remembering the fallen and not the political reasons for war?None of these questions were a concern for TonyHayers, who had more zoological issues to tackle. "Pelicans are savages. Vomiting out half-digested, still alive birds is one of the most disgusting things I have ever seen," he offered, followed by the underwhelming (if accurate) condemnation: "Animals."Joining in with this brave attempt to derail the Modern Warfare 2 chat as the week sped on, RobLindsay posted his thoughts on the entire 2010 BBC2 programme line-up, CBPodge asked about the physiological and social theories on why we yawn, and in a simple act of desperation EnglishRed posted three blank comments in a row. None of these stratagems did the trick however, and we rumbled into Thursday unabashed.As we did so, a few cautionary tales began to surface regarding the single-player campaign of Modern Warfare 2. "Distinctly underwhelmed" said EnglishRed; "The story is a disgrace" offered FerrisSaved; and "I seem to have lost the ability to drink and have spilled tea down my shirt twice," explained OfficePest, though it wasn't clear whether this was related to the game at all. Either way, it transpired that Infinity Ward's tale of conflict and betrayal had to be approached with a caveat – the plot is less well-rounded than the menu at a Kate Moss dinner party. Nonetheless a general spirit of enthusiasm for the title prevailed, especially as the gamesbloggers began to move over to the glorious multiplayer portion of the game. Talk of perks and weapon unlocks abounded.A determined few gamesbloggers tried to resist the prevailing chat and a strong rival for conversation was Demon's Souls, a Playstation 3 exclusive of extraordinary popularity given that it hasn't even been released in Europe yet. Talk of Tower Knights, falling through holes, hunting for keys, and fire resistance washed over the blog and between this and the ongoing Modern Warfare babble, poor Lazybones' plea for posture advice—"I'm feeling slumped; like a bipedal tortoise", he explained—almost went unnoticed. Luckily a few generous posters came to his aid: PhilosopherK1ng suggesting "Stretching", "More Stretching" and "Yoga at Work"; TonyHayers chiming in from the seventies with "Lie on the floor and get a chick in high heels to walk on your spine"; and some elegant but simple advice coming from Crispycrumb in the form of "Sit up straight."There was also a great deal of chat around "Games of the Year", or even "Games of the Decade" lists, and many carefully considered Top 10s were posted. However, tallying up all such results in addition to compiling a weekly Best-of being the ludicrous concept that it is, we find ourselves being transported past all these by the magic of narrative authority to the closing hours of the week, where an energetic debate ona thread discussing morality in computer gamesthreatened to rival the Chatterbox for weight of comments.Aside from this, and the predictable Modern Warfare 2 chat, the gamesbloggers mused over whether Spurs goalie Carlo Cudicini would continue to receive wages after being injured whilst motorcycling, something his contract expressly prohibited. Taking the practical approach, eMTG pointed out that it's, "not like he's on the breadline is it?", trusting in jealousy from the working classes to add force to his argument.As the day ticked along, Dizzyisanegg tried to come to terms with a self-discovery: "Demon's Souls is turning me into a Fantasy loving spod," he confessed, and CompanyCalls shared a story about needing a replacement for a bicycle puncture before work. "I was complaining to the guy in Evans about the rising cost of bike tyres and he simply said 'Inflation'."Finally as the week drew to a close, the chatterboxers looked back on what they had discussed (Modern Warfare 2), what they would discuss the week after (Modern Warfare 2) and what they planned to play during their two days of weekend freedom (Modern Warfare 2). Starting to realise what was happening, they searched desperately for news of something, anything, that would restore their faith in the continued existence of, you know, other games, and a sign that one day the spell would be broken. So it was that HiddenAway arrived like an Internet messiah, offering tales of Final Fantasy 13 and a March 2010 release date. As the gamesbloggers' eyes lit up at the news, however, the prophet had one further addition to make. "Oh, and Leona Lewis will be the one doing the theme song", he said. "It's called My Hands."That was when we knew all other gaming was dead. Long live Infinity Ward.Quotes of the Week"Sitting around in my undercrackers at 3am, drunk, playing games doesn't seem so bad now. I just need to do it at home instead of the 24hr Tesco."SuperSmashin describes the joys, and pitfalls, of a bachelor lifestyle."I used to know a lad who was in the Muslims and he worked as a driving instructor - The only difference I remember is that he had a glow in the dark Mosque air freshner on his dashboard"Alfienoakes embraces multi-culturalism with flair."I read once that cats are more likely to like you if they see you yawn - it gives them an affinity with you, shared experience or something. I keep bacon in my pockets too, that seems to help."Dizzyisanegg finally explains that distinctive aroma.
The "iPhone as games machine" hype is clearly justified.Dungeon Hunteris just the latest – and rather substantial – gaming treat I've enjoyed on Apple's gadget. But in amongst all this noise it's easy to forget about Sony's PSP. The Go may have got off to a slow start but the last month has seen two very welcome PSP releases –Little Big PlanetandJak and Daxter: The Last Frontier.Theoriginal Jak and Daxterwas a gorgeous and rewarding platform adventure that got the right balance between challenge and universal appeal. In many ways it was the Mario game the Playstation never had.  It all went horribly horribly wrong in the sequels though. For some reason – probably due to a marketing edict that games needed to be edgier post GTA III – the charm of the original was replaced by a darker setting. The tightly honed action was replaced by free-roaming and the series became an also-ran. Thankfully The Last Frontier sees a return to the original vision and is fantastic return to form for the series.The action is fairly standard platform stuff – think ledges, double jumps etc – but also throws in a stack of interesting weaponry. Jak gets a pile of upgradable abilities to play with and using them in the right situation is key to progress.  The other main gameplay feature is air combat. Traditionalists may grumble about the inclusion of this and they'd have a point – there really is too much of it here. Not that it isn't enjoyable in small doses mind. The controls are responsive and the dogfights satisfying. But the main fun is down on the ground, with numerous moments bringing back happy memories of The Precursor Legacy.  Heck, it's even better than Daxter'sexcellent solo PSPgame from 2006.The other recent PSP biggie is LittleBigPlanet. As you probably know LBP was released last year for the PS3 to general critical acclaim.  Now we have an excellent miniaturisation of the gorgeous PS3 platform game/creative tool.Some compromises have been made. The Sackboy character is less iconic on the smaller screen while the graphics are understandably rougher around the edges. But the charm of the original game still comes through and in many ways this is the more playable game. The controls are tighter for a start. Also the checkpoints seem more lenient – the game is still a challenge though.Like the PS3 original, playing the game is only apart of the appeal. Creating your own levels is where the potential of the game really takes off. However, like the PS3 version, it takes a long time and lot of skill to create anything even half decent. Or maybe I'm just lazy? The creation tools for the PSP version make the process fairly straightforward for the committed but it still feels a little overwhelming, especially when you think of the time-constricted chunks normally associated with handheld gaming. Luckily then the ability to download user made levels is easy and as addictive as the original. There is no multiplayer but otherwise this is a perfect example of how to port a PS3 game to the PSP.So there you go – two decent platform games in one month and the PSP release schedule back on form. What do you think then? Pleased that Jak and Daxter are back? Tempted by LBP? Or just too busy on the iPhone or DS?
Monday's "did you play Assassin's Creed 2" version of Chatterbox
For some time you've been watching the progress of a notorious - but anonymous - blogger who has been writing posts that have ridiculed and embarrassed organisations you don't like, with exposes of bad corporate behaviour - toxic waste dumping, featherbedding, that sort of thingIn return there have been threats of libel proceedings and worse made against him - or is it her? - but they come to nothing because their tracks are covered too well. You've been rather enjoying the spectacle. Free speech is such a gift.As it happens, you have suspicions about who it is because of certain patterns of words, and a few details around this person (the pattern of posting, some personal details they seem to know about their targets). In fact, you have met the person you suspect a few times socially. But you've never had a reason to confirm if they're the Mystery Blogger.Until today: you go to their blog to find a vituperative attack on your organisation, your department and you (with your name): it's claiming just the same sort of bad behaviour as others.You're certain that it's untrue, but search engines won't wipe these claims from their caches for the next time you're seeking a job.Do you use your knowledge and suspicions to try to expose the blogger - which might end that free speech you've so enjoyed before? Or laugh it off and await the next attack on someone else? Or something else?What do you do?
BMW Z4£32,660MILES PER GALLON: 33.2CO2PER KM: 199 GRAMSGOOD FOR: LANDSCAPESBAD FOR: PORTRAITSWhen BMW launched its new Z4 earlier this year, the latest in a long and illustrious line of two-seat roadsters, the advert featured a car spinning through paint and leaving great curls and splatters of colour across a perfectly white warehouse floor. It was Jackson Pollock on a vast scale, and the idea was not intended to put you in mind of a boy racer off his face on ketamine who'd broken into a paint factory to spin multicoloured donuts in his dad's new motor, but to convey the fact that its Z4 is a masterpiece, a work of art. And, to my eye at least, it is. Long nosed and vented, it has undulating panels which lead your eye along its sculpted flanks to that abrupt, chopped-off rear. It lives up to its nickname – "the land shark" – and from the front, its vast grille and hooded lamps give it a menacing presence. If Damien Hirst pickled and suspended it in a glass box, he'd really be on to something…For the past 15 years or so, the aesthetic direction BMW has taken has been the work of the American designer Chris Bangle – Mr Bungle, to his many detractors. His brief was to breathe life into a model range that was as conservative as a grey woollen suit. The iconic BMW design cues – the round headlights, the kidney-dish grille, the Hofmeister kink (that's the curved corner of the rear window, not a sexual peccadillo involving bears) – hadn't changed for years, but the engines under them certainly had. There's nothing conservative about an in-line six-cylinder engine. And so Bangle got to work. The critics queued up to take pot shots, but customers liked them. And at least you couldn't accuse BMW of being conservative any more.The Z4 is one of the last projects Bangle worked on before he left BMW last February. Maybe we've finally grown into Bangle's approach, but the Z4 wears its chiselled features as if born to a life of haughty disdain. It's also the first BMW to come with a two-piece, electrohydraulically operated folding hard-top roof that can be raised or lowered in 20 seconds. (Isn't it curious that makers of these roofs always bang on about how long they take to open? Would you be put off purchasing the car if it took 23 seconds?) The roadster is also the first to be offered with Adaptive M Suspension, which raises and lowers the car depending on the type of drive you select. I ignored "Sport+" and stuck it in "Comfort", but even there the throaty 3-litre engine, combined with the immaculate seven-speed auto gearbox, was intoxicating.The Z4 seems to sum up where BMW is at the moment: mature, confident and at the top of its game. It was theWhich?Best Car Manufacturer of 2009 and was named the most sustainable car company in the world for the fourth consecutive year by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). Though that accolade has probably got more to do with the German marque's 118d – which was named the World Green Car of the Year in 2008.To round off my week, I took an early morning drive to the coast. Autumn mists, frosted fields, the roof down, and a car made for driving – a work of art in any colour.★martin.love@observer.co.uk
LIKE MANY people in his business, the technology publisher Tim O'Reilly is a heavy user of the Twitter microblogging service. He also has a Facebook account. To save effort, he has arranged things so that his Twitter posts are automatically forwarded to Facebook where they are transformed into "status updates".So far, so good; many of us do the same. But O'Reilly is a proper techie, which means many of his tweets are links to web pages containing interesting or useful information he has come upon in his daily browsing. One day recently, a friend of his noticed that something strange was happening to those links: when they left Twitter they were clickable links, but when they arrived in Facebook they were just plain text. In other words, they were no longer clickable. To follow them one had to copy and paste them into a browser window.This led to a brief outbreak of conspiracy theorising. Was the de-linking a deliberate tactic by Facebook to make it more difficult for its subscribers to venture into the bad, bad web? To suspect such a conspiracy was not irrational: Facebook has laboured to create a socially-inclusive, all-encompassing corner of cyberspace. The ultimate goal seemed to be to build a social networking site providing everything its subscribers needed: a walled garden, in fact.It seems that the de-linking of Twitter posts was the product of a bug rather than of a sinister design. But suspicions remain, because common sense, not to mention bitter experience, tells us that the company that voluntarily turns its back on the prospect of monopolistic power has yet to be incorporated.There was a delicious irony in the fact that it was the de-linking of the O'Reilly Twitterstream that alerted the world to the Facebook bug because he has been banging on for years about the threats posed by large, powerful internet operations. Like, er … Facebook.He sees two possible models for the evolution of the network. The first is the scenario of "one ring to rule them all", the winner-takes-all model we had when Microsoft ruled the world, a world that "promises simplicity and ease of use, but ends up diminishing user and developer choice". The second model is a network of "small pieces loosely joined … admittedly less polished, less controlled, but one that is profoundly generative of new innovations because anyone can bring new ideas to the market without having to ask permission of anyone".With the rise of the network and the decline of Microsoft's power, we thought we had escaped the first nightmare. But O'Reilly now thinks we may be blundering into something even worse – a networked world dominated by the "natural monopolies" created by Web 2.0 network effects, the phenomenon whereby the value of a network increases rapidly as the number of its users grows.His argument is that since Web 2.0 services get better the more people use them, so they have a natural tendency towards monopolistic specialisation. So he thinks we're headed for "a world with one dominant search engine, one dominant online encyclopedia, one dominant online retailer, one dominant auction site, one dominant online classified site, and we've been readying ourselves for one dominant social network".It's difficult to argue with this analysis. And each of the network's local monopolies is doing everything it can to keep us inside its walled garden. Google executives, for example, constantly blather on about how they value the "open" internet, freedom of choice etc, while at the same time frantically constructing an online environment which provides a cornucopia of services sufficiently rich to ensure that subscribers need never leave the Google embrace. The same is true of Amazon, Facebook and eBay.But there is a salutary message for would-be monopolists: the story of AOL, which also thought it could build a megabusiness by keeping its subscribers inside a wall. At the height of its hubris, it "merged" with Time Warner, then went into freefall. In about a month, it will be cut loose from the media giant  and is engaging in savage job cuts to give it a chance of surviving. CEO Tim Armstrong is even forgoing his $1.5m bonus for 2009. Amid the wreckage of AOL's internet strategy, he might recall the inscription on Tolkien's Ring: "One Ring to rule them all, One Ring to find them, One Ring to bring them all and in the darkness bind them."
MySpace has settled a year-long row with independent record companies with a landmark deal that will allow artists including Arctic Monkeys, Radiohead and Vampire Weekend to sell tracks on the social networking site's music service.MySpace Music launched in the US last year, recently expanded into Australia and New Zealand and plans to roll out in the UK soon. But the launch of the service was marred by anger from the largest independent record labels, which accused News Corp-owned MySpace of leaving them out in the cold.The four majors that signed up to the new service – Sony, Universal, Warner and EMI – all received an equity stake in the venture. But Merlin, an agency representing independents around the world, complained the smaller labels were not offered comparable terms.Other artists represented by Merlin's member labels include Adele, Basement Jaxx, Tom Waits, Franz Ferdinand and Prodigy.Now independent labels representing 10% of the global music market will join MySpace Music, creating one of the largest independent music offerings on the web.The two sides said in a joint statement that a new deal would allow Merlin's members to "participate in and benefit from the financial growth of MySpace Music". The agreement is to be announced formally on Monday.They declined to disclose the commercial terms but said Merlin's member labels would be eligible to make money from their content on MySpace Music and that a Merlin nominee had been invited to attend and participate in selected MySpace Music board meetings."We can now provide our users with access to the rich catalogue that Merlin brings while simultaneously enabling Merlin labels to monetise their content within the MySpace community and easily track their fan engagement via our artist dashboard," said Courtney Holt, the president of MySpace Music.The row between the independents and MySpace was particularly striking given the social's network's reputation as a place to discover new music. But Holt sought to stress a spirit of co-operation between the two sides."MySpace Music values the support of the independent community and it has been a top priority for us to create a programme that would reward their steadfast support of the service," he said.The Merlin chief executive, Charles Caldas, said the new deal would give MySpace Music the support of independent labels. "The creation of this participation plan, along with the ability for Merlin nominees to participate in MySpace Music board meetings, shows that MySpace Music has recognised the value Merlin offers," he said.MySpace Music users could already stream music from many of the independent music label artists.
Jim CarreyThis month Jim Carrey has been spending his billions on his website, which is just about the daftest and most brilliant official actor's site imaginable. Indeed, it is the website for which the word "awesome" was invented. Godlike magnificence awaits you as a tableau of giant sea monsters, skyscrapers and cut-out Jims (the one with his head stuck on top of a bird's body takes you tohis Twitter page) unfolds to yet more Terry Gilliam-esque collages of Carrey in various heroic poses. Click around and you'll discover trailers, family pictures, TV clips and music by his 21-year-old daughter.Information Is BeautifulAn example of stats meeting design, as seen on the Information Is Beautiful site.David McCandless believes that an "amazing all-graphic future of civilisation" awaits us. Not really, but he is very keen on charts, venn diagrams, mind mapping and information art which he puts to regular use atthe Guardian's magnificent Datablogand here, where he collates the artistic collisions of statistics and design. These visualisations offer a quick way to gain knowledge and can often make a better point than words alone; such as the graphic on which countries have sent the most troops to Afghanistan. Many of the charts relate to economics and politics but plenty offer trivia and mind-blowing nonsense, like the baffling timelines of Star Trek and the correlation between drug use and a nation's happiness.BLOG ROLL: TWITTERJimmyWhat happens when a Portuguese scientist gives Jimmy the monkey a keyboard and a Twitter account.Shit My Dad SaysA son, back living with his parents, reports his dad's opinions on life, sex and young people's hair.Big BenYou want to tell the time? Go to the big guy for regular bong updates.Steve RoommateSteve's roommate secretly tweets about what Steve is doing all of the time.Future RealityTweets from three, 10 and 20 years in the future.New MoticonsA bold attempt to create fresh alternatives to :)Obi-Wan KenobiApparently it is not a moon, but a space station.UFO SightingsMicro blogging the latest evidence of visitations from other galaxies.WHAT WE LEARNED ON THE WEB THIS WEEKThe Complaints Choir of Helsinki, making moaning musical. Photograph: Petri SummanenIf you're going to moan it may as well be tuneful20 things you always see at non-league football groundsOn Sunday, 30 April, 2265 everyone in the UK will become a SugababeHow long it takes to form a habitWhy Americans are addicted to cutenessHow to eat a chicken wingWhere cats and physics co-existThe most embarrassing moments in video game voice actingSinging "happy birthday to you" contravenes copyrightWhat to write when you're robbing a bank
Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2,PC, PS3, Xbox 360 (reviewed)After last year's mediocreCall Of Duty: World At War, developer Infinity Ward is back in the driving seat for Modern Warfare 2, which brings back a couple of grizzled soldiers from the first game for another fearsome round of machine gunning, this time in opposition to a Russian terror gang. From the outset, the sense of danger and confusion is palpable with the intense single-player campaign clocking in at around eight hours. You can tackle a significant set of challenge levels on your own or co-operatively, but, as with older brotherModern Warfare, it's the vast and detailed multiplayer modes that millions around the world will still be playing in six months' time. The early scene involving an airport massacre is probably the most disturbing in any game, displaying a rare seriousness of intent; however, the other hundreds of hours of entertainment it provides are just that.Activision, £40-£55Assassin's Creed II,PC, PS3, Xbox 360 (reviewed)Likeits predecessor, Assassin's Creed II takes place in the future, but is almost entirely played out in Renaissance Italy, with your character inhabiting the simulated body of a 15th-century playboy whose life turns serious when he discovers his family's involvement in an ancient dispute between the Knights Templar and the Assassins. Unpicking the game's conspiracies is mostly a case of killing all those involved, with your job turning from that of multiple blade-carrying delivery boy to hired killer as formative fetch-and-carry missions give way to the story proper. Most of the game is spent either in combat or free-running the game's rooftops and alleyways searching for or escaping from foes, and while the action isn't quite as smooth as the recentUncharted 2, Assassin's Creed II is a sprawling and absorbing adventure that's a world away from the lame original. Also available is the impressively detailedOfficial Guide(Piggyback, £12.99) to help you wring every last florin out of your purchase.Ubisoft, £40-£50A Boy And His Blob,Nintendo WiiA Boy And His Blob is a remake of a gamefirst released 20 years ago on the Nintendo Entertainment Systemin which a young man befriends a gelatinous creature from another world. Helpfully, your blob can be fed special beans that make it transform into a range of objects from an anvil to push on to the enemies' heads to a trampoline for reaching high platforms. Each level forms an elegant, self-contained puzzle, which, if solved correctly via the right platform hops and choice of beans to feed your blob, gives access to three secret treasure chests; collect all to unlock a new challenge stage. With a charmingly innocent art style almost reminiscent of the original Winnie The Pooh, it also features a hug button that triggers an animation so adorable you'll be using it despite the fact that it has no impact on the course of the game. Warm, welcoming and gentle, A Boy And His Blob is a mellow haven in a gaming universe thick with sharp knives and big guns.Majesco, £28-£35
The CD player is dead. So says Linn Products, the high-end audio specialist based in Glasgow which for 20 years has been making .. CD players.The reason: its audiophile customers have moved, with alacrity, to hard drive-based systems - its DS "streaming players" - that allow them to encode their entire CD collection in order to play any track at will."We introduced our streaming players two years ago, and thought they would be slow to take off," says Gilad Tiefenbrun, Linn's managing director who is the son of the original founder, Ivan. "But sales of CD players have declined 40% year-on-year, while streaming players now make up 30% of our total business. It's unprecedented growth." The growth in those sales has come while overall revenues have remained stable, he added.Similar effects are being seen at Linn Records, the part of the company that sells music: CD sales are down 17%, while its uncompressed downloads - which include original studio mixes of recordings, rather than the mixed-down versions sold on CD - have grown by 24% in the same time; 70% of those are now those "Studio Master" versions, each costing £18.Is part of that due to the technology of CD players having reached an endpoint, I asked? That they can't get any better, so nobody's buying them? "Yes, there's some of that," said Tiefenbrun. "But the point is that you can get more by ripping a CD to a hard drive and then streaming it from a Linn DS. And the streaming player doesn't have the moving parts, the lasers and gubbins that a CD player does." For Linn's audiophile audience, moving parts are noisy and have limited lives, and so are anathema.Aren't hard drives also limited in lifespan? "The hard drive isn't in the listening chain" - the series of devices that actually generate the sound - "and you can get a stand-alone backup hard drive that can store all your tracks uncompressed for a couple of hundred quid which can hold 10 to 20,000 tracks." Songs can be streamed to any number of rooms.Linn usesFLAC-  the open source lossless codec - for its storage: it uses exactly the same algorithm as everyone else, says Tieferbrun; the secret sauce lies in how it converts the digitised signal into an analogue one - the DAC (digital to analogue converter). For that it takes off-the-shelf DACs, strips out the filters, and then writes its own converters which are programmed intoFPGAs(field programmable gate arrays), as used by most companies that want to program their own stuff.The move to streaming sounds a lot likeSonos, I suggested. "Ah, but Sonos is very affordable," he replied - which made me choke a bit:Sonos kit is hardly what you'd call cheap. But then as the Majik DS player,launched in November last year, costs £1,750 - many times more than you'd pay for a comparable Sonos system - you can see that Linn really is aiming at the big spenders.The question is always, of course, whether you reallycanhear the difference. And that, of course is subjective. When you've spent nearly £2,000 on a piece of kit, you're probably going to be predisposed to think it sounds better. The reality, though, is that the majority of music these days is still listened to in compressed form, using headphones that are barely doing the job - yes, Apple's iPod. But Linn, still going strong after 27 years (and saying there are no job cuts to come from dropping CD manufacture), does seem to demonstrate that you can always make money at the top end.
The government's planned crackdown on unlawful online filesharing has been attacked by privacy campaigners and internet service providers but welcomed by executives and artists in the music business.Earlier today,the government published the digital economy bill, the result of more than a year's consultation and debate, which includes plans to send warnings letters to persistent unlawful file-sharers and paves the way for persistent illegal sharers to have their broadband cut off from 2011.Treasury secretary, Stephen Timms, who is the government minister with responsibility for the bill, said earlier today that his plans to combat unlawful file-sharing were generally supported by the internet service providers, claiming that the major providers of broadband were "pretty supportive of where we have now reached". His hopes, however, have been dashed with both BT and TalkTalk, two of the UK's top three ISPs, rubbishing his plans.Charles Dunstone, chief executive of TalkTalk's owner Carphone Warehouse, denounced the digital economy bill as a "backward step" that threatened the rights of consumers. Dunstone, who has already threatened to mount a legal challenge, was particularly incensed at the powers sought by Lord Mandelson in the bill tochange copyright legislation with apparently minimal scrutiny."Until now, the proposed legislation could be best described as unwieldy and ill-conceived," said Dunstone. "In addition it now looks to deny people freedom of speech and infringe their basic human rights. Current legislation allows for people to be taken to court and a case proved against them before action is taken and that must be maintained.''He stressed that TalkTalk does not support copyright infringement "but we live in the real world and understand that no amount of policing and censorship will solve the problem ... it doesn't matter how many websites are blocked, how many services are shut down or how many individuals are pursued, people will always find ways to access copyrighted content for free. There is an army of 'Robin Hoods' out there developing tools which allow completely undetectable access to content. No amount of monitoring can spot it. Shut one service down and 20 will pop up in its place."He said TalkTalk would not surrender customer details to rights holders unless it received a court order and would not cut off any of its customers without a legal fight. Dunstone said that, instead of threats, music and film fans must be encouraged back to legal services through education and by making content available in a form and at a price that they find acceptable.John Petter, managing director of BT's consumer business, also attacked the plans, saying that while abuse of copyright was wrong, "we have real concerns about the government's plans and the lack of legal protections for accused individuals"."We believe that technical measures are not the way forward and that a system of court fines for repeat infringers is preferable. Such an approach would not only protect innocent people, it could also create a fund that could be used to support the UK's creative industries," he said.Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, warned that "people's rights are at stake"."The bill doesn't require any test of evidence before harsh punishments are imposed on people accused of copyright infringement, and opens the door to a ratcheting up of unwarranted powers without democratic scrutiny," he said. "There is a massive swell of action against this bill, led by creators, citizens and people working in digital industries, who are outraged by this attempt to hijack our rights."Paddy Gardiner, media partner at international law firm Eversheds, said it is questionable whether the bill will make it onto the statute book because of "an already congested legislative timetable before the next election"."However, Lord Mandleson's latest attack on filesharers appears to sidestep this obstacle by seeking to amend the Copyright Act via the backdoor of secondary legislation, thus largely avoiding parliamentary scrutiny," Gardiner added."Although the thrust of the proposals may be broadly welcomed by rights holders, the plans seem hurriedly put together and not clearly thought-through," he said."The proposed powers can be divested to "any person specified", rather than specifically Ofcom, and could have far-reaching and unforeseen effects. In fact, in its enthusiasm to outlaw filesharers, the government may be setting the stage for bigger battles over digital content between powerful rights-holders such as Newscorp and content aggregators such as Google."Some critics have already suggested that the wide definition of online copyright within the bill could leave the door open for Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation to use the new legislation to prevent sites such as Google News from linking to his online content.But music and film companies warmly welcomed the digital economy bill. Christine Payne, general secretary of Equity and chair of the Creative Coalition Campaign, said: "The government is doing the right thing by introducing legal measures aimed at tackling widespread online infringement of creative copyright, such as by peer-to-peer filesharing or other technologies that may emerge in the future.""Our creative sector provides 1.8 million jobs in the UK and produces world-class content, enjoyed by millions around the world, but simply put, this cannot be sustained and more jobs will be lost if illegal filesharing persists."Chris Marcich, president and managing director of the Motion Picture Association for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, added thatMandelson's decision to include powers in the bill to further change copyright law in future, were to be welcomed as "safeguards built in that will ensure the effectiveness of the legislation in the long-term"."In the film industry, we fully support the vision the Bill sets out of a viable and thriving online market for digital content and we look forward to playing our role in its development," Marcich said.Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the BPI, which represents the UK's recorded music business, described it as "an important milestone towards a sustainable future for British music in the digital age"."While the focus has been on measures to tackle illegal peer-to-peer, it is significant that the government has recognised the need for a mechanism to deal with other forms of illegal downloading," Taylor said.Feargal Sharkey, chief executive of UK Music, the umbrella organisation that represents artists, musicians, songwriters, managers and publishers, added that "the clear purpose of this bill is to move everyone forward"."Our focus is not to disconnect, but to reconnect. To reaffirm and recognise the value of creative works, both to individuals and to the UK economy. However, for this market to evolve and flourish there must be breathing space to allow all sides to adapt," Sharkey said."Government intervention can provide that impetus. In this wider context, our industry continues to develop and partner with emerging digital services. ISPs and tech companies must work with us, and it is imperative that we reach out together to genuine fans of music."Artists also added their voices in welcoming the bill. "At long last, the government, led by Peter Mandelson, is looking to legislate to protect the industry," said James Blunt. "He's looking to engage the ISPs, who in my opinion handle stolen goods, and should take much more responsibility."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Someone at Lego really deserves a bonus. They're not the most obvious toy company to embrace the world of video gaming but not only have they done it, they've done it well and continue to put their own highly endearing spin on family gaming.After the successful film franchises, they've now turned their attention to the Rock Band genre. The results are typically Lego: cute, funny, involving and with an emphasis on (e)quality. Those expecting a dumbing down of the frantic fretwork won't be surprised to hear that you can complete the game just by strumming.  However, that's only on Super Easy mode. Select Medium and above and even the most adept Guitar Hero will find something to challenge their hand/eye coordination. This means, of course, that the Rock Band dexterous can play alongside smaller siblings / less competent parents without anyone getting frustrated.The other obvious difference between Lego's interpretation and the existing titles is the music. Thrash metal is notable by its absence and, instead, you've got crowdpleasers, mainstream rock and straightforward pop, from Queen to KT Tunstall, via the likes of Tom Petty, Bon Jovi, Lostprophets and the Ghostbusters theme. They've clearly missed a trick – what, no Blockheads? – but make up for it in Free Play mode with their Lego interpretations of the original artists. Like the movie franchises, these are charming and oddly accurate – particularly Lego Iggy Pop, Blur and Let's Dance era David Bowie. Iggy even gets to voice the Tutorial stages.Story Mode is the main event here. Create a character, choose your instrument, recruit a band, then take them from humble beginnings to stadium success. You do this via a succession of gigs and challenges where you earn "studs" – Lego bricks – to spend on transport, management, clothes, instruments, record production, etc. This comes with a sensible learning curve, great variety, daft challenges – from being the entertainment at a birthday party to saving a ship from an angry octopus with the power of Rock – and, as you'd expect from these chaps, very funny cut scenes. Even the random facts on the loading screens provide frequently silly laughs: for example, did you know that if you stack Lego bricks in a certain way, you can spell the word Lego?The obvious downside is that you have to focus so hard on the game that you can't watch the lovely accompanying animation. Still, that's another reason to get more friends / all the family involved. Chalk up another success to Lego then. Any chance of a football sim next? Just think how satisfying brick-crunching tackles would be.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I don't really own many gadgets – I tend to lose them right away. I lost my wedding ring last week, so compare that to any gadget. The one I've held on to the longest is an automatic guitar tuner – I don't even know the name of it. It's pentagonal in shape – it's a satanic guitar tuner. You put it on the end of your guitar, turn it on and it tells you when your guitar is in tune. I find it astounding because I have a tin ear.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it last night to tune my fucking guitar – what else would I use it for? It can't even help you find lost keys.What additional features would you add to it if you could?I would add a pitch corrector to it, and some laser devices that would shoot light out of the end of the guitar. And for long shows, a device with which you could watch movies on it.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years?Nope. As far as keeping the world's guitars in tune, I think this will be de rigeur, if it isn't already.What always frustrates you about technology in general?The planned obsolescence. Right now I am promoting a DVD, and this is my life's work up till now. In 10 years, will there even be DVDs? At that point, people will be watching shows off the back of their eyelids, or something.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?The mobile phone – I really do loathe them. I hate 'em. Not for the technology, I just hate that they make you accessible. This whole mentality of having to be a finger-touch away from somewhere is a load of shit. You should be able to be out on a river with a fishing rod and nobody will be able to get you. I'm not against technology, I just find it very frustrating.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?It's never really going to get any easier, is it? It's just more stuff to learn. My tip is to pick one password and use it for everything, because you're never going to remember them all.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm neither – I'm a technosceptic. I avoid being loaded down with stuff – I've never even owned a watch. I'm afraid I'm going to lose stuff. I carry a mobile phone, because I'm married and have a kid. But you don't really need one – you're always around people with mobile phones. But I do need a good guitar tuner.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably an ADAT digital recorder. It was about 10-15 years ago, and you needed to use Super VHS tape with it. They were fucking expensive too, but they were excellent. I bought two of them and hooked them up.Mac or PC, and why?Mac – because it's the first computer I ever bought and I got used to it.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Sure – great idea. Are those out yet?What piece of technology would you most like to own?I would like a device that would jam up everybody else's mobile phone in a public place – that would fucking be great.•Rich Hall's new DVD, Hell No, I Ain't Happy, is out on 23 November
The first question is simply: why? What's wrong with the existing copyright laws, and the powers that they offer, that Lord Mandelson think they need tweaking so thatanyonecan be given powers to hunt down someone thought to be infringing copyright, andnewpowers have to be given so that certain acts are deemed to be illicit?If you're not up to speed,Lord Mandelson wants sweeping new powers, which involve changing the Copyright, Designs and Patent Act of 1988.Let's pause for a moment and look at the single part of the letter to Harriet Harman where he actually cites some particular problems. He talks about "cyberlockers" – online digital storage – which he acknowledges have perfectly legal uses, but which he says are also used by people to share files illegally.Well, he's right. This is true. You may recall Apple's "iTools" service – which is what its online cloud service was called when it was launched in January 2000 for free (20 whole megabytes of storage!) and before it was made paid-for in July 2002 and rebranded as ".Mac".Part of the reason for shifting to paid-for, I learnt from an Apple employee (who for obvious reasons must remain nameless), was that Apple discovered rather quickly that if you offer people free storage on the web, then while lots of people will use it for good, honest reasons, a small percentage will use it for bad ones.Chasing the people who were storingwarezsuch as cracked copies of Photoshop on the iTools servers became a cat-and-mouse game where there were rather more mice than cats. That was part of why Apple turned it into a paid-for service.However, at no point did the US government step in and try to close Apple down. Nor did it find it necessary to create new laws nor offences to criminalise the warez-storers (who were perfectly aware that what they were doing wasn't legal), nor did it find any need to give Apple new powers to stop its service being abused.So the question over this proposal is: what isn't working at present in our laws that means we need changes tostrengthencopyright and delegate powers to "any person as may be specified with or for the purposes of facilitating prevention of reduction of online infringement of copyright"?It's especially ironic during a week when Gordon Brown and Tim Berners-Lee pledged toloosen the ties of copyright on government-collected map data, as the government recognised that public data ought to belong to the public.The particular objection that Mandelson seems to have to "cyberlockers" (can't we just say "cloud storage"?) is that someone can share a private URL with someone else, and nobody on the outside is any the wiser that the file exchange has taken place. In its way, it's like a very slow peer-to-peer system; certainly there's no real way that it threatens to become anything like the volume of file-sharing, because sending people URLs and getting them to download stuff puts noticeable load on the servers of the storage company. If it's anything like Apple, it's going to notice the demand. Believe me, every company that offers cloud storage knows about the warez problem: they run all sorts of tests against uploaded files, and even files that traverse their networks: thus I discovered, for example, while cleaning out the Free Our Data site from a hacker attack, that I couldn't email a hacker control panel I'd discovered to someone who was helping: Google analysed the file and blocked it from passing over its servers.Yet it seems to be that aspect of the invisibility of the URLs that's really troubling the people who are lobbying Mandelson (because this is obviously not something he's discovered from surfing the net; I do, a lot, and I've not seen anyone complaining about the Evil of Cyberlocker Copyright Infringement). Search engines aren't allowed into those "cyberlockers" to index their content; it's as private as robots.txt can make it.Yet in mysubsequent conversation with Stephen Timms, the minister who is now the financial secretary to the Treasury but oversaw much of the drafting of the digital economy bill while at the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, I didn't get any clear answer to what part of the existing Copyright Act doesn't work against cyberlockers. Is there some concern that hackerz are going to put cracked copied of Photoshop onto Amazon's S3 and run it as a web app? If they can manage that, they deserve to be hired by a Microsoft-killer, not hunted down by whatBoingBoing is calling "The Pirate-Finder General".All in all, I'm left severely puzzled by the consultation process that hasn't gone on here. The DBIS says it has had its public consultation on the Digital Britain plans. So where, and when, did this cyberlocker business come from? It's said to be a last-minute insertion by Mandelson into the bill, published earlier today. Who came to him with it?And finally, Timms says that any suggestion of changing the copyright act would first go through a "very, very public consultation". Is that like the "big debates" that we hear so much about from the government? Fat lot of good they've done for things like the status of cannabis. While I think we can all agree that cracking software isn't ethical, legal, or moral, neither is taking on powers that could be used in entirely unpredictable ways.And I still come back to the self-correcting nature of the internet, and businesses. What's been killing file-sharing? Not the action of record labels or ISPs; it's been the action of businesses like Spotify and We7, offering better models for access to music of guaranteed quality. What's been stopping cracked software being uploaded to online storage sites? The self-interest of the companies owning the sites, which know that the crackers will use above-average amounts of bandwidth and storage (indeed, that's almost the metric for finding cracked stuff on one of those sites: investigate the busiest, most demanding users).We could do with similar action to cut out botnets and spam, but there aren't any big-money lobbyists coming to Mandelson pleading loss of business through those. Perhaps if the banks were forced to bear all the costs of online fraud, they'd suddenly discover an interest in handing out properly secure systems – such asLinux systems on memory sticks which you'd be obliged to boot into if you wanted online banking via a PC.But for now, the logic behind this government's desire to take on more powers than it can demonstrate any need for is worrying. As Tony Hirst of the Open Universityobserved on Twitter, we haven't needed to alter the law on murder, despite the invention of electricity and other means of carrying out the act: it's still illegal in itself. The mechanisms of copyright infringement are irrelevant to the act. So what is it exactly that Lord Mandelson actuallywants?
So how's Twitter going to make any money? One of its biggest fans, British actor and polymathStephen Fry, gave co-founder Biz Stoneoneidea when the pair shared aNesta panelin London on Thursday…"Supposing I was to say to someone: 'you can have my Twitter identity for an hour on Wednesday if you pay me x pounds and you can speak to a million people direct'," said Fry, whose follower count just passed seven figures.But Fry wasn't being deadly serious, and Stone is content persevering with Twitter's cautious, softly-softly monetisation plans. He said plans to start selling corporate accounts, firsthinted at in August, are on-course. A pay-for package offering verified streams and an analytics package will be available by year's end, he said."This takes advantage of some of the commercial use of Twitter we've seen from businesses like airlines and big box stores… we want to present to them a layer of features that allows them to become better at Twitter, show them some of the analytics."Fry, whose own popularity has skyrocketed still further on the back of his tweets, is now closely associated with the service. With that, comes an appreciation for Stone's monetisation issue. Fry added: "He knows that, if Twitter became annoying to users with flashing banners and there was a sense it was being guided by a big corporate brother, (users) would go off and found their own."—Competition for Twitter?: "There are other companies inspired by what Twitter is doing and I think that's great… We're seeking to release our data and form partnerships." Quoting Google CEO Eric Schmidt speaking about search competitors at an in-house Google meeting years ago, he says: "We should look in the rear view mirror, but if we stare in the rear view mirror we're going to drive right off the road."—What future direction?: His colleagues havesaid it before, but he'll say it again: Stone very much sees Twitter's future in mobile: "When we look at where we can grow we look to the more than four billion active mobile phone accounts in the world, opposed to the 1.65 million active web accounts."—The future of media?: As Twitter grows its users, reader and viewers are straying from TV news and newspapers—can Stone help their plight? He says he can: "As we begin to add thing such asthe ability to geo-tag an individual tweetand recognise which users have higher reputations than others, that will feed into the culture of news organisations."—Grand ambitions?: When Stone says Twitter's changing the world through mass social interaction, hereallymeans it: asked how he wants the service to be remembered, he says hopefully it will be "not as a triumph of technology but a triumph of humanity".Related StoriesTwitter To Charge For Premium Accounts Later This Year
The creation of Mario was, most likely, one of those moments of accidental genius which warrant little scrutiny or examination. A small sprite needs a few distinguishing features to mark him out from the plethora of similar arcade characters, red and blue clothes with a natty 'tache is easy to represent in pixels - hey presto, you have everyone's favourite mycophile.In fact, theplumber's humble origins are just as prosaic. And it's this simple genesis that marks Mario out from so many of his platform-navigating colleagues - what game series today could launch with a character so simply devised, or set in a world with such bizarre charm.Jumping on turtles in order to kill them, smashing blocks with your head to retrieve golden coins, eating huge mushrooms with eyes to gain power - all gaming lore we're more than familar with, yet all ideas which, devoid of context, would seem more appropriate for a Clive Barker novel than a universally popular videogame series.Even the likes of Sonic reflect some level of crass pandering to valued demographics. He's a hedgehog, withattitude. He rescues cute animals from an evil robotic genius. Charmless, irritating and ultimately doomed. Crash Bandicoot, Zool, Rayman, Bubsy the Bobcat, Spyro - the list of similarly failed attempts to wrestle away Mario's crown just goes on and on.While we could try and analyse Mario's success on a deeper level - I'm sure he taps into some kind of hirsute water supplying male archetype - he has, of course, been helped by the astounding consistency and success of the games in which he's starred.Super Mario Bros, Super Mario Bros 3, Super Mario World, Super Mario 64, Super Mario Galaxy -  all been held up as the greatest examples of their genre, not just on Nintendo consoles but of any platformers ever made.My first Mario experience was, in fact, with Super Mario Bros 2 on the NES - a regrettably rushed, though often fondly remembered, port of a Japanese platformer called Doki Doki Panic. It was, with hindsight, really quite rubbish.What this meant however is that I succumbed utterly to Mario 3, and all the hype that preceded it. Warp whistles, racoon ears, Toad's minigame - all distinctive facets of a gaming experience I look back on just as fondly as any childhood book, or film.With the release of New Super Mario Bros Wii today, a new generation can fall under his moustachioed charms. Meanwhile the classics are still more than playable, and Nintendo can rest assured in the fact that there will likely never be a gaming hero more well-loved or endearingly idiosyncratic.I can forgive Mario is Missing. I can forgive Hotel Mario, Mario Paint. Hell, I can even forgive Bob Hoskins. Mario, I salute you.Now you've read Jack waffling on why not add your own fond Mario memories beneath the line there? Go on. It's good to talk
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Last week's semi-philosophical question prompted a wealth of fascinating responses, so here's another along similar lines.An alien arrives on Earth and wants to know all about mankind - there's just one problem; the visitor will only accept the information through the medium of videogames, and will only play three. Which videogames do you choose?Fundamentally, you have to decide what you want this extraterrestrial being to understand about humanity and then select the games that will illustrate this. You must provide only three options, and you need to briefly explain each of your choices.Here are mine...The SimsThe perfect primer for understanding human relations, ambitions and petty habitual obsessions. Plus, our new alien friend can gain a useful foundation in childish humour - "my avatar has urinated in the kitchen - why does this amuse you?"CivilizationShows how mankind has used a combination of science, weaponry and grain storage to progress. Also, plenty of information about social and economic structure. And how to lie effectively to foreign statesmen.Grand Theft AutoAs a race, we like shooting stuff, driving really fast and making money. This game shows that some of us like to do all three at the same time.Okay, your turn...
Following on from the story earlier today aboutLord Mandelson's plans to get an amendment made to the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act (CDPA) of 1988 that would allow him - or any future secretary of state for industry - to amend it over copyright enforcement issues, I spoke to Stephen Timms, the financial secretary to the Treasury, who is also involved in the Digital Economy bill, being published on Friday at 7.30am. (The quotes that follow are from contemporaneous shorthand notes, though they may contain errors.)He revealed that the bill "has a clause which gives the secretary of state power to amend the CDPA to prevent or reduce copyright infringement. The reason for including this in the bill is to enable government to respond to technological changes if the CDPA isn't sufficient. We think we've now got an effective way of tackling peer-to-peer but reckon that isn't all of the problem."So the logic behind giving Mandelson - and any incoming secretary of state for business, don't forget - this power to determine any sort of change to the CDPA in the future is because theremightbe copyright problems in the future that the present act doesn't catch.Is that likely, I asked? "Maybe other forms of illegality are going to be a significantly larger share of the problem. We need flexibility to keep pace with new illegal forms [of piracy/copying/filesharing]."But isn't it dangerous to give secretaries of state powers to amend the act at will like this? "The way that this clause is formed there would be a clear requirement for full public consultation [before any change] followed by a vote in favour by both houses of Parliament."Surely, though, public consultation doesn't necessarily mean listening to the public, and any government in power will by definition have a majority, and the Parliament Act means that votes in the Commons must eventually to be approved by the Lords. So what and where is the safeguard? "It will be very public and significant," Timms said. As to the clause itself, he emphasised that "it wouldn't amend the act itself, but will give us the power to amend it if it becomes clear in the future that it's needed."[This alteration of the CDPA is known as a statutory instrument: read up about it at the Wikipedia article, specifically on Parliamentary (lack of) control over them -Parliament can either accept or reject such an instrument, but cannot amend it. SIs are a very common method of getting things done in Parliament because it's quick and easy. But it's not usual to do it to something as fundamental as the copyright act.Update: Phazer points out in the comments that the CDPA has been altered a number of times to bring it into line with European law and change copyright terms. True, though that's not quite the same as giving the Secretary of State abitrary powers.]Why might that change be needed? What's not working about the CDPA at present? Surely, the provisions of the act cover illicit peer-to-peer file sharing, so what's not functioning? Record companies have sued people successfully in the courts. So what doesn't work?"It's reflecting the fact that technology is changing very fast," said Timms. "The existing [method] is quite cumbersome. We might need something else in the future."And what about the 'Murdoch question' - the possibility that an incoming government might change copyright law to favour, say, a big newspaper proprietor that had backed them and made angry noises about copyright?"The best safeguard against actions of that kind is the requirement in the clause that there has to be full public consultation and there has to be a positive vote in Parliament. This would be a very, very open and public process."But why is the government taking on powers now for which it does not have an immediate use? "We have been consulting on these problems. The fact that it's not just peer-to-peer is a point that has been raised in the consultation. That's where we took the view that we needed the ability if it becomes clear this is a big problem."Ah, the "cyberlocker" problem referred to by Mandelson in his letter to Harriet Harman (who would have to approve the SI). This is where people upload stuff to online storage, which can only be found by giving out the URL - the storage is effectively invisible to search engines. Are they really such a problem? "It's about what could be a problem. Note that this is about civil infringement - we're not creating new offences. We won't be able to change the existing criminal offences on copyright. It's a simpler way of dealing with the problem."What about the clause which will let the secretary of state "impose such duties, powers ...on any person as may be specified with or for the purposes of facilitating prevention of reduction of online infringement of copyright"? That's a huge power to give someone, surely? How do we know that won't get abused to create what some have called a 'militia'? "I'd draw your attention to the public consultation. It would be a very, very public process. This would be a very public process indeed. It wouldn't be possible to slip something through clandestinely. That's the biggest safeguard. People will obviously want to look at what the clause says. But it simply gives us the ability to tackle what's likely to be a growing problem."(Clearly, the emphasis that Timms wants to give is that this isn't being done secretly. But the concern is that it's not being doneaccountably- that there's no way of seeing who the government is actually paying attention to.)Perhaps I'm being dim, I said, but I can't see how these 'cyberlockers', which were cited by Mandelson in the letter to Harman, aren't already covered by the legislation. In what way aren't they already covered? "There's an analogy with peer-to-peer. Yes, there are existing laws because the approach in the bill we believe will be effective. There are systems other than peer-to-peer which are also a problem [for copyright holders]. By analogy, we want to be able to do comparable things to stop them."But you can with cyberlockers. Or is it a problem of jurisdiction - that they're often located in other countries? "No, it's not that. The answer is the same as peer-to-peer, we need an effective way to deal with it. It's an effective answer to do this so we don't have to work out a proposal [to control copyright infringement in some new way] where we would need to develop and go through the whole process [of enacting legislation]. But we need this to be able to address parts of the problem other than peer-to-peer."And that was the end of the conversation. If I'm honest, I still do not understand what elements of copyright law don't already include everything you can do with a computer. If you store a file onto your computer and you don't have the rights holder's permission to do so, that's infringement. If you store a file online and don't have the rights holder's permission to do so, that's infringement too, though it falls into the problem of jurisdiction - what if the servers are in the US or China or Korea? Sure, copyright is useful (necessary, in fact, for lots of businesses to function). In fact, it works very well. Music companies are seeing illicit file-sharing fall - but it's not because of the distant threat of "three strikes" or  past lawsuits, it's because of services such asSpotifyorWe7.We'd also like to know who is so concerned about these "cyberlockers", apart from Mandelson of course. Let us know.
