Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
If you want to do the impossible, go toPopurls. In this case, "the impossible" means getting a pretty good idea of what's happening on the web, and in the blogosphere in particular, in a couple of minutes. Popurls does it in one simple page.There are, of course, plenty of people who love the various social news aggregators, and I've already looked at Digg in this series. Others include Reddit, Delicious, Newsvine, Metafilter, Tailrank, Google News, Yahoo! News, Wired News, Slashdot, Boing Boing, Fark, NowPublic, Netscape, StumbleUpon, Furl, Clipmarks and dzone (for software developers) … which is far too many to check on a regular basis.Popurls solves the problem by taking the top 15 stories from every one of those sites and listing the headlines. It also lets you see the top videos from YouTube, iFilm and other sources, the top photos from Flickr, the top podcasts from Odeo, and other things too numerous to mention. Yes, on one page.If that sounds good, Popurls is even better. When you're scanning headlines at speed, something is probably going to catch your eye. All you have to do is position your mouse over the headline and Popurls pops up a little box that shows the start of the story — the first 40 words or so. Usually that's all you need. If not, you can click the headline and be taken straight to the source.In web 2.0 terms, Popurls is a mash-up: it takes news feeds from many different sources and puts them together to create something new. Yes, you could do that yourself, using a news reader or a personal portal page such as Netvibes or iGoogle. That's fine, but it takes work and you have to know what you want. Popurls is great if you don't have a clue what you want, and needs no work at all.Popurls also adds a few tools so you can personalise the display. There are buttons to toggle the background from black to white, make the type larger, open links in a new browser window, and so on. You can also rearrange the layout (using drag and drop) so your favourite feeds are at the top. Finally, there's a hidden dot to the right of each headline: click the dot and the story is added to your Popurls scrapbook for up to five days.Popurls' beauty is its simplicity. However, I'd love to see it expand into four different Popurls. The three new ones would cover technology, entertainment and politics. Some other sites that aggregate feeds have already made this split, including Digg, Techmeme and Tailrank, while Google News has always had sections.In aninterviewlate last year, Popurls' Austrian founder Thomas Marban said he would "offer customisation only on the presentation layer and not the types of sources as I don't want to offer the n-th feed reader".But the world has moved on since then, and Popurls should move on, too. How about it, Thomas?
Halo 3? The Second Coming or just a highly polished sci-fi shooter for the Xbox 360? Well, the reviews are in and things aren't looking good for the skeptics.Eurogamerand1upare the most enthusiastic, offering straight 10s. ButGamespot,IGNandC&amp;VGare hardly critical, with scores of 9.5, 9.5 and 9.7 respectively. All the reviews have praised the online modes, especially the co-op, while the single player game promises to wrap up the loose ends of Halo 2. Reviews sway you? Or were you always going to buy anyway?
So, what did you get up to over the weekend? I managed to snatch a few Call of Duty 4 sessions in between Duplo and football sessions with my son. The CoD 4 beta is running til September 30 apparently, so there's still a few days to apply for an access code and join the slaughter - though coming in as a rank-free newbie will be like taking on an SAS squadron with a pea-shooter and a yellow belt in Judo.Anyway, here are five stats on last week, just to get us up to date.SixThe number of days before the official launch of Halo 3 that pirates have managed toget code on the web. This, of course, follows the Argos incident in which the catalogue chain started selling the game several days early.54,000The number of square metres inhabited by theTokyo Game Showwhich concluded yesterday. Apart from Sony's controversial unveiling of Dualshock 3 ("Ladies and gentlemen, it's the controller you all wanted in the first place. Yay!"), the show floor was apparently dominated by Wii titles - and Nintendo didn't even bother tyo show up. Succinct sum-ups can be found atWiredandNext Generation.486,659The number of copiesCrisis Core: Final Fantasy VIIhad sold in Japan by last week. The game has somehow turned PSP into the biggest-selling chunk of games hardware in the country: 95,487 units compared to DS's 79,974.11.6 millionThe worldwide Xbox 360 sales according to Microsoft. "Software sales for the Xbox 360 are also the highest at 24.3 million units total, compared to the 19.8 million software titles sold for both the Wii and PlayStation 3 combined,"reportsNeoseeker.One quadrillionI don't even know what that means, but it's the number of floating point calculations per second being handled byFolding@Home, the PS3 distributed computing initiative organised in conjunction with Stanford University. Okay, so PS3 is currently losing the hardware sales war but what is Wii doing about disease, eh? Nothing!
Proton Satria Neo&pound;7,995Miles per gallon:39.7Seats:5Good for:Flash gitsBad for:Old gitsI'm having lunch at Scott's - a posh seafood restaurant in Mayfair where, legend has it, the author Ian Fleming discovered the dry martini so beloved by 007. A glance at the prices, however, will leave you both shaken and stirred. It's the kind of place where a diner with the thimble-sized appetite of Keira Knightley can swallow &pound;100 of grub with ease. And yet it shows you the depth of ambition for its new product that Proton has that they've invited a group of hard-to-please motoring journalists to an oyster bar in Mayfair rather than, say, Garfunkel's in Swindon for the launch of their car.The Satria Neo is a sub-&pound;8,000 three-door supermini. The supermini class is the most competitive of all motoring sectors, with more than 50 models to choose from. And of those 50, just five account for 40 per cent of sales. These are the Vauxhall Corsa, Ford Fiesta, Peugeot 207, VW Polo and Renault Clio.At the moment, your typical Proton driver is male, loyal, in his seventies and puts value for money above concerns such as trendiness. You are unlikely to hear a Proton driver say: 'I was happy to pay over the odds for a prestige badge...' But clearly, having a bunch of ageing cheapskates as your core market is hardly going to get cash-hungry private-equity partners licking their lips, so to appeal to younger, more savvy drivers, Proton has formed an unlikely marriage with Lotus. And by linking the performance sportscar specialist with the trundling Malaysian state manufacturer, Lotus and Proton have become the Nancy and Sven of the motoring world. Why did Lotus choose to get into bed with Proton? Might have had something to do with the fact Proton cannily bought 63 per cent of Lotus for &pound;38 million a decade ago. The lotus flower thrives in Malaysia - maybe that's what took the government company's fancy...The input from Lotus is obvious from the outset. The Satria Neo's look is bold and stylish. The car crouches on wide-set wheels, a sculpted hood flowing back from its mesh grille and sporty 'tiger-eye' projector headlamps to a tapered rear and a single, central exhaust pipe. The biggest surprise is the engine. Fire it up, and the note is throaty and energetic - it could do a passable Bonnie Tyler impression. It's definitely not something that will appeal to the usual Proton pensioners. Both a 1.3- and a 1.6-litre version are available, and petrol consumption is over 40 miles to the gallon. On top of that, the Satria Neo comes with a juicy helping of the kind of extras which normally push the price of a car through the 10-grand barrier. There's aircon, a decent stereo, airbags and even a pollen-filter system.Any crosses on the checklist? Two, I'm afraid: the plasticy dashboard (it's the one piece of a car you spend every journey looking at, so making it from what looks like a B&Q; rain gutter is a mistake), and the very poor head clearance (you either have to tilt your head or drive in a lying down position)... So, the Satria Neo: perfect for short-backed young men on a budget with an interest in sporty cars - and a taste for oysters.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Fascinating as it may be, the internet is no good to you when you're six feet under. Or that has been the assumption. Yet now a website dedicated to that vast and previously overlooked group, the dead, is starting to prove being online is vital even when you are permanently offline.Users ofYouDeparted.comcan issue posthumous instructions for everything from their funeral to feeding their pet, cancelling bills and magazine subscriptions, organising their will and other financial matters, sending final letters to friends - and foes - and delivering a valedictory video address summing it all up.All that's required in this life is a computer, some inputting, and a minimum of $9.95 (&pound;4.93) a year. Once a user has died, and it has been confirmed to the site by designated family members or friends, the content is released as he or she instructed.The idea came to co-founder Collin Harris after the death of his own father in 2000. 'We had no information about anything, even down to the key to his desk, so we had to get a locksmith,' Harris recalled. 'He had two safety deposit boxes but we never found them.'My stepmother has his ashes but we don't know what he wanted us to do with them. I got thinking, what would happen if I died suddenly? How is anyone to know what you are responsible for and where everything is?'Harris and his son, Nick, set about building an electronic safe deposit box where people can store such information until it is needed. A sample account on YouDeparted contains information such as 'Cover letter to family', 'Where to find my will', 'Here is how I want my burial to be handled', 'My pallbearers', 'Phone bill', 'The family business - how to run it', 'Gift to my childhood friend Al', 'Dental insurance', 'Keys to the storage locker' and 'Turn the water off to the shed before winter'.When the account owner dies, the site can send emails and post traditional letters, including orders to cancel bills and subscriptions.Harris, 51, a software entrepreneur, insists that he has made security paramount, using the same encryption technology that America's National Security Agency employs to transmit classified documents, and undergoing a daily audit by a security firm, HackerStopper.'I can't look at your account even though I did a lot of the programming,' he said. 'To say nothing wrong can ever happen is idiotic, as the Titanic demonstrated, but the damage caused would be small.'The Harrises launched the site from their home in Incline Village, Nevada, but it has attracted 10,000 users worldwide.He is not sure if anyone has yet stored a video message to say goodbye. 'I don't know if I would,' he mused. 'With everyone sitting around to watch it, it would be a bit like a Hollywood movie.'
If your aim is to own the world (and all the world's advertising), then you don't want a large chunk of your better-off subjects doing their socialising on Facebook, where you can't so easily get at their data [or in NewSpeak,social graph].Obviously you're supposed to useOrkut, so Google would have a record of your identity and your social network, as well as your search records, your email, your calendar, logs of your online chats and much of your surfing behaviour, your photos and your documents. But while Orkut has been successful in some places, such as Brazil, it failed in the US.So, according to Michael Arrington ofTechCrunch:Yesterday a select group of fifteen or so industry luminaries attended a highly confidential meeting at Google's headquarters in Mountain View to discuss the company's upcoming plans to address the "Facebook issue."The meeting was so secret that all attendees had to sign confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements strictly forbidding them from discussing what was shown to them at the meeting. Notwithstanding that NDA, I've now spoken with three of the attendees off record to get an understanding of what Google is planning.The short version: Google will announce a new set of APIs on November 5 that will allow developers to leverage Google's social graph data. They'll start with Orkut and iGoogle (Google's personalized home page), and expand from there to include Gmail, Google Talk and other Google services over time.Later in the story, he says:In the long run, Google seems to be planning to add a social layer on top of the entire suite of Google services, with Orkut as their initial main source of social graph information and, as I said above, possibly adding third party networks to the back end as well. Social networks would have little choice but to participate to get additional distribution and attention.Google would then be able to target its advertising even more accurately, because it could tie its cookie and ad-based website tracking to your real identity.No doubt Microsoft, Yahoo and others are wishfully thinking along the same lines. However, it could be a killer strategy for Google because it dominates the online advertising business. Thanks to AdSense, it can make far more money than anybody else, even if they have a much better product.Conspiracy theory? Or is Google really the Future Borg? What do you think?
MondayWorld in Conflict interviewAugmenting realityUS software abd hardware salesTuesdayPerry pans PSPWikigame: Week 9WednesdayGame mechanics uncoveredThe next best thing to a light saberMobile Entertainment AwardsGames with a messageThursdaySony at TGSFinding the hidden messageBlizzard breaks up erotic Warcraft guildHow chemistry works - the gameFridayI want (to control) my MTVMass Effect interview
Only a couple of years ago, most of us were enthusiastic about the idea of Wi-Fi wireless mesh networks providing internet access in city centres. But the idea is not living up to the hype. AsUSA Todayreports:Plans to blanket cities across the nation with low-cost or free wireless Internet access are being delayed or abandoned because they are proving to be too costly and complicated. Houston, San Francisco, Chicago and other cities are putting proposed Wi-Fi networks on hold."Wi-Fi woes everywhere you turn," says Russell Hancock of Silicon Valley Network, a troubled Wi-Fi project for 40 towns in California's high-tech corridor.TechNewsWorld takes much the same line in a big two-part feature,What's Eating Citywide Wi-Fi:"The problems of Wi-Fi aren't just the sloppy, hysterically hopeful business models. They include security issues -- no agency of the federal government will use Wi-Fi due to its security problems -- technical issues, and most damning of all -- the fact that almost no one uses it outside of the home or small business office," David P McClure, president and CEO of the US Internet Industry Association, told TechNewsWorld."Nowhere has Wi-Fi attracted a significant audience of paying users -- nowhere. There are no success stories in muni Wi-Fi, just failures that have not yet occurred. Not here, not in Europe, not in Asia -- nowhere," McClure asserted.McClure represents a group that is not all that wild about municipal Wi-Fi -- because it could hurt the ISP business -- but journalist Glenn Fleishman is also quoted, saying:"Big-city Wi-Fi is dead at the moment, because the cost and requirements were a big mismatch with where the money can come from for the projects. EarthLink offered too much, realized it, and pulled back, but no one is stepping up to take their place because no other firms could build San Francisco, Houston, Chicago or other cities and make money, either," commented Glenn Fleishman, a journalist and veteran Wi-Fi industry observer.Anyone forWiMax?
Google hassort-of-not-really-releaseda new feature,Shared Stuff, via a little "share" button onGoogle video pages.Clicking the Share button summons a pop-up that offers three choices: Share, Email and More. The Share section lets you add the Web page to your "My Shared Stuff page" and make it "publicly visible". You can also add a comment. The More button provides "More ways to share this page" including Facebook, Furl, Delicious and Reddit.You can add a Share button to your browser, so you can use the feature with any Web page.The independentGoogle Operating Systemblog has pictures that show how it works.However, as several comments have pointed out, Shared Stuff looks like a blatant rip-off ofBzzter!, and uses the same icon. [Fromhere, as hauntedtapedeck says in a comment.] However, there arelots of servicesthat do the same thing, or something similar. Yahoo's Delicious is probably the most obvious.Read/Write Webhas a brief review of the good and bad points of the Google offering, but it's pretty bad. As Marshall Kirkpatrick says: "The worst thing about Google Shared Items is that it doesn't really work." His other complaints include: "There's no integration with Google Reader Shared Items," "There's no data export," and "The metadata is a mess. The RSS feeds look awful."Google's entire strategy is based on doing things that other people have been doing for years, but doing them better (search, Gmail, Gtalk, maps etc). Shared Stuff still has some way to go.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
It's impossible not to be fascinated by the fallout over the hole blown in Northern Rock's finances by - apparently - its reliance on money which relied on loans which came from derivatives built on bonds issued against sub-prime loans in the US. (Something like that.)What's been overlooked is that so much of this was a software-driven problem in the first place. Yet unlike most software issues, this stuff worked perfectly well. It didn't break. It did exactly what it was meant to all the time. The problem for the designers of the software, and the people who used it, was that there was one factor they couldn't program in: the people who'd be affected by its decisions.When the software said to take the loans, the bankers did. There had to be some knowledge that some sub-prime mortgages would never last to maturity - that's got to be factored in to any risky loan. But what hadn't been foreseen was how people would react on hearing how many of those loans failed. It produced a feedback loop which might be positive or negative. And any engineer will tell you there's a world of difference between systems based on the two.It's easy to lose sight of how software-driven today's money market is. An interesting post by Paul Kedrosky points out thathedge funds are the new software companies- while what we usually think of as "software" companies are actually marketing arms with a small software house attached."Here is a factoid that jumped out at me yesterday, one having to do with the ratio of software developers to non-developers at a major quant fund versus a major software company," he wrote: "Oracle (56,000 empl.): 1 - 8 (one developer for every eight employees); [hedge fund] Renaissance Technologies (178 empl.): 2 -3 (two developers for every three employees)".Scary, surely.Renaissance Technologiessays that it has "a long record of producing superior returns for our clients by adhering to mathematical and statistical methods in the design and execution of our investment programs. We currently have more than 260 employees, and manage over $30bn."I don't know whether Kedrosky or the website is correct - I suspect the $30bn has shrunk a bit, but it's still looking for programmers with "Bachelor's, Master's, or Ph.D.  in Computer Science, Mathematics, or Physics", experience in C++ in Unix, who'd like to earn between $125,000 and $250,000. You do have to go and live in Long Island, though.The problem with these models, however, is that they cannot cope with the wayward patterns of humans. We fib to people who are selling us the chance to buy a house. The people selling us the chance to buy the house, meanwhile, fib to us about the interest rate. (Many sub-prime loans were on an "Adjustable Rate Mortgage, whichleapt in cost after a year or two.) And so worthless loans were created.Then when the people who are on solid loans, or are creditors - like so many of the Northern Rock customers who queued up - hear about this, and react in a chaotic manner.It's that unpredictable element that throws the feedback loop completely out - and no amount of programming will be able to forecast it exactly. Even if you could find someone smart enough to want to live in Long Island who could also somehow put the "human element" into your financial forecasts, you'd only be able to get approximations of the truth - rough estimates of how many adjustable-rate mortgages will turn sour, or how people will react to hearing that their mortgage lender is built on uncertain foundations.Actually, statisticians know a technique for working out what outputs these random inputs can produce: you keep trying the calculation until you see what makes it go mad. It's like predicting the weather - probably it won't rain, but there might be a thunderstorm.Given the way that the markets have swung from panic to reassurance and back again, and the way they've been playing with the money, the name of this technique is apposite: it's called the Monte Carlo method.
A few weeks ago we posited about the future of games in this ever-interactive world (can't find the link - damn this new search system). Almost as an addendum to that, I've stumbled across an old article about Amy Jo Kim, game designer and author ofCommunity Building on the Web, and her son Gabriel inCnetwhich describes "Generation We" (should that be Wii?)'s media consumption habits:Certainly, Gabriel is growing up in a computer-savvy family with parents who, as game designers, encourage use of technology. They own a TiVo, so when they do watch TV, it's time-shifted without commercials. Gabe and his dad also play on Sony's PlayStation 2--games as well as other titles like the instrument software Guitar Hero. Though Gabriel parents imposed a limit of only two hours daily in front of a screen--TV, PC or game console--he's tuned to a world where he controls media, not the other way around.As Amy says on her blog,Gabriel is growing up in a world where he has choice and control in virtually all his media experience. Very different than the linear, non-interactive media landscape that I grew up with.What in the world is going to happen when kids Gabriel's age startmakinggames instead of just playing them?
Sure, Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4 look to have sewn up the first person shooter market for 2007 but for those of us who want something a little more cerebral from their console thenMass Effectlooks like the one to get. A sci-fi role playing game Mass Effect, for the Xbox 360, is a character driven adventure that will bring a warm glow to anyone who has played Knights of the Old Republic or Baldur's Gate. Of course, we don't know yet whether it will it match the quality of either, but my initial play through of the first hour suggests things are looking good. Oh, and the Blade Runner style 80s electronic soundtrack is fantastic too. But that's enough with the preview hype... I recently sat down with Greg Zeschuk, president of the developer Bioware, and talked freedom, story and how the Wii needs deeper games.How much freedom is in the game?You can spend a lot of time in the non-core worlds. One of the things we really wanted with KOTOR (Knights of the Old Republic) was the ability to do say, "hey, I'm going to take my spaceship and head off over there". But you can here. We've included this great story and a lot of freedom to explore. You can decide where to go. We offer advice but it's up to the player. You could, say, hack a computer and find out that a shipment from a certain planet is coming in and decide to head out there. I get so distracted when I play and this game offers that rollercoaster.How many hours do you think the core story will take to play through?I guess 20 or 30 hours, although this is not set in stone. It depends on how you play. Some guys will rush through while others will explore and take it at a slower pace. I guess we were aiming for a similar size to KOTOR but there were a couple of things at the end of KOTOR that in hindsight we would have changed, mainly to do with player choice. So there'll be more freedom in Mass Effect. And most players don't have 40 hours to finish a game so if you can get it a little tighter, while retaining the depth for hardcore players, then that is what we are aiming for. It's a tough task!How important is story and characterisation to the game?Very important. When we sat down and talked about what we wanted to make the story was an integral part. We have a very involved writing process at the company with lots of peer review. Our other games, like Dragon Age, are writer heavy too, and editing and consistency is vital. We edit a lot more than we used to in the Baldur's Gate days. Given the graphics of the time text descriptions were essential to describe the mood of the characters. This is much less important now when we have proper facial expressions and it is easier to convey. One of our goals as a company is to make the best story driven games around. And yes, even Sonic RPG will have a decent storyHow may endings will there be?There are a matrix of endings and sequences. There are more than 3 or 4 and lots of variations depending on what you have done in the game. Mass Effect is set up to be a trilogy so the ending also as to set up the next game. But there are two sequences where you make massive decisions.How clear is the good/evil setup this time?KOTOR was quite distinct in this but Mass Effect is a bit more subtle. It's more of a ruthlessness scale as you have something to do and you need to do it. How you do it is the key to affecting the game Alienating all the other races can make a real difference.Are the achievements any impact on the game? For example if you give an achievement for doing one thing in the game are you expecting everyone to do it to get the achievement and so miss out on other things in the story?We've designed it so that you can get all the achievements unless you replay the game. One really interesting thing is the way the achievements come back into gameplay. So if you've used a power a certain number of times on a previous run through and got the achievement a future character may have it as one of their starting powers when you begin again. Achievements allow us to add some quite cool things. Also there is ton of equipment you can get by exploring in the game, like high level armour, which really adds to it. It's not Diablo but equipment is really important to the game.How is important is the music to the game?Really important. We wanted to capture that 80s sci-fi feel. Visuals are one thing but sound is vital too and those that pick up on it will really find it adds something to their experience of Mass Effect. And yes, Vangelis was an influence but we had four composers working on the game.When I last saw the game there was a lot of emphasis on the way your character can interrupt another while they are speaking. Is that still a part of the game?Yes, it's part of the whole influencing process. But it's not a huge part of the game but you can certainly interrupt in certain ways. There's hidden little neat things in the dialogue tree that you can find.How did you balance between shooter and RPG?A large part was thoughtful trial and error. One of the biggest challenges we had was getting to the point where it was tactical enough. It's almost like a chess game with the shooting as your interface. Microsoft has a tremendous user testing lab and we worked closely with them on so many elements of the user interface.The market for gaming has expanded so much in the last couple of years. What impact, if any, do trends like the Wii and casual gaming have on your development process?We do agonise over this a bit. We (Bioware) know who we are and what we do. Sonic RPG has a different audience as does our other title Dragon Age. I mean people say WoW is a mainstream game, but is it? It's clearly a phenomenon but 9-million people playing it out of the full potential population total is still small percentage. I mean how many people are playing Hearts online? It is very difficult though, it's like we are speaking different languages. We never want to dumb down our games though. You can still have a complex core, but the way you touch that has to be done right. I'd love to see a really complex game on the Wii with the ease of use that their controller gives. I don't want to play party games; I want something that makes me go wow. Maybe Mario Galaxy could be the one. We'll see.
Kits that claim to help people hack into computers have been discovered for sale on the auction website eBay.Security experts found a selection of CDs, DVDs and programs for sale on eBay that promise to help buyers learn how to break into computers over the net.One CD - claiming to be on sale "for educational use only" - promises details of how to access other people's computers and contains a selection of programs commonly used for hacking. It is available through the site for &pound;5.99.Many of the programs form the basic building blocks for computer crime, allowing even inexperienced hackers to find ways to get inside their victims' computers, or of masking their identities.Although such tools are often downloaded for free or sold on the black market, such trade usually happens in remote  corners of the internet."This is a serious development," said Geoff Sweeney of the security company Tier-3, which spotted the auctions. "It basically puts high level hacking tools ... into the hands of almost any internet user."Programs for sale include "email bombers" - used to send thousands of spam messages, often containing viruses - and software that can be used to crack open protected files and passwords.Since amendments to the Computer Misuse Act last year, it is illegal to supply software and tools with the knowledge that they will be used to commit crimes.But the tool kits are usually sold with a disclaimer, or claim to be provided for use in so-called "ethical hacking" - where legitimate security researchers test to find potential weak spots.In a statement, eBay said it was working to prevent illegal sales from taking place."We have very strict and detailed rules permitting only lawful and legitimate sales on the site, and a huge amount is done to ensure that these are upheld."It is not the first time concerns have been raised over the availability of hacking tool kits on the site. This month another batch of programs used for computer hacking was spotted on eBay, including one program, created by Russian hackers, that enables even inexperienced internet surfers to perform a huge number of hacking tasks.
Developed byEyeMazefor the Shibaura Institute of Technology,Grow Islandis a simple little browser game designed to show prospective students how the real-life applications of the courses on offer interact with each other. Your job is simply to click on the different options at the bottom of the screen - chemistry, architecture, computer science, etc - and watch as these are applied to the island. Get them in the right order and the island's facilities 'level up'.Give it a go - the graphics are really cute and the music will drive your workmates bonkers.(ViaTigsource)
There's a story on some of thegadget sitesto the effect that Catalina Spas is offering a 61-inch Theater Spa which, saysEngadget, includes a 61 inch LCD HDTV that "automatically stores along the side wall of the spa and raises and lowers for viewing."Sounds good. But is the story sensible? Is it even true?Well, if you are planning to watch TV in the tub, 61 inches is probably far too big for a built in screen. Something smaller would be fine. Catalina Spas also offers 22in and 17in versions.Whether Catalina Spas actually offers a 61-inch LCD screen is also open to doubt. Its website only mentions theOmega 42 TV Spa, which has an "unbelievable" 42-inchplasmascreen and seats five.The ultimate source of the story could be theHGTV MarketPlace, which is offering the "61 inch Theater Spa" for sale. However, it doesn't actually have any to sell: it just links to the Catalin Spa enquiries page.So did a 42in plasma screen in a five-seat whirlpool bath simply turn into a 61in LCD TV screen in a four-seater through human error?Any site that wants to start checking should also watch out for headlines like Engadget's "Catalina Spas integrates 61-inch LCD TV into jacuzzi". Jacuzzi is aregistered trademark, and not one that's owned by Catalina Spas.
Stephen Fry - you know, appearances in Blackadder, reads JK Rowling books aloud, did stuff with Hugh "call me House" Laurie - has begun blogging. (We've, umm, borrowed the picture on the right from it.) Given that he's actually a complete gadget freak, who reckons he got the second Mac in the UK (Douglas Adams got the first), has for years gotten his hands on every smartphone he can; I recall him being hired by Psion to unveil something - the ReVo, I think - and using his dry, sarcastic wit to chide them not-so-gently, in his speech to the press launching the damn thing, for not having worked out Mac connectivity.Hisfirst proper posting is on smartphones, and it's not for the hard of thinking, nor the short of time: it runs to 5,300 words and change, even though as he notes he'swriting this in short bursts of time between filming in the middle of rural Norfolk, where GPRS, let alone EDGE, is a rare, momentary treat. This means I haven't been able to check up on all my facts all the time: sometimes a tethered modem DUN connection allows me to jack into the matrix, but mostly I'm in a field fondly fingering a phone.He calls Palm's recently-cancelled Foleo "one of the most astonishing public suicide attempts in the history of this industry", tries the HTC WinMob, and curses the Sony Ericsson W900i as "a crushing, lowering, fury-inducing disappointment. Just how dumb are the software engineers, designers and marketeers at Sony E? Believe me, I so wanted this to be good. Instead, it is nothing more than a gesture, an under-considered, badly implemented nod at the market."And he has an iPhone. Which works: "I have a full working model because, as a green carded US resident alien, I have an American bank account and billing address, without which AT&amp;T authorisation would be impossible."Does he like it? Sort of. "It's one thing to want to keep the proprietary system closed, but to present a device sealed in digital Araldite is a Bad Idea." Physical keyboards? "I'm sorry Steve, but physical keyboards are okay. They're fine. When in your iPhone introductory keynote late last year you dissed the stylus and keyboard, you may have noticed a deafening silence as tumbleweed and sage-brush whizzed through the hall. It is certainly true that the virtual kb used in the iPhone gets better the more you use it. It is also true that the glossary autocorrect system is immensely impressive. But I challenge anyone to type an email as fast on an iPhone than I can on a BB [BlackBerry] or Treo."There's more, much more. Clearly, he's a man with a budget and time on his hands for gizmos. (And he'll tell you the difference between disinterested and uninterested, though of course Guardian readers know that already...) Stephen, any chance you could you drop us a line about reviewing?
"Surfing the net has become an obsession for many Americans with the majority of US adults feeling they cannot go for a week without going online and one in three giving up friends and sex for the Web," reportsReuters.The report is based on a survey of 1,011 American adults conducted by advertising agency JWT between September 7 and 11. It says:More than a quarter of respondents -- or 28% -- admitted spending less time socializing face-to-face with peers because of the amount of time they spend online.It also found that 20% said they spend less time having sex because they are online.The article doesn't say how many people have sex while they are online....Update: The Scripps Newspaper Group's Knoxnews has more info: seeOther findings from the survey.
NBC is launching a new service that, like the BBC's Listen Again, will enable consumers to watch shows free for a week after they have been broadcast. In apress release, it says:NBC.com today announced the launch of its new service, "NBC Direct," which will allow users to download and view NBC's popular primetime and late-night entertainment programming on their desktops for up to one week after broadcast. This new feature provides yet another platform on which fans will be able to enjoy NBC Entertainment content.The downloads will be ad-supported and expire after a week. Later, users will be able to pre-order their downloads. And as usual, the system will only work on Windows PCs to start with -- presumably using Microsoft's openly-licensed DRM.The "yet another platform" bit refers to the fact that the same shows are available for money from Amazon Unbox, and will be available from Hulu, as I reported here before inNBU hopes Hulu and Amazon will mean it doesn't need iTunes.Since many fans of TV series such as Heroes, The Office, and 30 Rock will go to the NBC site for information, it makes perfect sense to offer them catch-up downloads. Since they'd have had to suffer the ads if they'd watched the programmes live, it also makes sense to provide ad-supported downloads. Whether it will add up to a significant number of downloads is another matter, but by trying different approaches, NBC will be able to find out.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
I've changed to TalkTalk Broadband, but I can keep my old email address if I sign up for BT Premium Mail at £1.50 a month. I can't do this because I am using an unsupported browser (Firefox) and IE7 won't install. I am using a Dell Latitude with Windows 2000 and IE5.Patrick OrmeYou should be able to install IE6 frommicrosoft.com. Alternatively you could sign up using someone else's PC: since you were able to access your web-based email before, IE5 should still work. However, IE6 is a worthwhile upgrade.In the longer term, you should retrieve all your old email from BT -- Premium Mail works with Outlook Express -- and switch to a service that doesn't depend on your ISP. For example, you could take out your own domain name and use it with Google's Gmail, which is a better web-based mail service than BT's, and free. You could also considerFastmail.fm, or a similar service.(The last two sentences were cut from the printed version of the column.)
Away from all the foofaraw of the iPhone's launch on Tuesday, I began wondering about an Apple product that - breaking the company's usual omert&agrave; about "forthcoming products" - has been pre-announced for absolutely ages, and shown off more than once, yet which people are barely talking about.The product is Leopard, the next release of Apple's OS X operating system. Steve Jobs showed some of Leopard off in summer 2006. And then he showed it off again in June, at Apple's Worldwide Developer's Conference. (We found the latter abit underwhelming.)I doubt even the average Mac fan could name more than one or two of Leopard's new features. There's its "Time Machine" backup feature, and the "Spaces" system that lets you create multiple simultaneous work areas. After that, off the top of my head, err ...So why aren't people more excited? It's very different from the buzz ahead of the launch of the present version, Tiger, at the end of April 2005. People were excited about the Spotlight search facility, the Dashboard widgets system, Smart Folders to create dynamic views of files or emails, and RSS detection built into the Safari web browser.And now? Peoples' reactions could so far be summed up as "meh". Partly because Apple has - unlike Microsoft with Vista - kept the development cycle tightly private; partly because we've seen it demonstrated for so long that we have become distracted by newer, shinier toys. Anyone want an iPhone?But I think too that operating systems are sooo last century. The interesting stuff is happening on the web: mapping, social networking, mashups. What of those can you do on a machine alone? What of those actually demands regular backups or multiple desktops? Increasingly, we let our email live on our computer and in the "cloud", so we have a backup online or offline. Documents exist in more than one place - usually with the person who sent them, and the receiver. (And often on both's webmail.)Look at the lack of excitement over Vista. Dell had to re-introduce an option to include XP rather than Vista on new PCs because so many people shunned it. A year after its completion, people still mutter about device drivers not being ready. The graphics twiddles add nothing to its usability. Like sweets, the initial buzz is superseded by a gnawing hunger for something substantial.But this week's ruling in favour of the European Commission implies that building too much into an OS puts Microsoft at risk of huge fines and being forced to reveal valuable interoperability codes. How much simpler just to build a less complex operating system whose core elements are speed, security and stability, and strip extra functionality off into applications that you add as free downloads or access via a browser.But going down that track would doom Microsoft. Who would pay to "upgrade" to an OS with less apparent functionality than its predecessor? You might as well install Linux, which fits the model of the stripped-down function with add-ons for everything.So despite the incredible pain that Vista caused Microsoft - years late, wildly expensive, still not wildly popular - the company has no choice but to keep baking more stuff into it.And that means Apple, too, is tied into trying to come up with smarter things to add in to OS X - even if they're really just pure eye candy. Its salvation is that it makes most of its money from selling hardware, not software.So that lack of excitement about Leopard? It's because we don't need it.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I'm a little late with this, but it's worth posting about. WoW guild, Abhorrent Taboo, has been forcibly disbanded by the game's creator, Blizzard.Accordingto The Register:The guild [...] on WoW's Ravenholdt server, attracted gamers through its participation in Erotic Roleplay (ERP). In the case of massive multiplayer online games, this usually involves grinding avatars together to simulate sexual encounters and erotically-charged text chatting. In large, exposure to unsolicited ERP is extremely limited and is something WoW users generally tolerate, although with a fair amount of skittishness and deprecating chuckles, as kinks often are.What concerned Blizzard was the mention of 'ageplay' in the guild's welcome post. Although Abhorrent Taboo insisted that its members had to be 18 or over, the notion of even simulated paedophilia in the WoW universe was deemed unacceptable.It raises the question, once again, about how responsible the provider of a virtual world can be for the activities that take place in its domain. Does it natually follow that a game developer should become a censor, and how far should companies be held accountable for the actions of their customers?
The Tokyo Game Show (TGS) has kicked off, with Sonyannouncinga new vibration-enabled PS3 controller - Dualshock 3 - and the purchase of Motorstorm developers Evolution Studios. Of course, Sony's Phil Harrison recently described vibration as alast-generation feature- clearly the legal resolution of theImmersion disputehas changed his mind.So what else did Sony show? Well anyone waiting for Home, Sony's online world for PS3, will be disappointed by the delayed and revised launch date of Spring 2008. Sony president Kaz Hirai also focused heavily on the PS2, with a promised expansion - new games, new markets - of the ageing console's business. Considering the fact that PS2 consistently outsells the PS3 in Japan this isn't entirely surprising but it does highlight the PS3's sluggish start. And things don't look likely to improve in the short term, with no PS3 price cut announced at the show. But with the Wii changing everything and the 360 doing the business in the US, Sony'sarrogance of oldhas been replaced by a sharing, caring plan to provide help and feedback for game publishers. Whether this new "hug a coder" strategy will work remains to be seen but the PS3 currently needs all the friends it can get.
What secrets lie within the textures of our games? Are games capable of introducing symbolic messages to the degree as great novelists, painters and, er, gardeners?Over onTerra Nova,Nate Combsasks for readers to fess up about hidden messages they've uncovered in the landscapes of computer games. It's a lovely idea: that designers plant symbolic representations into games that many will blindly strafe past, while others will recognise their meanings. Based on a Time Team special (Secrets of the Stately Garden, aired on Channel 4 in late August) in which the inimitable Tony Robinson seeks out the saucy hidden messages planted by gardeners in the landscapes, he comments:I am trying to think if there is any comparable example in virtual worlds where messages are puzzled into the backdrop after the backdrop has been cast. To scope this a bit:I don't mean "easter-eggs" where a developer (traditionally) or a user (user-created content) creates a narrow portal into some otherness;I also don't mean "sloganeering" - e.g. corpse graffiti, arranging consumables or cans (as in UO or Eve Online, respectively) to spell words, etc.User-created content (e.g. Second Life) presents an interesting challenge - i.e. should a virtualized political campaign be considered on par with a politicized English garden?I'll leave (3.) to the Second Lifers (et al) to decide, but I am hoping for examples of where messages and symbols have become integrated within the fabric of that world. Think organic and gardens. If you can think of an example, let me then ask, has the message then improved or distracted your journey?Thoughts? Are there any subtle symbolic messages in levels you have seen?
I was stunned at your advice to search for a program called smitfraud on Google (Virus Unprotected, July 26). Everything that comes up implies Smitfraud is something to remove!Malcolm RundThe reader was trying to remove two of the many rogue antivirus programs, none of which is called smitfraud. That's just the term used by the antivirus industry. The cure often involves running SiRi'sSmitFraudFix.exeprogram, and searching for smitfraud eliminates thousands of other malware problems from the search results.
The recent update on Windows Live Hotmail appears to stop me accessing attachments: it just says "web page not available".Humphrey EvansIt could be a temporary glitch, which is not unlikely when tens of millions of users are being upgraded across thousands of servers.Usually you can access an attachment by clicking on it. However, Windows Live Hotmail is very protective. It scans attachments with Trend Micro antivirus software and blocks those that contain viruses. Also, it will block attachments that could be executed and damage your PC. This includes all files ending with .bat, .com, .exe, .js and many more extensions (see the Microsoft Knowledge Base article 883260 atsupport.microsoft.com). In this case, one workaround is to rename the file so that it ends in something not executable, such as .txt or .zip.You could also install theWindows Live Mail betaon your PC. This is a replacement for Outlook Express. Enter your Hotmail details and it will download all your mail automatically.
I've changed to TalkTalk Broadband, but I can keep my old email address if I sign up for BT Premium Mail at &pound;1.50 a month. I can't do this because I am using an unsupported browser (Firefox) and IE7 won't install. I am using a Dell Latitude with Windows 2000 and IE5.Patrick OrmeJS:You should be able to install IE6 frommicrosoft.com. Alternatively you could sign up using someone else's PC: since you were able to access your web-based email before, IE5 should still work. However, IE6 is a worthwhile upgrade. In the longer term, you should retrieve all your old email from BT - Premium Mail works with Outlook Express - and switch to a service that doesn't depend on your ISP.
I am receiving hundreds of spam emails - I have deleted more than 650 since September 1. Pipex says there is nothing it can do, and suggests Mailwasher.Ray StandenMailwasher should solve the problem because it lets you delete email on the server. You can download it fromMailwasher.net. However, Pipex's spam-checking sounds somewhat lax if it lets a lot of spam through: ask if it can increase the setting to block more. You may also have a "catch all" or "virtual domain" email address, which will accept anything. If so, ask if it can change it so your mailbox only accepts email that uses your precise address. Again, however, you should be thinking about changing to an email provider that isn't your ISP.Comment: I should more accurately have said "changing your email address to one that isn't provided by your ISP."
If you have bought a top-end phone over the past year or so, chances are that it sports the A2DP version of Bluetooth. This is designed to let you stream audio wirelessly from the phone to another device, usually a Bluetooth headset. Now Parrot has become one of the first makers to offer a speaker system that is wireless-ready. You simply pair the Bluetooth phone with the Party and you can listen to music on the set within 10 metres of the handset. The rather clunky speakers work from either from the mains or via supplied rechargeable batteries. Unfortunately, battery power is only four hours. The speakers were easy to get running as they paired quickly with my Bluetooth PC and a phone. Sound quality was largely what I'd expected with the speakers' output of 3 watts per channel sounding fine in a small room, but struggling when I pushed the volume up. Priced at $80 (&pound;40), this is a good value speaker system.parrot.com/uk
The first fruits of the Free Our Data campaign have begun to appear, with the announcement this week by the Office of Public Sector Information (OPSI) that it has launched a web forum through which the public may "request the release of government data that may have economic value".The creation of theweb channelwas primarily driven by the recommendation in Tom Steinberg's and Ed Mayo's Power of Information Review, published earlier this year by the Cabinet Office. But Guardian Technology was invited by Michael Wills, the minister in charge of OPSI, to coordinate on the creation and promotion of the channel as a direct consequence of the lobbying for the Free Our Data campaign (The minister will hear you now, July 26).The channel will not necessarily point to free data - but might help as a halfway house, in creating a repository of datasets that are known to be available from government departments. At present, there is no direct way of knowing what data any department might have available that could be reused commercially.The Free Our Data campaign argues that non-personal data held in this way by the government should be available for free, for unlimited commercial reuse - a move that would energise the economy and generate taxes that would make up for any income "lost" from selling the data.Meanwhile, last week Ordnance Survey made a tentative move into an area already full of commercial possibility, as it unveiled a beta version of a new mapping portal,Explore. The organisation is at pains to point out that the portal is not an implementation of the OpenSpace system, previewed in November last year, to let developers create mashups of data with maps.Instead, Explore simply lets people create walks including waypoints which are then stored on the OS's servers, and allow viewing at resolutions down to 1:50,000 - only as good as the Landranger map series, rather than the 1:25,000 Explorer series often used by walkers.The portal came in for criticism from observers such as theOgle Earthblog, which noted that there are similar private-sector offerings already, and added: "The other prominent example from the past few years is France's government-funded G&eacute;oportail. Both France's IGN and and UK's OS focus on providing a closed, proprietary portal to their data. OS then hopes that a crowd of users will add value by adding walking and cycling routes to it, as if this will make up for the fact that we can't make our own route sharing sites from the base data via an API [for creating data mashups]." It concluded: "So the larger question needs to be asked: What is a government agency doing entering a market niche that is serviced much better and for free by the private sector?" Perhaps making the OS data available for free would be a better move.&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Videogames have always played with death. Even the earliest arcade ones offered several lives, diluting the concept of finality. In first-person shooters, a player can die and respawn dozens of times, reducing mankind's greatest and most frightening mystery to a momentary inconvenience.We've previously looked at the historical reasons for this (Why do we have to die in games?, July 26). But contemporary developers want to go further: like goth musicians, they want to stretch death out, revel in it, turn it into a feature rather than a moment of closure.This fad started, perhaps, with Ubisoft's excellent Prince of Persia: Sands of Time (2003), in which the player could rewind time after dying, allowing another chance to attempt the previously fatal manoeuvre.In shooters, the barriers between life and death are even more blurred. EA's Battlefield series allows players to become medics who can revive comrades after fatal wounds. When a comrade falls in the squad-based title, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, you need to weigh up the risks of sending in another soldier to revive him, making mortality a tactical consideration.The concept of combat altruism is taken to its logical conclusion in the forthcoming co-operative blaster Army of Two. In this title, two players join forces to defeat an army. When one player is gunned down, a mini-game sequence kicks off in which the other player bashes controller buttons to effect CPR while the other participant directs his dying character away from a consuming source of white light. Players can also feign death, fooling enemies into a false sense of security before leaping up and pumping the trigger. It's a feature used in other shoot-'em-up newcomers like Haze and Unreal Tournament 3. Again, they're saying, don't trust death: it's not what it looks like.Call of Duty 4, the latest instalment of the popular WW2 series set for release in November, offers a more imaginative spin on this theme. By competing successfully online, players can earn useful new skills: one is named Last Stand and allows mortally wounded combatants to blast out one final clip of ammo before fading away. This concept is no doubt drawn from the familiar action movie trope in which a seemingly dead character revives himself for one last decisive shot. Whatever, it sure is fun.Videogames are maturing: they can comment on themselves, they can play with expectations and conventions. Games are a two-fingered salute to the Grim Reaper. They say, you've no power here.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Well, it's lovely to look at with its glossy screen and candy-coloured icons. But it's thin on pros and fat on cons. The first problem is the price: &pound;269. That's quite a lot for an 8GB music player, and it's an awful lot for a mobile, given that in the UK we pay little or even nothing for other advanced handsets.Sure, you actually own the device if you buy an iPhone - the usual deal is that the network owns your handset and makes it hard for you to do stuff you want to on it. Usually if you shell out for a handset of your own rather than one subsidised by a network, it's unlocked and you can use it with any provider. The iPhone gives you the worst of both worlds: you pay a lot for a phone that you can only use with one network.Second is the price of the 18-month contract you'll be locked into with O2, which Steve Jobs declared on Tuesday was "the best fit for Apple". The cheapest is &pound;35 a month, which gives you 200 voice minutes and 200 texts. For &pound;45 you get 600 minutes and 500 texts, while &pound;55 gets you 1,200 minutes and 500 texts. Not cheap.Mind you, if you're a big texter, you might not like the iPhone: early reports from the US suggested that texting on the touchscreen is less than wonderful.Oh, and you can't use custom ringtones, either: you're stuck with the ones on the phone, or those you buy at great expense from the iTunes Store once you've bought the song as well. Using your own sounds (your baby laughing?) or tunes, though, is out - unlike almost any other music-playing phone.If you're a Mac user, you'll love the fact that you can sync it seamlessly with your iCal calendar and address book data. Syncing with Windows data, though, seems to be trickier, judging by the much-blogged experience of early American adopters.On the pro side, all the tariffs give you unlimited data, visual voicemail and free access to 7,500 Wi-Fi hotspots operated by The Cloud. Visual voicemail lets you choose which voicemails to listen to first, so that you don't have to listen to your mum droning on before picking up a more important message.The data package sounds generous, though of course there are conditions. "Unlimited" means 200MB a month, which should be enough for most people. Access to The Cloud's Wi-Fi hotspots is also billed as "unlimited" - but actually means 60 hours a month.However, unless you're in one of those Wi-Fi hotspots, you won't be downloading stuff particularly fast: one of the biggest disappointments with the first European version of the iPhone is that, like the US, it's only a 2.5G device: no 3G means no HSDPA means no speedy downloads of YouTube videos.Finally, if you're seduced more by the design than by the functionality of the phone, there's always the iPod touch, which is much the same under the hood, but isn't a phone and costs &pound;70 less for the same 8GB.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A Californian company which specialises in subverting the spread of copyrighted files on peer-to-peer (P2P) networks has seen thousands of internal emails - detailing, among others, its work with the US government to trace pornography and the creation of a fake download site to catch file-sharers - leaked online after an employee's Gmail account was hacked.Media Defender has worked for companies including Universal Music and artists such as the rap star Jay-Z, and had moved to try to limit the number of downloads of Michael Moore's new film, Sicko, by flooding P2P networks with decoy versions.Company workingsBut the workings of the company have been spread in the most embarrassing form over the Net by Torrentfreak (summarised attorrentfreak.com). The emails, apparently downloaded from the Gmail account of Jay Maris, one of the staff who had cc'd all his email to the external system during the past nine months, show that Media Defender was working with the US Justice Department to try to uncover as much detail as possible about people who tried to access child pornography via P2P networks (a transcript of a phone call relating to the work is atpastebin.com), and that it had set up a fake P2P site - called MiiVi - with the aim of building up a list of P2P users. (The site was taken offline after its association with Media Defender was uncovered.) It then tried again, with a site called Viide.com.The entire 700MB file of emails is now circulating on P2P networks. One of the messages is reported to discuss the possibility of getting the PCs of people who downloaded a client application from MiiVi to begin sending corrupted or incomplete files on to the file-sharing networks, in effect gumming up the networks with broken downloads.File-sharing networks constitute a major part of the data that travels the internet every day: about 37% is thought to be due to file-sharing, with web downloads of video from sites such as YouTube and the billions of pictures from web pages just exceeding it at 39%. Email is reckoned to make just 2% of the total. More than 10m machines are logged on to file-sharing networks, and more than 1bn audio tracks swapped each month according to Big Champagne Online Media Measurement, which tracks file-sharing networks.One of the emails to Media Defender came from Universal Music, where an executive was wondering if there was any data to back up the idea that lawsuits by the music industry were leading to less file-sharing among educational institutions. Randy Saaf, its chief executive, clearly thought not - and forwarded the message to five employees with the note: "Take a moment to laugh to yourselves."Media Defender has not been shy about publicity for its work: in April Saaf told Guardian Technology that the very openness of P2P networks to all users made it easier for companies like his to subvert them: "These are open trust networks, and they can't authenticate all of the material on the network." But Saaf is not an ideologue: in 2003, he told aSenate hearingin which Senator Orrin Hatch called for technological measures to destroy the computers of people who illegally downloaded copyrighted material that "no one is interested in destroying anyone's computer".Saaf told the Wall Street Journal that MiiVi had been a test site but that it was not intended to entrap users. However, that does not square with the efforts - detailed in the emails - to ensure that the site rose high up in Google rankings, and Saaf's dramatic response when the news of MiiVi's ownership leaked: "This is really fucked. Let's pull miivi offline," he wrote on July 3, after torrentfreak revealed the news.Although the revelations could boost Media Defender's media profile and its reputation as an effective counter to the spread of P2P files, the leak of the files and a dump of a huge database of its data tracking the spread of its decoy files across the Gnutella network will raise serious questions about its internal security.Striking goldOne theory explaining how Mairs' account was hacked is that in the course of his work he used his Gmail address to sign up for one of the file-sharing services he monitored. If his IP address - indicating where he connected from - pointed back towards Media Defender or Miivi, an administrator of the file-sharing service might have tested Mairs's login password on the Gmail account - and struck gold.Media Defender was not available to comment before press time.There is a certain irony in the release: last month a US judge threw out a lawsuit by TorrentSpy, a bittorrent search engine, even though it emerged that the Motion Picture Association of America had paid a hacker $15,000 (&pound;7,500) for illegally obtained emails sent between TorrentSpy's executives. The hacker rigged the email server so that every incoming and outgoing email to the company would be forwarded to a Gmail account. No money is thought to have changed hands over Media Defender's emails - but the damage to the company could add up to millions of dollars in lost reputation.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Adblock Plus, a browser plugin that erases advertisements from web pages, is a killer of a killer app - or at least it would be if it were to become widely popular. Right now, it sits like a coyote at the edge of the internet, quietly eyeing all the businesses it would happily devour.A plugin is a little piece of software that adds some new feature or function to a program. Dozens of useful plugins are available for the Firefox browser, which evolved from the once ubiquitous Netscape Navigator, but Adblock Plus is perhaps the most interesting of the bunch. As Noam Cohen recently wrote in The New York Times, it has the potential to be an "extreme menace to the online-advertising business model" because, after a quick and free installation, it "usually makes all commercial communication disappear".Since nearly the entire internet economy relies on advertising of one form or another, the widespread use of ad blockers could well devastate many businesses, from giants like Google and Yahoo! to scores of tiny startups. "If you believe in web 2.0 and/or if you believe in the concept of free," writes the bloggerMark Evans, "Adblock is pure evil."I recently gave Adblock Plus a try, along with another plugin called CustomizeGoogle, which strips ads from Google search results. I have to admit that I was impressed. Evil or not, experiencing the web without ads - or at least with a whole lot fewer ads - is awfully pleasant.Imagine that some boor has been yelling into your ear for so long that it's come to seem normal. Now imagine that he suddenly shuts up. That's the effect of ad blocking. It's like going back to the feel of the web in the early 1990s, before it was strip-malled.Some 2.5 million people already use Adblock Plus, estimates its inventor, Wladimir Palant, and the extension is being freshly downloaded betweeen 300,000 and 400,000 times a month. That's a lot of people, but it still represents only a tiny slice of the web-surfing population.The number of users of Adblock Plus and similar plugins is not yet high enough to spur a counterattack by the big guns in web advertising. In fact, most large internet companies are content to ignore ad blocking for the time being. They probably fear that criticising the plugins would only raise people's awareness of them.When Cohen asked Google for a comment on Adblock Plus, for example, it chose to keep mum. The company is in a particularly dicey position. The broad adoption of ad blocking software could undermine its business, yet an outright attempt to prohibit the use of such programs would run counter to its often-expressed commitment to give users what they want. If web users decide they don't want to see ads, Google would face an unpleasant dilemma. Either its business or its credibility would end up in tatters.That's why Google's best course - maybe its only course - is to continue to avoid any mention of Adblock Plus and hope that it remains a niche product. The odds would seem, at this point, to be in Google's favour. There's no evidence that Adblock Plus or similar products are about to go viral. In fact, there's little evidence that the masses view online ads as a nuisance.Then again, you never know. Viral events are unpredictable. One internet giant that did give Cohen a comment is Microsoft. While the company carefully avoided any endorsement of ad blocking plugins, it didn't criticise them either. Read its statement, in part: "Provided they have not been designed with malicious intent and do not compromise a user's privacy or security, Microsoft is pleased to see new add-ons that add to the range of options that users have for customising their browsing experience."Microsoft's laissez-faire attitude may seem surprising, but it reflects a cold strategic calculation. Because advertising represents a minuscule fraction of Microsoft's revenues, it knows that ad blockers pose a far greater threat to its arch-rival Google than to itself. As they say: the enemy of my enemy is my friend.&#183;Nicholas Carr's new book, The Big Switch, will be published in January. He blogs atroughtype.com&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The media player from iriver features a wide range of entertainment choices. Equipped with 1GB, 2GB or 4GB of internal memory (ranging in price from &pound;149 to &pound;209), it has the option to expand this via the miniSD slot. It plays various audio, picture and video formats, although with a 2.4" screen you're not going to be watching any long movies. Other features include an FM and a DAB radio. It's also designed to receive a DMB (digital multimedia broadcast) signal for digital programmes, but this is of little use unless you live in Korea. The menu is easy to navigate in theory, although iriver's D Click system makes it trickier than it should be. Rather than featuring buttons, you move forward and backwards through the menus by clicking the screen against the back casing. The necessitates a certain amount of "rocking space" between the front and the back of the player, and unfortunately makes it feel like it might fall apart at any minute.iriver.com
For at least a decade, the standard advice to every computer user has been to run antivirus software. But new, more commercial, more complex and stealthier types of malware have people in the industry asking: will antivirus software be effective for much longer? Among the threats they see are malware that uses the ability of the latest processors to run virtual machines that would be hidden from antivirus programs.Antivirus vendors, though, don't seem to think they have a problem. "Probably every year people say antivirus software is dead," says Eric Chen, a research manager at Symantec. Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at rival antivirus vendor Sophos, says: "We do, from time to time, see new ways of infecting computers ... But the way all those things actually would arrive at a computer would be through conventional methods." That is, no matter how a new piece of malicious code spreads or what it's going to try to do, it will still arrive at your machine as a piece of executable code that security software can detect before it does any damage.Changing threatsBesides, says Cluley: "Some parts of the software community may underestimate what antivirus software is these days. It's the same name, but we're not doing it the way we did it 20 years ago." For one thing, he says - and Chen says the same - today's AV software relies far less on virus signatures - code unique to each bit of malware - to detect an intrusion than many people suppose, and is constantly evolving. A year ago AV software couldn't handle rootkits (programs that hide themselves and take control of the computer); now almost every product can.Much good it does us. Pedro Bustamante, chief marketing officer for Spanish-based Panda Security, recently completed a survey of 1.5m consumer PCs and 17,809 computers in 1,206 company networks looking for all types of malware. Of the consumer PCs, only 37% had fully updated security protection - and of those, nearly a quarter were still infected. That's only 8.5% - but equates to 127,650 machines in the 1.5m sample. Of the corporate networks, 72% were infected.Threats have also become more transient: viruses attack for a couple of weeks and then are never seen again.Sophos and Symantec use heuristics to look for common behavioural patterns. And AV software is moving from blacklisting (barring bad stuff) to whitelisting (allowing only known good stuff).Meanwhile, rather than email, the fastest-growing threat is so-called drive-by attacks - malware downloaded automatically when you visit an infected website. Unlike email threats, you can't avoid this by using common sense and avoiding dodgy sites; Cluley says Sophos is seeing 29,000 new infected web pages a day, and 80% of these are not "dangerous areas". Instead, they're legitimate sites on anything from pottery to the Miami Dolphins and the Bank of India.The statistics on older types of malware alone are scary. Seven years ago, says Bustamante, there were maybe 100,000 to 300,000 viruses; now there are "millions and millions". And those use new techniques: 90% constantly modify their shells so their signature is never the same.Even more important, malware writers have changed from amateurs who want bragging rights to a full-blown criminal - and commercial - market. The chains of events leading to attacks can involve as many as six or seven different players: one hacks the website, another writes the exploit toolkit, a third writes the botnet and rents it out at 4&cent; per PC, and so on. If you know where to go, you can buy a one-day distributed denial of service (DDOS) attack for $100 (&pound;50), send 10m spam emails for $600, send 1m spam IMs for $150, or pick up 50Mb of stolen bank and credit card accounts for as little as $30.Today's malware is different, too: flamboyance has been replaced by stealth. The longer your virus can go undetected on a user's system the longer it can go on stealing money, bank accounts and credit card details. Today's malware writers want maximum effectiveness and a minimum of detection. Macs and Linux systems remain relatively untroubled because if you're after money, you go where the most users are. And that's Windows.What lies beneathPeter Gutmann, a researcher at the University of Auckland who presented the results of a study of the commercial market for malware at August's Defcon, estimates that a good virus programmer can make as much as $200,000 a year (here, a 660KB PDF). Alan Cox, an open-source security researcher, points out some additional possibilities. One is malware designed to sit under today's virtual machines. A proof-of-concept paper proposing such an attack, called Subvirt (PDF), appeared last year, written by three researchers from Microsoft and two from the University of Michigan. A presentation at last year's Black Hat security conference from Joanna Rutkowska, a researcher at Coseinc, a Singapore-based security company, covered a much leaner attack she calledBlue Pill, which targets the virtualisation built into Windows Vista and into current processors from both AMD and Intel.So far, these attacks are only theoretical. But, says Gerhard Eschelbeck, chief technology officer at the security company Webroot: "Probably by next year's Black Hat [in early August] we'll see malware leveraging virtual machine techniques in the real world."Meanwhile the proliferation of short-lived viruses - Cluley says Sophos is seeing 9,000 new pieces of malware a month, or 300 per day - has forced Webroot to change how it works. No longer can it wait for customers to report a new virus. Instead, says Eschelbeck: "We have to hunt for malware on the internet as researchers."New layer of securityBustamante is certain that antivirus software is becoming less effective, along with the security suites they're packaged with. Panda's idea for the near future is adding a new layer of security that it calls collective intelligence. He calls it the "web 2.0 version of security": instead of keeping each user's computer separate, it's scanned from the "cloud". This approach, he says, allows much bigger signature files and can detect targeted attacks because all computers are visible in real time.But even this approach won't last forever. Salvatore Stolfo, a professor of computer science at Columbia University, says the attackers "have the upper hand. They have all the time in the world, and they have great motivation to spend their time and energy to avoid detection."Antivirus has a future, he says, but it may be in name only. "Basic implementation and strategy will change." Like the fraud detection in use by banks and credit card companies, "eventually, systems implanted in machines will learn your own personal behaviour and protect by detecting abnormalities". One has to hope so. Otherwise, the future looks bleak.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Archos at Generation 5Archos has launched Generation 5 of its line of portable media players, which go from a 2GB Flash mini (&pound;59.99) to a 160GB model with a 7-inch (800 x 480) touchscreen and Wi-Fi (&pound;399.99).archos.comOQO UKOQO has opened a UK office and launched a new e2 ultraportable Windows Vista PC with a UK keyboard.oqo.comexpansys.comVirtual ribbon-cuttingCoventry University's vice-chancellor formally opened its island in Second Life at the Serious Virtual Worlds Conference, which was held at the Serious Games Institute in Coventry.viddler.comseriousvirtualworlds.netConnect AfricaThe International Telecommunication Union, the World Bank Group and other organisations plan to launch Connect Africa, an attempt to improve Africa's communications infrastructure.itu.intCarry-on managerSega and Sports Interactive say that Football Manager Handheld 2008 will be available for the PlayStation Portable before Christmas.sigames.comSmiley birthdayThe "emoticon" - commonly a sideways smiley face - was 25 years old yesterday - unless it's much older.wikipedia.orgSpain goes phishingSpain has replaced South Korea as the biggest source of phishing emails, accounting for 17.9% of the worldwide volume, according to the IBM X-Force 2007 Midyear Report.iss.net
Even now, the original Motorola Razr is a common sight, loved by many for its ease of use and slim form factor. Motorola is hoping to replicate its success with this next-generation model. It has managed to shave 2mm off the original and has updated the casing by using toughened glass and reflected metal. The external display is one of the largest around, and can be used as a touchscreen to control features like the MP3 player when the phone is shut. To compliment this, and to aid use, the phone features haptics, which means it gives a little shudder of feedback whenever you hit a button. HSDPA means fast data transfer when online, and it comes preloaded with the Opera browser. There's also a camera, although it's nothing special at 2 megapixels. Another nice consumer gimmick is the talking element. It's customisable by degrees - you can choose for the phone to read out each menu item as you pass over it, read out your text messages or to remain silent. Be warned - the novelty wears off after a couple of hours.motorola.co.uk
If Michael Whelan's dream comes true, the Atlantic ocean will soon help keep the lights on in Ireland. And if it does, it will complete a circuit for Whelan: 30 years ago he was a commercial diver working on North Sea oil and gas installations. Returning to Ireland in the 1980s, he started a marine towing and salvage company. After selling that business, he opened a quayside hotel in Cobh near Cork. But now he has returned to the sea - to generate electricity from wave power.His enthusiasm for the project, a wave energy converter called an Ocean Energy Buoy, knows no limits. While everyone else was celebrating Christmas Day last year, Whelan was mooring his 28-tonne prototype in Galway Bay. Over the next eight months, the quarter-scale model was battered by storms.Whelan felt like a fish out of water when he opened The Waters Edge Hotel on the quayside at Cobh - and the lure of the sea soon grew irresistibly strong. "Building a hotel was great fun but when I started selling food and beds to people, I knew I was in the wrong business," Whelan says. "I had an interest in renewable energy and I needed to get my feet back into the water."Turbine driversHe then met Dr Tony Lewis of the Hydraulics and Maritime Research Centre at University College Cork, who in turn introduced him to oscillating water columns which drove turbines to generate electricity. Inspired by what he saw, Whelan promptly funded further research and formed a technology company - Ocean Energy - in 2002. "We were going forward to try and develop a floating structure to capture wave energy," says Whelan, who later sold his hotel.Over the past five years, Whelan has pioneered wave technology in Ireland with the assistance of the Hydraulics and Maritime Research Centre, the Irish Marine Institute, and Queens University Belfast. He started with a 1:50 scale model, working up to the latest quarter-scale device. He even took a 1:15 scale prototype to France for tank testing.The current quarter-scale buoy - 12 metres long, six metres wide and six metres high - was built using the data obtained from earlier models. In section, the Ocean Energy Buoy is an L-shape lying on its back with a vertical oscillating water column. The wave motion alters the subsurface pressure to drive air in and out. This movement is harnessed by a Wells air turbine - the only moving part - which turns the air flow into a continuous rotary action in one direction.After a 200-mile tow from Cork, the Ocean Energy Buoy was moored in Galway Bay in a spot chosen to match - for scale - the conditions that a full-sized version will face. It looks more like a small barge than a buoy."She's very strongly built. The front end is blunt and the back end is open to the sea. When she lifts and falls, she acts like a jet boat and the mooring forces go flat," Whelan says. "On New Year's Eve, we had one of the worst storms in Galway Bay in over 20 years." After riding out the storm unscathed, the buoy spent the next eight months collecting air flow, pressure, and mooring force data. Although not fitted with a Wells turbine, the trial confirmed that a commercially viable source of electricity was possible.Whelan recently retrieved the buoy from the sea for cleaning and a fresh coat of paint. And now he's installing a small 16-kilowatt power generation system for a further trial. "It's a modified Wells turbine that we will be putting in," says Whelan, who reckons a modest metre of wave motion will generate two or three kilowatts. "If we're satisfied with what she's pumping out, we'll be immediately going to build a full-scale prototype."Weighing 600 tonnes, this will be 40 metres long, 20 metres wide and 16 metres high. Twin 750 kilowatt Wells turbines are planned, with the combined 1.5MW output sufficient to power hundreds of homes. Are there many calm days in a year, though?Total dedication"Along the west coast of Ireland, I think we'll be generating for easily 300 days if not more," Whelan says. Ocean Energy Buoys would be moored in groups in depths of between 30 and 50 metres with the power going ashore via submarine cable. The predicted payback time for a full-scale buoy is seven or eight years.Getting this far has demanded total dedication from Whelan. On the day he spoke to the Guardian, he was cleaning barnacles and mussels off the prototype, typical of his hands-on approach. His vast experience in deep sea diving, tugboats, and marine salvage has proved invaluable. "If you love your job, it doesn't seem like work at all. But at the same time, I'm not doing it for the love, I'm doing it to make it commercial," Whelan says.Supported by grants from the Irish Marine Institute and Sustainable Energy Ireland, the research programme has cost more than &euro;1m (&pound;692,570). Whelan is hoping for a good return on his personal investment.Dr Tony Lewis of the Hydraulics and Maritime Research Centre believes that Ireland is well placed to exploit wave power. "Ireland is on the edge of a large ocean so we're exposed to some of the biggest waves in the world. There is a continuous flow of energy into the coastline which is almost equal to the electricity consumption of the whole country in a year," he says. The Irish government has committed to producing 500MW from wave energy by 2020.The energy expert Professor Ian Fells has also been involved with marine energy systems. As a former chairman of the New and Renewable Energy Centre in Blyth, he appreciates the challenges faced by the Irish developers. "What encourages me is that it's a fairly simple device and it uses proven technology for generating the electricity," Fells says. "It just remains to be seen how it works and what it costs to bring the power ashore."Although the Irish government seems inspired by wave energy, Fells worries that the UK government is neglecting marine renewables - tidal stream, wave energy, and tidal barrage - in favour of wind: "Marine technologies are important but the [UK] government has a blind spot. It seems to have put all its eggs into the wind basket and wind is turning out to be very expensive. Wave power has a very important part to play."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I've had an email address since 1997: first with Freeserve, which became Wanadoo, and then Orange. It stopped working. I called the technical support line, and a charming gentleman in India informed me that the address had been withdrawn. I was told I had been given 30 days' notice of the withdrawal of service, but I don't think I was. Can email providers simply withdraw addresses after nine years?Adrin NeatrourClearly they can, and you are far from being the only person affected. One discussion on theOrangeProblems.co.ukwebsite has 14 pages of complaints and advice. However, the volume of hostile complaints made France Telecom (which owns Orange) reconsider its actions, and some of the users at OrangeProblems.co.uk are now reporting that their accounts have been restored.France Telecom presumably keeps some backups of email in case the police or a government agency wants to read them under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, but there's no guarantee it kept all your old mail. Also, any mail sent while the mailbox was closed will have been bounced back to the sender, so you probably won't get that.Either way, the message is clear: you should assume that you can lose access to all your web-based email at any second, either because you have forgotten your password, been hacked, have a PC or software problem, or because the supplier has deleted it by accident or on purpose.
The world is getting ready for a new kind of wireless network, giving fast data services to laptops, homes and offices - but it won't come without a struggle. Britain has two operators pushing different versions of the technology, and the mobile phone networks are rushing out alternatives to fend it off.I've already used an early version of the technology in question, WiMax. For the first six months of this year, my office had a fast and reliable broadband internet connection that came through a wireless connection beamed from a mast about five miles away in the centre of London to an antenna bolted to my house.WiMax could eventually look a lot like the mobile phone network, with antennas spreading it over the country. But there's a big difference. The mobile phone networks were originally designed for voice calls and started carrying data as an afterthought. WiMax was built for data.That means it can potentially do two things. Like the service I had, from operator Urban Wimax, it can offer fixed broadband to homes and offices. But the latest version of the WiMax standard - (officially, IEEE 802.16e,wimaxforum.org) - can also offer fast data direct to laptops, even when on the move. It's also been demonstrated in prototype phones.Intel, the processor maker, has been the prime mover behind WiMax, knocking industry heads together to establish an open standard through the IEEE. It plans to start building WiMax radios into its Centrino chipset laptops, so next year we could be buying systems that are ready to connect to a mobile version of the WiMax service.Since we can already use Wi-Fi hotspots, and can slip data cards into our laptops to access the 3G network, by then we will have so much choice that these WiMax services had better be something special to get any business. In the US, two operators - Sprint Nextel and Clearwire - reckon there's money in WiMax services. They have pooled their resources to build a WiMax network, under the brand Xohm (pronounced "Zome"). By the end of next year, the network will have cost $2.5bn (&pound;1.25bn) to build, and should cover an area that includes 100 million customers. By 2010, Sprint expects to be getting $2.5bn a year in revenue back from it through offering broadband.Around the world there are plenty of other WiMax networks on the way. The UK has had several, but it looks like the first full-scale commercial WiMax network will be run by a wireless subsidiary of the ISP Pipex. "In a month or so, we will launch a commercial service in Manchester," says Graham Currier, business development director at Pipex Wireless. Other cities will follow over three years, and Pipex's trials at Milton Keynes and Warwick will go commercial.To run a WiMax network, you need exclusive rights to some radio spectrum - which is hard to come by - and the money to build the network. Pipex has a band at 3.6GHz, which it acquired when it bought another ISP, and has had $25m investment from Intel to build the network.The biggest WiMax competitor could be Urban Wimax, which has been running commercial WiMax services in London for two years now, offering symmetrical broadband services (up to 10 Mbps upload and download speed), using "light-licensed" (ie shared) spectrum at 5.8GHz. "[Pipex] plans to start volume commercial roll out later this year, whereas Urban Wimax already is in volume roll-out and the service capabilities are broadly the same in end user terms," says Urban's chief executive, Sasha Williamson.Both Pipex and Urban are offering fixed access using older WiMax standards, but Williamson hopes to move into mobile WiMax services - getting a consortium together to bid for spectrum, when the UK's radio regulator, Ofcom, will sell licences for a large block around 2.5 GHz."For fixed access Pipex certainly has a head start," says Amrit Heer, head of wireless market development at network equipment maker Nortel, which is demonstrating WiMax systems with Urban. He believes it will find the 3.5GHz spectrum limiting; 2.5GHz spectrum travels further, and penetrates better through buildings.Ofcom's auction will be the UK's biggest since the mobile operators paid &pound;22.5 billion for 3G licences in 1998. There is some fear that mobile operators could bid the price up, or buy spectrum to keep the WiMax players at bay, but Williamson is sanguine. "Ofcom has proposed a [bandwidth] cap on bidders which is currently set at 90Mhz," he says. Blocking WiMax would only be a short-term option, since more spectrum will appear in 2012, released by the digital switchover.Instead, mobile networks are migrating towards their own faster data services, with the arrival of extensions to the 3G standard called HSDPA, and beyond that there is a data-oriented nirvana called LTE (long term evolution). Vodafone and 3 have been cutting their prices, and 3 is already selling these "turbo" HSDPA services as a broadband replacement, promising 2.8Mbps downloads through a laptop modem, at prices starting at &pound;10 per month.The WiMax operators are scathing. "3G just isn't a good enough data network," says Currier. "Even HSPA is still a data overlay on a voice network." It may give fast speeds to a few people, he says, but it won't have the capacity to support masses of users.Nortel's Heer thinks operators may need to choose carefully. "Upgrading HSPA and waiting for LTE will be a sensible choice for some incumbent operators in some markets," he says. "For new entrants, who wish to select the most appropriate technology for data networking, WiMax is a likely choice. LTE will be commercially available in 2012, which offers WiMax a window of opportunity to establish itself as a mainstream technology."Operators are, in fact, hedging their bets: for instance, Vodafone's Maltese subsidiary is using WiMax to deliver broadband, and the company has joined the WiMax Forum industry body. "We're technology neutral as regards access technology," says Mark Street of Vodafone. "It's not just insurance - we're looking to contribute."The happiest player in all this might be the rooftop renter, Macropolitan. All these rival networks mean more masts - and that means more rent money.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Cross Palm with silverCan Palm compete and survive for another 18 months before being able to release its new platform (Can Palm find a way to survive, September 13)? That's got to be approaching two generations of iPhones, BlackBerrys etc.pocketpicks.co.ukThe delays in the next generation of the Palm OS mean that its fans will have another year of models running an operating system that debuted in 2002.latest-mobile.comA powerful argumentThe simple answer to Michael Cross's complaint is to label all your chargers, plugs and cables using self-adhesive labels (Technobile, September 13).Patrick Ford,Carshalton&middot;I'm trying to get people to assess how many of these power supplies they really need to have plugged in all the time. Then to buy a new power strip with switches for the ones they can turn off, as no one unplugs them.Gavin Bell,London&middot;I completely agree with Michael Cross. Let's get the manufacturers to agree a common voltage standard and a common connector type. My Motorola mobile uses a mini-USB socket, which seems a good candidate.But if manufacturers were to adopt a common standard, not just for mobile kit but for every gadget that converts AC to DC, we could go further. Every new house could be built with DC cabling alongside the AC cables. A single, highly efficient, AC to DC transformer would supply power to your hi-fi, cable box, laptop, mobile phone, PC/Mac, halogen desk lamp, radio, DVD player - in fact, to almost every piece of kit . The result should save power, as the central transformer would be more efficient.Dave Berry,EdinburghWe've been here beforeWebsites that dump applications on desktops (Adobe airs a new way of using the web offline, September 13)? Er, hasn't this sort of thing been around for some time? Otherwise known as computer viruses? Am I being Luddite in being dismayed by yet another means of delivering unwanted crud on my computer?Robert Ward,Leeds&middot;One needs to wait and see whether this one finds more acceptability than similar efforts with Java applets.eit.in/b/awe/Paying for free dataRobert Ward (Letters, September 13) makes sound sense, but your Free Our Data philosophy is more deeply flawed than he indicates. Even if taxpayers have already paid for official data to be collected and analysed, making it available on demand free of charge is definitely not a zero-cost option. Have you asked us taxpayers if we're happy to bear the extra tax cost, or even tried to establish what that might be? Second, spreading such costs among all taxpayers is fair only if everyone makes roughly the same use of the service. I have no need for Ordnance Survey stuff. Why should I pay the costs of inquiries others make, particularly if they are making a profit on the deal? "Free" data? What time is the next flying pig?Robert Sproat,LondonCrime doesn't payCalls for a central e-crime reporting mechanism (Why small online fraudsters get away with it, September 6) are understandable but misplaced: we don't have a central unit for reporting mail-order based crime or malicious phone calls. Instead, each police officer is trained in how to deal with these commonplace crimes. Internet fraud is much the same. The problems partly stem from police and businesses not knowing the workings of the internet and preferring someone else to take on their problems. These problems are exacerbated by the difficulty of obtaining evidence due to bureaucracy and poor assistance from internet companies.Name and address withheld
Firefox, the browser that dared to challenge the supremacy of Microsoft's Internet Explorer, has just reached 400m downloads - and deservedly so. It now claims a market share of nearly 20% in the UK and 30% in Germany. Firefox, part of the admirable Mozilla Foundation, is based on open source, created and improved on by volunteers all over the world. The cooperative spirit that infused the open source movement is now taking over the world as people and corporations collaborate on music, videos, products or the Wikipedia. All of which makes it scandalous that the open source movement has not taken off in the UK as it has in other countries.You would have thought that a Labour government, struggling to marry the success of market forces with the socialist endowment of its founding fathers, would have latched on to this new cooperativism which brings people together for a common purpose with a burning zeal. In fact, its wanton neglect could damage our economic prospects.The depth of its neglect was made plain by speakers at a seminar last week hosted by Westminster eForum, which tries to make parliament aware of IT issues. It turns out, in contrast to what other governments are doing, that most departments - including Health, Work and the Foreign Office - are so risk-averse they have virtually no open source in their IT infrastructures. The Treasury runs less than 1% of its operations with open source. The Conservatives, who rightly believe Labour is vulnerable in this area, claim that nearly &pound;700m could be saved by switching to open source. This is disputed by others who point to the high initial cost of switching from an embedded system and retraining everyone. But in the long run, low maintenance costs plus the absence of licence fees and upgrade charges must give open source the edge and, even if it didn't, there is still a strong case for encouraging it because a workforce skilled in open source would be well placed to exploit the enormous opportunities opening up for the future.Schools are not much better, a double tragedy because they not only don't benefit from savings but also lose the opportunity to train children in the skills of the future. Equally serious is the indifference of small companies. This, we were told, was down to a suspicion that anything that is free can't be any good.This is not a view shared by Google or Amazon - both huge users of open source. It was strongly disputed by a representative from Malmaison, the very cool hotel group which has put most of its operations on to open source for one simple reason: "high performance and low cost". Alfresco, a British software company which has been successful in the US and has a 100,000 user project with the European Commission, reported that barely 5% of its business is in the UK.The flagship of open source is the Linux operating system, a potential rival to Windows. It operates successfully in lots of places, including a Nokia N800 mobile device I have been testing, where it works apparently faultlessly in the background. But, despite improvements, including Ubuntu, its latest highly regarded incarnation, Linux still gives the impression of being made by engineers for engineers and hasn't made the critical jump to consumer friendliness. This can be seen in comments on websites to help you install Ubuntu such as: "It's normal that WinXP doesn't see your Linux partition. Disk management in XP admin tools will." Easily understood by a geek but a turnoff for someone who wants an easy consumer experience.Which is exactly what Mozilla has managed to do with Firefox, which is easy to download and modify. They have even taken away some functions to reduce the "button count". Maybe Mozilla's marketing skills should be harnessed by Linux to turn a wonderful product into something people actually want to use.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I can get 99 radio stations on my television. I can get hundreds more on the internet. I can watch again, listen again and download podcasts. And, should I desire, I can get television and radio on my iPod or mobile phone. But there is one thing all this technology can't do for me that I really, really want it to. Why can't I listen to television programmes on the radio?Many TV programmes would transfer to the radio almost seamlessly. Sure, I enjoy looking at Jeremy Paxman as much as most women with good taste. But I already know what he looks like. It's what he's saying that matters most to me and sometimes - sorry Jeremy - I'm just too tired to stay up. And yes, yes, I know I can watch again via the website, but the watch and listen again facility is surely a bit like having a pile of videotapes you always mean to watch but somehow ... never do. But if you put Jeremy, Gavin or Kirsty on the radio, then I would always catch them.Programmes like This Week and Question Time would also transfer extremely well. As, of course, would the main news bulletins, though I can see how the BBC probably wouldn't want its flagship evening television news programme to clash with, say, Radio 4's The World Tonight. But during last year's coverage of the football World Cup, many viewers turned off the TV commentary and chose the 5 Live feed instead. With Radio 2 regularly pulling in 13 million listeners, radio is already beating television hands down.It would suit me, because I love lying in bed listening to the radio. Radio is soothing; it doesn't hurt my eyes or assault my senses and it forces you to concentrate in a way that television never quite manages. But if it's a pleasant dream for me to listen to the telly on the radio, imagine how wonderful it would be for those who are visually impaired. And you could also listen in your car instead of rushing to get back in time for a programme.Sure, it won't be as good as the real thing, but least you'll get the gist of the programme. I cannot believe I'm the only one who wants this. I fear, however, that this seemingly obvious extension to television will never happen. Television must be seen to innovate, and so seems to need ever more whizzbangs and special effects. But - funny, this - the more visually stunning television gets, the more of us switch off and turn to the radio or internet instead.Television is far more threatened by new technology than radio because you can listen to radio while you're doing something else. It is a friend that whispers gently in your ear. My plan would make television more user-friendly, not less. It must be possible. How hard can it be? So the real question is, why hasn't it been done?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The internet, imagined in 1969Apart from the sexual politics, it's almost as if they were looking over our shoulders. With valve-powered spectacles. And why is it that mum and dad use the internet, but the kids don't?Send links totech@guardian.co.ukThat's imagining imaging>Blaise Aguera y Arcas of Microsoft's research laboratories demonstrates Photosynth to browse through gigabytes of data using just a laptop at top speed. And he even shows the Guardian.A new form of prosthetic arm?Inventor Dean Kamen is working on a new prosthetic arm for the 1,600 people who lost an arm in the Iraq war.
I attended the Mobile Entertainment Awards last night where, as you can see from my blurry mobile phone photograph, Nokia was presented with its award for best handset company by a man in the least appropriate Sonic the Hedgehog costume I have ever seen - and I've seen a lot of inappropriate Sonic costumes in my time as a fervent Sega watcher. Weirdly skintight and ill-shaped it was like Sonic re-imagined by some kind of sado-masochistic avant garde theatre performer.Anyway, the only awards really relevant to me (and by presumptuous extension, you) were Best Developer which deservedly went toDigital Chocolate, responsible for fab games like Tornado Mania, Tower Bloxx and Rollercoaster Rush, and Best Publisher, scooped byEA, which has been dipping its toe into mobile for years, but has now dived in headfirst, bringing almost all of its major console brands to the small screen, including Skate.There was no award for Best Game - I'm not sure why.EA was not the only veteran videogames publisher at the event. Konami was there - the company is ramping up its presence in the European mobile market via a distribution deal signed with Glu a couple of months ago. It has also set-up a new development studio in Paris, dedicated to mobile projects. Last week the company released a point-and-click version of Silent Hill and is preparing mobile versions of PES 2008 and the GBA title, Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow.I was a guest of Glu at the event and spoke to Konami's head of mobile, Florian Stronk who was trying to explain the one-thumb control system employed in the company's PES translation. Apparently you can pass, shoot, chip and fake, all with one button - although a more conventional control system is offered too.Eidos, Codemasters and Vivendi were also present and are all bringing their big titles to European mobiles, making the format a bona fide element of the multi-platform release schedule. Whether this is going to push original titles even further down the priority list for publishers and network operators remains to be seen. It would be a shame, as console conversions often fall far short of their big brothers, whereas original games from the likes of Digital Chocolate and Gameloft are really exploring what mobile phones can offer as a unique technology.The big videogame console publishers are welcome of course, but let's hope they bring some sense of experimentation and sympathy for the format with them.
Thousands of shops are planning to open at midnight for the launch of Halo 3 on the Xbox 360, and Microsoft has a big event planned for the IMAX cinema on the South Bank in London. So a lot of people are going to be extremely angry with Argos, the UK retailer, if it is really selling copies a week before the official release.But according toGamesIndustry.biz, that's what's happening: "The news comes from the forums of Eurogamer.net, where users have been posting pictures of boxed copies of the game, along with receipts."In theXbox 360 Forum, userblogsrussays:As luck would have it, if you go to the Argos website and do a reserve for store pick up on Halo 3, take the number and make your way down to your local store, you can get your hands on Halo 3 early. I know, because it's sitting here on my desk. Don't try to pay at the machine though, as it will come up as not for sale. Instead, take your number to an ordinary till and if providence smiles upon you, you will walk away with a nice shiny copy of Halo 3 a week early.Will Argos plead incompetence rather than malignancy?Update: In afollow-up story, GamesIndustry.biz quotes Neil Thompson, senior regional director for the UK and Ireland in Microsoft's Entertainment and Devices division, saying "it was just an honest mistake [and] Argos reacted incredibly quickly" to fix it.
Oddly, just ahead of its bigSearchificationevent on September 26, Microsoft has refreshed itsLive Searchpage and made it look even more like Google -- the old Google, that is, before it changed the tabs over the search box to links in the top left.Windows Live Search still has some clever stuff that Google lacks, but it's more or less buried: you get to it by clicking the Options drop-down menu on the right, or by running a search and clicking Advanced. I suspect not many people will do that.You can still roll your own search engine by going to More and selecting Edit Macros. Again, I suspect not many people will do that.One of the nice options (under Options) isWindows Live Translator, which probably will get used.....But the real problem is that Windows Live Search still isn't competitive with Google, and probably not as good as Yahoo Search, which often gets better results than Google. This is a problem for Microsoft because it is building a relatively coherent set of online applications under the Live banner (see last week's Netbytes column,Live and kicking), and take-up basically revolves around the Windows Live versions of Hotmail and Messenger. That contrasts with Google, where the online apps are somewhat less coherent (partly because so many were bought in), but adoption is driven by the Search page.It's OK to suck in traffic from Hotmail and Messenger by making it easy to search from those, but it's like preaching to the choir. Microsoft really needs Live Search to work well, to suck in new users, the way Google's search does.Will Windows Live Search 2.0 be the answer? Presumably we'll find out on September 26, when Microsoft is expected to unveil the new look-and-feel, new features and new search results. History says it will be better but nowhere near good enough, but I could be wrong....
