Last week, we visited the offices of EA Criterion in downtown Guilford fora hands-on session with Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit. While we were there, we grabbed a few minutes with senior producer Matt Webster to talk about the game's advanced approach to social connectivity. Turns out, you'll never really be playing Need For Speed alone ever again...Was it difficult to merge the sensibilities of Criterion with the Need For Speed franchise?I think whatever game Criterion makes is going to sit with a number of principles. Fun, accessibility, simplicity – whether that's game modes or mechanics. And it's got to be highly connected. Irrespective of whatever game we make, it's going to be built on those principles. In a driving game that's going to mean speed, action, and the ability to pick the pad up and have fun very quickly. So this is Criterion's take on Need For Speed, that's what we were always talking about, and we discuss these things in the office quite a lot, 'if we were making this game, we'd do this or that', we're always talking about our take on different kinds of games.When it came to this one, we thought 'what does Need For Speed mean for us oldies?' It's the very first one, it's exotic cars, it's cops… We would have been insane not to use those elements. And it's about the ease of driving the cars, the sense of speed and those action moments, trying to wrap them around a simple but engaging set of game constructs. And we always knew we wanted to go hard on the connected aspect; Autolog came out of watching how people played Burnout Paradise, and looking at where we thought connected gaming was going.Getting a bunch of machines connected is relatively trivial these days, but lots of people don't play that way. I mean, seasoned gamers may have six to ten friends on their platform friends lists, but in actuality, the mass market gamer doesn't have that many – if they have any at all. We wanted to ramp up the sense of social competition, and have a system that does it for you.And the social system extends into the single-player mode doesn't it?Yes, that's the whole point. The whole point. What we're most excited about is the solo connectivity, so as I'm browsing through things to play, I've always got information about what my friends have done on that event to encourage me to get involved. And when Ihaveplayed the event, I'll get auto alerts on when my time has been beaten. And I think the 'Autolog Recommends' feature is going to change the way people play racing games – it's the ultimate distraction. It's like any social network, there's a relatively small chance of you being connected to Twitter or Facebook at the same time as a friend, but the constructs are there for you to be able to engage with each other as if youwerethere at the same time.So you've taken your cues very much from social network design and from social discovery systems like Apple's Ping?Yes. But it also comes from those very natural discussions you have when you're playing games: 'what was your score?', ''what was your best time?'. You know, the game should do this for you! It knows everything, it's attached to a server, it knows who my friends are – with some decent tech and a good creative, we can start pressing some of those buttons for people.This has all been born out of Burnout Paradise where we had an asynchronous feature named Road Wars. And what we saw was that players would hit it quite late, because actually we did a good job of burying it. But when they did use it, it really hooked them. So we thought, how can we engineer this system to remember it and ping it, so everything I do is a potential recommendation for my friends? And if a bunch of friends are playing a particular event, it's going to tell me about that as well.So you're shifting the focus, really, from pure multiplayer, to connected single player...Getting online together is straightforward but a relatively rare occurrence, so we end up playing with strangers. And playing online… it's not a pleasant place. I mean, I'm a seasoned FPS player and it is not pleasant. If someone is new to video gaming, and they go online for the first time, that's going to be really offputting. Now people can play with friends at their own pace and in comfort – the spotlight of performance isn't on you, but you get the pay off, which is beating a friend.And the game lets you extend your network too doesn't it? It lets you see messages your friends have sent totheirfriends. That's very much a social networking feature…Yes, definitely. These machines have social networks on them, it's just that no one's quite realised it. We've all got platform friends, we all have machines with network cables, but you can't see it, and there's no persistence, the context is always changing. But what we're doing with Need For Speed is persistent, and we're doing pushes to you that are personalised. If I beat your time and go top of a speedwall, it'll contextualise that information for you; you know,  'Matt goes top, you're now fifth and 32 seconds behind'. That's where the cool shit that goes on inside our comparison engine comes in, it makes it very rich, very personal and dynamic. It's doing many tens of thousands of comparisons and then punting that information out. It's the richness of the information that's important. If you look on a standard leaderboard, you don't know when I went top, you don't know the gap between your performances, you have to work that out for yourself. This system joins the dots. It's more powerful. It's real-time.It also tracks the number of attempts a friend as made on your record. So if you're top of a speedwall, and someone who's second has made 32 attempts on your time, you know they're going really hard after you. It'll also tell you which cars your friends selected on every event. You're getting an insight into how your friends play. It's fun little bits of data that we can store and track. And it engenders the spirit of replayability.But another thing you're saying is that, despite this sense of inclusion, and the ease with which we can get to grips with these cars, this is all based on accurate data. Is that right?I have one example I always use. When we got all the data from McLaren for the SLR 722 we saw that the car's meant to do 209 mph. But in the game it wouldn't, it would only do 204 mph. We checked the numbers, because there's a deep physical simulation going on there; there are 20 values just for the rear wheels another 20 for the front, then there are dimensions and torque curves, all that stuff – which we do a really good job of covering up, because the game is all about having fun. But the McLaren was still only doing 204, so we started looking for physics bugs… then we realised that the rear tyres were 2mm too small. We increased the size, ran the simulation and off it went: 209 mph…Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit is set for release on PC, PS3, Wii and Xbox 360 on 19 November.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Planet Express meets the Fail Whale. Photo byDavid Julyon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNYT blames yet another culprit: Nokia's Culture of Complacency &gt;&gt; asymco"The challenge Nokia faces is not complacency. It's that the business model for selling voice-oriented phones is diametrically opposed to the business model for selling data-oriented phones. In one case you cooperate with and sustain operators, in the other you compete with and disrupt them.  It looks damn near impossible to do both with the same organization. Everything must be done differently. The real problem is that Nokia has not realized this and therefore can't build its own replacement."What a difference ten years makes &gt;&gt; Brett JordanAnd one can make proper phone calls too.Morgan Stanley analyst predicts Microsoft will triple smartphone market share in 2 years &gt;&gt; Winpoweruser.com""You could buy your way in, if you are Microsoft," he said. "This is a market where a deep balance sheet will help Microsoft determine where they want to go." He notes a good marketing campaign can do wonders for adoption, with Ehud predicting Microsoft will hit 15% market share in 2012 (about the same as the iPhone's share now)"With [Microsoft's] resources, I think they can sustain double-digit market share," he said."You'd have to think they'd be pretty useless not to achieve that, given their spending power. And Windows Phone 7 doesn't look bad, either.RIM introduces PlayBook -- the BlackBerry tablet &gt;&gt; EngadgetTo ship in early 2011. A 7" tablet. That size is already beginning to feel like a crowded space.UK transport mapped: Every bus stop, train station, ferry port and taxi rank in Britain &gt;&gt; Guardian Data blogWe linked to the source material a while back, but now here's the map. Next, the crowdsourcing version?The Symbian open source experiment has failed &gt;&gt; Gartner"The brave Symbian open source experiment has failed. The only two top-tier device manufacturers on the Symbian board other than Nokia have deserted it. ZDNet reports Sony Ericsson are abandoning Symbian for Android, and Samsung headed down the Android and Bada road a while back."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Nine months since the launch of the Apple iPad, 25 days following Samsung's Galaxy Tab, BlackBerry-manufacturer Research In Motion (RIM) has revealed details of its tablet computer, dubbedPlaybook.The announcement of RIM's eagerly-anticipated assault on the tablet computer market was as elegant as its enterprise-led handsets. It will not rush the Playbook out in time for the festive season and those likely to get the most from their new tablet device will be those that already own a BlackBerry, it seems.Without further ado, the specifications:• 7in touchscreen (same as Samsung Galaxy Tab, 2.7in smaller than Apple iPad)• BlackBerry Tablet OS built on architecture by recently-acquired QNX• 1 GHz dual-core processor• 1 GB RAM• HD video playback• HDMI video outputJuly 7 2008:• Bluetooth 2.1• MicroHDMI and microUSB ports• Support for Adobe Flash Player 10.1• Dimensions: 5.1″x7.6″x0.4″• Weight: 400g (Apple iPad: 680-730g; Samsung Galaxy Tab: 380g)• Able to connect to BlackBerry Enterprise Servers• Pairing with BlackBerry handsets• Ability to connect to 3G network on existing BlackBerry data planRemarkably similar tothe details leaked in previous weeks, don't you think? (Minus the moniker, of course. Which leaves the more interesting question: what happens to the BlackPad and SurfBook domain registrations?)Playbook will be shipped to developers and enterprise customers from October, and will go on general sale early next year. No price was announced for the device, but it is thought that it will sit towards the more-affordable end of the scale to Apple's iPad.Opening RIM's annual BlackBerry Developer's Conference in San Francisco, company president Mike Lazaridis said the curiously-titled Playbook "is the world's first professional tablet", adding:"RIM set out to engineer the best professional-grade tablet in the industry with cutting-edge hardware features and one of the world's most robust and flexible operating systems."The BlackBerry PlayBook solidly hits the mark with industry leading power, true multitasking, uncompromised web browsing and high performance multimedia."• Separately, RIM also launched a free analytics service that provides application developers with data on how, when and where customers are using their apps. Alan Brenner, senior vice president of the BlackBerry platform, said: "We are enabling developers to better monetise their services and drive deeper engagement to create richer, more interesting social apps for BlackBerry."
The internet should remain "open and healthy" for the sake of emerging businesses and information distribution, Jon McNerney, chief operating officer at the Internet Society, told the Guardian today.McNerney's warning about the importance net neutrality follows the "internet treaty" proposal presented at the Internet Governance Forum earlier this month which, if enacted, would enshrine the principle that all internet traffic is treated equally into law."The big issue, we think, is keeping the internet open and healthy," McNerney said. "Net neutrality is one of the pieces of the issue, but there are multiple regulatory factors and impacts."The internet created entrepreneurs, innovators. It has distributed information and knowledge throughout the world and you want to be sure that the principles it was founded upon are upheld. It sounds quite high level but it's important so that the Steve Jobs and Jeff Bezos and Mark Zuckerberg can have the environment to continue to build better efficiencies. That impacts how you regulate the internet and impacts policies," he said.The Internet Society hosts itsLondon conferenceon Wednesday, where net neutrality will be one of the biggest topics for discussion. Trust and privacy, McNerney said, were also among the biggest issues facing the future of the internet. He said:"From a purely commercial standpoint, it's in the organisation's – whether they're large or small – best interests to continuously provide secure and trusted networks and access. If the people paying the bills begin to believe that their privacy or identity is compromised then that is the quickest way to reduce revenue for a company."Speaking about the "increasingly important and dynamic impact" that the internet will have outside of the US and UK, McNerney said he believes that the increasing adopting of the internet will not leave some demographics behind. Asked whether there was a danger that over 65s could get left standing in the race online, McNerney said: "I don't believe that."The internet – regardless of socieconomic status – brings so many advantages – cost benefits, efficiencies to an individual – that value is there to be attained by whatever age group you are. Folks that lived in the non-internet world are slowly but surely adopting technology because it makes their life easier. Maybe the uptake isn't like what it is for 15-year-olds but they do recognise the efficiencies and cost benefits."When you think of Europe and compare the penetration rates with Africa you can see that it's not as daunting as it is in other places in the world. The UK will get the access to where it needs to be, and more mobile apps will make it easaier for people to utlise the net."
Over the years, the rivalry between the two leading football games, EA Sports' Fifa and Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer, has become every bit as intense as that between any pairing of local teams in the real-life Football League – that is, positively tribal in nature. Last year's Fifa 10 saw EA Sports' franchise, after years in the doldrums, roar back to form, although it wasn't perfect. And this year, Pro Evolution Soccer will have to do something truly special to regain its crown: the new Fifa is the best in living memory.As ever with a yearly update, there are a few odd structural alterations, new features and tweaks, but the most important improvement to Fifa 11 could not be more fundamental: its underlying passing engine has been rewritten, providing much more accuracy and eliminating the "ping-pong passing" which, unrealistically, would let you play one-touch sequences that would make Cesc Fabregas green with envy. This, of course, will expose your talent and passing vision (or lack of it); PES fans would argue, with some justification, that this brings Fifa to where their beloved game has been for some time. But it's a welcome improvement, especially given that AI-controlled player movement has been vastly improved, too.Central defenders no longer rush kamikaze-style towards the centre circle when faced with a breaking attacker, and full-backs are now much more likely to overlap. You can grapple realistically (always running the risk of conceding a free kick), fancy back-heels and the like are far less likely to come off, and you can now, for example, chest the ball down in your chosen direction. Midfielders are much keener to burst into the box when crosses come in. Ricochets and deflections, too, seem much more life-like. Plus, you can no longer bamboozle advancing goalkeepers as a matter of course by the simple device of employing a chip-shot.EA Sports also prioritised the task of making AI-controlled players take on the attributes of their real-life counterparts. Its success in this is less obvious although, playing as Tottenham, it was noticeable that Aaron Lennon could outrun pretty much any left back, and Roman Pavlyuchenko constantly strayed offside, which is accurate enough.The main aspect of Fifa 10 which was completely broken, Manager Mode, also appears to have been fixed, in that it has been devolved as an entity and subsumed into Career Mode, along with Be A Pro – you can now opt to control either your chosen player or the whole team at the start of each match, and fiddle around with transfers between matches. Career Mode operates over a meaty 15 seasons, and for the first time, you can play through it as a goalkeeper. You can play through pretty much any cup in Europe, or design your own competition.Which may sound gimmicky, but it means that Fifa 11 is the first football game that lets 11 people play against 11 others online. Fifa 11's multiplayer side is impeccable, with something to suit everyone – you can dive into a quick head-to-head, play as part of a team, set up a league with your friends or hit the lobbies for some random opposition. Whenever you play online in a tournament deemed worthy of a ranking, you'll also be earning bragging rights for your country – Fifa keeps tabs on the quality of online players in ranking tournaments around the world.The game's level of customisation is enormous – you can strip your own face onto a player and customise him to your heart's content by designing your own strip and so on (although having custom players in a team will rule it out of ranking competitions) . Audio files, such as chants, can be imported and assigned to specific in-game occurrences.It goes without saying that Fifa 11 looks absolutely lush, and all the little details which go towards providing the football-watching appearance to which we have become accustomed are more pronounced than ever (and the game contains a heavy link-up with Sky Sports, including a click-through to its website). Whether or not you choose Fifa 11 over Pro Evolution Soccer is more likely to be a matter of taste and tribal loyalty, but Fifa fans will be even more delighted with this year's offering than they were with Fifa 10.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
UK top 10 games chart, week ending 25 September 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)F1 2010(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (48)PC (2)12 (1)Halo: Reach(16+)Xbox 360 (100)23 (–)Dead Rising 2(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (36)14 (–)Civilization V(PG)PC (100)15 (2)Sports Champions (12+)PS3 (100)26 (–)Guitar Hero: Warriors Of Rock(12+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (28)17 (5)Prince Of Persia: The Forgotten Sands(16+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (34)Wii (4)198 (3)Mafia II(18+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (48)PC (5)59 (4)Toy Story 3(3+)DS (47)Wii (20)Xbox 360 (15)PS3 (14)1110 (–)Final Fantasy XIV (12+)PC (100)1Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2010ELSPA(UK) Ltd
Annual updates rarely spring surprises and Guitar Hero hasn't exactly rocked the boat recently, so what's new in the latest version?At first glance, not a lot – in fact, with the loss of those memorable (and controversial, if you count Kurt Cobain) names from GH5, you might be less than impressed with the inclusion of only eight faux axemen like Lars Umlaut, drawn from previous releases. Crowds and guitarists have been given a subtle makeover, but in terms of gameplay not much has changed other than being able to accumulate more stars per song if you perform flawlessly. Narration from Gene Simmons is a nice touch – what a pity he's not a playable character, because genuine star flamboyance is sorely needed.The most significant difference is a new story-based Quest mode that allows your chosen axeman to face special challenges and activate their new special powers and transform into a "warrior of rock" – together with the kind of OTT visual makeover that fans of heavy metal (or "very camp" depending on your outlook) should enjoy. It's a nice idea, but I'm not sure the Street Fighter route of ever more complex combos is really the way to go.For me, a music game should stand or fall on its musicality and this is where Guitar Hero has been losing ground to its nearest rival for a while now. Yes, there are 90 tracks, and Bohemian Rhapsody is a welcome addition to any roster. However, the rest are verging on guitar geekdom – including a massive seven-track finale from Canadian cult-rockers Rush – albeit set in an impressive new stadium. There's a great live version of Paranoid featuring both Ozzy and Metallica, but the basic track has been used before – suggesting that without innovation in other departments, the series is simply running out of guitar styles to ape.Of course, none of this would matter if Guitar Hero still had the floor all to itself – after all, it created the genre almost single handed. But basking on three-year-old glories is not a great idea with EA's Rock Band taking things in a new, more promising direction. With more instruments, playing styles and variety, plus a tracklist at least as strong (including Bohemian Rhapsody) fans might decide to wait for the imminent Rock Band 3 before choosing which musical direction to take next. However, WoR's new axe-controller does work a treat, if you fancy forking out the extra £35.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
The problem with zombies has always been that they are not intrinsically threatening. Vampires, werewolves, slavering multi-toothed aliens, drug-crazed Arkham Asylum inmates, heavily armed Nazi henchmen, that weird pink monster from the original Doom whose echoing roar still haunts my nightmares – all of these are scary because they pose a direct and imminent threat. Not so your classic zombie; a naturally amiable creature, it spends its un-life shuffling aimlessly around like a stoned teenager looking for something to eat.Attempts by film and game producers to turn these shambolic land-plankton into something to shoot a thrill of fear into the hearts of men fall into two broad categories. The 28 Days Later solution is to cheat, giving them the ability to run at great speed, or hunt with intelligence. This succeeds in making them scary, but in doing so arguably compromises their essential zombie-ness. The horde solution, favoured by purists, is simply to whack up the zombie numbers until the casting department runs out of make-up or the console's processors bleed. It doesn't matter if they're slow, the purist says. If there are thousands and thousands of them, and they're everywhere, they'll get you in the end. It is the creeping inevitability that brings the scary.Into this latter camp has Dead Rising 2 been unceremoniously dumped, like an unfortunate cat into a wheelie bin full of zombie mice.It starts quite promisingly. Set in a post-zombie apocalypse world, you are a contestant on a zombie-killing TV show, Terror is Reality, with a saccharin-cute daughter to support. There are vaccines against zombie bites, and cities have zombie attack shelters. You play a round of your show, a faintly simplistic mini-game which serves to put you in character, and then you wander backstage. There is a fresh menace to the storyline, at least at first, a slightly Grand Theft Auto feel – scantily clad dancing girls verbally abuse you almost from the start –and plenty of neat immersive touches.Unfortunately, when the zombie attack begins, gameplay cracks appear. The zombies – and there are, as promised, an awful lot of them; more than 7,000 can be modelled at once – are just not sophisticated enough. Concentrating on the quantity of zombies has predictably meant trading away the quality of their action, so swinging a weapon through a large crowd of them produces an unsatisfying mass of copy/paste deaths.Most objects you see can be picked up and used as weapons, but each basic weapon has only two attacks – a single swing, and a throw. Later on, more complex weapons can be constructed, but even they lack visceral thrills. The zombies attack by latching onto your neck, which forces you into a complex and irksome series of quick-time events to shake it off. As usual, this sucks all remaining continuity out of combat. As if that wasn't enough, the game stubbornly refuses to auto-save at the beginning of new levels, so you have to find a toilet to save. Searching for a loo is therefore always the first thing you do in a new environment; you're playing as a zombie hunter with an irritating bladder infection.As combat and the constant need to urinate grows tedious, you end up navigating through crowds of slow-moving zombies just by bobbing and weaving, giving up on fighting them at all. Gameplay mostly consists of fetch-and-retrieve missions, most of which you spend juggling items in the pitifully small inventory; and the friendly AI, when you have rescued someone, is laughably bad. Two player co-operative mode is fun, but still suffers all the same problems as the single-player.Hamstrung by clumsy mechanics, this game was unfortunately destined to disappoint; which is a pity when the conceptual framework was so promising.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Microsoft is to launch its Windows Phone 7 series on 11 October, the Guardian understands. Emails inviting the press to a central London location that afternoon have just gone out - meaning that the phone series is ready to roll.Following the release to manufacture of the phone's software on 1 September, the company has lined up a number of handset manufacturers, including Asus, HTC, LG, Samsung, Sony Ericsson, Toshiba and Dell, each working to a minimum specification where the phone must have a camera, GPS, compass, proximity sensor (to turn touch-sensing off when you're holding it to your head), a capacitative touch screen and an accelerometer. Physical keyboards will be optional.In the UK, it will be available through the four major networks - Vodafone, T-Mobile (which also owns Orange now), andO2 (owned by Telefonica. By my calculation that means that only 3 isn't joining in initially.Since pretty much everyone won't have experienced the interface, below is my own evaluation of the experience - as demonstrated to me by one of the Windows Phone team in the UK. I didn't actually get to lay hands on the phone, which was an LG prototype, but you can see this video fromPocketnowwhich shows it running side-by-side with an iPhone. The testing is done on a prototype phone - that's not a finished product, though it is the release-to-manufacture version of Windows Phone 7 running.Windows Phone 7: what's it like?If I were to use one word to describe Windows Phone 7's interface, it would be:calm.I saw the release-to-manufacture version of WP7 in a one-on-one demonstration at Microsoft's offices in London: the phone used was not one of those on which WP7 will actually be sold, but had the equivalent hardware - Microsoft is setting minimum standards for processor speed and memory. And it will also insist on those three buttons - back, home, search - being in place on the front. That in itself is admirable: there's been a terrible tendency among phone designers to add more buttons to perform software functions rather than design the software well. Though there's another possibility - that mobile operators have told them to add the buttons so they can boost their own services. (Yes, Orange and Vodafone, I'm looking at you with your buttons which link to walled garden services but whose function can't be reassigned or deleted.)Microsoft will also be "taking more ownership of the end-user experience than previously", I was told by the UK head of consumer marketing for WP7, Oded Ran. He can't promise that there will be no carrier input into what you get: "we do see the need of the mobile operators and [handset] manufacturers to differentiate," he said. (This is what is riling people about Android, but Microsoft may avoid the same problem.)The first thing to note is the typeface, which doesn't pack many words onto a screen - but doesn't try to; instead it seems to be chosen to give a feeling of space and, that word again, calm.In WP7, the emphasis is almost entirely on the home screen, which has a set of tiles showing information from applications such as mail, calendar, or music: you have this many unread Google Mail emails, this appointment today, here's a link to an album or podcast you like. You can add tiles pretty much endlessly; where with the iPhone (for example) you can add apps to create screen after screen, with WP7 you can add links to elements of apps which will create a long, long scroll of tiles.You can also get to the (long) list of applications with a single swipe to the right, but the idea is that your home screen will be populated with various people and auto-updating information about them: here's your partner, here's their picture, here's their latest Facebook status. (Twitter support? Probably - Seesmic is developing one.) Ran suggests that this gives  you a more direct way to interact with a particular person (click their picture and choose how you're going to contact them - phone? text? Facebook?) then deciding to contact someone, and then choosing which app you're going to use to do it with.An interesting element of WP7 is how it indicates that there's more to learn about an element: by using text which is cut off by the edge of the screen. So you might see a legend sayingMusic Vide: the missing "o" indicates that by swiping right you'll see information about your videos.Seen statically, in a screenshot, this looks disastrous; but in action it quickly becomes completely sensible. (For vertical scrolling, WP7 does have a scroll bar - though it's barely visible. Possibly the designers felt this would detract from the uncluttered look. They might have a point, but scroll bars are very useful - arguably, indispensable - UI elements.)At launch, it will have some notable deficits:•no Flash, initially;• no cut and paste, initially;• no HTML5, initially (and possibly not for longer than either of others: "you can assume that in the future versions we will look at what we can do with the team there as well," said Ran, which I take to mean "not for quite some time").• No multitasking, except between the Microsoft apps themselves.• No Mac support at launch.• No support (at present) for Flickr or Google Picasa as a source of pictures; only Facebook and Windows Live.• No timetable for the addition of Flash, which might make these a tough sell to the more knowledgeable buyer.• Games you buy on Xbox Marketplace on WP7 will show up in the Games hub, but not in the app list. (There's no way to control this manually either.)I was assured that every WP7 phone bought without Flash and cut &amp; paste will be upgradeable over the air (which will be done by Microsoft) at a future date if|when Flash|cut&amp;paste support is added. "We had to make hard choices about what's in the product and what's not [in the RTM version]" Ran said. Even so it's surprising that Microsoft, which built the browser for WP7 from the Internet Explorer 7 branch, couldn't get a Flash plugin incorporated in time.And cut and paste? Microsoft argues that the interface dynamic of WP7 should obviate most uses of cut and paste: the system is "aware" of what a phone number is, what an address is, what a URL is, and so on - so that pressing it will bring up an interface which will let you add a contact to your phone book, or call their number, or open the URL.Overall? Windows Phone is a very interesting interface, and streets ahead of Nokia's S^3 (see my review).
Two mobile phone dynasties in trouble: Nokia and Microsoft. Nokia has binned its chief executive, and seen the head of its mobile phone business decide that he doesn't want to hang around after not getting the job. Microsoft, meanwhile, has seen its Windows Mobile brand ground into the dust, first by the iPhone and then by Google's Android. Even worse, its Kin phone - the outcome of its $500m acquisition of the very popular Danger phone maker - died on its feet, and was withdrawn after only a few weeks on sale from US carrier Verizon; it hasn't made it over to Europe.Now they're back, with new phones, new looks.It's self-evident that what makes smartphone effective is its software - the operating system, the inbuilt apps, and the developer ecosystem. Quite often, the surface matters; it's no good having a fantastic operating system under the hood if it's impossible to get anything done without resorting to hard-to-memorise incantations. That's why most of us use windowing systems rather than command lines. Equally, if you have a windowing system on a touch-screen system, you need one which is consistent and responsive and informative: if touching an app sometimes does one thing and other times something else, that's no good; ditto if the same app looks different in different places but does the same thing, or if the display doesn't tell you what's going on.With that in mind, here are my potted analyses of Nokia's latest phones (using Symbian S^3), and separately of Windows Phone 7, from a user interface perspective.NokiaIf I were to choose one word to describe the S^3 interface on the N8/E7/C6/C7, it would be:inconsistent. If I had another word to throw in, it would besluggish.There's a lack of consistency in the hardware design, which contrasts heavily with Windows Phone 7, where there will always be three, andjustthree, main buttons on the bottom edge of the phone: Back, Home, and Search.On the Nokia phones, the home button wanders all over: on the E7 there's a single button in the middle; on the N8, it's on the bottom left; on the C7, there's a green button on the left, a black one in the middle, and a red one on the right. Why? Why not have it in a standard place, so each Nokia smartphone is consistent?That reminds me of Apple in the mid-90s, before Jobs returned and shook it by the scruff of the neck: there were loads of different products, and as Don Norman, a user interface expert who worked there recalls, there wasn't even consistency in where you'd find the power button. That led to horrendous supply chain and manufacturing problems and pushed up costs unnecessarily (because you couldn't use surplus buttons from another low-selling range if you were short of those for a high-selling range).Next, the interface. The S^3 interface has a number of problems with consistency and the message it gives you. For instance, the first screen when the phone is turned on has a number of translucent icons; you can see some of the background image through them. Swiping to the right or left pulls up another screen, but there was a definite lag - so bad that by swiping back and forth quickly you can put the system into hysteresis - you're swiping to the right but the screen is still moving to the left. That'sterribleUI design. And this was on the demonstration phones, which aren't encumbered with extras.Sure, you can say that nobody's going to do that. But swiping is a fundamental behaviour of the phone; if it can't handle this, then that promises badly for other UI interactions. Can you imagine Steve Jobs ever allowing an iPhone with such a flaw out of the door? I've got a two-year-old iPod Touch, which creaks along on the new iOS 4.01 (loading apps takes an age), but I can't get that hysteresis to happen.There are other elements which betray a lack of integrated design. The initial screen on these phones show a number of translucent icons (you can change which ones); some of the background image is visible through them. Press an icon and it launches that app. Fair enough. Next, try a swipe to the right (which is what the iPhone and Android interfaces have made the default): you get a new screen. However, it's not got the same background image as the previous one - because, it turns out, that "front" page is an app - the menu - and now you're looking at the list of apps. But (another UI flaw) you might not realise that you've got a lot of apps, because you only get a scroll bar on the right-hand side of the displayonce you start scrolling.And why have a separate folder of apps? Why shouldn't the apps be directly accessible from the menu? (And why is the menu a separate app in its own right? Conceptually, that's very strange.) Once you start asking questions like this, you get pulled down a rabbit hole of wondering quite who had the overall vision of how the software should be designed, and whether they tested it for irritancy on humans.The E7 also has a slide-out keyboard (which Nokia board member Niklas Savandermemorably struggled, and failed, to slide out and demonstratewhen I met him). It's surprisingly hard to get out; you have to know where to prod, or how to pull, and there are no immediately obvious clues. Very likely you would know within a week of using it, butintuitivedesign - as Norman puts it, the "affordances" of an object (such as handles or knobs on doors) - should communicate itself at once.Personally, I didn't like the keyboard - not for the button action, but for its width/height ratio: compared to a BlackBerry, G1 Android (the first slide-out keyboard model) or iPhone, the E7's keyboard is extremely wide and not very high, which means your thumbs are moving around a lot yet struggling to find keys. A less wide keyboard would have been better. It would be interesting to know what user testing Nokia did on this, and especially what comparative testing it did against its own existing phone range and other smartphones. (Nokia people, you cancontact me. Anonymity guaranteed.)Overall? I was surprised by the low quality. The hardware on these phones may be stunning, but if basic things like screen swipes don't work correctly, there's always going to be an annoyance factor.Next, compare this withmy review of the Windows Phone 7 interface.
We now have proof, if any was needed, that Apple accounts for  a disproportionate amount of media space, according to research byPew. The centre found that 15.1% of tech articles are about Apple compared with 11.4% for Google, 7.1% for Twitter, 4.8% for Facebook and 3% for Microsoft.Apple probably even dominates coverage about it dominating tech coverage. How meta.Photo bymac morrisonon Flickr.Some rights reservedNYTsays Pew's deputy director Amy Mitchell said Apple's "very public way of releasing products" was a big part of the cycle, but was also surprised the survey found such a lead over Google.Pew's research reviewed tech coverage in 437 stories by 52 US media outlets across TV, radio, print and web for the 12 months up to June 2010. iPhone 4 was the most covered story over that year accounting for 6.4% of coverage, while iPad accounted for 4.6% and Windows new operating system just 0.5%.Publishers explain away the excess of Apple coverage by saying that those stories are popular with readers. But are readers just focusing on those stories because there are so many of them? Either way, it's extremely good news for Apple, which effectively outsources its marketing by offering minimal PR outreach beyond product launches; 42% of stories about Apple describe the company as innovative and superior compared to 17% saying products don't live up to the hype.Elsewhere in the research the focus of stories was examined. Upbeat stories about new gadgets and tools and shared space with privacy violations and online threats to child safety, while by far the biggest story was about the dangers of texting while driving - accounting for more than five times more coverage than national US broadband plans and six times more than net neutrality. Tech coverage only accounted for 1.6% of overall news output, ranking its 20th of 26th topics behind crime but ahead of religion.
When finished copies ofEnslaved: Odyssey to the Westand PES 2011 arrived on Saturday I knew it was going to be a great gaming weekend. It lived up to expectations and I'll have impressions of both games up later today (or possibly tomorrow morning). Anyway, what about you? How was your gaming weekend? All about Dead Rising 2?
A demon-filled fog has enveloped the kingdom of Boletaria and now the bravest warriors must penetrate this gaseous hell to save the land. The setting sounds like familiar RPG hokum but Demon's Souls is not your average dungeon crawler. Cult Japanese developer From Software has instead constructed a deep, imposing and tactically rich adventure with a rewarding combat system and masses of character customisation. Complete with online co-op and asynchronous multiplayer elements, it's been a leftfield hit in the West, despite (or perhapsbecause of) the fact that it's punishingly difficult.If you're new to the game, or already deeply absorbed but in need of guidance, help is at hand. We've spoken to Matthew Whisker and Wayne Gibson, the writers of the official Guide to Demon's Souls and administrators of theDemon's Souls Wikidot. Here are their quick hints for Demon's Souls success...1. At the start you have the option of about eight or nine different characters. Which one gives you the best chance of success and why?Wayne:When you start for the very first time, a Royalty class is, in my view, the best choice. The main reason is you get a decent spell with ranged ability, and it helps until you learn the techniques of dodging, parrying, and the habit of always keeping your shield up.Matthew:Another good choice is the Temple Knight, which has an excellent set of stats for a melee combat-orientated character, and starts with a full set of armour, a good shield and a halberd which is deadly when wielded in two hands. Remember to un-equip some of the heavy armour at the beginning though, as you won't have the Endurance to wear it all and still roll/sprint normally.Wayne:Once you get those habits and skills under your belt, then there is no real "best choice" for a starting class. It just depends on what type of character you would like to make. I would recommend that you visit the wiki and look at the Character Builds page that the users have submitted. Everyone can vote on how good they think a build is, so you can get a sense of which ones might have more merit than others. You should certainly read the top five or 10 and see if any of them fit your preferred play style.2. What tips do you have for defeating enemies in one-on-one combat?Wayne:Learn to Parry/Riposte! A parry/riposte will take down almost, if not every, enemy in the game except for bosses. The damage output on a riposte is insanely high. The best method for practicing this is on the dreglings in the first world (Boletarian Palace). You can usually survive at least one hit on a dregling, so it gives you two or three shots to practice before you die, assuming you miss the parry. It can be frustrating to get the hang of it, and you'll still miss from time to time, but once you get it, it is deadly.Matthew:It also comes in handy for dealing with the rolling skeletons in the Shrine of Storms. Raise your shield and block them rolling into you, then parry when they swing their sword. With practice, parrying and riposting can be adapted to work well even against other players. Weapons like daggers and rapiers have an innate bonus to backstab and riposte damage too, especially with the Fatal upgrade.Wayne:Use your shield! Keep it up all the time. Things jump out at you constantly when you walk through doors, or around corners, or sometimes just up a flight of stairs. The shield is not decorative. This is not Call of Duty, you can't just run into a room spraying bullets everywhere. If you run straight into a room in this game, especially if you've never been there before and have no idea what is waiting for you, you're just going to die a lot.  So, use the shield and take your time. Ironically, the more patient you are while progressing through a level, the faster you'll finish the level. Rushing through and dying three quarters of the way into a level sends you back to the start and you have to go through again and all the enemies have respawned.Matthew:The best shield in each category would be the Dark Silver Shield +5 for small shields and the Purple Flame Shield +10 for large shields, the DSS being my personal favourite for its versatility, parrying ability and 100% Magic damage resistance on block, as well as a passive bonus to Magic Defence.3. Do you have any useful general tactics on good combinations and how to maximise weapon power?Wayne:A good tactic to bear in mind is the "maximize weapon power" option. A weapon is upgraded with stones that you find, and there are over a dozen types of those stones. Each stone does a particular type of upgrade on a weapon and you cannot have more than one type of stone upgrade on a weapon at a time. The stones are gone once you apply them to a weapon. Most weapons require some number of shards, large shards, chunks, and one or two pure types of stone. The latter two can be difficult, and sometimes impossible, to find on a single play through. Please go to the wiki and carefully review the information on the stones. More info is available there on the the various upgrades and the weapons. It's worth planning out your weapon upgrade path before you play. I didn't do this, and used stones on things that really didn't help me that much. I regretted it, since I had to start over and they are so hard to come by.Matthew:In terms of tactics, the most important thing is to use a weapon with a moveset that compliments your playstyle. You also need to remember that some weapons perform much better in a two-handed style, eg: the Great Axe. It's one of the deadliest weapons in the game in both PvP and PvE, yet this only applies if you wield it in two hands, meaning you have access to its great rolling attack and powerful three hit combo. Polearms like the Mirdan Hammer are also much more effective in two hands, so experiment!For purely PvP combinations, some of the most common setups have an Uchigatana of some variety in the left hand. This is because the L1 Uchi attack is very fast and has a wide angle, allowing you to prevent an opponent from circling around you, and lock them in a combo with your right-hand weapon.Buffs of some form or another are also essential for any kind of play in Demon's Souls. Second Chance is a must-have no matter what you plan on doing, and Warding can almost completely nullify physical damage for a short period of time, making it very effective against other players and demons alike. A term you will see thrown around a lot is the 'Cracked ToB' referring to the Talisman of Beasts, which, with the right stat setup (18 Int, 6 Magic, 16 Faith is the usual one) will allow you to get Curse Weapon without suffering the huge percentage HP drain that offsets the 50% damage bonus of the buff.However, it takes a little more explaining than that, so please look it up on the Wiki for info on exactly why this happens, and how useful it can be. Light Weapon performs very well on faster weapons using the Insanity Catalyst and around 30 Magic, especially those with innate magical damage like the Blueblood Sword, so the LW BBS (as we abbreviate it) is another common sight in the self-made PvP arena of 4-1.4. How about collecting souls? How do you get as many as possible?Wayne:The Wiki page has a good section on finding good areas for farming souls. Generally speaking though there are quite a few tips on this. My personal favourite (because I like using bows) is killing the grim reaper in world 4-2 (4-2 is also called the Adjudicator Stone). The reaper is almost right at the beginning of the level at the bottom of what is best described as a pit. There are shadow lurkers all around him, and if you shoot him two to four times (depends on attack power of arrows and bow) he dies and all the shadow lurkers die as well. The best part is, you get ALL of their souls.Matthew:Another good trick is to use the Silver Bracelets, Ring of Avarice and Soul Thirst, if you have them, and kill all the enemies in 4-3 using Stormruler before touching the Archstone and warping out. Don't forget to pick up any upgrade stones they might have dropped!5. Do you have any advice on defeating the end-of-level bosses?Wayne:This varies a lot. In fact, each boss is fairly unique in what it takes to kill them. For some players, Flamelurker is the hardest, at least the first time you fight him. I will warn you about one other boss that should be super easy but not always, as I had the misfortune of finding out.  When you fight the boss named Penetrator, if you have freed an NPC named Biorr, then Biorr will help you with the fight, and this results in the Penetrator focusing pretty much exclusively on Biorr. Since you can just attack him without really attracting his attention, this makes Penetrator an easy boss.  However, as I found out, if you don't free Biorr or you kind of kill him just to see what will happen if you do then you fight Penetrator alone, and he suddenly becomes a lot more difficult. Not impossible … just a lot more difficult. For details on how to defeat each boss, visit the wiki again – the boss section is our most often visited page according to Google Analytics tracking.Matthew:Another boss worth mentioning in terms of difficulty is the final boss of Boletarian Palace – the False King. He used to give me real trouble when I first started playing the game, as he is very fast, aggressive and has some of the most damaging attacks your character will ever be exposed to. The important things to remember for him are to try and summon some help – it's very beneficial to have him going after two people instead of focussing on one, as this will help you avoid getting soulsucked by him. If you do get soulsucked, you can get them back easily enough, and the souls you get as a reward for beating him will more than likely pay for any levels you lose. Finally, when you see him plant his sword in the ground, don't run away and try and avoid his area-of-effect attack like you would logically do. instead, run up to him and hit him, it makes him flinch and he stops charging the attack. The mistake I would make would be to run away from it – it has incredible range and is nearly impossible to avoid unless you make him flinch.If I had any general advice for the game as a whole it would be to be patient, don't take risks and don't let the game get the better of you. If you die in the game, it is because you, as the player, made a mistake. Sure, the game can be brutal, the enemies are tough, the bosses are sometimes downright unfair, and you can't control it when another player decides to rain on your parade (except by playing offline, and we all know that's boring), but as time goes on and you get better at the game, you'll realise that the deaths are down to you usually being too aggressive, too reckless or sometimes not reckless enough. I'll leave it to you to find the right balance!Coming soon: yet more tips and insider info courtesy of the From Software development team! (We're just getting it all translated...)
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My iPhone, not that I'm very dexterous with it. Just having it somewhere that I can store things and communicate despite the fact that the drain on the battery is huge. I do not understand why iPhones have so little battery life.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I had to send an email on it this morning because I have no internet connection in the house at the moment.What features would you add if  you could?I think that what I would add to it would be the ability just to speak to it – voice activation, that would be great.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, it will just be hugely modified. I can't see somebody taking over from Apple – it would be interesting if they would.What always frustrates you about technology in general?The instruction manual.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?My CD player in the kitchen – I need a perfect CD player, and I haven't got one. The lid keeps jamming, so I can't use it.If you had one tip about getting the  best out of new technology, what  would it be?Getting a person who knows about technology to help you.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Neither. Im not a nerd, because I don't understand very much of it, but I do love technology. I'm just a hopeful ingenue.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My car – a Mercedes 180 estate.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I buy CDs – I like having the physical product, I like the artwork on the covers, although it's not as good as  the old vinyl sleeves. I prefer books  too, I can't imagine having a Kindle or an iPad.Mac or PC, and why?PC, because traditionally I've always used PCs, but Macs are much cooler, although I can't see myself changing now.Robot butlers: a good idea or not?I'd like one, but the only thing it would have to do is take the things that I leave at the bottom of the stairs to the top of the stairs.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'd like a Harrier jump jet, so I could get from Glasgow to London really quickly.
Presenting a visual and aural assault that befits gaming's last hurrah of the year, the Tokyo Game Show swarms with the most enthusiastic fans (a record-breaking 200,000 of them) in the world – it's the perfect opportunity to showcase upcoming titles ahead of the packed Christmas release schedule. Here, beneath arching lighting rigs and the hypnotic flickering of monitors, amid thundering music and bellowing megaphones, the game is all about making yourself heard.Understandably, on the eve of the release of their Kinect controller-free motion sensor system for Xbox 360 (out 10 November), Microsoft were keenest to take centre stage, presenting the keynote address. Celebrating the scale of the industry –Halo: Reachtook $200m on launch day – the manufacturer was intent on proving a commitment to Kinect that has similar targets in mind.Five exclusives were revealed as coming to the platform. Firstly,Killer7creator Suda 51's involvement withcodename D, placing gamers controller-free in an evil amusement park, then more horror from Sega'sRise of Nightmares– both expanding on the genres on offer for Kinect.Hauntwas a light-hearted take on the same, while the flying-stood-atop-enormous-dragons ofProject Dracowill be embraced by fans ofPanzer Dragoon. There was also a welcome return for an original Xbox title inSteel Battalion: Heavy Armour– the original, a mech-battler with a huge, multi-buttoned joystick add-on, upgraded in the sequel for full body control – an example of one direction the new hardware may take. Aimed at core gamers, the trailer nailed its target audience – D-Day, on Manhattan island, set in the future. With mechs.Other standouts included a demo of the disarmingly accurate swordplay coming inMetal Gear Solid: Risingand, for Kinect, the spectacular colours and soundscapes of the shooter you "conduct" to play,Child of Eden, while, for old-school fans of the same genre but with classic controls,Radiant Silvergunis to be revived on Xbox Live Arcade.Microsoft are behind rivals Sony and Nintendo (the latter, oddly, do not usually attend their home show and did not this year) in Japan, but came out fighting here with Kinect, and it may be working: Japanese newspaper theAsahi Shimbunreported, with not a little surprise, queues of an hour and a half for hands-on time with Kinect on a day the floor was open only to trade; they were even longer when the public entered.Electronic Arts also joined the fray, with highlights including Suda 51 showcasing his new title for them,Shadows of the Damned, a distinctive but apparently less-than-wholly-serious horror outing; an equally intriguing title for the 3DS, horticulture simMy Garden(tend plants to attract animals – not everyone's first guess for 3D) which will be a launch release for the console; and designer American McGee showcasing the sequel to his ownAlice,Alice: Madness Returns, due out at the end of next year.Sony, unsurprisingly, were right behind their new controller Move, not least with forthcoming titles likeKillzone 3andLittleBigPlanet 2. They also whetted the appetite of racers in the form of dynamic weather during night racing in the long-awaitedGran Turismo 5(out 3 November) that looked stunning. 3D demos of the same game were hugely popular – driving games may benefit from the technology more than most.Real excitement ensued when Sony confirmed that Team Ico'sThe Last Guardianwill be out at the end of next year and showed more impressive footage – judging by fans' reactions, it will feel like a long wait. There was also a big buzz as Capcom joined the manufacturer to announce a "dark, more brutal" instalment of theDevil May Cryseries.Elsewhere, the team behindDemon's Soulspreviewed its spiritual successor with action role-playerProject Dark. Capcom's fighterMarvel vs Capcom 3, which will featureResident Evilvillain Albert Wesker, drew big crowds. Sega revealed a lurch in a new direction for theYakuzaseries from goons with guns to hitmen and huuurgh asYakuza: Of the Endpits players against zombies. Ubisoft trailedMichael Jackson: The Experience, no doubt destined for huge sales, and although the most exciting versions for Kinect and Move are only out next year, the DS iteration (out 23 November, along with Wii and PSP versions) plays very much like the marvellousElite Beat Agents. Square Enix had fun with team-based shooterGun Loco(360, out next year) in which interstellar criminals have at one another, and offered an enjoyable, frenetic romp. Finally, there was no better place than Tokyo to sample Level 5's take on animation giants Studio Ghibli's style in the PS3 version of RPGNi no Kuni(out next year); featuring beautifully rendered cel-shading, with breathtaking character animation, its evocative, quiet charm amid the pandemonium was a show stealer.Eurogamer ExpoEarls Court, London SW5,1-3 OctFortunately for UK gamers some of the titles on show in Tokyo will not remain distant promises delivered some 6,000 miles away but are on offer to view and, most importantly play at the Eurogamer Expo. Part of the London Games festival, a month-long celebration of the industry throughout the capital, the show, organised by independent website Eurogamer, will be offering hands-and-full-body-on with Kinect and other major games from Japan such asGran Turismo 5,LittleBigPlanet 2andKillzone 3correct, as well as some of the biggest forthcoming releases. Playable titles include: the big football face-off ofFifa 11andPro Evo 2011,Gears of War 3,Fallout: New Vegas,Fable III, the newMedal of Honor,Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood,Crysis 2, the throwing shapes and spinning discs ofJust Dance 2andDef Jam Rapstar,Dead Space 2,Vanquishand the Andy "Gollum" Serkis-voicedEnslaved: Odyssey to the West.Interestingly, given the increase in numbers of young people who now want to work in gaming, it's good to see the show (unusually for a games event) also featuring a careers fair offering advice and information for anyone seeking a future in the industry. Professionals from Sega, Microsoft's Rare studio, Sports Interactive, Crytek and Creative Assembly, alongside representatives from universities and colleges will be on hand to help guide budding young talent towards putting all those hours of joypad bashing to good use.Details and tickets: http://www. eurogamer.net
One of my children is starting at university this month and it was solemnly and jointly agreed that a) she needed a new laptop and b) that Dad would pay for it. So we headed off to the Apple store.We were careful to go on a weekday, because bitter experience has taught us that the weekends are a no-go area in that particular establishment, which doubles as a free internet cafe, teenage rendezvous and Facebook updating station. Yet when we arrived, around 11am, the place was heaving, with a queue of people snaking into the street.I was resigning myself to purchasing online rather than endure a two-hour wait when an Apple salesman approached. "We want to buy a MacBook," I said, "but don't have time to wait that long." "Oh," he said, "I can get you a computer straight away. The queue is for the iPhone 4."After he'd departed to fetch the laptop, I stared at the queue. It was overwhelmingly male in composition, and – if the languages spoken were any guide – made up mostly of people who were not British citizens."Wow!" I said to the returning salesman, "it looks as though Apple really underestimated the demand for the iPhone." He looked at me pityingly. "They're not buying for themselves," he said. "They're buying them to flog back home. I sold four to one guy this morning for £2,400. In cash."It turns out that a sim-free 32GB iPhone purchased in the UK for £599 can be effortlessly unloaded in Dubai or Beijing or Abu Dhabi – or any other market where there is rampant wealth and Apple hasn't yet officially launched&nbsp;the device – for several times the UK price.While the laptop transaction was going through, I had a good look round the heaving store. It was an amazing sight, thronged with people of all ages – from chirpy young girls gushing over the new iPod range, to teenage boys pompously explaining the merits of onboard video cards to one another, to thirtysomething business people investigating iPads, to baby-boomer parents buying laptops for their kids or iPods for their grandchildren. There was a buzz I haven't seen in any other retail outlet since Richard Branson launched the first Virgin Megastore way back at the end of – when was it? – the Precambrian era.This retail phenomenon is the monster that Steve Jobs has unleashed on the world. He has positioned Apple at a pivotal point in a series of exploding markets and he controls the toll gate through which everything flows – the iTunes store. No wonder he is loathed and feared (in equal measure) by the industries – music, movies, mobile phones – whose fates he now controls.At the centre of the Appleverse sits a single, crucial piece of desktop software – iTunes. You can do very little with an Apple device without hooking it up to iTunes. Until now, this has given Apple a key strategic advantage over all other competitors. But, as Britain discovered with the Suez canal in the 1950s, being unduly dependent on a single strategic asset can also have serious downsides.The problem is that iTunes is now a pretty ancient piece of software. When it first appeared in 2001 as a reworking of SoundJam, a program Apple bought from a Californian company in 1999, it provided an elegant way of doing just one thing: getting songs from&nbsp;CDs on to your computer's hard drive. But over the years, more and more functions have been added: first the management of iPods, then the Apple online store. Then iTunes became the conduit for managing one's iPhone. The latest addition is the Ping social-networking function.This is what the industry calls "feature creep" on an heroic scale. One seasoned commentator, Wade Roush, reckons that iTunes is now called upon to perform 27 distinct functions – whichleads him to call it "the Leaning Tower of Ping". "Adding a social-networking interface, on top of all of iTunes' other functions," he says, "is like grafting another limb to the forehead of an octopus. It's just too&nbsp;much."He's right. It's inconceivable that Apple doesn't know this too. So somewhere in Cupertino there must be a team working on redesigning iTunes from the ground up. And if there isn't, then perhaps Steve Jobs ought to check out theWikipedia entry for the Suez&nbsp;crisis.
Dead Rising 2, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Our love affair with zombies is a tough love, primarily expressed through the medium of shotgun or chainsaw. Dead Rising 2 takes this affection several stages further, by allowing you to assemble previously disparate death-dealing measures into combo weapons: Heath Robinson contraptions for zombie mutilation, which earn you extra points for inventiveness. Starting with some electric drills and a bucket (macabre headwear for one unlucky zombie) things quickly escalate to incorporate all manner of hardware. There's a plot about clearing hero Chuck Greene's name and helping find Zombrex, the anti-zombification drug, for his daughter, but at heart this is all about running around culling undead in ever-more gruesome ways. Although its mechanics are refined, the appeal of its essentially brain dead nature depends very much on you.Capcom, £34.99-£54.99Last Window: The Secret Of Cape West, Nintendo DSiLast Window: The Secret Of Cape West.An embittered former New York detective moves to Los Angeles to escape his bad memories and start again. You join the story as he loses his job and finds out he's about to be evicted from his flat, which precipitates intrigue that starts with his apartment building and ends up pointing to his father's murderer. Holding your DSi like a book, this is a point'n'click adventure where stabs of the stylus let you investigate rooms, question suspects and perambulate around the environment. Conversations play out slowly, and while detailed explanation is welcome, the game's sometimes glacial progression can make it feel more like a grinding chore than entertainment. With none of the wit or flair of – say – Broken Sword, it even manages to miss the pace of Phoenix Wright: Attorney At Law, a minor work, but one that at least made good use of the touchscreen and had the decency to get on with its plot. Last Window, while accessible, is ineffably tedious.Nintendo, £34.95Eurogamer Expo 2010, LondonEurogamer Expo 2010.With most games publishers saving their bestsellers for the Christmas season, the coming few months are packed with a huge number of astoundingly good games. So many, that few will ever have the money or free time to play them all. So, Eurogamer Expo 2010 arrives at exactly the right moment to let you see and spend a bit of hands-on time with some of the choicest morsels for the rest of this year and next. Highlights of the show include inFAMOUS 2, a sequel to last year's free-roaming enemy-electrocute-'em-up; Vanquish, Sega's futuristic third person shooter; Medal Of Honor, baiting the Daily Mail by allowing you to play as Taliban militia and more playable than recent efforts in the series; Enslaved: Odyssey To The West, a post-apocalyptic retelling of the Monkey legend and Def Jam: Rapstar, a karaoke game for people who don't like singing. Expect a lot of loud music and more plasma screensper square foot than Richer Sounds.Earls Court, SW5, Fri to 3 Oct
Killin' ItKillin' It, in the words of internet philosopher Paul Crik, is "the soughtafter peaceful union of the free individual with functioning society" or perhaps "spiritual fullness unfettered by the reigns of institutionalism". It is also Roger Federer's audacious between-his-legs shot at the US Open or the woman who grew her fingertip back. Delivered in a series of blog entries and short YouTube clips, Crik may be taking a comedic swipe at America's self-help industry, but he's still full of life-enhancing brainhacks. Any situation, he says, can be faced by remembering three key phrases: "this is it", "fuck it" and "it is what it is"; oh, and it's important that you have all three phrases "in your heart". Elsewhere he's a bit more blatant, encouraging swearing at babies and comparing Koran-burning pastor Terry Jones to Yosemite Sam. Just by visiting this website you will, in fact, be killin' it.Crap GraffitiCrap Graffiti.Before Twitter, there was another form of communication people used to share jokes about celebrities, friends and the hilarity of male genitals – graffiti. The only equipment needed for the task was a marker pen and a flat surface. Crap Graffiti – not to be confused with the artistic fonts and graphics preferred by street artists – lives on, and the desire to draw a cock and balls on a bus shelter remains as strong as ever. That's not to say that there isn't good stuff here, especially the Snappy Snaps wall that George Michael hit, which now contains the simple message "Wham". It's also interesting to note that the urge to review pop culture extends beyond the internet; how else can we explain someone writing "Toy Story 2 was alright" on a loo wall?Blog roll: VHSJapanese VHS Hell.Japanese VHS HellPsychos In Love and other decidedly troubling-looking videos big in Japan during the video era.Total RewindThe virtual museum of VCR history from the great Betamax war to death by DVD.Found Footage FestJoys discovered on discarded video tapes from Jazzercise lessons to Mr T shouting about his mum.Crap Video ArtworkA site where Mexican monster movies and  heavy metal compilation tapes are given equal love.Cult VHSCovers and trailers from vintage smut and horror unlikely to ever make it to Blu-ray.What we learned on the web this weekHow To Build A Dalek.How to buildyour own, full-size DalekWho themost adaptable actor in Hollywood isHow to becomea fictional serial killerSesame Street'sfinest momentsBieber feveris contagious. Highly contagiousWhat theInception trailer would have been like on a budget of 75pWhiskasis niceGoogle didn'tstart the fireHow to findthe shortest route between two Wikipedia articlesWhere to getsome Instant Sex, Camel Balls and Liquid Terror
There's a scene inThe Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy radio showin which Arthur Dent encounters some terrifying space animal. Dent asks one of his entourage, "Is&nbsp;it&nbsp;safe?" to which he receives the reply, "Oh yes, it's perfectly safe. It's&nbsp;us I'm worried about."That dialogue was written before the Mitsubishi Shogun arrived in the&nbsp;universe, back in 1982 (in Earth years), but it could have applied just as well to the monster 4x4 or any of its various rivals and imitators. The safari suit in motorised form, the Shogun offered two big advantages to drivers: it was good at getting out of mud quarries and it was only slightly less well protected than a nuclear bunker. All it offered pedestrians and other road users, however, was an invitation to get out of the way.Since its arrival, the Shogun has steadily grown in size and insulation, and the new Shogun Elegance is larger than the average London bedsit and considerably more tastefully decked out. Indeed, there's far too much cream padding to imagine exploring its seemingly impressive off-road capabilities in earnest.For a start, the one I drove was factory-fresh white, which doesn't encourage a cavalier approach to dirty puddles, let alone a heathland quagmire. The other problem about off-road driving is where do you do it? Snowdonia, perhaps, but that's a&nbsp;bit of a slog from my house. The truth is that while the car might be up to the job, most of southern England – which is really one vast well-manicured suburb – is not.So one's attention turns to its other attributes. The latest Shogun is greener than its predecessor, but that's a bit like saying Cairo is quieter than Lagos. In terms of speed, as long as you're not in a rush, it gets going once it gets going. The long retractable sunroof is a boon, though some passengers might not be able to resist the urge to stand up and look out, as if surveying the plains of the Serengeti. And obviously that would contravene the kind of high levels of health and safety for which the Shogun is justly renowned.Space-wise, there's room enough for a civic ceremony, plus two more seats in the boot that flip up with minimal effort – if the car is parked on a flat surface. For here we come to the hidden danger beneath the image of total security: the back door. It opens sideways, and with its spare tyre and various other gubbins, it couldn't be any heavier if it were lead-lined, which it may well be.Warning: do not try lifting the rear seats while parked on a sideways incline. I made that mistake and it was only good fortune that enabled the hitherto close relationship between my legs and torso to continue. Is it safe? Just mind that door.Mitsubishi Shogun Elegance 3.2Price£34,998.99Top speed111mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.1 secondsAverage consumption33.2mpgCO2 emissions224g/kmEco rating3/10Bound forWindsor Safari ParkIn a wordElephantine
Facebook engineers wrestling with a fiendishly complex networking problem that had put the site offline for more than two hours discovered a surprisingly simple solution: they simply turned the site off and then on again.The solution, beloved of computer support desks dealing with frustrated PC users, turned out to be the only solution for the social networking site, which has 500m users worldwide and whose chief executive and co-founder, Mark Zuckerberg, wasclaimed to be worth $6.9bn(£4.4bn) on Thursday.Robert Johnson, the site's head of software engineering,apologisedfor the failure, the site's worst in four years. It was caused by a runaway condition at a "database cluster" of computer servers among the 500 sites that form Facebook's worldwide network. In the end, said Johnson, "we had to stop all traffic to this database cluster, which meant turning off the site".The problems occurred late on Thursday in the UK, the early evening on the US east coast and afternoon on the US west coast. The reaction was swift: "Facebook is down. In other news, office productivity is up across America,"tweetedMatt Moore.The problem arose because Facebook has a central server system, and a set of outlying servers that users connect to, which then connect with the central system. The outlying servers have to know certain setup data to run properly.But a mistake by the Facebook engineers gave them the wrong setup data – which meant that they deluged the central system with requests for the correct data. "Usually you wouldn't expect them all to want to connect at the same time," said Mark Sutton, a systems architect for the hosting company Fubra. "Facebook hadn't considered that there might be a situation where they'd all query the central server at the same time."The central server, overwhelmed, began handing out more wrong information, and the problem snowballed, so that every outlying server could not connect – and Facebook disappeared from the web. About 350,000 sites that used its "Like" button saw those stop operating too.The only solution: turn off the site completely and correct the information, and bring the servers back online gradually.The outage lasted two and a half hours. By then the damage had already been done, as millions of people around the world tried and failed, to connect to the site. Every day 50% of its registered users log in at least once – and as news spread of its failure, more and more tried to log in, making the problem worse."I don't think the damage will be long-term, but it's very frustrating for any user," said Paul Armstrong, director of social media at Kindred, an advertising and marketing agency. "It's a big deal for them, but it's not part of an ongoing problem with reliability like Twitter has had this year."
A computer worm which targets industrial and factory systems is almost certainly the work of a national government agency, security experts told the Guardian – but warn that it will be near-impossible to identify the culprit.The "Stuxnet" computer worm, which has been described as one of the "most refined pieces of malware ever discovered", has been most active in Iran, says the security company Symantec – leading some experts to conjecture that the likely target of the virus is the controversialBushehr nuclear power plant, and that it was created by Israeli hackers.Speaking to the Guardian, security experts confirmed that Stuxnet is a targeted attack on industrial locations in specific countries, the sophistication of which takes it above and beyond previous attacks of a similar nature.Graph shows concentration of Stuxnet-infected computers in Iran as of August. Photograph: SymantecLatest figures, from August, show 60% of computers infected by Stuxnet are located in Iran – dramatically up from July, when it accounted for less than 25% of infections, research by Symantec shows, with the graph below (from 4 August) showing the prevalence in other countries by comparison. The company estimates that the group building Stuxnet would have been well-funded, comprising between five and 10 people, and that it would have taken six months to prepare.Alan Bentley, senior international vice president at security firm Lumension, said Stuxnet is "the most refined piece of malware ever discovered", and that the worm was significant because "mischief or financial reward wasn't its purpose, it was aimed right at the heart of a critical infrastructure".However Graham Cluley, senior consultant with the online security company Sophos, warned against jumping to conclusions about the target of the attack, saying "sensationalist" headlines were "a worry". Clulely is wary of reports linking Stuxnet with Israel: "It's very hard to prove 100% who created a piece of malware, unless you are able to gather evidence from the computer they created it on – or if someone admits it, of course."But he said that its characteristics did not suggest a lone group. "I think we need to be careful about pointing fingers without proof, and I think it's more appropriate – if true – to call this a state-sponsored cyber attack rather than cyber terrorism."Stuxnet works by exploiting previously unknown security holes in Microsoft's Windows operating system. It then seeks out a component called Simatic WinCC, manufactured by Siemens, which controls critical factory operations. The malware even uses a stolen cryptographic key belonging to the Taiwanese semiconductor manufacturer RealTek to validate itself in high-security factory systems.The worm then takes over the computer running the factory process – which for WinCC would be "mission-critical" systems which have to keep functioning under any circumstance – and "blocks" it for up to a tenth of a second. For high-speed systems, such as the centrifuges used for nuclear fuel processing being done by Iran, that could be disastrous, experts suggested.US army forces are aware of the threat posed by Stuxnet, general Keith Alexander confirmed this week, saying early indications showed that the worm was "very sophisticated".Clulely told that Guardian that Siemens has "astonishingly" advised power plants and manufacturing facilities not to change the default password that allows access to functions, despite it being exploited by Stuxnet and being "public knowledge on the web for years".Alan Bentley, SVP International at Lumension, told the Guardian: "There is a lot of circumstantial evidence to suggest that Iran was the target of Stuxnet. We know that the worm was designed with a specific target in mind – its makeup and the way it executes render the tell-tale signs."Combine this with the fact that the worm was identified by a Belarusian security firm working for an Iranian client and the fact that the nuclear power plant was not working properly for months, it is understandable that speculation points towards Iran as the target. But, without being inside the walls of the Bushehr nuclear power plant, we can't be certain."Rik Ferguson, senior security adviser at Trend Micro, said: "Initially, it looks like a targeted attack. It saw a high percentage of infections concentrated in the Middle East. Iran being one. There's every possiblity that the [other countries affected] may have been collateral damage."Asked whether a nation state was behind the attack, Ferguson said: "The truth is we don't know. But we can look at the concentration [of the attacks]. I don't think we can call this cyberwarfare, I would call it modern espionage. Countries have been spying on their neighbours for years – as the technology has improved, espionage has always improved, and this is step in that direction."It's significant because it's not just the malware but the vulnerability to infect machines – if this had been in more traditional, criminal hands it could have been more widely used, like Conficker was. This was a powerful vulnerability it exploited and usually either you sell it for a lot of money or use it for mass criminality."David Emm, a senior security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, told the Guardian: "We think that Stuxnet's sophistication, purpose and the intelligence behind it suggest the involvement of a state."This is a very sophisticated attack – the first of its kind – and has clearly been developed by a highly skilled group of people intent on gaining access to SCADA [supervisory control and data acquisition] systems – industrial control systems for monitoring and managing industrial infrastructure or facility-based processes. In contrast to the bulk of indiscriminate cybercrime threats on the internet, this has been aimed at very specific targets. It's different also because there's no obvious financial motivation behind the attack – rather the aim seems to be to sabotage systems."However, John Pescatore, vice president for internet security at Gartner, said it was "definitely not the case" that Stuxnet would have required state sponsorship. "We've seen similarly targeted software going after credit card readers for financial gain in the past," he said. "Governments have no monopoly on the talent. We've seen attacks that looked like they were state-sponsored in the past launched by hackers for attention or citizens' groups. You cannot tell just by looking at where it landed."The experts agree that Stuxnet marks a shift away from malware deployed for financial gain to controlling critical machinery. We are now moving into a "third age" of cyber crime, Clulely said, where the intention of making money from technical exploits is replaced by an intention to bring down critical infrastructure. "We're entering this third age as well, where there are political, economic and military ways in which the internet can be exploited – and malware can be used – to gain advantage by foreign states."I think we will see more and more attacks which will be blamed on state-sponsored cyber attacks. There have been numerous attacks in the past which could be said to have possible military, political or economic motives, but it is very difficult to prove that a hack was ordered by Mossad or instead dreamt up by a Macclesfield student."
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?It is a tie between my cellphone and computer. I stay in touch with my friends and family more, read the news and play bridge with my computer. I babble away on my cellphone and no one really knows where I am if that should become an issue … great stuff.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used the cellphone just a few minutes ago and I am using the computer now.What additional features would you add if you could?Someone to scan things for me would be nice – perhaps a robot?Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Those (cellphone and computer) will be far more state of the art in 10 years, but we will still be using them.What always frustrates you about technology in general?The thing that has always frustrated me regarding technology is not learning it fast enough and also being a step behind at times. For example, when I was getting into 8-tracks everyone else was getting into cassettes, and then when I started buying cassettes, CDs became all the rage. I don't own an iPod. I don't have a flatscreen. I usually forget that I have two TVs.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I hated one of my video cameras and still do. I don't know where it is. I can't wait till I find it so I can throw it on the floor or out the window.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Go to the Apple store.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Somewhere in between. I would prefer to be Bill Gates, but I am not.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?The most expensive piece of technology that I have ever owned would be one of my computers that I kept having to have repaired.Mac or PC, and why?I like them both. My Mac, which is really a PC, is a desktop and my laptop is a "PC". The next toy I would like would be an iPad. Could you please send me one?Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I still like to buy CDs. I don't buy DVDs. My last purchase was a little video camera called the Flip. I love it. Now, I too can take videos of others on the sly – and it is user-friendly! I will keep it and if I lose it, I will replace it immediately. You can capture trips with it, and did I say that I love it?Robot butlers – a good idea or not?A very good idea. I would like a robot butler for doing the cooking and running errands.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I would like to own a remote that can be used to interface all of my equipment, so you only have to have one; and a loud horn to attach to my car to get the attention of the vehicle in front of you that is waiting for Christmas to arrive.•Camille Keaton – the granddaughter of silent film star Buster – stars in the remastered I Spit on Your Grave, which is out now on Blu-ray and DVD
These days, in our endlessly self-referencing culture, we're used to the excitement of an intriguing 'series reboot'. Christopher Nolan vs Batman, JJ Abrams vs Star Trek, Ronald D. Moore and David Eick vs Battlestar Galactica: such high profile pairings have become a staple element of the modern film and TV industries. They're currently rarer in games, however, where developers are often seen as anonymous and interchangeable technicians, lacking individual styles and idiosyncrasies.But this is different. Criterion, the Guildford-based studio behind the magnificent Burnout series, has become famous for breathtakingly exciting handling, jaw-dropping crash physics and brilliantly devised game structures. Meanwhile, EA's long-running road racing series Need For Speed has been fading for years but remains an influential legend. "I've been at EA for 20 years," says senior producer Matt Webster, "and I remember vividly seeing the very first Need For Speed on the 3DO. It's those moments that really stuck with me – when you're driving a black Testarossa down a sweeping coastal highway, being chased by the police. Need For Speed has been there throughout our careers. We wanted to take it right back to the beginning: exotic cars, epic drives."So we have a modern creative force swooning over an established but creaky brand. This is classic reboot territory. This was always going to be interesting. And having spent three hours with Hot Pursuit's multiplayer mode, we can confirm that the interest certainly isn't misplaced…The centre of the Hot Pursuit multiplayer universe is the beautifully presented Autolog, which Webster describes as, "a suite of connected features that allow gamers to connect, compare and compete with their NFS friends." In other words, it's Facebook for petrol heads. There's a Wall, where players can post messages and share snapshots taken within the game. And if you post about a specific race time, anyone who wants to have a go at beating you can just hit R2 to be zoomed to the same event. "It's a play/share loop," Webster continues. "We focus on friends because we think social competition is really important. There's nothing more powerful in games than beating a friend."So Autolog tracks everything you and your pals do in the game, allowing you to catch up with what everyone else has been doing, checking out their best event times, and making sure no one has beaten yours. All this data is fed to you through Twitter-style snippets that open up in mini-menus around the screen, allowing you to pick and choose short, contained challenges anytime you like. The trendy term is asynchronous multiplayer – the ability to compete and communicate with friends without necessarily being online at the same time. "The example I use is, it's hard enough to get a bunch of people together to go down the pub, let alone go online at the same time," says Webster. "I hate the term but asynchronous play is so important. We're all time pressured, but we still want to play with our friends."Throughout the single-player campaign, every event has a 'speedwall', a personalised highscore table showing how your chums have done on this stage, and what cars they used; so social play is built into the fabric of the game. Brilliantly, there's even an Autolog Recommends option, which studies your playing style, your preferred vehicles and events, and the activities of your friends and suggests challenges for you to take part in. It's sort of like iTunes Genius, but without the constant nagging fear that one day it'll suggest you listen to Paolo Nutini.More traditionally, Hot Pursuit offers a vast range of simultaneous multiplayer modes, set throughout the enormous Seacrest county, which boasts over a hundred miles of tarmac roads in an area four times bigger than the Burnout Paradise map. There are pure races for up to eight drivers as well as Hot Pursuit challenges, in which participants chose to be either cops or racers. In the latter, both parties get a selection of four weapons, accessible via the d-pad. The cops can call in a helicopter to lay spike strips in front of the leading racers, or press down to drop spikes directly behind their car. Police drivers can also set up roadblocks to stall vehicles directly ahead of them, and there's an EMP (or 'electro-magnetic pulse'), an electronic battering ram that has to be carefully aimed at the vehicle in front for several seconds before the force is unleashed.Racers, meanwhile, get to drop spike strips and EMP blasts, but can also call on a turbo boost option and a jammer that blocks police communications. All of these weapons can be upgraded by ranking up through the game, making them progressively more powerful and accurate.The result is a frenzied and utterly exhilarating high-speed battle. Racers must compete for first place, but when someone passes the line, the rest have strict time limit in which to complete the event. Cops have to knock their targets into the barriers and bust them. The average session sees these beautiful vehicles swerving and somersaulting over the asphalt as bumpers grind and spiked traps snake across the wreckage-strewn highways. Road blocks provide terrifying bottlenecks; there's always a small gap to get through, but if you're neck and neck with another car, there's a furious millisecond hustle as the two of you compete for the line that isn't going to send you speeding head-on into a stationary patrol car.But it doesn't feel like a knockabout shootfest. Need For Speed is tactical; cops, who always start behind the racers in the Hot Pursuit events, must decide whether to pick off the back markers first, or zoom ahead for the leader. And during a race there is plenty of strategy in nitrous management (as in Burnout, slip-streaming, driving on the wrong side of the road and near-misses all feed your boost gauge), and the use of short cuts. As Webster explains, "The handling system is easy to play – people can drift around corners, they can have fun, but there's an enormous mount of depth in it too." He talks about those battles you get into with friends, shaving seconds from each other's event times: "Do you use shortcuts? Do you save your nitrous for the uphill sections where it's more effective?  Then it's about shallower drifts, and then getting shallower drifts while you're in oncoming traffic or on a short cut, because those accelerate your nitrous earning. So you get into those competitions and you start exploring the experience."As well as tarmac then, there are around 25 miles of shortcuts, plus open spaces for chase scenarios. It's not just the obvious dirt tracks; during an event named Tough Justice, I manage to swerve my tangerine-coloured McLaren F1 into a looming cave complex along a mountain road, thereby escaping a cop's EMP system. And on Lakeside Dream there's a thrilling forest section that forks into multiple routes, each snaking around enormous trees that'll split your Bugatti Veyron in two if you fail to commit in time.The handling engine has, according to Webster, been completely re-built from the Burnout days to reflect the move to real-life rather than fictitious models. However, the feel will be instantly familiar to Criterion fans: an immense sensation of speed and acceleration, matched with a forgiving generosity on corners that allows even skittish colts like the Dodge Viper SRT-10 to zoom through curves with something approaching abandon. Less skilled drivers will, of course, lose plenty of speed as tyres skid and the chassis grinds along barriers, but your car won't disintegrate at the first hint of impact, or go into a deathly tail spin with every misjudgement of oversteer.The locations are influenced by the sorts of astounding environments sourced by car manufacturers for advertising shoots. "Huge deserts, long straight roads, the Pacific Highway, rich rolling hills, snowy mountains – we've taken all those geographical cues and crammed them together in one location," says Webster. "Top Gear did a piece on the Transfagarasan Highway in Romania. They were looking for best driving roads in the world, and generally it's considered the Stelvio Pass. But this road, when viewed from the air, they said it was like all the greatest corners from the world's greatest race tracks. That's our inspiration."So throughout the playtest, we see vast desert highways with long, open curves; there are scorching straights through prairies, where the tracks are lined with rickety farm buildings and quick alternate routes into yards and fields. There are some stunning mountain rides where snow billows across the track and sheer cliff edges lurk behind the crash barriers. And there are urban runs, in which players choose between multiple snaking over- and underpasses then scorch through tunnels, the police lights strobing off the walls in blinding throbs of blurry blue and red.The crash physics are of course amazing, especially the multiple pile-ups in which million-dollar super cars obliterate in midair, sending chunks of metal spraying across the road. But it's the lighting that really impresses. "The engine uses both forward and deferred techniques," says technical director Richard Parr, referring to the different ways in which light effects are calculated on a 3D object (there's a useful explanation of both techniqueshere). "The cars and visual effects are forward rendered while the world is deferred. This combination makes it easier to get great looking paint and reflections on the cars, while also delivering very complex real-time lighting effects from the sun, moon, sky, headlights, cop lights and street lights".This hybrid lighting engine comes out of a fastidious approach to visual design. As Webster explains, "Our art director Henry LaBounta used to be at Industrial Light and Magic; he's Academy Award nominated for his work on Minority Report. He came in and said, 'we have to light the cars like we're shooting a commercial, light them beautifully because these are objects of beauty'. That's where the visual styling is cued from."The commitment to lighting entirely from the environment is a brave one. I played several night-time events and they'rereallydark, often with just sparsely placed street lamps and the tail lights of other vehicles to guide you. But this is all part of the plan. As Webster says, "We used to have a film-style light on the car – it looks like moonlight, but it follows you around. However, we wanted the game to feel dangerous, so we said, 'no, make it darker!' So yes, we've had to balance making it easier to drive with wanting to scare the shit out of you at night."Both the multiplayer and single-player modes share the same XP system, which further connects the two experiences. Competing in an event earns you bounty, which can be spent on new cars and upgrades. Interestingly, in Hot Pursuit mode you get points for your team's performance as well as your own individual skills, so it pays to co-operate with other racers/cops rather than blastingeveryoneout of your way.While discussing bounty, however, Webster points out that Criterion games have never been about having to grind though the game to get to the best cars. Subsequently, the third event in Hot Pursuit, named Vanishing Point, features the Roadster version of the Pagani Zonda Cinque, of which only five have been made: "that's a car on the box, available within 20 minutes," he says.And there is a genuine love for the cars here – a real understanding of their fetishistic appeal. "They are incredible," says Webster wistfully. "At Gamescom, we had a Lamborghini Reventon, it was number zero from the Lamborghini museum, and the detail… you could just look at it all day." So in the game, when you scroll through your available vehicles, a sultry female voice describes each model in purring tones reminiscent of those M&amp;S food adverts ("This isn't just an engine, it's a Porsche Boxster Spyder engine with 3436cc direct fuel injection and 320bhp…"). There are five classes in the game – sports, performance, super, exotic and hyper – but it's not like, once you've cracked open a Koenigsegg Agera, you'll never look back at a Lancer Evo X. Indeed, exotics with their super low clearance and fragile chassis' aren't great for dirt tracks, or for Hot Pursuit events in which one prang from an incoming Ford Shelby GT 500 cop car is going to have them folding into pieces like an expensive work of metallic origami.After three hours of turbo-charged lunacy it's time to leave Criterion's office and head home (hint: never drive an actual car after a Need For Speed event – you can't drift through roundabouts in a Skoda Fabia). Before I go, I ask Webster the obvious question about downloadable content. Burnout Paradise players were absolutely spoiled with post-release extras – does the development team already have solid plans for Hot Pursuit DLC, or will they wait to see what players do with the game?"It's more the latter," he says, determinedly. "If you're doing the former, you're just guessing. With Burnout Paradise we learned an awful lot of things, we used a lot of telemetry to see how people played the game. Originally, we'd had an idea of what we were going to do post-launch, but after the first weekend of play, we said, 'we're building the wrong stuff'. We were guessing, and I don't want to guess anymore."You know, marketing might come to us and say, 'we did this 25-person focus group and they thinkthisabout the game' and we're like, 'Well, we're looking at three and a half million people here, and they're doingthat.' You're dealing with fact, and that's a benefit for players. It's so fantastic to be able to change a game after you've finished it. That's going to affect a lot of what we do, not only for this release, but for where we will go in the future…"•Need For Speed: Hot Pursuitis set for release on PC, PS3, Wii and Xbox 360 on 19 November
Last Christmas, Modern Warfare 2 dominated the video game sales charts, making a tidy $1bn in revenue for Activision, and eclipsing every blockbusting movie Hollywood could chuck at us. This year, things look much more open. Sure, there's a new Call of Duty title on the horizon, but we'll also be enjoying Fifa 11, PES 2011, Medal of Honor, Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood and a whole host of family-friendly Wii titles.Bookmaker William Hill has made Fifa the odds-on favourite to claim the Christmas crown, whileGamesindustry.bizhas produced its own Top Five prediction for us to mull over. And it looks like this...1. Fifa 11  (Electronic Arts)William Hill Christmas number one odds: Even2. Call of Duty: Black Ops (Activision Blizzard)William Hill Christmas number one odds: 5-23. Wii Party  (Nintendo)William Hill Christmas number one odds:  5-14. Assassin's Creed:  Brotherhood (Ubisoft)William Hill Christmas number one odds: 6-15. Just Dance 2 (Ubisoft)William Hill Christmas number one odds: 8-1If I were a betting man (and the last timeIwas in the bookies it was to put a tenner on Kevin Keegan's horse Funfare Wane while he was still manager of City. It won...) I'd go for Call of Duty: Black Ops. Activision is spending millions on marketing, and there's been masses of interest in the series since that whole Infinity Ward "incident".What do you think?
Does HTML5 seem like this to you? Photo byianmyleson Flickr.Some rights reservedFor lunchtime reading (and cramming),Smashing Magazine has a very good introduction to HTML5- specifically, as it puts it, the facts and the myths.As the article says,"Everyone's talking about HTML5. it's perhaps the most hyped technology since people started putting rounded corners on everything and using unnecessary gradients. In fact, a lot of what people call HTML5 is actually just old-fashioned DHTML or AJAX. Mixed in with all the information is a lot of misinformation, so here, JavaScript expert Remy Sharp and Opera's Bruce Lawson look at some of the myths and sort the truth from the common misconceptions."The facts are useful (basically, a history of where HTML5 came from), and rather than shamefully ripping off their content we'll just give you the bullet points from the section they call...The Myths• "I Can't Use HTML5 Until 2012 (or 2022)"(We've heard this one a few times in the comments around here. Ain't so.)• "My Browser Supports HTML5, but Yours Doesn't"(Willy-waving doesn't make sense in the browser camp.)• HTML5 Legalizes Tag Soup(No, though it relaxes some things - no more searching for that missing /&gt;)• "I Need to Convert My XHTML Website to HTML5"(Nope, XHTML is a finished spec.)• HTML5 Kills XML(Not at all.)• HTML5 Will Kill Flash and Plug-InsActually, because this is perhaps one of the most contentious issues, we'll quote what they say almost in full:"Just as when CSS Web fonts weren't widely supported and Flash was used insIFRto fill the gaps, Flash also saves the day by making HTML5 video backwards-compatible. Because HTML5 is designed to be "fake-able" in older browsers, the mark-up between the video tags is ignored by browsers that understand HTML5 and is rendered by older browsers. Therefore, embedding fall-back video with Flash is possible using the old-school &lt;object&gt; or &lt;embed&gt; tags, as pioneered by Kroc Camen is his article "Video for Everybody!"."But not all of Flash's use cases are usurped by HTML5. There is no way to do digital rights management in HTML5; browsers such as Opera, Firefox and Chrome allow visitors to save video to their machines with a click of the context menu. If you need to prevent video from being saved, you'll need to use plug-ins."• HTML5 Is Bad for Accessibility(It doesn't have to be, though the &lt;canvas&gt; tag can be a problem; blame it on Apple.)• "An HTML5 Guru Will Hold My Hand as I Do It the First Time"(No, though there are alreadyboilerplatesthat you can use. Just rejoice.)Now you've got this far, you can go andread the article.There's also a video talk that Lawson gave at the 2009 OSCON conference on, yes, HTML5: the subject being "A pragmatic look at HTML 5 by experimenting with converting a real site to HTML 5 - how does it work? Where it useful and where is it annoying? How is support in current browsers?"
We're a little later than usual, but here's a question to ponder this afternoon as you're letting that indulgent Friday lunch go down...This week, that venerable music-themed burger chain The Hard Rock Cafe accepted the original Guitar Hero controller into its Hall of Fame. The plastic peripheral, signed by the narrator ofGuitar Hero: Warriors of Rock, Gene Simmons, will stand proudly beside items procured from The Beatles, Jimi Hendrix and other pop deities.Which got me thinking, what gaming memorabilia doyouproudly display in your own home or office? And what other items would you buy and mount on your walls, if only, a) you had long enough to track them down on eBay, and b) it wouldn't result in automatic termination of your current relationship?So if you have a little cuddly Sonic on your monitor, or you'd dearly love to have a tabletop Pac-Man cabinet in your living room instead of that Ikea coffee table, let us all know. I will admit to having a promo poster for the original Grand Theft Auto in our spare room/office, emblazoned with seventies-style illustrations of muscle cars and big-haired cops. I would also very much like a pristine Sega Rally cabinet, but I suspect it would be named in the subsequent divorce proceedings.Come on, own up to your own game-related interior design decisions. Because if it's good enough for the Hard Rock Cafe, it's good enough for all of us.
I am watching Mad Men in glorious HD. If I were out, I would be looking forward to coming home to it, knowing that despite the fact I forgot to check what was on TV this evening, I'd have it recorded anyway.No, I don't have a pricey Sky+ subscription and box. I just have bogstandard Freeview and the latest addition to the Humax stable, its Freeview+ HD PVR, the HDR-FOX T2. At around £329, it works out a lot cheaper than a Sky subscription, too.But the name (why Fox?!) is almost the only rubbish thing about this lovely piece of kit, a 500GB Freeview+ dual tuner recorder. Not only does it do what it says on the tin very well, it also has a number of other tricks at its disposal.At its most straightforward, it's a smart, intuitive video recorder that delivers what looks to my admittedly not very discerning eye and my 32in Panasonic telly very good indeed HD pictures and perfectly acceptable SD pictures.Round the back are lots of connectors: HDMI, Scart, composite video, analogue audio and optical audio, which means the box can also output Dolby Digital Pulse Audio Output should have you have a full-fat sound system for your telly. Additionally it's got two USB ports and an Ethernet port – no Wi-Fi, mind.Lookswise, it's biggish – the same size as its predecessor, the PVR 9200T – and black, with a big circular on-off button that glows blue when it's on and orange when it's recording, plus a display panel.If you've used any of Humax's previous products, you'll hit the ground running with this. The user interface is smart and minimalist, with the usual very good grid-layout 14-day EPG that you can search. Set-up is pretty straightforward – plug it in and it will scan and load Freeview TV and radio channels.Once it's on, you can do all the clever stuff you'd expect – pause and rewind live TV, watch one show while recording a second or record two shows while watching a third from the hard drive.The only thing I dislike about it is the management of channel lists. Clearly you're not going to want to flick through all the Freeview channels, many of which are dross, but it's not easy to set up a list of your favourites. That's because there are a couple of menu items in different places in the options, and a button on the remote, that claim to be list management tools, but I could only create and manage my favourites list by going via the Settings option. The otherwise good user manual isn't much help here, either.Plugged into a router or a wireless bridge, the box's network setup is fast and easy. For now it's just used for streaming content from your network to your telly, but there's a button on the remote marked TV Portal which hints at things to come – this box will be able to deliver on-demand and catch-up content, including Sky's online service.The remote is smaller and less crowded with buttons than that of its standard-def predecessor, though if you're used to that, you will have to get used to a few changes. There's no mute button on this remote, for example, as there was on the remote for the PVR-9200T, and the buttons to skip through recordings are rather small.Still, those are niggles about what is otherwise the box I've been waiting for. And if you don't want to fork out for a Sky+ or Virgin subscription but do want the functionality of their boxes, it might well be the box you've been waiting for too.Pros:Easy set-up; elegant UI; mostly very easy to use; Dolby Digital output.Cons:Those channel lists; it would be nice if it had Wi-Fi; some of the buttons on the remote are a bit fiddly.Humax UK
I found it, Mr Zuckerberg! Photo bySir Mildred Pierceon Flickr.Some rights reservedEver been on the phone to IT support and they told you to turn it off and then on again, and that sorts it out?Facebook last night had that sort of problem. So they turned the site off and on again. And it fixed their problem. Literally.As Robert Johnson, its director of software engineering, explained in aslightly shamefaced blogpost, the site was offline for about two-and-a-half hours – its worst outage in four years – due to some technical changes that Facebook had made.It wasn't only the site itself which went belly-up; the Like buttons (which connect back to Facebook) vanished on 350,000 sites too, and the API which powers its OpenGraph system had serious problems.The logistics of running a vast network like Facebook mean that you don't stick all your servers in a single place, of course. Facebook runs a big caching operation, so that lots of servers replicate its content. The cache gets updated periodically; it sits on a network called tfbnw.net (for "the Facebook network": you can see it here in thistraceroute to Facebook, which shows what the intermediate networks are between one site and Facebook), which in effect sits like a ring around the "central" Facebook site.Sometimes, things go wrong in the cache as values go out of date; but that's no problem, usually, because you can overwrite them with correct values from the centre. At least, you would like to.Here's how Johnson explained it:"The key flaw that caused this outage to be so severe was an unfortunate handling of an error condition. An automated system for verifying configuration values ended up causing much more damage than it fixed."The intent of the automated system is to check for configuration values that are invalid in the cache and replace them with updated values from the persistent store. This works well for a transient problem with the cache, but it doesn't work when the persistent store is invalid."In other words: something went wrong inside the circle. And that wrong value got passed out to all the fbnw.net servers that would normally serve up Facebook pages.Back to Johnson:"Today we made a change to the persistent copy of a configuration value that was interpreted as invalid. This meant that every single client saw the invalid value and attempted to fix it. Because the fix involves making a query to a cluster of databases, that cluster was quickly overwhelmed by hundreds of thousands of queries a second."Basically, tfbnw.net's servers started querying the central system all at once, which overwhelmed it."To make matters worse, every time a client got an error attempting to query one of the databases it interpreted it as an invalid value, and deleted the corresponding cache key. This meant that even after the original problem had been fixed, the stream of queries continued. As long as the databases failed to service some of the requests, they were causing even more requests to themselves. We had entered a feedback loop that didn't allow the databases to recover."And now we come to the "oh my god, we're really going to have to do that?" moment:"The way to stop the feedback cycle was quite painful – we had to stop all traffic to this database cluster, which meant turning off the site. Once the databases had recovered and the root cause had been fixed, we slowly allowed more people back onto the site."And the result?"This got the site back up and running today, and for now we've turned off the system that attempts to correct configuration values. We're exploring new designs for this configuration system following design patterns of other systems at Facebook that deal more gracefully with feedback loops and transient spikes."That means that there may be some times over the next few days when you won't be able to reach Facebook in particular places, or that unusual things will happen."We apologize again for the site outage, and we want you to know that we take the performance and reliability of Facebook very seriously."Well, of course: if the site's down, it can't sell ads, and if it can't sell ads, how is Mark Zuckerberg going to justifyhis enormous Forbes valuation?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
The Dell Inspiron Duo, not in deckchair mode. Photo bychang_senon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFacebook's Zuckerberg feels the pain of mobile app development &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKJack Schofield on why Facebook would never, ever want to try to add to the desperate confusion of smartphone OSs.Want Nine Minutes Of The Galaxy Tab On Video? You're In Luck! &gt;&gt; Unofficial T-Mobile Blog - News, Videos, Articles and moreCompare and contrast with the HP Windows 7 leak - or is it a fake? - of Thursday.Twitter to Release a Real-time Analytics Solution This Year &gt;&gt; Mashable"Twitter plans to launch a free analytics dashboard that will help its users – especially businesses – understand how others are interacting with their tweets."Member of Twitter's business development team Ross Hoffman has revealed at the Sports Marketing Summit that Twitter plans to launch the dashboard in the last quarter of 2010. He was speaking in the context of sports, but there's no reason to believe the tool won't be available to other users, too."Pickles blazes at shortcomings in fire and rescue systems &gt;&gt; UKAuthority.com"Vital equipment used to give firefighters details of emergency calls cannot be installed, because of the risk it will overheat and become a fire risk, a Commons select committee heard last week. Meanwhile, systems designed to get fire engines to their destinations quickly are fitted with out-of-date maps which cannot be updated. Taxpayers are paying out around £100,000 a month in rent for each of the empty regional control centres, dotted around England."Meet the Reality Distortion Field &gt;&gt; DilbertScott Adams tells it like it is.Digg Redesign Tanks: Traffic Down 26% &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebDell Inspiron Duo transforming tablet: Flippin' 'eck &gt;&gt; CNET UKIt's a netbook! It's a tablet! It's a deckchair! It's a 10-inch machine from Dell which wants to straddle both categories but ends up looking like neither. Those hinges look like a manufacturing disaster waiting to happen.10-inch Galaxy Tab promised for 2011 by Samsung Ireland General Manager &gt;&gt; EngadgetYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Zombies still hold a powerful grip over developers and players alike, with the shuffling brain-eaters generating a mass of excellent, high-selling games year in, year out.Dead Rising 2 is the latest offering, set in a post-outbreak world where humanity has contained the globe's undead populace. It offers a neat parody on the expensive yet life-saving drugs of today, with a rare infection-controlling drug, Zombrex, that unburdens the bitten and holds a gruesome grip on society.Of course, the oppressed zombie hordes inevitably escape their confines, leaving protagonist Chuck to secure a regular dose of the drug for his daughter while unravelling a conspiracy that explains the looming apocalypse.The relentlessly violent gameplay focuses largely on using improvised weapons to clear a path through waves of zombies, under the watchful eye of the clock. With the crowds of undead always inches away, the action is brilliantly tense and often exhausting.What could seem shallow is in fact a very well refined strategic action game, and mastering crowd manipulation becomes hugely rewarding. Dead Rising 2's knack for capturing the eerie spirit of Americana also stands out, giving Capcom's effort a cinematic polish to go with the hugely enjoyable zombie massacre.
Facebook vanished from the internet for lots of people on Thursday evening - and while it wasn't quite as bad as theinternet imploding, it did mean that Like buttons disappeared from websites all over the web.The problem wasn't clear at first; it seems to have been problems with the network; while a DNS lookup worked, the connection failed (in my case anyway) just short of the site itself, at tfbnw.net - Facebook's outlying network.Trying to reach it via its own IP address (for my search, tohttp://69.63.189.11) also failed, which also puts the flaw at the outlying network. In case you're wondering, Facebook's domain registration is all tickety-boo,safe until 2020.Facebook put out a statement saying that"We're currently experiencing some site issues causing Facebook to be slow or unavailable for some users.  We are working to resolve this issue as quickly as possible."The downtime happened at the end of the working day in New York, and just after lunch in California. Productivity in those areas was not believed to be affected negatively.The jokes of course came thick and fast: "Can Facebook stay down? Too much to ask?"queriedMo McRoberts on Twitter.Also that Mark Zuckerberg was going to keep it down until everyone promises not to go and see The Social Network, the fictionalised film about how Facebook got started.My own contribution is that Status Quo can rewrite their famous song and say it's about Facebook: "Down down, DNS down... down down, DNS down.."I thank you. Here all week. Try the chicken.
He's a geeky Harvard dropout with a penchant for hooded sweatshirts who cheerfully admits he is "awkward". He once described his own customers as "dumb fucks". Yet the rise of 26-year-old Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg appears to be unstoppable. Yesterday it was revealed that his wealth has tripled in a year, making him richer than the mighty Rupert Murdoch and even Apple's Steve Jobs.A ranking of America's wealthiest individuals by Forbes magazine estimates Zuckerberg's current fortune at $6.9bn, up by $4.9bn in a year. He's still only 35th in the rankings, but he's rising up the list faster than anyone else. And in a sign that the young social networking tycoon is attempting to take control of his rocketing public profile – and perhaps even the responsibility that comes with it – Zuckerberg will appear on Oprah today to announce a $100m personal gift to urban schools in the city of Newark.A dentist's son who grew up in New York's commuter belt, Zuckerberg is the man who introduced the world to the charms of online poking, friend requests and writing on people's virtual "walls". But like other technology pioneers such as Bill Gates – who remains the richest person in America – he is far from universally popular, with his success dogged by accusations of disloyalty and ruthlessness.Facebook, which was born in a Harvard dorm just six years ago and is now valued at $23bn, has been plagued by controversy over its approach towards members' privacy. Zuckerberg's personal reputation, which has already taken some knocks, is receiving a fresh hammering from a newly released Hollywood film, The Social Network. The film, by screenwriter Aaron Sorkin, best known for the television drama The West Wing, portrays the Facebook founder as an insecure social climber who brutally cuts loose friends who collaborated in the venture's early days."Despite his youth, he's smart and determined and he's willing to do what's necessary – including replacing some of his original team, who were college friends," says Ray Valdes, a technology analyst at Gartner Research in California. Valdes says Facebook's willingness to take unpopular risks has pushed its rise to online dominance. With 500 million active users worldwide, it has leapfrogged rivals such as MySpace, owned by Murdoch's News Corporation, to become by far the planet's biggest social networking site."They had a single-minded vision of the social web that they pursued," says Valdes. "They were willing to take risks – including risks with their own users – by introducing new aspects to the Facebook experience that users were sometimes not ready for."Known as Zuck to his friends, Zuckerberg has until now kept a low profile. He drives a black Honda Acura, and lives in a rented house in Silicon Valley with his college sweetheart, Priscilla Chan. His Facebook page gives an indication of his personal tastes – it reveals he is a fan of Lady Gaga, Star Wars, Barack Obama, Bill Gates and a page called "I stay longer in the shower because the water is so warm".His harsher side – and that famous quote about his customers – emerged recently in a leaked exchange of instant messages from Facebook's early days in which he boasted to a friend that he had over 4,000 email addresses, pictures and other bits of personal information about members, and admitted he didn't know why people had submitted so much. "They 'trust me'," he wrote, adding: "Dumb fucks."In the new film, which stars actor Jesse Eisenberg and Justin Timberlake, there is a party scene in which women offer lines of cocaine off their breasts. To put that in context, the film draws heavily on claims from disillusioned Harvard peers who sued Zuckerberg for stealing the original concept of Facebook. Nonetheless, it appears to have stung the entrepreneur into a charm offensive. This week's pledge to Newark's cash-strapped education system, to be delivered in Facebook shares, is Zuckerberg's first step into large-scale public philanthropy.In a rare interview in the New Yorker this week, Zuckerberg expressed regret for youthful missteps, including his boastfully arrogant instant messages, and insisted he had since grown up: "If you're going to go on to build a service that is influential and that a lot of people rely on, you need to be mature, right?"Explaining the ultimate goal behind Facebook, Zuckerberg said he wanted to move beyond search engines such as Google by mapping real-world social information, rather than web content, to tap into "hardwired" curiosity about the people surrounding us: "Most of the information that we care about is things that are in our heads, right? And that's not out there to be indexed, right?"
John Nelder, who has died aged 85, developed several fundamental approaches to data analysis that have been incorporated into key statistical software systems. Scientists in disciplines as diverse as genetics and geology, physics and pharmacology, chemistry and climatology, economics and evolutionary biology, make constant use of approaches based on his work.John's first post, from 1949 to 1968, was at the National Vegetable Research Station at Wellesbourne, Warwickshire. There he built on the work of the statistician and evolutionary biologist Ronald Fisher, who had shown how the variation observed in yields and other measurements from agricultural experiments could be attributed to the effects of treatments such as fertilisers, and compared to random variation by using a technique that he called analysis of variance (Anova).In complex experiments, it was not always easy to see how Anova should be applied. The analysis might need to allow for several types of random variation: there might be fertility trends up and down as well as across a field, or the experiment might have been run at several different times or locations. Types and amounts of fertiliser, types of crop and plot sizes might also vary.So scientists relied on a repertoire of standard experimental designs, each with its own recipe for analysis. In two Royal Society papers published in 1965, John developed a general theory covering a wide class of designs, which suggested that they could all be analysed by a single algorithm, or computational method. The implication was that computer code could be written that would allow experimental data to be analysed according to key features. John then visited Adelaide, where he worked with Graham Wilkinson. As a result of their collaboration, the algorithm became an important part of a statistical program that laid the foundations for a system now known as GenStat for Windows.In another 1965 paper, written with Roger Mead, John described a new approach to function optimisation, such as which settings of a combustion engine would minimise carbon monoxide output. The resulting Nelder-Mead simplex algorithm has become a standard tool for scientists in every discipline. In 1968, John became head of statistics at the Rothamsted agricultural research station, at Harpenden, Hertfordshire, where he developed GenStat as a general-purpose system providing a full suite of statistical facilities. John soon also began a collaboration with Robert Wedderburn, who died in 1975 at the age of 28.Before their work, statisticians had had difficulty in analysing data where the random variation did not come from the familiar – bell-shaped – normal distribution. So data sets that consisted, for example, of counts of insect pests on plots treated in various ways received approximate analyses that could lead to erroneous conclusions. A 1972 paper by Nelder and Wedderburn showed how data from several popular non-normal distributions could be regarded as special cases of a general class that they called generalised linear models (GLMs). This theory again led to a single, powerful algorithm, which provided the basis for a further statistical package, GLIM, before being incorporated into GenStat and many other packages.John was born at Brushford, on the edge of Exmoor. His father, grandfather and great-grandfather kept the Carnarvon Arms, where he grew up. Explorations of the nearby Exe and Barle rivers led to a lifelong love of nature. He met his future wife, Mary, whom he married in 1955, through birdwatching.Educated at Blundell's school, in Tiverton, he went to Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge, where he studied maths. This was interrupted by second world war service, much of it in South Africa, as a navigator for the RAF. John graduated in 1948, and took the diploma in mathematical statistics. His enthusiasm for statistics carried over into his hobby of ornithology. He was proud of his paper in British Birds in 1962, pointing to the implausible number of rare bird sightings around Hastings in the early 1900s.John retired from Rothamsted aged 60, but his statistical output continued undiminished. For the next 25 years his striking, tall and moustached figure was a familiar sight at Harpenden station, waiting to board the train to London and Imperial College, where he had a visiting professorship. He began a research partnership there with the Korean statistician Youngjo Lee and they extended the work on GLMs to include the analysis of more complex data sets, in which random variation was generated from several different sources. John was elected a fellow of the Royal Society in 1981, and won the Guy medal in silver and gold of the Royal Statistical Society, which he served as president (1985-86).The annual musical matinees at his home, Cumberland Cottage, with entertainment provided by John, a brilliant pianist, and food by Mary, were a joy. He is survived by Mary and their children, Jan and Rosalind.• John Ashworth Nelder, statistician, born 8 October 1924; died 7 August 2010
It's HP's much-rumoured slate computer - and itruns Windows 7!Let joy be unconfined! Or something.Actually, if you watch the video, you quickly reach one of two conclusions:1) this is a terrible fake2) this is a terrible real product that is going to be landfill within months of going on sale.The person narrating the video says the tablet (whose size isn't specified, but it looks like 7") has a prominent HP logo, rubbery texture, and is lighter than the iPad--At which point we say,whoa there. Lighter than the iPad means less battery than the iPad, which almost certainly means less battery life than the iPad. OK, carry on.)&bull; ..there's an SD card on the side, keyboard button for the onscreen keyboard to come up--Whoa there. You have to press a button every time you need a virtual keyboard? That's one step from madness. Possibly one step beyond.&bull; ..a microphone, volume buttons, USB port, home key, Ctrl-Alt-Del key--Whoa there. A force-reboot key? What's wrong with the power button?&bull; ..power button which also doubles as a lock key. It's running Windows 7, has a headphone slot, speakers in the bottom. There's a camera on the front too.Then the video descends into farce. Or possibly further into farce. "Turn it on.." he says.Start counting: it takes 32 seconds from him pressing that button to the screen being ready for use. Is HP or Microsoft seriously expecting people to wait half a minute every time they want to turn their tablet on before it can be used? We refer you to the instant-on that people expect and get from their phones and, well, iPads.This doesn't stop our narrator burbling that the tablet is "very responsive, very quick". It sure doesn't look it. He goes online and brings up a browser: his attempts to make it scroll are hilarious, and he seems to open a new tabby accident. This is browsing as we don't want to know it. Then he brings up the onscreen keyboard (pressing the button, naturally): it takes up more than half the screen.Going back a page on the browser is a swipe action: which I can't help but notice was laggy. "Pretty light, very fast," burbles our narrator, wrongly.As John Grubercomments, "If this is real, and HP releases this thing, it's time to sell your HP stock."Engadget thinksthough that "from everything we know about the tablet we're pretty sure this is the real deal".Yet it also looks rather like something that HP did show off - see below - which is notably short on detail (it never shows how you'd activate the onscreen keyboard, or what that would look like). That opens the awful possibility that this is a real product.In which case one can only hope that wiser heads prevail before this hits the market. Seriously, nobody deserves a tablet experience this bad.
One of the jewels in the PS3 Christmas crown has been removed. LittleBigPlanet 2, the sequel to Media Molecule's critically revered platformer will now be released in Janaury. While the original game allowed players to design their own levels, the follow-up gives users the tools to create complete games, from shooters to RPGs.A noticeon the Media Molecule website explains:LittleBigPlanet 2 is a crazy dream, a dream to allow players to make whatever kind of game they want, but also to play though a great adventure of drama and excitement, power-ups, and cinematics.  But like all of the most ambitious ideas, it can be a considerable challenge to turn these dreams in to fun games. We've all been working like powered-up space ninjas and we're almost there, but because we love what we've made, and we love our little sack-friends, and most of all we love all our fans out there, we couldn't let you all get together until we knew we were giving you the best experience imaginable.  Which is why we've taken the hard decision to delay the worldwide release of LittleBigPlanet 2, originally slated for later this year to January 2011However, there was a silver-lining on the delay cloud. The note also promises that, "we are going to find a way to give more of you a taste of LBP2 prior to launch." Wether that means the game will be playable at some kind of event, or whether there will be a PSN demo remains to be seen.
The video game industry has really only existed for 40 years, yet attempting to catalogue the entire chronology into one book seems like the stuff of madness. The hundreds of gaming platforms; the complex, interconnected histories of the major developers and publishers; the esoteric minutiae of technological evolution – it's a Herculean task just tohintat the scope and size of this billion dollar behemoth.Yet authors have tried. Steven L. Kent's mammoth Ultimate History of Video Games is perhaps the standard bearer, a dogged, US-centric traipse through gaming lore. Leonard Herman's Phoenix: The Fall and Rise of Videogames is another classic, extremely dry, but filled with accurate detail on the early days of the console wars.Replay: The History of Video Games by games journalist Tristan Donovan is a much more up-to-date and thoughtfully written opus. Beginning with the switching on of the first programmable computer in 1946 and closing with the rise of downloadable indie games, this engrossing work manages to touch on every vital facet of the industry, from the formative battles between Atari and Mattel, through the rise of the home computer to the emergence of the Japanese home console empire.But what Donovan is great at is catching the quiet little moments of videogame history, hidden beneath the broad sweep of technological change. He has great anecdotes about the first time Will Wright showed off his plans for The Sims (called Dollhouse at the time) to a bunch of disbelieving execs; and about the lawlessness of Ultima Online, where the early online RPG's creator Richard Garriott found himself intervening in virtual muggings. There's a wide range of quotes and personal stories, too, from veteran Atari employees to cult stars of the French gaming market to the people behind modern edifices like Fallout 3 and Bioshock.The book is also wider in its remit than most others. Donovan has space for the rise of the British computing scene, with Clive Sinclair given the space he deserves. It also looks at the South Korean online gaming phenonemon, and the birth of the MUD, an element criminally overlooked in many other general game histories.If there are any faults, it's that Donovan doesn't adequately address the emerging genres – mobile, casual and social gaming. There's also little on gaming's dead-ends; virtual reality, Sega's many aborted consoles, the disappearance of the Matsushita M2 platform. But of course, in less than 400 pages, you need to concentrate on what went right rather than what went horribly wrong.So yes, Replay is a wonderfully thorough and entertaining history, casting its net wide, but rarely failing to capture the essence of a particular era. A rather impressive achievement.Replay: The History of Video Games is published by Yellow Ant and is priced £12.99
TheForbes 400 list of US-based billionairesis a hefty list of even more hefty fortunes; many are predicated on share prices, and in some cases (we're looking at you, Mark Zuckerberg) on the values of shares which can't even be openly traded.But even while one marvels at the sheer wealth represented there (if you believe the Forbes valuation, then those 400 people are worth $1.37 trillion - that's $1,370bn - compared to a US GDP of $14.59trn in 2008. That's more than any country in Africa except South Africa. (Image from WolframAlpha.com, viathis query.)World GDP visualised. Source: wolframalpha.comA few facts do emerge: Bill Gates is the only person whose wealth is the same as his age (54); for every other person, their age is greater than their wealth. If you rank them by the ratio of their age to their wealth, Gates is still top (he's 1.0, obviously), followed by Warren Buffet (0.56) aged 80, Walmart heir Christy Walton (aged 55, $24bn), then Larry Ellison of Oracle (66, $27bn, 0.41), followed by Sergey Brin and Larry Page, both 37, both $15bn, both 0.405. Zuckerberg comes 14th on such a list, just behind Jeff Bezos.Another interesting fact that emerges: hedge funds are responsible for the largest slice of wealth, at $103.2bn; then it's Walmart ($89.6bn). After that is Microsoft ($67.1bn plus some of Paul Allen's $12.7bn - part of which comes from his own investments); Google manages $35.5bn, Oracle $27bn, Dell $14bn, Amazon $12.6bn, SAS Institute $10.3bn, Facebook $9.4bn, Apple/Pixar $6.1bn, Intel $3.5bn - just ahead of the $3.2bn of Star Wars (why hello Mr Lucas!) - Yahoo $2.2bn. There's a lot to be learnt from the information.Can you do something with this data?FlickrPlease post your visualisations and mash-ups on ourFlickr groupor mail us atdatastore@guardian.co.uk•Get the A-Z of data•More at the Datastore directory•Follow us on TwitterYou candownload the entire table.Forbes 400 US richestNameNet worth ($bn)agelivessourceBill Gates5454Medina, WAMicrosoftWarren Buffett4580Omaha, NEBerkshire HathawayLarry Ellison2766Woodside, CAOracleChristy Walton2455Jackson, WYWalmartCharles Koch21.574Wichita, KSmanufacturing, energyDavid Koch21.570New York, NYmanufacturing, energyJim Walton20.162Bentonville, ARWalmartAlice Walton2061Fort Worth, TXWalmartS. Robson Walton19.766Bentonville, ARWalmartMichael Bloomberg1868New York, NYBloombergLarry Page1537Palo Alto, CAGoogleSergey Brin1537San Francisco, CAGoogleSheldon Adelson14.777Las Vegas, NVcasinos, hotelsGeorge Soros14.280Westchester, NYhedge fundsMichael Dell1445Austin, TXDellSteve Ballmer13.154Seattle, WAMicrosoftPaul Allen12.757Mercer Island, WAMicrosoft, investmentsJeff Bezos12.646Seattle, WAAmazonAnne Cox Chambers12.590Atlanta, GACox EnterprisesJohn Paulson12.454New York, NYhedge fundsDonald Bren1278Newport Beach, CAreal estateAbigail Johnson11.348Boston, MAFidelityPhil Knight11.172Beaverton, ORNikeCarl Icahn1174New York, NYleveraged buyoutsRon Perelman1167New York, NYleveraged buyoutsForrest Mars1079Big Horn, WYcandy, pet foodJohn Mars1074Jackson, WYcandy, pet foodJacqueline Mars1071The Plains, VAcandy, pet foodGeorge Kaiser9.468Tulsa, OKoil & gas, bankingJames Simons8.772East Setauket, NYhedge fundsLen Blavatnik7.553LondonAccess IndustriesSteve Cohen7.354Greenwich, CThedge fundsEdward Johnson7.180Boston, MAFidelityPhilip Anschutz770Denver, COInvestmentsMark Zuckerberg6.926Palo Alto, CAFacebookJames Goodnight6.967Cary, NCSAS InstituteJack Taylor & family6.588St. Louis, MOEnterprise Rent-A-CarRupert Murdoch6.279New York, NYNews CorpJim Kennedy6.262Atlanta, GACox EnterprisesBlair Parry-Okeden6.259SconeCox EnterprisesSamuel Newhouse6.282New York, NYpublishingSteve Jobs6.155Palo Alto, CAApple, PixarAndrew Beal657Dallas, TXBeal Bank, real estateEli Broad5.877Los Angeles, CAInvestmentsHarold Hamm5.864Oklahoma City, OKContinental ResourcesPatrick Soon-Shiong5.658Los Angeles, CAgeneric drugsPierre Omidyar5.543Honolulu, HIEbayEric Schmidt5.4555Atherton, CAGoogleDonald Newhouse5.480Somerset County, NJpublishingCharles Butt5.372San Antonio, TXsupermarketsJohn Menard5.270Eau Claire, WIRetailRichard Kinder5.265Houston, TXpipelinesCharles Ergen5.257Denver, COEchoStarDavid Geffen5.167Malibu, CAmovies, musicHarold Simmons579Dallas, TXInvestmentsRay Dalio561Greenwich, CThedge fundsFrederik G.H. Meijer4.990Grand Rapids, MIsupermarketsIra Rennert4.576New York, NYInvestmentsDennis Washington4.576Missoula, MTconstruction, miningRalph Lauren4.470New York, NYfashionSam Zell4.469Chicago, ILreal estate, private equityRichard DeVos4.384Ada, MIAlticorRichard LeFrak & Family4.365New York, NYreal estateDavid Tepper4.353Milburn, NJhedge fundsRay Lee Hunt4.367Dallas, TXOil, real estateLeonard Lauder4.277New York, NYEstee LauderLester Crown & family4.285Wilmette, ILInvestmentsJohn Paul DeJoria4.266Austin, TXhair products, tequilaRobert Rowling4.157Dallas, TXInvestmentsBruce Kovner4.165New York, NYhedge fundsStephen Schwarzman4.163New York, NYInvestmentsMicky Arison4.161Bal Harbour, FLCarnival CruisesRoger Wang4.161Nanjing,RetailRobert Bass462Fort Worth, TXoil, investmentsDirk Ziff446New York, NYhedge fundsRobert Ziff444New York, NYhedge fundsDaniel Ziff438New York, NYhedge fundsCharles Johnson477San Mateo, CAFranklin ResourcesMarion MacMillan Pictet3.877HamiltonCargill Inc.Whitney MacMillan3.881Minneapolis, MNCargill Inc.Cargill MacMillan3.883Indian Springs, CACargill Inc.Pauline MacMillan Keinath3.876St. Louis, MOCargill Inc.Charles Schwab3.773Atherton, CAdiscount stock brokerageRupert Johnson3.769San Mateo, CAFranklin ResourcesRay Dolby3.677San Francisco, CADolby LaboratoriesThomas Frist3.672Nashville, TNHCA HealthcareVictor Fung & family3.5564Hong KongdistributionLeonard Stern3.572New York, NYreal estateGordon Moore3.581Woodside, CAIntelHenry Kravis3.466New York, NYleveraged buyoutsWilliam Koch3.470Palm Beach, FLoil, investmentsHenry Ross Perot Sr3.480Dallas, TXcomputer services, real estateHaim Saban3.465Beverly Hills, CAtelevisionJohn Sall3.462Cary, NCSAS InstituteJohn Sobrato & family3.371Atherton, CAreal estateJohn Arnold3.336Houston, TXhedge fundsGeorge Lucas3.2566Marin County, CAStar WarsAnn Walton Kroenke3.261Columbia, MOWalmartDaniel Och3.249New York, NYhedge fundsRon Burkle3.257Londonsupermarkets, investmentsScott Duncan3.127Houston, TXpipelinesStephen Ross3.170New York, NYreal estateGeorge Roberts3.167San Francisco, CAleveraged buyoutsEdward Lampert3.148Greenwich, CTInvestmentsWilliam Cook3.179Bloomington, INmedical devicesRobert Holding3.183Sun Valley, IDoil, resortsRanda Williams3.149Houston, TXpipelinesDannine Avara3.146Houston, TXpipelinesMilane Frantz3.141Houston, TXpipelinesPaul Tudor Jones356Greenwich, CThedge fundsTerrence Pegula359Boca Raton, FLEast ResourcesTrevor Rees-Jones359Dallas, TXoil & gasSteven Spielberg363Pacific Palisades, CAmoviesBruce Halle380Paradise Valley, AZDiscount TireJames Jannard361San Juan Islands, WAOakley, Red DigitalLeon Black359New York, NYprivate equityTed Lerner384Washington, DCreal estateJohn Malone369Parker, COcable televisionRiley Bechtel2.958San Francisco, CAengineering, constructionStanley Druckenmiller2.957Pittsburgh, PAhedge fundsLeslie Wexner2.973New Albany, OHLimited BrandsKirk Kerkorian2.993Los Angeles, CAinvestments, casinosStephen Bechtel2.985San Francisco, CAengineering, constructionJoan Tisch2.884New York, NYLoewsSumner Redstone2.887Beverly Hills, CAViacomBarbara Piasecka Johnson2.873Monte CarloJohnson & JohnsonRonald Lauder2.866New York, NYEstee LauderPhilip Falcone2.847New York, NYhedge fundsPeter Kellogg2.868Short Hills, NJInvestmentsPatrick McGovern2.773Hollis, NHIDGDavid Murdock2.787Los Angeles, CADole, real estateStanley Kroenke2.763Columbia, MOsports, real estateOprah Winfrey2.756Chicago, ILtelevisionSteven Udvar-Hazy2.764Beverly Hills, CAInternational Lease FinanceTimothy Headington2.6560Dallas, TXoil & gas, investmentsDavid Green2.668Oklahoma City, OKHobby LobbyJames Leprino2.672Denver, COcheeseNancy Walton Laurie2.659Henderson, NVWalmartDavid Sun2.658Orange County, CAcomputer memoryEdgar Bronfman Sr2.681New York, NYSeagram's liquorMitchell Rales2.654Washington, DCDanaher CorpJohn Tu2.668Los Angeles, CAcomputer memoryMalcolm Glazer & family2.682Palm Beach, FLsports teams, real estateCharles Dolan2.583Oyster Bay, NYCablevision SystemsWarren Stephens2.553Little Rock, ARStephens Inc.Richard Schulze2.569Edina, MNBest BuyIgor Olenicoff2.568Lighthouse Point, FLreal estateDonald Schneider2.574Green Bay, WItruckingArchie Aldis Emmerson2.581Redding, CAtimberland, lumber millsMark Cuban2.552Dallas, TXBroadcast.comMary Alice Dorrance Malone2.560Coatesville, PACampbell SoupWilliam Hilton2.582Los Angeles, CAhotels, casinosJohn Anderson2.493Bel Air, CAInvestmentsDavid Rockefeller2.495New York, NYStandard Oil, bankingTy Warner2.466Chicago, ILBeanie BabiesDonald Trump2.464New York, NYreal estateMartha Ingram & family2.475Nashville, TNIngram IndustriesTom Gores2.446Beverly Hills, CAprivate equityKen Griffin2.341Chicago, ILhedge fundsRichard Rainwater2.366Fort Worth, TXreal estate, energy, insuranceDoris Fisher2.379San Francisco, CAGapSteven Rales2.359Washington, DCDanaher CorpRodney Lewis2.2556San Antonio, TXNatural gasNicolas Berggruen2.249New York, NYInvestmentsJulian Robertson2.278New York, NYhedge fundsA. Jerrold Perenchio2.279Bel Air, CAUnivisionDavid Shaw2.259New York, NYhedge fundsGlen Taylor2.269Mankato, MNprintingJack Dangermond2.265Redlands, CAmapping softwareRonda Stryker2.156Portage, MIStryker Corp.Bill Gross2.166Laguna Beach, CABondsWilliam Randolph Hearst III2.161San Francisco, CAHearst CorpRobert Friedland2.160SingaporeMiningEdward Roski2.171Los Angeles, CAreal estateMichael Milken2.164Los Angeles, CAInvestmentsStewart Rahr2.164New York, NYKinrayDiane Hendricks2.163Afton, WIABC SupplyJeremy Jacobs2.170East Aurora, NYsports concessionsHenry Hillman2.191Pittsburgh, PAInvestmentsWilliam Wrigley2.146Lake Forest, ILchewing gumH. Wayne Huizenga2.172Fort Lauderdale, FLInvestmentsHerbert Kohler & family271Kohler, WIplumbing fixturesLee Bass254Fort Worth, TXoil, investmentsGeorge Mitchell291The Woodlands, TXMitchell EnergySid Bass267Fort Worth, TXoil, investmentsGordon Getty276San Francisco, CAGetty OilLynn Schusterman271Tulsa, OKoil & gas, investmentsAlfred Taubman286Bloomfield Hills, MIreal estatePhillip Ruffin275Las Vegas, NVcasinos, real estateDavid Rubenstein261Bethesda, MDleveraged buyoutsPhillip Frost273Miami, FLpharmaceuticalsWilliam Conway261McLean, VAleveraged buyoutsDaniel D'Aniello264Vienna, VAleveraged buyoutsRobert Rich269Islamorada, FLRich Products CorporationPeter Peterson284New York, NYBlackstone GroupMortimer Zuckerman273New York, NYreal estate, mediaH. Fisk Johnson252Racine, WISC Johnson & SonsS. Curtis Johnson255Racine, WISC Johnson & SonsWinnie Johnson-Marquart251Virginia Beach, VASC Johnson & SonsHelen Johnson-Leipold253Racine, WISC Johnson & SonsImogene Powers Johnson280Racine, WISC Johnson & SonsBennett Dorrance264Paradise Valley, AZCampbell SoupJerry Jones267Dallas, TXDallas CowboysAmos Hostetter273Boston, MAcable televisionRobert E Turner1.971Lamont, FLcable televisionJames Cargill1.961Birchwood, WICargill Inc.Austen Cargill1.959Livingston, MTCargill Inc.Marianne Liebmann1.957Bozeman, MTCargill, Inc.Walter Scott1.979Omaha, NEconstruction, telecomJude Reyes1.955Kenilworth, ILReyes HoldingsJ. Christopher Reyes1.956Lake Forest, ILReyes HoldingsWilbur Ross1.972Palm Beach, FLInvestmentsMichael Jaharis1.982New York, NYpharmaceuticalsSteve Wynn1.968Las Vegas, NVcasinos, hotelsAlan Casden1.964Beverly Hills, CAreal estateJeffrey Hildebrand1.951Houston, TXoilAlbert Ueltschi1.8593Vero Beach, FLFlightSafetyJess Jackson1.8580Geyserville, CAJackson Family WinesIsrael Englander1.8562New York, NYhedge fundsFrederick Smith1.8566Memphis, TNFedExAustin Hearst1.858New York, NYHearst CorpPhoebe Hearst Cooke1.883San Francisco, CAHearst CorpGeorge Hearst Jr1.883Los Angeles, CAHearst CorpMarc Benioff1.846San Francisco, CASalesforce.comJerry Speyer1.870New York, NYreal estateKelcy Warren1.854Dallas, TXpipelinesJames Coulter1.850San Francisco, CAleveraged buyoutsFred DeLuca1.863Fort Lauderdale, FLSubwayPeter Buck1.879Danbury, CTSubwayJim Davis1.867Newton, MANew BalanceJeffrey Greene1.855Palm Beach, FLreal estate, investmentsNeil Bluhm1.872Chicago, ILreal estateDavid Bonderman1.867Fort Worth, TXleveraged buyoutsDean White1.887Crown Point, INbillboards, hotelsDavid Hearst Jr1.865Los Angeles, CAHearst CorpCharles Munger1.7586Los Angeles, CABerkshire HathawayStanley Hubbard1.7577St. Paul, MNDirecTVClemmie Spangler1.778Charlotte, NCInvestmentsBradley Hughes1.777Lexington, KYPublic StorageThomas Siebel1.757Woodside, CASiebel SystemsMichael Ilitch & family1.781Detroit, MIpizzaHenry Samueli1.756Newport Beach, CABroadcomJohn Catsimatidis1.762New York, NYoil, real estate, supermarketsAlexander Rovt1.758New York, NYfertilizerLouis Bacon1.752Londonhedge fundsAlec Gores1.757Beverly Hills, CAprivate equityClayton Mathile1.769Dayton, OHIamsRandal Kirk1.756Radford, VApharmaceuticalsThomas Kaplan1.748New York, NYCraig McCaw1.6561Seattle, WAMcCaw CellularIsaac Perlmutter1.6567Palm Beach, FLMarvelGlenn Dubin1.653New York, NYhedge fundsWilliam Connor1.660Hong Kongsupply-chain servicesS. Truett Cathy1.689Atlanta, GAChick-fil-ABharat Desai & family1.657Fisher Island, FLSyntelStephen Mandel1.654Greenwich, CThedge fundsGeorge Argyros1.673Newport Beach, CAreal estate, investmentsKen Fisher1.659Woodside, CAmoney managementManuel Moroun1.683Grosse Pointe Shores, MItransportationLeandro Rizzuto1.672Sheridan, WYConairBarbara Carlson Gage & family1.668Minneapolis, MNCarlson Cos.Thomas Pritzker1.660Chicago, ILhotels, investmentsTed Forstmann1.670New York, NYleveraged buyoutsMarilyn Carlson Nelson & family1.671Minneapolis, MNCarlson CosMichael Heisley1.673Jupiter Island, FLManufacturingJohn Marriott1.5578Potomac, MDhotelsL. John Doerr1.5559Woodside, CAventure capitalWilma Tisch1.5583New York, NYLoewsMin Kao1.561Mission Hills, KSnavigation equipmentAnita Zucker1.558Charleston, SCchemicalsPenny Pritzker1.551Chicago, ILhotels, investmentsThomas Friedkin1.575Houston, TXGulf States ToyotaLeon G. Cooperman1.567Short Hills, NJhedge fundsRobert Kraft1.569Brookline, MANew England PatriotsRichard Peery1.570Palo Alto, CAreal estateCharles Brandes1.567San Diego, CAmoney managementS. Daniel Abraham1.586Palm Beach, FLSlim-FastEdward Bass1.565Fort Worth, TXoil, investmentsBrad Kelley1.553Nashville, TNtobaccoHenry Nicholas1.551Newport Coast, CABroadcomRichard Marriott1.571Potomac, MDhotelsDavid Gottesman1.584Rye, NYInvestmentsNorman Braman1.578Miami, FLart, car dealershipsBernard Marcus1.581Atlanta, GAHome DepotJoe Jamail1.584Houston, TXLawsuitsGeorge Lindemann & family1.574Palm Beach, FLInvestmentsEdward DeBartolo1.563Tampa, FLshopping centersKavitark Ram Shriram1.4553Mountain View, CAVenture capital, GoogleDrayton McLane1.4574Temple, TXWal-Mart, logisticsJohn Pritzker1.457San Francisco, CAhotels, investmentsMichael Price1.458Far Hills, NJInvestmentsGary Michelson1.461Los Angeles, CAmedical patentsRobert McNair1.473Houston, TXenergy, sportsJohn Arrillaga1.473Portola Valley, CAreal estateRomesh T. Wadhwani1.463Palo Alto, CASoftwareDustin Moskovitz1.426San Francisco, CAFacebookT. Boone Pickens1.482Dallas, TXoil & gas, investmentsGerald J. Ford1.466Dallas, TXbankingAnthony Pritzker1.449Los Angeles, CAhotels, investmentsJay Robert (J.B.) Pritzker1.445Evanston, ILhotels, investmentsThomas Peterffy1.466Greenwich, CTInteractive Brokers GroupHenry Ross Perot Jr1.451Dallas, TXcomputer services, real estateJames Irsay1.451Carmel, INIndianapolis ColtsJoseph Craft & family1.459Tulsa, OKAlliance HoldingsRoger Penske1.473Birmingham, MIcarsRon Baron1.3567New York, NYmoney managmentJonathan Nelson1.3554Providence, RIleveraged buyoutsJames Kim & Family1.374Bryn Mawr, PAmicrochipsJames Pritzker1.359Chicago, ILhotels, investmentsBilly Joe McCombs1.382San Antonio, TXradio, oil, real estateJohn Morgridge1.377Portola Valley, CACiscoStephen Bisciotti1.350Millersville, MDoutsourcing, footballRay Davis1.367Dallas, TXpipelinesThomas Lee1.366New York, NYleveraged buyoutsRichard Chilton Jr1.352Darien, CThedge fundsMarc Lasry1.350New York, NYhedge fundsLinda Pritzker1.356St. Ignatius, MThotels, investmentsKaren Pritzker1.352Brandford, CThotels, investmentsJean (Gigi) Pritzker1.348Chicago, ILhotels, investmentsDaniel Pritzker1.351Marin County, CAhotels, investmentsChristopher Goldsbury1.367San Antonio, TXsalsaJames Dinan1.351New York, NYhedge fundsRichard Hayne1.363Philadelphia, PAUrban OutfittersLeon Charney1.369New York, NYreal estateVinod Khosla1.355Portola Valley, CASun Microsystems, venture capitalMichael Moritz1.356San Francisco, CAventure capitalEvgeny (Eugene) Shvidler1.346LondonMillhouse LLCPat Stryker1.354Fort Collins, COStryker CorpCarl Berg1.373Atherton, CAreal estateJohn Fisher1.2549San Francisco, CAGapHerbert Simon1.2575Indianapolis, INreal estateJon Stryker1.252Kalamazoo, MIStryker Corp.David Duffield1.270Blackhawk, CAPeopleSoftC. Dean Metropoulos1.264Greenwich, CTInvestmentsJoseph Mansueto1.254Chicago, ILMorningstarTom Golisano1.268Naples, FLPaychexHenry Swieca1.253New York, NYhedge fundsAlfred Mann1.284Las Vegas, NVmedical devicesBernard Saul1.278Chevy Chase, MDBanking, real estateAubrey McClendon1.251Oklahoma City, OKNatural gasJoshua Harris1.245New York, NYleveraged buyoutsMarc Rowan1.248New York, NYleveraged buyoutsGary Magness1.256Denver, COcable, investmentsScott Cook1.258Woodside, CAIntuitJohnelle Hunt1.278Fayetteville, ARtransportationMeg Whitman1.254Atherton, CAEbayMalone Mitchell1.249Oklahoma City, OKoil & gasTodd Wagner1.250Dallas, TXBroadcast.comBarry Diller1.268New York, NYIAC/InterActiveCorpThomas Barrack1.263Los Angeles, CAColony CapitalCharlotte Colket Weber1.267Ocala, FLCampbell SoupSheldon Solow1.282New York, NYreal estateArthur Blank1.268Atlanta, GAHome DepotAlfred James Clark1.282Vero Beach, FLconstructionRichard Scaife1.278Pittsburgh, PAInvestmentsAlan Gerry1.1581Liberty, NYcable televisionAlexander Knaster1.1551Londonoil, telecom, bankingPeter Sperling1.1550Phoenix, AZApollo GroupJerry Yang1.1541Los Altos Hills, CAYahooDavid Filo1.1544Palo Alto, CAYahooEduardo Saverin1.1528Miami, FLFacebookBruce Karsh1.1555Los Angeles, CAmoney managementHoward Marks1.1564Los Angeles, CAmoney managementKenneth Adams1.1587Houston, TXoilPeter Thiel1.143San Francisco, CAPaypal, FacebookSteven Roth1.168New York, NYreal estateMatthew Bucksbaum & Family1.184Chicago, ILreal estateDan Snyder1.145Potomac, MDWashington RedskinsFrank Fertitta1.148Las Vegas, NVcasinos, Ultimate Fighting ChampionshipWilliam Moncrief1.190Fort Worth, TXoilStephen Case1.152McLean, VAAOLNelson Peltz1.168Bedford, NYInvestmentsKenny Troutt1.162Dallas, TXExcel CommunicationsAlexander Spanos1.187Stockton, CAreal estateSidney Kimmel1.182New York, NYJones ApparelWilliam Macaulay1.165Greenwich, CTenergy investmentsHope Hill van Beuren & family1.176Middletown, RICampbell SoupKenneth Langone1.175Sands Point, NYInvestmentsEdmund Ansin1.174Miami, FLSunbeam BroadcastingIrwin Jacobs1.176La Jolla, CAQualcommPeter Lewis1.176Coconut Grove, FLProgressive CorpJohn Sperling1.0589Phoenix, AZApollo GroupTom Benson1.0583New Orleans, LANFL TeamElaine Wynn1.0567Las Vegas, NVhotelsSamuel Wyly175Dallas, TXInvestmentsNicholas Pritzker166Chicago, ILhotels, investmentsTamara Gustavson148Malibu, CAPublic StorageDonald Hall & family182Mission Hills, KSHallmarkMichael Krasny157Highland Park, ILCDW CorpLorenzo Fertitta141Las Vegas, NVcasinos, Ultimate Fighting ChampionshipPatrick Ryan173Winnetka, ILinsuranceGeorge Joseph189Los Angeles, CAinsuranceArturo Moreno164Phoenix, AZbillboardsThomas Secunda156Croton-on-Hudson, NYBloombergJeffrey Lurie159Haverford, PAPhiladelphia EaglesWilliam Ford Sr.185Grosse Pointe Shores, MIFord Motor CoDarwin Deason170Dallas, TXXeroxHerbert Allen & family170New York, NYinvestment bankingJohn Brown176Kalamazoo, MIStryker Corp.John Edson178Seattle, WAleisure craftsource: Forbes.com
Mark Zuckerberg, the 26-year-old co-founder of Facebook who todayovertook Steve Jobs and Rupert Murdoch on the Forbes rich list, has afforded TechCruncha big interviewto shed some light on the rumoured "Facebook phone".The internet was abuzz this weekend when speculation began growing about a Facebook-branded mobile phone; a chain-reaction of modestly-informed conjecture began witha TechCrunch article on Sunday. Now Zuck has sought to clear the air - with TechCrunch in particular - saying such misinformation makes partners (Apple and Google, among others) "think that we're trying to compete with them, that makes them not want to work with us". And: "If I knew who leaked it to you, I would've fired them already".Facebook is not out to compete with manufacturers or companies building operating systems, Zuckerberg clarified:"What I can say generally is that our goal is not to build an operating system from scratch, or else not to design hardware from scratch. Our goal is to make it so that we can design the best integrations in the widest variety of phones."[...] I mean, who knows, 10 years down the road, maybe we'll build our own operating system or something, but who knows. That is more history than we've had so far with the company, so it is really hard to predict that far out."And on the decidedly woolly "Facebook-branded phone" moniker quickly attached to the supposedly top-secret project, he said no conversations had reached the "level of detail" necessary for any manufacturer to carry its branding, saying: "So, do we have any conversation with someone to do deep integration? I'm sure we do. And I'm sure we're talking to them about marketing."Taking a chunk out of Google'srecent pronouncementson adding "social layers" to existing products, he added:"One thing that I think is really important — that I think is context for this, is that I generally think that most other companies now are undervaluing how important social integration is. So even the companies that are starting to come around to thinking, 'oh maybe we should do some social stuff', I still think a lot of them are only thinking about it on a surface layer, where it's like 'OK, I have my product, maybe I'll add two or three social features and we'll check that box'. That's not what social is."Zuckerberg said the company is ploughing more development time into HTML5 as a way to standardise the site across different platforms. "It's kind of a disaster right now," he said, pointing to the number of times one product has to be written."I really hope that the direction that this stuff goes in is one where there's more of a standard and again I think we have some people who are pretty good at working on this and hopefully we can capitalize on that because frankly we don't … we have 4 or 500 engineers at the company, it's pretty hard for us to build a lot of new products and build them all for these different platforms."So if something like HTML5 becomes a big standard then that would be hugely valuable for us. So we'll help push that. I imagine that over the long term that will be the solution to this problem that you're talking about.How is Facebook appropriating its time across mobile devices? His answer: "So, iPhone is the one we're investing in the most now, and Android increasingly. If Windows Phone 7 takes off, then I'm sure we'll put resources on that. [...] So maybe we're not building a lot of specific stuff for RIM and Blackberry, but the HTML5 stuff that we're doing will work there. [Though it won't on Windows Phone 7, which won't support HTML5 for some time - Charles Arthur]"[...] But I think the main message that I would hope that you guys would come away with from our strategy is that our goal is breadth not depth," Zuckerberg surmised. Got that?
Google has won a landmark ruling against Spanish broadcaster Telecinco, with a Madrid court rejecting the claim that the US search giant should be held responsible for copyrighted material posted to its YouTube video sharing website.Google hailed the case as a big win for the internet. The court threw out Telecinco's case, filed in June 2008, and ordered the broadcaster to pay Google's court costs.Telecinco had claimed YouTube was damaging its business by airing TV shows before they had been broadcast in Spain, arguing that Google "profits from the exploitation of intellectual property rights".In the ruling against the broadcaster, the Spanish court said it was the responsibility of the copyright owner to identify and tell Google when material that infringes intellectual property is on YouTube, noting that the site has tools allowing this to happen.A Google spokesman said: "We are very pleased with today's ruling. The win today confirms what we have said throughout this process: YouTube complies with the law. The ruling recognises that YouTube is merely an intermediary content-hosting service and therefore cannot be obliged to pre-screen videos before they are uploaded."Aaron Ferstman, Google's head of communications for YouTube in Europe, the Middle East and Africa,commented in a post on the company's European public policy blog: "This decision demonstrates the wisdom of European laws. More than 24 hours of video are loaded on to YouTube every minute. If internet sites had to screen all videos, photos and text before allowing them on a website, many popular sites – not just YouTube, but Facebook, Twitter, MySpace and others – would grind to a halt."We have always been open to working co-operatively with rights holders and continue to grow our number of partnerships with content owners and hope to be able to work with Telecinco in the future in the spirit of copyright protection, content distribution and new opportunities."In June this year Google won a similar case against US media conglomerate Viacom, which accused the company of allowing copyrighted material on its YouTube service. A Manhattan judge threw out the $1bn lawsuit, saying Google could not be held liable for having a "general awareness" that copyrighted videos might be posted to the site.
After a tough 18 months of bootstrapping, budgeting and battling for survival, most startups won't feel like we're experiencing a new dot com boom.But that's the observation of theWall Street Journal, which has noted the optimistic valuations in the consumer web market with companies pre-revenue and just a few months old raising money that values their firms at tens of millions.WSJ cites the purchase tracker Blippy as an example; $11m in funding that valued the site at $46m this year. Location darling Foursquare raised $20m funding valuing the service at $95m - an increase of $89m in just 12 months. The mighty Twitter saw its valuation rise from $95m in 2008 to $1bn last year.Are these inflated values, or true signs of optimism in a market that is bouncing back? The piece contrasts curiously with the Angelgate argument going on in Silicon Valley, where a secretive meeting between high profile investors appeared to be colluding to keep valuations down. This may have been Mike Arrington'smost unwelcome gatecrash yet.Photo bysashafatcaton Flickr.Some rights reservedTrue Ventureshas a rational take on the increasing competitiveness between super angels and VCs, whileFred Wilsonat Union Square says collusion has certainly happened where several VCs have been involved in a deal."If two or three firms are competing for a deal, and there is no other competition, firms have been known to call each other up, agree to work together on the deal, and then make an offer that is lower than the price each would have had to pay in a competitive situation."I know that such situations have happened. I've seen it first hand. But I have not seen it happen in a long time."But he thinks super angel collusion is a red herring. "The angel/seed market is really competitive these days, particularly in silicon valley. Valuations have risen and terms are weakening, as I've blogged about here recently. This is not a market suffering from collusion. It is a market where the investors wish they could inject some collusion. But they can't and they won't. Market dynamics, at least as they exist today and for some time to come, will not allow it."On Tuesday, we have a timely meeting with experienced financierSimon Carmichaelof Torch, who specialises in helping tech businesses with series b funding. We'll be asking him what he makes of the suggestion that there is collusion in the funding scene and what entrepreneurs can do to protect themselves and their businesses. Contribute your questions or concerns, anonymously if you wish, to the comments feedhere.
Mark Zuckerberg probably likes Forbes today: the magazine has named him the 35th richest – as in most valuable – person in the US, passing Steve Jobs (42nd) and Rupert Murdoch (38th) on the way.The co-founder of Facebook, aged 26, is estimated to be worth $6.9bn (£4.4bn), based on his shareholding in the social networking site, which boasts 500 million members worldwide.The value is calculated based on recent investments in his company by outside businesses in return for shares. That has tripled since last year – the largest relative increase on this year's Forbes US rich list.The complete Forbes list of the 400 richest people in the USis topped, as it has been for years, by Bill Gates, the co-founder of Microsoft, who has since left it to carry out charitable work in the developing world. His shares in the company are valued at $54bn – up by $4bn from last year.Zuckerberg is one of only eight members of the US list under 40. Two of the others are co-founders of Facebook – one of them, Dustin Moskovitz, is the youngest on the list, born just eight days after Zuckerberg, and worth $1.4bn. Two others of the under-40 set are the co-founders of Google, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, both worth $15bn and aged 37, making them equal 11th on the list.The list shows the dominance of technology companies in creating value in the US. Out of the top 50, 13 are in technology companies. After Gates, the third most valuable is Larry Ellison, chief executive of the database company Oracle ($27bn); other technology companies including Microsoft, Amazon (Jeff Bezos, 18th with $12.6bn), Apple (Jobs is valued at $6.1bn from his shares in Apple and Disney Pixar), SAS Institute (which makes business analytics software), Google (Eric Schmidt, the chief executive, is 48th at $5.45bn), eBay (co-founder Pierre Omidyar is 47th with $5.5bn). Murdoch, the News Corp chairman and chief executive, is valued at $6.2bn.The listing also shows that the stock market has been kind to the billionaires: where last year, a fortune of $950m was enough to get you into the top 400, the entry price has risen again to $1bn. In all, the 400 are worth a total of $1.37tn, compared with $1.27tn last year – an increase of nearly 8%, compared to the stock market's rise of just 1%.Most benefited from growth in their companies: after a dismal 2009, when 314 out of the 400 saw a fall in their wealth in the wake of the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers and the banking crisis, the top 10 this year gained $24.9bn in value (after dropping $40bn in value last year), and 217 of the list are now worth more than a year ago. Only 84 have seen decreases in their calculated wealth.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Can you please recommend any good, reliable spyware removal software? My preference is for a freeware if possible. I have a Dell D510 laptop, which is four years old.Senthil S KumarAnti-spyware programs are now going out of fashion because traditional anti-virus software increasingly targets spyware as well. The shift started when spyware changed from being old-style advertising pop-ups and tracking cookies and began to encompass keyloggers, Trojans and other serious types of malware. The turning point was marked by AVG buying the company behind Ewido Anti-Spyware and incorporating it into AVG8.However, there are still a number of powerful programs that you can run to check your PC for spyware, including SuperAntiSpyware and Malwarebytes' Anti-Malware (MBAM).SuperAntiSpywareis a free program that targets a wide range of spyware including fake anti-virus software, worms and rootkits. There's also a Professional Edition for $29.95.Malwarebytes' Anti-Malwareis a full anti-virus program that may well find spyware your usual anti-virus software has missed. You have to run it manually unless you upgrade to the paid-for version.Microsoft's Windows Defender is another free anti-spyware program. It began life as Giant Anti-Spyware, but Microsoft bought the company. It's usually a bad idea to run more than one anti-virus program at a time, but both Windows Defender and SuperAntiSpyware seem to co-exist happily with full AV programs, includingMicrosoft Security Essentials. A commercial option isWebroot's SpySweeper.To make sure your PC is clean, run SuperAntiSpyware before running Malwarebytes' Anti-Malware, because it may remove some infections that stop MBAM from running. When you run MBAM, select Perform Quick Scan and then click Scan. (Don't run a full scan.) When it has finished, click OK, then Show Results. Check to select everything and then click Remove Selected. After MBAM has finished, restart your PC and run your usual anti-virus software. If it finds and removes some more malware, repeat the whole process.The Spyware Info Forum has more detailed advice onHow to run a scan with Malwarebytes' Anti-Malware.If you have reason to suspect that your PC has picked up a particular piece of malware, try searching for specific ways to remove it. Popular help forums such as Bleeping Computer, Major Geeks, Geeks To Go, Tech Support Forum, the Spyware Info Forum and many more all have routines that use small targeted utilities and will walk you through the process. The Malwarebytes forum also has help instructions for dealing with many specific threats in itsMalware Removal Guides and Self Help Guidessection.It's worth putting some effort into malware removal, because it's no longer very visible or the result of kids messing about. Today, malware is developed by a large, professionally-run criminal industry, and its success depends on staying hidden.
It's a miserable rainy morning in the UK so what better way to brighten things up than a new Donkey Kong Returns trailer? The Wii reboot of theclassic SNES gamelooks marvellous and is likely to cause nostalgic overload for older gamers when it gets released in November.What are your memories of the original? I remember being simultaneously amazed by the graphics and put off by the difficulty. It seems like Donkey Kong Returns isequally challenging. Bring it on though. Yes, Nintendo does ruthlessly recycle its franchises but DKR looks like a worthy reinvention. What do you think then? Trailer getting you excited? Or where you too busy playing Doom 2 to even notice the original at the time?
'Nash equilibria are not optimal'. (ie: traffic jams happen.) Photo byTerence S. Joneson Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWilliam Perrin says goodbye to the UK's open data chief - and hello to the new one &gt;&gt; Guardian Datablog"There is no way the open data agenda would have actually become real and delivered without him."GeoVation seeks ideas to get you moving &gt;&gt; Ordnance Survey blogYou could win £25,000 if you have an idea on how to use geographic data to get Britain moving better.NVIDIA talks up GPU computing, presents roadmap &gt;&gt; Tim AndersonRemember GPU computing? Nvidia has been talking it up for a couple of years, but it's aiming to make it real and widespread. But are the programmers there?Secrets of Apple's customer success &gt;&gt; CNET News"Apple, in comparison to its competitors making PCs, has an ecosystem of hardware connected by its own software, iOS, iTunes, and Mac OS X. Apple has total control over its products and has been able to branch out to other types of devices beyond desktops and laptops. PC makers are somewhat beholden to the product cycles of Microsoft and are seen as just that, PC makers--not consumer device makers. So why aren't they copying Apple? HP actually is beginning to take steps in this direction. By buying Palm, it's looking to integrate mobile devices like phones and tablets into its larger ecosystem of laptops and printers. But other large PC makers like Dell and Acer are not there yet."The joint mobile operating system: A risible idea &gt;&gt; Mobile Industry ReviewVodafone and Orange are said to be talking about developing a joint mobile operating system. Ewan Macleod comments: "In the same way that it's ludicrous to consider my electricity provider supplying me a toaster along with weekly deliveries of bread to use within the toaster, it's entirely unnatural for a mobile operator to reach beyond a basic transaction-led service oriented architecture."Never heard ofGeneral Electric?Fake, the Scriptable Web Browser, Is the Real Deal &gt;&gt; Tidbits/comA very good review of this app for the Mac. Is there anything like it for Windows?Six Reasons Why I'm Not On Facebook, By Wired UK's Editor &gt;&gt; Wired.comThey're all sensible.David Cameron reveals his secret addiction: Angry Birds &gt;&gt; Evening Standard""The Prime Minister is a huge Angry Birds fan and has paid for the full game. Times are a changin'," Andy Payne of the UK Interactive Entertainment Association, who met with Cameron to discuss gaming, said in a twitter message. "He absolutely loves it. Wants to know what other top games he should get for his iPad. Compiling a list for him." The Prime Minister's office confirmed that Mr Cameron owns an iPad, saying 'he loves it'."So we have a Prime Minister who plays video games. Sorted?Out-of-the-blue empty emails bring redirecting malware danger &gt;&gt; Graham Cluley's blog"This isn't like the old days of worms like "Anna Kournikova" and "The Love Bug" which could be very easily described in terms that the average chap in the street would understand, so they would know what to look out for. All we have is "look out for empty emails with an attachment which might end with _inv.html". Ask yourself this - are your colleagues likely to find that memorable?"McAf.ee Secure URL Shortener BETA &gt;&gt; McAfee.comLinks offered for shortening will be checked for spam, viruses, malware and so on. We only wonder which country is ".ee" without resorting to Wikipedia.Nokia set to strike back at Android &gt;&gt; Financial Times"Mr Vanjoki agreed with suggestions that handset makers using Android could have low operating margins and claimed they were likely to enjoy only temporary relief with Google's operating system. He compared the companies to Finnish boys who "pee in their pants" for warmth during the cold winter."RIM Readies Tablet to Rival iPad &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd. could unveil its new tablet computer—as well as the operating system that will power it—as early as next week at a developers' conference in San Francisco, said people familiar with RIM's plans."Comparison of e-book readers &gt;&gt; WikipediaComprehensive directory of e-readers – if any one sees similar for tablet devices please shout up.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Several developments are being  trumpeted as "the future of gaming".The Kinect for Xboxand Sony'sPlayStation Move(reviewed opposite) are pushing motion gaming, which tracks the player's movements. Sony  is also pursuing 3D gaming, which  I recently tested – slip on a pair of 3D glasses and, if you don't get a headache, enjoy gaming with depth perception.I am not convinced that the future  of gaming lies in better display or  controllers. The breathtaking photo- realism of Red Dead Redemption shows that games are no longer  visually inferior to movies and, while easier-to-use controllers make gaming more accessible, they don't change the essential experience. But the sci-fi geek in me is fascinated by the obvious next step: combine the two. Mix motion gaming with 3D and you'd get a game that pops off the screen and with  which you interact by touching the  virtual objects. It would be one step closer toStar Trek's holodeck, which, on the TV show, projected a simulated  reality of your choosing to play in or,  in most holodeck-based episodes, to malfunction and try to kill everyone.Killing aside, I wonder if holodeck-style gaming would actually be more fun. In the theatre, theproscenium archis there to frame the story and separate it from "real life" outside. Computer game characters in my home might feel as awkward as living with an ambulatory theatre production.But then, one does get used to  technology.Mobile communication  devicesandelectronic booksnever used to seem normal, so perhaps I'd get used to characters such asLinkorKratoshanging out in my living room,  criticising my curtains.
Google's ambitions to expand its Street View mapping service in the Czech Republic have been dealt a fresh blow today as the country's privacy watchdog says the product "disproportionately invades citizens' privacy".Last week the Czech Office for Personal Data Protection refused for the second time to allow Google to collect images for its panoramic Street View service, citing fears it could break the law. Today Igor Nemec, chairman of the Czech privacy watchdog, said the technology behind Street View presented a threat to the privacy of the country's 10.5 million citizens.Data protection officials in Prague have been investigating Google Street View since April, six months after the service launched in the country. Photographs already collected by the internet company have been allowed to remain on the site, though talks over the future of Street View – which has also run into trouble in Germany – are ongoing.Google today said most conditions set out by the government had been met. The company now only publishes blurred images of individuals photographed in the Czech Republic and has said it will remove any images subject to a complaint by a member of the public. Google said it would collect no new data in the country until the negotiations had been resolved.Nemec's statement that Street View "disproportionately invades citizens' privacy" will set back the California-based company's hopes of satisfying the Czech government and continuing to roll out the service across the country.He also expressed concern about the technology used to capture the panoramic images, saying the cameras built atop Street View cars are too tall (2.7 metres), allowing photographs to be captured "over the fence".Earlier in the week Nemec said Google had failed to comply with obligations incumbent on companies collecting data in the country. "A data [collector] seated outside the European Union is obliged to appoint a representative on the territory of the Czech Republic. Google Inc, an American entity, has failed to do this."Google met officials in Germany earlier this week where calls for stricter data protection regulation have intensified around the company's Street View product. Google has given the German public until 15 October to apply to opt out of being photographed on the site.The UK's information commissioner ruled that the Google Street View service does not encroach on the privacy of citizens. Writing in response to a complaint by campaign group Privacy International in April 2009, the information commissioner said: "If consent [to upload images of private citizens] were required by law, then the producers of, say, Match of the Day, would have to gain the consent of all people attending televised football matches who might be caught on camera."Google continues to be investigated by many countries across the world – including the UK – for the unlawful collection of Wi-Fi data by its Street View cars, which the company admitted it mistakenly retrieved while mapping towns and cities.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
