I’ve been playing Papers, Please a lot this weekend on iPad: a touchscreen tablet feels like the perfect device for the game, which sees you checking people’s papers as a border-control guard in the fictional state of Arstozka.What’s missing, for now, isfull nudity when you submit unlucky visitors to full body scans. It doesn’t spoil the game, but it does raise some old, troubling thoughts about the way Apple sees games in relation to other artforms like music and books.The company has been clear about the hierarchy in its App Store guidelines: “We view Apps different than books or songs, which we do not curate. If you want to criticize a religion, write a book. If you want to describe sex, write a book or a song, or create a medical App.”Now games designer and consultant Tadgh Kelly iscalling on the company to rethink its attitude:“Via Apple today I can purchaseGame of Thronesepisodes orLady Chatterley’s Lovereven though both have invited questions of appropriate content in their time. Why? Because Apple understands context. Media gets protected even though some would find it offensive because it matters. Except for games. If a game is philosophically seen as like an app then it falls under a certain remit. If a game is philosophically seen as like a book or album, it goes another way. Shifting from one to the other view is what needs to change.”In the case of Papers, Please, it seems Apple has already changed its policy, at least according to developer Lucas Pope, who says he’s beenasked to resubmit the original version.What do you think about the wider issue here: should games be censored in the same way that music, books and TV shows or films are – whether for nudity, violence or satirical content? Or are there still good reasons for treating this particular artform differently? The comments section is open for your views.What else is on the tech radar today? Some links to think about:Should YouTube be less like Spotify?Music industry analyst Mark Mulligan’s latest views on how digital music is evolving. “If YouTube is the radio equivalent for youth, make it look and feel more like radio, not like Spotify premium with video. Instead, make YouTube look like Pandora with video...” Pandora being the US personal radio service that doesn’t let you pick and choose songs on-demand, of course.Excitement and challenges of the visual webMore thinkpiecery (is that a word?) from veteran tech journalist Om Malik. “As the popularity of Instagram and Pinterest demonstrate, we are adapting to a different kind of a web, one that will be increasingly visual. And as more and more images populate the web, it’s getting harder and harder tofindthem. That’s exactly where the opportunity lies...”Is the time right for a ‘Spotify of news’ yet?“Australian startup Inkl is hoping to fix journalism’s broken strained business models with a ‘Spotify for news’ model that ditches the unwelcoming and irritating single publication paywall in favour of aggregated news content from multiple publishers which users access ad-free for a small (10c) per article fee. Or gain unlimited access to all the news they fancy by paying a monthly $15 subscription.”Shock news: people complain a lot on social media“We complain about brands an astonishing 879 million times a year on Twitter, Facebook, and other social media networks. A full 10 percent of us find something to be angry about publicly every single day,” reports VentureBeat. And apparently brands ignore those complaints 32.8% of the time. Which is frankly outrageous *posts 17 furious tweets*NASA is ‘All About That Space’Space travel:What else? The comments section is open for your thoughts on the stories above, and other links you think people would be interested in reading, discussing and fuming about on social media of all kinds.
It’s Monday, let’s talk.
There were Christmas shopping bargains galore on Amazon’s website over the weekend … for about an hour. Because of a technical glitch, the prices of thousands of items crashed to 1p – giving eagle-eyed customers a pre-Christmas treat while leaving scores of small family-owned businesses nursing heavy losses, with some warning they could enter the new year facing closure.From 7-8pm on Friday, software used by third-party sellers to ensure their products are the cheapest on the market went haywire and reduced prices to as little as 1p. “Amazon is all kinds of broken,” one observertweeted. “Mattress 1p. Headphones 1p. Batteries, clothing, games all 1p. Someone messed up big time.”Martin Le Corre, who sells toys and games via his MB Housewares store on Amazon, told the Guardian that the glitch in software developed by RepricerExpress could have cost him more than £100,000.“We got a call from a competitor to say ‘do you realise all your listings at a penny?’ By the end of the hour, we had 1,600 orders,” he said. “People were buying 10, 50, 100 copies of everything. It is £50,000, £60,000, £100,000 of stock; we can’t even work it out.”Le Corre immediately took his store offline, but more than £30,000 worth of orders had already been marked as dispatched by Amazon, meaning they could not be cancelled and shoppers would be able to keep the goods.Amazon is working to cancel orders that have not been dispatched, but sellers complained that the cancellations were ruining their seller ratings on the site.Le Corre, who spent the weekend stock-checking in the company’s warehouse, said one buyer bought 95 board games that should have cost £12.99 each for 99p each.“I’m kind of wishing I was on the other side of this,” he said.Stephen Palmer, who sells TVs and mobile phones from his shop, TV Village, in Aberfoyle, Stirling, said he thought someone was playing silly beggars with him when he noticed a flurry of Amazon notification emails stating his stock had been selling for 1p.“One customer in Kent ordered 59 mobile phones, each for 1p,” he said. “That is stock worth £1,500.” Palmer said the order was marked as dispatched by Amazon’s distribution centre 24 hours after he called the internet company to try to stop his products from being dispatched in 1p orders.He said Amazon appeared to be having huge problems trying to stop items being dispatched from its warehouses. “You can imagine what it’s like, once the computer has set everything in motion it’s very hard to put a human being into the process and get it stopped.”Judith Blackford, of the fancy dress company Kiddymania, was also affected. “I have lost about £20,000 overnight. Having asked Amazon to cancel the orders they are still sending them out and charging me horrendous fees. Surely someone has to be accountable for this. I will be bankrupt at this rate by the end of January,” she said.Blackford, a single mother who set up her dolls and fancy dress shop in the back bedroom of her Leicestershire home 10 years ago, said she noticed the problem when she was flooded with orders on Friday night. “150 orders came in all of a sudden,” she said. By the end of Friday night, her Amazon account showed she had sold 675 items, some of which should have cost £100 each, for 1p each.“I phoned Amazon but the support line was closed until the morning. There was an emergency email, but they just said they were aware of it and looking into it.“I’m guessing, but I think it will cost me £15,000-20,000,” she said. “I’m really worried, I haven’t slept or eaten all weekend. We could be facing bankruptcy, I don’t know what to do.”Meanwhile, buyers were having a field day.Quirky Jezza tweeted: “I’ve just spend 80p on Amazon … for a few thousand pounds value … Loads of things are 1p … Hacked? xD. All of that in the last hour. I’ve ordered about 500 things in total tonight. I would laugh if any of them arrive :o”Sellers rounded on RepricerExpress, whosewebsiteboasts that it provides “the ridiculously simple way to increase your Amazon holiday sales”.Stuart Cameron said on RepricerExpress’s web forum that his entire inventory had been sold for 1p in less than two hours. “Heads are going to roll,” he wrote. “Solicitor first thing Monday morning. This has just cost me thousands and now we have to stock-check my entire warehouse.”Brendan Doherty, the chief executive of the Derry-based RepricerExpress,apologisedto his customers and said everyone at the company was devastated by the mistake.“I am truly sorry for the distress this has caused our customers. We understand that you are angry and upset and we will endeavour to work to make good on this issue and to work to restore your confidence in our product and service,” he said.An Amazon spokesman said: “We responded quickly and were able to cancel the vast majority of orders placed on these affected items immediately and no costs or fees will be incurred by sellers for these cancelled orders.“We are now reviewing the small number of orders that were processed and will be reaching out to any affected sellers directly.”Neil Saunders, the managing director of Conlumino, a retail research agency, said: “The situation demonstrates the dangers of relying on automated software to determine pricing. Coming at one of the busiest times of the year, it could have a catastrophic impact on the profits of those affected. Confidence in this pricing system will now be severely undermined.”
Imagine this scenario. German police investigating a press leak descend on Deutsche Bank headquarters in Frankfurt. They serve a warrant to seize a bundle of private letters a US reporter is storing in a safe deposit box at a bank branch in Manhattan. The bank complies and orders the branch manager to open the reporter’s box and fax the private letters to the Stadtpolizei.Uproar! The US would be outraged at the bypassing of bilateral agreements and flouting of its citizen’s rights. And yet this is exactly what the US government is ordering Microsoft to do, according to the software giant’s general counsel, Brad Smith.Afterbruising revelationsregarding the company’s working relations with the National Security Agency (NSA), Smith has emerged as one of the technology industry’s loudest voices for reform and greater openness.Now he is spearheading Microsoft’s fight againstUS government demandsfor access to emails from a Microsoft customer which are currently sitting on a server in Dublin, Ireland, as part of a narcotics investigation. Earlier this year, a US court ruled that Microsoft should hand the data over. Microsoft declined to comply, voluntarily entering into contempt.Last week Microsoft filed its appeal: “The power to embark on unilateral law enforcement incursions into a foreign sovereign country – directly or indirectly – has profound foreign policy consequences. Worse still, it threatens the privacy of US citizens,” the company said in court documents.If Microsoft loses, Smith argues it could put all of our private digital information at risk as well as further damaging the standing and reputation of US tech firms still reeling fromthe NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden’sleaks.It is believed to be the first time a US company has fought the government against a domestic warrant for data held overseas and it is likely to prove one of the most important test cases to emerge since the NSA leaks. It is a case almost tailor-made for Smith. Microsoft’s top lawyer since 2002, he has a deep interest in the long history of government challenges to privacy – challenges he says have often been triggered by wars and by changes in technology.Smith says the current debate, and Microsoft’s upcoming court case, were “historically inevitable”. “The pendulum swung for lots of reasons we can understand following 9/11. The pendulum always swings back, that’s one of the lessons of history,” he says.Washington has often clamped down on personal liberty during times of war. Smith cites President John Adams’s introduction of the alien and sedition acts in the name of national security in 1798, during a “quasi-war” with France. The bills effectively disenfranchised voters who disagreed with Adams. One of the acts, thealien enemies act, was used by Franklin D Roosevelt to intern Japanese Americans during the second world war, another egregious example of government overreaction in the name of security.Today’s debate differs from previous ones on two major points, Smith says. First, previous wars had defined endings. The “war on terror” appears without end.President Franklin Roosevelt used 18th century emergency legislation to intern Japanese Americans during the second world war, in an overreaction in the name of security.Photograph: Bettmann/Corbis“The current challenges to the security and safety of people don’t have that defined ending,” he says. “By definition we are having to think about how we navigate through a more dangerous world. At the same time one really needs to think hard about how the balance should be struck between public safety and personal privacy.“Both are not just important goals but important values for society. It’s not as if we can throw one aside for the other.”The second major difference is technology. Before the internet, issues of privacy were largely national affairs. Now those borders are gone. There are about 3 billion connected devices today – including a billion PCs and 2 billion smartphones. By the end of this decade, Smith says there will be 50 billion devices connected to data centres, everything from smart watches and health bands to thermostats and fridges. All the information they collect will be very telling about us and will all be stored – like those emails in Dublin – in the cloud. How it is protected will be one of the big debates of the coming decade, he says.History has led to starkly different attitudes in different countries. “You can’t help but be in Berlin without feeling the full force of German history and what that means for the German people,” says Smith. “In the same vein it has impacted the views of people in the United Kingdom and the United States.”While the Germans reacted with fury to the NSA revelations, especially the news thatthe NSA spied on Chancellor Angela Merkel, the UK government has fought back. Robert Hannigan, newly installed GCHQ boss, recently castigated US tech firms for failing to cooperate enough with spy agencies, calling them“the command and control networks of choice”for terrorists.“[There are] few countries where people have lived for more decades with the threat of domestic terrorism,” says Smith. “The UK hasn’t even had the same history as the US with the government overreaching and abusing its own power. The UK doesn’t have Watergate but it does have Bletchley Park.”Hannigan’s comments followed similar criticisms from the FBI director,James Comey, who has charged that the increasing use of encryption aids criminals and terrorists and is leading us to a “a very, very dark place”.“I understand the point but the focus falls short of what is going to lead any of us to a better path,” says Smith. “Fundamentally, technology companies are reacting to not just a business but a societal imperative. People will only use technology that they trust and given that that trust has been under pressure companies have to find ways to restore trust.”The only ways to do that are through stronger technology or better laws, he says.“If there are those in government concerned about stronger technology then we need to have a dialogue about better laws. The only thing I am certain will not get us anywhere is complaints about better technology and a resistance to better laws.”In the absence of better laws, Smith says technology companies will continue to innovate and continue to encrypt data – unless they are stopped.So far Smith has been disappointed by the lack of progress made by legislators. In November the USfailed to pass the USA Freedom Act, a bill that would have curbed some aspects of surveillance but which Smith said would still have left major issues unaddressed. For example the US has yet to rule out hacking into the data centres of firms outside the US. “We believe we are entitled to constitutional protection from our own government wherever we happen to be,” Smith says.Regarding the UK, he is concerned about the expansion of surveillance under the Data Retention and Investigatory Powers Act. “I understand how that enhances public safety in Britain,” he says. “And I think you have to appreciate that. But on balance it creates more difficulties for creating an international regime where countries each have laws that they can follow and respect.”If other governments follow the UK and US, Smith says, tech companies will be placed in the middle of an irresolvable issue. “One government will say you must go get this and another will say you must not hand it over,” he says. And tech companies are not in the position to solve this issue themselves, he says.“When people suggest technology companies should go beyond what they are legally required to do, I feel what they are really asking technology companies to do is make decisions that the governments themselves haven’t been prepared to make. The better course is for governments to decide in the form of law what technology companies must do.”The best news so far for the tech sector and privacy has come from the supreme court. In a sweeping June decision, the US’s highest court unanimously ruled that police must obtain a warrant to search the contents of cellphones seized from people they have arrested.The so-calledRiley decisionshows that the supreme court understands how important technology has become in terms of storing people’s private information and reasserts the concept that “protection of privacy is a timeless value even amidst changing technology”, Smith says.Despite some high-profile opinions, notably that of the Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, who infamously said privacy was dead, privacy is very much alive and well, says Smith. “The meaning of the term has evolved. It’s not about keeping something secret. It’s about continuing to control who you share information with and what they can do with it. That notion of privacy deserves legal protection.”Microsoft’s own polling in various states and countries shows consumers agree with the supreme court that information stored in the cloud should have as much protection as information stored on paper. “So far, repeatedly 80% or more of the public embraces that principle,” he says. “The public gets it and if the public gets it then I think the courts will get it as well.”Microsoft’s appeal is backed by Apple, AT&amp;T, Cisco, Verizon and others, all of whom argue that a final decision in favour of the US government would create a “dramatic conflict with foreign data protection laws”. Germany has already stated that if the decision is upheld, it will not store data with US cloud service providers.The film The Lives of Others concerned East German domestic surveillance. ‘You can’t help but be in Berlin without feeling the full force of German history and what that means for the German people,’ says Brad Smith.Photograph: PRThe Guardian and other news organisations are filing supporting briefs, arguing that if the company loses, the US government could come after news organisations by targeting emails and other information stored overseas.Oral arguments are expected to begin in the spring. If Microsoft loses, Smith says companies will be forced to do more of what the government dislikes the most, in order to reassure customers. “It will force companies to look for more ways to encrypt data and not retain the keys. Partner with non-US companies so that non-US companies have the servers. None of which will be helpful to the US,” he says.A win for the US will also encourage other governments to follow suit. “The US government cannot expect to have one model that it follows without anticipating that the rest of the world will follow that model,” Smith says. “And this is a model that encourages governments to reach into other territories. That does not seem like a sound approach to international stability or mutual respect in the 21st century.”Smith sees more battles ahead as the world’s major governments are forced to rewrite rules written for another era. The Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the act over which Microsoft and the US are clashing, was introduced in 1986 by Ronald Reagan. That same year, Smith brought his first computer to work. There was no Facebook, no Fitbit; Microsoft Word was three years old. Most people still used typewriters.The intersection of technology and law was peripheral. Now it is central, and so important that Smith believes some form of international framework will have to be worked out. He is optimistic that it will come, despite international differences.“It’s become so important to society that it has become a mainstream topic. It makes it even more important to think now about the values that are at stake because it affects us all in profound ways,” he says.“Ultimately it’s the governments that must make the decisions but we in technology have a role to play in trying to ensure that the debate is well informed and that we think broadly about our responsibilities as well.”
The hack of Sony Pictures gets worse and worse, in publicity terms. One day it’s the revelation of gender pay gaps; another it’s the awful internal presentations used to discuss film marketing; on another, emails between studio executives deriding Barack Obama. It’s a PR car crash from which the company might never recover.It’s easy to think that Sony has somehow brought this on itself; that the foibles of its parent are the root cause, after it blocked attempts to make its PlayStation console easier for enthusiasts to program, and in 2005 went as far as silently installing software on PCs of people who tried to “rip” Sony-BMG CDs to their digital collections.But the real lesson of the Sony hack is that it could happen to any company that doesn’t focus heavily on its security. And the effects can be destructive. News organisations (including the FT, Daily Telegraph, Associated Press, Washington Post and, yes, this one) have been embarrassed by the antics of the hacker group Syrian Electronic Army; but the harm only extended to social media reputations, which were soon cleared up.The threat that Sony is waking up to is that a hacker systematically worked through the entire organisation’s computer network with untrammelled access, and is now – either as a prelude to extortion, or revenge – releasing the contents. “They’re shooting the hostages,” as Sean Sullivan of the online security company F-Secure puts it.Security companies themselves don’t assume they’re safe. “I assume someday we will be hacked,” commented Rich Mogull, of security company Securosis, on Twitter. “Also, not perfect, but [I] try and only write [in email] what I’d tell someone to their face.”What security companies call the “threat landscape” is very different now even from a couple of years ago. The FBI reckons that the Sony attack would have been hard for even a government to defend.Sony’s staff took the radical step of using pen and paper when their computer network was wrecked. Perhaps the future of internal corporate communication lies beyond email – in apps like Slack, secure messaging, and so on. Or – more radically – perhaps people will start talking to each other more often. But whichever it is, the reality is that the hackers are not going away. Sony won’t be the last to suffer.
Hacking. It’s a word commonly associated with murky rooms, nefarious characters and attempts to steal data. So when the Royal Institution announced that this year’s Christmas lectures will be titled “How to Hack Your Home”, it seemed almost an act of establishment rebellion.But it wasn’t. Because hacking has taken on a new identity – grown a Dr Jekyll to counter its Mr Hyde. “Hack” is now the byword for smart fixes and canny contraptions, from home-crafted alarm systems to remotely operated kettles which, 20 years ago, could only have been dreamed up by Wallace and Gromit and suffixed with “o-matic”. And for the University of Manchester’s Professor Danielle George, who will be taking to the stage this year, the Christmas lectures are the perfect opportunity to peel off the sinister-activites label and replace it with a fantastic-benefits one. “[Hacking] is not all illegally entering databases at the Pentagon,” she explains when we meet in the rarified surroundings of the Royal Institution. “It’s something positive, something we should actually encourage people to do, especially children.”That electronics should be at the heart of the Christmas lectures seems somehow fitting given that they were kicked off in 1825 by Michael Faraday – the intellectual maverick who put forward the principle of electromagnetic induction. And there’s no doubt that he was keen on tinkering – among his myriad inventions is the electric dynamo.George’s own research is in radio frequency and microwave communications and the devices she develops have contributed to projects that even Faraday couldn’t have dreamed of – the enormousSquare Kilometer Arrayamong them. When construction is finished on its two sites in Australia and South Africa it will be the largest radio telescope on Earth. George’s instruments form part of the receivers and enable very weak signals, picked up from space, to be amplified. “What you don’t want to do is add any more noise to the signal that you are receiving,” she says. “The amplifiers I design are termed ‘low-noise amplifiers’, so we’re trying to reduce the amount of noise that comes from the receiver itself.”For George the fascination with the way things work began young; as a child she enjoyed prising apart mechanical and electrical goods and alarmed her sisters by “pulling the wings off a fly and putting it under the microscope and just seeing how the wings worked” – the fly, she hastens to tell me, was already dead. Her first degree was in astrophysics; she followed that with an MSc in radio astronomy and then a PhD in electrical and electronic engineering.But while investigating the innards of electrical goods and constructing her own is all in a day’s work for George, the emergence of a new wave of sleek consumer tech, she says, has made it more difficult for today’s youngsters to follow that sort of experimental, empirical path into science. “Many people now just look at phones, or smartphones or tablets as black boxes,” she says. “They just work.” If the device malfunctions it seems easier to get a new one than try to open it up to have a stab at fixing it.But the age of the tinkerer might just have returned. Mini-computers such as the Raspberry Pi or micro-controllers like the Arduino platform are inspiring a new generation to get to grips with electronics, to try out new ideas and build a host of devices. “I’ve certainly seen a difference – the students who come into the university now have started to do a lot more tinkering,” says George. Not, that they’d call it that.She, too, has been using the technology to create hacks for her own home. “We started using the Raspberry Pi or Arduino-type platforms just to set up a little webcam so that we could see the garden,” she says. “It triggers if foxes or whatever are coming across the garden.” And with her first child on the way, there are other plans afoot. “We’ve been playing around with a few ideas about what we might put in the nursery from a safety point of view – and also from a music point of view.” It’s an approach that can lead to all manner of devices, including homemade smart meters to keep tabs on the energy consumption of a host of household goods, and to tweak how and when they operate. And they don’t have to involve programming – making your fairy lights twinkle to music is a simple yet ingenious hack with not a Pi in sight.Of course the Christmas lectures are more ambitious than that. “We’re going to take a light bulb, a telephone and a motor and then say: where can these take us?” she says. “[With] the light bulb, for example, we want to make sure people understand the technology in terms of LEDs and where it is going, and possibly even communicating with LEDs these days, but then do something really large-scale – so could we, for example, play a Tetris-style game on the side of a skyscraper?”This approach looks bound to capture the imagination of young inventors, but George wants to go further – she wants to see us all getting to grips with crocodile clips in their own homes.“It’s really strange that people have the confidence to do things like baking – you could be a terrible cook or baker and you still might say, ‘Oh, I’ll give it a go, there’s a new recipe in whatever magazine.’ People should have the same attitude to electronics.”The reason that this have-a-go spirit doesn’t extend to electronic or computer tinkering comes back to public perception, she believes, and the subtle messages that seep through to children – the drip, drip, drip of negative attitudes towards science and maths. “It boils my blood when you hear it on TV or you hear parents saying that,” she fumes. “You’re making it into this big thing so our children think maths is really difficult. Maths might come extremely naturally to people and history could be really difficult, or learning a language could be really difficult. It’s just what interests you, what enthuses you, but if we drum it out of them by almost telling them that [maths] is difficult it really doesn’t help.”How to encourage children, especially girls, to pursue a career in science is a topic of intense debate, fuelled by shocking statistics.Only 20% of A-level physics candidates are girls– withdeep-rooted stereotypes, a lack of role models and uninspiring lesson stylesamong the factors often cited as stifling interest. The dearth of women in the field is something George has been keenly aware of since her student days. “At one point I was the only girl in my class and then at work I was one of only two female engineers,” she says. “Now in the university, in the school of electrical and electronic engineering, out of a staff of 70 staff there are five or six females.”If we’re to make it clear to kids that both boys and girls can aspire to the same scientific career, we need to take action while they are young: “We need to go back into primary schools and get across the message that there is no difference between little Polly and little Fred – they can both do exactly what they want to do.”One field that seems perennially to capture the imagination of children and adults alike, whatever their gender, is space science. The recent success of the Rosetta mission, in which scientists managed to deposit a lander on the surface of a comet as it hurtled along at 135,000 kilometers per hour, stole headlines the world over and sparked a wave of excitement that spread from mission control to offices and schoolrooms. It’s a phenomenon that many, including Professor Brian Cox, are keen to harness. “The next question [for schoolchildren] is: is it possible for me to do this?” Cox said in arecent interview.George believes theRosetta missionshows what a dose of electronics is capable of. “This space probe has managed to land on the comet, has taken data from [it] and the data is being sent back,” she says. “It is just phenomenal, the data rates you are talking about, but also the distance of communication.” And while those wielding a soldering iron at home are unlikely to rival the European Space Agency, that doesn’t mean they can’t use a little engineering to explore the solar system. “You could take the same principle and use the satellite dish that you have outside your house and use it to observe the sun or observe the moon. That is actually quite simple,” George says. When it comes to hacking, it seems, even the sky isn’t a limit.Sparks Will Fly: How to Hack Your Home will be shown on BBC4 at 8pm on 29, 30 and 31 DecemberTry hacking your own home (children with adult supervision) with these tricks from the Royal Institution:Illustration by Pete Guest.1. The macro lens for your mobileExperiment with closeups thanks to this eye-opening hackWhat you’ll needA smartphone with a cameraA disposable cameraA screwdriver or chiselScissorsA charity rubber wristbandMethod1Use the screwdriver or chisel to prise open the disposable camera – if the camera has a flash beware of the capacitor as it could give you a mild shock if you touch it.2Find the square of plastic on the front of the camera – this contains a small plastic lens. Use the chisel or screwdriver to remove to plastic and then set the lens aside.3Take a wristband and fold it in half. At the bend use the scissors to cut a small circular hole.4Take the lens and pop it flat-side down on top of the smartphone camera lens. Manoeuvre the wristband over the smartphone to hold the lens in place, aligning the small hole with the lens.5Turn off the smartphone’s autofocus function and you are set to snap! For best results get up-close to your subject (approx 2-3cm away).Illustration by Pete Guest.2. The synchronised Christmas lightsGet set for the festive season with this bright ideaWhat you’ll needA TIP31c transistor (can be purchased online or from electronics shops)A set of battery-powered fairy lightsAn audio jack (can be purchased online or from electronics shops)Short lengths of thin wireElectrical tapeAudio splitter – optional (can be purchased online or from electronics shops)Note: if the audio jack is not already wired, carefully unscrew it and attach a length of wire to the longer prong (the ground) and another length to either the left or right prong. Then screw the casing back on.Method1Remove the batteries from the battery pack of the fairy lights.2Look at the battery pack. Work out which is the negative wire (the one attached to the terminal with a spring) and which is the positive wire (the other one).3Cut the wire protruding from the negative terminal of the battery pack (leaving a length of wire still attached), and strip away some of the plastic coating.4Twist this wire around the central pin of the transistor and cover it in a little electrical tape.5Strip a little plastic from the length of wire still attached to the negative terminal of the battery pack – twist this around the right-hand pin of the transistor and cover it with tape.6Connect the ground wire of the audio jack (the wire attached to its longer prong) to the right-hand pin of the transistor, again cover in a little electrical tape.7Connect the wire from either the left or right terminal of the audio jack to the left-hand pin of the transistor and secure with electrical tape.8Pop the batteries back into the pack.9Plug the audio jack into your laptop or computer and click “play music” on screen – you might need to ramp up the volume to see an effect.10To get the full effect, either play the same tune on another device or use an audio splitter: plug the hacked audio jack into one of its sockets and the jack of an additional speaker into the other.What’s going on?In this hack, the transistor is acting like a switch – when a current with a large enough voltage arrives from the jack the transistor “switches on”, allowing the larger current from the battery pack to flow and the lights to glow.Illustration by Pete Guest.3. The crisp-packet stylusLost the stylus for your tablet? Don’t worry, you can knock up a new one in your lunchbreakWhat you’ll needA piece of paperA blunt pencilScissorsA crisp packet with a metallic liningSticky tapeMethod1Eat the crisps and then give the inside of the packet a wipe to remove crumbs.2Cut a 5cm x 5cm square out of the crisp packet.3Cut a 2.5cm x 2.5cm square out of paper.4Fold the square of paper in half and half again, to form a smaller square, then fold this in half diagonally to form a triangle.5Insert the tip of the pencil into first fold of the triangle so that the paper forms a cone over the end of the pencil.6Place the tip of the cone-covered pencil into the centre of the crisp packet square. Bunch up the crisp packet and tape it around the top to secure the crisp packet to the pencil.7Your homemade stylus can now be used on any touchscreen device – just make sure your fingers are touching the crisp-packet layer.What’s going on?Modern touchscreens don’t respond to pressure, they respond to changes in capacitance (a capacitor is essentially two conductive plates that can hold charge, separated by an insulator). Since your body conducts electricity, prodding the smartphone screen with your finger affects the electrostatic field at that point. For a stylus to work on such a device, it must conduct electricity from the body to the screen – hence the need for the metallic crisp packet.
The government has struck a deal with Telstra and Optus to gradually take control of their copper and pay TV wires to expedite the rollout of the national broadband network (NBN).NBN Co renegotiated its agreement with the telcos to include the acquisitions of the copper and hybrid fibre coaxial (HFC) networks at no incremental cost to the taxpayer.The value of the deal it originally struck with Telstra remains the same, $11bn, despite the takeover of the ageing wire networks.The communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, praised the agreement as a “great step forward” that gives NBN Co a chance to decide what technology works best for the rollout of the broadband scheme.“The mix of technologies that the NBN will use are the leading cutting-edge technologies and techniques being used by the leading telcos around the world,” Turnbull told reporters on Sunday. “They will ensure that all Australians have access to very fast broadband, much sooner and at much less cost and much more affordably.“This should be seen as a win-win: a win for the taxpayer, a win for the consumers, a win for National Broadband Network and for Telstra shareholders ... and the project will be completed much sooner and at much less cost.”The head of NBN Co, Bill Morrow, said keeping the old networks would be less invasive than installing fibre cables.“The majority of homes across the country will no longer need to have their gardens dug up, their driveways broken apart or equipment mounted on their homes,” Morrow said.“The way the agreement works is that we have a right to go with whatever assets exist today and we intend to use all of that. Where the copper exists today and we intend to use it, it’s our choice, our prerogative, of how much we intend to use. For example, if the copper is unsuitable for us to be able to get the data speeds we are expecting, we don’t have to necessarily take over that responsibility,” Morrow said.While the acquisition of the copper and HFC networks will be absorbed into the cost of the existing government agreements with the telcos, taxpayers will have to pay for operating and maintaining the ageing cables.“Under the revised agreements … we will progressively transfer the ownership and the operational maintenance responsibilities for the relevant copper and HFC assets to NBN Co,” said David Thodey, chief executive of Telstra.Labor said the government had “sold out Australia” by buying technology that a previous Liberal prime minister, John Howard, had sold.The Labor spokesman for communications, Jason Clare, said: “Don’t believe the idea that this is free. This is going to cost taxpayers billions and billions of dollars to maintain and upgrade this old copper network. This is a copper nail in the coffin of the NBN. This is not the NBN that most Australians want.“The reality is that the Australian taxpayer has just assumed all the risk associated with these two assets – the copper network and the HFC network,” Labor’s Michelle Rowland said. “You get a slower, second-rate network.”NBN Co aims to give all homes and businesses high-speed broadband by 2020. There are 8m premises connected to the NBN.
Price from £16,715MPG up to 61.4Top speed 110mph“Aaaaarggghhh! Oh my God! It’s a Yeti!” I shout a frantic warning to my 13-year-old daughter. My eyes bulge in a mask of pantomime terror (I’m channelling my best All Black haka performance). The creature is behind her, crouching between the wheelie bin and the neighbour’s Mazda, but she doesn’t bother looking round, just swings her bag over her shoulder and saunters off to school with her friends. Oh well, worth a go I think. I pull my face together and wave at a passing mother. It’s like a scene fromOutnumbered, only with even unfunnier jokes.You’ve probably made a Yeti sighting yourself over the past few years. It was first spotted on our roads in 2009, and since thenSkodahas sold more than 30,000 of its award-winning SUVs. It’s one of their monster sellers (I’ll stop now, promise). So popular is the Yeti that Skoda decided to create two versions in its latest makeover. There’s now the Yeti and the Yeti Outdoor.Inside story: the comfortable and well-laid out interior of the Yeti.It’s a Jekyll-and-Hyde split. The regular Yeti (Dr Jekyll) has matching coloured bumpers and body trim, a choice of less-powerful engines and two-wheel drive. It’s aimed at families with metropolitan tastes. The Yeti Outdoor (Mr Hyde) is rugged with lots of chunky plastic mouldings. It has bigger engines, four-wheel drive and protective underbody armour so you can rough play with Mother Nature. It’s aimed at families with agricultural tastes. So far, the model most have bought is the 4x4 Mr Hyde with a 138bhp 2-litre turbo-diesel engine. It’s easy to see why. A polished all-rounder, it will do a frugal 50 miles to a gallon and at the same time has the ooomph to hit 60mph in less than 10 seconds. It’s that hint of wildness behind the eyes that we find so attractive.Of course the true madness of these “country-capable” cars is that they are rarely given a chance to get down and dirty and prove what they’re really made for. Unless, of course, you go looking for it. Driving my teenage son and his mates back from a rain-drenched rugby match in Kent, I decided to throw caution to the wind and abruptly launched off down a muddy and waterlogged lane. I figured the boys were already covered in mud so if we got stuck they could get out and push.Natural environment: the Yeti feels at home on the ice.We followed the narrow, bouncing track for several miles, churning up and down greasy hills, wading through brown water and finally ploughing across a sodden field. It was a doddle and the Outdoor took it all in its stride. It was only when I pulled off the muddy playground, relieved we hadn’t ended up in a ditch, that I noticed I’d forgotten to hit the car’s “off-road” button. It had coped regardless. We cruised home along the M20, the Yeti shaking the mud from its paws and settling into a refined, mile-munching stride.Inside, the two Yeti brothers are identical. Their Varioflex seating system provides you with more than 20 different arrangements – fold the back row flat and the back is van-like in size. The rear seats are mounted higher than the front ones, giving the back row a better view. And the high roof means there is plenty of head and leg room for adults – or 18-year-old rugby players. The standard spec is generous, but move up to the posher trim levels and you also get parking sensors, bi-xenon headlights, heated seats, satnav, a panoramic sunroof and park assist. Nothing, in fact, to be scared of at all…Are you a record breaker?Setting the record: 13 great films telling the behind the scenes stories of some of Britain’s landmark records.A bit of a confession here. For as long as I can remember I have been addicted to the annualGuinness Book of World Records. I’m almost 50 years old now and my mother still wraps one up for me every Christmas. I’ve got quite a collection in the downstairs loo now… Anyway, 2014 has been a big year for GWR as they have been celebrating their 60th birthday. To commemorate the milestone they have released a series of films celebrating some of the most iconic records that have been documented over the past six decades. The series, hosted on the Guinness World Records YouTube Channel, includes never-before-seen contributions from truly great British record holders, such as Andy Green OBE and his fellow land speed racer Richard Noble OBE, Lord Sebastian Coe, Sir Roger Bannister, Sir Richard Branson and Sir Ranulph Fiennes. Have a look for yourself at this link:youtube.com/playlist. One of the best of the series is Andy Green’s. It tells the twist of fate which led Andy Green to discover the project and ultimately pilot the trailblazing, 100,000hp Thrust SSC, which reached a staggering 763.035 mph (1,227.985 km/h), Mach 1.020, on 15 October 1997. I’m still looking forward to this year’s bumper annual, but these super films will keep me hooked until it arrives.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
There was a time when most of us didn’t see our Christmas “happy family” photographs until the summer, having finally finished the film and taken it to be developed at Boots. No longer. The selfie stick which allows photographers to extend their camera phone to a metre in length for group shots, along with the instantaneous nature of social media, means we can view our snaps the minute we take them.Selfie sticks are set to fill many a Christmas stocking this year. The idea of using an extendable pole with a grip device on the end to securely hold a smartphone originated among snowboarders and extreme sports aficionados who wanted to capture pictures of themselves in action. It soon caught on in Asia, where they became popular for taking group shots of family and friends, and for taking selfies in tourist spots because more of the attraction could be seen in the frame. They are also popular at gigs with better pictures of the band obtained by holding the phone above the crowd.It was in Asia that British entrepreneurs Neil Harvey and Steve Pengelly discovered them, leading to formation of their own selfie stick company Selfie Pods, based in Plymouth, this summer. “We were at a schoolfriend’s wedding in Manila and while we were there we saw hundreds of people attaching their phones to these sticks and taking selfies,” Harvey says. “When we first saw the selfie sticks we did think ‘that’s a bit weird’, then we realised there was a gap in the market for something like this.”The pair produce five versions of the sticks: a basic one (costing £7.99) is a simple extendable pole, meaning the selfie-taker sets the phone timer to take a picture, and a variety of advanced versions (from £14.99) which have Bluetooth shutter releases on the handles.Harvey and Pengelly claim to not take their business too seriously, but they have sold 6,000 pods between August and the end of November, with another 5,000 ordered to cope with Christmas demand. There is a proliferation of selfie sticks available online too, with Amazon selling more than 2,100 of them costing as little as £2.99.Like a million others, my Facebook picture is a selfie. It’s the only one I’ve ever taken because I think they’re a bit embarrassing. Manufacturers claim the selfie stick is different, less about taking a solo picture of yourself and more about the group shot. I duly ordered my own selfie stick and took to the streets of London. My first port of call was Buckingham Palace, where I met Matt and Emma, sightseeing for the day. They’ve had a selfie stick for two weeks. Not 10 seconds after I finish talking to them, another family up-periscope their own selfie stick. In a five-minute window, I witness 10 people with the contraption.I hotfoot it to Westminster bridge, eager to see how many people will be using their selfie sticks at the houses of parliament. I am not disappointed. Three big groups of Asian students are using them. Then two German girls, an American family … all within metres of each other. I did, however, nearly take a woman’s eye out when I was extending my selfie stick. It constantly got in the way of people, but it is a good way of getting some space in a crowd.This month South Korea banned the use of “unregulated” selfie sticks because it decided their use of Bluetooth makes them “telecommunications devices” which must be tested and registered in case they interfere with other gadgets.Harvey says criticism of the gadget dissipates once people start using it. “Lots of people think ‘what is the point of this’, but once you’ve had a go on one and seen the cool pictures you can produce without the need for a cameraperson, you realise that these little things are really quite a cool bit of kit.” That is, until your phone starts ringing when it’s in the clamp. Trying to answer it while it’s stuck at the end of a long pole looked like a modern-day Dom Joly sketch.
One night last week, I had a conversation over dinner with a student who is as puzzled as I am about why people seem so unworried by online surveillance. What would it take, we wondered, to wake people up? If the Snowden revelations did not constitute a “Milly Dowler moment”, then what would?The next morning, a colleague sent me a link to aTEDx talkgiven in Brussels by Mikko Hyppönen, the chief research officer of F-Secure, a Finnish computer security company. It’s a terrific, measured account of the mess we’re in and of how we got here, and well worth watching on that account. But for me, two things stood out.One was Hyppönen’s highlighting of an exchange that took place in the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance court (Fisa), which supposedly regulates and oversees covert surveillance by US intelligence agencies. Yahoo had decided to challenge demands from the security services for access to some of its users’ data. The hearing was, of course, held in secret, and we would never have known about it had not the furore over Snowden led to some of this stuff being retrospectively declassified.The relevant extract from the court transcript reads:Justice Arnold: “Well, if this order is enforced, and it’s secret, how can you be hurt? The people don’t know that – that they’re being monitored in some way. How can you be harmed by it? I mean, what’s… what’s your… what’s the damage to your consumer?”Ponder that for a moment. It’s extraordinarily revealing because it captures the essence of the mindset of the people who now rule our democracies. It’s a variant on the “if you have nothing to hide then you have nothing to fear” mantra. And it begs the question: who gave these people the right to think and act like this?The long answer goes back a long way – to Thomas Hobbes, John Locke and maybe Rousseau. The short answer is that we did. We elected these holders of high office – the home and foreign secretaries who ostensibly control MI5, MI6 and GCHQ, the MPs who cluelessly voted through laws such as Ripa (Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act), Drip (Data Retention and Investigatory Powers) and will do likewise for whatever loose statutes will be proposed after the next terrorist/paedophilia/cyber crime panic arrives.Which brings me neatly to the second striking point in Hypponen’s lecture. Earlier this year, he and some of his F-Secure colleagues carried out an interesting experiment in London. They set up a Wi-Fi “hotspot” that offered free connectivity to anyone in the vicinity who was willing to accept the terms and conditions under which the service was offered.One of these T&amp;C clauses read as follows: “YOUR FIRST-BORN CHILD: In using this service, you agree to relinquish your first-born child to F-Secure, as and when the company requires it. In the event that no children are produced, your most beloved pet will be taken instead. The terms of this agreement stand for eternity.”Everyone, but everyone, clicked “accept”.This casual carelessness, this tacit acceptance of outrageous terms and conditions, is, as far as we can tell, universal across internet users everywhere. In large measure it explains how we find ourselves living in a comprehensively surveilled world. And perhaps it also helps to explain why it’s so difficult to get people to wake up to the implications of the world that our carelessness has enabled.I used to think that imaginative failure explained the relative lack of public concern about state and corporate surveillance: people simply cannot conceive where this stuff might be taking us, which is why we needed novelists such as Orwell and Aldous Huxley –and now Dave Eggers– to help us visualise potential dystopias.But now I wonder if the explanation lies elsewhere. Could it be that the reason there has been so little public fuss about the Snowden revelations (with some notable exceptions, mainly Germany) is because everybody feels compromised, to a greater or lesser extent, by their online behaviour. Sure,in principle, we think it’s creepy that Google reads our mail, that Facebook monitors our relationships and that the spooks have a log of everything we’ve ever read on the web, but, hey, the services are free and the security services are unlikely to be interested in little old us.In that sense, we feel conflicted and compromised in the same way that we do over climate change. We know in our bones that we ought not to be driving diesel cars, leaving our lights on, flying to Tallinn on weekend breaks, putting off insulating our homes, etc. But we continue to do all of these environmentally disreputable things. Convenience trumps everything. And, like charity, it begins at home.
LittleBigPlanet 3 has been made by a different developer from the first two, but you wouldn’t know it. Stephen Fry’s perfectly measured voiceovers are joined by Hugh Laurie playing the lightbulb-headed Newton, and your sackperson, the game’s customisable hessian hero, is joined by three new stars: Swoop is a bird, Oddsock’s a wall-hopping dog, and Toggle can change from big to small. The level-creation tool has also been upgraded, its training session a beautifully playable level in its own right. It’s a thoroughly English, slightly eccentric piece of craft-inspired goodness.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKLara Croft And The Temple Of Osiris, PS4, XboxOne &amp; PCLast year’s gritty Tomb Raider reboot saw a younger Lara grow from terrified teen into tough adventurer by way of slaughtering several hundred mercenaries. Lara Croft And The Temple Of Osiris is a spin-off, a low-budget twin-stick shooter, where one joystick moves Lara around the screen and the other aims a stream of bullets at waves of ancient Egyptian enemies. You’re strongly encouraged to play cooperatively with friends, but the puzzles are pitifully simple and although the flood of enemies is broken up by the odd boss fight, it’s still wearyingly monotonous.Square Enix, £24.99The Crew, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS4 &amp; PCThe Crew is Ubisoft’s crack at blending driving and massive multiplayer games. You are Alex, bad boy racer framed for murder and freed by the FBI to catch the real killer by infiltrating a street-racing gang; but it’s not just the plot that needs a nice, solid baseball bat to the head. The cars are strangely bland, low-res looking affairs, while its cities can’t compete with the fantasy extravaganza of Grand Theft Auto V’s Los Santos or the beauty of Forza Horizon 2. The feeling of freedom you get driving across this miniaturised USA is incredible, but its missions, story and the cars’ handling are just atrocious.Ubisoft, £37.78-£49.99
Australian games journalist Alanah Pearce has used a novel tactic in response to persistent internet trolls: she tells their mummies. It followed her discovery that many of her more vociferously awful online critics were pre-pubescent rather than the middle-aged losers she’d been picturing, so she used Facebook to track down their mothers, and forwarded on their luridly explicit comments. Elsewhere, games out this week includeMetal Gear Solid V: Ground Zeroes(PC), Snake’s stealthy infiltration of a thinly disguised Guantánamo Bay finally arriving on PC andElite: Dangerous, the staggeringly vast and open-ended space trading and piracy game, which now gets the full-blooded next-generation treatment. It’s compatible with the upcoming Oculus Rift virtual-reality headset and is the nearest you can currently get to being a starship captain.
This car got me a parking ticket. I’d taken a neighbour to Stretford Mall in Manchester to do some shopping, and she was impressed with my new wheels. Enid (pictured), who usually suffers my filthyToyota Yariswith good grace, was keen to know how much the Lexus cost. She’s price-sensitive, is Enid – that’s why we don’t go just to Tesco, but also Iceland, in case the ready meals are a few pence cheaper.After parking in the disabled bay, I reached into the cavernous back seat to look at the press bumf. “You’ll never guess,” I said. “£40,000!” We were both so flabbergasted at the price tag that we forgot to put her badge on the dashboard, and returned to a £60 fine stuck to the windscreen.We decided to appeal, with Enid, 84, gamely posing for a picture with her walking stick to use as supporting evidence (we’re still waiting to hear).But back to the car. I loved driving it, but it baffled me at first. There’s neither ignition nor handbrake, just a power button to press with the foot brake engaged. Once the power is on, the driver’s seat moves forward to whatever position you’ve set it to, reversing again once you’ve parked, so that it’s easier to get out.Despite its considerable size, the NX would be a good car for creeping up behind an enemy – the hybrid engine (2.5-litre four-cylinder petrol combined with an electric motor and E-CVT automatic transmission) is spookily quiet when gliding at 30mph. There’s a lot of technology inside, not all of it intuitive.I found the hyper-sensitive touch pad difficult to control, and never figured out how to input a postcode into the satnav, nor how to activate the rain-sensing wipers. I couldn’t get the wireless smartphone charging tray in the armrest to work, either. It’s got a banging surround sound system, though, with between eight and 14 speakers dotted around the car, depending on the model.Crawling around the perennially busy M60 one morning, I was grateful for the wing-mirror sensors, which lit up any time a vehicle snuck into my blind spot. And the auto-dimming rearview mirror was handy on the Woodhead Pass, when a numpty behind had his headlights on beam.Thankfully, I never had to put the car’s eight airbags to the test, nor the “pedestrian protection provisions”, which include energy-absorbing material in the front of the bumper. If only it could incorporate a traffic warden-repellent, too.• Follow Helen onTwitter.
• Sony transformed the way we listen to music with the invention of the Walkman in 1979. The original prototype was created by an audio engineer for Sony co-founder Masaru Ibuka so that he could listen to operas during longhaul plane trips from Japan to the US. While it started as a portable tape player, Sony has kept the Walkman brand for CDs, MiniDiscs and MP3 players.• The company was founded by Akio Morita and Masaru Ibuka on 7 May 1946. The name is derived from sonus, the Latin word for sound, and ‘sonny’, slang for youthful boys.• In 1961 Sony was the first Japanese company to offer shares in the US.• In 1973 Sony received the first Emmy awarded to a Japanese company, for developing the Trinitron colour TV.• It launched the first CD player – the CDP-101 – in 1982• Sony moved into Hollywood in 1989 with the $3.4bn (£2.2bn) purchase of Columbia Pictures, renamed Sony Pictures Entertainment in 1991.• AIBO, the company’s robotic toy dog was born on 11 May 1999. It was added to Carnegie Mellon University’s Robot Hall of Fame as “the most sophisticated product ever offered in the consumer robot marketplace.” The last edition was launched in 2005.• Until 2013 the company was run by Sir Howard Stringer, a Welshman, and Emmy-award winning documentary film producer until he became Sony’s first foreign chief executive in 2005. He was replaced by Kazuo “Kaz” Hirai in 2010.• Sony quit laptops and PCs last year, selling its Vaio business. It also spun out Bravia TV, with losses of £4.6bn in nine years.The company has been hacked before. • Last year Sony was fined £250,000 after a “serious breach” of customer data after PlayStation network was hacked in 2011.
Facebook is considering ways to let users express a broader range of emotions than is possible with the “like” button alone.In thesecond public Q&amp;Aat its Menlo Park near San Francisco, Mark Zuckerberg said that many users of the social network did not feel comfortable in “liking” unfortunate life events such as deaths, while others wanted to be able to express surprise or laughter.However, Facebook nevertheless had no plans to introduce a “dislike” button.“There’s something that’s just so simple about the ‘like’ button’ ... but giving people more ways of expressing more emotions would be powerful,” Zuckerberg told the audience of users and employees.Referring to the aim of allowing users to express a wider range of emotions, he added: “We need to figure out the right way to do it so it ends up being a force for good, not a force for bad and demeaning the posts that people are putting out there.”It was always possible to comment on a post, he said, yet many people felt they needed to come up with something witty or clever in order to do so.No imminent announcement was planned, Zuckerberg added.Some 4.5bn likes are generated daily, according to the social network. The like button was introduced in 2009 along with the share button and was redesigned in November 2013. It and the share button are significant drivers of traffic to Facebook from other websites.Social Network was ‘hurtful’Facebook said in 2009 that using the like button in conjunction with leaving a comment was akin to reviewing a restaurant on a website: “We think of the new “like” feature to be the [five] stars, and the comments to be the review.”Zuckerberg said the Q&amp;A idea arose from the weekly internal sessions he conducted with staff every Friday that he said gave him and the management team “valuable information” to help run the company better.Mark Zuckerberg has ruled out the idea of a ‘dislike’ button on Facebook.Photograph: Hindustan Times/Getty ImagesAt thefirst Q&amp;A in early Novemberthe chief executive said that the film The Social Network was hurtful because it had “made up a bunch of stuff”.Zuckerberg also revealed that he had many versions of the ubiquitous grey T shirt because he did not want to waste time making “silly or frivolous” decisions such as what to wear, or what to have for breakfast.“I really want to clear my life so that I have to make as few decisions as possible about anything, except how to best serve this community [of Facebook users],” he said.•Social Network ‘made up stuff that was hurtful’, says Mark Zuckerberg
Stuck for a Christmas present that is a tad more exciting than socks or a book token? How about a gadget that shoots fireballs from the wrist?Developed by illusionistAdam Wilber, the Pyro wristband has four barrels, allowing four fireballs to shoot simultaneously, and has a reach of 30 feet.The flash gun, designed to be hidden under a sleeve, ignites chemically-embedded flash paper which burns rapidly, causing the fireball effect.In a slickly produced video that featuring fast cars, desert landscapes and brooding rock music, Wilber says the $174 (£111) product is for “superheroes”.Oddly, the video also boasts that this “badass professional device” comes with a “jam-packed instructional download”, which as far as excitement goes, does not quite get the pulse racing.The hadouken move, as seen in Street Fighter.Photograph: Street Fighter/CapcomPyro should appeal to both fans of the superhero genre, as well as devotees of theStreet Fightervideo game, in which fireballs, known as “hadouken” are a popular mode of attack for various characters including Oni and Sakura.Various Pokémon also boast fire-shootingability, with a whole litany of flame-based attacks.The wristband is available to purchase from theEllusionistwebsite. It might not go down so well with the rest of the family, however.•Hey, McFly! Hoverboard available on Kickstarter for $10,000
Clipart guide
Clippy bird ya habibi
It’s time for this week’s roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games released on Apple’s App Store.As ever, the prices provided in brackets are for the initial download only: when an app uses in-app purchases, this will be listed as (Free + IAP). No, it’s notchanging to “get”just yet.More interested in Android apps? They’re covered in a separate weeklyBest Android Apps roundup. But if it’s iOS you’re after, read on for this week’s selection.APPSStep Buy Step: A Pedometer Adventure (£1.49)This could be in the games section, but I’m classing it as a fitness app, much like its developer Six to Start’s past apps Zombies, Run! and 7 Minute Superhero Workout. Here, your real steps earn “stepps” – a virtual currency to buy virtual animals to join you on virtual travels. “A pedometer adventure,” according to the company. Clever and fun.iPhoneWorkflow (£1.99)It’s hard to describe Workflow – even its App Store listing’s “personal automation tool” phrase doesn’t quite get its potential usefulness across. It lets you create combinations of actions you do on your iOS device, then automate them. Examples: turning Safari pages into PDFs, tweeting a song that you’re listening to, and turning a contact into a homescreen icon that calls them.iPhone / iPadMickey’s Magical Maths World (Free + IAP)This is the first in a new series of educational apps for children by Disney: a collection of five mathematical mini-games hosted by Mickey, Minnie, Donald, Daisy and Goofy. They’re elegantly done, with lots of extra interactivity for kids to explore. Theres’ also a companion parental app:read more on that here.iPadPDF Office (Free + IAP)Readdle has made a succession of very-useful productivity apps: its Scanner Mini app remains the app I use whenever asked to print out, sign and then email forms, for example. This new app takes another angle: it creates editable PDF documents on your iPad, including by taking photos of physical forms and converting them.iPadbop.fm Music Player (Free)As a website, bop.fm has been trying to connect the various streaming silos: Spotify, YouTube, Deezer and so on, so that when you share a link from one with a friend, they can play that song in another. Its mobile app continues that mission, with Spotify, SoundCloud and YouTube built in at launch, and playlists to help you sort and discover music.iPhoneFitStar Yoga (Free + IAP)FitStar’s personal training app was impressive, and now there’s a companion one for yoga. It offers video guides to poses from trainer Tara Stiles, including Apple TV support to play them on a bigger screen as you work out. The app uses a subscription system: £5.49 a month or £27.99 a year.iPhone / iPadCurious Words (£1.49)This is an inventive and creative children’s app from developer Curious Hat that wants to help kids explore video. Not as viewers, but as filmmakers, shooting one-second clips in response to single words, then turning them into shareable mini-movies. It’s wonderfully fun for parents and children to share.iPhone / iPadWakie – Social Alarm Clock (Free)Waking up with a stranger can be a disorienting experience. With Wakie, at least they’re on the other end of a phone call: the app gets you to set your alarm, then wakes you up with a call from a real person: one of its other users. Apparently there are already 1.5 million of them too. And calls are automatically cut off after 60 seconds, to ensure no excessive chattering.iPhoneMySingleFriend.com (Free + IAP)Dating website My Single Friend has been around for years, but its app is only coming out now – can it hope to compete with mobile startups like Tinder? Even so, it looks very well done, with easy browsing, and the same ‘friends-as-wingmen’ theory as the site, including the ability for friends to veto unsuitable matches.iPhoneFirst Direct Saveapp (Free)Online bank First Direct wants you to open a savings account, so this is clearly marketing. Even so, it’s also got the potential to be quite useful if you find it hard saving money: it gets you to set a goal, figure out what to cut back on, and then get reminders throughout the week – including triggered by location.iPhoneSeabeard for iOS.Photograph: PRGAMESSeabeard (Free + IAP)If you ever fell in love with Animal Crossing on Nintendo devices, Seabeard is the best attempt yet at bringing its charms to iOS – albeit with plenty more added on top. It’s a piratical adventure game that sees you exploring, fishing, fighting and meeting a host of characters. It’s beautifully-designed, and like Animal Crossing, has the air of a game that opens up the more you play.iPhone / iPadPapers, Please (£3.99)This “dystopian document thriller” has won sacks of awards, and deservedly so: it’s bleak but thought-provoking, as you play a border inspector for the fictional state of Arstozka, letting immigrants in or turning them away according to your orders from above.Its nude body-scanner may have been censored, but this remains an important – and a compellingly playable – game.iPadMarvel Contest of Champions (Free + IAP)Social games firm Kabam made its name with its Hobbit and Fast and Furious games, but it’s turning its attention to Marvel now. This is a free-to-play beat ‘em up starring some very familiar characters from the Marvel universe.iPhone / iPadTales from the Borderlands (£2.99 + IAP)Episodic adventure-game maker Telltale Games is on a roll: Walking Dead, The Wolf Among Us, Game of Thrones and now this: a spin-off from console franchise Borderlands. It’s set after Borderlands 2: a fascinating new way into the world of Pandora.iPhone / iPadThe Snowman &amp; The Snowdog 2014 (£2.99)This is an annual refresh to Channel 4’s official The Snowman &amp; The Snowdog game, although unlike in 2013, there are no in-app purchases this time round. You pays your £2.99, and your children get unlimited walking in the air, swooping over London, San Francisco, Japan, China and Australia.iPhone / iPadBertram Fiddle: Episode 1 (£2.99)Another adventure game, albeit one more influenced by the classic point-and-click-and-laugh games of the Monkey Island era. It’s set in Victorian London, with a cast of quirky characters and plenty of belly-laughs around its murder-mystery plot.iPhone / iPadMaritime Kingdom (Free + IAP)Publisher Game Insight has become a dab hand at the city-building genre, with Maritime Kingdom its latest spin on the idea of building’n’battling simulations. As the name makes clear, ships are a big part of the action, from trading to questing and conquering.iPhone / iPadSneaky Sneaky (£1.99)When the word “stealth” is mentioned in connection with gaming, it tends to bring to mind very-serious games like the Metal Gear Solid and Assassin’s Creed franchises. Sneaky Sneaky is a cuter take on the idea, as you play a cartoon rogue who has to avoid detection and ambush his enemies.iPhone / iPadShakePop (Free + IAP)ShakePop is the latest release from FreshPlanet, which had a huge hit a couple of years ago with song-identification game SongPop. This is another music-related game, but more physical: you have to copy actions shown on screen in order. Like Simon Says meets dancing games, a bit. And fun with it.iPhone / iPadThe Adventure Creator (£2.49 + IAP)Finally, something that takes me back to my childhood messing around with a piece of software called The Quill, writing text adventures. This takes that idea to iPad, as you describe and connect locations, and add images and objects. You can also share the resulting adventures with other devices. It’s got potential, even if just for rose-tinted nostalgics like me.iPadThat’s this week’s recommendations, but what iOS apps have you been using? The comments section is open for your thoughts.
Digital rights management has been used to prevent everything from iTunes music being played on non-Apple devices to no-name cartridges working in your printer. Now plucky hackers have even managed to crack the DRM system on ... espresso - the Keurig 2.0 pod-based espresso machines, to be precise.Pod-based coffee systems work on a razor-blade model: sell the machine itself at a low price, or even a loss, and reap the profits on expensive, branded coffee pods. But just like with actual razors, consumers soon realised they could save money by buying no-brand coffee - or simply refilling used pods. And so, to keep the margins up, coffee manufacturers turned to DRM systems to stop customers being naughty.In a triumph for fans of cheap coffee, there is not a great deal of crossover between making delicious caffeinated drinks and complex security protocols, so the coffee DRM is a bit crap. As the how-to video atKeurigHack.comshows, the protection can be circumvented simply by cutting the lid off a pre-used pod and taping it to the sensor on the machine.AsKenneth Buckler’s tongue-in-cheek disclosureof the machine’s “vulnerability” on the Seclists security mailing list explains, “Keurig 2.0 Coffee Maker contains a vulnerability in which the authenticity of coffee pods, known as K-Cups, uses weak verification methods, which are subject to a spoofing attack through re-use of a previously verified K-Cup.“Since no fix is currently available, owners of Keurig 2.0 systems may wish to take additional steps to secure the device, such as keeping the device in a locked cabinet, or using a cable lock to prevent the device from being plugged in when not being used by an authorised user.”Yet easily bypassing the machine’s restrictions may not be the end of the story. Where DRM differs from previous attempts by manufacturers to control how their products are used is the legal protections against attempts to bypass it. In the pre-digital world, there were only patents stopping competitors from selling compatible items, and patents expire.Today, laws such as the US digital millennium copyright act make bypassing DRM mechanisms an offence, even if what they are preventing you from doing – such as watching movies on another company’s tablet, or selling coffee pods that work in another manufacturer’s machines – is perfectly legal.But do perk up: we won’t tell the coffee police if you won’t.
It’s time for our weekly roundup of the latest, greatest Android apps and games, this time from the last seven days of releases on the Google Play store.As ever, the prices provided in brackets are for the initial download only: when an app uses in-app purchases, this will be listed as (Free + IAP). Something to look for: a new section of each app’s Google Play store listing, which explains the full range of IAP.More interested in iOS apps? They’re covered in a separateBest iPhone and iPad Appsroundup, with the latest instalment due to be published later today.APPSHERE Beta (Free)Nokia’s mapping software finally makes its official way to the Google Play store, although it’s still in beta. It’s a mapping app that pulls in lots of data on shops, restaurants and other businesses on your route, while offering turn-by-turn navigation and an offline option.Pause: Curated Music Stories (Free + IAP)For music fans, Pause is excellent: a “well-curated music periodical” that gathers reviews, features and streaming audio and video from a host of sites and blogs, then serves them up in a digital magazine format updated every quarter.Humin (Free)Humin is one of the apps hoping to help you be more organised on your smartphone: in this case, by providing a replacement for your phone and contacts app. Described as being in “early beta”, its key features are a more human-like search (to help remember people who work at certain companies or live in specific places, for example). Great if your memory for names is a bit holey.Go CBBC (Free)Available in the UK, this is the official app for CBBC, the BBC’s TV channel for children older than preschool age. It’s a neatly-designed way to access games, short videos and full episodes of shows, with links to the Beeb’s iPlayer app for further viewing also built in.Indiegogo (Free)Crowdfunding service Indiegogo launched its iOS app recently, and now it’s on Android too. It’s a smart way to keep track of the campaigns you’ve pledged towards, and to see new ones that are bubbling up on the website. Plus, you can look at fully-funded campaigns that are still raising money.SimplePlanes (£1.27)Flight simulators have been popular on many devices down the years, and there’s evidence of a healthy community on mobile too. SimplePlanes looks full of promise: not only do you fly the range of planes from various eras; you get to build them first, tweaking their design to your heart’s content.PNP - Portable North Pole 2014 (Free + IAP)One for parents in the run-up to Christmas, this: Portable North Pole is a way to order video messages from Father Christmas – well, a man pretending to be him, obviously, although sorry to break it to you this way if you didn’t know – customised for their kids. The app includes an interactive advent calendar too.MSN News (Free)Microsoft has actually just released a swathe of MSN-branded apps for Android. This is one of its flagships: the news app that aggregates articles from various online publications, the Guardian included. It’ll also alert you to breaking news and help you share stories to social networks.Sarah &amp; Duck - Day at the Park (£2.99)For parents whose children are still young enough for CBeebies rather than CBBC, this is an official app for the delightful Sarah &amp; Duck show. It’s a collection of six mini-games based on Sarah and Duck’s trip to the park, from making and flying a kite to dodging through a puddle-based maze.Cryptoy (Free)Yes, this will be controversial, given that it’s an app made by surveillance agency GCHQ for 14-16 year-olds. But its motivation is clear: to celebrate historical cryptography by letting teenagers try it for themselves, with four encryption techniques included.Read more about it here.Game of Thrones for Android.Photograph: PRGAMESGame of Thrones (£3.20 + IAP)Following hot on the heels of its iOS release comes this: the latest episodic adventure from Telltale Games, which previously made the excellent Walking Dead games. This is set in the world of Game of Thrones, as you negotiate the deadly War of Five Kings. Absorbing stuff.Scrolls (Free + IAP)Otherwise known as the Mojang game that’s NOT Minecraft. This is a popular card-battling game on PC that’s now going mobile – and to Android first before iOS. There are elements of board games in the card-battling, with trading and plenty of strategic depth. And it runs cross-platform, so you can play friends on other devices.World of Warriors (Free + IAP)World of Warriors is the work of Mind Candy, the company behind children’s virtual world Moshi Monsters. This game is for an all-ages audience though: you collect and train up warriors from all periods of history, then send them off to fight and loot. It’s very fun.Marvel Contest of Champions (Free + IAP)Social games firm Kabam made its name with its Hobbit and Fast and Furious games, but it’s turning its attention to Marvel now. This is a free-to-play beat ‘em up starring some very familiar characters from the Marvel universe.Electronic Super Joy: Groove City (£3.01)A colourful, self-confessed “crazy” platform game with bags of charm, here, and certainly the first Android game I’m aware of where you play a giant robot stripper trying to “reclaim her laser-nipples”. The latest indie treat for Google-powered devices.Oddworld: Stranger’s Wrath (£3.68)A famous old games franchise reappears on Android here: an upgraded-for-modern-devices version of the shooter-cum-platformer that originally appeared on console in 2005. It’s a fine combination of wild west themes with monstery action.The Snowman &amp; The Snowdog 2014 (£2.99)This is an annual refresh to Channel 4’s official The Snowman &amp; The Snowdog game, although unlike in 2013, there are no in-app purchases this time round. You pays your £2.99, and your children get unlimited walking in the air, swooping over London, San Francisco, Japan, China and Australia.Pixel Boat Rush (£1.49)You can’t have too many fun pixel-art games, as far as I’m concerned. Pixel Boat Rush is the latest: an arcade-racer with simple controls that work well on the touchscreen, and the ability to lash out at rivals rather than simply out-race them.Inferno 2 (£1.86)Alongside pixel-art, there’s been a lot of neon on the Google Play store this year. Inferno 2 is the latest eyeball-frying action game, and it’s excellent, with more than 80 levels to twin-stick-shoot your way through, upgrading along the way.War of Tanks: Clans (Free + IAP)Finally, some tanks. This is a sequel to popular game War of Tanks, with an emphasis on online battles and multiplayer raids. There are plenty of historical tanks to customise and trundle into action, while the clans aspect should provide depth online.Those are our picks, but what about you? The comments section is open for your app recommendations this week.
Hearthstone, Blizzard’s digital collectable card game, is offering players the chance to push their luck with the launch of the third set of cards for the game, based on Warcraft’s Goblin and Gnome races.The update introduces a visually new stadium, and a long-awaited spectator mode, letting users watch other matches live from the app, which is available for PC, Mac and iPads. But the heart of the Goblins vs Gnomes update is the 123 new cards, which shake up the mechanics of the game more than ever before.Two key themes run throughout the new cards, of which 51 are neutral leaving eight class-specific cards for each of Hearthstone’s nine classes. The first are mechs, a new minion type to join the likes of murloc, pirate and beast. As with the other types, mechs offer synergy for players who manage to collect enough of the new cards, from board-wide buffs to discounts on mana costs.But the new mechs are going to be tricky for casual players to take advantage of, given the game’s free-to-play mechanics. New packs, of five cards each, cost £0.99 or 100 gold, the in-game currency (which can be earned at a rate of around 350 gold a week). While a fair chunk of the new set revolves around mechs, it will still take a hefty investment for players to get a critical mass of the cards to build a deck around – and unlike previous minion types, there is just a single mech included in the basic set of free cards that come with the game.The other trend throughout the pack is an increasing focus on randomness, one of Hearthstone’s strengths when compared to the traditional card games such as Magic: The Gathering from which it derives. Ogre ninjas have a 50% chance to attack the wrong enemy; piloted vehicles eject a random minion on death; and Madder Bomber simply deals damage randomly split across the entire board when it’s played. Perhaps the most impressive example of that is Unstable Portal, a card which draws a random minion and reduces its play cost. Literally any minion from the entire 500-plus card pool can be drawn, something which simply wouldn’t be possible to replicate in a tabletop game.Back when Hearthstone first came out of beta,I criticised the gamefor failing to fully explore the possibilities of a fully digital CCG. Goblins vs Gnomes shows Blizzard making increasingly confident steps in that direction, and if they fully embrace it, the possibilities are endless.But just as comforting is the fact that the developers haven’t fallen into the trap of serving just the hardcore players. With an international community, and a number of tournaments offering large cash prizes, playing Hearthstone at the top level is serious business. With that in mind, as well as the knowledge that serious players are likely to be big spenders, and the most vocal in the community, it would have been easy for Blizzard to introduce a slate of dull but consistent card abilities.Instead, they showed that they still have a sense of fun. Some of the cards are unlikely to ever see play in top-flight competition, where players try to craft decks which will result in consistent outcomes. But for more casual participants, there’s a certain sort of joy in watching your luck come together as a Madder Bomber deals all six of his damage on the one big enemy threatening your game.
The cyberattack that crippled Sony Pictures, led to theft of confidential data and leak of movies on the internet would have challenged almost any cyber security measures, the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has said.The FBI’s investigation into the attack has found that the level of sophistication of the software used by the hackers was “extremely high” and that the attacks were “organised and certainly persistent.”“In speaking with Sony and separately, the Mandiant security provider, the malware that was used would have slipped or probably got past 90% of internet defences that are out there today in private industry and [would have] challenged even state government,” Joseph Demarest, assistant director of the FBI’s cyber division told a US Senate hearing.‘We’re still working very hard on that’While security analysts have said that preventing sophisticated and well-funded cyber criminals from breaking into a company is very hard indeed, researchers have criticised Sony Pictures for its poor data security, which allegedly saw login details stored in unencrypted spreadsheets.But Demarest wouldn’t be drawn on who carried out the attacks. “I won’t touch on the attribution piece because we’re still working very hard on that,” he said.The FBI assistant director explained that the skills necessary to carry out the attack were not limited to government-funded units and that cyber criminals also have the level of sophistication needed.A hacking group calling itself Guardians of Peace (Gop) claimed responsibility for the hack on 24 November.A link between Gop and North Korea has been muted over Pyongang’s reaction to the Sony Pictures film The Interview, which depicts an assassination attempt on Kim Jong-un.North Koreadenied involvement, despite calling it a “righteous deed”, but some security researchers are convinced that the attacks carry the hallmarks of a state-sponsored assault.The FBIpoured doubton links with North Korea saying that there was “no attribution” to Pyongang.•Hackers ‘may attack other film studios after leak of Sony Pictures’ data’
British surveillance agency GCHQ has launched an app teaching children to understand “basic encryption techniques”, despite its director having criticised technology firms for making more advanced tools available to their users.Cryptoy is a free app for Android tablets, with an iPad version expected to launch in 2015. It teaches children about four encryption techniques – shift, substitution, Vigenère and Enigma – as well as the history behind their use.“This fun and educational app teaches you about the mysterious world of cryptography. It helps you to understand ciphers and keys, and enables you to create encrypted messages that you can share with your friends,” explains its listing on the Google Play store.The app is aimed at Key Stage 4 students in the UK – those aged between 14 and 16 years old – and was originally developed by students on a year’s placement at GCHQ, for the Cheltenham Science Festival.Its release is part of the British government’s drive to encourage more children to study STEM subjects – science, technology, engineering and maths – at GCSE level and beyond.“Building maths and cyber skills in the younger generation is essential for maintaining the cyber security of the UK and growing a vibrant digital economy. That is why I am keen for GCHQ to give something back through its work with school and universities,”said the agency’s director Robert Hannigan, as the app launched.“In particular, the Cryptoy app is a colourful, interactive way for students and their teachers to explore the fascinating world of cryptography. The app was developed by GCHQ’s industrial placement students and trialled at a number of science fairs. I hope it will inspire further study of this key topic, which has played such an important part in our past and is an invaluable part of our future.”Hannigan recently sparked controversywith his first public intervention in the surveillance debate since taking over as GCHQ director, when he attacked US technology companies as “the command and control networks of choice” for terrorists when they make techniques for encrypting and/or anonymising communications available.Facebook recentlymade it easier for users of the Tor anonymising service to access the social networkby launching a .onion address, while messaging appWhatsApp is introducing end-to-end encryption, andApple has made encryption a part of its iMessage service.Encouraging children to learn about the history of cryptography – Enigma included – while pushing back against technology companies’ moves to introduce end-to-end encryption is not necessarily a contradiction.However, one side-effect of Cryptoy may be to stimulate students to ask questions not just about historic encryption, but its modern variants: why technology companies are introducing them, and the role played in that process by agencies like GCHQ.Cryptoy does not request permission to Android devices’ cameras, location or contacts information. In fact, the only permission its Google Play entry lists is “Other” – a category thataccording to Googlemay include “custom settings provided by your device manufacturer or application-specific permissions”.•Experts call for return to human intelligence after Snowden
Yes, readers with a good memory for monkeys may have noticed that the image aboveisn’tthe image that went viral earlier this year. With a new row blowing up over whether the image can be copyrighted or not, I’m choosing to play it safe.Still, it’s an interesting case. Public Knowledge has received an email from photographer David Slater criticisingits blog post about the image, as well as its use of the picture – taken by a grinning monkey in 2011.Slater argues that the article was “unbalanced and unfair and is infringing my publicity rights and rights to commercialize the image/s”, and asks to see “any evidence you have of any license you have purchases for the use of my image”.Sherwin Siy, who wrote the original blog post, is unimpressed, publishing the email he sent to Slater in reply, pointing toa ruling in August by the US Copyright Officethat only works created by humans could be copyrighted under US law.“I do not believe that you hold a valid copyright in that particular image. This allows us to reproduce the image without first seeking your permission, or listing you as a contributing factor to its creation,”writes Siy, before suggesting that even if that wasn’t the case, using the image in a post discussing it would count as fair use.What do you think of this row – not just in itself, but the wider issues around it of copyright and fair-use when sharing images found online?Human comments are welcome, but if your monkey seizes the keyboard to give its views, I’ll have to get the Guardian’s lawyers involved to establish who owns the resulting intellectual property...What else? Some links to think about today:Ed Sheeran defends Spotify from its criticsHe may be friends with Taylor Swift, but he respectfully disagrees with her views on the streaming service. “For me, Spotify is not even a necessary evil. It helps me do what I want to do,” Sheeran told BBC News. “I think Spotify are paying the right amount. We’re just not seeing it, because the labels aren’t making as much as they used to, so they want to keep a lot of the money that Spotify give them, and not pay it out to us. Which is the truth.”Apple relents on Transmit file-sharingApple had beencriticised by developersfor blocking a file management app called Transmit from sharing files to Dropbox, Box and even iCloud Drive. Now it has told developer Panic that it can put the feature back in. “Late Wednesday we got a nice call from Apple. We have resubmitted Transmit iOS with “Send To” (iCloud Drive et al.) restored,” they explained in a tweet.Could we 3D-print an artificial mind?“The convergence of technologies such as 3-D printing, advanced processor architectures, and nanotechnology are opening up radical new possibilities in how we might construct brain-inspired computers in the future,” writes Andrew Maynard on Slate.com. “If what we think of as the human mind is the product of a biological machine (albeit a complex one), there is little to suggest that we won’t one day have the ability to emulate it...”Google’s Chromecast dongle now has a guest mode“You’re having friends over and before you know it, a battle has ensued in your living room over who can show the funniest YouTube video. Now, it’s even easier for your friends to cast to your TV without first having to connect to your WiFi.” Maybe I’m just being a grumpy control-freak, but: while you’re under MY roof, you’ll watch MY funny YouTube videos.YouTube testing a built-in GIF creatorAnd while you’re at it, you’ll watch MY funny YouTube GIFs. Again and again and again and again...What else? The comments section is open for your thoughts on the stories above, as well as other links you’d like us to talk about.
It's Friday.
China’s rising tech star Xiaomi has hit a snag in its plan to challenge Apple and Samsung. Its expansion into the fast growing Indian smartphone market has been halted by a patent dispute.The Delhi High Court has ordered Xiaomi and its retail partner Flipkart to stop sales in India until 5 February, after Swedish telecoms company Ericsson filed a patent infringement suit against the Chinese manufacturer.Xiaomi is “restrained from manufacturing, assembling, importing, selling or advertising” its smartphones in India according to court documents released to the Economic Times. Indian customs have been ordered to block the import of smartphones or other devices that potentially infringe on Ericsson patents until further notice.‘India is a very important market for Xiaomi’The case will see a further hearing in February and could open Xiaomi up to additional patent disputes as it attempts to expand beyond China. It is the first patent challenge faced by the company, which has been criticised for its mimicry of rival products, and is described as “China’s Apple” by industry watchers.“India is a very important market for Xiaomi and we will respond promptly as needed and in full compliance with India’s laws,” said Manu Jain, head of Xiaomi India, in a statement. He also explained that the company had yet to receive official notification of the court ruling.To maintain its current rate of expansion, Xiaomi is expected to strike a deal, rather than fight the ruling.From selling its first smartphone in 2011, Xiaomi became theworld’s third largest smartphone manufacturerin October with 6% of global shipments according to data from research firm Strategy Analytics and IDC. The company has found success in China, but has seen resistance to its expansion outside of its home country.India recently warned its military not to use the Chinese smartphones over fears of data snooping, prompting Xiaomi to state that it never collects user data without permission and to set up an Indian data centre.‘Inspired by great products’Apple’s chief designer Jony Ive also recently hit out at Xiaomi’s alleged copying, dismissing suggestions of flattery saying “I think it is really straightforward. It is theft and it is lazy. I don’t think it is OK at all.”But Xiaomi has made efforts to be more appealing to the west, hiring key executives from Google, including the outspoken Brazilian vice president of Android, Hugo Barra, who became Xiaomi’s head of international sales.“Our designers, our engineers, are inspired by great products and by great design out there. And frankly who in today’s world isn’t?” Barra said at the WSJD Live conference in Laguna Beach, California.Xiaomi has announced plans to expand this year to more than a dozen fast growing markets, including Malaysia, Indonesia, India, Thailand, Russia, Turkey, Brazil and Mexico.‘India is expected to more than double’“The smartphone market in India is expected to more than double between now and 2018 and much of this is expected to be driven by the migration from feature phones to smartphones,” explained Kiran Kumar research manager of IDC India. “The user expectations are simple – a best-in-class user experience at affordable prices.”The Indian market will prove crucial for Xiaomi if it is to beat Apple, which has twice the market share of the Chinese manufacturer, while Samsung sits way out in front with just under 25% of global sales.“India is becoming our largest overseas market. Within five or 10 years, we have the opportunity to become the number one smartphone company in the world,” Xiaomi founder and chief executive Lei Junrecently said.Analysts and smartphone manufacturers will watch the case in India as a marker for how Xiaomi may fair against similar suits. Apple in particular is likely to be highly resistant to the Chinese manufacturer’s expansion into its key markets.Apple and Samsung have been embroiled in bitter patent disputes for years. That situation is not dissimilar to what Xiaomi could face if it launches into the world’s second biggest smartphone market, the US.•China rising: Xiaomi becomes world’s third biggest smartphone manufacturer•Apple to Xiaomi: being number one is easy to say, more difficult to do
The vast majority of countries are failing to tackle gender-based online violence, according to the World Wide Web Foundation’s 2014–15Web Index.The report, a comprehensive look at the web’s contribution to social, economic and political progress across 86 countries, concludes that in 74% of the nations examined, including many developed nations, “law enforcement agencies and the courts are failing to take appropriate actions” in situations where the web is used to commit acts of gender-based violence.In too many countries, the Foundation says, there isn’t clear legal protection, either through the application of existing laws or the development of new ones, against gendered violence online. Additionally, neither training nor clear guidelines were provided to the police and judiciary, and the lack of arrest and prosecution of perpetrators implies that strong enforcement is not taking place.The report also cites the proliferation of “revenge porn”, cyberstalking, and online sexual harassment as examples of ways that gender inequality can manifest as violence online.Countries are ranked based on the economic, social and political benefit that they gain from the web. The UK is placed fourth after Denmark, Finland and Norway. Sweden rounds out the top five, and the US comes in sixth place. In 2013, Sweden was first in the world, with the UK third and US fourth.“As the global economy becomes more digitally driven, countries’ ability to harness the Web for the common good may also start to influence how equal or unequal, as well as how rich or poor, they become,” the report argues. “Nordic policy-makers have been quick to adopt and promote the free Internet — and open access to information — as a 21st century public good. Others, as this year’s findings show, need to move fast to catch up.”Freedom and surveillanceOne reason for the slide in the UK and US positions in the ranking isEdward Snowden’s revelationsabout the extent of surveillance online. The result is that the proportion of the countries whose legal safeguards for privacy were judged “weak to non-existent” rose from 63% to 83% – and the UK, US, Australia, Canada and France all scored below three out of ten, placing them alongside China, Russia and Turkey.In contrast, Brazil is held as a “beacon of hope”. The country’s Marco Civil law enshrines a right to a neutral, free and private web for all Brazilians, while also requiring the government to ensure equal access to connectivity and digital skills. “It arises from that country’s bitter experience of authoritarian rule, and reflects fresh determination to make the internet an instrument of emancipation rather than control,” the report’s authors write.Set up by web inventor Tim Berners-Lee in 2008, the Word Wide Web Foundation is devoted to improving the quality of, and access to, the web. Speaking about the report, Berners-Lee said, “It’s time to recognise the internet as a basic human right. That means guaranteeing affordable access for all, ensuring internet packets are delivered without commercial or political discrimination, and protecting the privacy and freedom of web users regardless of where they live.“In an increasingly unequal world, the web can be a great leveller — but only if we hardwire the rights to privacy, freedom of expression, affordable access and net neutrality into the rules of the game,” Berners-Lee concluded.
Award-winning gamePapers, Pleaseis about to make its debut on Apple’s iPad, but nudity will not be included after Apple rejected the app for containing “pornographic content”.Developer Lucas Pope revealed the rejection as he announced that an amended version of Papers, Please will be released on Apple’s App Store on Friday 12 December.The game, originally released for PC and Mac computers in August 2013, puts the player in the role of a border-controls clerk, inspecting the papers of people trying to enter the fictional country of Arstotzka. Itwon the Best Strategy and Simulation categoryat the 2014 Bafta video game awards.Papers, Please has been critically acclaimed for its ability to make players think about immigration issues, with gameplay that becomes distinctly bleaker as each new element is introduced, as well as the way it shows the impact of mistakes on the main character’s home life.The feature that sparked Apple’s initial rejection of the iPad version was its body scanner, used to detect concealed weapons on travellers, but which also shows a cartoon representation of their bodies. Pope tweeted that the “full nudity” option had been removed at Apple’s request.The iPad version has no full nudity option for the search scanner photos. Apple rejected that build for containing &quot;pornographic content.&quot;&mdash; Lucas Pope (@dukope)December 11, 2014News of that initial rejection has sparked a debate on Twitter, given that the nudity was firmly in context – if anything, it added to the game’s exploration of the ethics of immigration controls – and also because of a longer-term discussion about why games are subject to stricter rules than other types of content.In January 2013,Apple rejected a game called Endgame: Syriawhich was based on the civil war in that country, citing its political content as the reason. Another app satirising the North Korean authorities, Joyful Executions,was rejected in August 2013.Apple has laid down its guidelines over apps content in itsApp Store Review Guidelines. “We view Apps different than books or songs, which we do not curate. If you want to criticize a religion, write a book. If you want to describe sex, write a book or a song, or create a medical App,” they explain.“We will reject Apps for any content or behavior that we believe is over the line. What line, you ask? Well, as a Supreme Court Justice once said, ‘I’ll know it when I see it’. And we think that you will also know it when you cross it.”Porn star Rocco Siffredi’s app was approved by Apple.Photograph: App StoreHowever, Pope may have good reason to question how that line varies between different kinds of apps.While Papers, Please’s body-scanner feature was seen as overstepping the mark for “pornographic content”,an app released this week for porn star Rocco Siffredi– approved by Apple – enables fans to digitally insert their face into a scene of a woman being taken from behind by Siffredi, then share it with friends.When a Bafta-winning game’s in-context nudity earns a rejection while a real-life porn star’s simulated sex-photos app sails through the approval process, it is unsurprising that Apple’s approval policies continue to provoke the odd raised eyebrow.•GTA V is not subversive – but these games are
A new app allowing users to sell anything to anyone in complete privacy has been launched, opening a new front in the fast-developing war between coders and the law.Bitmarkets, an opensource app available for download atvoluntary.net, is the latest in a series of technical innovations by digital activists who want to prevent surveillance over commerce and communications.Bitmarkets allows users to post advertisements for products for sale or request items and services they want to buy, and broadcasts these to all connected users. Deals are struck between individuals, with the site taking no commission.Payments are processed privately between traders and customers using bitcoin, meaning no simple money trail can be followed in the event of any criminality. Funds are held in a type of escrow and use built-in bitcoin signature technology to release funds when both parties are satisfied upon succesful completion of a deal.With no central entity controlling the market, there are no limits on what can be sold. The site has just a handful of listings and a similar number of users.The developers of the app say their aims are explicitly political. “We don’t like the possibility of a world where every transaction you make over your entire lifetime will be tracked,” Steve Dekorte, the lead developer on the projecttold Bitcoin news site, Coindesk. “We feel this is a basic human rights issue.”A graphic designer on the app, Chris Robinson, in anessay posted to Reddit,rejected claims the software would encourage criminality.“What about drugs, guns, pornography etc?”. This is the first thing out of most peoples mouths whenever you bring up the possibility of having a market that no one entity owns or controls. Yes, some people will probably use these types of markets for bad things, but 99.9999% of people will not.”Robinson said that the software will instead enable free trade without institutional interference. “It is the first time in history where anyone anywhere can trade with anyone else without asking permission,” he wrote.“Think of all the billions of people worldwide who are currently locked out of financial services who would be able to use these [markets], improving their own lives and their local communities.”Built on BitTorrent and TorA spokesman for the Cyber Crime division of the National Crime Unit told the Guardian that users of the software who broke the law should expect capture.“We are alive to the fast pace of technological change, and the fact that cybercriminals will seek to exploit new and emerging technology for their own ends. We and our partners have the ability to investigate, identify and locate those who believe they can anonymously engage in serious and organised criminality online.”Bitmarkets differs from current online illegal marketplaces because is no central server where the site is hosted that investigators could physically locate and attack. The marketplace is decentralised – meaning each user connected to the app is part of the market’s technical architecture.The app is built on the framework of an anonymous messaging service, Bitmessage, which takes its inspiration from BitTorrent software. In the BitTorrent protocol, files – generally pirated, copyright works such as films and music – are downloaded in a swarm by users who connect and broadcast to each other, “seeding” or uploading the file in small chunks until each downloader has a complete copy.With Bitmarkets, that decentralisation means the market is hosted by potentially milions of users in hundreds of countries. Communications between parties can be encrypted, and all internet traffic the app generates is encrypted, as it uses anonymisingTor softwareby default.The Bitmarkets app is similar in functionality toOpenBazaar, another decentralised market app. That software launched in August but did not offer native Tor encryption as standard until October.The launch of the Bitmarkets software, available for now only on Mac OSX, follows November’sOperation Onymous, a co-ordinated worldwide darkweb takedown that shuttered dozens of sites selling illegal drugs and other services hosted on sites that hid their whereabouts by using Tor.The chief target of that campaign was the latest iteration of the Silk Road, the notorious drug-dealing site that replaced the original site that was captured on an Icelandic server by the FBI in October 2013. The trial of the alleged owner-operator of that site, 29-year-old Texan, Ross Ulbricht, is in January 2015 in New York City.His alleged successor,Blake Benthall, 26, was arrested in San Francisco in Novemberand is also awaiting trial.•US to sell bitcoins worth $19.8m seized from alleged Silk Road owner
Developers and observers suspect there is a power struggle within Apple after a number of high-profile third-party iPhone apps using iOS 8’s extra functionality were approved - and then rejected for unexplained reasons.In one case, the rejected app used a technique that was shown off by Apple’s software chief, Craig Federighi, at the Worldwide Developer Conference in June as showcasing the new capabilities of the software for the iPhone and iPad.Developers contacted by the Guardian are increasingly discontented, and nervous that they could fall foul of the “unwritten rules” if they include such functions. That is holding back development, “which doesn’t help anybody,” one said.Among the apps affected are the calculator app PCalc, writing app Drafts, FTP program Transmit, and one called Launcher which specifically aimed to use the new functionalities to launch apps or call contacts.The unease among the developers at apparently capricious rejections from the App Store is in stark contrast to optimism expressed after Apple’s software executives showed off those features at WWDC. Those included a “Today view” notification centre pane in which users could add “widgets” linked to a parent app, and “sharing sheets” to an editable set of services from any app.Retaining goodwill among third-party developers matters to Apple as it aims to bolster its hugely profitable iPhone in the smartphone market, even as the installed base of Android phones, and payments to developers for it, expands.At present, the App Store pays out significantly more to developers than Google’s Play Store, even though the installed base of iOS users is only about half that of Android users when tablets are included.Caught in a pincer of disagreementsApple declined to comment to the Guardian on the reasons for the removals and reinstatements of apps, or on the suggestion of conflict within the company over the use of iOS capabilities.But developers appear to be caught in a pincer of disagreements between three Apple executives, suggests Ben Thompson of theStratecheryconsultancy: Craig Federighi, is in charge of iOS 8 engineering, Eddy Cue, in charge of App Store promotion and editorial, and Phil Schiller, who is believed to be in charge of the App Store review team.The latest to suffer is Panic Software, whichcomplainedon Monday that it had been told by Apple to remove an option to save files into iCloud Drive, the cloud storage option introduced with iOS 8 in September - even though doing so would also block it from saving files to other services too.“If the issue is just iCloud Drive, why did we remove the other destinations? We had no choice,” wrote Panic’s team. “iCloud Drive exists in this [sharing] sheet… [which] is 100% controlled by iOS - we can’t touch it.”The Guardian understands that Panic will be allowed to reinstate sharing - but that only raises the question of why it was stopped in the first place. Apple declined to comment to the Guardian on the banning or reinstatement of the functionality.The problem echoes the experience of James Thomson, a Scottish developer who runsTLA Systems, in November. As author of the calculator app PCalc, he was told that the calculator “widget” he had added to the “Today” pane -broke the App Store rules.Then within days the decision over PCalc was reversed - but not before Thomson had fretted about the impact of having to rewrite the app for no reward.The Guardian understands that the reversal over PCalc was the result of internal discussions at Apple where the initial rejection by the App Store team was overruled by executives.Thomson told the Guardian that he thinks the sheer scale of the App Store may be part of the problem: “I saw estimates a few years ago of over a thousand new apps a day, and that has to be significantly higher now. So when you are trying to get an OS release out the door, and everybody is submitting their updates at once for review, I imagine that’s going to be a difficult problem to solve.”But he said that the recent examples of post-approval rejections seemed to be “breaking newly created and unwritten rules.”Craig Federighi on-stage at Apple’s WWDC event in June.Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesSince Thomson’s experience, other examples have surfaced: earlier this month Greg Pierce, developer of Agile Tortoise’s writing tool Drafts, wastold to remove buttonsfrom a “Today” widget that had enabled people to quickly formulate new drafts inside the pane.Pierce was told the “Today” pane is “for information presentation only” - a statement flatly contradicted not only by dozens of widgets available with apps on the Store, but by the presentation which Apple’s software chief Craig Federighi himself gave at WWDC, where he showed off the “Today” widget functionality by showing an eBay widget that let him view the progress of an auction - and then bid higher.“I’m bidding on a guitar,” Federighi told the crowd. “Apparently I’m being outbid. But I can submit a leading bid right in notification center.” (However, the official eBay app for iOS 8 does not have a “Today” widget.)Thomson comments: “The unwritten rules seem to actively conflict - you can’t have buttons [in Draft], but you can if you’re a calculator [like PCalc]?”Separately, seeing Federighi show off that functionality prompted Greg Gardner to create an app called Launcher - which let users call a contact or launch a specific app directly from the Today pane. The app was even featured on the App Store. It gives iOS the same functionality that has long been available on Google’s Android to create a “shortcut” to an immediate action.But then Gardner was told it would have to be withdrawn, and could not be reinstated: “the best way I can explain the reason why they don’t want Launcher’s functionality to exist on iOS is because it doesn’t meet their vision for how iOS devices should work,” Gardnerwrote on Monday. “They felt that they needed to make an example of [Launcher] in order to get the word out to developers that its functionality is not acceptable”.Apple’s non-compliance notice for Launcher.Marco Arment, a vocal critic of Apple’s inconsistencies, pointed out that the company had evenbroken its own guidelinesin the App Store rules by using push notifications for a promotion of its (RED) anti-Aids scheme on 1 December. “Regardless of the cause, this [notification] is clearly a promotion,” Arment wrote.However Dave Verwer, of Shiny Development, argues that iOS 8 expanded the platform “to an extent we haven’t really seen before”, and that the aftermath tends to be “a higher than normal number of questionable decisions like this.” He points to the introduction of in-app purchases in September 2012: “the news was full of apps that were caught out by the new rules, both written ones and unwritten ones.”Lou Miranda, an enterprise iOS strategist, suggested on Twitter that the developers needed to look past the simple capabilities of the OS. “Devs can’t just look at stated rules,” hesaid. “Ask yourself: why would or wouldn’t Apple like this app? What is the purpose of a Today extension [widget]?” Apple “has always been very clear” about not supporting app launchers, he said.Even so some see deeper internal conflict in the latest run of rejections. Joe Cieplinksi, creative director atBombing Brain Interactive, which writes apps for iOS and Apple’s Mac platform,commentedon his blog that the latest spate indicate to him that “there’s clearly a conflict within Apple going on. I simply can’t believe that Craig Federighi’s team built all those wonderful new APIs into iOS 8 and didn’t intend for us to do anything interesting with them.”He suggests that “I expect one of two things to happen in the coming months. Either the crazy rejections settle down or stop, or a high profile executive goes on gardening leave.”At Stratechery, Thompson suggests that some of the resistance to the new ideas being used in iOS 8 - which introduces many Android-style features, including the ability to add third-party keyboards - may come from Schiller or his marketing team, though he adds that he has no proof of it.Risks of a backlashNeil Cybart, a former Wall Street analyst who has now set up his own Apple analysis company, commented in an email that “The biggest risk from developer backlash is that we don’t know what apps aren’t getting built as a result of frustration with Apple’s policies, not necessarily that iOS users are switching to other platforms (which there is no evidence that is the case).”Cybart added that “I don’t think Apple’s motives are that sinister, and instead a cat and mouse game is being played with developers where Apple looks at how it’s doing in the marketplace, and only then thinks about these issues and whether it is being too strict with developers.”PCalc’s Thomson says Apple needs to sort its rules out. “The current fear surrounding things like widgets means that developers are taking a wait-and-see approach, and deferring [use of] those features until it’s clearer. If developers don’t know what the rules are from one day to the next, they are going to avoid doing anything remotely interesting, and that isn’t good for anybody.”However he thinks it is unlikely that iOS developers will immediately jump ship to Android. “While it’s hard to sell paid apps on iOS, it’s much harder doing so on Android. I know developers who do both, and anecdotally they were reporting numbers like 90% of sales coming from iOS. Obviously, if things continue to get worse, people may reconsider. But I don’t think the Android grass is looking that green yet.”He warns though that the uncertainty could hold back apps for Apple’s Watch, due for release next year, for which developers already have the software kit.“The implication of these post-approval rejections is that Apple is going to be very strict on the Watch from the beginning. I always try and have something ready for day one of any new Apple product or release, but I am currently wondering if it’s better to wait and see what happens.”
Sony Pictures is employing hacking techniques in an attempt to prevent computer users from downloading its stolen data from file-sharing websites, according to reports.Technology siteRecodeclaims the movie studio is using Amazon Web Services (AWS), the cloud computing platform that underpins Netflix, Amazon’s store and other streaming and retail brands. The AWS platform provides access to hundreds of computers located in Asia, which Sony is allegedly using to bombard sites where its stolen data is being made available.The method is called a distributed denial of service (ddos) attack, which attempts to overload the websites of the target and prevent internet users from accessing it.Hacked turned hackersDDoS is a technique commonly used by hackers to sabotage company services, but has also been used by movie studios attempting toprevent people downloading pirated versionsof films from file sharing sites.“The AWS acceptable usage policy explicitly prohibits initiating denial of service attacks from their service; it’s unlikely that Amazon would let this activity continue,” said Tim Erlin, director of security and risk at Tripwire. “Taking the step to ‘hack back’ against perceived legitimate targets, based on their own assessment of guilt, presents a myriad of potential legal problems.”The confidential data stolen in the attack includes five Sony Pictures films, all the users names and passwords for Sony Pictures Twitter and Facebook accounts and pay details for top executives and movie stars.Entire email archives of several key Sony employees were also included in the leak, which has sparked rows within Hollywood after heated private exchanges have been made public.Sony has not confirmed the validity of the files leaked onto the internet, and has not yet responded to requests for comment.The attack, which crippled the computers of Sony Pictures across its US and international offices, has been linked with North Korea over the release of Seth Rogan’s new film The Interview that depicts an assassination attempt on Kim Jong-un.The US Federal Bureau of Investigation recently stated that ithas found no linkwith North Korea. The countrydenied involvement, but called the hack a “righteous deed” after previously threatening “merciless counter-measures” should Sony Pictures release The Interview.•Angelina Jolie called ‘minimally talented spoiled brat’ in hacked Sony emails•Sony Pictures hack: how much damage can North Korea’s cyber army do?•Did North Korea’s notorious Unit 121 cyber army hack Sony Pictures?
Disney has launched the first of its new Imagicademy series of educational apps, accompanied by a separate app for parents that aims to help them track their children’s learning.Mickey’s Magical Maths Worldhas launched first for Apple’s iPad tablet, with Android devices to follow in 2015 in the series, which is aimed at 3-8 year-old children.Future apps in the Imagicademy series will focus on art and creative play, science, reading and social skills, based on brands including Frozen and Doc McStuffins.“The focus is on creativity and imagination through kids doing and making,” Jeff Sellinger, senior vice president of Disney Learning, told the Guardian. “This is uniquely Disney, with the stories and characters that kids already love, combined with learning objectives that were developed with experts.”The first Imagicademy app is free to download, and includes five sections focusing on early maths skills including counting, sorting and simple addition and subtraction.Children can try each world, but to unlock all their features, parents will pay £2.99 per section or £13.99 for all five via in-app purchase.“We wanted kids to be able to explore each of the apps, and for each world it will be one purchase, not multiple purchases where you keep buying stuff. Buy it once, and you’ve got it,” said Sellinger.Mickey’s Magical Maths World’s release comes alongside the launch ofDisney Imagicademy Parents, a companion app for iPhone and iPad. Its features include a news feed of their children’s creations and achievements in the Imagicademy apps.“It’s truly a family experience. The creativity of children in the apps gets shared back to parents in the parent application, so they can not only see what their child is making, but the learning objectives they’ve been experiencing,” said Sellinger.“We’re trying to create a conversation between parent and child: it’s like the difference between getting a letter home from school that says what your child is making and doing, versus seeing their portfolio.”The Imagicademy parental app provides a feed of children’s creations and achievements.Disney is not the first company to explore the idea of parental dashboards for educational apps, although Imagicademy is the most high-profile.Fingerprint Digital launched its service in 2011, for example, while fellow US startupKidaptive’s Leo’s Pad Enrichment Program appand its parental companion Learner Mosaic launched earlier this month.Sellinger stressed that Disney’s parental app does not require children to be using the Imagicademy apps. It’s being pitched as a source of ideas for physical and creative play in the real world too.“We’ll have tons of content: articles, interviews, activities, printables, and the ability to comment between parents. This has value for a parent whether they ever download any of the other apps or not,” he said.“But if they have the apps, we are using the creative output from the child as a way to start the dialogue: and for mum or dad to be able to see the things that their child has explored, then take it a step further with physical activities.”How does Mickey’s Magical Maths World shape up? It’s clear that a lot of craft has gone into the first app in the series: not just into the five maths mini-games, but into the menus that provide access to them.Well, less menus, and more interactive environments: children swipe between the five worlds, and can happily amuse themselves tapping on characters and objects to see what happens. Meanwhile, items that they have created within the individual sections – rockets and robots – appear here too.Children collect digital badges for their achievements within the app, and are encouraged to look for easter eggs: jumping in a muddly puddle on one world gets their robot progressively dirtier, for example.Sellinger showed a preview of the next app, Mickey’s Magical World of Arts, which is due to be released in January. Its sections include music-making, building designing and a feature where children can not only draw and colour in their own 2D character, but also digitally insert it into a range of scenes from Disney films.That will be followed by Frozen World of Science in April, although Disney’s plans for Imagicademy also go beyond apps. There will also be books and toys, including “smart toy” plush toys due to go on sale in the US in summer 2015.“It’s got an operating system inside it,” said Sellinger, showing a demonstration video of a Mickey Mouse using voice recognition technology to listen to a child reading a book, and provide interjections at the appropriate moments. When they read out a line about a rocket, for example, the toy says “Wow! A rocket? Where’s it going?”Many of Imagicademy’s features have been tried before. The robot-making and character creation sections of the first two apps brought children’s publisherToca Boca’s Toca Robot Labs and Toca Hair Salon apps to mind, for example, while Outfit7 (of Talking Tom Cat fame) has been experimenting with voice recognition and connected toys.Nobody yet has blended education, entertainment and technology as ambitiously as Imagicademy though, while Disney should have the marketing clout to get its apps onto parents’ devices where smaller publishers often struggle to cut through app store clutter.It may need that clout, given the price: £13.99 isn’t a lot in the wider scheme of children’s entertainment – the same as a Skylanders figure or a recent movie DVD – but it’s a bold move in the world of childrens’ apps, which seems to have settled at £1.99 or £2.49 for even the most well-crafted products.Then again, Disney will hope that the free-to-try nature of the Imagicademy apps will give it a shot at convincing parents to stump up more. That could even benefit other publishers, if it convinces more parents that in-app purchases can be used ethically in children’s apps.Imagicademy is also part of a wider trend of big children’s/family brands doubling down on education in their digital products.Expect to see brands like Disney, Lego and Sesame Street continuing to experiment and innovate in 2015, along with app-born brands like Angry Birds, and a bubbling pot of startups that has spawned the likes of Toca Boca, Kidaptive,Night Zookeeper,Hopster,Originator,Tynkerand more.“Apps are a great way for kids to learn through doing and making,” said Sellinger. That seems like the right blend, combined with creativity and imagination.”•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
It’s important to me to seek out games that say something powerful about aspects of my life. This year, I have been playing the 2013 gameQueers In Love At The End Of The Worldwhile traveling a lot,meeting and embedding with game developers.Written by Anna Anthropy using the interactive fiction tool Twine, Queers is a game that evokes an itinerant life better than any other I’ve played. It is effectively an interactive love story, but there’s a 10-second timer ticking away in the corner of the screen, limiting the narrative to quick, stolen moments.For me, verse is the best way to interpret the clipped, painful cutoffs of the game’s timing mechanism.I first playedQueerswhenIn Queens whenIn the UES whenIt’s raining like Max Payne and youYou msg ‘I’m going to buy an appleDo you~?’Our skin was wetThe beer was wetDark Souls II wasI want to tell you that Dark Souls II‘It’s our bastard childIt’s our - ’You kiss her:Softly.Slowly.Fiercely.Hungrily.DarkIt’s the end of the worldHumid and torrentialWe are alone on edgeWe do not sleepYou cannotAnd I don’t want toWe never dressThere’s no timeI playedQueersCentral ParkIn the sun weIn shades weCastles in ScotlandThere are more castles in Scotland thanCentral Park couples butHands in grassWe don’t haveThis isn’tYou kiss him:Softly.Slowly.Fiercely.Hungrily.I playedQueerswhenIn QueensIn JFK securityI played by text whenThe textCome backThe textI miss youIIIThe world endsThe world endsThe sunset over QueensPlanes over QueensThere isn’tSecurity search meBecause I’mNot from fear but IThe bomb in my chestHas noTimeMotherfucker never loved usTo stare, naked and human, at that timerThat tyrannical timer ofQueersAnd wish to become a timewitch to manipulate time and spaceBecome superhuman to tear open a rift to exist in the ether of tomorrow and all timeTo stop time and all the words and the shift of existence to look at youTo look at your face by the subway stop and urge you:Suggest something impossibleSuggest something wonderfulSuggest that we eat the sun or fuck the windSuggest that we set fire to music--But you look at that symbol of limits and say, cowed:I can’t come to the airportAmsterdamI playQueerswhenMalaysiaThere isn’t time toTokyoTokyoOver timezonesThe emails orIMs toHow do I writeSingaporeWhy isn’t there aI playQueerswhenIn the new sunrise over Queens5am dinerTake CareThere shouldn’t be time toBrooklynThere isn’tKyratI playQueerswhenIt dawns in BrooklynBy incense andBy Illmatic andThere’s still no point inYou sleep tilProspect Park by iced ponds andM83 over red leavesI shouldn’t have eaten that appleThere’s time toBut there’s no time toI kiss you fiercelyYou push me downSoftly.Slowly.Fiercely.Hungrily.We don’t say –I –I –I can’t –Are you going to –I’m going to –I want to destroy the gameI want to get inside Twine nodes and fuck with the script and dismantle the timerI want to kick the shit out of itI want to treat those Twine rooms like Carrie’s prom night and gut themI want to call that timer’s parents and say DO YOU KNOW WHAT IT HAS DONE TO MEAnna, Anna, do you know what it has done to meBut it’s just a game.It says nothing to me about my lifeWhat can a text game doFuck Twine, right?Fuck TwineI playQueerswhenManhattan metersMorning deliveriesTickets toWe are human why can’t we be godsMy fingers tremble over the keyboardIIYou say youI say IThe world ends.You can fund further work by Anna bysubscribing to her Patreon. You should read my favourite poem by Norman McCaighere.
The other day I was composing an email to a friend, using my iPad with my BT email account. When I paused, I was astonished to see the following text typed before my eyes: “Sure Valleyside is now able to get easier and cheaper to upload your photo Is something you like to do Josh show people what this report has not to mention where the Christmas spirit blasting your own basic children’s faces on Christmas card is something you would do by over 30 tonight” (etc).BT has confirmed my email account has not been hacked but could offer no explanation. Is this an Apple issue or something else? I am worried that my security has been compromised.LornaIt’s not unknown for computers to “type by themselves”, but usually there is a rational explanation. For example, some programs and even some keyboards can record and replay strings of texts using macro facilities, which are provided to save retyping. People who are not aware of these macro features can accidentally record text, assign it to a key combination, then accidentally play it back.Electronic or mechanical glitches can also produce “ghost typing,” and this is a known problem – albeit a pretty rare problem – with Apple iPads. Here, one of the most believable theories is that tight accessory cases put pressure on the back of the device, though there may well be multiple causes. These have been discussed in Apple’s support conferences. See, for example, “iPad typing on it’s own and moving between pages” (sic) and “iPad behaving erratically: ‘ghost touching’”.Some users report that Apple replaced their iPads.You could think about these possibilities, but I don’t think either of them caused your problem. With a macro, you’d probably recognise the text (most of which I have not published above). With an electronic or mechanical glitch, I’d expect random characters not comprehensible sentences. In this case, it looks as though you’re picking up someone else’s typing. The question is: Where is it coming from? Is it from your iPad, your wireless network, or from BT’s network?Usually, the best way to tackle a glitch is to eliminate all but one of the possibilities in turn to isolate the problem. For example, you could test BT’s network by using a different device with a cable connection, and you could test your wireless by logging on from a different location, and so on. However, I suspect that you won’t be able to reproduce the glitch. Indeed, it may never happen again.Security issuesI don’t know of any way of remotely hacking an iPad that hasn’t been “jailbroken”, so I don’t think its security has been compromised. Even if it had been, I wouldn’t expect hackers to waste their time typing random sentences into your emails. However, your iPad might be picking up wireless signals from somebody else’s machine, either via Wi-Fi or Bluetooth. I don’t think this is likely, but at least you can eliminate the possibility.There are three things you can do to secure your Wi-Fi router. First, make sure that you have not left kept the default administrator name and password, and change the password to something longer and hard to guess. Second, your router is probably giving away too much information about what kind of device it is (BT, Linksys, TP Link etc): change the SSID to something impersonal, and change the password. Third, make sure you are using WPA2 security.You could also run an app to check that no one else is using your network. This is something you’d usually do on a PC, where there are lots of options, such asWireshark. However, Nutec’sNet Master HDis an app that will do the job from an iPad, and there may be some free options. With Net Master HD, you can scan your home network to find all the devices that are attached to it, and also do a port scan to find any open ports.As for Bluetooth, if you’re not using it to connect a keyboard or collect data from a smartphone etc, you can turn it off.The odds of your not-jailbroken iPad having some sort of malware are so close to zero that it’s not worth checking. (That includesWirelurker.) However, if you have downloaded some dodgy apps, the most secure option would be to reset your iPad to factory condition, install only the apps you want from the Apple Store, and restore your data from a backup.Email optionsPerhaps the ghost text leaked into your email due to some glitch in BT’s network or its new email service. (The old one was run by Yahoo.) Again, I don’t think it’s likely, and since you will have used a secure (https) connection to log on, it ought to be impossible. However, the experience might prompt you to think about moving to a different email service.The problem with using your internet service provider’s email service is that it discourages you from switching your ISP. If you use an independent service – such as Google’s Gmail, Microsoft’s Outlook.com, Zoho or Fastmail – you can change ISPs without having to change your email address.In general, I recommend buying your own domain name, preferably for a decade at a time. Once you own your name, you can point it to whichever email service you like. For more details, see my answer from 2010:Solve email problems forever by setting up Gmail with your own domainAlthough you have probably missed the chance to get a good .com name, there are now more than a hundred options including .uk and .eu. Admittedly some of them are rather limited, such as .army and .navy, .diamonds, .fail, .ninja and .vodka.At this stage, there’s not much to choose between the various email offerings. I’m still mainly on Gmail, but Microsoft is building up a decent collection of iPad apps, including OneDrive, OneNote, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Skype, Lync etc. If you happen to use those, then Outlook.com or even Office 365 Personal might be better options.Have you got a query? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
Thanks toFacebook’s $19bn acquisition of WhatsApp in October, messaging apps are one of Silicon Valley’s hottest sectors – or biggest bubbles, if you’re a sceptic.A recent $62m funding round for Yik Yak, an app for chatting anonymously to people nearby that only launched in November 2013, can be seen as proof of either of those beliefs.Investors’ desire to get in as early as possible to the “next WhatsApp” will fuel plenty of innovation around messaging next year, but also plenty of hot air.ChatSecure appIn terms of product development, though, the main disruption in the industry is likely to focus on security and privacy. The revelations about intelligence agencies’ surveillance prompted by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden have already spawned a flurry of startups launching “secure” messaging apps that use encryption technology to keep chats private, including ChatSecure, Cryptocat, RetroShare, Signal, Silent Text, Telegram, TextSecure, Threema and Wickr.The common thread: they are used by people who know about encryption and security to talk to other people who know about encryption and security, but in a market where mainstream smartphone owners choose messaging apps based on what their friends use, all of the apps listed above are niche.TextSecure appA recent “secure messaging scorecard”published by the Electronic Frontier Foundationrating apps across seven criteria made the difference clear: lots of green ticks for the security apps, and lots of red circles for the mainstream apps.That may change in 2015. WhatsApp has already made its move,working with the creators of secure messaging app TextSecureto add “end-to-end” encryption – so the key to unscramble messages is only stored on users’ phones – to its Android app, with iOS to come.“We believe this already represents the largest deployment of end-to-end encrypted communication in history,” saidTextSecurein a blog post. It may also put pressure on other mainstream messaging apps to follow suit, or explain why they are not.Telegram app“As messaging apps become an essential part of our daily lives, I think users are becoming more and more concerned about security issues and about how their data is being used by corporations,” saysTalmon Marco, chief executive of Viber, which was criticised in April after being found transmitting images and video without encryption, before fixing the problem. “It’s only natural that security issues will be a key consideration for consumers when considering which apps to adopt so we have to make it a priority.”Other apps see it the same way.Telegram, for example, was founded by Nikolai and Pavel Durov, who were also behind Russian social network vKontakte. The pair are currently running a contest challenging hackers to break Telegram’s encryption, with a $300,000 reward.Threema appSwiss-basedThreemahas also argued that even with end-to-end encryption, WhatsApp still isn’t as secure as it could be. “End-to-End encryption is just one element of secure communication. Secure messaging should also address privacy matters, which are even more important,” the company told users in November. “Unambiguous conclusions about the identity of a user are still possible with WhatsApp, since every account is linked to a phone number. Data continues to be collected.”This is why initiatives like the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s scorecard will be valuable in 2015: messaging users who aren’t online security experts will need help in understanding how one app’s encryption differs from another’s, and what they should be looking for.
In 2012, 19-year-old Palmer Luckey launched a crowd-funding campaign to raise $250,000 to build development kits of a virtual reality headset called theOculus Rift. The campaign closed at $2.4m. In March, Facebook acquired Luckey’s company, Oculus VR, for $2bn.It isn’t yet ready for consumers but the headset, along with alternatives such asSamsung’s Gear VRandSony’s PS4-exclusive Project Morpheus, has already made a big impression on the games industry, where developers are excitedly experimenting with this burgeoning form of entertainment. One that game people are particularly keen to experience in virtual reality (VR) isElite: Dangerous, a space simulator that lets players pilot a spaceship and engage in trade or combat. “Our galaxy is filled with incredible sights,” says producer Eddie Symons. “Seeing these things recreated in an immersive virtual reality experience is the closest any of us will ever come to experiencing those real wonders.”Elitealso works well in VR because, as Symons explains: “As a seated experience, it’s much easier to lose yourself in the game.” The synergy between player and avatar also lowers the risk of simulator sickness. Frontier Developments added Rift support toEliteearlier than planned when it became obvious that’s what players wanted. Honor Code had a similar experience with forthcoming underwater survival gameNarcosis, developer David Chen explains: “The recurring theme was just constantly, ‘This game is going to be on Oculus, correct? It sounds like the perfect fit.’” That fit is almost too perfect, as the Rift echoes the protagonist’s diving mask, which enhances the horror of being stranded on the ocean floor.“It can put you in situations that you would never ever be able to, or in our particular case maybe want to, experience first hand,” says Chen.Owen Harris is also interested in VR’s ability to take us away. He’s working on a game calledDeepthat started as an aid to help with his anxiety issues. “The whole idea initially was to go to a nice place,” he explains. “With a screen, you just simply can’t get that.”LikeNarcosis,Deeptakes place underwater, though currently a more abstract interpretation. A device worn around the diaphragm measures breathing: a deep inhalation moves the avatar up through the water, while breathing out lowers them. It could only work in VR.The same is true forKeep TalkingandNobody Explodes, in which a player wearing a VR headset defuses a virtual bomb, instructed by players in the real world. Steel Crate Games came up with the idea during theGlobal Game Jamcorrect but is developing it fully now thanks to the positive response. It’s a unique application for the technology that counters the criticism that VR is a solitary pursuit.“Our game has certainly provided some very social experiences that we hadn’t been seeing much with other virtual reality demos,” says developer Ben Kane.Given that the Oculus Rift isn’t yet available for consumers, the range of projects is astonishing. As for what happens next, it’s clear from the language developers are using – “limitless”, “unimaginable”, “world changing” – that the effect these devices will have on our lives is virtually impossible to predict.
Though quick to embrace technology in its business, the financial industry has always felt rather separate from the wider tech sector. Stringent security requirements, arcane systems and a business dominated by a few enormous companies have kept out the smaller firms that often drive innovation. But that’s beginning to change, as banks realise that they need to play nice with others, and others realise that they can, at times, do without the banks.“If you look around, whether it’s lending, asset management, or money transfer … we’re seeing specialist companies who are doing a much better job than the incumbent banks,” says Taavet Hinrikus, whose London-based company,TransferWise. “That’s happened in the last couple of years because consumers are fed up with their banks. At the same time, people are feeling safer about using the internet. I’m convinced we will see 30-40% of finance being done by new companies, similar to what we see in other industries.”TransferWise is making inroads as a foreign exchange service, with a twist: it doesn’t exchange any money. Instead, it pairs people who want to get rid of a currency with those who want to get hold of it.If Alice in the UK sends £10 to Bob in Ireland and at the same time Charlie in Ireland sends €12 to Diane in the UK, then the money doesn’t cross any borders at all; Charlie just sends his money to Bob, and Alice sends hers to Diane. That lets the firm slim its fees down to a minimal level, charging less than £5 to send £1,000 overseas.Cutting fees is an obvious vector of attack for tech firms trying to muscle in on the financial sector, and it’s one thatRobinhoodtakes as well. The US-based firm is aiming to take on stockbrokers with a shiny app, a ton of venture capital backing, and $0 fees on transactions.It says that it manages that feat by “cutting out the fat that makes other brokerages costly”, such as “legacy technology, hundreds of storefront locations, and paper-based accounting” – though cash injections from the likes of Google Ventures and Andreessen Horowitz also allow them “the freedom to focus on building a wonderful brokerage experience rather than short-term profits”. But potential day-trader-millionaires needn’t worry.The firm emphasises that its name “is not about ‘taking from the rich and giving to the poor.’ Instead, it’s about allowing everyone to fully share in the fruits of capitalism.”Not everyone is competing on price, though.Stripeis attempting to win its share of the market by becoming a developer darling, making it easier than ever to integrate payments into apps and websites. It’s not cheap, charging slightly more than conventional card processors per use, but it makes up for that in simplicity: sites can add payments with as little as one line of code.Anyone who’s had to deal with a bank for anything more than a basic savings account knows that simplicity can be as much of a selling point as price, and that’s what Stripe’s attempting to capitalise on. But the service, which bills itself as a “programming language for money”, can also handle complex, large-scale transactions, and has been used by firms including Twitter and Facebook.But for the real programming language for money, it might be worth turning to something built in the internet age: bitcoin. And while Coinbase isn’t the oldest bitcoin firm, it is the company attempting to drag the cryptocurrency kicking and screaming into respectability. The company offers a range of services, from consumer wallets to developer tools, aimed at making bitcoin mainstream.Bitcoin may have been born in the anti-government techno-libertarian milieu, but it doesn’t have to stay there. Turn it from the favoured currency of online black markets to the choice of firms trying to break the stranglehold of the credit-card processors, and it could be big business. “There’s now 10 merchants in the US with over a billion dollars in revenue who take Bitcoin,” says Brian Armstrong, Coinbase’s chief executive. “At the beginning of this year, there were zero.”No discussion of financial technology would be complete without mentioning the elephant in the room: Apple, whose Apple Pay service launched in the US last month. The service lets users pay for goods both online and, if they have a new iPhone, offline, with just a tap of their finger on the home button.At first glance, the firm seems to be moving in the opposite direction to all the others, partnering with the banks rather than competing with them, and adding complexity to the system rather than simplifying it. But with the company’s £100bn cash reserves behind it, and the hardware in the pockets of almost 20 million users, it’s hard to bet against success. But it’s only the beginning of the revolution, not the end.
“Basically it is a monster,” says Nelly Ben Hayoun in an attempt to explain her upcoming project,Disaster Playground. The French experimental film-maker’s latest endeavour is multifaceted, but centres on a documentary. It explores the design of emergency procedures in the space programme, the cause of a potential crisis being not a monster but, most likely, an asteroid. “The idea is to build something a bit more unusual. We are looking at all the various platforms to distribute the film, to try and make something different,” she says.Ben Hayoun uses Disaster Playground to introduce audiences to the reality of planetary defence, and the real space experts responsible for averting such disasters. The film follows the path of decision-making from organisations such as the Seti Institute and Nasa all the way to the UN, re-enacting scenarios for the deflection of near Earth objects, as well as other space-related catastrophes.The feature film is set for release in March 2015, with a gaming app based on scenes from the documentary in the pipeline, along with a site-specific “immersive experience” and a touring exhibition. Ben Hayoun is in talks with publishers regarding a series of Disaster Playground books, and a concert from Ed Banger Records, which provided the soundtrack, is also planned.Ben Hayoun, who is also designer of experiences forSetiand head of experiences at WeTransfer, has never been afraid of a challenge. Having previously created miniature volcanoes for living rooms, a “small science equivalent” of the Large Hadron Collider in her kitchen, and assembled a group of space scientists into the world’s firstInternational Space Orchestra, she says she approaches her work from a human, rather than a scientific perspective.With both Jean Baudrillard’sAmericaand the work of JG Ballard cited as points of influence, Ben Hayoun’s commitment to realism is infused with creativity – and she has a penchant for employing dramatic devices. An oversized version of the red phone – often symbolic of the supposed hotline from the White House to Moscow – is used to construct Ben Hayoun’s very own Theatre of Cruelty by presenting an “enhanced double” of real life to provoke a response from her subjects. “It’s not about being gentle; I’m very pushy,” she says. “A lot of the scientists would say, ‘Oh, I’m just here to provide people with data.’ But I say, ‘Look, you’re one of the 20 scientists who has a say before it reaches the UN … Is it that we send a nuclear bomb to the asteroid? There is a real concern about what, actually, we are to do.’ Then, of course, they explain what it means to be in their shoes.”
Google is closing Google News in Spain and removing Spanish media outlets from the service following a row with the country’s government over new legislation aimed at protecting local publishers that requires the search company to pay for using their content.The tech giant announced late on Wednesday that Google News would close in Spain on 16 December. A spokeswoman said she was “incredibly sad” to announce the company was shutting the service.The Spanish government passed a new copyright law in October that imposes fees for online content aggregators such as Google News in an effort to protect the country’s print media industry. The law comes into effect in January.Known popularly as the “Google Tax”, the law requires services that post links and excerpts of news articles to pay a fee to the Association of Editors of Spanish Dailies. It will also affect other news aggregators including Yahoo News. Authorities will have the power to fine websites up to €600,000 ($748,000) for linking to pirated content.“This new legislation requires every Spanish publication to charge services like Google News for showing even the smallest snippet from their publications, whether they want to or not. As Google News itself makes no money (we do not show any advertising on the site) this new approach is simply not sustainable,” Richard Gingras, head of Google News, wrote in ablogpost.He said Google was driving more than 10bn clicks to publisher websites every month and its Adsense product, which delivers ads to websites, paid out over $9bn to publishers last year, up from $7bn the year before. Google news is currently available in 70 international editions, covering 35 languages.The Spanish law is one of a series of spats Google is now facing in Europe. European publishers including Axel Springer have accused the company of abusing its dominance in search and are pressing for action from the European parliament.Last month the parliament approved amotion calling for tougher regulationof internet search and suggested a break-up of Google to end its dominance in Europe.Germany passed a similar law to Spain’s and Google removed newspapers from Google News in response but in October publishers reached an agreement with the company after traffic to their websites plummeted.“For centuries publishers were limited in how widely they could distribute the printed page,” wrote Gingras. “The internet changed all that - creating tremendous opportunities but also real challenges for publishers as competition both for readers’ attention and for advertising euros increased.“We’re committed to helping the news industry meet that challenge and look forward to continuing to work with our thousands of partners globally, as well as in Spain, to help them increase their online readership and revenues.”
Christmas is fast approaching and 2015 is set to be the year of the smartwatch. There are many available across different prices and capabilities, but which one is right for the perfect gift this festive season?Pebble SteelThe Pebble Steel comes in several colours with both metal and leather straps.Photograph: Pebble£179The Pebble is the smartwatch that reignited the trend for putting a second screen on the wrist. Successfully crowdfunded in 2012, the original Pebble went on general sale in 2013 before the company released the Pebble Steel upgrade, with a metal body.The Pebble lasts longer than any other smartwatch on a single charge with five to seven days of use before needing a charge, thanks to its always-on low-power black and white E-ink screen. It has no touchscreen, however, relying on three buttons down the side instead, but is waterproof.It displays notifications from a smartphone, including texts, emails and calls, and has more than 1,000 apps available for controlling and doing almost anything. The Pebble can also count steps and calories like a fitness tracker. It is comfortable to wear with a leather or metal strap, and is the only smartwatch that will work with both Android and iPhones.Verdict:Always-readable screen with week-long battery life make an excellent basic smartwatch.Motorola Moto 360The Moto 360 comes in two colours: black and steel.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian£199The Motorola Moto 360 is the flagship smartwatch powered by Google’s Android Wear software. Unlike the Pebble, it has a round LCD screen that lights up when the smartwatch is moved. It also has an ambient light sensor to change the brightness of the backlight automatically.It connects to an Android smartphone via Bluetooth, displaying notifications including email, text messages and calls. Android Wear uses Google’s intelligent digital assistant, Google Now, to display just-in-time information including updates on traffic and sports scores.Google Maps can provide turn-by-turn directions straight to the wrist, while users can perform voice searches and dictate messages using the built-in microphone. The watch also has timers, alarms and other routine watch functions, and a growing selection of apps from the Google Play store. Built-in heart rate and motion sensors can monitor activity, linking to Google Fit, and the watch is light and comfortable.The battery lasts only one day with general use, but is charged within an hour with a wireless charging dock.Verdict:The most attractive smartwatch is let down by poor battery life.•Motorola Moto 360 review: beautiful smartwatch spoiled by poor battery lifeLG G WatchThe square LG G Watch comes in two colours: black and white.Photograph: Jeff Chiu/AP£159The square LG G Watch was one of the first Android Wear smartwatches to be released and is now the cheapest available. Its design is very simple and understated, but it is waterproof, has two-day battery life and an easily readable screen, making it a solid option. The LCD is backlit, but can stay dimly lit for glancing at the time or alerts. It does not have an ambient light sensor for adjusting the brightness of the main backlight.It can display notifications from a smartphone, perform voice searches, run Android apps and track activity, but lacks a heart-rate sensor.Verdict:Lower cost and decent battery life, but the lack of a heart-rate sensor is a minus.•Google smartwatches review: LG G Watch, Samsung Gear Live and Android WearLG G Watch RThe LG G Watch R is big and masculine, despite having a smaller screen than the Moto 360.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian£225LG’s second Android Wear smartwatch, the G Watch R, is the only one with a completely round screen – no squared-off bottom edge like the Moto 360’s flat tyre screen.The bright circular screen is surrounded by a masculine-looking chunky watch case, which makes it the largest Android Wear smartwatch available. Its leather strap is very stiff, but the watch is comfortable to wear.It is also the most expensive Android Wear smartwatch, but has a solid two-day battery life, is waterproof and has a heart-rate sensor under the watch’s body.Like the square G Watch and all other Android Wear watches, it displays notifications from an Android smartphone, runs third-party apps such as Runtastic and Evernote, as well as syncing music from Google Play music for playing tracks without a smartphone direct to a pair of Bluetooth headphones.Verdict:Big, chunky and looks like a traditional masculine watch.•LG’s G Watch R review: chunky, masculine, and fastSony Smartwatch 3The Sony Smartwatch 3 has a screen you can see using just ambient light, like the Pebble Steel.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian£189Sony’s Smartwatch 3 is one of the newest Android Wear watches, and Sony’s third smartwatch.Its understated design is similar to the LG G Watch, with a square screen but it boasts an interchangeable silicone strap, which is comfortable to wear.Like any other Android Wear watches, it connects to a smartphone to access the internet, receive notifications and runs third-party applications, and performs voice searches and can play music without a smartphone.The Smartwatch 3 is the most future-proof of the Android Wear watches with GPS, Wi-Fi and NFC chips.The GPS allows the apps to locate the watch without a smartphone, useful for running apps, while the Wi-Fi and NFC capabilities will be enabled at a later date. It lacks a heart-rate sensor, however, relying solely on an accelerometer for activity tracking.The Sony also has the longest battery life of any Android Wear watch, lasting three days on a charge thanks to a power-efficient screen.It will light up when moved so it can be seen in the dark, but doesn’t need the backlight to be seen at a glance during the day.Verdict:Long battery life and future-proofed hardware make it a solid option.•Sony Smartwatch 3 review: great design, good screen and decent batterySamsung Gear SSamsung Gear S smartwatch comes in two colours, black and white, with a curved OLED screen.Photograph: Maurizio Pesce/flickrPhotograph: Maurizio Pesce/flickr£369The Samsung Gear S is the only smartwatch that is a complete smartphone on the wrist. It has its own mobile phone connection and Wi-Fi, meaning it does not have to rely on a smartphone for an internet connection.The Gear S can make and take calls from the wrist, talking into the watch like a futuristic superhero, while a Bluetooth connection can receive notifications from a smartphone if required. Email, SMS and voice control are all possible, along with a music player for using Bluetooth headphones.The 2in curved screen is crisp and clear with room for a small keyboard. It runs third-party Tizen apps, including Opera Mini for browsing websites on the wrist.The Gear S also tracks activity, has a heart-rate sensor on the back and lasts a good day between charges.Verdict:The smartwatch that lets you leave your smartphone at home.Other reviews•Which is the best tablet for Christmas?•Which is the best smartphone for less than £150?•Six of the best noise-cancelling headphones to silence the commute•Five best laptops to suit any budget
Famous filesharing siteThe Pirate Bay went offline this week, after a raid on a server farm in Sweden. Even its former spokesperson Peter Sunde – that’s him above – isn’t calling for its speedy revival.“News just reached me that The Pirate Bay has been raided, again. That happened over 8 years ago last time. That time, a lot of people went out to protest and rally in the streets. Today few seem to care. And I’m one of them,” hewrote in a blog post.Why? Sunde thinks The Pirate Bay has outlived its usefulness and relevance. “TPB has become an institution that people just expected to be there. Noone willing to take the technology further,” he wrote.“The site was ugly, full of bugs, old code and old design. It never changed except for one thing – the ads. More and more ads was filling the site, and somehow when it felt unimaginable to make these ads more distasteful they somehow ended up even worse.”It’s hard not to agree that it doesn’t really matter whether The Pirate Bay comes back or not, beyond the fact that it remains the most-recognised filesharing brand.If you’re a pro-copyright person, the focus nowadays is more on developing better legal services to compete with piracy. If you’re a pro-filesharing person, you might be more concerned about court orders forcing ISPs to block a host of other sites.What do you think, though? The comments section is open for your thoughts.What else is of interest this morning? Some links to think about:Android Wear gets more personalisedThanks to a new API, Google-powered smartwatches can now download a range of watch faces – “from the unpredictable Minions in Despicable Me to the X-Ray artistry of Hugh Turvey” – with the Android Wear app updated to make it easier to browse and download new faces. If you’ve got a device, what are your instincts as far as a watch face goes: branded, classic, or modern?What does your car know about you?The Washington Post has an interesting article on the data that your car is gathering about your driving, and a new privacy policy agreed by manufacturers that will come into force in 2016. “The sooner the industry can be seen as taking privacy seriously, the better off consumers will be...”Tim Berners-Lee wishes there were less apps for thatThe founder of the web isn’t so keen on app silos. “If you just take your magazine and put it in an app, it’s boring,” he said in an appearance at the Le Web conference in Paris. “It’s not part of the conversation. If you build it in a web app, you can have a big discussion.” He also had some advice: “You spend 95 percent of your time as a user of technology, then you need to spend at least five percent of your time watching the legal situation.”BitTorrent is working on a web browser“It started with a simple question. What if more of the web worked the way BitTorrent does? Project Maelstrom begins to answer that question with our first public release of a web browser that can power a new way for web content to be published, accessed and consumed. Truly an Internet powered by people, one that lowers barriers and denies gatekeepers their grip on our future.”Google ramps up support for Cardboard virtual realityWhen it was unveiled earlier this year, Google’s Cardboard VR project sounded a bit like a joke poking fun at Oculus Rift. It’s no joke though: this week, Google has released new SDKs and made it easier for Android users to find apps that work with the $20 headset. The Verge notes that Google is encouraging people to make their own, too.What else? The comments section is open for your thoughts on the stories above, and your recommendations of other links worth checking out.
It's Thursday.
Uber is having aterrible, horrible, no good, very badweek – and it’s only Wednesday.Prosecutors in California have filed a lawsuit against the taxi service, citing what they say are unlawful business practices that include overcharging users and misleading them about its security standards.The lawsuit was filed by the district attorneys of Los Angeles and San Francisco in a court in San Francisco, where Uber is based. It accuses the controversial company of making fraudulent statements to consumers about the quality of its driver background checks and a $4 airport fee to riders traveling to and from San Francisco international airport, even though the drivers weren’t paying that fee to the airport.“It’s not our goal to shut them down,” Los Angeles district attorney Jackie Lacey said at a press conference on Tuesday. “What we’re saying is the advertising is false.”Prosecutors are not asking the court to halt the company’s services while the suit proceeds.The prosecutors settled a similar suit with a rival company, Lyft, which agreed to drop claims that its background checks on drivers are the “gold standard”. The company also paid a fine of $500,000 and agreed to change some of its business practices, according to San Francisco County district attorney George Gascon.“Californians and California lawmakers all agree – Uber is an integral, safe and established part of the transportation ecosystem in the Golden State,” Eva Behrend, an Uber spokeswoman, said in a statement. “Uber has met with the district attorneys to address their concerns regarding airport operations, the uberPOOL product, background checks and operation of the app. We will continue to engage in discussions with the district attorneys.”Ride-sharing companies connect riders to private-car drivers through smartphone apps. The service is meant to be quicker and cheaper than taking a taxi.The lawsuit is the latest in a string of setbacks for Uber. It was banned this week inSpain, the Netherlands, Thailand and the capital ofIndia.On Tuesday,the city of Portland, Oregon, sued Uberin an attempt to stop the company from operating within city limits just days after it launched there. The lawsuit asks the court to confirm Uber is subject to the city’s regulations and to halt its operations until it is in compliance.The company, now valued at $41bn, has clashed repeatedly with governments around the world.The taxi service was banned in Delhi after a female passenger accused a driver of raping her. Indian police accused the taxi service of not properly vetting drivers after it emerged that the man accused of rape had beenarrested for an alleged sexual assault three years ago.Also this week, a former Uber driver who fatally struck a six-year-old girl crossing the street in San Francisco on New Year’s Eve with his car wascharged with misdemeanor vehicularmanslaughter.In the US, a judge in Nevada has issued an order barring the service from operating there, and Pennsylvania and Virginia have issued cease-and-desist orders to both Uber and Lyft.
WhenFacebook announced it was buying Instagramfor $1bn in 2012, the photo-sharing app had been downloaded by more than 30m people. Two and a half years on, the app now has more than 300 million active users.The milestone wasrevealed on Instagram’s blog, alongside the announcement that the app is launching “verified” badges for celebrities, sports stars and brands, while also planning a crackdown on “spammy” accounts.“We’re proud to announce that there are now more than 300 million Instagrammers. Over the past four years, what began as two friends with a dream has grown into a global community that shares more than 70 million photos and videos each day,” wrote chief executive Kevin Systrom.That makes Instagram bigger than Twitter, which had 284 million active users the last time it revealed such figures publicly, although Instagram is still behind Facebook Messenger (500m), WhatsApp (600m) and Facebook itself (1.1bn mobile monthly active users).In July, Facebook chief executiveMark Zuckerberg told analyststhat “globally, people using Instagram now spend around 21 minutes a day on average using the app,” meanwhile.Instagram launched for Apple’s iPhone in October 2010, before being ported to Android in April 2012. It has grown rapidly,reaching 100 million active users in February 2013, then200 million in March 2014. It has taken just nine months to hit the 300 million milestone.Systrom told CNBCthat more than 70% of Instagram’s users are now outside the US. “We’re seeing a lot of people coming in the fashion world, a lot of people coming in in the youthful teens world, and a lot of people internationally as well,” he said.The new verified badges match similar features on Facebook and Twitter, marking out the authentic profiles of public figures, and thus helping people spot fakes. Instagram’s badges will “start rolling out over the coming days” according to Systrom.Instagram has become a popular social media channel for brands and celebrities alike, fromTaylor Swift popping up to comment on fans’ poststoKim Kardashian’s infamous attempt to “break the internet”with a snap of a nude magazine photo-shoot.On the brands front, Instagram has been trying to make money by selling advertising,putting its first ads in users’ feeds in late 2013 in the US, beforeexpanding to the UK in September 2014with partners including Waitrose, Rimmel, Channel 4, Starbucks, Cadbury, Estee Lauder and Sony Music.The new crackdown on “spammy” and fake accounts is part of that effort, withnumerous brands having been represented on Instagram by fake accountsin recent years.“As more people join, keeping Instagram authentic is critical—it’s a place where real people share real moments. We’re committed to doing everything possible to keep Instagram free from the fake and spammy accounts that plague much of the web,” he wrote in the blog post.“We’ve been deactivating spammy accounts from Instagram on an ongoing basis to improve your experience. As part of this effort, we will be deleting these accounts forever, so they will no longer be included in follower counts.”With 300 million people using the app, Instagram remains focused on growth, with its parent company seemingly keen to avoid being too over-aggressive in its efforts to make money.“There have been a number of good ads, both video and images that I think have been pretty effective, but it’s fairly early and in the growth phase at this point,” said Zuckerberg in July, when Instagram’s public user figure was still 200 million.“The top priority for Instagram is to grow from 200 to more and eventually connect a billion or more people. And I think that that’s something that should be possible and that’s what I’m really focused on and excited about now, while we also start building out some of the parts of the business as well.”•Labour leader Ed Miliband joins Instagram, is offered biscuit
Even before its release, the first expansion pack for co-op space shooter Destiny was attracting controversy. Now that it is available, the £20 add-on, called The Dark Below, is at the very centre of an ongoing debate about how publishers generate additional revenue from their games after release.Simply put, publisher Activision is charging players £20 for ... not much. The pack includes three new story missions, three new multiplayer maps, two new co-operative multiplayer strikes (although one is exclusive to Sony’s Playstation) and a new six-person Raid, Crota’s End, aimed at the highest-level players.The sparse new content takes a surprisingly long time to get through, though, because of the many gates the developer has put in the way of progress. For instance: before the flagship new strike can be undertaken, players must complete all three of the new story missions, plus four further “quest” bounties, taking them from Earth to the Moon and back. Those bounties are new gameplay in the most nominal fashion only, asking players to kill old enemies in old locations for a slightly different reason.However, where the pack shines is in introducing a sense of continuity missing from the original game. Missions in Destiny - even those that ostensibly formed the core of the story mode - felt disconnected from one another, with only the bored ramblings of Peter Dinklage telling players why this particular alien threat was related to others.The Dark Below shows Bungie paying attention to the lessons of MMOs like World of Warcraft, with a quest chain that actually works to build anticipation, giving players a view of the strike’s boss right from the start of the first new mission, and establishing her as a threat from the off. It is not quite the focus on story which some players were hoping for, but it feels like actual in-game world building, which has been notably absent until now.And sparse does not necessarily mean bad. The new missions are among the best in the game so far, as is the main strike. Reports from the devoted few who have already managed to crack the Crota’s End raid suggest that it lives up to the quality of the Vault of Glass, although the new Crucible maps are more of a mixed bag, with Skyshock in particular clearly built for the currently non-existent Capture the Flag mode.But in a way, talking about the quality of what you get with the Dark Below is moot, because of the way it has affected the base game. It is not an expansion pack; it is a subscription fee. While Destiny is nominally playable if you do not buy the Dark Below, the expansion has gated off a lot of stuff from players who have not bought in. Gone is the ability to get new Cryptarch engrams from Vanguard Strikes or play Heroic or Nightfall strikes (at least for this week; that might change in the future), and as time goes on that list looks like it will keep rising.Viewed that way, the calculus changes somewhat: £20 for a three-month subscription, or £35 (the cost of the first two expansions if bought together) for a six-month one, is fairly reasonable. And when comparing the Dark Below content to what is introduced in a typical massively multiplayer online (MMO) game patch, rather than expansion pack, the material comes off more favourably. If so, that would make the inevitable Destiny 2 more akin to a full MMO expansion pack – and since players are likely to be able to carry their characters over, the comparison stands.Perhaps the most important aspect of the Dark Below is how it shows the areas Bungie is trying to tighten up, versus those where its offering to users is “deal with it”. Content will continue to be locked away behind a fair amount of grinding, and the price of entry (in cold, hard cash) probably is not going to fall any time soon. But since its launch, there has been an undeniable slickness to the way Bungie has presented what are fairly tired old mechanics, and the Dark Below shows no sign of that attention to detail dropping.At this stage, it should be clear that Bungie is serious about its much-proclaimed intention to build the game as a ten-year franchise. The Dark Below is a good start at achieving that goal, but players will expect more in the future, and detractors will continue to ask questions about how publishers are transforming the idea of post-release content from added extras to gated community.Destiny review: the future of games remains locked in the past
The end of the shameful drunken selfie could be nigh: Facebook is developing artificial intelligence that will ask if users really want to post pictures of themselves and friends under the influence.The “deep learning” system will analyse photos and other Facebook actions and identify potentially embarrassing elements.“Imagine that you had an intelligent digital assistant which would mediate your interaction with your friends and also with content on Facebook,”Yann LeCun, Facebook’s chief of its artificial intelligence research labtold Wired.‘Are you sure you want your boss and your mother to see this?’It could look at what users upload and virtually say “uh, this is being posted publicly. Are you sure you want your boss and your mother to see this?” he explained.LeCun is a New York University researcher in machine learning who now heads Facebook’s AI research. The researchers focus on using deep learning, a section of AI being heavily invested in by not only Facebook but other technology companies including Google.Deep learning was the focus of Google’s purchase of the BritishAI startup Deepmind, which spawned a newcomputer science research partnershipwith Oxford University.‘An AI-complete problem’The aim for Facebook’s “digital assistant” is that it will analyse every action by a user with the social network, beyond photos to videos and interactions, and give them more control such as notifications when other users post unauthorised photos .“You will have a single point of contact to mediate your interaction but also to protect your private information,” explained LeCun. He added that “you need a machine to really understand content and understand people and be able to hold all that data. That is an AI-complete problem.”AI-complete is the term used to describe the most difficult challenges in artificial intelligence research - equivalent to creating human-level intelligence. That means it is a long way from becoming reality.Facebook’s existing AI technology can identify faces in photos, recognising people and suggesting tags for them. The service can be turned off.For now, LeCun has shorter term goals set closer to the behaviour of Google and Apple’s digital assistants Google Now and Siri, answering short questions and interpreting natural language.•Elon Musk: artificial intelligence is our biggest existential threat•Eric Schmidt says AI concerns are normal but ‘misguided’•Artificial intelligence: how clever do we want our machines to be?
Your space craft touches down on the uncharted planet. In the distance, a craggy spine of mountains looms over a vast alien forest. No human has ever been here before; perhaps no one will ever come back. You are alone.No Man’s Sky doesn’t work like other science-fiction adventures you may have played. There is no over-arching story, no grand scheme to funnel players through. Instead, it provides a vast universe filled with worlds that have been procedurally generated by computer algorithms, and it tells you to go out there and explore. You can fly your spaceship, land on any chunk of rock, get out and look around. Everything else, from here on in, is up to you.Somehow this is counter-intuitive to expectations in 2014.Sean Murray, co-founder of Hello Games, the tiny Guildford-based studio behind No Man’s Sky, is unrepentant about its narrative minimalism. For him, the game is about freedom and personal experience in an unknowable cosmos. “We have this galactic map, and when the game starts, the map is completely unexplored,” he says. “As people fly out, they slowly start to fill in some of the detail, but the universe is so vast that they’ll only discover a tiny amount. Everyone will have very different experiences.”Although presented to the public on several occasions since it was revealed last year, very little is really known about No Man’s Sky. We know that it’s a persistent online universe inhabited by every player; we know participants will be able to gather resources from planets in order to buy new equipment and space craft. We know there are computer-controlled inhabitants – from creatures roaming planet surfaces to aliens piloting space craft – but nothing else is clear. Perhaps because there is nothing else. That is the point.“I’ve travelled quite a bit,” says Murray. “I was in the Arctic for a while, where there’s this sense of utter isolation. It’s something games just don’t do. Danger in games is always about explosions. That’s not the danger most of us experience in real life.”What Murray laments is the way mainstream titles tend to restrict the gaming experience. “Games are obsessed with having no breathing space - they never let the player walk around and enjoy something,” he says. “With Call of Duty, it feels like they sit there with a stopwatch and if an explosion hasn’t gone off every 30 seconds, someone is fired.“I’m numb to it. I mean, games are amazing now, they’re beautiful. But you sit and watch something that looks glorious, and hundreds of people have worked on it, and you find yourself yawning.“Then you play something much more simple, like Amnesia, and you have so many more emotions - just because there are lulls, there is sometimes nothing, so when something does happen, it surprises you. That’s what real life is like. Anything you see enough of, just becomes normal. Games are terrible for that.”But Murray has a theory. Since Minecraft was first released in 2011, it has engendered a new era of game design – and gamer – that is more about player experience and creativity than it is about a drip-fed narrative. Right now, the players who are in to open-ended games like Minecraft, Terraria and Day Z represent a niche – but soon they will be the mainstream.“The kids who grew up with Minecraft will really struggle to relate to something like Assassin’s Creed,” argues Murray. “They won’t want to be that guy. When they say ‘I love games’ they don’t mean the same things that we do when we say it. The Minecraft generation has a totally different expectation. I’ve found myself intersecting with them - I’ve found myself playing those games, playing Day Z for hours and being reinvigorated. This is the kind of game we want to make.”No Man’s Sky’s vast galactic map. According to Hello Games, there are 18,446,744,073,709,551,616 possible planets, “in practical terms at least”.But these new games do not just provide players with the freedom to explore, they also offer the freedom to be creative agents in the world. As well as building houses, it means experimenting with the environment and mechanics to produce their own game experiences.“So few games allow you to express yourself,” says Murray. “In the Call of Duty single-player story, I can’t express myself at all. They don’t want me to. They’re fighting me so hard – to the point where I just go around shooting everyone in the groin– it’s the only thing I can do to be expressive, to be funny within the game. And when you make choices in Mass effect it feels like it was agony for the designers to put that in there.“Then suddenly, there are these other games where you’re just telling your own story. You ask a kid what they’re doing when they play Minecraft and they can’t even tell you – they’re doing dozens of things no one has told them to. They’re just playing. As a veteran gamer, you almost feel guilty doing this. Oh I’m wasting time, what have I achieved? What’s my score? Tell me Xbox! Validate what I’m doing! Legitimatise me!”Murray is keen to stress that No Man’s Sky will provide a familiar “core experience” to players. It has space combat, it has first-person shooter action on the planets; there is a structure that will guide players toward some sort of resolution at the centre of the galaxy. There are also hints of some sort of darker threat lurking out there in space.But everything will be more esoteric than many are used to now. The Hello Games team are all computer gaming veterans; they grew up playing weird obtuse adventures on the Commodore 64, Spectrum and Amstrad. In those days the possibilities were not always signposted for the player. It was all about discovery; you had to draw your own maps and figure things out. Minecraft has retained an element of this, on the PC at least, by not spelling out to players how everything has to be crafted. It has allowed the community to flourish through the sharing of arcane knowledge.The plan with No Man’s Sky is to fill the game with experiences that the player will have to figure out for themselves. As Sean Murray explains: “When I play Battlefield, I actually find it really engaging; you’re in this astonishing war scenario, you have a tightness in your stomach, a tension. But then you shoot someone and you get a headshot bonus; and then it’s ‘oh of course, I’m just playing an arcade game, I’m just playing Virtual Cop again. It won’t let you let go.”“Most of the games at E3, no YouTuber is going to play them,” says Murray. “The Last of Us is a favourite game of mine, but there is almost no point in doing a Let’s Play of that: there will be no differentiation between your playthough and mine. Did you complete it? Yes I did. Did you see the giraffe? Yes I did. That’s lovely but what’s different about games is that they’re intereractive; we shouldn’t remove that, or try to corral it and constrain it.”For Murray, the places where mainstream games get closest to their more obtuse and demanding ancestors is in their hidden elements; their Easter eggs and secrets, the stuff put in for the real fans to discover and decipher. No Man’s Sky is that stuff stretched out again into a whole game.“The mythology that surrounds the yeti in GTA – we’re sort of making a game that is about that,” he says. “It should appeal to the people who that appeals to. This is slightly embarrassing, but we have a whole lore, a mythology mapped out, and every design decision we make, we make it with that in mind.“So choosing the insignia on ships or the type of architecture – if people lived on these types of planets, what kind of buildings would they have? How many different races are there? We have it all mapped up, but we won’t tell you any of it; and you probably won’t be able to figure it out.“But if it happens that people start a wiki to map the whole thing out, that’s fantastic – that’s so much more interesting than us just trying to ram it down your throat, or having a little AI that travels around with you in your ship, telling you the name of everything. It’s not our story.”One of the game’s trading posts, where players will be able to buy upgrades to items – and learn more about other inhabitants. “There will be consistency to the universe so you can gain some insight,” says Murray. “You’ll see that the insignia on a certain ship will match a certain space station, in a certain quadrant.”Maybe there is no goal; maybe the experience is the destination. That will be hard for some people to accept. But perhaps there is another way to think about No Man’s Sky. While big ambitious space games like Mass Effect and Star Citizen are perhaps looking to the likes of Star Trek and Star Wars, Hello Games is more closely referencing those weird, disoptian sci-fi films of the 60s and 70s: Silent Running, Solaris, 2001 - movies that explored the surreality and mysticism of space.“There’s a natural, almost horror element to all those films, where loneliness is something dangerous in itself,” says Murray. “That’s the feeling we want you to have all the time; that you are vulnerable and tiny in this universe.“Then you can really lose yourself in it ... just a little bit.”No Man’s Sky is due out in 2015 on PC and PlayStation 4No Man’s Sky creator: ‘We wanted to build a universe’
Swedish police have raided and seized computer and server equipment in Stockholm, taking the notorious piracy site the Pirate Bay offline.The site, which has survived the arrest and jailing of its founders, several attempts to remove it from the internet and blockade by internet service providers (ISPs) in the UK and internationally, has been unavailable for more than 24 hours.“We had a crackdown on a server room in greater Stockholm because of a copyright infringement, and yes it was Pirate Bay,” said Paul Pinter, national co-ordinator for intellectual property crime at Stockholm County Police.He said that Rights Alliance, a Swedish anti-piracy group, had made the complaint. Sara Lindback, its head, said that Pirate Bay was “an illegal commercial service” making “considerable earnings by infringing the works of others”.Servers and computers seizedSources quoted byBitTorrent news site TorrentFreakhave confirmed that the servers seized in the raid belonged to the Pirate Bay. Despite several sites appearing to be the piracy site briefly coming back online, it has not yet been resurrected.Several sites affiliated with the Pirate Bay, including EZTV, Zoink, Torrage, Istole, bayimg.com, pastebay.net and Pirate Bay’s internet forum suprbay.org, have also been taken offline.Fredrik Ingblad, a Swedish intellectual property crime prosecutor, said: “There were a number of police officers and digital forensics experts there. This took place during the morning and continued until this afternoon. Several servers and computers were seized, but I cannot say exactly how many.”It is not known whether Swedish authorities also seized the Pirate Bay domain names as part of their action against the piracy site.The Pirate Bay has been blocked at the ISP level in the UK since 2012. Users of the site have been able to circumvent the court-ordered block by accessing proxy sites, which replicate the Pirate Bay services and pull data from the main site when a user accesses them operating as a relay.Many of these proxy sites are still operating despite the primary Pirate Bay site being taken offline, but they have no data of their own and are essentially crippled by the removal of the Pirate Bay from the internet.•Hollywood director: piracy is necessary, and doesn’t hurt revenues•Pirate Bay co-founder Peter Sunde: ‘In prison, you become brain-dead’•Pirate Bay co-founder arrested in Thailand
The FBI has questioned North Korea’s involvement in the cyberattack that crippled Sony Pictures computers and leaked confidential data and films.A senior FBI official said that they had been unable to confirm links between the hack and Pyongyang or affiliated groups.“There is no attribution to North Korea at this point,” Joe Demarest, assistant director of the FBI’s cyber divisiontold a panelat a cybersecurity conference.‘What the bad guys get from the breach is absolutely preventable’Despite indicationsin the software used in the attack, Pyongyang’s promise of “merciless counter-measures” against the Sony Pictures film The Interview andcontinued demandsfrom hackers to “stop immediately showing the movie of terrorism”, North Korea has officially denied involvement in the “righteous deed”.While security analysts have said that preventing sophisticated and well-funded cyber criminals from breaking into a company is very hard indeed, researchers have criticised Sony Pictures for its poor data security.“There is a lot of post-breach thinking,” Ken Levine, chief executive of security firm Digital Guardiantold Ars Technica. “What we are saying is, not that all breaches are preventable, but what the bad guys get from the breach is absolutely preventable.”“That minimum compliance [by law] is the goal speaks volumes about Sony Pictures’ attitude towards the security of their data,” said security analysts Thinkst ina report on the attacks. “Sony subsidiaries have fallen victim to tens of successful attacks in recent years, leading us to question the importance of security in the broader conglomerate.”‘Unparalleled and well-planned crime’The security firm hired by Sony to investigate the attack, FireEye, described the attack as an “unparalleled and well-planned crime, carried out by an organised group, for which neither SPE nor other companies could have been fully prepared” in aleaked report.Part of the data stolen from Sony during the attack included security certificates that are used to digitally sign or vouch for software.Security firmKaspersky Lab discoverednew malware like that used in the attack on Sony Pictures being deployed in further attacks against other companies. The malware had been signed and authorised by Sony Pictures, allowing it to bypass certain security checks.The FBIissued a warningthat hackers are using malicious software to launch destructive attacks in the US against businesses, similar to the attack on Sony Pictures.•Hackers claim responsibility for Sony PlayStation Network outage
