Launch audio playerBobbie Johnson visits Estonia's crack cybercrime unit, and Paul Carr – self-proclaimed new media whore – spills the beans about bad behaviour (and bad language) on the startup scene. Hot tubs! Bars! Unfeasible funding! Cover your ears! Nurse, the screens!Got a comment? Get in touch using any of the methods below, and don't forget toSkype usand join our newTwitter feed.• Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme•Get our Twitter feed for updates on the programme across the week•Join our Facebook group•Join our Flickr groupSubscribe via iTunesDownload mp3Podcast feed URL
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Dell is unmatched as a high-volume supplier, but its business model doesn't work as well when it can only achieve low sales volumes. It therefore waited until portable MP3 players had become a substantial market before launching its own system in 2003, then dropped out in 2006, when it failed to get more than 3% or so of the US market.It could soon be back. A report inThe Wall Street Journalsays:Dell has been testing a digital music player that could go on sale as early as September, said several Dell officials. Launching the player -- along with an online download service and related software -- would be part of a strategy that Dell Chief Executive Michael Dell hopes will move the company into a broader range of consumer markets than it has served before.This time, it looks as though its approach will be based onZing, a music site it bought last year. And it will go beyond music players, according to Michael Tatelman, Dell's vice president of consumer sales.Zing, he said, will be used as a basis for an entire line of new consumer PCs and other products. That lineup, Mr Tatelman said, will give customers access to whatever source of music or movie content they want, "rather than being dictated by a device and a single service."The hope among Dell executives is that by integrating their PCs with entertainment software -- and streamlining the external design of their computers -- they will attract the type of consumer who would typically buy an Apple computer, but might be put off by restrictions that often apply to sharing music purchased from Apple [via] the iTunes store.Whether Dell can make it work is another matter, but it's not betting the farm on a new strategy. However, it's conclusive proof of the death of the "Dell religion," which could be summarized as "selling standard boxes directly to consumers at the lowest practicable price".Dell no longer focuses on the lowest price: it has "value" lines such as Vostro, consumer lines such as the Studio range, a high end performance line (XPS), and lots of business lines. It sells direct and via retail stores, and has a big services business that does things like manage fleets of corporate PCs. And while most of its sales are based on openly available market standards -- they are platform sales -- Zing shows it adding an experience-based integrated approach.And, of course, there's nothing odd about this. Dell is a $60+ billion business. Like Ford, it's diversifying.What we have yet to see is whether -- or how quickly -- Dell can change its image from the one that underpins the old Dell religion to reflect the new reality.In passing, it would be interesting to know if Dell had looked at basing its new MP3 offering on Microsoft's Zune. The two companies are, after all, major partners. And the Zune is basically a good player: it has a better user interface than the classic iPod, better sound quality, and sociability features. Unfortunately, if you wanted to pick a company to turn big boxy Zunes into something sexy, you wouldn't pick Dell, and for the same reasons, Dell probably wouldn't pick Zune.
A British man who hacked into computers at the Pentagon will face trial in the US after the law lords ruled that he should be extradited.At the House of Lords this morning, Gary McKinnon, 42, was told that his appeal against extradition would not be granted.McKinnon, an unemployed computer systems administrator from north London, invaded computer systems belonging to the US military in 2001 – shortly after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.He said he was merely searching for evidence of extraterrestrial life, but American officials labelled him the world's most dangerous hacker and accused him of deleting important files and causing hundreds of thousands of dollars' worth of damage.According to prosecutors, McKinnon scanned more than 73,000 US government computers and hacked into 97 machines belonging to the US army, navy, air force and Nasa.His lawyers have fought vigorously against the extradition, arguing that McKinnon could face up to 60 years in prison as a result of his actions, and could even be classed as an "enemy combatant" and interned at Guantánamo Bay. Instead they argued that he should face prosecution under Britain's more lenient computer crime laws because he carried out the hacking from his bedroom in London.But the law lords today rejected that argument. "The difference between the American system and our own is not perhaps so stark as the appellant's argument suggests," said Lord Brown of Eaton-under-Heywood in his ruling."It is difficult to think of anything other than the threat of unlawful action which could fairly be said so to imperil the integrity of the extradition process as to require the accused to be discharged irrespective of the strength of the case against him."In a statement, McKinnon's legal team said it would be taking the appeal to the European Court of Human Rights."Gary McKinnon is neither a terrorist nor a terrorist sympathiser," the statement said. "His case could have been properly dealt with by our own prosecuting authorities. Instead, we believe that the British government declined to prosecute him to enable the US government to make an example of him."American officials involved in this case have stated that they want to see him 'fry'. The consequences he faces if extradited are both disproportionate and intolerable and we will be making an immediate application to the European Court to prevent his removal."
It's an exciting week for the folks who're working onSpaceship!, the Wikigame. Not only do we have a new and improved, high-performance updateddemowhich has integrated your many thoughts and suggestions, but one of our number is on the road to becoming a dad.T minus a few hours!Note: the new demo will be up when the baby's arrived.We had a phenomenal response to the lastdemo, and we'd like to single out thanks to the following people for their suggestions:AndyKisaragi(for contributions to spanners)Beelzebubbles(for contributions to scoring efficiency)Tiel(for contributions to 'help')Cheers as well to the anonymous folks who added their tuppences!While the content of the latest demo is essentially the same, there have been several improvements, undertaken by the irrepressible DennisChow, including: * There's now a tutorial mode for people new to interactive fiction courtesy of an extension from IF heroineEmily Short* A few basic hints have been added in case people get stuck* Slightly improved the code efficiency* Some new content added that was written by Cavalcade on the wiki* Our player now has his headache -- but can he find the aspirin?As you play through, please do add any problems or ideas you think would make the game a better place to be tothis form.We are officially recruiting for testers, so if you'd like to get into the game first and to contribute to its eventual final state,add your name here!Finally - and here's an amusing task - we'd love to get your suggestions for thedeath scenes. After all, the protagonist only has a limited amount of oxygen and time does pass quickly in space...Suggestions on a virtual postcardhere.Ways to play the demo:Play in your browserPlay in a java appletDownload file to play in any zcode interpretor
Apple's cult of secrecy has been much in the news in the past couple of weeks, but one area where it's being felt - and hard - is by developers trying to write for the iPhone. They're caught in a catch-22: if they want to program for it, they have to sign up for the Software Developers' Kit (SDK). But that comes with a Non-Disclosure Agreement (NDA) that bans them from talking publicly about it.Which means that when they hit a programming roadblock, they have no easy way of getting around it: they can't take the usual, modern shortcut that's been popular since the advent of search engines, and search for key words; they can't even join a mailing list to talk about it, because there isn't one.That's led to some substantial annoyance among Apple developers. Craig Hockenberry of Iconfactory, makers of (among others) Twitterriffic (a client for Twitter) was, I think, the first to express his displeasure most publicly and cointhe phrasethat's now earned awebsite all of its own.And it's not only developers: asArs Technica reports, Addison-Wesley was going to have a book out on iPhone programming this month. Uh-uh, would-be author Erica Sadun: that would break the NDA.But could this somehow be good for Apple, because it means people can't, I dunno, write hacks for the iPhone? No, says Brent Simmons, writer of the feed reader NetNewsWire: ""I don't know of any successful platform that developers can't actually talk about online."Key word there:successful.Chuq von Rospach, who used to run Apple's mailing lists, isscathing:I can only think of two reasons the NDA is still in place. Neither puts Apple in a good light:1) the person responsible for dropping the NDA went on vacation and forgot their iPhone.2) Apple is using this as a quiet hammer to limit developer's ability to talk about problems with the new iPhone, MobileMe, the App store, etc, etc, until Apple fixes the worst of the problems.It's pretty clear that 2.0 was a subset of "the real 2.0" and that stuff was left out and not really ready for prime time, and OS 2.1 seems to be adding most of the functionality that should have been in 2.1, and hopefully pushes all of this out of "you're really beta testing our stuff, we just didn't mention that" mode.But really, either someone is asleep at the wheel, or someone's trying to do damage control, and both are bad. In fact, they're just creating a different problem, one maybe harder to fix later. And it serves very little useful purpose.In alater post, von Rospach notes that private lists are possible - but they're a hassle:Apple has at times run private lists and forums for beta/NDA setups. I used to run them on lists.apple.com (and its predecessors) as lists, and back in the mid-90's I built a site around Web Crossing that ran private forums for various projects to support the nice Developer Support people.The problem is that validation of NDAs and keeping the subscription up to list is somewhat labor intensive and honestly, a lot of project groups just weren't that into it. It was sometimes a challenge to convince them they actually needed people monitoring the public lists (yet another time I almost got my butt fired, and would have gone willingly over that issue...), and so over time, the folks who thought this stuff was important more or less lost a war of attrition and it all faded to black. But there was a time from about the mid-90's to the early 2000's where a bunch of this stuff was going on behind the scenes, and the technologies exist there today to support it, if there were people willing to do the non-technical aspects of it.Long and short of it: Apple's keeping the NDA locked down so people can't hack the iPhone. (It wishes. It already is.) But with von Rospach gone, it seems to have lost the will to run private mailing lists to support its developers.Perhaps it's forgotten the lesson from Microsoft: feed your developers, and everything works well. Consider that there's an estimate 1,000+ apps on the iPhone App Store - of whichabout 100 are reckoned to be even worth the disk space. How is Apple going to improve that ratio? Not via an NDA.
Sir Richard Branson beamed in to the Mojave desert in California on Monday to unveil the latest addition to human space travel - anexotic craft that will carry a passenger shipto 50,000ft (15,240 metres) before releasing it into space.Yesterday Glenn Martin unveiled an equally exotic craft, a jetpack that has taken test pilots to altitudes as high as 3ft. Martin, who describes his machine as the "world's first practical jetpack", is confident that by next year he can make a staple of science fiction a reality. "If you can fly it at 3ft, you can fly it at 3,000," he said.Martin, a New Zealand inventor, plans to sell his jetpack to Buck Rogers wannabes for $100,000 (&pound;50,000). And although the jetpack - not actually powered by jets, but by rotors - is more of a Heath Robinson-style contraption than the sleek device of the popular imagination, he trusts enthusiasts will be drawn to the freedom and excitement of solo flying."If someone says, 'I'm not going to buy a jetpack until it's the size of my high school backpack and has a turbine engine in it', that's fine," he said. "But they're not going to be flying a jetpack in their lifetime."The jetpack, unveiled at the Experimental Aircraft Association's AirVenture show in Oshkosh, Wisconsin, is powered by a V4 petrol engine running two large rotors. Aviation authorities have classed it as an experimental ultra-light airplane."It was very loud, very noisy, very hot. It was like a beast that roars," one of Martin's test pilots - his wife, Vanessa - said of an early flight. "But once you throttle up, you feel it bite, and you leave the ground, and there's this feeling of floating and freedom - you become quite overwhelmed."In May, a Swiss test pilot stepped out of a plane to fly to ground at 186mph wearing a jet-powered wing.
I don't want to get into the tiring 'videogames as art' debate, but as an occasional art writer, I do try to keep up to date with interesting exhibitions and have blogged about artists who, I feel, explore and interrogate the depiction of landscapes in a similar way to game designers.The above work is a good example. Suzanne Moxhay is a young British artist whose first solo exhibition, Borderlands, can currently be seen at theTricycle Galleryin Kilburn. Not only does the event share its name with Gearbox's forthcomingshooter, but Moxhay has a game designer's eye for apocalyptic environments, scale and drama. From the press release:Using a process of re-photographing collected imagery, the borderland refers equally to the physical boundaries of a landscape as it could to an uncertain psychological state. Her work delves between the 'reality' of the photograph and the illusory staged nature of the theatrical or cinematic. Imagery selected references film genre iconography such as the Western, Sci-fi or Horror, finding parallels between the world of National Geographic and the fictionalised worlds depicted in film. Using these filmic conventions, Moxhay conflates the boundaries between 'real' and psychological space.These boundaries are a huge part of game design - lots of modern titles seek not to replicate 'real-life' but to enhance it, mostly though post-processing effects that add stylised tints and other lighting tricks to each frame (see Race Driver GRID for example). We're also seeing games like Resident Evil 5 which exaggerate phenomena like sun glare for dramatic effect.The exhibition runs until August 16 and is well worth a look. Here's another example of Moxhay's work, plus a full version of the above image:SwarmTornado
I've just got back home from the first day at Develop, with a dictaphone filled with interviews, but also - unfortunately - the remnants of a hangover from last night's pub quiz. It was great to see four teams made up of Gamesblog readers - really hope you enjoyed the night. We're in discussions with Game City about running a follow-up there, so get swotting up on your game trivia...I'll start posting my stuff from Develop tomorrow, but for now, here's some good stuff from around the web...Warhammer Onlinecreative director Paul Barnett gave the talk of the day, relating the somewhat taxing development process of this potential WoW beater. BothEurogamerandGamesindustry.bizhave interesting excerpts, with Barnett essentially criticising MMO developers for slavishly cribbing Blizzard's epic. I also spoke to Barnett who gave me some fascinating stuff on game design theory - more of that later.Meanwhile, Pocketgamer.biz haslots of stufffrom M:Metric analyst Alistair Hill's stat-packed chat:He started with some basic facts. There are 47.5 million mobile users in the UK, of whom 28.4 per cent are classed as 'mobile media users' - defined as anyone who browses, downloads or uses an application. That's 13.5 million Brits."It's getting towards tipping point," says Hill, citing 30 per cent as a commonly accepted definition of a tipping point, where something becomes "ingrained in our society".His first graph showed that playing a game is the largest behaviour of mobile media - around 30 per cent of mobile users do it in most countries. That's play mobile games, rather than purchase, mind.Interestingly Hill also showed that the most popular mobile gaming genres in Europe are arcade puzzle, strategy, quiz and word or number games. But as Pocket Gamer's Stuart Dredge points out, "There are still shedloads more action games out there than there is demand for them. Yet there are still less arcade puzzle, card, casino and quiz games than there is demand". Yep, the industry is making thewronggames. And lots of them. The Washington Post has a quick round-up on the rest of the mobile stuff, including Nokia's hints that it may start developing games with the same assets as XBLA and PSN projects, possibly suggesting some multi-platform and perhaps even cross-platform titles. This certainly seems to be the direction the company is going in, indicated by the excellent N-Gage title,Reset Generation- which I'm still waiting for Nokia to supply me with. Hello? Nokia? HELLO?!
Just in case you missed it, this week's most surprising bit of news was that Newsnight editor Peter Barron is turning away from telly to become a PR -for Google.It's a strange move: Barron will be moving from the BBC's flagship current affairs programme to take up the role of chief flack for Google's director of communications for the UK, Ireland and Benelux... taking over from current incumbent DJ Collins, who is moving up to take over European PR operations.I'm not theonly onescratching myhead about this, but one outcome seems certain: Barron will surely be using his contacts to get his old Auntie pals the inside scoop from the Googleplex: expect a series of searing exposes on the wonders of 20% time and the company's amazing cafeteria to hit the BBC sometime in the autumn.
In this week's Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski,Charles ArthurandJemima Kiss...Bobbie Johnsonflies to the Baltic to visit a crack cybercrime unit in Estonia – the most technologically advanced nation in central Europe.Plus, Paul Carr – self-proclaimed new media whore – is in the studio to spill the beans on the bad behaviour behind the smiles on the start-up scene.We also provide you with a run-down of this week's tech news and relay your feedback and the latest from the blogs.Don't forget to:•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
The inauguralGamesblog pub quizrocked theCaroline of Brunswickpub in Brighton last night, leaving several people with tender heads for the start ofDevelop. Keith and I hosted the event, treating a whopping 14 teams - that's at least 84 people - to two general knowledge rounds, a music and sounds round, a drawing round and a plasticine modelling round. Topical yet off-topic, it was a resounding success. And don't just take my word for it -check out the plethora pics from the evening- including all the entries in the 'Gordon Brown Strikes Back' screenshot round and all the entries in the Team GB 2012 Olympic hopefuls modelling round. If you were there, throw your pics into thegamesblog flickr pooland share!Cheers to all the teams who came, including the 4 gamesblog reader teams, and the crews from Black Rock, Linden Lab, NCSoft, Zoe Mode, Relentless, Microsoft/Rare/Pixel-Lab, Gamesindustry.biz, Pocket Gamer and Eurogamer. Big props to Gamesindustry/Eurogamer, our champions, who went away with £75 in prize money and copies of the Guinness Book of Worlds Records (Gamers Edition).And three massive cheers to ElQuesoDiablo who won the question competition. Only 1 team answered his question right:Paulineis the name of the woman Donkey Kong kidnaps. Congrats! You win a book as well. Thanks to everyone who submitted questions. We have plenty now for the next quiz which will be held in Nottingham during GameCity.
"Time Capsule recorded in 1987, looking into the future of 1997. Woz, Yocam, Sculley, Spindler" says the blurb.viaWaxy
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
This month's announcement of a back-room deal betweenISPs (internet service providers) and the big record companies to spy on suspected copyright infringersand reduce the quality of their internet connections is just the latest paragraph in the record industry's long, self-pitying suicide note, and it's left me wishing they'd just pull the trigger already and stop beating their chests and telling us all howunfairit all is.Under the new scheme, the rule of law is replaced by a cosy inter-industry deal. Whereas before, anyone who wanted your ISP to spy on your internet connection would have had to show evidence to a judge and get a court order, now any joker who claims to be an aggrieved copyright holder can do so.And whereas actual criminals are punished by judges who make rulings that are proportional to the offence, and which are calculated to minimise external harm, the new scheme allows ISPs and their pals in the record industry to randomly shake up your connection like a snow-globe, dropping some or all of your services – whether you're using your VoIP phone to speak to your dying granny in Australia or downloading the latest hit single from the guy who did the "Crazy Frog Song".They claim that the surveillance data will only be used to police copyright and not to spy on every communication you make. But Transport for London claimed that Oyster cards would only be used to simplify paying for travel, and not to bulk-surveil Londoners, and yet here we are. As novelists say, "A gun on the mantle in act one is bound to go off by act three."I'm a science fiction writer by trade, but even I am impressed by the incredible inventiveness on display in the figures used by the record industry to justify this measure: they add up all the kids who've downloaded a song this week, multiply by the highest retail price, add 30% to account for the wear and tear on their faces from tugging at their beards in dismay, and announce a billion quid "piracy loss" that government and ISPs have to step up and do something about right now, please and thanks, and forget about all that tedious law business.The law is for "minor crimes" like rape and murder – when it comes to serious crimes like downloading songs, we need a "streamlined process" that makes the War on Terror look like a slow-moving, cautious thing.Will this stop kids from trading infringing files? Kids are time-rich and cash-poor and have an infinite supply of ingenuity and impecuniousness to apply to the job of getting music for free. Last year, my freshman university students in Los Angeles regaled me with stories of "hard-drive parties" where everyone would gather with guitars, beers and whopping great hard drives that cost less than either the guitars or the beers. While the students jammed, sang and danced, they simply synchronised their drives using whatever laptops were lying around, transferringhundreds of gigabytes' worth of musicwhile composing and recording songs of their own.It made me wish I was a teenager again: that sounded a lot more fun than painstakingly recording my vinyl to 90-minute cassettes and shyly giving them to girls in the hope of impressing them.So no, I don't think this is going to have any appreciable effect on filesharing. However, itwillsucceed in driving music-swapping even further underground, to encrypted protocols and offline hard-drive parties and private swapping networks. These are every bit as efficient at getting music into the hands of kids, but they're a lot harder to monitor and charge money for.The original Napster had a fine proposition: they would charge their users for signing onto their network and write a cheque for as-many-billions-as-you-like to the record industry every quarter. After all, they had the fastest-growing technology in the history of the world at their disposal, 70 million internet users in 18 months, and they'd found that the average American user was willing to spend $15 a month for the service. The record industry sued them into a smoking hole instead, and out of the ashes of Napster arose dozens of new networking technologies. Each one was more hardened against monitoring and disconnection than the last.These days, if you wanted to charge a flat fee for access to all music (something that consumers all over the world would be eager to accept), you'd have to do stuff that's a lot more complicated and funky to get anything like the clean reports we'd have gotten off of Napster 1.0.And yet that's just what we're going to end up doing. It's historically inevitable: whenever technology makes it impossible to police a class of copyright use, we've solved the problem by creating blanket licences.The record industry itself was the first beneficiary of this system: when the US sheet-music publishers sued the record-makers for selling recordings of their compositions, they were given a simple solution: anyone is allowed to record your music, provided they pay you a set fee for it. No one has to pay a lawyer $500/hour to negotiate whether this track on this album will cost $0.10 per disc or $0.05. And when the record companies objected to the radio stations playing their discs without compensation or permission, the answer was a blanket licence for records played on air. It's the tried-and-true answer to the problem of copyright-disrupting technology:* acknowledge that it's going to happen;* find a place to collect a toll;* charge a fee that's low enough to get buy-in from the majority;* ignore the penny-ante fee evaders;* sue the blistering crap out of the big-time fee-evaders.This is the shareholder-value-maximising answer that actually brings revenue into the pockets of artists and record companies. It co-opts the majority of filesharers into being active participants in a legitimate transaction instead of everyone starting off as outlaws who have nothing to lose and no reason to come to the bargaining table except for fear of legal reprisals (this fear is notoriously ineffective at moderating the behavior of children).Ten years ago, the record industry had a simple little problem they could have solved by showing a tiny amount of future-looking flexibility. A decade of intransigence and stubborness has bred a killer strain of antibiotic-resistant filesharing technology that grows more and more difficult to police by the year. The sheet music publishers didn't get to control the destiny of the record companies, who couldn't control the broadcasters, who couldn't control the cable operators, who couldn't control the VCR makers.The record industry will not be in charge of the characteristics of filesharing systems. They may get remunerated for their use, but they won't be able to dictate their functionality, no matter how many children they criminalise. If they want to cash in on filesharing, they'd better do it soon, before every potential licence fee payer decides to opt out of the system forever.
What's your favourite piece of technology?It may be a bit of a cop-out, but I think I'll have to say myiPhone. I know it's the current bandwagon gadget, but it is so slick I can't stop scrolling and zooming in and out. I haven't been so jazzed about a piece of technology like this since broadband internet.How has it improved your life?Are you kidding??? I can scroll around and zoom in and out with my finger! Life doesn't get any better. Everything should be multitouch ... everything legal, anyways.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Text, text, text. I text-message all day long. It makes the tedious task of talking to people in RL [real life] a thing of the past.What additional features would you add if you could?The ability to control more things around the house. TV, stereo, coffeemaker, my car, etc. Actually, it needs a faster internet connection ... are you listening Apple?Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I hope so. By then it should be a contact lens with all kinds of cool digital readouts and be controlled by thought and have audio implants that only I can hear and a sexy feminine voice. The future isn't the future until you have a sexy feminine voice.What one tip would you give to non-iPhone users?Once you multitouch, you'll never be able to touch anything else the same way ever again.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?Hmmm ... I'm going to go with nerd. I don't know what a Luddite is. Sounds like a crusty rash or brand of luggage.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've owned?My 63" Samsung plasma TV. It's a monster. I swear whenever I approach it, it hums the 2001: A Space Odyssey theme. I'm so smitten with it.Mac or PC?Macs are clever, but PCs play videogames, so I'll have to say PC. And yes, I know Macs have games too. *rolls eyes*What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Right now it's all Arctic Monkeys. My favourite song would probably be Only Ones Who Know.Will robots rule the world?I hope so. I'm too lazy.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I think I would have to say the 65-metre Phoenix 1000 personal luxury submarine. It's a freakin' submarine for Pete's sake! Or an army of Fembots ... whichever is cheaper.Activision'sCall of Duty 4: Modern Warfareis out now for most platforms. AndGuardian game reviewer Greg Howson liked it quite a bit
Todd Bishop's Microsoft Blog at the Seattle PI newspaper has a video of Hrvoje Benko of Microsoft Research demonstratingSphere, a spherical touch screen display. It's a research project not a product, but Benko suggests it could be used as an information point in high-traffic areas such as exhibitions. It can also, of course, work as a globe. The story says:Sphere is a cousin of the Microsoft Surface tabletop computer, already being used in retail and hospitality settings. The underlying hardware for Sphere is sold commercially byGlobal Imaginationof Los Gatos, Calif., but Microsoft researchers made numerous enhancements and developed specialized software.
Calm before the gaming storm anyone? Things may be quiet on the release front at the moment - roll on Madden '09 - but come September things get interesting again. Spore, Force Unleashed, PES 2009 (could this be the year that FIFA "wins"), Fable 2 and Tomb Raider: Underworld all spring to mind. But top of my most wanted list isFallout 3. Oblivion with guns - and better voice acting - would do me just fine but Fallout 3 promises a whole lot more. I'm speaking to Pete Hines from Bethesda, the developers of Fallout 3, on Friday. If you've got any questions - specifically Fallout 3 but happy to throw in a few Oblivion ones too - please stick them in the comments.
A Californian start-up co-founded by engineers who helped create Google's market-leading technology launched a rival search engine yesterday. It claims to scan three times as many web pages as Google but met with a lukewarm response.Cuil.com, pronounced "cool.com", may present a problem for people who access the internet at work, as it is just a small typing error away from an Italian hardcore pornographic website, Culi.com.The website claims to have indexed more than 120bn web pages compared with Google's estimated 40bn, was set up by Anna Patterson, its president, who worked at Google and helped create the company's index of the internet, which is consulted when a search term is entered.Her husband, Cuil's chief executive and fellow co-founder Tom Costello, is a former researcher from Stanford University, where Google's founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, met, and worked with IBM on its search technology. Russell Power, its fellow co-founder and Cuil's head of engineering, also worked atGoogle. The team has raised about $33m (&pound;17m) from Silicon Valley investors.The website looks very different from Google, presenting results - with pictures in many cases - in a magazine-type format rather than as a long list of links. Cuil claims to have an edge by looking not just at words but the concepts they embody.A search for "Radiohead", for instance, will bring up not just the band's own website but ticket sellers and lyrics. But the site is far from perfect: the Radiohead search pulled up a picture of a woman in twin set and pearls as its second link. The website also crashed several times yesterday.As one commentator on the technology website TechCrunch put it yesterday: "If this wasn't started by some ex-Googlers, nobody would give a hoot."
I think it has. I've always hated playing "games" on my phone - I mean honestly why bother? From the hoop jumping needed to actually find and buy a game to the fiddly controls required to play, mobile gaming has been, at best, a limp facsimile of what you can find on the DS and PSP. Until now. Yup, you've guessed it - the iPhone has won me over. I've been hugely impressed with what I've played so far.Super Monkey Ballis probably the best paid for game. It looks fantastic - think PSP standard - although over sensitive controls are a real issue, at least to me anyway. Best not play if you have the caffeine shakes.But the joy of iPhone gaming is the free stuff.Aurora Feint- a Puzzle Quest style mix of Bejeweled and fantasy - is my current favourite. It lacks the depth of Puzzle Quest and is a little rough around the edges but these are early days. As well as being free the developers are pitching the game as the first step in becoming the iPhone's first massively multiplayer game. Ambitious stuff, particularly givenrecent issueswith the game, but this is definitely one to watch.Of course, the delivery mechanism is key to all this. Despite some navigation foibles iTunes makes trying and buying mobile gaming easier than ever. But while Nokia and co should be worried Nintendo and Sony needn't be over concerned yet - the DS and PSP are far more flexible gaming devices than the current iPhone. But clearly the battle for gaming in your hand has just hotted up. Anyone here gaming on their iPhone? Or will nothing convert you to mobile gaming?
In many cases nowadays, home is where the office is, and Business Week invited readers to submit photos of their home offices.It says:Responses rolled in, describing everything from a teakwood bungalow in Thailand to a goat-and-chicken farm in Northern California. We selected 10 of the best. Flip through this slide show for a look, then vote for your favorite at the end. We'll post the top vote-getter on our staff blog on Aug. 1.I'm not sure I find the one above convincing (Manu Kumar, 37), but I'm too much of a coward to show you mine....
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
It's a bit chaotic around gamesblog towers today; Greg and Keith are in transit to Brighton and I'm finalising the questions fortonight's quiz, so we beg forgiveness for the dearth of news and views to start your week.However, here's a link from last week -the Tech Weekly podcast's virtual worlds special! If you've not heard it, we decided to take a trip into the realm of online games - from World of Warcraft to Moshi Monsters - to check out their appeal and their implications (as Ialluded toin a post last week). Joining me in the pod were The Guardian's resident virtual world expertVic Keeganand virtual worlds consultant, author and philosopherRen Reynolds. We get deep.Plus, how ethical are virtual worlds targeted at kids? We speak with the BBC's Marc Goodchild about their new titleAdventure Rock, Michael Smith from Mind Candy aboutMoshi Monstersand Lisa Ray fromParents for Ethical Marketing.Quick! Get in! The next pod will be releasedtomorrowand you'll have missed out on all the virtual world goodies...
Despite the fact that Parliament has risen (so that it's officially the silly season - hey, was that a UFO flying past?), the Home Office is still busy at it. Today, it'sput out a press releasesaying thatEvery neighbourhood in England and Wales will have access to the latest local crime information through new interactive crime maps, Home Secretary Jacqui Smith announced today.The rollout of interactive crime maps follows the announcement made by the Home Secretary earlier this month, as part of the Policing Green Paper, that every police force in the country has now delivered monthly crime information to the public on their websites. New interactive crime maps will take the rollout of local crime information to the next level.By the end of the year every police force area will produce crime maps which will allow the public to:* see where and when crime has happened, down to street level for some crimes;* make comparisons with other areas; and* learn how crime is being tackled by their local neighbourhood policing team.We think that the last of those is going to be very interestingindeed, since for senior police officers it will (in a nice phrase I heard on a related topic from a civil servant recently) "hold their feet to the fire". (Strange how one has to summon images of torture when trying to get some public services to change..)Coincidentally, we've had some interesting emails on the topic: one fromZubedpi.com(which, you'll find, does some crime mapping).And another reader wrote in at length:"About 3 - 4 years ago I worked temporarily in Bury MBC's Housing Department. There was a man in the Chief Executive's department who had a GIS containing 3-years-worth of police crime data. He could rustle you up a map of recorded crimes, varying by type and date, for any local area you chose, on request. So it can't be that difficult to do it."In the early 1970's I was Area Housing Manager at Speke in Liverpool. My office was in the middle of this Council-built area some 6,000 houses and flats and the local police station was just across the street. This was long before we had computers for anything except (batch processed) rent accounting and it was before "defensible space" became an idea in good currency amongst urban designers."Following a disturbing interview with a widow with three children whose chronic poverty had been made even worse by being burgled 5 times in 6 months, I enlisted the help of the station sergeant. I gave him a 1:2500 plan of the estate and, at my request, he went through the station's day book for 6 months past, putting a red felt-tip dot against the address of each recorded burglary."He returned the plan to me saying "I've done what you asked and it looks like a bad case of measles, but I'm none the wiser." As soon as I saw the plan I was immediately the wiser. The "measles" were overwhelmingly clustered around particular styles and types of dwellings, and the 3-storey walk-up open-plan flats, where the widow lived, were many times more likely to be burgled than (say) the semi-detached houses."I subsequently extracted £30,000-worth of additional fencing from my bosses to enhance security. (Quite a lot in 1974.)"The point of the story is not that I was cleverer than the police sergeant; I'm sure I wasn't. The point is that a policeman's eyes see a residential area one way, and a housing manager sees it another. Who knows what might be achieved if lots of people could see the data and bring their distinctive perceptions and intelligences to its analysis and interpretation?What indeed?Simon Dicksonis a bit dubious about how easy it will be for government to do this; Steven Feldman (who I think we could fairly call a sceptic about Free Our Data - which is fine; an unopposed theory has no strength) has pointed out thatpostcodes sometimes give more detail away than you'd think(personally, I suspect that domestic violence will be excluded from these visible crime stats).So we'll wait to see. By Christmas? Sounds fun.
If you're planning tosee a movie, rent a DVD, buy a CD or – most importantly – a video game, then Metacritic is the place to go. It reads the reviews so you don't have to, then adds up the ratings to provide a single metascore out of 100. It's a consensus view, and it carries weight.Of course, you could argue for days about whether Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon (which scores 93) is a better movie than Raging Bull (92), but that's not the point. What you can instantly see from Metacritic is that The Dark Knight gets a green light (82), Mamma Mia! is on amber (scoring 51, with mixed reviews) and Space Chimps is at red (35). Job done.Metacritic has some powerful rivals in the movie business. IMDb, for example, provides the most amazing detail, while Rotten Tomatoes adds news and features to its metascoring. Where Metacritic wins is in covering DVDs, TV series, audio CDs, books andvideo games, as well as new movies.Metacritic's scores are particularly important in the games business, as the site's co-founder and games editor Marc Doyle explained to The Guardian's games blog. A moviegoer spends $10 and two hours on a movie, whereas a gamer can spend $60 on a title expected to last 30 to 50 hours. Buying a game is a bigger commitment, so there is more incentive to find the best.Metascores are compiled from a highly select group of (mostly American) sources such as daily newspapers, weekly magazines and prominent websites. The emphasis is on quality, not quantity. Each review is converted into a numeric score, but again, not all reviews are equal: the big names carry more weight, as decided by Metacritic's section editor. Metascores change as more reviews appear, but quickly settle down. For those who care, the site has a long explanation: How We Calculate Our Scores.One drawback with Metacritic is that it doesn't go very far back. The site was launched in January 2001 by three "former attorneys who were happy to find a more constructive (but less profitable) use of their time", and was acquired by CNet Networks in 2005. It generally doesn't cover titles launched in the 1980s and 1990s, though it is adding classics "as time and resources permit".Also, Metacritic doesn't cover everything. It doesn't attempt to cover all the new CDs and books that appear every year – there are too many – or "straight to video" movies. If titles are not being reviewed in The New York Times,The Guardian, Newsweek, Empire and similar publications, or websites such as Pitchfork, Salon and Slate, then there won't be any scores for Metacritic to tally.And if you want more depth in support of a metascore, Metacritic provides brief quotations and links to the original reviews (if they are on the web). Just as a way to find from three to 33 good reviews of a recent title, Metacritic is worth knowing.
I'm annoyed with Google at the moment -- it is spamming me with intrusive Google Toolbar adverts on its main page -- so I might just give a rival a try. One launched today is calledCuil(or "cool"), which is "an old Irish word for knowledge," says the site.This is different from Google in that it displays results in two or three columns (thus reducing what on Google amounts to "the tyranny of the top hit"), quotes enough content to be useful, has an illustration with each entry, and does some clustering, It also claims to focus on content. The site says:Rather than rely on superficial popularity metrics, Cuil searches for and ranks pages based on their content and relevance. When we find a page with your keywords, we stay on that page and analyze the rest of its content, its concepts, their inter-relationships and the page's coherency.Cuil's other claim to fame is that it indexes more of the web than anybody else. At the moment, it says: "Search 121,617,892,992 web pages". This is presumably why Google posted a not very useful boast on its blog last week,We knew the web was big...But Cuil has some obvious drawbacks, even on two minutes' use. For example, it is no doubt a good idea to focus on content, but it gets a bit repetitive if you're faced with hits from basically the same content at different addresses. Another drawback: I searched for [google official blog] without any quotes, and got nothing from Cuil: It simplysays:We didn't find any results for "google official blog"Yeah, I do wish people would use [square brackets] to show what's typed into a search box, but there you go. The same search inGooglecorrectly finds Official Google Blog and 130m hits, not zero hits. If I'm not using quotation marks, I don't see why Cuil should be so picky about me misremembering Google's official word order.One thing in Cuil's favour is that its founders and staff have enough background (ie ex-Google employees) and backing to get coverage inThe New York Times,TechCrunch,Search Engine Landand evenThe Guardian.Whether it will actually do any better than Vivisimo, Teoma, Hakia, Kartoo, Wikia etc is another matter. Google is no longer winning by deliveringmuchbetter results than the competition (provablehere), it's winning by tying in other products (Gmail etc) and because we all love familiar things and don't like unfamiliar ones.So what can be done about the increasingly bad results that Google produces? The obvious answer is to use multiple vertical-market search engines that focus only on the topic you want. Google did this rather badly and the feature has been quietly buried away whereyou won't find it. (To be fair,Google Scholarseems to be more successful.)Scirusis one example, andKosmixis having a go. But I still wouldn't bet on specialist search engines taking off.....So, what do you think of Cuil? Or does nobody care any more?
Letting your mobile phone ring in the theatre? So passe, darling. And there's always the risk that if Richard Griffiths is in the cast he will lambast you from the stage. So the obnoxious technophile has hit on a new way to ruin the evening for those around them, one that will not attract the unwanted attention of actors, ushers or theatre management: the BlackBerry check.If you've never sat in a theatre behind someone checking their emails, you may wonder what the fuss is about. There's no ringtone; there's no speaking; there's no noise of any sort. But what there is, in a dark space where all attention should be focused on the stage, is light. Every few minutes, the bright square of the LCD screen flashing into pure white, just at the edge of one's field of vision; a distracting flicker that draws the eyes of those around it away from the actors and towards the emailer. Then the tiny tap-tap-tap of fingers on keys, just at the perimeter of one's hearing. It's the water torture of antisocial behavour, an accumulating drip-drip-drip of minuscule irritations.Theatres and cinemas now routinely play a pre-performance message asking patrons to turn off their mobile phones. Let this now be extended, and let me supply some new wording: "If you have a BlackBerry, please turn it off. If you're more interested in a message headed 'Chk ths!!!! LOL!!!!' than in the play, please retire to the bar to guffaw at viral hilarity. If you want to know the football score, then go to the football. And if you're so important that you must be contactable every minute of the day, and must offer instant decisions in response to every query, what the hell are you doing at the theatre instead of the office?"And, yes, man in seat F24 of the first circle at Sadler's Wells last Tuesday, I'm talking to you.
We don't have room inprintfor all your letters and blog pingbacks, but we do here. Radiohead's video and crime maps - open source ideas both, in a sense - got people talking...GPU POWER&gt;&gt; Sometimes the sluggishness of this computer becomes really annoying, particularly when it is doing what is a relatively simple task conceptually but is encumbered by 'bloatware'. Despite a fast processor and lots of RAM there are times when it just trundles along. Interesting then to read that programmers are working on unleashing the often underused power of the graphics card. Bristling with processors that lie largely idle (except in the heat of intense gaming) they represent an untapped power that could supercharge a PC's performance.learntechgalway.blogspot.comBT'S FIBRE DIETContrary to the impression given in your article of 17th July ("BT to spend £1.5bn installing fibre-optic cable to boost web speeds") Ofcom is not considering granting a "regulatory holiday" to BT, or to any other company, in respect of fibre investments in the local access network. We recognise that such investments are likely to be subject to greater risk and uncertainty than investments in the traditional copper network - investors will therefore expect to earn returns which compensate for these higher risks. Ofcom will not, and cannot, underwrite these investments but will take account of the additional risks when setting future price controls relating to these networks: not to do so would potentially hold back the development of higher speed broadband services in the UK. The promotion of competition remains central to our strategy. Competition in the broadband market has delivered significant benefits to consumers and businesses. We expect this trend to continue and be reinforced as fibre is deployed in the local network.  We plan to publish our proposals for the regulation of Next Generation Access (ie high speed access networks) in September. We will work with the industry generally, including BT, to ensure that the regulatory framework continues to encourage competition and innovation, to the continued benefit of customers throughout the UK. Stuart McIntosh, Partner, OfcomRADIOHEAD&gt;&gt; some call this open source content. Of course it's nothing of the sort. I'm sure the group is thrilled that Europe is moving toward 95-year copyrights. The House of Cards play means amateur videonerds have already created their own versions of the video — the music remains the property of the group.blogs.zdnet.com&gt;&gt; Very cool.p2pnet.net&gt;&gt; Being a musician myself, I like to see this kind of variant of the open source model applied in this way. I have also appreciated similar efforts from the band Nine Inch Nails. It has solicited actual musical parts and remixes--such as recorded guitar solos--from its audience on the Internet, and then incorporated the best ones in its songs, with credits for the contributors. Hey, what works works.ostatic.com&gt;&gt; May I remind the world that R.E.M. did an open source video for Supernatural Superserious. Supernatural Superserious.blackrimglasses.com&gt;&gt; To be honest, I seem to remember someone like The Orb or Meat Beat Manifesto doing this with songs about 13 years ago, where they released all the components of a track on a CD Rom and encouraged fans to make their own remixes (can anyone else remember this?) Still, talent imitates, genius steals and House of Cards, and Radiohead of course, are bloody genius.ciarannorris.co.uk&gt;&gt; 1991 Hull Tower Ballroom, Radiohead were supporting Humberside's answer to the Stone Roses, Kingmaker. They came on stage, they played Creep the room went wild, it was Hull. Hull is wild, come armed. I promptly obtained a bootleg cassette tape of Creep and sent it to my then girlfriend. 'Listen to this', I wrote, she did, she called my sister and told her to tell me I was dumped for saying I was a creep and weirdo and that I couldn't sing very well. She had mistaken me for Thom Yorke, but I wasn't, I'm not, I'm from Hull which is near York where Thom isn't from. That was then, this is now, Radiohead have gone open source, sort of and for added geek appeal teamed up with Google to showcase a staggering video created entirely from data visualization.fat-man-collective.com&gt;&gt; If nothing else, it makes good practice for aspiring animators and video makers!fantopro.typepad.com&gt;&gt; And marketing-wise? A success, no doubt. After 3 days it's already racked up more views on YouTube than a lot of it the band's older videos. And which music video has recently received that much attention in the broadsheet media (OK - it's the online version, but still). And has a collaboration with Google. But is that because Radiohead had a clever marketing plan? Or because it's a great piece of work and worth the attention? One last point. Is this the solution to the flailing music video business? Obviously not. Although I'm sure production companies are already thinking about how to 'implement' this and score a YouTube hit themselves, this video really is just one example of doing something creative that also gets noticed.leftrightandcentre.net&gt;&gt; in a digital world everything and anything can be remade all the time. nothing is set in stone. nothing is ever fixed, or finished for that matter. there is no definitive version of anything; only this version. which becomes your definitive version is yours to decide. It's a fun world to be in.chrisstephenson.typepad.com&gt;&gt; JUST IMAGINE WHAT THIS MEANS! Not country and western enough... fork! Copyright issues on logos... fork! Can't resize video screen... FORK! Though I think in the music business they call them re-mixes / mashups.tech.slashdot.org&gt;&gt; Yet another example of Radiohead pushing the mainstream music industry toward alternative ways to distribute and create music, and the media around it.news.cnet.comCRIME MAPPING&gt;&gt; Basically, if people build tools that help people solve local crime problems (rather than tools to just make people scared off going down a particular street, which seems to be the standard use-case for crime mapping) then crime mapping could really help the police do their job, and they should have nothing to be scared of in releasing the data.memespring.co.uk&gt;&gt; Boris Johnson called for the publication of crime maps back in February. If the Policing Green Paper goes through in the autumn, he may finally have the authority to release them. Crime maps are a powerful tool in fighting city-wide disorder when used effectively. If the Green Paper can deliver them for London, then it will be worth while.londonsays.orgUNFINISHED GAMESI knew there had to be a silver lining to all this credit crunch/recession doom'n'gloom, and lo: "the video games that will never see the light of day". Perhaps all those talented geeks could turn their attention to something more useful like, let me see, building an IT system for the NHS that actually works. Root Cartwright, Radlett&gt;&gt; One suggestion - more small developers - but industry imploding, converging - big companies willing to throw away a lot of innovative designs/ideas in order to protect development that looks like more of a sure thingprofkim.blogspot.comDROWNING IN DATAThe article in today's Technology Guardian was spot on – thank goodness for some common sense! Unfortunately, it's not just inside government. Company after company we work with is awash with people building and manipulating spreadsheets and spending large amounts of time cutting and pasting data from one system or spreadsheet to another. It seems to me that governments and companies have become completely obsessed with the idea that understanding and managing performance is best achieved by wading knee-deep through vast quantities of data. The sad fact is that huge data warehouses and impenetrable spreadsheets are two sides of the same miserable coin. Data warehouses and complex data analytics technology has become the elephant in the room which we are too scared to mention. The point is the components of performance in most government and commercial enterprises can be boiled down to a relatively small number of factors. I don't need to walk through an MRI scanner in my bedroom every morning to know whether or not my body is working well enough to leave the house and complete my schedule for the day. If I do have a particular problem I don't understand, I go to a doctor who may use various types of specialist equipment to get to the bottom of what's going on. And sometimes the answer isn't as clear cut as I would like it to be. The point is I don't need all that specialist measuring equipment to invade my life all the time, any more than most companies need complex analytical and measurement tools in-house and in use every day. Sometimes they might need to go to a specialist who deploys some specific measurement equipment, but these will be people who use analytics technology as a tool rather than an end in itself. In our business we constantly come across people who sincerely believe they need to know everything about everything before they can do anything. It's nonsense, of course, but it's our insecurity about exercising judgement about what really matters that always gives software companies a license to print money and creates industries of people creating and manipulating spreadsheets. Tim Burfoot, managing director, Teasel Performance Management Limited, CambridgeUNSAFE ONLINE? &gt;&gt; Most worms still look to open ports on PCs, so the best advice is to have a firewall installed or configured on a new PC before undertaking the rest of the patches needed to have a new machine ready for the Internet.thehermesproject.blogspot.com
The LA Timesreports:NBC, which broadcasts "Sunday Night Football," will make its television feed -- including Al Michaels' play-by-play and John Madden's commentary -- available on websites run by both the network and the league. The websites will offer blogs, statistics and other interactive elements along with the broadcast of the game.The network will sell advertising for the venture and share the revenue with the NFL.People will be watching to see if online viewing reduces NBC's audience, but it may not, according to NFL Network's chief executive Steve Bornstein:"Many of our fans watch games on television and they are on the computer at the same time," Bornstein said. "We think the online streams will be additive and complementary."The unaswered question is whether streams will be available to people outside the US, or whether foreigners will just get the familiar "sorry, not in your country" screen. That's what I'd expect.Update: Birty updates me in a comment (Thanks!): "The NFL have been broadcasting every game in the regular season for people outside the USA for the past two years."http://sports.yahoo.com/nflgamepass
I recently posted an item sayingYahoo Music buyers are approaching the DRM pain barrier. NowInformation Weekreports that Yahoo plans to reimburse customers, which is one good thing to do. IW says:"You'll be compensated for whatever you paid for the music," Davis told InformationWeek. "We haven't said exactly what we will do, but we will take care of our customers."There's now anFAQ.I also blogged another story,Google is trying to buy Digg for $200 million, says TechCrunch. Not surprisingly, and not for the first time, this story is failing to come true. TechCrunch has since said:Google Walks Away From Digg Deal.
Wired blogsasks the question, saying:Now, as Apple expands its reach from computers into music, video, consumer electronics and phones, it's getting harder and harder for the company to make sure all of its products "just work," as its marketing slogan goes. Its growing army of customers is getting more difficult to satisfy, and they're finding a host of new problems, ranging from tapeless camcorder issues to buggy iPhones."Apple has always seen that their benefit is being a closed environment, but they've now put themselves in the position where a lot more people want to look at them, and those people are coming from domains where they're more used to openness, flexibility and more open systems," said Gartner analyst Ken Dulaney. "That's the crisis they're going to have to face this coming year: Am I going to continue being closed and controlled or am I going to open myself up?"Wired iscollecting Apple defect storiesincluding MobileMe e-mail outage, web-app issues and inadvertent credit-card charges; problems staying on the 3-G network with iPhone 3G; the buggy iPhone 2.0 release; OS X Leopard bugs; Mac Pro sleep issues and poor MacBook Air battery life.No doubt this encourages reader involvement, though it's quicker just to readMacfixit..... However, it's a fact of life that more users will find more bugs: that's one of the points of open source.Wired reckons that one of the problems is that Apple doesn't make itself publicly accountable enough, even if you are Wired. It complains:And yet, Apple hasn't changed any of its ways. The corporation continues to operate behind closed doors. When Apple makes mistakes, such as the MobileMe e-mail debacle, the company puts up a vague status message -- while 20,000 users are left without e-mail access for a week. To make matters worse, Apple downplays the problem as affecting a meager "1%" of users.And Apple ignores the media, too. Ordinarily, Steve Jobs only speaks to a small group of journalists. The company wants to keep a lid on upcoming products, which is understandable, but even when journalists inquire about other matters, Apple can be famously unresponsive. Apple didn't return Pogue's [New York Times] phone calls regarding the MobileMe matter, nor did the company return Wired.com's.Of course, there's always a price for success. Companies can get away with a lot more when they are scrappy underdogs than when they look like arrogant overdogs....
When he wakes up this morning, Gary McKinnon will be 72 hours from learning whether he is on the fast track to a 60-year prison sentence, thanks to his obsession with aliens.McKinnon, 42, from Enfield in north London, is accused by American prosecutors of illegally accessing top-secret computer systems in what they claimed in one legal document was 'the biggest military computer hack of all time'.The self-taught IT expert insists he was simply looking for information the US government had on UFOs and is adamant that he never damaged any of its computer systems. This argument, however, cuts little ice with the Americans, who are trying to extradite him. Five years after being told by British police that he would probably get a six-month community service order for his exploits, McKinnon finds himself still wanted by the US authorities. A 2006 High Court ruling granted the extradition request, and on Wednesday the House of Lords will decide on McKinnon's appeal against that ruling.That it should come to this is little short of outrageous, say his supporters. Soon after he was arrested in 2002, US prosecutors appeared to offer McKinnon a deal: if he agreed to extradition and admitted his guilt, he would get a sentence of three to four years, most of which could be served in the UK. When McKinnon rejected the offer - made in confidential meetings at the US embassy - his lawyers were told 'all bets were off'. They claim the US prosecutors upped the stakes, suggesting he would be 'treated like a terrorist' if he did not agree to face trial and plead guilty in the US.McKinnon claims that at one stage there were suggestions that he would face a military tribunal, possibly at Guant&aacute;namo Bay. 'They said they wanted to see me fry,' he said.McKinnon's lawyers claim that attempts to force him to accept a plea bargain constituted 'an unlawful abuse of the court process'.A Lords ruling in favour of McKinnon, who has become a cause c&eacute;l&egrave;bre for UFO enthusiasts, computer users and civil liberties groups, would force US prosecutors to restart their extradition process in the magistrates' courts, a major setback that could have ramifications for other Britons resisting removal to the US. A ruling against him would mean an appeal to the European Court of Human Rights and leave him in legal limbo, banned from travelling abroad, forced to report to police every Friday, and barred from accessing the internet.In a further twist, it has emerged that a crucial file containing details of the early meetings with the US prosecutors, at which the offers were apparently made, has gone missing from the office of McKinnon's solicitor. A laptop holding details of the same meetings was stolen from the car of one of his barristers.The revelations have prompted febrile speculation among McKinnon's supporters, who fear that events have taken a sinister turn. McKinnon believes his phone has been bugged and claims to have been followed. As a result of his exploits, no IT company will now offer McKinnon a job. 'I think it's bloody ridiculous,' he said. 'They should employ me to bust paedophile rings or credit card frauds rather than stick me in jail for the rest of my life.'These days he earns a living driving a fork-lift truck. It seems a mundane job for a man who between 1999 and 2002 broke into the most secure computer systems in the world from his north London flat. Using a computer language called Perl and a cheap PC, McKinnon linked a number of computer systems to search for US databases that were not protected by a password. 'I could scan 65,000 machines in less than nine minutes,' McKinnon said.McKinnon unearthed unprotected computer systems operated by the US army, the navy, the Pentagon and Nasa. On every system he hacked, he left messages. 'It was frightening because they had little or no security,' he said. 'I was always leaving messages on the desktop saying, "your security is really crap".'One message has come back to haunt him. 'I said US foreign policy was akin to government-sponsored terrorism and I believed 9/11 was an inside job. It was a political diatribe,' he admitted.In the end, the ease with which he could hack the systems became his undoing. 'I got sloppy. I went to places directly rather than jump through systems. Nasa tracked back my IP address.'McKinnon's interest in aliens was started by an internet-based group of UFO enthusiasts called The Disclosure Project. The group had collected more than 200 testimonies - some from people who have served in the US military - that 'confirm' that extra-terrestrials exist. Not only that but, according to McKinnon, some of the testimonies offered proof that 'certain parts of Western intelligence had acquired and reverse-engineered their technology, mainly weaponry and free energy'.Intrigued, McKinnon used the testimonies to help him search top-secret US databases for information about free energy. 'I felt if it existed it should be publicly available,' he said. He says he came across many other hackers in the supposedly secure systems, many with Chinese and Russian internet addresses. Since his exploits were exposed, consecutive government reports have confirmed that the US military's computer systems remain poorly protected.McKinnon was caught before he could find any confidential information on 'free energy', but he saw enough to believe the US authorities are suppressing what they know about aliens. He says he came across a document written by a Nasa official who claimed the agency has to airbrush UFOs out of satellite photos because 'there are so many of them'.With only a 56k modem, he found that downloading the huge volume of documents was too time-consuming. But McKinnon claims that he managed to capture almost two-thirds of an image of what he believes was either a UFO or a top-secret US craft operating in space.The picture was confiscated, along with all the other material McKinnon downloaded. The material included an Excel spreadsheet entitled 'non-terrestrial officers' and a list of names. 'It was a really weird phrase,' McKinnon said. 'Maybe it was the secret development of a space force. Space is the next frontier and it's already being weaponised.'His hacking career came to an abrupt end one morning in March 2002. The National High Tech Crime Unit searched his flat and arrested McKinnon and his then girlfriend. 'They said "you'll probably get six months' community service",' McKinnon claimed.In the end the Crown Prosecution Service decided not to prosecute, but two years later, after crime unit officials visited Washington, apparently taking McKinnon's hard drive, the US government began extradition proceedings. 'Now I'm facing 60 years in prison,' McKinnon said. 'I believe my case is being treated so seriously because they're scared of what I've seen. I'm living in a surreal, nutter's film.'The greatest hackersJonathan JamesAt 16 he was the first juvenile to be jailed (for six months) for hacking in 2000. He targeted high-profile organisations including Nasa, stealing more than $1.7m worth of software.Adrian LamoBroke into organisations such as the New York Times and Microsoft between 2002-2003 using internet connections at coffee shops and libraries. He had to pay $65,000, serve six months of home confinement and two years' probation.Kevin MitnickThe Department of Justice called him 'the most wanted computer criminal in United States history' for his hacking activities between 1982 and 1992. He served five years, eight months in solitary confinement.Kevin PoulsenKnown as Dark Dante, he hacked into LA radio's KIIS-FM phone lines, earning himself a Porsche. Called 'Hannibal Lecter of computer crime' for his hacking activities between 1985 and 1991, he served five years in prison.Source:itsecurity.com
During the Seventies my two sisters and I had regular summer holidays in Dundee, our dad's birthplace. He'd pack the Ford Cortina estate, plus roof rack, with military precision. The back seat would be folded down neatly, ready for the three girls. We'd travel from Essex to Dundee by night, Mum and Dad taking turns at the wheel, breaking the journey up. The excitement mounted as we bathed and got into our itchy nylon nightdresses, ready for the long journey ahead. The three sleeping bags were laid side-by-side in the back of the car and we crawled into them, zipped up like little flowery peas in a pod. Unthinkable now. The moment we got on to the motorway was the most exciting part - the hypnotic orange lights overhead filled the back of the cavernous boot. The car was being flooded with light orange, and then dark again, light then dark. We drifted off to sleep in an orange glow, Mum and Dad playing Billy Connolly tapes in the front, drinking from flasks of coffee and giggling at the jokes we didn't understand.&#183;Do you have a memorable journey? Send it to us onjourneys@observer.co.uk
Mazda 6From &pound;15,630Miles per gallon:50.4Seats:5Good for:left fieldersBad for:left brainersHere are two facts you may not know about Mazda, both surprising in their own way. One: in the US, on any given weekend, more Mazda cars and Mazda-engined cars compete in track racing events than any other manufacturer's. Are your eyes bulging with disbelief? Let me spell it out - or in marketing speak, unpack it. In the country that's made a national pastime out of raising the world's temperature by igniting fossil fuels, and in a sport that is the redneck equivalent to shooting empty beer bottles off the head of your toothless second cousin, one marque stands supreme. And it is not a Corvette or a Mustang or a Jeep. It is a Mazda.Before you push your bulging eyes back in, here's fact two: at the end of the precision-engineered, robot-controlled production line in the Hiroshima factory where Mazda builds its capable cars, there is a pause in the automatons' working week while the shiny new motors are dusted with feathers. Ostrich feathers. The dusting isn't part of some ritualised Japanese blessing ceremony, but a savvy move by a company at the top of its game. Mazda has discovered this most traditional way of removing dust is actually the best. By dusting for static with hand-held feathers they also avoid the need for a power-gobbling drying process, which means emissions from the plant have dropped. Soon the factory hopes to start using water-based paints, too, which will also reduce toxic compounds. Before you worry that the paint job on your Mazda has been achieved by leaving a flock of ostriches trying to cover their modesty, you'll be relieved to hear the feathers are a byproduct from a free-range ostrich farm. With developments as lateral as this it's no wonder that Mazda has just been named best carmaker of the year at the annual Which? awards.With its all-new 6, Mazda is keen to play on the awe-factor. It's a family saloon with a difference - and it needs to be. Competing with the likes of the Accord, Mondeo and Laguna, a true contender has to be sharply presented, offer plenty of bang for your buck and, above all, be reliable. At this level, any shortcomings are quickly exposed. The 6 certainly looks the part. Wide-set and with a great curving grille, it is a mass of swooping lines and aerodynamic scoops. There's even a specially designed underfloor cover to make sure the air flows smoothly beneath it. The car is bigger, faster, lighter and more efficient than the 6 that went before. (What would Gordon Brown give to be able to say the same about his Labour party?) If you can be lured out of the driving seat, the view from the back is worth taking in, and the estate version proves that clever tailoring can indeed disguise an unsightly bulge.Inside you can commit karakuri - what Mazda calls its 'unique folding seat system'. In Japanese, the word means 'a mechanical device to tease, trick or take a person by surprise.' And certainly collapsing the seats with a single button does make you feel like Derren Brown.This year, sales have increased 20 per cent and more than 7,500 Mazdas arrive in Europe every week from Japan. Those feather dusters have been busy.martin.love@observer.co.uk
It is a sad reflection on our society that all it takes to distract Wall Street's attention from economic Armageddon is the barest whisper of a new gadget from Apple. We don't even really know if Steve Jobs, he of the black polo neck and the nice phones, actually has a new product up his skin-tight pima cotton sleeve or not. We just think he might.Last Monday during a fairly dull conference call with Apple chief financial officer Peter Oppenheimer, Wall Street analysts were hemming and hawing and looking most concerned because the venerable iPod maker's profit margins were down by quite a bit.Oppenheimer noticed that the lower margins line wasn't going down too well and tried to explain it away by revealing what he called 'a key product transition', which was responsible for sucking the air out of margins at least in the short term. What he meant was that Apple spends a great deal of money developing and marketing new products like the iPod and the iPhone and it must sell a few hundred thousand of them before its margins return to their normally stellar position.So now everyone is expecting a new Apple product at some point between the end of August and the middle of October, either for the back-to-school crowd or the early Christmas shopper. And it had better be good, or those Wall Street kittens, so easily distracted last week, might turn into a hissing gang of feral alley cats.Much of the speculation in the blogosphere has centred around a small touchscreen computer. Something like an iPhone but bigger with much more functionality.But in all honesty you have to ask why. If the device were made any bigger it would cease to be handy and pocket-sized. If it didn't include a phone, it would be just another device to lug about in your bag. A pretty big device too.And then there is Apple's history with the so-called 'tablet' device. The Newton, as it was called, was one of Apple's very few flops. Yes, it looked a bit like a scanner from Star Trek, but it didn't really do anything useful.More sober market commentators suggest that there is no new product in the pipeline, just some strategic offerings like a dramatic lowering of prices for iMac computers. While Apple could lower prices a bit, having sold 2.5 million units in the second quarter of the year to steal third place in the US computer sales charts, such a move is not exactly earth shattering. And why would you  give competitors six weeks' advance notice?What nobody has bothered speculating about - yet - is something in the TV and movie arena. It has been a while since Apple dropped the 'Computer' from its name to become just Apple, the consumer electronics manufacturer. Since then the company has rolled out the Apple TV set-top box and movies and TV downloads on iTunes, not to mention strategic alliances with major producers.What if Apple was to roll its Apple TV gadget and its iMac computer into an affordable flat-screen product that was easy to use but which had all the functionality of a web-connected computer entertainment system?'That would truly be a new and exciting product line, and it makes a certain amount of sense,' says Tom Smith, Apple analyst at Standard &amp; Poor's in New York.And to address Oppenheimer's margin problem, the initial costs of developing Apple TV, large flat screens and the iMac have been covered. Simply combining the devices into a new product line would be much more economical than coming up with something from scratch.Smith - who admits to behaving like a distracted kitten while in the presence of Jobs or Oppenheimer - is virtually bursting with anticipation. In the coming weeks there will doubtless be dozens of artists' impressions of gadgets ranging from pencil sharpeners to personal massage devices with the Apple logo on them as 'those in the know' attempt to second-guess Jobs's next money-spinner.But rest assured, whatever it is, it's going to be good, and it's going to be shiny. And it's probably going to look a lot like a telly.
The Steve Jobs health thing won't go away. In the corner saying "it's private, it doesn't matter" we have Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Jupiter Research. And on the other side, we have Chuq von Rospach, a former longtime employee at Apple (he left last year), sayingit does matter- "t is also VERY true that Steve is and continues to be a key driving point at Apple. Ultimately, he's the deciding factor in success/fail of products and features in many situations" - and that Apple needs to be open about its succession plan.And then there's Joe Nocera, who took a call from Jobs himself quite recently. But we'll come to that. Nocera's piece isdetailed and well worth reading, and argues that it does matter to shareholders who Apple's chief executive is - perhaps more than any other public companyon the planet. That gives a duty to tell shareholders about matters that might affect the value of their stockholding. Jobs's health, arguably, fits that description.But Apple hasn't been forthcoming with the truth: it turns out that he was actually diagnosed with cancer in October 2003,monthsbefore it was made publicly known, and didn't have an operation because he hoped to beat it with a diet. (I've got a guess which one, but I'd need to run it pastBen Goldacre.) It didn't work. He had the operation in summer 2004, after which it was made publicly known.Investors aren't happy about it. And Apple needs to change its ways, Nocera writes:The final reason, to be blunt about it, is that Apple simply can't be trusted to tell truth about its chief executive. Under Mr. Jobs, Apple has created a culture of secrecy that has served it well in many ways — the speculation over which products Apple will unveil at the annual MacWorld conference has been one of the company's best marketing tools. But that same culture poisons its corporate governance. Apple tells analysts far less about its operations than most companies do. It turns low-level decisions into state secrets. Directors are often left out of the loop. And it dissembles with impunity.And then we move to the money quote.On Thursday afternoon, several hours after I'd gotten my final "Steve's health is a private matter" — and much to my amazement — Mr. Jobs called me. "This is Steve Jobs," he began. "You think I'm an arrogant [expletive] who thinks he's above the law, and I think you're a slime bucket who gets most of his facts wrong." After that rather arresting opening, he went on to say that he would give me some details about his recent health problems, but only if I would agree to keep them off the record. I tried to argue him out of it, but he said he wouldn't talk if I insisted on an on-the-record conversation. So I agreed.Because the conversation was off the record, I cannot disclose what Mr. Jobs told me. Suffice it to say that I didn't hear anything that contradicted the reporting that John Markoff and I did this week.So read the article and consider it sort-of fact-checked by Steve Jobs.I'm interested by the "slime bucket who gets most of his facts wrong" thing. Two points there: when reporters get facts wrong, it's generally because people who know and have been asked haven't been forthcoming with them - so who's really at fault?; and I'd heard, from someone who once worked at Apple, that "Steve thinks of the press as insects". Are slime buckets higher or lower than insects?After he hung up the phone, it occurred to me that I had just been handed, by Mr. Jobs himself, the very information he was refusing to share with the shareholders who have entrusted him with their money.You would think he'd want them to know before me. But apparently not.Look, Steve, my number's available if you need to clarify anything here...Update:Dan Lyons - he of the now-deceased Fake Steve Jobs blog, who hung up that in part because he was so worried by Jobs's appearance at the iPhone 3G launch -points outthat this secretive behaviour wouldn't be tolerated from any other company: imagine, for example, that it was Steve Ballmer who appeared looking thin and who you were then told he'd had "a common bug". There's some dissonant thinking here..
Getting one of Microsoft's top managers to talk is achievement, but getting them all together in one room can mean only one thing: it's Microsoft's annualFinancial Analysts Meeting(FAM). This is attended in the flesh by people from Merrill Lynch, JP Morgan, Credit Suisse and so on, or virtually via streaming on Microsoft Investor Relations Web. And, of course, anyone can read the transcripts and download the slides afterwards.Since Steve Ballmer's talk alone runs to more than 15,000 words, this is not a trivial undertaking. Also, the vast majority of Microsoft's $60 billion revenue comes from business software, which (apart from Windows and Office) may be of little or no interest to consumers, even if they have heard of it. An alternative is to read Mary-Jo Foley's reports atAll About Microsoftfor some of the highlights.Naturally there was some talk of how Microsoft can change some people's perception of Vista -- which has now sold 180 million copies -- to match thereality. Bill Veghte from the Windows group showed a video where people who didn't like Vista were invited to try a new operating system called Mojave. As Foley notes:The participants, a number of whom admitted they had no direct hands-on experience with Vista, said they were jazzed about Mojave and would definitely use it once it was released.It was, of course, Vista.Some of Vista's problems have been created by PC manufacturers shippingmediocre, crapware-infested installations, which they have every right to do, but Microsoft is trying to do something about it. Veghte said:The final piece of it is what we do with our PC partners, whether that be HP or Dell or Sony or the many others that are a key part of the Windows ecosystem. We worked subsequent to general availability, we worked with each one of these vendors to do what we called the Windows Vista Velocity Program. And think of this as running a set of those systems and the entire software load that they have on them through a very extensive set of tests to measure everything from reliability to security to compatibility, boot time, et cetera. We ran over 280 systems through that process and you're starting to see the results of that in the market today.In response to a question from the floor, Steve Ballmer rambled around the same topic, saying:You can take the same laptop, oftentimes, and pre-configure it one way and you get almost instantaneous boot, and fantastic battery life. If you pre-configure it with software in another way you get long boots, and much less battery life. That kind of education, discussion, dialogue we find our OEMs appreciate. It doesn't mean they always follow our advice, and we certainly respect their right, under our consent decree and everything else, to preload any software they want to on those machines. But, we're trying to at least help people understand the opportunity to not only offer fantastic choice, low prices, different margins, but also some of our OEMs, I know, are going to step up and do a lot more to complete the end-to-end experience, software, hardware, et cetera. And that will be a great thing.Microsoft has already put a lot of effort into tackling the software compatibility and driver issues. And as we've already noted, it hasa new agencyworking on some new advertising.Update: Microsoft plans to put some "Mojave Experiment" video onlinehere.
WALL-ENintendo DS, Wii, PC, PS2, PS3 (reviewed), PSP, Xbox 360THQ, &pound;29.99-&pound;39.99Benevolent mega-corp Buy n Large is meant to be cleaning up the toxic wasteland we've made of future Earth and WALL-E is their lonely last working cleaner robot. Or at least that's the plot of the film. The game is a little more circumspect, with cut scenes that explain very little, serving more to break up the game's platform-hopping and collecting tasks, undertaken as trundling WALL-E, flying and laser-toting EVE, or as a team of both robots together. While some of the platform levels aren't unpleasant, a combination of twitchy controls and checkpoints spaced irrationally far apart make certain sections exercises in frustration. The rest is OK, if largely uninspiring stuff, typified by the game's secrets, which can be unlocked through additional exploration and usually take the form of mildly disappointing conceptual art. Games based on films: just don't expect too much entertainment.Metal Gear Solid Online: Gene Expansion PackPS3Konami, &pound;7.99Metal Gear Solid Online is a totally different game from its single player counterpart. Offline you're rewarded for sneaking and pacifism - getting through the game without detection and with no killings on your conscience is the only way to acquire the game's more rarified achievements. Online it's kill, kill, kill, and beautifully modulated and engaging lethality it is, featuring a range of thoughtfully designed maps that emphasise diverse aspects of the game's feature set. Out to download now from the PlayStation network is the Gene Expansion Pack that supplies a new "survival" mode, two new playable characters (that's Meryl and Johnny), several new maps and a "reward shop" that lets you buy equipment in exchange for points. Sadly for early adopters, the release has been a technical fiasco, which, at the time of going to press, is yet to be resolved.Radio HelicopterNintendo Wii505 Games, &pound;19.99Named to sound unutterably dull (why not simply keep its slightly more alluring American title, MiniCopter: Adventure Flight?), Radio Helicopter is a game that screams "made inexpensively in Japan", from its analogue menu selection noises to rough and ready graphics to generic soundtrack. Your character pilots a small remote-controlled helicopter in a series of all-encompassing tasks including flying through rings, clearing up rubbish, making a tropical smoothie and inserting plastic organs into a fake cadaver, to give you an idea of some its more clinically insane mission objectives. With a wonderfully simple control scheme in which you tilt the Wii-remote in the direction you want to go, flying around its levels and completing objectives is immediate throwaway fun, with money earned spent on upgrades and new helicopters. Playing like a mixture of Mr Mosquito and Chibi-Robo!, the game's solid controls and surreal qualities make up for the odd bug; my copy kept lapsing into German, "Fliege durch die Ringe!"
Everything I Think Aboutthingithink.tumblr.comMicro blogging at it's finest from amazing architecture to a hilarious Thai commercial for lightbulbs.Made Up Memoriesmadeupmemories.tumblr.comA mixtape containing "songs you weren't listening to in 1987", hip-hop videos and photos of young women holding Manowar album covers.Lickable Recordsksen.tumblr.comFabulous stills from the 1966 Batman movie plus evidence of why we should forgive Zooey Deschanel for The Happening. No chance.A Smursh Of Petepeteashton.tumblr.comYouTube mirth including Mark Kermode's Mamma Mia! review and Adam Buxton's NWA Day.Everything Changesconorh.tumblr.comInteresting meals, Bill Hicks, shameless self-promotion and the weird music he used to listen to and occasionally still does.This Isn't Happinessnevver.tumblr.comVintage photos, car ads, book covers, posters, graphics and family snaps.
I'm so happy to be back. My thanks to all those who were kind enough to be in touch to say that you missed me. You were well served by my distinguished stand-ins, however, and thanks go to them, too, for keeping Dork Talk alive. But let's get straight to business: an extra-long column for openers, for this month sees another Apple launch.Whatever one's view of Apple as a manufacturer of digital equipment, as an author of operating systems and designer of software, as a multinational corporation, as a lifestyle statement or as a quasi-religious cult, it remains a matter of ineluctable fact that the introduction of the iPhone just over a year ago changed the smartphone market for ever. An incredible three-quarters of all mobile web browsing is now done on the iPhone, despite its market share being far smaller than that of either Windows Mobile, BlackBerry/Java or Nokia/Symbian devices. iPhone users report an unprecedented level of customer satisfaction (between 82% and 90%, compared with the second placed BlackBerry at 50%). This is not a surprise to anyone who has lived with an iPhone for even a short while, and even less of a surprise to anyone who has also had to work with a WinMob phone.Let's be clear about the iPhone's shortcomings, however: this unparalleled success has been achieved by an expensive device with only a 2 megapixel camera, EDGE rather than 3G data speeds, no video, no GPS, no contact search, no file or text manipulation, no Enterprise or MS Exchange capabilities, no third-party applications and a locked-in network operator deal. I said at its launch that this revolutionary implement would thrill early adopters but be prohibitively expensive and under-functional for many others: "Wait for iPhone Three," I wrote, "that'll be the one that gets it right."A year of living with iPhone One has proved to me that the camera lens and its operation is good enough to produce better photos than phones with twice the resolution, that EDGE speeds allow swift email and full browsing in most areas of the country, that the Google Maps implementation and music, video and photo playback are stunningly impressive, and that other deficiencies are made up for by the sob-worthy beauty, elegance and lovability of another Jonathan Ive-designed Apple masterpiece.Nonetheless, we want it all, and huge numbers of people have been fretfully awaiting iPhone Two: queuing began in New York a week and half before launch date; O2, the sole UK network provider, had its site go down hours after announcing pre-booking; the BBC's technology site is so afraid of looking as though it "favours" Apple in some way that it has been failing to file legitimate stories for fear of the anti-Apple community, because, believe it or not, there are people out there who think the launch of yet another Nokia or WinMob Apple-a-like should be given equal prominence.Well, finally, here it is, the iPhone 3G, hardly different at all in look or feel from iPhone One. The back, available in black or white, is now plastic, which offers better reception for the 10 radios hidden inside - four GSM (your standard quad band), three UMTS/HSDPA (your 3G) plus one each for A-GPS, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. A standard earphone socket replaces the unpopular recessed jack and the switches are now metal.This new phone's greatness is not revealed in its outer lineaments, however, gorgeous as they are, software is crucial. Simultaneous with its release comes Version 2.0 of the operating system. Exchange and enterprise capability (for BlackBerry-style "push email") has arrived, meaning that the iPhone is now a serious corporate contender: employee pester-power will see to it that it becomes the tool of choice for medium to large businesses that aren't so pompous and deluded as to think dullness and bad design are a sign of probity and business acumen.What else is new? The camera is the same. Contacts are finally searchable, a fuller range of email attachments can now be read and saved, a server-side push system for mail, events and contacts called Mobile Me has been introduced (subscription required) and, most importantly of all, Version 2.0 users (including those with original iPhones) will find an "Installer" icon on their home screen. This will be familiar to rebellious criminals like me who "jailbroke" their original iPhones months ago. It means that the power of the iPhone as a beautiful, smooth and function-rich handheld computer can now be realised. Anyone may now write for the iPhone. Existing applications (games, utilities, ebooks, dictionaries and so forth) already written for other platforms can be ported into Apple's elegant and intuitive developer's kit with astonishing ease. All applications have to be downloaded through the iTunes store. Believe me, in a very few weeks you will see things being done on an iPhone that will make you gasp and stretch your eyes. The built-in accelerometer alone will inspire people to amazing new heights of ingenuity. The accelerometer is a sensor that knows which way up the iPhone is: you can expect pedometer software, software that plays you music chosen according to how fast you are walking and where you are walking (thanks to the GPS), spirit levels, pinball games with tilt, games in which the iPhone itself is the steering wheel, apps that show you on a map where friends are - we cannot even guess what is coming.I should digress here to point out that the latest HTC Touch Diamond (HTC is a wonderful manufacturer permanently hamstrung by its devices all being Windows Mobile) has an accelerometer, too, and comes with a ball-manipulation game that provides tactile feedback - you can actually feel the weight and bounce of the ball as you manoeuvre it. For the rest, it is yet another iPhone wannabe: it is too small, its multi-touch interface is too slow on the uptake and the whole experience is rather fiddly. It does have the best browser on a pocket PC I've yet seen, however, and for those determined not to go Apple, it is (thanks to the market-changing influence of the iPhone) a superior model of its kind (RRP &pound;499,htc.comfor stockists).Unlike the iPhone 3G, the Diamond also has a front-facing camera (for video calls and video IM). What else is the iPhone 3G missing? No text manipulation (not even basic cut and paste), no Flash plug-ins for the browser, no video recording, no voice memos. Third parties will probably address these software issues, but it would have been better if Apple had solved them itself.Perhaps the most significant development of all, however, is price. Apple, in harness with its network providers across the globe, has slashed the cost of both the 8GB and 16GB models. O2 in this country will offer the phone for less than &pound;100, or free, according to tariff and other criteria (from Apple, O2 and Carphone Warehouse stores. The iPhone 3G 8G is free on the &pound;45 and &pound;75 tariffs, &pound;99 on the &pound;30 and &pound;35 tariffs; the iPhone 3G 16GB is free on the &pound;75 tariff, &pound;159 on the &pound;30 and &pound;35 tariff, &pound;59 on the &pound;45 tariff. Go too2.co.uk/iphone/paymonthlyfor full details). You are tied to their network, but the all-you-can-eat data package works out as excellent value, given the amount of browsing and downloading you are likely to do. 3G is of little interest to me, as it happens - by the time coverage arrives in rural Norfolk, the rest of the world will be 6G.In conclusion: some will be disappointed by the phone itself, because they will have expected greater and more fundamental physical changes and improvements. In fact, I still maintain that the third iPhone will be the perfect device. But that is to take nothing away from what July 11 heralded: not evolution but revolution. Now that the Applications store is up and running, you will soon find it a very common sight indeed to see people crowded around each other's iPhones showing off the latest impossible, breathtaking and groundbreaking application. "Ah, but mine can do this!" will be heard in every cafe and bar. Satirical sketches will be written and performed on Channel 4 mocking the trend. Once again, Apple has changed the rules, and nothing will ever be quite the same again.&#183;stephenfry.com/blogAcronyms of the weekUMTS: Universal Mobile Telecommunications System; HSDPA: High Speed Package Data AccessBoth protocols of the near-broadband mobile speeds generally called 3G, or third generation.GSM: Global System for Mobile communicationsThe standard cellphone technology used for voice calls.GPRS: General Packet Radio ServiceAs above, but allowing data communications, such as email and web browsing.EDGE: Enhanced Data rate for GSM EvolutionI know, hopeless acronym. As GPRS, but now fast enough to be called 2.75G... nearly as good as 3G, in other words.A-GPS, GPS: (Assisted) Global Positioning SatelliteFor satellite navigation. 'Assisted' refers to new versions that allow for better urban signals by utilising cell sites and other clever tricks.IM: Instant Messaging(Skype, iChat, Jabber, AIM etc).
Emocion is a word Seat likes to bandy about quite a lot. It's Spanish, for emotion. But I'm struggling to feel any emotions at all about this funny, futuristic car that's turned up for me to try out. Mild bemusement - does that count as an emocion? I drive it to the airport to pick up my girlfriend, who's been backpacking round South America for three months."What have you done with my car?" she shouts."Hello, my love, did you have a nice time away? For a quarter of a year?""Where the hell is my car?""Look, I've got us a nice new car.""I hate it, I hate it, I hate it, I hate you. I want my old car back. Where is it?"I'm thinking this isn't a good sign, either for the resumption of our relationship or for the Seat Altea Freetrack 4, especially given that her old car was - is, I haven't done anything with it - an old Polo. The drive home is in silence.Which is good, because it means I don't need to pretend to be interested in the Inca Trail or listen to stories about encounters with llamas, and can instead concentrate on the serious business of motoring journalism. And I can try out the stereo, which is excellent.The Altea Freetrack 4 is based on an Altea XL (Seats come in T-shirt sizes, helpfully), but looks as if it's been put on steroids or genetically modified. It's higher and chunkier, with four-wheel drive. "Crossover" is the technical term for one of these 4x4s that doesn't really need to be a 4x4 and will never have anything but hard tarmac beneath its 17-inch alloy wheels.On the road it feels solid and reassuring, and the two-litre TDI engine has plenty of oomph. Oomph is a technical term, and is measured in Nm (it shouldn't be confused with 0mph, which is when you're not going anywhere at all). TDI? Turbo diesel injection, keep up. There's also ABS, TCS, EBA, DSR and ESP, none of which you need to worry about, except ESP, which stands for extrasensory perception and means the car knows exactly what you're thinking. And it sees dead people.We get home, my girlfriend says, "Hmmph", when she sees her horrid old Polo is still there, then disappears into the house. I'm in no particular hurry to join her, and now seems as good a time as any to look around the rest of this car. There are lots of handy places to put sunglasses, and cups. The back is great. The back seats fold forward in various combinations to fit whatever you want behind - surfboards, coffins, pretty much anything. There's a TV that comes down from the ceiling! Oh, it doesn't work - well, I need a DVD player to plug into it. And tables fold down from the backs of the front seats - it's like being on a plane back here. Chicken or beef? Hey, I could live in this car. The way things are going, I may have to.OK, so it's ludicrous, as all of these crossovers are. Why spend more money and pollute the air more than you would with an estate car, just to give yourself a look? But I did find myself becoming weirdly fond of it. Even weirder, so did my girlfriend. By the end of the week I was in the house and she was living in the car. Maybe that's what Seat means by emocion.Seat Altea Freetrack 4 2.0 TDIPrice:£21,405Top speed127mphAcceleration0-62 in 8.7 secondsAverage consumption41.5mpgCO² emissions179g/kmEco rating5/10At the wheelRafael NadalOn route forLa PlayaIn a wordEmocional
&middot;Being a dogcan be so depressing - especially if you have to wearcrappy little jumpers&middot;Kanye Westdoes not employ a ghost blogger andyou're a hater if you think he does&middot;How Radioheadmade their weirdnew wobbly head geometric 3D video&middot;Where to sellunwanted books for money and save the world:greenmetropolis.com&middot;The most expensiveplaces to havesafe sex&middot;Don't messwith the subeditors over atthe Economist&middot;Kew Gardenshas gone all2.0&middot;A high standardof wood panelling was essential to asuccessful 1970s wedding ceremony
Before you visit this site, first take a trip to the extraordinary official site of Tom Cruise (tomcruise.com), bask in his awesomeness for a while, feel touched and blessed as his career highlights flicker in sepia-tinted techno wonder and then, if you must, throw up somewhere discreetly. Tugg Speedman, seen on his home page heroically holding a baby, bears an uncanny resemblance to the Top Gun legend. There's a filmography, a link to his favourite charity (the Panda Relocation Foundation) and a personal message about the coolness of his website: "I like to think of it like a really rad bridge that lets my fans walk over all the mean stuff the internet says about me." Hopefully the film - Tropic Thunder - this fake site is a spinoff from will be as funny.
We've grown used to finding endless morsels of obscure, half-forgotten telly memories on YouTube, but the clips lurking on the shelves of this nostalgia video site are in a class of their own. The advert section features commercials everyone remembers (for R Whites, Shake N' Vac and the Electricity Board), but plenty we'd long forgotten - finger of Fudge anyone? A dozen or so other areas include school programmes, news, public information films and gameshows with clips of opening titles and theme tunes from every day British TV tat such as Shoestring, Widows, 3-2-1 and The Bounder.
The World Service no longer broadcasts to western Europe on shortwave, saying its broadcasts via satellite, cable and the internet are enough. Is there a portable option for those on holiday and without web access or satellite TV?WorldSpace, the biggest satellite radio provider, doesn't have a dedicated European service at the moment - but the World Service does broadcast for free over its West Africa beam. That means you should still be able to pick it up using a portable receiver such as the Tongshi DAMB-R (around &pound;120, fromWorldSpace.com).The other option is Digital Radio Mondiale (DRM), a new alternative to DAB that's already being used by the BBC around Europe. A portable receiver like the Morphy Richards DRM costs around &pound;200, and you should be able to use it at home and abroad.You helped someone who asked how to watch British TV in Europe, but could you advise how to watch European channels from the UK, either on my TV or on my laptop?You could get a specialist satellite deal from a company such asTotalsat.co.uk, which would probably involve a dish and a subscription. Or use an internet rebroadcasting service:Zattoo.comstreams European stations to the UK; the choice is limited, but includes some French and German channels.Is there a gadget to reduce the sound of television studio audience noise?The cacophonous squawks of audience laughter - especially the inevitable sound of a single fool whose squeaky titter overrides everything else - is one that irritates many of us. But it's a problem probably best tackled through people power, rather than technology: take to your keyboards and let the producers know.If it's got to the point where you're in danger of throwing a vase at the TV, I've got only one remedy: turn down the volume to a manageable level and watch with the subtitles on.&#183;Email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
At the OSCON open source conference in Portland, Oregon, Microsoft announced that it had become a Platinum sponsor ($100,000 a year) of the Apache Software Foundation, like Google and Yahoo. The move is probably connected with Apache's on-going efforts to support Microsoft Office's new standard Open XML file formats via the Apache POI project.It's not a big enough deal for a press release, apparently, but one of Microsoft's open source people, Sam Ramji,blogged the announcement, saying: "I am grateful to Andy Oliver, the creator and maintainer of Apache POI, for contacting me back in June with a hope that Microsoft could supply the necessary rights for POI." Andy Oliver, in turn,posted as follows:I have been working with Sam Ramji and Robert Duffner from Microsoft, and I have been very pleased to resolve the issues that I had with the work they are funding for the Apache POI project. Not only has Microsoft addressed the concerns that I had with regards to patents and OOXML, but they have gone a step further and added the binary formats to the list. By publishing their clarifications to the Open Specification Promise (OSP), Microsoft has acted both in good faith and purpose. For me personally, this is a big step forward. At one time, I donated my Open Source project to Apache, partially out of fear of Microsoft. Now, Microsoft is becoming a key contributor to this project.Microsoft is obviously keen to get open source software running on Windows, but as Ramji points out: "It is not a move away from IIS as Microsoft's strategic web server technology. We have invested significantly in refactoring and adding new, state-of-the-art features to IIS, including support for PHP. We will continue to invest in IIS for the long term and are currently under way with development of IIS 8."Companies developing or shipping products that support Office Open XML file formats also include IBM, Sun, Apple, Novell, Corel, DataViz, Nuance, Adobe, ThinkFree and Zoho.
MondayLast of E3Molyneux and casual gamingQuick prophesy questionsTuesdayMotionPlus confirmationsDead Rising hits WiiIan Bogost on the nature of videogamesGerard Jones on defining violenceWednesdayWikigame demoHow long can Microsoft keep charging for Xbox Live?Paramount teen flick gamesBest of ChatterboxThursdayDevelop events and call for questionsHawkins goes after Omni Media GamerFridayFriday questions: Mercury Prize for gamesEconomic petri dishes: social science and virtual worldsPS3 high-tech gamble
The interwebs are full today of tales about how Hasbro, which owns the online rights to the game of Scrabble (®™©) issuing the brothers behind Scrabulous, the runaway success version of, um, Scrabble played by millions on Facebook.Which has led some to ask: hey, Hasbro, why not lighten up? Why not get, you know, all webby with this, and, you know,buyScrabulous? That way you get the good PR and you get the fabulously successful applications that everyone triple-word-score plays on Facebook.I can think of a simple reason why not: because it wouldn't make fiduciary sense. And because Scrabulous hasn't got a legal leg to stand on, which means that if it comes to a court battle things will get both expensive and unsuccessful for Rajat and Jayant Agarwalla.OK, the fiduciary bit first. Company directors have one, and only one responsibility (apart from obeying the laws of the land, though some find even that a bit tricky sometimes):increase shareholder value. Hasbro owns the (potentially valuable) online rights to Scrabble (®™©etc etc). True, it wasn't quickly out of the blocks to do it, and its own Facebook version has hadlousy reviews. No matter. It has the licence in its hand. The Scrabulous brothers don't.Now, if Hasbro were to pay good money for Scrabulous, which would involve processes likedue diligence(to make sure that there weren't debts and other infringements of IP lurking in the depths - you never know, which is why due diligence is required in any takeover) and negotiations over price, Hasbro shareholders could legitimately ask: why? Why payourmoney for a company that's infringingourIP?Therefore it's much simpler and cheaper for Hasbro, which I believemay have one or two lawyers to hand, simply to sue the Agarwallas until things are so unpleasant for them that they have to fold their tent and hand over Scrabulous to Hasbro, which can then relaunch it on Facebook.In which case, for the cost of some of its lawyers' time writing aggressive lawsuit papers, Hasbro gets the company it wants without having to do due diligence (it can pick and choose what it wants from Scrabulous) and for very much less money, while defending its IP. Win-win-win for Hasbro.And I'll bet half of you are saying "that's shameful" - but that's business. And that another half are saying "Well if they do, then I'll never play Scrabulous again!" To which I say: oh, really?
Dave Winer is not a man given to understatement. As the progenitor ofone of the first blogs, Scripting News, and (at least) the co-creator of web feeds (aka RSS), Winer has made lots of money from being, as he puts it, "an outlier on the leading edge".The other day,his internet service provider Comcast cut him off unexpectedly. An outage? No. When he got on the phone to someone in customer support, he found that it was more to do with how much bandwidth he was using: "their issue isn't with the security on my net, it has to do with how much bandwidth I use. Can't work with them when their method of getting me on the phone is to shut off my service, without any warning. I told them to close the account. I'm no longer a Comcast customer. I'm sure they'll send me another bill, adding insult to injury."But because Winer is, in techland, something of a personality, the customer service person tried to tell Winer that he liked him. "My response was you're a company rep, you don't get to like or not like me." That's the spirit: the anti-celebrity. We don't get enough of that sort of attitude, ofI don't care if you know who I am, and in some ways I'd prefer you didn't so I can see how you really operate."Why did this strike a chord? Because of all the fuss that's grown up so quickly aroundthe UK's biggest record labels, represented by the BPI, over their memorandum of understanding with the six biggest UK ISPs (BT, Virgin Media, Orange, Tiscali, Carphone Warehouse and BSkyB) as part of an effort to curtail filesharing.Illegalfilesharing, I should emphasise, as the chief executive of the BPI Geoff Taylor was careful to do. (I'm pretty sure it's because he was trying to divide it from the legal variety – such as getting Linux distributions – and not because he was trying to get us forever to associate "filesharing" with "illegal".)Many memes have floated off and taken on a life of their own over the announcement. Will ISPs be cutting people off? Will they be threatening to cut people off? On the face of it, no and no. But you can see that the BPI would like it to be yes and yes, and France is trying to impose precisely that on its ISPs. It's a sort of capture of the internet industry by the content industry, mediated by government.I'm not saying, by the way, that I favour illegal filesharing. The justifications for it run from daft to delusionary, ranging from "nobody really loses out" (so would it be OK if we distribute your work to the world for free without asking you?) to "most music is rubbish, hence not worth paying for" (so why is it you're downloading the stuff you like, and not the rubbish then?) to "music is really robust, it's been around for centuries, it's just the business model that needs to change" (so are you volunteering to be the munificent sugar daddy for the new troubadours?).But what's clear is that the ISPs have been pushed into this corner by the fact that for years they took a hands-off approach to their own terms and conditions (which include not doing illegal things). Not that it's been easy. The problem used to be getting enough customers. Then there was the major firefight of the early 2000s with the rise of spam and viruses, which threatened to overwhelm their servers and customer service systems. ISPs are still getting to grips with both those problems; it's understandable therefore that they didn't put much effort into fixing a problem with their customers using the internet too much in a way that at least didn't threaten the network's stability; and the music companies seemed to have things figured out, first chasing the original Napster into the ground and then suing not only the companies (such as KaZaA) but also their customers.Things are changing, though. Viruses and spam aren't so prominent on the radar any more. Filesharing (of all sorts) is. It uses up lots of bandwidth when a lot of people do it. And Winer probably came to Comcast's attention not for illegal filesharing – he's always been a fierce defender of his own intellectual property, and so is hardly going to rip off others' work – but for the fact that he's built a product calledFlickrFan, which downloads hefty volumes of images from Flickr. Somewhere in Comcast a little bell pinged as the high-definition images of Barack Obama headed for Winer's hard drive. And so he got cut off.OK, so what's the link? It's that as ISPs in the UK come under pressure from the recording industry, they're going to be sending out letters – "hundreds of thousands" of letters, the BPI suggested on Thursday. That's going to mean, at the very least, thousands more calls to customer support lines ("Why have I got this letter? Does it mean you're going to cut me off?"). When those volumes go up, service gets worse as you wait in a queue wondering why your broadband has gone down, while the 50 people in front of you all have perfectly functional internet connections but are wondering if a lawyer is going to show up at their door. Other people may choose to switch ISPs after getting a letter, but that's a huge hassle in itself (as I suspect Winer is about to discover).And some ISPs may decide that the future threat of legislation (which hasn't entirely gone away) just makes it easier to cut off people who are downloading very large volumes of data, and let them make the case why later.And so the law of unintended consequences wins again. The price that we pay for illegal downloading in the past will be worse customer service in the foreseeable future. You'd better get used to Greensleeves. Something tells me we're going to be hearing a lot of it.
