Fox Interactive has appointed its first European mobile chief in a bid to increase MySpace's audience by offering its social networking services to mobile users.Jean-Paul Sanchez has been poached from his role as business development manager at Vodafone to become vice-president of mobile for Fox Interactive in Europe.He will lead mobile strategy on MySpace as well as video games site IGN and other Fox Interactive digital brands.Sanchez will report to European managing director David Fischer, who said that mobile was a top priority for MySpace.MySpace has around 120 million profiles created by 80 million users worldwide. The site plans to extend that audience even further by offering access to the key elements of the site "anytime, anyplace, anywhere".In the US, MySpace signed a deal in April to offer Cingular customers SMS alerts for profile updates.In May the site partnered with 3G phone company Helio on a preloaded version of MySpace that allows users to browse the site and post photos and comments directly from their phone.MySpace is expected to announce a further deal with Cingular, the largest US mobile company, in the next few weeks.The UK version of the site is widely expected to introduce a "lite" mobile version soon and has said it is in exploratory talks with UK mobile operators.O2 has confirmed that it has had "very early, exploratory" discussions, while Orange would not comment.None of the best-known web-based social networking sites, such as MySpace, YouTube and Bebo, have officially partnered with UK mobile operators so far.Meanwhile, News Corp recently said that it could launch a Chinese version of MySpace by April if it found the right partner, while MySpace co-founder Chris DeWolfe told The Times that it planned to launch localised versions in 11 countries.Murdoch was in China last weekend meeting government officials, while DeWolfe and fellow MySpace co-founder Tom Anderson are reported to be in talks with blogging sites Bokee.com and BlogCN.com over a joint venture.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The PlayStation 3 may be roughly twice the price of rivals, but users are getting supercomputer power for a PC price, according toiSuppli's teardown analysis. It's "a great bargain". The company says:The combined materials and manufacturing cost of the PlayStation 3 is $805.85 for the model equipped with a 20Gbyte Hard Disk Drive (HDD), and $840.35 for the 60Gbyte HDD version, according to iSuppli's Teardown Analysis service's preliminary estimate of expenses in the fourth quarter. This total doesn't include additional costs for elements including the controller, cables and packaging.At these costs, Sony is taking a considerable loss on each PlayStation 3 sold. Materials and manufacturing costs for the 20Gbyte model exceed the suggested retail price of $499 by a total of $306.85, iSuppli's Teardown Analysis service estimates. For the 60Gbyte version, costs exceed the $599 price by $241.35.Sony's losses per unit are dramatically higher than Microsoft's on the Xbox 360. iSuppli says:In contrast, the HDD-equipped Xbox 360 has a manufacturing and materials total of $323.30, based on an updated estimate using costs in the fourth quarter of 2006. This total is $75.70 less than the $399 suggested retail price of the Xbox 360.Comment: I suspect Sony's financial loss is much larger than iSuppli suggests. iSuppli is costing the Cell processor at $89, which looks utterly ludicrous to me. Presumably it's not counting the couple of billion dollars Sony has sunk into Cell development and manufacturing, and it may be overestimating the manufacturing yields, which could be low enough to double the real price per chip. But even without those factors, the $89 price looks out of line with the cost of equivalent silicon from Intel or AMD. I'd therefore add at least $51 to the Cell price, bringing the loss on a 20GB PS3 to $357.85.Also, iSuppli's estimate of $125 for a Blu-ray drive looks low, though clearly this component will become dramatically cheaperifthe supply of blue lasers improves and supply ramps up.Of course, the factory price also doesn't include distribution, advertising and marketing costs, and the retailer margin. When a dealer sells a PS3 for $500 or $600, Sony only gets a proportion of that.Considering the development and marketing costs, I reckon it's costing Sony at least $1,000 to sell a PS3 for $500. So if it sells 6 million units, that's an attractive loss of $3 billion.Some of that money is already sunk costs, of course, with development spread out over the past six years. Still, the expectation that Sony will lose $1 billion on the PS3 in the first year may turn out to be low. And unless users buy lots of high priced games, Sony may take a long time to get that money back.
What a strange business plan. According togamesindustry.biz, Sony will lose over $300 on each 20GB PS3 sold, "And a further US$ 240 on high-end 60GB unit". From the article:"The size of Sony's loss per unit is remarkable, even for the videogame console business," said [research group]iSuppli. ... He continued: "There is nothing cheap about the PlayStation 3 design. This is not an adapted PC design. Even beyond the major chips in the PlayStation 3, the other components seem to also be expensive and somewhat exotic."That's still a big loss on the first weekend of launch.However, this isn't a new business model in the console business. Last year, iSuppli calculated that Microsoft loses approximately $130 for each Xbox360 sold.The cost of the difference is buffered by software sales, which may explain why the PlayStation softwarefloods the market.Thanks Dave, Paul and Bambino_Tostare!
AsTechCrunchwas first to announce (and as Bobbie has notedbelow), Jason Calacanis is leaving AOL in the wake of his mentor and CEO,Jon Miller.Ted Leonsis, a 13-year AOL veteran and vice chairman, has also writtena paean to Miller's time.One of life's little ironies is that these executive departures are ideal material for the newNick Denton Valleywag 2blog. So far he's postedJonathan Miller ousted from AOL,AOL parent playing "sadistic little games",AOL exec: Miller victim of Time-Warner power play,The gloves are off,Jason Calacanis deletes AOL critic, andJason Calacanis, AOL executive, 2005-2006-- probably more by the time you get there!With abitchfestlike this, Denton is unlikely to have problems making Gawker's 12-posts-per-day target.
Just a week ago I was blogging furiously from the Web 2.0 Summit overseen byTim O'ReillyandJohn Battelle- and it was packed with heavy hitters from the big internet companies.But it seems that the biggest impact of the conference so far may be that the people who took the stage are all out of jobs.First the news thatJonathan Millerwason his wayout as AOL boss arrived.ThenRoss Levinsohn, the Fox Interactive guy,was off too.And this morning I wake up to discover that blogging entrepreneurJason Calacanis, who Miller brought in to AOL by buying Weblogs Inc, is alsoleaving.Ouch. Who's next?
Network operator 3 yesterday promised to revolutionise the UK mobile phone industry by offering free long-distance phone calls and unlimited access to broadband-style internet services for a flat monthly fee.Subscribers will be able to access services like eBay auctions, MSN instant messaging and Google search in the same way as they would at home for a flat monthly fee, the company said.The move was hailed as an industry landmark. Analysts said it would put pressure on bigger rivals to follow suit.Dubbed X-Series, the new package will be available to 3 customers from the beginning of next month. The operator refused to confirm pricing but it is likely to cost between &pound;10 and &pound;15 a month on top of their usual price plan.The so-called mobile internet is seen as the next big battle ground for web giants such as Google and eBay. According to Yahoo chief Terry Semel, while a billion people around the world have PCs, around three billion have mobile phones.Up to now mobile operators have found it hard to persuade people to use internet-style services on their mobile phones. They have tended to direct them to so-called "walled gardens" of carefully screened services and charged high fees based on the time spent online and volume of information downloaded."Forcing people into a walled garden of services in a mobile broadband world is wrong. And it's not acceptable to make choice so expensive that it's no choice at all," said Frank Sixt, 3's finance director."As a mobile operator we had to take a long hard look at our business. We're tearing down the walls around the proverbial walled garden.""It offers people access to the internet in a very transparent, no-strings-attached manner," said David Thevenon, head of European wireless partnerships at Google.Meg Whitman, eBay chief executive, said it was a "key milestone" in the development of the internet.A tie-up with innovative broadband phone service Skype is likely to prove particularly attractive to those with relatives or friends abroad. Using Skype they will be able to call any one of the service's 136 million registered users around the world for nothing.Through an agreement with technology firm Sling Media, X-Series subscribers who buy an additional Slingbox gadget will be able to watch pictures from their home television set on their mobile phone anywhere in the world.Much of the blame for the slow take-up of the internet over mobile phones has been placed on the high prices operators paid for 3G network rights, which the government sold six years ago for &pound;22.5bn. Firms have struggled to recoup their investment. Vodafone this week revealed it had lost&pound;3.3bn in the first half of 2006.
Another day, another MP3 player launch, though this one is a little different. Nintendo's MP3 player/accessory - due out on Dec 8th for around £20 - will work with the Nintendo DS/Lite (plus Game Boy Advance SP and GBA Micro) and allow users to insert an SD card and listen to music. Sound quality is likely to be pretty average but if you regularly use your DS player on the go it does at least mean you could theoretically leave your iPod at home. Of course by releasing an MP3 add-on - plus a recently launched browser - Nintendo have neutered most of the remaining tech advantages that the PSP has over the DS.
A few years ago, I regularly and wittingly humiliated myself on television. Every week, sometimes twice, two friends and I covered ourselves in fake blood, dressed up in silly outfits and pranced around on Channel 4 burbling enthusiastically about computer games. It is to my present self's dismay that that behaviour has resulted in a self-imposed retreat from pubs at 10pm, as I've learned that after then the tongues of early 21st-century terrestrial TV viewers loosen with alcohol and people feel compelled to talk to me. Not that I mind particularly; I've come to terms with my celebrity, but personal debauchery has been put aside for fear that if I'm recognised, I'll be held accountable for my actions.The reason I bring up this mosey down memory lane is that I'm about to take part in a return to regular broadcasting, albeit via a far more diffuse and less well-produced channel. The Gamesblog team is starting its moblogging and I get to join in. I'd better get my hair cut.Using the Nokia N-series' Lifeblog feature, we'll video gaming events, interviews with interactive luminaries, hands-ons with new hardware and various how-tos, and we'll post the results on to the Gamesblog (blogs.guardian.co.uk/games). At one point we discussed making an episodic film filled with witty repartee, but we'll see if that comes to pass. While we can't promise Oscar-winning performances, we can promise that there will be no fake blood.You can video your responses, but don't send them to The Guardian's site - instead you can post them on YouTube, which is where our guardiangamesblog channel is located. (Note: we're not the same as the "gamesblog" user, which is an Italian site: we are atwww.youtube.com/profile?user=guardiangamesblog. In fact, it's imperative that you do. This is the new form of citizen journalism; now, instead of shouting at us via the blog, you must create well-reasoned arguments and film yourself saying them.Which comes to the real reason we're doing this: we want to see what our readership looks like. If we can't be anonymous any more, why should you be? It's the modern media environment, so claim your right as consumers to give back as good as you get. Personally, I'm looking forward to putting faces with pseudonyms, particularly those who give us a hard time.The video blogs will go up at least once a month, and the first instalment, arguably technologically better thanJeremy Paxman's first attemptand hopefully less cringeworthy than David Cameron's (www.webcameron.org.uk) is on today's Gamesblog. Please be kind.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Gears Of WarXbox 360, &pound;44.99, cert 18Epic Games/Microsoft, 5/5So here is Microsoft's biggest gun this Christmas - the game that will, it hopes, persuade vast quantities of people to buy an Xbox 360. Although it seems designed for the sort of people (invariably men) who already own Xbox 360s, it is an undeniable tour de force. You play Marcus Fenix, sprung from jail to fight the Locust, heavily armed aliens who have emerged from the core of the game's Earth-like planet. But this time around, typical first-person shooter tactics do not apply. You must hop from cover to cover, work with your (usually four-strong) squad to outflank the enemy and generally adopt a tactical approach. And it mixes first-person and third-person views cleverly, so it's in no way a conventional FPS. Gears of War has incredible graphics, although its grim, dark comic-book look and copious blood-spatter effects aim it squarely at macho adult males, while its compelling co-operative multiplay and two-player co-op play modes add longevity. A true glimpse of the Xbox 360's capabilities.SBCall of Duty 3Xbox 360, &pound;49.99, cert 15+Treyarch/Activision, 4/5Call of Duty 3 is visceral, intense and sporadically terrifying, but it's also very similar to Call of Duty 2. Veterans of that game will feel right at home as they battle the Nazis again. This time the action is centred on a specific part of the Normandy campaign, allowing greater narrative focus. The story is unimportant, though - Call of Duty is all about the action. And when you are crouched behind a wall with bullets fizzing past and grenades exploding nearby, make sure you loosen your grip on the joypad and shuffle back in your seat. Unfortunately, enemy soldiers display a total lack of self-preservation and often ruin the atmosphere generated by the fantastic graphics and sound. The multi-player compensates, with new options allowing you to play as a medic or scout. The best WW2 shooter ever, but we need new ideas next time.GHStar Wars Empire At War: Forces Of CorruptionPC, &pound;19.99, cert 12+LucasArts, 3/5Empire at War was a bold attempt to replicate the success of space operas such as X3. It was also flawed - particularly through a realtime galactic map where you never had enough time to plan your moves correctly. Thankfully, this add-on addresses some of those problems while introducing a new storyline that straddles the events of Episode V. The scale is huge as your fledgling crimelord pits his wits against Alliance, Empire and mercenary forces. And although the planet-side battles remain cumbersome and shallow, the tactical complexity of conquering more than 50 planets should have RPG fans salivating. However, despite the presence of Luke Skywalker and friends, there's no doubt these franchises are losing their link to the essential Star Wars ethos.MA
Intel has quadsIntel has released its Kentsfield quad-core processors, which were expected next year, ahead of rival AMD. Systems using the new $999 (&pound;527) Core 2 Extreme QX6700 desktop version should be out before Christmas.www.intel.comDeathly screen saverMicrosoft has released an amusing free screensaver that includes such delights as Windows's Blue Screen of Death and, from NT4, chkdsk of disk drives with errors. "Its accuracy will fool even advanced NT developers," says Microsoft.www.microsoft.comCray targets petaflopsCray has launched an XT4 supercomputer designed to reach one petaflop (1,000 trillion floating point operations per second) using up to 30,000 dual or quad-core processors. Cray says it has a "significant backlog of large orders".www.cray.com/products/xt4Player X aims for the bullPlayer X has licensed Granada TV's Bullseye show and launched a mobile phone version developed by Morpheme.www.playerx.com/games/tv-and-movies/bullseyeWatershed for ChristmasThe Watershed in Bristol has unveiled its seventh annual online advent calendar, Electric December.www.electricdecember.org/Christmas stock inPC manufacturers are now rolling out Christmas specials. Mesh has a 15.4inch widescreen Core Duo notebook PC, the Asus A6R Pro, with a free USB TV tuner and free upgrade to Windows Vista Business for &pound;599 including VAT and next day delivery.www.meshcomputers.comSaddle up your virtual ponyEidos Interactive plans next year to launch Pony Friends, a virtual pet game for the Nintendo DS.
Is spam really out of control? Or might there be a magic bullet - or bullets - to get rid of it? Last week we explainedherehow increasingly sophisticated malware is being used to take over millions of PCs to create botnets, which turn infected PCs into self-contained email (SMTP) servers which can pump out a huge volume of spam; the amount has shot up in the past few months.Readers and web observers reacted with a range of responses from queries and suggestions about the best way to stop spam, to complaints about the damage already being done to innocent net users by antispam measures.To begin: Jonathan Duckworth from Stroud and Mark Tweedie in Coventry suggested that best way to be sure one is not part of a botnet is to use either Apple's OS X or the Linux operating system.While that might be true, it doesn't solve the problem of receiving huge amounts of spam; there are still millions of potentially exploitable Windows PCs worldwide.The proposals from readers on how to stop spam at its source boil down to six (largely independent) basic ideas, which I discussed with Lindsay Marshall, senior lecturer at the school of computing science at the University of Newcastle upon Tyne, who is an expert on spam and computer risks.Use the X.400 message protocolThe first two suggestions came from John Wallace, of Birmingham: "Spam is technically sortable, and relatively easily (no need for everyone to ditch Windows just yet), but sorting it would put the anti-spam businesses out of business as well as the spammers and the realtime black-hole list maintainers would lose their ego trips, so where's the motivation for that to happen?"My two quick suggestions. Option 1: X.400 - mail technology from the 1980s, ignored today because it pre-dates the internerd era, but designed from the ground up to have security built in (the military still use it where it matters)."X.400 needs a bigger email client and mail server than POP/SMTP stuff, because X.400 is a mail system that inherently knows how to handle authentication, certification and lots of other good stuff that the POP/SMTP world doesn't. X.400 can of course interoperate with POP/SMTP but you lose many of the advantages if POP/SMTP is still in the picture."Lindsay Marshall's reponse: hollow laughter. "X.400 is dead. The problem is that even if it can do that, you aren't going to change the world tomorrow. If we were all using it, that might be realistic. But you can't make everybody use it."Use 'authenticated SMTP' emailWallace continues: "Option 2, the less emotionally uncomfortable one: widespread use of authenticated SMTP, which would for most users (and ISPs?) be a trivial change to their existing setup."This requires anyone connecting to an email server to send mail to give a username and password, which will be validated by the server before mail can be sent.Marshalll says: "It would work, except how would any arbitrary person get in touch with you? Their mail server has to talk to your mail server. How do you know if their server uses authentication? You don't. It could work if every server has an ID, but that requires things like key distribution, which is very complex."It's a bit like challenge-response systems, where if you try to contact someone the first time you get a message back saying 'click this link to confirm you're real', and you often think 'Oh, I can't be bothered'. It's interesting nobody mentioned this as a solution. Perhaps they don't get any email?"ISPs block other port 25 mailThis is the suggestion being made inside the industry and adopted by Australia's largest ISP, Telstra, and by some ISPs in Britain. It blocks any outgoing emails that do not go via the ISP's email server - including, in theory, those emanating from bot-infected PCs acting as independent mail servers.However, two readers were suffering from the results of this "solution". First, Philip Parker of Carnoustie:"I can't use my university's mail servers to send emails. My ISP, Orange, forces all outgoing mail on port 25 through its own mail server: you have to use your Orange login details to send emails through it. Due to this, I'm not able to connect to my university's SMTP [outgoing mail] server while at home."I can bypass it, being a somewhat tech-savvy student, by utilising a Virtual Private Network (VPN) - but that's complicating the issue.I need to send emails through my university's SMTP server because it rejects emails sent with my university address to others at the university that did not originate from its own server."Then, Andrew Williams in Frankfurt:"Blocking port 25 traffic is a bad idea. Email services such as Hotmail or Yahoo have a webmail interface, but also allow customers to read and send their mail using a mail program rather than the html interface."If some ISP started blocking port 25 access and I were no longer able to send my mails via my email program, I would first put in a strongly worded protest and then start looking for a new ISP if they did not stop immediately."Marshall says: "Actually, blocking port 25 inside ISPs is quite a good idea. It wouldn't solve everything, because there's a lot of spam that comes out of bad networks - I've never seen an email that wasn't spam come out of one Italian ISP, for instance. But you can use a VPN or web access to send emails otherwise."Other mail services, including Secure POP - used by Google's Gmail service - and the synchronising IMAP service, use other ports.Limit emails per dayWilliams continues: "Several mail providers impose an upper limit as to how many mails you can send in a certain period of time. Think 100 mails a day or something like that. That should help a bit."Marshall asks: "But what number? Should it be 10? I send more than 10 daily. 100? It's going to be different for every person. Getting the right number would be impossible. And whatever number you chose, the botnets could just throttle back the number of emails that they send so that they won't be detected. Botnets are the real issue here, and they won't be beaten if there are only a few messages being allowed."Write a worm that kills botnetsMichael Russell suggested: "Perhaps it's time for the IT security industry to bite the bullet and secretly design and deliver their own worm or Trojan that will hunt out &amp; clean up spambots?"Yes, lots of hand-wringing over that idea - but this could be one of those occasions when the forced administration of medicine is just what the millions of patients really need."Marhsall notes: "A company called Blue Security did try something like this: it would leave complaints on the spammers' websites. Blue Security got wiped off the net by an unknown attacker."The trouble is that it's impractical because it would involve the security industry talking to each other. And you'd also have the problem of the anti-anti-anti-anti-missile: you'd get worms that stopped the worm ..."Adopt IPv6The next-generation version of internet addressing would have an inbuilt system that could record where emails had come from, and from which machine. That should provide a measure of authentication.Marshall's reaction "I don't know a lot about IPv6. I don't particularly care which technology underlies the net - it could be carrier pigeons as long as the data gets through. You can adopt IPv6 piecemeal, so that's something good to say. But it's the same problem as authenticated SMTP: you have to get everybody to take it up. Almost all problems are amenable to solution where everybody does the same thing. But the reality is that there are still people running Windows 95; the internet is not a closed, tidy community. It's diverse."So IPv6 is a good idea, apart from anything else, because we will run out of internet addresses otherwise. But we can't do that tomorrow, and I worry that we might be overrun by spam by then."Many companies have adopted various measures to combat spam. But that does lead to collateral damage.Thus: "Increasingly organisations are installing powerful spam filters which are blocking my legitimate emails because the adult dictionary objects to my surname."In the past few months this has caused me a lot of problems and, as a result, I changed my email address to remove my surname from it but the spam filters still object to my surname in the body of the email."Usually when one of my emails is blocked it falls into a black hole and I am not aware that it has been blocked until I phone the recipient to ask if he/she has received my message."The writer, from Brighton: John Loveridge. Sometimes spam filtering is too sensitive for anybody's good.So what's the answer? "I don't have any solution," says Marshall. "Except for getting people not to reply to it. If nobody replied to spam, it wouldn't be worth their while."The trouble is, some people are stupid and they do reply. I wish they didn't!"&#183; What's littering your inboxSpam has mutated in the past couple of years; in fact, by watching what is being offered, you can monitor what spammers believe - or have discovered - are the principal concerns of net users.Stocks"Pump and dump" scams, hyped by spam containing just a small image of the text (and so very hard to filter), 
remain effective and widespread. A study in August found that people who respond by buying hyped stocks lose, on average, 8% of their investment in just two days. Most hyped stock is also bound by US regulations forbidding its resale for a year - by which time its price will surely have cratered.Pharmaceuticalsand lately diet pills remain hugely popular. But are you seriously going to trust your credit card details to a site that spams you? And are you really sure the contents of those pills are what they're claimed to be? A study last year found that two-thirds of "diet pills" sold online were counterfeit.PornographySelf-explanatory, and seasonal. But again, are you really going to trust your credit card or personal details to a site which has carefully selected you by spamming 100m people?PhishingDisguising the true sender of an email is simple: you just lie to the mail server about the "From:" address. Hiding a URL is easy too: you encode it in a hyperlink. Thus millions of emails pretending to be from eBay, PayPal and scores of banks worldwide are sent every day. And people still click on them and believe they are ensuring their security.Fake researchHad an email saying you could win something if you just fill in a few questions? Of course you have. 
Just looking at the email validates your address.The solution? Delete them all. Unread.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Need for speedWe bought a house in a rural area of Derbyshire and although we were a long distance from the nearest exchange, we could successfully get a 512kbps broadband connection. However, after a BT "repair" that eventually fixed our line following a storm, we found ourselves without a broadband service and, after getting BT to identify the problem, blacklisted from an ADSL service. Cable is not an option here, 3G too expensive and dial-up is too slow, but we found an ISP that provided a one-way satellite service (AVC broadband). After signing up (&#163;130 set-up fee plus &#163;30 a month subscription) we received a letter from AVC informing me that it will be ceasing its one-way satellite service from January 2007.So we are now having to once again search through a list of unknown suppliers of satellite based services which may/may not go bust at any time. Each one seems to use slightly different equipment and so requires yet another expensive purchase. There must be tens of thousands of people just like us having the same problems. Does anyone know of a reliable and reasonably priced provider of satellite based broadband (one-way and two-way)?Mike ThompsonJack Schofield replies:AVC users have the option to move to a Mediasat.ie service for home broadband (www.mediasat.ie/homebb.htm) but "that's up to them," says an AVC salesman. An alternative would be to go for a BT or BTapproved service (BT also sells its satellite service wholesale), but these are generally aimed at business users and not particularly cheap for home users. For example, Broadband Wherever.net starts at &#163;60 per month. However, skyDSL (www.telesskydsl.com) might be an option. Since the withdrawal of BT's ISDN Home Highway service last year, users who are beyond the range of ADSL don't have much choice. We're interested in hearing from readers who are using skyDSL or another satellite broadband connection.AVG, still freeI've been happy with AVG's free edition 7.1, but have been told that it will cease to be supported in January next year. Can you please suggest an alternative?Les DixonJS:I suggest you switch to the new AVG 7.5, which is also free. Go tofree.grisoft.com/or, more specifically,tinyurl.com/lzu8z.Getting XdriveFrom your recent item, Xdrive sounds just the ticket for backing up my data. But AOL seems to require a zip code (and not a postcode) in order to set up a screen name, and hence an account. Any idea how to get round this?Richard Rusbridger, James Gordon, Laurence Errington and othersJS:You can sign up for Xdrive if you have an AOL screen name, and you can get one of those by signing up for a service at www.aol.co.uk. Otherwise use one of your fake US identities. American university websites are a good source of generic phone numbers and zip codes that are likely to be used by large numbers of students.Overheating routersI used to turn off my old broadband router overnight as it ran very hot and I live in a timber-framed house! It used to reconnect instantly, but in the past few months took up to an hour, so I began leaving it on permanently until it gave up the ghost. My new wireless router doesn't even have an on/off switch. Should I turn it off?Richard ByattJS:Some cheap routers have small, badly designed cases and do tend to overheat, which can cause connection problems and means they tend not to last. After one died in my rug, I've taken to mounting them higher up, on legs or at least raised using Blu-Tack to improve air circulation. Certainly don't stand any router on something hot, and don't cover it with papers or whatever. Some do-it-yourselfers have been known to bore holes in the cases and install small fans. However, routers also tend to work better if left on all the time, so that's what I do and normally recommend. Just unplug it if going on holiday. An ADSL router should reconnect in a minute or two, at most. If there's a problem, the flashing lights should help you figure out what it is.Ghostly backupHaving spent a lot of time getting a new PC set up as I want it with Windows XP Home, I'd like to take a snapshot of the system to an external drive, so I can recover to that point if I ever need a new disk, or have to reformat the old one. Can Windows System Restore be persuaded to do that? I don't really want a full disk image like Ghost generates.Clive PerkinsJS:Sorry, System Restore does not do the job, and a Ghost-type disk image is what you need. Acronis True Image seems to be the software of choice at the moment, but there are half a dozen alternatives including Terabyte Unlimited's Image for Windows (www.bootitng.com/imagew.html), and Easeus (www.easeus.com/disk-copy), which is free.Backchat&#183;I suggested that Clare Nesbitt look at iSkoot for a Skype connection for her Treo. Dave Beck says: "I have and use this successfully in the UK on my Treo 650. It has the signifi cant advantage over the two VoIP implementations you mentioned, Articulation and MobiVoIP, in that it only uses the data path (GPRS) to setup the destination of the call and uses normal 'local minutes' to carry the voice, no matter where the destination. Clare should ignore that the UK in not listed in the supported countries: my calls route via an 0208 number, automatically set when you configure the application. She can also look at Mino and Jajah."&#183;Lewis Graham, Ken Baxter and others wrote in to say they were happy with their Shuttle PCs. Ken Baxter says: "It has made a major diff erence in the space available in my small study and doesn't need to sit on the floor sucking in dust."
Technology Guardian: You took over Microsoft Research Cambridge from Roger Needham, who set it up. Has it changed much?Andrew Herbert:We've nearly doubled in size in the same building, but the ethos and the style of the laboratory has hardly changed at all: I think Roger built a fantastic lab. He had some key values: trust your researchers to do great stuff, and don't get in their way. Roger always said that a manager is a resource, and that's precisely how I see my role. Researchers come to me when they want something and I make sure they get it. In fact, if I'm really doing my job properly, they get it slightly before they know they want it.TG: You were out of research before, so how did you get the job?AH:A quick career history is: PhD at Cambridge with Roger working on operating systems. I then went off and ran an Alvey project defining object standards, and that went very well.As the web came along I spun out a startup that was acquired by Citrix, and I was their director of advanced technology for about four years. I'd stayed in Cambridge throughout doing all these things, and then one day Roger rang me and said: "Do you want to come back into research?" It took me about a millisecond to decide "yes!". So I took over the assistant directorship at the lab.TG: How much freedom do you have in picking your research areas?AH:Essentially total freedom. When I joined we were into programming languages and tools, machine learning, and I took over systems and networks. Those are still the three strengths of the lab. When I joined, Roger and I decided we were not quite so strong in applications, so we decided to go out and find someone to start a fourth group, and we found a guy called Ken Wood. His interests are human-computer interaction and consumer devices and electronics, and that's how we got our fourth group.TG: And that's been a great group for attracting publicity, with people like Lyndsay Williams.AH:Yes, I'm wearing one of her SenseCams now! We're almost into produc tion with these: I think we've built over 250 for the research community.TG: We covered SenseCam in a piece about "life-caching", where you record your whole day automatically and play it back later (How to save your life, August 19, 2004). But the whole idea hasn't taken off the way I thought it would.AH:It's still trundling down the runway, I think is the tactful answer. We have two things going with the SenseCam. One is how you might tie it into things like blogging. The other side is the medical side, with Addenbrookes [Hospital]. That really has taken off. We've found that using SenseCam helped memory-loss patients recover their memories, which is nice. Now neurophysicists are getting involved because it's helping them to test and confirm some of their theories about how we remember and what the mechanisms might be. We've found that using those techniques, you can improve recall for people who don't have memory loss problems, so SenseCams can help all of us with our recall.I find that when I get home, skimming through the flickering SenseCam thing is just the perfect way ...TG: Or you can just give it to your wife and say ...AH:"That was my day!"TG: Yours in 90 seconds.AH:We're also finding teenagers are looking at it as a new media because it's not photographs and it's not a video, and in some ways its jerkiness reflects the pace of what's going on.TG: But SenseCam and other cute gadgets are still research. How do you convert research into products?AH:Part of the Microsoft Research organisation is a technology transfer team. We have one that works globally and is run from the Redmond lab. We jokingly call them the spy network. They go round the rest of the company, and their role is to understand what the product divisions are doing and what their technical challenges are.They talk to the architects and chief designers and product managers and form a view based on what they know, and where research might help or sometimes even challenge the product groups, if we think they are using a wrong technique. So the team knows what's going on in research and they know the product groups so they try and build relationships. Then technology transfer takes place in all sorts of ways. It works quite well. The other thing we do now is think about licensing technologies to Microsoft partners. The most recent example of that is a program called IP Ventures, where we contribute intellectual property and work with venture capitalists to create a company and take an idea to market. That's been quite exciting.TG: Have there been any notable successes in getting UK research into products?AH:Yes, there's the network mapper in Vista - that was done in Cambridge. There's an algorithm called BM25F, which is about improving web search ranking by incorporating user behaviour. Search is obviously a big part of Vista, of Office, of Windows Live, so there we essentially just transferred a pile of Greek letters three inches long. We're also proud of Xbox Live's online ranking system, which helps you find opponents ...TG: Gamertags!AH:Absolutely! That was all done by our machine learning group, in the Cambridge lab. It is probably the world's largest online machine learning application.TG: In what way is it machine learning?AH:Because what we're trying to observe, as people play each other, is what is a good predictor of skill. We're seeing who plays who, what the outcomes are, and what is a statistical model of skill across the number of games, and so on. We're trying to build models of human behaviour, essentially.TG: Can I apply that to the Premiership and make a fortune from William Hill?AH:I couldn't possibly comment! We've done some interesting analysis with that, and there's a lot of randomness. We're computing skill for itself, we're not computing the outcome of matches.What we can do with a football league is make comments about how well balanced any particular match is likely to be. It's just like saying Arsenal and Man United is likely to be an interesting game, but it's not going to tell you what the score will be. Unfortunately, you can't make your fortune that way ...TG: Microsoft is spending about $6.6bn a year on R&amp;D.AH:But research is a tiny fraction of that. You can do the numbers: there's about 700 or so of us in research and about 20,000 in development? Bill [Gates] says it's remarkably good value! To the company, we're a batch of things: we're clearly a source of new technology and we're a source of smart people. So if Microsoft wakes up a little late to something, as sometimes happens, it's usually research that rises to the challenge. When someone said, "Perhaps we ought to have our own search engine," it was Microsoft Research who set to and said: "Here's how you build one." We also see one of our roles as to give the company agility, by researching things that don't relate to current products, and so on - things like computational biology and simulating biology. As a research lab, we're allowed and encouraged to go off on those tangents, because you never know.&#183; Curriculum vitaeAge52EducationBSc in computational science at the University of Leeds (1975) and a PhD in computer science from Cambridge University (1978).Career1985Founded APM Ltd, a research/consulting company1996Founded Digitivity Inc1998Director of Advanced Technology, Citrix2001Joined Microsoft Research Cambridge as assistant director2003Succeeded founder Roger Needham as director of MSRC
Sounding off about DABIf my experience is anything to go by, I am not surprised (Britain refuses to listen to new digital radio format, November 9). The quality of DAB is woefully short of what I have been enjoying for years on analogue. I bought a Pure DAB radio a year ago, and suffer from 'splashy' sound and occasional descent into silence. I have two Freeview boxes, and radio reception via that means is also unreliable (as is TV on occasions, with sound failure and pixellation of the picture). Analogue TV and radio ain't broke. Why fix them?Robert CaldicottBanbury&#183;I've been complaining about the DAB/Eureka 147 standard for more than nine years, so it's heartening to see that World DAB is dumping MP2 and moving to AAC. There are many other issues, such as intellectual property and the creeping privatisation of the airwaves, but one step at a time, right?http://funferal.org/There's more to scienceAs a mathematical physicist, for the past 40 years I've had an informed view of the lack of understanding of science shown by politicians, economists and business leaders (Why is the government so eager to stifle innovation? November 9). Why they should pretend to be interested in science is amusing: they want to use science to justify policies that will, they hope, keep them in power. Even more striking is that they do not understand how science works. They use "science" to cover all branches of knowledge from physics and astronomy to climate forecasting, sociology, economics and, no doubt, astrology.They need at least to make some effort to comprehend the difference between the laws of nature and hand-waving arguments based on extrapolation of time series data.Anthony DunningFolkestoneIt's a repeatThe single-pixel camera has been around since the invention of TV (One pixel is plenty, November 9). A single light-detector having the incoming image scanned on to it, originally by mechanical means and later electronically. I imagine it would be possible to simulate a TV picture by applying a suitable drive signal to the mirror array in the article.Mike WhittakerStapleton&middot;SPATE (Stress pattern analysis by thermal emissions) uses infrared to find stress pattern distributions in components. It uses a scanning mirror and because infrared light is not very "bright" takes a long time to get a stress image. It used a mirror because pixel arrays were so rare and expensive when it was first developed in the 1980s, by the British firm Ometron.Robert PaynterOxfordStealth weaponIt seems to me that Microsoft is still doing what it can to destroy Linux, only this time it's the old "if you can't beat 'em, buy 'em" line of thinking. If these companies really want virtual, they should just use VMware. That is where the smart money is, imho.www.muddysmind.com/Mum's the WordNo need for macbore to have his lunch spoilt (Letters and blogs, November 9). When his mum wants to open Word documents without MS Office, he just points her to the free download ofWord Viewer, which allows her to view, copy and print Word docs without owning MS Word. She could get the Excel Viewer, the Access Viewer and the Powerpoint Viewer while she's there. Then she can claim she really knows her way round a computer.John DeanOxfordSpam IP: o.o.p.sCould you please correct the address where we can find our IP addresses. The reference (Why spam is out of control, November 9) is incorrect.Tony GrimleyNottinghamSorry, it was an editing error. The correct address isnoc.net.umd.edu/cgi-bin/netmgr/whoami
Labour-saving devices have created a generation of lardballs, and now brainwork-saving devices threaten to cripple us mentally too. Technology has moved from making things possible to making things easy, and that is as dangerous for our mental health as vegging out playing computer games and watching DVDs is for our physical health.Take word processing. In the beginning, such software made it possible to create professional-looking documents without employing a typist. It was empowering and a huge advance. But word-processing software nowadays doesn't just enable, it takes over the job. Spelling errors are automatically corrected, grammatical mistakes are highlighted and the software even passes judgment on literary style.Some packages even finish your words for you before you have finished typing them, something that is rightly seen as unforgivably rude in human conversation. The way software looks over our shoulders as we type, correcting and proofreading as we go, is making us lazy. Nobody reads what they have written any more. You can see the dire results in blogs all over the web. Texts are littered with "theres" that should be "theirs", and "nots" that should be "nows" - errors that spellcheckers still cannot spot. Sentences are padded with telescoping subclauses that have exactly the correct number of commas, but are completely incomprehensible.Satnavs are just as mentally corrosive. Navigating is an essential learning process by which we build up a mental map of our environment. Research has shown that relying on a satnav allows our lazy brains to sit back and relax. At the end of a satnav-guided journey, we have no idea how we got there. The result will be a generation that is lost without guidance from the box on the dashboard.How can adults regard themselves as independent without knowing how to get around?Software is killing music, too. It is too easy to create music by sampling digital sounds and assembling mixes that sound good, even great, in the ambience of an Ibiza mega-club. Outside that club, it's just blah. Only in the computer age could DJs such as Fat Boy Slim be regarded as musicians. All the skills are in the software - the number of people learning how to read music or play instruments is rapidly declining.Even the world of classical music is being deskilled. In West End theatres, orchestras are being savaged as the players in the back rows are replaced by the Sinfonia "virtual orchestra". The players at the front are retained only to give the audience the illusion that humans are in charge.Already we live in a world where we barely have to lift a finger. Lights turn on automatically, doors open as you approach, nowhere is more than a few yards from a car parking space.Now computers are doing the same thing for the mind. A mental obesity epidemic threatens.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Professor Russell Cowburn normally views small things through a powerful electron microscope. But as professor of nanotechnology at Imperial College London, he's come up with a big idea for winning the war against counterfeits. No matter how clever security technologies such as holograms, metal strips or special inks become, criminals soon bypass them."There is an arms race. People introduce new technologies and somewhere between six weeks and six months later, they've been cracked," says Cowburn.Laser surface authentication is now joining the battle and, if Cowburn's dream comes true, may be the ultimate weapon for the security marking industry.The idea relies on a problem in nano-technology: it's very hard to make exactly the same thing twice at the nano scale. He was originally using microchips and scanning their unique patterns with a laser when an experiment went wrong."One day the chip fell off the paper backing that it was being tested on and the laser just hit the paper instead. Whereas we would have expected to have got no signal, we actually got a signal that had all of the right characteristics for a security device. That was enormously surprising," says Cowburn.Rather than reaching for the glue, Cowburn investigated further and found that ordinary paper gave robust security signatures. The random pattern of the paper fibres scattered back the laser beam to detectors, giving far better results than the microchip.After tuning the laser system, he also discovered that the probability of two pieces of paper producing an identical reading was unimaginably remote.Credit cards, metals and coated paper boards were swiftly tried with the same startling results. Putting the now defunct microchips aside, Cowburn realised that all he needed was to scan an item's surface, convert the reflected laser speckle pattern into numbers, and store a security signature in a database.Portable laser scanners would then sort the fake from the genuine or help with track and trace. Cowburn has set up Ingenia Technology Ltd to exploit the newly patented device and is involved in a secret trial with an overseas organisation. The company also recently won an award as the world's most promising security technology startup business. "With our technology, everything carries its own fingerprint. We can very easily take the item and scan it," says Cowburn.Ross Anderson, professor of security engineering at the University of Cambridge's Computer Laboratory, recalls the pioneering Shakespeare hologram on cheque guarantee cards in 1988 which was later reproduced by forgers in China - he even bought one in a Singapore market. Laser surface authentication, he reckons, will stump even the most resourceful forger."The interesting thing is that you're actually looking at naturally occurring randomness. I don't know of any process that can be used to forge this," says Anderson.The problem for the forger is this. Magnify a piece of paper only 100 times and you'll see the crisscrossing fibres that make up its complex irregular surface. And that's just the beginning, as the scanner that is used to read the security signature can detect surface irregularities of less than a few hundred nanometres in size - a nanometre is one millionth of a millimetre.To create an identical security signature for a document, box or credit card, the forger would have to duplicate the surface including all the imperfections at the nano-scale. As these were created randomly during the original manufacturing process, the forger has no chance of success - security is built in from the day the item was made."The advantage of the technology is that you don't have to do anything special to your materials - in many applications that's a killer advantage," says Anderson. He thinks the technique is useful for luxury goods, safety-critical items like car parts, and on grey-market products.Anderson also mentions the nuclear industry where uranium container seals have to be tamper-proof and all waste carefully tracked.And, more controversially, he says that laser surface authentication might provide rapid checking of ordinary paper passports without the need for costly microchipped identity cards.Thanks to a failed experiment, Professor Cowburn's new weapon may win the anti-counterfeiting war.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It certainly looks that way, based on the reactions of non-gamers who have been trying it out. In the US, reviewers have been raving about it: "The Wii is a fun, engaging, wildly innovative game console that's dramatically different from the Xbox 360 and the PlayStation 3 - and dramatically more affordable," commented Jim Louderback, editor of PC Magazine. The combination of its surprising wireless controller and a troupe of games that fall outside the normal gaming fare (driving, shooting) and instead are more like those which a whole demographic is used to: physical movement.Of course, Nintendo, presently a distant third in the console race, is making the most of this, earmarking $200m (&pound;105m) for a marketing campaign that aims to wrest sales away from Americans who were thinking of getting an Xbox 360 (now that it's a year old, and bedded down) or a PS3 (which is shiny and new, but comparatively very pricey).In fact, the PS3 - with its cutting-edge processor and cutting-edge Blu-ray player, contributing to its bleeding-edge price in the US of $500 - might be the victim of Sony's unwillingness to compromise on components. Ananalysisat curmudgeongamer.com in May found that the PS3's $500 price is historically high for a console. At the time, the Wii's price wasn't announced, but the $250 cost puts it squarely in the range where it looks historically cheap.There are obvious objections: the PS3 and the Wii are going after different markets; the Wii is limited because Nintendo can't command the publishers that Sony can; Sony has the might of its corporate empire, including records and films, to make the PS3 and Blu-ray into a success despite everything that has held it back, including multiple delays and the completely separate $249m cost of recalling and replacing millions of faulty batteries used in many manufacturers' laptop computers worldwide.But the Wii is going after a new market - the family - in a way that the Xbox and PlayStation haven't. The gonintendo site (hardly, let's agree, unbiased) carried one post from a blogger who took a Wii to a family do and left with four orders to get one that weekend. Sony might not like it, but swishing controllers might be the next big thing in games.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Oof, that's a tough one. How about - by the time it reaches Britain (rumoured to be in 2008), we'll know whether it's worth buying, or was just the Microsoft Office paperclip assistant of MP3 players? Officially launched (only) in the US on Tuesday, Zune (like the rock band Queen, it has no "the") made an inauspicious splash. Touted for its ability to let you share songs wirelessly with other Zuneists, and Microsoft's acceptance that vertical integration (of online store, jukebox software and player, &agrave; la iPod) is the key in the music player market, flaws nevertheless began popping up like teenage acne.The products site Engadget pronounced baldly that "Installing the Zune ... sucked" (read the reviewhere): it crashed repeatedly, demanded their phone number and their Windows Live ID in endless registration screens, insisted the Zune wasn't there, insisted it was a "guest", and the jukebox had enough bugs to make it look like Microsoft is a newcomer to this software malarkey.Other reviewers noted that it's a bit larger and heavier than the equivalent iPod, and that what looks like a scroll wheel (which remains Apple's - actually, marketing veep Phil Schiller's - shining contribution to user interface) isn't; it's a four-way button with a circular exterior. The price is no better than Apple's, and the screen, while bigger, has no more pixels.Earlier came Microsoft's acquiescience to the record company Universal, to pay it $1 (52p) for every player sold. Why? Because otherwise Universal wouldn't make its music available to the Zune online store. The carrot: Universal might offer exclusive content to Zune buyers. But what if you don't want Universal's stuff? What if you hate its artists? What if you hate it and its Tony Soprano-style tactics? Among online teens - surely the Zune's intended demographic - this one "reeked".Then there's the wireless sharing.Steve Jobsdismissed this: "It takes forever ... You're much better off to take one of your earbuds out and put it in [a would-be girlfriend's] ear. Then you're connected with about two feet of headphone cable." Steve Ballmer defended it: "I want to squirt you a picture of my kids. You want to squirt me back a video of your vacation. That's a software experience." Which prompted theobservation: "Steve Jobs can make sharing earwax sound sexy. Ballmer can make a digital file transfer sound like something you'd need to clean up after."And while we're on "sharing": when do you consider a song played? On an iPod, it's when its reached the end of the song; on the Zune, as soon as you start a song. That's because the Zune imposes a strict "three days or three plays" rule on songs that have been transferred to other Zunes. But you can only enforce the "three plays" rule if you count a song as "played" immediately it spins up. This applies even to songs you've recorded yourself. Goodbye, Arctic Monkeys-style buzz around local unsigned bands.And - no, we're not finished, amazingly - then there's the points currency (familiar to Xbox Live users, but nobody else). To buy songs online, you need a currency called "Microsoft Points". One song costs 79 points, which cost 99c, but only come in $5 allocations. So you buy one song, and your other $4.01 - umm, 319.989898 ... points ... sit there unused. Meanwhile, Microsoft has your real cash.Of course, Windows 1.0 was pretty rubbish too. By 2010, maybe Zune 3.1 will be worthwhile. By which time iPods will probably fly.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
We get far more letters each week than we can print. This week, we did a special, taking almost all of the letters about spam out to generate our front-page story. But there were many others (including blog observations we couldn't include). So here's the list from which we chose our front-page piece and the letters inside.SPAM: CAN WE CONTROL IT?Your leading piece today, "Why spam is out of control" (Technology Guardian Thursday 09.11.06), prompts me to tell of my recent experience of spam and to suggest an additional reason for the upsurge. I am on pay-as-you-go and ordinary dial-up service. My ISP, Wanadoo/Orange (formerly Freeserve, as my email address continues to be) early in September this year changed the dial-up telephone no. and its charges and time charge periods (although I've not fully checked the differences here). One consequence or, more likely, associated reason for this change has been BT's denial of Best Friend (20% discount) or standard Family &amp; Friends discounts (10%) to the new number (0844 instead of 0845). This will put up the cost of dial-up pay-as-you-go and of course the profits too for both ISP and BT. Since this change in service the volume of spam has increased and so has some of its character. I was already receiving a lot of spam compared to a year or two before and the volume has almost doubled. Freeserve/Wanadoo operates a spam "filter" which labels the subject line of incoming emails SPAM!, but this gives both false positives and false negatives (and inconsistently) so that each retrieved batch needs to be inspected and sorted manually. With the change of service the spam filter seems more consistent and more accurate but still requires inspection and sorting; the increase in volume has offset any gain in sorting efficiency that greater consistency might have brought. The increase in volume also increases the time online, dialed-up, which increases the cost to me and the revenue to Wanadoo and BT, the more spam the bigger profits. I am cynical perhaps, but wonder what other people have experienced. My occasional accurate counts suggest that about 90% of emails are spam, confirming the figure you quoted. The recent increase in volume is not so much an increase in character or types of content as it is in multiplication of the same message, sometimes in exactly the same configuration (addressee, sender, subject line) sent at same time, sometimes (and increasing I think) the same message with different senders, or sent at different times, or with disguised subject lines giving no hint of the true content. I also get different addressees. Outlook Express, and the way the ISP responds, retrieves all email at one go addressed to my domain name (after the @) whatever the account - i.e. the prefix before the @ - I ask it to use and whatever actually appears in the spam email. About 50% of my spam is addressed to some cod prefix, like uxbggfu or even just nn (a common and recurring one), and the rest comes to my original email address. This helps sort spam from jam. No doubt one solution to this costly and time consuming and annoying problem would be to get on broadband (even risking bot infection) with a different email address (one with only a server's domain), but it should be possible for the ISP to remove, delete before sending, all but one of multiple messages with the same content. It doesn't seem to care. (Wanadoo never thought to mention the effect of new dialup no. on BT schemes; I had to find it out the hard way, seeking to change my Best Friend no. over the telephone, etc.) From what you say it would appear to be difficult for ISPs to control spam at the sending end, but it ought to be much easier to deny delivery to spam. If bureaucratic email filters can refuse delivery to messages containing 4-letter words etc., surely there is some relatively sophisticated software around that could refuse delivery to a fairly large proportion of junk mail. I hope you can return to this problem and ask, what's in it for the ISPs to allow so much spam. George Rehin, Lewes[The article] was very interesting. However, I have fallen victim of this in another way. Increasingly organisations are installing powerful spam filters which are blocking my legitimate emails because the adult dictionary objects to my surname. In the last few months this has caused me a lot of problems and, as a result, I changed my email address to remove my surname from it but the spam filters still object to my surname in the body of the email. Usually when one of my emails is blocked it falls into a black hole and I am not aware that it has been blocked until I phone the recipient to ask if he/she has received my message. Is there anything that I can do instead of changing my name? The IT Managers at both Richmond Fellowship and Ujima Housing Association have confirmed to me that their spam filters will not accept my name. Additionally, as you will see from the attached, I have the same problem with the adult dictionary at Gallions Housing Association. &gt;&gt; The message sent to [address removed]; on 2006-11-09 10:06:34 may be inappropriate. Sender: En Route [address removed] Message subject: Policy name: Global Filter name: GHA Adult Sensitive Words (Isolate) Action on the message: Quarantine(quarantine);Notification;Drop &gt;&gt; I will have to adopt a deliberate misspelling of my name. John Loveridge, BrightonOrange (formally Wanadoo and Freeserve) is one of the ISPs which do filter port 25 - annoyingly in my case as it means I can't use my university's mail servers to send emails. Orange force all outgoing mail on port 25 through their own mail server - you have to use your Orange login details in order to send emails through it. Due to this, I'm not able to connect to my universities SMTP [mail sending] server while at home. I can bypass it of course, being a somewhat tech savvy student by utilising a VPN [Virtual Private Network] - but that's complicating the issue at hand. The only reason I need to send emails through my university's SMTP server is that it rejects emails sent from my university address to others at the university [if that email] did not originate from its own server. Philip Parker, CarnoustieSpam *is* technically sortable, and relatively easily (no need for everyone to ditch Windows just yet), but sorting it would put the anti-spam businesses out of business as well as the spammers and the realtime black hole list maintainers would lose their ego trips, so where's the motivation for that to happen? My two quick suggestions: Option 1: X.400 - mail technology from the 1980s, ignored today because it pre-dates the Internerd era, but designed from the ground up to have security built in (the military still use it where it matters). X.400 needs a bigger email client and mail server than POP/SMTP stuff, because X.400 is a mail system that inherently knows how to handle authentication, certification, and lots of other good stuff that the POP/SMTP world doesn't. POP/SMTP has barely changed since the era of the teletype, when 128kB was a lot of memory and Windows didn't exist. X.400 was designed by the telecom industry (people who know who to make things work reliably), intended for use on what were then "real computers", many of which would be rather less powerful than today's mobile phones and PDAs. Imagine if phones worked the way POP/SMTP email does (or doesn't)... The end result is that when an X.400 mail arrives the recipient can tell whether it comes from where it appears to be from, they know it hasn't been tampered with since it was sent, and it has other features too such as possibilities for secure/non-deniable "delivery receipts" and "read receipts". The X.400/X.500 world also knows how to keep "what is John Smith's email address" (the directory) separate from "who is John Smith's ISP" (the connectivity provider) in a huge distributed environment but that's another story for another day. X.400 can of course interoperate with POP/SMTP but you lose many of the advantages if POP/SMTP is still in the picture. Option 2, the less "emotionally uncomfortable" one: widespread use of authenticated SMTP, which would for most users (and ISPs?) be a trivial change to their existing setup. If ISPs all offered authenticated SMTP so there was no legitimate need for port 25 to be open because there's no need for Joe Public to use port 25, port 25 could be blocked as per your article and as per some ISP's practice. The botnets wouldn't be effective because without the required authentication information from the end user, the botnets wouldn't be able to send mail. That answer doesn't provide the end to end security that X.400 has but it would be quick and simple to do this one. It might need some changes (to get authentication info from the user) to some legitimate apps which today have trivial access to be able to send emails, but wouldn't that be a price worth paying? See any technical difficulties with that? Ask your favourite ISPs how tricky that would be? Spam makes money for spammers and also for a whole PC-centric "anti-spam" ecosystem. Spam isn't (just) a technical problem, the technical solutions exist, but they're not going to happen till there is economic motivation for them to happen (which needs something a bit stronger than unenforceable anti-spam laws). This isn't the time/place for me to explain the technology, I'm afraid, but feel free to ask someone who really knows. For obvious reasons you have to ask someone with no financial or emotional interest in maintaining the status quo though. Which obviously rules out folks like Graham Cluley, and also rules out many ISPs. For X.400 you probably also need to ask someone over 40, someone old enough to remember when it was in use outside the military. I've had a yahoo email address since the mid 1990s. It gets tons of spam because I accidentally put it out unmunged on a news posting, and once addresses are out they get traded between spammers. I also have a forwarding address at the Institution of Electrical Engineers which I have only given to reputable contacts. Unfortunately it seems one of those contacts has recently had their address book raided, because in the last week or two the IEE address is starting to get spammed. That's a nuisance already, and it's going to get worse. Something needs to be done, and the solutions being proposed by the vested interests may be good for them but they are far from ideal for the end user. John Wallace, BirminghamA very interesting article. However, you missed out on one way of preventing your computer from becoming a botnet. Ensure that its operating system is OSX. Jonathan Duckworth, StroudYour article says: &gt; Hart wishes that ISPs would simply block all unauthorised traffic on port 25, which computers use to send email. &gt; He argues that any port 25 traffic not destined for an ISP's own mail server and accompanied with an authorised user name and password should be rejected. However, neither of the UK's most popular ISPs, BT Retail and NTL, block this port, although they do scan for bot-like activities on their own network. No. Bad idea (unless I have totally misunderstood how this works). You know the email services such as Hotmail or Yahoo. Most (all?) of them have a webmail interface, but many of these (such as the one I am using to send this mail) also allow POP3 [mail download] access so customers can read/send their mail using a mail program rather than the html interface. If some ISP started blocking port 25 access and I was no longer able to send my mails via my email program, I would first put in a strongly worded protest and then start looking for a new ISP if they did not stop immediately. A change of use of that magnitude would allow me to terminate my contract immediately. Several mail providers impose an upper limit as to how many mails you can send in a certain period of time. Think 100 mails a day or something like that. *That* should help a bit. Andrew Williams, FrankfurtThis was a fascinating article, well researched and clear. Why, though, in the conclusion was there no mention of avoiding kind of malware such as the Stration worm by using a non-Windows operating system? I know the vast majority of users use a Windows PC but Apple Macs and PCs running Linux are nowadays easy to use and master. In particular Ubuntu Linux is well within the reach of an average user. In addition, the cost benefit and increased system stability means that I for one have made this my preferred solution. Mark Tweedie, CoventryRe: "Why Spam is Out of Control" May I remind Charles Arthur of his piece in Gruaniad Unlimited Technology of 12th Jan 2006, where he blithely wrote that "spam has had its day" I notice that, curiously, this article in not linked to or referred to in today's piece, and indeed seems to have been removed from the Grauniad's servers (unless Google is having a bad day). I put it to Charles that he is an mercurial loon. Yours-quite-clearly-right-all-along David Davis, Brighton [The article is online. In retrospect the idea that spam is "past its peak" is clearly wrong - Charles Arthur, Technology editor]Not a comment but a question: It's obviously a bad idea to have your email on a website as the netbots can pick it up. But do they read the code or just the text? Colin Taylor, Dumfries [They read any text with an "@" in as an address - Technology Ed.]Perhaps it's time for the IT security industry to bite the bullet and secretly design &amp; deliver their own worm / Trojan that will hunt out &amp; clean up spam-bots? Yes, lots of hand-wringing over that idea - but this could be one of those occasions when the forced administration of medicine is just what the millions of patients really need. Michael Russell, no post town givenYour article on increased spam activity concludes: "and turn on Automatic Updates in Windows". Doesn't seem logical. We've just read that the latest bot versions have disguised themselves as Windows updates. It's the logical thing to do, if you are a hacker good enough to program this. I hate automated updates. I hate things happening in the background without me knowing. I want Microsoft to give me a list of updates marked clearly by date so I can see which ones I have already got. I want to go to their website and pick the update myself. So I know where they are coming from. I don't let my machine talk to anyone without me knowing. That's where the tiny personal firewall comes in. It shows you how many applications (Microsoft and other) nonchalantly try and connect to some server on some dubious errand. What really helps is using non-English applications. My Firefox speaks Finnish - if a "patch" speaks English, I know it's a hoax. My main bank account is in Finland - if someone sends me an e-mail from "Visa" and speaks English, I don't have to open it. But your article is right - usage of spam and spyware have exploded. My spam ratio this time last year was, maybe 5:1; now it's 25-30:1. When I'm on the dialup, I get pinged about 10 times a day. Happened maybe once a week last year. Irene Moser, Melbourne, Australia&gt;&gt; ISPs and PC vendors need to do a lot more work to educate people into protecting PCs that are connected to the internet. Currently it seems that the vast majority of PC owners have no idea of the problems so they just carry on regardless. The article contains a guide to checking to see if your PC is being controlled in this way. Everyone with a PC connected to the internet[1] should be encouraged to go through this procedure and then to install decent firewall software.http://blog.dave.org.uk/archives/001139.html&gt;&gt; One thing I didn't get the chance to talk about in the article was weird, hashbuster spam with no apparent payload, as outlined athttp://www.boingboing.net/2006/08/09/classical_literature.html. Conspiracy theories abound, suggesting that spammers are simply trying to confound bayesian filters, but Occam's razor suggests that these are misconfigured spam emails, or misfires where botnets already have the text designed to fool the search engines, but don't get to talk to the mothership and receive the actual payload.http://www.itjournalist.com/?p=76(Danny Bradbury's blog)&gt;&gt; I work for an email security software vendor that specializes in defending against the high concurrency loads created by botnet attacks. Botnets are _the_ problem facing the global email system these days. At the recent MAAWG conference in Toronto (http://maawg.org), I spoke to numerous operators of large email receiving networks such as Road Runner and Outblaze and all report that volumes are up substantially. Combatting this new kind of spam traffic is going to take a new approach (read a paper by our director of research here:http://www.onlamp.com/pub/a/onlamp/2006/10/12/asynchronous_events.html) but one thing is clear regardless: hosting email is no longer for the timid. The botnet issue requires a serious amount of work on the part of ISPs to resolve. Blocking outbound ports on cable and DSL networks is a very challenging proposition for a large service provider, since it involves setting up complex customer support systems to deal with all the "exceptions." I think that service providers inevitably will have to deal with the fact that they are the source of most abuse — lest they be blackholed by large email receivers at the Autonomous System level. It's just a question of how long it will take service providers to do this. I spoke with Time Warner's anti spam manager recently and he said it's in the pipe, but will take a "long time." Until then, cross your fingers that the botnets don't become even more sophisticated. Ken Simpson (comment onhttp://www.itjournalist.com/?p=76)&gt;&gt; The customer support issues would end up being huge, I guess. I know that some ISPs are putting in outgoing traffic analysis to try and stop spam before it leaves their servers, but as the spam gets more complex and the volumes per machine reduce, I imagine that's going to be harder to achieve. One thing they should be able to do is block dynamic IP addies, which of course are where most of the botnet traffic comes from. The problem is that this is apparently more difficult than it looks. TQM3 told me that some ISPs keep all their IP addies dynamic but reassign them to 'static' customers by referring to a MAC address. That makes it very hard for the blocklists to keep up, and they end up having to treat all of that ISP's address blocks as static and then trying to pick out offending addresses on a piecemeal basis. (response to Ken Simpson by Danny Bradbury onhttp://www.itjournalist.com/?p=76)Could you please correct the address where we can find our IP addresses. The reference in 'Why spam is out of control' in todays edition is incorrect. Please email it to me so I can see if I am in trouble. Tony Grimley, no post town given [sorry, it was an editing error. The correct address ishttp://noc.net.umd.edu/cgi-bin/netmgr/whoami]DAB AUDIO STANDARDSI think this is a very interesting article. But isn't the truth that internet radio has already outmoded any type of DAB radio? I can pick up an internet radio from Dixons for £100 which, with wi-fi in my flat, will play any of over 2500 radio stations from around the world with high quality sound. And, of course, I can play the same stations on my computer already anyway. The reception on DAB radio regularly cracks up, the extra channels largely all sound like Virgin radio anyway, and the licensing system seems to preclude any sort of innovative broadcasting. I guess that the DJs of the 60s who started on pirate radio stations would not choose to perform on DAB these days: they'd go straight to the Net. Unless DAB both improves its coverage and licences creative broadcasting, it's doomed before it's really taken off. The former may happen; the latter I don't think is likely. Colin Keatinge (no post town given)If my experience is anything to go by I am not surprised. The quality is woefully short of what I have been enjoying for years on analogue. I bought a Pure DAB radio a year ago, and suffer from 'splashy' sound and occasional descent into silence. I have two Freeview boxes, and radio reception via that means is also unreliable (as is TV on occasions, with sound failure and pixellation of the picture). Analogue TV and radio ain't broke. Why fix them? Robert Caldicott, Banbury&gt;&gt; I've been complaining about the poor quality of the DAB/Eureka 147 standard for over 9 years now, so it's heartening to see that World DAB is dumping MPEG 2 and moving to AAC. Of course, there are many other issues with digital radio, such as the pernicious influence of intellectual property and the creeping privatization of the airwaves, but one step at a time, right? The focus of the Guardian report is on the fact that Britain - as one of the few countries to have had a significant DAB roll out - now has an obsolete standard, and a lot of (rather expensive) radios that won't work with the new standard if/when it is adopted there. I'm particularly struck by the statement from the Digital Radio Development Bureau that "If people didn't like [DAB radios] they wouldn't buy them and we'd be dead in the water." Of course, since governments are pushing digital radio adoption - and planning eventual elimination of the analogue signals, as with TV - it's not a level playing field. People, for the most part, have been satisfied with analogue radio (particularly when it's enhanced through the use of RDS) but 'progress' demands that radio be digitized. Just like our 'stupid ould pencils' I suppose.....http://funferal.org/mt-archive/001225.htmlGOVERNMENT STIFLING INNOVATION?Scientific research and technological development usually lead to innovation. The lead times range from a few years to decades and even longer. However, many innovations are clearly not the result of science or technology; examples are reality television shows, new taxes and new methods of making money. The latter usually have very short lead times; hence the greater interest of politicians, businessmen, journalists and almost everyone else in a hurry to become famous or get rich, which after all is the sole objective in life in western civilization of the late 20th / early 21st century. In the UK, this is the heritage of both Thatcher and Blair and their cronies, sidekicks and, indeed, challengers. As a mathematical physicist, recently retired, for the past forty years I've had an informed view of the almost total lack of interest or understanding in the role of science in modern society shown by politicians, economists and business leaders. Why these people should in the last few months suddenly pretend to be interested in science is amusing, for it is easy to see through their stratagems. They want to use science to justify policies and business plans that will, they hope, keep them in power. It's that simple. Even more striking is that these business and government leaders do not understand how science works, what methods it uses. This is apparent from the way they try to use it for their own ends in the most puerile ways. They use the single word "science", without distinction or even nuance, to cover all branches of knowledge from physics and astronomy to climate forecasting, sociology, economics and, no doubt in some cases, astrology. This is simply not good enough. They need to increase and improve their vocabulary, and at least make some effort to comprehend the difference between laws of nature and hand-waving arguments based on mere extrapolation of time series data. Anthony Dunning, FolkestoneSINGLE-PIXEL CAMERA"Plus ça change, plus c'est la même chose" ! Of course, the single-pixel camera has been around since the invention of television, a single light-detector having the incoming image scanned onto it, originally by mechanical means, and later electronically. In fact, I imagine it would be possible to simulate a TV picture by applying a suitable drive signal to the mirror array in the article. Additionally, I believe I have seen an item on imaging using random patterns, in a space gamma-ray telescope. It's interesting to see old techniques reused in new ways ... Mike Whittaker, StapletonMICROSOFT AND NOVELL&gt;&gt; Well it seems to me Microsoft is still doing what it can to destroy Linux, only this time It's the old if you can't beat em', buy em', line of thinking. Yes, I realize nobody can 'buy' Linux, however creating deals like this with all the major players will put their dirty little mitts into more slices of the pie, so to speak. If these companies really want virtual, they should just use VMware, that is where the smart money is, imho.http://www.muddysmind.com/archives/001244.htmlCARTOONS My New Filing Technique... ...is brilliant. That's it really, keep on publishing it, it's the best cartoon around. Murray Goulden, no post town givenMICROSOFT WORD WITHOUT A WORDNo need for macbore to have his lunch spoilt (Letters 9 November). When his mum wants to open Word docs without MS Office, he just points her to the free download of Word Viewer athttp://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyId=95E24C87-8732-48D5-8689-AB826E7B8FDF&amp;displaylang=enwhich allows her to view, copy and print Word docs without owning MS Word. She could get the Excel Viewer, the Access Viewer and the Powerpoint Viewer while she's there. Then she can claim she really knows *her* way round a computer. John Dean, OxfordROBOTS ON THE BATTLEFIELD("Launching a new kind of warfare, 26 October) American History still holds King George III in distain because he hired the Hessians as part of the British response to the American revolt. That sense of immorality grew not out of the cowardess of the Germans but out of the basic principle violated by their employment. The idea of human equality is based on the simple recognition of the equal frailty of every human body, its capacity for death. The use of money to buy the death of others without the reciprocal danger to the payer upsets the basic equality that makes human responsibility, citizenship, and justice possible. The ironic use of technology and money by American forces to avoid the harms they deal to others -- as again the massive hiring of secular capitalists to "handle" other war functions -- suggests how far the U.S. has strayed from the basal understands out of which it grew. The historical recognition that the growing sirens of money and technology are irresistible does not forgive or even ameliorate the hypocrisy of our indulgence. Dan Fineman, no post town given
"Scores of Second Life shop owners on Wednesday closed their stores in protest against Linden Lab and threatened the creator of the online fantasy world with a class-action suit, saying the company was responsible for the release of an in-world tool that could be used to copy their virtual wares," reportsInformation Week."Fearful of losing their intellectual property, store owners said their shops will remain closed until they're sure they could protect their property. The retailers, who pay a monthly fee for the virtual land to set up shop, accused their landlord of failing to respond to their concerns."Later, the story says:The controversy revolves around the software tool CopyBot, developed by the open-source group Libsecondlife. The group works with Linden Lab to identify vulnerabilities in the system that could be exploited by malicious users. CopyBot was created as a debugging tool, but was altered by someone outside the group so it could be used to copy objects within Second Life. "Even avatars have been copied right in front of people's faces, so that they were looking into a mirror," in-world resident CaveCub Milk wroteComment: There have been plenty of virtual worlds before, starting withMUD(Multi-User Dungeon) at Essex University in the early 80s, and growing throughWorlds Away(nowVZones), which had a graphical world with avatars over a decade ago. What makes Second Life attractive today -- especially to large corporations -- is the opportunity to control their intellectual property and make money. That's why CopyBot is a threat to this particular virtual civilisation.Of course, even if CopyBot is blocked, it won't end the problem. It will probably just lead to the creation of more tools that do the same job.Nick Carr has covered many of the issues inKnockoffs roil Second LifeandThe dingo stole my avatar.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Readers of theValleywagblog have just seen it go through one of the more dramatic upheavals in web publishing history, somewhat akin to replacing The Sun with The Times. It was run by Nick Douglas, a hip young kid plucked out of college. He's been replaced temporarily by his boss, former Financial Times journalistNick Denton, who started theGawker Mediaempire (Gawker, Gizmodo, Kotaku, Lifehacker, Wonkette, Fleshbot and more). The Valleywag site has also suffered a complete redesign, making it look much more formal and more in the Gawker style.There has, obviously, been lots of speculation about what happened, but The New York Times blog Dealbook haspublished a leaked emailthat explains the reasons, including this bit:Gawker sites are designed to be written from an outsider perspective. That's one reason we're game to hire writers like Nick Douglas, who came to San Francisco last January straight from college as a near-total outsider to the web scene. But anytime a writer settles in too closely with the subjects he/she's writing about, there comes the inevitable tradeoffs: favor trading, and an elevated sense of one's own importance to the field at hand. Both, to some degree, ended up being the case here.Things may have been brought to a head by an entertaining blogcast/interview that Douglas did with RU Serious, published in10 Zen Monkeys. The zine has followed up inSorry 'Bout That, Nick!Denton has his own explanation inValleywag Release Candidate 2One aspect of being back at the sharp end comes in one of Denton's comments to his own post: "Man, 12 posts a day is exhausting. What fucking idiot set that as the standard?" There was a very funny response in Gawker, which providedSome Helpful Tips For The New Fellow At Valleywag, which says "We have to admit that we've felt a more-than-miniscule frisson of joy as we've watched that site's guest editor struggle and scrape in an attempt to make the mandated 12-a-day post count." Gawker's tips include:* Naked chicks amp up clickthroughs. Rock 'em.* Master the art of the filler post. Linkdumps and bullets are your friend.* When all else fails, never underestimate the power of a screengrab to masquerade as actual content. It's quick, it's easy, and requires little effort on your part.So good luck, Valleywag guy. Follow these simple rules and you'll be blogging like the pros in no time. And remember: There's no one you can't afford to piss off. You're the boss.Denton said "we'll still run stories on billionaire bad behavior, Valley hotties, and Eric Schmidt's adultery," but the content has changed a lot. It's not as entertaining, but it's more relevant and much more informative. In publishing, that counts as progress. In the blogosphere, who knows?
Microsoft's European staff put masses of time and energy into organising their third Innovation Day in Brussels last week, only to see their efforts upstaged by their star guest, Bill Gates. At a round-table with journalists, Microsoft's co-founder remarked that Windows Vista had survived antitrust complaints by rivals who had tried to "castrate" it. Which would journalists rather discuss, castration or innovation? No contest.Still, the widespread belief that the European Commission, chiefly in the form of competition commissioner Neelie Kroes, is out to castrate Microsoft is, it must be assumed, a core reason for Microsoft's charm offensive. In this case, Gates did a quick walkthrough of the new European Executive Briefing Centre, accompanied by MEPs and TV cameras, before giving speeches with Finland's prime minister Matti Vanhanen, also the current president of the EU; Jean-Philippe Courtois, president of Microsoft International; and Nikolay Vassilev, Bulgaria's minister of state administration."Europe is home to some of the world's leading universities and some of its most innovative companies," said Gates. "Because innovation is the key driver of growth in today's connected, knowledge-based economy, it is critical that governments and private industry in Europe work together to create a climate that will enable innovation to flourish across the region." This is a roundabout way of saying something like "call off your antitrust attack dogs, please".Also announced was the Microsoft Language Development Centre in Portugal, and an S2B (Students to Business) community programme that will target computer science students in eight European countries, plus Turkey and South Africa. These are in addition to the $500m (&pound;262.4m) that Microsoft says it will invest in R&amp;D in Europe by 2007.Although seen as a US invader, Microsoft is already one of the leading companies doing research in Europe. The company points out that on the R&amp;D Scoreboard compiled by the Department of Trade and Industry, Microsoft climbed from 11th place in 2003 to seventh last year and to fifth this year. It also says it has filed for 420 patents based on research done in Europe, including 284 applications from Microsoft Research Cambridge and 41 from the European Microsoft Innovation Centre in Aachen.And if all that weren't enough, Microsoft had a couple of floors in its Brussels EBC packed with exhibits from European organisations, including BT, the British Library and European universities. The exhibition went beyond Microsoft's innovations to include other things that could plausibly be connected with Microsoft products, especially Windows Vista.Nonetheless, it has to be said that Microsoft's main US research centre in Redmond stole the show, with a presentation byAndy Wilson. He's developed what he calls "surface computing", which enables him to manipulate images and data on any surface, such as a tabletop, by using real-time computer vision, gesture recognition and short-throw projector technology. You can move images around by moving your hands, without touching the table, and make them larger or smaller by raising or lowering them. Rick Rashid, who runs Microsoft Research, had already shown this in Brussels last December, but only on video. What made it compelling was that attendees could try it themselves.John Winn, from Microsoft Research Cambridge, also attracted a crowd with an object recognition system developed with Antonio Criminisi and others. Stick something under Winn's webcam and it would instantly recognise and label it - hand, pen, watch, phone, can, keys or whatever. MEPs and besuited executives probably don't carry too many objects that would challenge the system, but some fun could be had by trying. (http://johnwinn.org.)The Microsoft Research centres in India and China were also represented, with peer-to-peer file browsing and sharing for mobile phones and on-demand video search respectively.Among the commercial applications, one highlight was CrimeSceneNet software from Imasoft ApS, Denmark - having blood-spattered bodies on the floor attracts attention, even if they are dummies. The software, designed for Vista, pulls together and displays all the data connected with a crime scene in one place. It's being tested in the US and Europe, including Northumbria, for release early next year (www.crimescenenet.com).It's not clear that this concerted investment in Europe will raise Microsoft's image with the centralised bureaucracy that runs the EU, but all the separate countries, universities, research centres and computer science students want more of it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
We bought a house in a rural area of Derbyshire and although we were a long distance from the nearest exchange, we could successfully get a 512kbps broadband connection. However, after a BT "repair" that eventually fixed our line following a storm, we found ourselves without a broadband service and, after getting BT to identify the problem, blacklisted from an ADSL service. Cable is not an option here, 3G too expensive and dial-up is too slow, but we found an ISP that provided a one-way satellite service (AVC broadband). After signing up (£130 set-up fee plus £30 a month subscription) we received a letter from AVC informing me that it will be ceasing its one-way satellite service from January 2007.So we are now having to once again search through a list of unknown suppliers of satellite based services which may/may not go bust at any time. Each one seems to use slightly different equipment and so requires yet another expensive purchase. There must be tens of thousands of people just like us having the same problems. Does anyone know of a reliable and reasonably priced provider of satellite based broadband (one-way and two-way)? Mike ThompsonAVC users have the option to move to a Mediasat.ie service for home broadband (www.mediasat.ie/homebb.htm) but "that's up to them," says an AVC salesman. An alternative would be to go for a BT or BTapproved service (BT also sells its satellite service wholesale), but these are generally aimed at business users and not particularly cheap for home users. For example,Broadband Wherever.netstarts at £60 per month. However, skyDSL (www.telesskydsl.com) might be an option. Since the withdrawal of BT's ISDN Home Highway service last year, users who are beyond the range of ADSL don't have much choice. We're interested in hearing from readers who are using skyDSL or another satellite broadband connection.
I've been happy with AVG's free edition 7.1, but have been told that it will cease to be supported in January next year. Can you please suggest an alternative? Les DixonYes, I suggest you switch to the new AVG 7.5, which is also free. Go tofree.grisoft.comor, more specifically,here.
I used to turn off my old broadband router overnight as it ran very hot and I live in a timber-framed house! It used to reconnect instantly, but in the past few months took up to an hour, so I began leaving it on permanently until it gave up the ghost. My new wireless router doesn't even have an on/off switch. Should I turn it off? Richard ByattSome cheap routers have small, badly designed cases and do tend to overheat, which can cause connection problems and means they tend not to last. After one died in my rug, I've taken to mounting them higher up, on legs or at least raised using Blu-Tack to improve air circulation. Certainly don't stand any router on something hot, and don't cover it with papers or whatever. Some do-it-yourselfers have been known to bore holes in the cases and install small fans. However, routers also tend to work better if left on all the time, so that's what I do and normally recommend. Just unplug it if going on holiday. An ADSL router should reconnect in a minute or two, at most. If there's a problem, the flashing lights should help you figure out what it is.
Having spent a lot of time getting a new PC set up as I want it with Windows XP Home, I'd like to take a snapshot of the system to an external drive, so I can recover to that point if I ever need a new disk, or have to reformat the old one. Can Windows System Restore be persuaded to do that? I don't really want a full disk image like Ghost generates. Clive PerkinsSorry, System Restore does not do the job, and a Ghost-type disk image is what you need.Acronis True Imageseems to be the software of choice at the moment, but there are half a dozen alternatives including Terabyte Unlimited's Image for Windows (www.bootitng.com/imagew.html), and Easeus (www.easeus.com/disk-copy), which is free.
From your recent item,Xdrivesounds just the ticket for backing up my data. But AOL seems to require a zip code (and not a postcode) in order to set up a screen name, and hence an account. Any idea how to get round this? Richard Rusbridger, James Gordon, Laurence Errington and othersYou can sign up for Xdrive if you have an AOL screen name, and you can get one of those by signing up for a service atwww.aol.co.uk. Otherwise use one of your fake US identities. American university websites are a good source of generic phone numbers and zip codes that are likely to be used by large numbers of students.Backchat: Diino UK (www.diino.co.uk) says that it is now offering 2GB free. Its new version 4.0 client software "adds mobile phone access, personal blogging, secure email, and automatic backup to its powerful feature set," says the company.
One of the things I love about cycle sport is that there are so many varieties: sports within a sport. For most of the world, perhaps, there is just the Tour de France every year in July and then some strange antics in a velodrome every four years at the Olympics. But competition goes on all year round, especially at the grassroots.October and November are the months for hill-climb competitions: all over the country, the little 60-kilo guys get their hour - or rather, their three minutes - of glory by racing up the local landmark hill against the clock. Then, for the connoisseur of the truly arcane, there are roller leagues (sprint competitions on stationary bikes) and cycle speedway races. Indoor velodromes, too, stay busy and brightly lit through the dark evenings.But the competitive spirit survives out in the fresh air also. I am a big disappointment to mountain bikers because their world of racing - from cross country to enduro events and downhilling - is a largely alien subculture to me; I don't know to report it. But the one area of substantial overlap is the winter sport of cyclo-cross. For this, mountain bikers and road racers alike abandon their machines of choice and adopt a kind of hybrid beast, which has a frame, handlebars and wheels like a racing bike, but brakes, gears and knobbly tyres more akin to a mountain bike.I'm a late convert, but "'cross" - as its devotees invariably call it - has become perhaps my favourite cycle sport. It has a glorious simplicity, since all it consists of is charging about a muddy field for an hour. Typically, a course is laid out around a school playing field or suburban park, on which elsewhere your usual Sunday football games are going on.'Cross is a winter sport par excellence: gritty, physical, dirty. I was going to describe it as being a bit like rugby on a bike, but without the tackling - then I recalled that in the last race I did, I tangled with another rider and he ended up on the floor. Tricky off-camber corners and greasy surfaces, in any case, make falling off a constant hazard - but, generally, you land on grass or mud and you're not travelling that fast, so injuries are rare.'Cross can be harrowing at times, but it is also tremendous fun - for sheer kicks, the best I've had on a bike. The kind of activity that, afterwards, makes a mug of hot, sweet tea taste like the best drink in the world.But best of all is the inclusiveness of cyclo-cross. It gathers up all ages, both sexes, and all abilities. The atmosphere has an informality and friendliness quite unlike the nervy clique-ishness of road-racing events. No one cares what you wear or what kind of bike you have. In fact, if you haven't got a 'cross bike, you can use a mountain bike. That's how inclusive it is.&#183;For more information on cyclo-cross, go tobritishcycling.org.uk/Bike docI recently chained my bike to a fence opposite the London Eye. When I returned, I found an additional chain, placed there by people claiming to be London Eye security. They came up with a complex explanation of how they were doing me a favour, as they had persuaded the security people from the building that the fence belonged to them and not to remove my bike. To remove their chain, I was required to put a &pound;10 donation in their charity tin. How legal is this? They said the fence was private property, but I saw no signs. I frequently leave my bike chained to railings but how am I to know if someone might "clamp" it or confiscate it?Ralph Evinsvia emailIf those railings are private property, then the owner would be within their rights to "clamp" your bike if suitable advice had been given - that is, warning signs. But in this case, it sounds as though you may have been the victim of a con. In general, it is best to use what is unambiguously street furniture on public property (and ideally, purpose-built bike parking). I tend to steer clear of railings on buildings because you can't be sure there isn't an owner who will take exception - even if there are no signs.
Data managers at local authorities are a mild-mannered lot. To be good at the job takes a passion for accuracy and a sense of humour, not a big ego.Worms are turning, however. Council executives in charge of maintaining databases of land and property are in the frontline in the battle against one of the biggest absurdities highlighted by Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign: that councils have to spend local taxpayers' money for the privilege of using data that they themselves largely created.The data are accurate lists of addresses, essential for public services and collecting council tax. Councils are responsible for naming and numbering streets (see 'What's in a name?', below). Most compile electronic gazetteers to ensure addresses are consistent and up to date. To be useful, however, these gazetteers must contain data from other parts of the public sector: geographic information from Ordnance Survey, a state-owned trading fund, and postcodes from Royal Mail, a state-owned company.Paying for postcode searchCouncils say they provide lists of street names and numbers for free - but Ordnance Survey and Royal Mail treat their data as a commercial asset and charge other public bodies to make it available to the wider public.When a local authority puts its schools admission system online, as required by the e-government programme, it must pay Royal Mail if it wants to allow residents to search for a school by postcode. "We provide our data for free and they sell it back to us," says Kristin Warry, national chair of street gazetteer custodians.Royal Mail says that the sums are tiny: authorities pay 0.5p a click, or a flat fee per domain. However, councils, under constant pressure to meet new centrally set financial targets, have little slack in their budgets. The final straw is that from October next year, the charge will double. Jennie Longden, head of address management at Royal Mail, says that these are the first price increases since 1995.The result, though, could be a grassroots rebellion. David Heyes, address manager at Wigan metropolitan borough council, Greater Manchester, says he is "very uncomfortable" with the click fee.Wigan is an example of a local authority making good use of address data. It is one of England's best-run councils, qualifying as "excellent" in official rankings.Good administration, though, is only possible if everyone is working to the same data. At Wigan, all departments use a single land and property gazetteer. Good address data helps the council keep track of abuses, such as commercial builders pretending to be householders to dump rubbish. Local authorities are involved throughout the lifecycle of an address. Creating a new home or building requires planning permission, which means that every new address goes on the council system from the word go. Councils also have a strong incentive to keep their databases up to date: their revenue depends on it. Wigan collects more than 99% of all taxes owed - the UK average is 97%.All this, says Heyes, is a good argument for councils to be in charge of the whole addressing system, which would be made available across government. One snag is that only about 320 of the 388 councils in England have fully functioning land and property gazetteers connected to a central resource, the National Land and Property Gazetteer. Another is the intellectual property question. Battles over copyright and revenues in address data have already wrecked several attempts to create a single national database of addresses.In the wake of such failures, Ordnance Survey has launched its own addressing product in the form of a new layer of data on its digital master map of Great Britain. In July, following a complaint by a commercial competitor, the Office of Public Sector Information warned it to change its licensing for addressing products, to make procedures fairer and more transparent.Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign offers a way out of the imbroglio. Surely there is a case for something as simple and valuable as lists of addresses to be declared open? The problem is that without such a radical step, the mood is driving government in the opposite direction. Angered by the new Royal Mail charges, local authority address managers are now talking openly about charging for their side of the bargain. "We'd say, OK, we'll pay for the postcode, but when you use 25 Acacia Avenue, that's 0.5p back to us," says Heyes.Make OS pay as wellDatastandard, a web community for professionals, has suggested charging Royal Mail between &pound;250 and &pound;1,000 for notifications of changes to local gazetteers. "I suggest Royal Mail pass on some of their costs to Ordnance Survey, but that's for them to sort out," said Robert Kimber, of Luton council.Longden said this week she would have "absolutely no issue" with paying for data, provided it was of high enough quality. However this would be yet another step away from free data - and a barrier to joined-up government. Local authorities are now hoping for central government to bang heads together. In the meantime, Heyes would like a popup on council websites, warning that every postcode search will cost local taxpayers half a penny."We've had enough," says Warry. "When we heard about the price increases, our first reaction was shock and resignation. We're now determined to make sure it doesn't happen again."&#183; What's in a name?Under the Public Health Act 1925, councils are responsible for naming and numbering new streets, properties and homes. When a developer applies for planning permission to create a new home, it is first logged against the description of the building plot. The council then creates an address and enters it into the local land and property gazetteer. Next it is posted to Royal Mail's address management centre at Shrewsbury, which adds the postcode. Royal Mail then passes it to Ordnance Survey to add geographical data. The complete address then goes to the national land and property gazetteer. Under a government-wide agreement, local authorities then pay Ordnance Survey and Royal Mail to use the complete address databases.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
When you're a startup, ambition is everything. How big you think your business will grow can often be the determinant of how big it will be under you: if you sell software and your licence serial numbers only have four digits, it's a clear indication to potential customers that you're going to be surprised by No.10,000. If your licensing scheme has room for 14 digits, you're clearly awaiting the time when you conquer not just Earth, but Mars and Titan too.For example, take Tinyurl.com, a free service which we use at Technology Guardian to print short URLs instead of long ones. Tinyurl accepts a URL, enters it into a database, and generates a (random, I think) six-character code to go with it. Enter that URL into a web browser, and it goes to Tinyurl, where the web server grabs the six-character suffix, looks up in its database which URL you actually want to go to, and sends you there.Why six characters (lower-case letters and the numbers 0-9)? Because it gives you 36 choices for each position. With six characters, you've got 366, or 2,176,782,336, choices. That's 2.2bn possibilities before Tinyurl stops accepting new links to websites, PDFs and so on. Though the web may have billions of links, not every one gets entered into Tinyurl, which has room to grow for a long, long, long time. But imagine if its inventors had thought five characters enough: they'd only have 6m options. As it claims 2.8m already, the crunch would be on the horizon.The year 2000 mess was a classic example caused by using only two digits for the year instead of four. But the inventors of the internet didn't think big enough either. Internet addresses are made of four bytes, each offering 256 numbers. That gives 4.29bn possible web addresses - not even enough for all the people on the planet. Adding just one more byte to each potential address at the design stage would have given 1bn billion possibilities. Instead, we're having to "re-architect" the system to cope with IPv6, able to handle billions upon billions of addresses, at a total cost of &pound;200bn or so.Even Microsoft has been tripped by this. If you could get your Windows 95 or 98 installation to stay running for 49 days and 14 hours, it would halt. Why? If you do the maths, that's about 4.29bn milliseconds. The counter for the system's uptime was four bytes long. When it filled up, the system froze. (See the admission athttp://tinyurl.com/y5mc35.)By contrast, look at YouTube. How big does it expect to become? By their URLs shall ye know them. Two, chosen completely at random, arewww.youtube.com/watch?v=BtfFlT0fb68andwww.youtube.com/watch?v=VGNnDI6lREY.Ignore the stuff up to the question mark (though it's interesting to wonder what the "watch" could be replaced with - "buy", perhaps?). So now we have the text v=, and some gibberish. Clearly, "v=" means "the video ID is". (Notice how YouTube's designers have given themselves plenty of wiggle room. Perhaps in the future they could have a URL including "a=" for "audio file ID is" or "f=" for "film ID is".) At the end is a Tinyurl-style 11-character code. But this one uses upper- and lower-case letters as well as numbers. That gives 62 combinations for each of the 11 character positions. I did the maths: YouTube could host a total of 5.2 x 1019 videos. That's about 10bn videos per living person. Possibly it uses some subtle coding, where (say) each of three characters indicates the day, month and year of upload; that still leaves 629 possible videos, or 2m per living person. (YouTube didn't respond to a query about this.)So: YouTube could index more videos than there are stars in the galaxy, with millions of (time-coded?) videos about each of us. It certainly fits Google's mission of organising the world's information. Scarily.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I am not an elitist. Recently I've been pointing out that the technology used in the UK for DAB (digital audio broadcasting) is obsolete, that the sound quality is inferior to FM radio and that we should be preparing to move to a new DAB2 standard.To recap, DAB in the UK uses MP2 (MPEG-1 Audio Layer II) compression, which performs badly at the low bitrates used by almost all the UK's DAB radio stations. The BBC's own research says MP2 needs 256kbps to sound good, while 224kbps is "often adequate". The best you get now, outside Radio 3, is 128kbps. It's not good enough.The new standard codec for DAB2 is AAC+, which does sound good at 128kbps. Switching to AAC+ would therefore make all the current stations sound better if they used the same bitrates. The more likely result is that many stations aimed at less critical audiences would reduce their bitrates (saving them lots of money) - and this would free up space on the DAB multiplexes for even more new stations.The only people who lose are the ones who have already bought DAB radios, which are incompatible with AAC+. This is hard cheese, but most or all of the current stations could keep transmitting MP2 for, say, five years.Between 3m and 4m DAB radios have been sold here in the past decade, but that isn't a reason for selling another 20m of the same. In fact, smart consumers may want to wait until dual-standard radios appear, as I'm told they will.However, British consumers are being short-changed by the BBC's support for low-quality audio. The BBC has been the foundation for some of the best of the British hi-fi industry, particularly through its FM broadcasts and reference loudspeaker designs, such as the LS3/5a.With that heritage, BBC radio should not now be falling short of 1982 CD quality. It should be aspiring to the sound quality of HD-DVD and Blu-ray. It would cost very little to do.The BBC could, for example, broadcast better-than-DAB audio using its satellite feeds, according to a paper I've been emailed by Steven Green. He has an MSc in communications and signal processing from Imperial College London, is a columnist for Hi-Fi World magazine and runs the digitalradiotech.co.uk website; his co-author, David Robinson, has a PhD in psychoacoustic modelling and digital audio coding.The core of this bit of the argument is that the BBC has massive amounts of bandwidth available on its digital TV platforms, including 36.2Mbps on Freeview. Apparently the BBC uses 256kbps just to transmit the audio with BBC1. Why can't it find 256kbps for a standalone radio station?For comparison, the BBC is transmitting radio via satellite at between 128kbps and 190kbps, whereas ARD in German is using 320kbps for stereo radio and 448kbps for surround sound. Green and Robinson argue that, if the BBC can't broadcast decent audio via DAB, it could use its other digital platforms. And this could be done by devoting 1% of the BBC's available DTV bandwidth to radio instead of the current 0.7%.According to Rajar's audience research published in August, more people listened to digital radio via the DTV platforms (38.9%) or the internet (22.8%) than had DAB sets (15.3%). This is in spite of the fact that the BBC has spent vast sums (if they were in the form of paid advertisements) promoting DAB, and nothing at all to say: just connect your Freeview/satellite/cable box to your hi-fi and your radio will sound even better.So why doesn't the BBC deliver really high-quality radio via Freeview/satellite instead of flogging the dead horse that is DAB?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thereviewsare in this week, with a couple of 360 big hitters taking centre stage - Call of Duty 3 and Gears of War. I reviewed the former - great, but essentially more of the same - while Gears of War got 5 stars. I've played Gears and I'm not so convinced. Yes it looks great - especially the urban backdrop and Ico-style washed out lighting - but I still can't get too excited by it. The musclebound characters are laughable while, in what I've played so far, the action is intense but oddly unsatisfying. Online may prove a bigger draw when I get on later this week but if ever a game was aimed at 17year-old males this is it. And for a game hyped as being the next big thing I expected a bit more than that.
Nerve-wracking....YouTube sitehere. Shot with aNokia N73.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too athttp://technology.guardian.co.uk/weekly/- where we're looking at readers' suggestions for stopping spam, how councils are angry at being charged for postcodes, Microsoft demands Europe call off the attack dogs, YouTube gets Gamesblog (and vice-versa) and much more... including DAB vs AAC+ and games reviews..Six steps to stopping spamMore and more junk mail is finding its way to our inboxes every day. But what can be done to combat the viagra merchants? Charles Arthur examines some solutions.A one-way street to postcode madnessAn up-to-date list of addresses is vital for local authorities - but they have to pay for the data they created themselves.Gates leads Microsoft's charm offensive in EuropeInnovation Day was both a showcase and a polite way of asking Brussels to call off its antitrust attack dogs.I'd better get my hair cut: we're going on YouTubeAleks Krotoski: A few years ago, I regularly and wittingly humiliated myself on television. The reason I bring up this mosey down memory lane is that I'm about to take part in a return to regular broadcasting. The Gamesblog team is starting its moblogging and I get to join in.GamesGears Of War | Call of Duty 3 | Star Wars Empire At War: Forces Of CorruptionWill Nintendo's Wii whip Sony's PlayStation 3?It certainly looks that way, based on the reactions of non-gamers who have been trying it out. In the US, reviewers have been raving about it.Can you say anything nice about Zune?Oof, that's a tough one. How about - by the time it reaches Britain (rumoured to be in 2008), we'll know whether it's worth buying, or was just the Microsoft Office paperclip assistant of MP3 players?We will all be stars in YouTube's galaxyCharles Arthur: When you're a startup, ambition is everything. How big you think your business will grow can often be the determinant of how big it will be under you.TechnobileChris Partridge: If computers keep taking over our brainwork, soon we will be nothing more than fat sheep with fingers.'To Microsoft, we're a source of smart people'Andrew Herbert, the head of the Redmond giant's research lab at Cambridge, is justifiably proud of the successes clocked up by the team he took over in 2003.The BBC is shortchanging consumers on digital radioJack Schofield: Iam not an elitist. Recently I've been pointing out that the technology used in the UK for DAB (digital audio broadcasting) is obsolete, that the sound quality is inferior to FM radio and that we should be preparing to move to a new DAB2 standard.Security that is small and imperfectly formedA nanotechnology experiment that went wrong could lead to the ultimate weapon in the fight against the forgers.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesIntel has quads | Deathly screen saver | Cray targets petaflops | Player X aims for the bull | Watershed for Christmas | Christmas stock in | Saddle up your virtual pony
I've always quite enjoyed the puzzle game Lumines but have never appreciated it as much as I thought I should. Could being a man be the problem? UK psychologist Susan Quilliam has looked at why some games - in this caseLumines II- appeal more to women than other games. Yup, it's time for another girls and gaming study."Contrary to popular belief women don't want fluffy themes in their games," says Quilliam. "Women's sensory perception and wider peripheral vision means they spot game elements more speedily and successfully than men do - and Lumines II's structure and design allows female players to capitalise on all these strengths".Apparently games like Lumines II and, presumably, Tetris, "appeal to the female ability to analyse, categorise and link large amounts of small detail". Elsewhere she suggests that multi tasking is easier for women - something to do with the two halves of the female brain being physically better connected than the male.Spurious research to advertise a game or is there some truth to her findings? Aleks? Care to comment?
Brussels gave Microsoft a nine-day deadline yesterday to provide its rivals with outstanding details of its software systems or face fresh fines.Neelie Kroes, the European Union's competition commissioner, gave the world's largest software group until next Thursday - Thanksgiving Day in America - to hand over all relevant information about the secret protocols behind its Windows operating system. Ms Kroes fined Microsoft &euro;280.5m (&pound;190m) in July for failing to comply with commission rulings and could now fine it up to &euro;3m a day.In an interview with the Guardian, she made plain that her patience had run out, saying: "I don't have eternal life." Microsoft, which is launching its upgraded Vista operating system this month, had promised to deliver all the details - to allow its systems to operate fully with rival networks - by July 19.Ms Kroes said: "I am not impressed if someone says 90% of the information is already there when we need 100%. It's a jigsaw and some parts are missing ... In my opinion, this information should have been here a couple of months ago."Her predecessor, Mario Monti, fined Microsoft a record &euro;497m in 2004 for abusing its market dominance. The group felt it had struck a new relationship with the European Commission after protracted talks on Vista, in which it offered to share software details with rivals.Competing companies say the offer is inadequate. Ms Kroes denies she is pursuing a vendetta against Microsoft, but has vowed to maintain relentless pressure on it to comply with EU competition rules.She insists that strict application of the rules is vital to boosting economic growth and jobs in Europe - ensuring that companies are innovative and that small and medium-sized firms are able to enter the market and compete successfully. "I am the referee of the game and I will be tough and fair," she said. She would not shirk from decisions on anti-trust activities, mergers or state aid. "I will not tolerate economic nationalism or attempts at bullying by member states or big companies," she said, pointing to the record &euro;1.3bn fines imposed on cartels so far this year.She also signalled determination to fine mainland energy groups for failing to open networks to competitors. In addition, she wants a single regulator to police the EU energy market and ensure that national regulators stick to the same rules. Her plans will be announced on January 10.In May, the commission raided utilities in six member states, including Germany, as part of its inquiry into excessive concentration in the energy market. Ms Kroes said the results indicated that large companies were continuing to break EU internal market and competition rules. Further action was needed. In January, the commission will require big integrated groups, such as Germany's EO.N, to sell off their transmission networks in order to separate them from their generation and supply businesses - and to let in new investors."There's so much money available to invest in infrastructure and make the difference in our gas and electricity supply, so we need to get rid of the barriers to potential new entrants and let the market do the job," she said.Yesterday, the commission approved the merger of the Franco-Belgian energy group Suez with Gaz de France after securing their agreement to substantial asset disposals in France and Belgium in order to remove barriers to new players. The assets to be sold include Gaz de France's 25.5% stake in the Belgian power company, SPE, over which Britain's Centrica has pre-emption rights. Centrica said it would buy the stake if the price was right - a deal that would give it control of SPE.Ms Kroes favours cross-border mergers in energy and other sectors such as financial services - helping to create pan-European players, capable of negotiating with big suppliers such as Russia. "I don't believe in national champions any more: it's an outdated concept, and we are losing the game if we continue protecting them. I'm all for European champions, but I prefer global champions which are located in Europe and can help grow the economy."She is also keen to secure a better deal for consumers from banks and financial services firms which charge wide variations in payment card fees. "I buy it when there's not a complete similarity in charges, but not 400% ... It shows what's rotten in the state," she said. Details of an EU study of the financial services industry will be published on January 17.BackstoryNeelie Kroes, a former Dutch liberal politician, was appointed as the EU's top anti-trust official - one of the most powerful jobs in Brussels - in 2004. She has more business experience than her predecessors. When appointed, she was on the supervisory boards of O2, Volvo, Thales, Lucent Technologies, Dutch Railways and Royal P&amp;O Nedlloyd, but resigned before taking the EU post. Although many saw her business roles as good experience for her new job, critics pointed to potential conflicts of interest. She proposed desisting from ruling on cases involving companies with which she had been involved. She has so far excluded herself from 20 cases.
I don't know how I missed this, but in last Saturday's Weekend section, Guardian television guru Charlie Brooker confessed that he thinks games are better than television.After all, speaking in my guise as a so-called TV critic, I can confi dently state that games are markedly better than television. They're more immersive. Consistently more spectacular and surprising. The storylines and scripts are almost always utter rubbish, but that's part of their charm.Furthermore, as a medium, TV encourages you to switch off your brain and slowly coagulate on the sofa. Video games force you to stay alert. Furthermore, you control them. They start and stop when you like. There's no continuity announcer jabbering over the credits. Your intelligence is rarely insulted, but regularly challenged. There's more invention (and sheer joy) in a single level of any Super Mario platformer you care to mention than most TV series manage in their entire lifespan. PC shooter Half-Life 2 is a sci-fi action thriller; it's 10 times more exciting than the best episode of 24 (which I love).I highly recommendthe entire article. Brooker speaks rather eloquently about why "games are brilliant".
Zune may make it pay to share songs with other people,according to rumoursat Gizmodo, andWeedmay be how it's done.It's a reasonable bet that Microsoft knows about Weed, because of things like this story from its local paper:Seattle's Bands for Fans is growing like a Weed. This reported a free music festival:Among the featured services at the event will be Weedshare, a homegrown file-sharing system developed by Shared Media Licensing. It uses Windows Media format files to allow users to trade and post music while still allowing artists to directly earn revenue."Using Weed files, indie artists can put their music on their own Web sites, blogs, or MySpace pages and they don't have to compete with every other band on iTunes," said John Beezer, president of Shared Media Licensing. "They have full control over the message, the mood, and the branding around their own art."O'Reilly's Digital Media sitehas an account of how the profit motive kicks in:Unlike iTunes and other downloading services that cough up only short excerpts, the Weed system lets each file play three times in its entirety before asking the listener to buy it. When that sale is made, unlocking the file, the original artist receives a whopping 50 percent of the purchase price.But here's the brilliant twist: the person who previously purchased the file gets 20 percent of the money. The next sale nets that person 10 percent; a third sale pays five percent. (Shared Media Licensing takes 15 percent of each transaction for administrative fees.) By the sixth first-level referral sale of any given Weed file, the initial sharer is actually beginning to turn a profit on his purchase. Co-founder Steve Turnidge compares it to buying stock in a band: the better your picks, the more money you make.Comment: The system is great for the artists, because they get a lot more money per sale than the record companies, the online music store and the credit card payment processors, who pocket most of the cash from iTunes. It's great for the users who share files, because if they pick up and distribute popular songs, they get a free supply of music. It could be great for Microsoft if -- and if's a big if -- the system takes off and drives Zune sales. Ultimately, it could even destroy the music industry giants who currently control the industry -- which is unlikely but would be nice.But this is all hypothetical at the moment. Microsoft has not announced Weed-style sharing. We don't know if it will license Weed or produce a knock-off that might confuse and possibly ruin the market. Either way, it's certainly an interesting idea in an industry that is desperately short of them.
If you've watched Elspa's Java download charts over the last two years, it'll be pretty clear to you how to succeed in the mobile games industry: convert a classic eighties title or buy a current movie license. But for those developers without an extensive back-catalogue of arcade gems or enough global clout to negotiate the rights to the latest blockbuster flick, it's not always that simple.The problem is, mobile gamers still have little to go on when making a purchase. Java titles are usually bought via network operator portals or those mobile download ads in lifestyle mags, so all users are going on is a screenshot and a title."If you want an analogy, think back to the earliest days of the home computer revolution in the UK," says mobile industry expert Brian Baglow. "Back then you used to have to buy new games from the classified ads in the back of magazines. This is similar. You're basing your purchase on very slim information and choosing what sounds like it might be interesting." In this context, at least big movie translations or eighties arcade smashes have the advantage of familiarity, so unsure consumers go for those.It's the vicious circle that's still strangling the industry after several years in existence. Customers buy branded content from network portals so network portals buy branded content from publishers who then go on to commission branded content from developers. Often, originality doesn't get a look in.Increasingly, though, studios are finding interesting ways to get around this apparent lock-out. And often the answer is humour. UK developer Player X, for example, has found a profitable niche for itself, turning eighties game shows into simple mobile titles. Having already translated Blockbusters, The Price is Right and Sale of the Century, the company is now pushing its latest purchase, Bullseye. Of course, this still involves a licensing deal, but you can bet it was easier to come by than negotiating for the rights to Casino Royale.These games tick all the right buttons, as far as the mobile games business goes. They're ironic and amusing, they have retro kitsch value (so may often be downloaded simply out of teary-eyed nostalgia) and they all have quiz elements. Quiz games do extraordinarily well on mobile. "We've been delighted by the success of the games and they have exceeded our earlier optimistic forecasts," smiles CEO, Tony Pearce. "and they're not just successful in the UK. We have published and completely localised titles in every European country and we've also placed them in Australia and selected Asian territories. You'd be surprised how international these game shows are.. some countries even accepted them even though the shows had never aired on TV there".As for totally original IP, humour is still a key selling point. The Finnish developer Mr Goodliving has done great business with its Turbo Camels series of casual games. They're visually attractive and compelling (especially Turbo Camels Circus Extreme which allows you to shoot the animals from a cannon...), but the key to success is the title. It stands out amid a sea of generic pool sims and puzzlers.There are other approaches to the enigma. Brian Baglow compared the mobile games industry to the early home computer days - and like bedroom coders in the 1980s, one of the ways mobile developers are getting their titles noticed is by cheekily piggybacking off of big TV, game and movie brands. Glu Mobile for example, recently released the excellent little RPG Stranded, a clear reference to Lost. Also, Gameloft's New York Nights and Miami Nights social games have obviously been influenced by The Sims - graphically they look very similar, so customers perusing their network portal or Java download ads for new titles will see the screens and make the connection.Failing that, sex works reasonably well - especially if its combined with humour. Glu (again) managed to get its daft little action game Sexy Babes Wild Waterslides into the Sun, Nuts and Maxim, simply by paying some well-known glamour models to pose in bikinis for a promotional photoshoot and then selling that onto the appropriate publications. It's a little seedy, but it worked. Stick the word 'Sexy' into a mobile title and you're immediately boosting its chances in the crowded marketplace. Sexy Football, Sexy Pool, Sexy Suduko... it really doesn't matter.Of course, the mainstream videogame industry isn't exactly an oasis of original titles, but at least here there are dedicated media channels to work through. Videogame magazines and news sites, of course, offer a chance for fresh titles to be spotted - especially at this point in the lifecycle where new series' are starting up on the next-gen consoles. There are few such outlets for mobile games.But whether the future lies in making free demos available or lobbying the videogame media to cover mobile titles, the industry cannot flourish on movie brands and old coin-ops forever. As Pearce concedes, "Original IP is hard to break at the moment, but saying that, it is crucial for the success of the genre in the future."
Wednesday'e edition of Chatterbox. Again.
Amazing to think thatGoogle Base is one year old today. As predicted, it proved so powerful and so easy to use that it has already gobbled up most of the world's information, made Craigslist redundant, and brought Amazon to its knees. It just proves how right Google was to ignore microformats etc. Just imagine how much more amazing it will be when it comes out of beta in another four or five years! Or not, as the case may be....
Hard to know if YouTube has changed since it was added to the Death Star or whether it's still acting off its own bat, but Michael Arrington of TechCrunch fame has just published a "cease and desist" letter from hot-shot lawyers Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &amp; Rosati, representing YouTube.He writes:We've been accused of a number of things: violating YouTube's Terms of Use, of "tortious interference of a business relationship, and in fact, many business relationships," of committing an "unfair business practice," and "false advertising." The attorney goes on to demand that we cease and desist in from engaging in these various actions or face legal remedies.Well, crap.The offense we committed was creatinga small toolthat lets people download YouTube videos to their hard drives. We referenced the tool ina recent postthat walked people through the process of moving YouTube Videos to their iPod.Comment: It's amusing to see a company built partly if not mainly on copyright violation start applying double standards as it seeks legitimacy, but Arrington says he is likely to remove the tool so as not to upset Google's all-powerful PR machine.Of course, there are lots of similar tools around. And I'm sure they are getting lots of use at the moment as YouTube users grab anything worth having before it's removed -- like all those J-Pop videos. YouTube quality may be crap but it's better than nothing.
One of the things I get most interested in is the attempt to - after all, it doesn't matter how many wireless gizmos you use if you can't charge them up. The fact that my mobile ran out of battery at inconvenient moments twice during the last week has only added to my determination to uncover innovative new power sourcing.So it was with some interest that I picked up some research from MIT in which Marin Soljacic, an assistant professor, is developing new wireless power technologies.The story's running on theBBC today, although it still seems quite up in the air:The team's system exploits the resonance of electromagnetic waves. Electromagnetic radiation includes radio waves, infrared and X-rays.Typically, systems that use electromagnetic radiation, such as radio antennas, are not suitable for the efficient transfer of energy because they scatter energy in all directions, wasting large amounts of it into free space.To overcome this problem, the team investigated a special class of "non-radiative" objects with so-called "long-lived resonances".When energy is applied to these objects it remains bound to them, rather than escaping to space. "Tails" of energy, which can be many metres long, flicker over the surface.We've discussed wireless power before - not least in the form ofSplashpower, a British company that makes electromagnetic induction chargers. No need to plug in your gadget here, just leave your device sitting on a plate and it will boost it.The MIT research goes a step further, but it's at the problematic stage of being purely theoretical: and I'm no expert, but I do imagine there might be issues with constantly bombarding people with particular frequencies. But good luck to them.
Dell has announced anXPS 710in its extreme performance gaming line, available with the new Intel Core 2 Extreme QX6700 quad core processor, "which can deliver up to 55 percent better performance than an Intel Core 2 Extreme dual-core processor," says Dell. The chip costs $999 from Intel so it's not a cheap system. "Prices start at $3,699 for the Jet Black chassis" -- add $100 for the red version, above -- and you may as well throw in a 30inch (2,560 x 1,600 pixel) Dell UltraSharp 3007WFP-HC screen for only $1,699. Better still, throw in two...Comment: If you happen to like the case (bizarre idea, but possible), then you can buy the do-it-yourself version without an operating system or hard drive for only $1,229.UK prices start at £2,749for a quad-core system. Add £1,161 for a 30in UltraSharp widescreen.
Nintendo's Wii -- or, really, the Wii Sports game -- has gota rave review in Time magazinebefore the US launch on Saturday. Wilson Rothman writes:Everyone sampled all five Wii Sports. Tennis is still my favorite, but my wife got into the more cerebral Golf, achieving victories on the Wii what she was unable to deliver during her high-school golf-team years. Bowling probably came in third place, though Baseball and Boxing found fans. By the end of the weekend, the little machine had hooked ten people of very different temperaments and interests. Only one among us, Chris, was a bonafide gaming guy, and his years of button mashing didn't give him an unnatural advantage over anyone else. Excited as I was about my own attraction to the Wii, I was stunned by its universal appeal.Comment: The strategy of targeting non-gamers is looking good so far....
Here's a nice idea fromNokia- music recommenders, a service where they bring together recordheads to point out new music for you.Among the recommenders areDavid Bowie(he's the one on the left, kiddies) as well as music maestros from some of the world's best music shops such hip-hop mecca Fat Beats in New York. I spoke to Nokia's David Robertson earlier, who assured me that it's not part of a revenue sharing deal - so the recommendations are purely altruistic.If you're the kind of person who trollsLast.fmfor new music, or spends an inordinate amount of time in record shops, it could come in handy. I already keep my eye on David Byrne'sradio playlist, which has thrown up a few gems, and so getting recommendations from someone like Bowie wouldn't be half bad.PS: Unfortunately it doesn't work on Macs. Nyargh!
Zuneis now on sale at more than 30,000 retail outlets in the US, and several cities saw launch parties featuring acts such as the Red Hot Chili Peppers and The Secret Machines -- there are highlights onZune.net. The stress is on the social aspect of sharing music.Speaking at Microsoft's annual shareholders meeting, Microsoft chairman Bill Gates said: "We're changing entertainment from something you do in isolation to connected entertainment," according toIDG News.This will involve more than connecting to the PC and Xbox 260, said Gates: "There is a lot more coming there."Comment: The next step is already known: enabling current Zunes to share videos they way they share tunes. There will probably also be a connection toSoapbox, now in beta, which is a Flash-based YouTube-style video-sharing site, only much slicker.Logically, at some time in the future, you can expect the built-in Wi-Fi to connect Zune directly to the net. Microsoft will try to create an online community like Xbox Live, with which Zune shares a common currency: Microsoft Points.Microsoft Points are the key to the Zune's profits, if it ever makes any. Typically a credit card company takes at least 2% of the value of any purchase, often more, then adds a transaction fee, which might be 10c to 50c. Buy five songs over a period and the supplier is taking a hefty hit, if not making a loss. With Microsoft Points, you pay $5 or more up front to buy points. After that, the microtransactions for buying songs, wall-papers, ring-tones etc are essentially free. Oh, and Microsoft gets the money in advance.Still, it's rather odd to see so many people complaining about lending Microsoft $4, as if they were only ever going to buy one song. It's not like $4 was a big deal for people who carry around smart phones, PDAs and high-priced notebook PCs. And the idea has already been seen to work in Xbox Live.
"Enterbrain, publisher of Famitsu, has revealed the the tie-in ratio of software to PlayStation 3 sales is 0.98 - less than one game per console," reportsGamesIndustry.biz. Sure, there were only five games available at launch. But a lot of people didn't buy a game at all, which suggests they are intending to sell their machine for a profit on eBay etc.
There's agreat news storyon seriousgamesource.com about IBM's new IBM@Play initiative. The company is planning to use online virtual environments to teach employees about its 'cultural values, decision-making regimens, and required technical skill sets'. Among the virtual worlds its using are Second Life and India's PlaneShift. The story explains further:"The program was created as a means to accommodate thousands of geographically dispersed new employees who work or reside in remote areas that are significant distances from centralized IBM facilities. According to IBM, one of IBM@Play's chief goals is to take advantage of the internet and its ability to bring people together as a social network, thus breaking down the barriers of distance and satellite office environments. IBM notes that it plans to expand the program next year with the ability to train new employees across the company's global workforce."Are MMO worlds about to become great big corporate training programmes? Will Ghost Recon, Battlefield and Call of Duty gamers find themselves engaging in online battle with groups of middle-managers on virtual outward bound courses? It is such a daft idea it is almost certainly already happening.
