Google has created one of its most elaborate doodles yet to celebrate the 60th anniverary of the first book publication by Stanislaw Lem, the Polish science fiction author whose works included the novel Solaris.The animated doodle features a pensive character with a striking resemblance to Lem who, after some thought, comes face to face with a giant robot. Visitors to Google can use their cursor to interact with the robot, whose chest appears to contain a rather unreliable calculator.The doodle's fairly lengthy animation sequence ends with the message that the art was inspired by Daniel Mroz's illustrations for The Cyberiad, a series of short stories by Lem.The writer produced a range of poems, essays and short stories during the late 1940s and 1950s but his first major work, Hospital of the Transfiguration, was only published in 1955 as the weight of ideological censorship began to lift following the death of the Joseph Stalin.The Cyberiad, published in 1965, was a key work, although Solaris remains Lem's best known work – first published in 1961, it was made into a film by the Russian director Andrei Tarkovsky in 1972 and by the US director Steven Soderbergh in 2002.Lem died in 2006 at the age of 84 after suffering from heart disease.
Gamers have been hit by a fresh wave of hacking attacks – and this time, most worryingly, targeting their accounts on Xbox Live, Microsoft's closed, proprietary and therefore supposedly unhackable online gaming service.Reports are proliferating of Xbox Live users checking the credit card and bank account statements which they use to pay their Xbox Live subscriptions, and discovering payments which they did not make, generally over a period of months, which were used to buy Microsoft Points (the service's currency which enables users to purchase extra downloadable content, games and in-game objects) which were then cashed in to buy downloadable content from EA Sports – specifically Ultimate Team Packs for its games FIFA 12, Madden and NBA.This outbreak of Xbox Live users being scammed has been widely reported as an instance of phishing – where hackers con people into giving away their account details – most notably on thefront page of the Sun. Butanecdotal evidence from games forumsmakes it clear that these are not simple cases of phishing.There is no question that phishing scams targeting Xbox Live accounts are rife: their typical modus operandi involves setting up official-looking websites which purport to be giving away free Microsoft Points, but insist on users inputting their details before they do so. But the nature of the scam dictates that people know when they have been phished, and this particular outbreak only came to light when Xbox Live users scrutinised their bank and credit card statements, not when they snapped up free Microsoft Points. So it is clearly a sophisticated and more sinister new form of phishing – closer to hacking – in which people's crucial account details have been obtained not from them but from a third party.It's easy to see why the scammers opted to purchase Ultimate Team Packs from EA Sports using their ill-gotten gains: they present the ideal means of turning virtual money into real money. FIFA Ultimate Team, for example, is a fantasy league-style extension for FIFA 12, in which players seek to build teams made from the world's best players, and player cards are traded more or less like Top Trumps, with real money changing hands. Clearly, EA Sports has no means of tracking such transactions, otherwise it would be easy to identify the scammers. We have asked the company whether it will introduce any such transaction-tracking in the future. Given that the company has actually profited unwittingly from this scam, it clearly has an obligation to embark on a full and frank inquiry into what happened.There have beenallegations on various online gaming forums and blogswhich, it must be emphasised, remain completely unproven at this stage, suggesting that Xbox Live user account details may have been obtained from EA Sports' online gaming services, which form an extra layer on top of Xbox Live, since EA Sports charges for some services over and above the Xbox Live subscription. Forum posters have even suggested that Xbox Live's support lines could be one source, with scammers ringing in pretending to be the people they want to scam. But that appears to be the level at which the phishing took place – one step removed from the people being phished.Microsoft has issued an official statement, insisting that Xbox Live's security had not been breached (even though there was no credible suggestion that it had). It added: "In this case, a number of Xbox Live members appear to have recently been victim of malicious 'phishing' scams (ie online attempts to acquire personal information such as passwords, user names and credit card details by purporting to be a legitimate company or person). The online safety of Xbox Live  members remains of the utmost importance, which is why we consistently take measures to protect Xbox Live against ever-changing threats." It went on to detail a number of ways to guard against phishing, which can beviewed here.Perhaps ironically, the EA Sports website has a detailed page highlighting how devotees of FIFA Ultimate Team candetect and sidestep phishing attempts. There were also reports in October that gamers werehaving trouble accessing EA Sports' FIFA 12 servers,  although this was thought to be due to technical glitches and bugs in the then newly released game. But it is not beyond the realms of possibility that those problems coincided with a hacking attack.What can you, Microsoft and EA Sports do?First, if you have an Xbox Live account, make sure you scrutinise recent statements for the card or bank account which is used to pay your subscription, for any payments for Microsoft Points cashed in as EA Sports downloadable content that you didn't actually make. If you find any irregularities, the number for Microsoft's Xbox Live customer service is 0800 587 1102. Even if you don't find any, changing your password would be a good policy.It is possible to run an Xbox Live account without giving Microsoft your credit card or bank details – you can purchase Gold subscriptions and Microsoft Points in shops, which get you cards bearing redeem codes that you can input from your Xbox 360. Microsoft has been criticised in the past for making it too difficult for Xbox Live customers to remove their payment details from the service – this can only be done with a call to customer service.Microsoft clearly needs to look at how easy it is for third parties to make fraudulent transactions on its customers' payment accounts, armed only with their Xbox Live login data. And EA Sports needs to take a long, hard look at whether its downloadable content business is putting profit before security – we wouldn't recommend going anywhere near its Ultimate Team Packs until it has, at the very least, put in place a means of tracking transactions that arise from them. If EA Sports turns out to have been the victim of either large-scale phishing or hacking, it needs to come clean, compensate the unwitting victims and make sure nothing similar happens in the future. Otherwise its website will become the exclusive preserve of criminals.
A lot of app developers are making less money from Android than they are from iOS, although often the reason is that they're not releasing their apps for Google's OS in the first place.The perception that Android is a graveyard for paid apps in particular is common, and it will probably be strengthened by a new piece of research conducted by analyst firm Piper Jaffray – best known for its regular predictions about Apple's business and apps ecosystem.Analyst Gene Munster haspublished a research noteclaiming that between its launch in July 2008 and the end of September 2011, Apple's App Store generated 18.6bn app downloads with a total gross revenue of $4.9bn. By contrast, it estimates that since its launch in October 2008, Android Market has notched up 6.8bn downloads, but only $341.8m of gross revenues."In other words, it appears that Apple has roughly 85-90% market share in dollars spent on mobile applications," writes Munster. "While Google has closed the gap in terms of app dollars spent over the last year and we continue to believe Android will grow smartphone share faster than Apple, we believe Apple is likely to maintain 70%+ share of mobile app dollars spent over the next 3-4 years."Munster also thinks that only 1.3% of Android app downloads have been paid apps – roughly 90m – compared to 13.5% for Apple's App Store (around 2.5bn). He also estimates that the average Android device has 34 apps installed on it, compared to 71 for the average iOS device.Compelling numbers guaranteed to make a splash in the apps industry, not to mention the polarised online communities of iOS and Android enthusiasts. But are they an accurate reflection of what's going on in these two markets?We were uneasy about the conclusions, but just as we started to do some number-crunching, we spotted US site Inside Mobile Apps hadgot there first. Its key question is whether Munster is basing his calculations purely on paid app sales, rather than revenues from in-app purchases and advertising.It also suggests that he may be underestimating cumulative Android downloads by more than 1bn, based on its sources – although Google's most recent public number is 6bn, announced in July.The key issue here, though, is that smart developers will not be basing their decisions on which platforms to develop for solely on revenues in the last three years. They'll be looking forward to 2012 and trying to gauge where they can make money when their new projects actually launch.Anyone basing their business on reach – distributing their apps to as many people as possible then making money from IAP and/or advertising – can't really afford to keep their iOS blinkers on in 2012.With 200 million Android devices already activated, and another 550,000 being added every day, Google's platform certainly has that reach.And paid apps? Android Market still needs to prove its potential on that score, but anecdotal evidence suggests that there is a growing demand for high-quality apps, and the floods of iOS-exclusive titles means there is an opportunity for early adopters to get some traction there.Google needs to start shouting about some case studies of developers making good money on Android Market – in the same way it highlights companies who are successfully using its mobile advertising services.It's also notable that Munster's research is based on Apple's own figures for iOS, but third-party site AndroLib for Android. Data is Google's forte, so the more data points it can share with developers (and also analysts) on how to make money from Android in 2012, the better.Or, to frame this issue another way: news that Android has so far made less money for developers than iOS is hardly a secret. It's what happens over the next 6-12 months that will define the important decisions for developers mulling their platform options.
It's the news many thousands of veteran gamers have been waiting for, but few thought they'd ever see. Dizzy, the egg-like hero who appeared in a range of highly successful platform adventures during the 8bit and 16bit eras, is coming back. Codemasters, the game's publisher since the first title, 1986's Dizzy: The Ultimate Cartoon Adventure, has today unveiled a teasing video andwebsite, giving few details, but dropping a lot of very bad egg puns."It's just the start of a great little eggventure," suggested the publisher's head of communications, Rich Eddy, in an email earlier. "More tomorrow, yolks. Erm, folks."The statement is in line with the pun-ridden humour of the games, which usually challenged the rotund hero to save his friends and escape enemies by locating objects and working out what to do with them. Designed by Philip and Andrew Oliver, now the heads of Blitz Games Studios, the titles had a Pythonesque atmosphere, both surreal and silly, and they developed a cult following that continues to this day.Codemasters is expected to provide more information tomorrow, but we can expect the new Dizzy title to appear on iOS platforms first. A boxed copy of one of the most popular instalments in the series – Dizzy, Prince of the Yolk Folk – is visible in one shot from the teaser movie (at 21 seconds), so it could be that the comeback title will be a straight conversion of that 1990 classic.
If you read the Guardian last Thursday, you may have caughtStuart Jeffries' robust polemicagainst "the New Boring" – an entertainment trend in which terrifyingly inoffensive offerings such as Downton, Strictly and Kirstie Allsopp's Home Knit Bakery Challenge (or whatever it's called) have seemingly lobotomised the nation into docile viewing acquiescence. Jeffries borrowed the term "the New Boring" from Peter Robinson of superlative music blog Popjustice, who hasangrily decriedthe comparable "Beige Wave" of audio dullards – the turgid likes of Adele, Mumford &amp; Sons and Laura Marling.Jeffries and Robinson are right of course. In these troubling times, it seems mainstream entertainment has turned into the equivalent of a nervous-looking policeman shuffling in front of a burning fireworks factory shouting, "nothing to see here, more away, please" as a billion catherine wheels ignite in unison. Downton and MasterChef have dropped below the level of entertainment to become gentle cultural sedatives. Meanwhile, our simmering fury at the world is being skilfully channelled, not into marching en masse toward Downing Street, but into shouting at our TVs when the wrong karaoke singer is evicted from The X Factor.Contemporary mass entertainment, then, is largely horrible, asinine and designed to be forgettable and throwaway – like the cheap, impulse garments filling our high-street tat shops. But what annoys me is that there's a vital exception to the New Boring flourishing under the noses of our cultural critics, they're just not seeing it. They are not seeing video games.Okay, so admittedly, games aren't any more in touch with the 'real world' than scripted reality TV shows or the movies of Michael Bay. But at least they are extremely good. This autumn has seen a relentless barrage of acclaimed mainstream masterpieces, from the gothic thrills of Batman: Arkham City to the ridiculously ambitious expanses of Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, via the warm, generous beauty of Skyward Sword. Metacritic, the leading score aggregation site for the music, movie and games industries, has seen an explosion of titles rated at 85% and above. If all this were happening in the TV or movie sectors, critics would be tumbling over themselves to proclaim this a golden age of passive visual entertainment. As it is, critics are simply tumbling over themselves to switch off I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here.And even the biggest, most conservative game releases are many times more adventurous and subversive than their televisual counterparts. The military shooter Modern Warfare 3, which has been derided by gamers for not being imaginative enough, still manages to feature a land invasion of the United States, a shoot-out on a fragmenting jumbo jet, a gas attack on London and US pilots bombing the Eiffel tower until it falls over. It makes Spooks look about as dangerous and apocalyptic as Come Dine With Me.And then there's Saint's Row 3, an open-world crime shooter, that seems to have been concocted entirely by hyperactive 14-year-olds force fed on a diet of sherbet, Red Bull and Korean gangster movies. This is a game in which the player can, entirely at random, bludgeon passers-by with a giant dildo. To the best of my knowledge, Downton Abbey features nothing even remotely comparable – although, to be fair, I skipped most of season two, and may have missed a key scene in which Hugh Bonneville attacks his butler with some nightmarish Edwardian device intended for the cure of female hysteria.At the other end of the scale, there is Skyrim, a game so vast, so open, so wondrously detailed, you can effectively plan and enact your own unique Game of Thrones adventure. Nothing that Zack Snyder hacks together using a digital camera and his comic collection will ever,evercome close to the grandiose vision at the heart of this immense experience.And then Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword... Please, if you are a parent and you want something to do with your kids on a wet Sunday afternoon, don't rent the latest heavily marketed CGI bore-fest from a Hollywood studio more interested in selling you merchandise and the moral agenda of its self-serving financers, buy Zelda. Buy Zelda and share a genuinely thrilling, heart-warming escapist fantasy with your children. Certainly, it's not as "good" as taking them to a museum or getting them to play footie in the park, but if the only alternative is Horrid Henry, it is spectacular – and they will never forget it.That is why games will never be part of the New Boring. Even the annual updates, the tired sequels, the safe Triple A blockbusters, are constructed by insanely dedicated teams whose modus operandi is the construction of memories: the first time Batman lifts his cape and soars over the rain-slick streets of Gotham; the darkness of a looming citadel in the pulverising RPG thriller Dark Souls; Uncharted's Nathan Drake fist-fighting on the open cargo door of soaring aircraft. Interactivity is a blunt but effective tool to ensure attention and alertness. And as such, video games have never sought to stultify or repress. Video games are not interested in teaching us to make the most out of our tired soft furnishings.Of course, the spirit of Jeffries' piece was one of agitation. He wanted us to rebel against mainstream entertainment and its agenda. But that doesn't have to mean chucking your TV out of the window and occupying your town square. If you want mass entertainment that's going to test you, enrage you, get you talking to your family, games are where it is now. Forget mainstream TV, forget it. It's over – at least in terms of water cooler discussion. Apprentice and The X Factor may reliably trend on Twitter, but it's all ironic chatter mixed with barely-disguised collective embarrassment and culpability. There's nothing enriching there.By contrast, games demand immersion and investment. Traditionally, this has formed a stereotype of dead-eyed zombies slumped in front of monitors, but of course, through XBox Live and PSN, gamers now constantly communicate with each other, as well as share creative tasks in titles like Little Big Planet and Minecraft.New research from Michigan State Universitysuggests that gamers are more imaginative story-tellers – the findings are far from conclusive, but they don't surprise me. The game worlds in Zelda, Uncharted and Dark Souls are rich and deep. They are cluttered with possibilities.Big business knows that this is true. Corporations are busily converting their websites and marketing campaigns into mini-tasks and collection challenges. "Gamification" is the communications buzzword of the 2010s. Industry leader Bunchball has supplied gamification tools to everyone from Warner Bros to Playboy; and when Nike introduced its Nike+ range of trainers and gamified jogging apps, sales grew by 10%, with 35% of purchasers claiming to be completely new to Nike products. Games get to us on some primal level, they speak to the machine code of the human id – and that can be a good thing. Last year, game designer Jane McGonigal gave a talk at the TED conference entitled,'Gaming can make a better world'in which she argued that the sense of passion and commitment within game communities could be harnessed to solve real-world problems.You have your doubts and so do I. But the very least mainstream games do is give us a platform to discuss amazing things. When you talk about Zelda or Uncharted 3, you can talk about beauty, art, mythology and adventure; when you talk about the forthcoming Bioshock: Infinite, you can cover architecture, paranoia and politics and it all makes perfect sense. These elements aren't hidden away, to be teased out by cultural studies students desperate to apply their knowledge of Derrida and Saussure. They're there in the very form, the very function of the games. Modern Warfare 3 and Battlefield 3 are idiotic and politically suspect, but give them five minutes and they'll show you more about the computerised lunacy of contemporary conflict than most of those MOD-arranged shaky cam war reports beamed into your living rooms by over-stretched 24-hour news channels.So much contemporary television is transitory and listless – it doesn't try to be memorable, it just recaps everything before and after the commercial breaks and hopes for the best. The apathy of the audience is actuallybuilt in to the format. What a fall from grace. I'll sound like an old codger here, but you couldn't forget Cathy Come Home or Our Friends in the North or Boys From the Black Stuff, the anger and craft seared themselves into your brain. Games don't tell us much in comparison, but at least they know we're listening. And they know we're not bored.
Ask anyone who's studied copyright policy – scholars of music and literature, economists, sociologists, law professors – and they'll tell you that the No 1 problem with copyright is that it is enacted without recourse to evidence.Professor Ian Hargreaves, the latest eminent scholar commissioned by government to review Britain's copyright policy, lamented that his advice echoed many of his predecessors', none of which had been heeded.Policymakers are unabashed about the lack of evidence in copyright policy — the EC's 2011 Single Market for Intellectual Property Rights report declares "The case does not need to be made anymore: IPR in their different forms and shapes are key assets of the EU economy." Of course, "the case does not need to be made" is another way of saying, "the case has not been made".Writing in the Guardian, Ben Goldacre has examined the most-cited statistics about piracy, job creation and GDP contributions in the so-called creative industries and found them so singularly lacking that he declared: "As far as I'm concerned, everything from this industry is false, until proven otherwise."When Andy Burnham assumed control of the DCMS brief in the last parliament, he acknowledged that the policies of his government had flown in the face of the impartial evidence from the government's commissioned research. But he continued and extended those policies, declaring that his policies wouldn't be evidence-based, but rather based on "the moral case at the heart of copyright law".Whatever that is.All this and more is documented in infuriating detail in William Patry's forthcoming book How to Fix Copyright – Patry being America's foremost copyright scholar and author of such standard texts as Copyright Law and Practice.The UK Open Rights Group (disclosure: I co-founded this group and serve as a volunteer on its advisory board) recently contributed some more evidence to the debate – and its very timely indeed.ORG and partner Consumer Focus undertook some empirical research on the state of the lawful market for downloadable movies in the UK. This is important because whenever our government or courts undertake to increase penalties for copyright violations – measures such as our nascent national censorship regime for sites that offend the entertainment industry – it is always with a kind of sad head-shake and the lament that despite the healthy, burgeoning lawful market for downloadable material, stubborn pirates continue to take copyrighted works without permission.ORG's study Can't look now: finding film online investigated the lawful availability of downloads for "recent bestsellers and catalogues of critically acclaimed films, including the top 50 British films" and what they found was that the claims of the lawful market for movies are as evidence-free as the piracy claims they accompany.Here's what ORG found: though close to 100% of their sample were available as DVDs, more than half of the top 50 UK films of all time were not available as downloads. The numbers are only slightly better for Bafta winners: just 58% of Bafta best film winners since 1960 can be bought or rented as digital downloads (the bulk of these are through iTunes – take away the iTunes marketplace, which isn't available unless you use Mac or Windows, and only 27% of the Bafta winners can be had legally).And while recent blockbusters fare better, it's still a patchwork, requiring the public to open accounts with several services to access the whole catalogue (which still has many important omissions).But even in those marketplaces, movies are a bad deal – movie prices are about 30% to 50% higher when downloaded over the internet versus buying the same movies on DVDs. Some entertainment industry insiders argue that DVDs, boxes and so forth add negligible expense to their bottom line, but it's hard to see how movie could cost less on physical DVDs than as ethereal bits, unless the explanation is price-gouging. To add insult to injury, the high-priced online versions are often sold at lower resolutions than the same movies on cheap DVDs.ORG is generous in their conclusions, absolving the industry of culpability for this problem. Consumers have moved online faster than the film industry whose films they want to watch. They are being confronted with the equivalent of empty shelves. It is unsurprising that many people have found ways of discovering and watching films online from unofficial channels. Blocking all the sites that offer non-licensed content in the world‚ presuming this could be done successfully in practice‚ would not improve a consumer's chances of buying a film online that is not for sale.But whether or not the film industry can be held blameless for the patchwork, confusing, expensive, second-rate online market for movies, it's clear that punishing people because they're staying away from the market will do no good. It would be smarter to divert the nation's policy to supplying lawful alternatives rather than beating us up for not buying movies that aren't offered for sale in the first place.Now, here's the question: will government take this evidence on board and act on it, or will they continue the grand, evidence-free tradition?
In recent times, the term "unlimited" has joined "free" in the lexicon of most discredited marketing words.As anyone trying to download a large file during the online evening rush hour will know, unlimited broadband access means anything but. As the traffic increases, connection speeds are deliberately throttled.The "unlimited" controversy has been rumbling on for some time, and the Advertising Standards Agency has looked into it on numerous occasions. The advertising code was updated in September, but the chief ombudsman, Lewis Shand Smith, reopened the debate last week bycalling on mobile phone operators to be clearer about the true limitson their internet service.In a far from clear ruling, the Committee of Advertising Practice has decided it is all right for phone companies to describe a service as unlimited even if it isn't, so long as customers are made aware of the restrictions, and those restrictions do not affect the typical user.The ombudsman's point is that the typical mobile web user is changing. Over half of the UK market is expected to own a smartphone next year, according analyst Kantar, and those with an internet connection will spend a third of their phone time using it.To be fair to the operators, while unlimited data packages were all the rage in the early days of the iPhone, their use is fading out now that the networks fear they don't have the capacity to support snowballing internet traffic.Last year O2, which had the most iPhone customers and therefore the biggest drain on its data service, stopped offering unlimited data. Subscribers can only breach their monthly cap by agreement with the network.Vodafone imposed caps too, citing the need to "protect our network from data abuse". The phone masts, once at the mercy of predatory internet addicts, are now protected by data limits. Exceed them, and extra charges kick in.Orange still has an "unlimited" evening and weekend data bundle. The terms and conditions perfectly illustrate the ombudsman's point. The cap is high – 1000MB per month, enough to download two feature-length films – but what qualifies as data is very restricted. Your phone may not be used as an internet connection for your laptop, for voice and video over the internet (think Skype), for instant messaging, or non-Orange based internet video. Orange warns it will block services, reduce connection speed and even withdraw the offer "in the event that the fair usage policy is abused".That word "abuse" again. On mobile phones the internet is, like alcohol, to be consumed in moderation, and kept to an appropriate number of daily or monthly units.Alongside caps, high data charges are being used as a deterrent, particularly for the casual internet browser. According to O2's website, downloading a song can use as many as 5MB of data. On a "pay as you go" contract, 1MB costs £3 – I make that £15 per tune, plus the purchase price.Three, as the challenger network, has been only too happy to grab market share from its rivals by offering genuinely unlimited data. With just 10% of UK subscribers, it has the capacity to carry a lot more traffic.Not so its three larger rivals. Until they get their hands on more spectrum in the forthcoming 4G auction, their mobile internet service is in real danger of being overloaded.To illustrate how constrained the current 3G networks are, the forthcoming O2 trial of 4G mobile internet in London, which will use just 25 masts, will be able to carry more data than its entire national network can today.The European chief executive of O2's parent company Telefonica told journalists recently that his firm did not want to be a "bottleneck" on adoption of mobile internet.Nonetheless, until capacity catches up with pent-up demand, mobile internet services will remain far from unlimited.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAnatomy of Facebook &gt;&gt; FacebookTwo studies on Facebook promoted by, er Facebook. Worth bookmarking, at the very least.Separating you and me? 4.74 degrees &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com...And this is what it found: "Adding a new chapter to the research that cemented the phrase "six degrees of separation" into the language, scientists at Facebook and the University of Milan reported on Monday that the average number of acquaintances separating any two people in the world was not six but 4.74."ITC dismisses S3 Graphics complaint against Apple: no violation &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsHTC is acquiring S3 Graphics and had hoped to use its complaints against Apple as weaponry in Apple's attack dating back to the HTC Hero in 2010 which so infuriated Steve Jobs. However: "The US International Trade Commission has dismissed S3 Graphics' first complaint against Apple in its entirety. "The official notice states that "no violation [...] has been shown [...] and that the investigation is terminated". Today's notice does not specify for which reason the ITC overruled the Administrative Law Judge and found no violation. This could be based on a finding of invalidity of the asserted patent claims (from four different but somewhat related patents) and/or a finding of non-infringement and/or patent exhaustion." We haven't been keeping enormously careful score, but in lawsuits with Android sellers, Apple seems to have had the best of it.Can the iPhone 4S replace a "real" digital camera? Ars investigates &gt;&gt; ArsTechnicaSlightly predictable conclusion - that the iPhone 4S benefits from its convenience, but that DSLR lovers won't be trading in their lens any time soon - but worth reading in full to see where this is going.Spotify Says It's Headed in a "New Direction" &gt;&gt; AllThingsDMore partners? Erm.. an iPad app? Erm.. We're scratching our heads a bit, here.The OS Wars: We Have A Winner &gt;&gt; SourceForge.net"We combed through about two years' worth of data on SourceForge, looking at the platforms of the users who downloaded projects, and millions more Mac users are downloading open source projects now than were in February 2010. In the same time, Windows downloads have increased by a much smaller percentage and Linux downloads have actually declined."Galaxy Nexus hit with volume bug in Britain &gt;&gt; The Washington Post"The problem, according to reports on the Samsung UK Facebook page and on developer forums, is very specific, but widespread on a 2G band. Apparently the volume control changes erratically when the phone is on 2G in the 900 Mhz frequency, which is common throughout Europe. Users can't control the volume with the hardware controls and are unable to make calls."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Tuesday. Have you entered the madness of Saints Row 3 yet?
A selection of 10 apps for you today:StampedStamped is the latest iPhone app that wants to get people rating places and media, although instead of a five-star ratings system, it simply asks you to assign stamps of approval to the things you like: restaurants, music, books, films and other locations.iPhoneCityVille HolidaytownSocial games publisher Zynga has launched a new version of its CityVille iOS app with a festive theme. The mechanics remain the same, but the town you're building is now Santa's winter wonderland at the North Pole. Expect elves a-plenty. Players can unlock special items for use in the existing CityVille Hometown iOS game too.iPhone / iPadGoogle SearchNot a new app, as such, but a big enough update to justify its inclusion in Apps Rush. Google's search app has been revamped for iPad, including Google Instant results, and a slide-in pane for websites found through them, viewed alongside the search results. There's a new image carousel, and instant previews of sites before you tap to visit them. But the app also provides access to the web versions of all Google's services, from Gmail and Calendar to Reader and Google Docs.iPadSecure PassBarclays Bank's new Windows Phone app doesn't overdo things when it comes to its Windows Marketplace description: "Secure Pass is a one-time passcode generation application". Basic, but potentially useful.Windows PhoneWolfram Flight Information Reference AppWolfram Alpha's latest iOS app is all about the skies: and specifically the planes that fly in them. It's a handheld way to look up flight times and details, a wealth of other stats, and a show-off feature to see what planes are overhead right now.iPhone / iPadMoneysupermarket.com Car InsuranceWebsite MoneySupermarket has launched a free car insurance app for iPhone, helping people compare prices from various providers on their device, before tapping to call whichever one they choose.iPhoneMills and BoonThe world's most famous romantic fiction brand? There's an app for that, showcasing the latest books in the Mills and Boon series. It's available in the UK App Store, although it appears to be the work of the company's Australian division.iPhoneGigglebies: Garden PartyJelly Bridge Productions' new iPhone app started life as a desktop application used in pre-schools and nurseries. Now it's on iOS, with a range of educational tasks introducing audio memory, shape recognition, colours and sizes and other skills for children.iPhoneBeyond Ynth HDAward-winning action game Beyond Ynth has made the leap to Android, offering physics-based gameplay and more than 80 levels to puzzle through.Android
The launch of theQueen Elizabeth Prize for Engineering(17 November) is timely and symbolic. It will help inspire the new wave of leading engineering minds we so urgently need. It's a turn of the key to unlocking the massive critical challenges facing our world today – from overpopulation to energy security. My institution proposed it. We wholeheartedly support it.But it will be meaningless to the likes of our railway engineers at Bombardier in Derby who are shortly to become redundant, or to the 500 workers at the Rio Tinto Alco smelting plant in Northumberland who have just heard they are to lose their jobs, or to the 20,000 workers in the solar renewables industry whose jobs are at risk due to a government volte-face in energy tariffs, unless more is done to encourage British engineering.We so urgently need clarity in our country's long-term vision for our energy provision, our digital infrastructure and transport. We need a targeted industrial strategy to resurrect manufacturing from 11% of GDP to 20% by 2020. To deliver this, we need the most competitive tax environment in the world. Only if we know where we are heading and with what velocity, will the massive inward and private sector investment needed be applied by confident investors. And only with all this in place, can the long lead-time skills supply-chain of engineers and technicians from our universities and colleges be geared up to a large enough scale to underpin it. You can't stop-start skills and great industries.There are good things coming into place such as the new Technology Innovation Centre and the grassroots of apprenticeship initiatives, but these are mere tactics in the absence of strategy. Our lives and wellbeing depend on engineering. Only with cohesive, joined-up strategies like these can the real benefit for the UK of this new prize be realised.Stephen TetlowChief executive,Institution of Mechanical Engineers
In the guilty pleasures stakes, playing the first two Saints Row games was right up there with listening to 1970s prog rock: great fun until someone catches you doing it.It was all too easy to dismiss them as Grand Theft Auto clones, and at times, they felt a bit like they were made by middle-class white boys who habitually wore backwards baseball bats and referred to their "homies".But Saints Row The Third demands to be taken seriously – ironically, because it goes out of its way not to take itself at all seriously.This time around, developer Volition has embarked on a scorched-earth policy of going as ridiculously over-the-top as is humanly possible. And at last, as a result, Saints Row has stepped out of GTA's shadow and developed a personality of its own.Saints Row The Third starts with such a bang that it leaves you feeling that the first two games were some sort of rehearsal. The 3rd Street Saints have become full-blown celebrities in Stilwater, inspiring a line of merchandising, and with a movie about them in the works.They've pitched up in the bigger city of Steelport and decide to rob a bank, wearing giant bobble-heads bearing the likeness of their leader, Johnny Gat. The bank, though, turns out to be owned by the shadowy Syndicate – frankly, a much larger and better organised criminal enterprise – and after a string of hilarious escapades (including shooting down countless choppers while suspended from one yourself, and parachuting twice from a Syndicate jet that you've helped destroy), Johnny Gat ends up dead.Gat was last seen at the controls of the aforementioned jet – despite, as a character points out, not being able to handle a stick-shift on a car – and so you become the boss of the gang before embarking on twin missions to wreak revenge on the Syndicate and take over Steelport.Aided initially by sexy psychopath Shaundi and urbane gangster Pierce, you swiftly acquire a larger cast of lieutenants – including Oleg, a genetically enhanced giant; Kinzie, an ex-FBI hacker; and Zimos, a pimpish type with an Autotuned voice-box on a stick, whom you rescue from a Syndicate brothel where he's being forced to pull people along in pony-traps, dressed in a full gimp suit complete with ball-gag.Each of this cast of unsavoury but hilarious characters provides you with a mission thread. There are also, of course, countless open-world missions to perform – including stealing cars to order, massacring pockets of rival gangs, causing set amounts of damage to property with the aid of unlimited grenades and taking on assassinations.In other words, Saints Row The Third ignores the mundane in favour of the sorts of OTT missions that cropped up rarely in GTA, but stuck most firmly in the mind.Tanks and helicopter gunships are accessible more or less from the start. There's a constant undercurrent which involves taking the mickey out of 21st-century celebrity culture.For example, you can participate in Professor Genki's Ethical Reality Climax – a TV show in which you must shoot a set number of people, as stylishly as possible, within a certain time. A whole radio station dedicates itself to poking fun at True Blood and its vampiric ilk.The radio stations emphasise the game's debt to GTA, but also that it has been immaculately assembled – anything that, for instance, brings the Icicle Works' Lost Classic Birds Fly to a new audience deserves praise.There are some imaginative weapons, such as one that lets you drive nearby vehicles by radio control, and a satisfying co-op mode that basically encourages you to commit mayhem. And while it may not be the best-looking game, its art direction stands out – the Saints, of course, have their purple livery with its fleur de lys motif, and the likes of the Luchadores – a gang of Mexican wrestlers – are great to behold when you wreak havoc among them.If you've played a GTA game before, you'll know precisely what to expect gameplay-wise from Saints Row The Third, and that in itself is a major recommendation in a GTA-free year.But the fact that it refuses to take itself at all seriously for even a microsecond elevates it way beyond its predecessors. The moral majority will probably froth at the mouth about it, but even they would experience a sense of being undermined if, for once, they broke the habit of a lifetime and investigated the subject of their opprobrium.Because it's so deliciously ludicrous, you'd have to be certifiable to mistake anything in it for real life.• Game reviewed on PS3
Zynga remains the biggest beast in the world of Facebook social games, with 227 million monthly active users (MAUs) according to the latest version of its S-1 IPO filing in the US. The company's mobile business is growing too, but it has yet to reach a similarly dominant position on smartphones and tablets.That S-1 documentprovides an update on the company's mobile fortunes, revealing that in October, Zynga averaged 11.1 million daily active users (DAUs) on mobile, up from 9.9 million during the third quarter of 2011 – which was itself a tenfold increase on Zynga's number of mobile players in November 2010.Inside Mobile Appssets these figuresagainst those of rivals in the mobile social games market, pointing out that Glu Mobile recently announced that it has 2.1 million DAUs across its titles, while Storm8 had four million in June, and likely more now.Zynga is still some way behind Rovio Mobile's Angry Birds franchise, which had30 million DAUs in Octoberaccording to the company's general manager for North America Andrew Stalbow. Rovio may not seem like a direct competitor to Zynga – Angry Birds' social features are minimal – but the S-1 filing includes it in the list of Zynga's key rivals in mobile.The company continues to work on growing its mobile business. Currently, its oldest mobile title Poker by Zynga is the second Top Grossing iPhone app in the US on both Apple's App Store and Google's Android Market, for example – in the UK, it tops the rankings for iOS.The US Top Grossing chart shows how much more competition Zynga is facing on mobile, though. Its other iOS games chart thus: Mafia Wars Shakedown (40th), Hanging With Friends (51st), Words With Friends (52nd), CityVille Hometown (61st), and FarmVille (123rd).Freemium games sitting above this clutch of titles include DragonVale, Zombie Farm, Crime City, Smurfs' Village, Tap Fish 2, Blood &amp; Glory, Top Girl, Original Gangstaz and Tap Zoo – all released by companies who wouldn't have a hope of catching Zynga's games on Facebook.The fact that Zynga has not so far imposed itself on mobile to the same degree that it has on Facebook hints at some important differences between the two platforms, even if those differences may blur following Facebook's extension of its applications platform to mobile devices, with an emphasis on HTML5 games complementing native apps.The stakes are high, as freemium and/or social games are becoming a lucrative business on mobile devices. In July, mobile analytics firm Flurryestimatedthat 65% of the revenues from the US App Store's 100 Top Grossing games came from freemium titles, compared to 39% in January.Flurry also estimates that the percentage of players who spend money via in-app purchases in freemium mobile games ranges from 0.5% to 6%, and that the average amount spent per transaction in these gamesis $14. In November, itmade wavesby suggesting that 58% of all US portable games software revenues in 2011 will come from Android and iOS, overtaking Nintendo DS (36%) and Sony PSP (6%).Watching Zynga try to build its mobile business in 2012, possibly by snapping up some of the developers making those games that are out-grossing most of its titles on the App Store, will be fascinating. Not least because the company will have to delicately tread the fault-line between two big platform owners – Facebook and Apple – while rolling out its ownProject Z platformto sit alongside them.
In 1996, I left the UK to work for Apple in California. At the time, there were few opportunities for an ambitious software developer in Britain. California was a different story. Not only were the world's best software companies based there, but the attitude towards new ventures was completely different and very exciting. Instead of the British attitude of "avoid failure at all costs", on the west coast you are encouraged to take risks and try new ideas. If you fail, you get up and try again. Failure is recognised as the greatest tool for learning; until you've got a couple of spectacular failures under your belt, people tend not to take you seriously.Winston Churchill said: "Success is the ability to go from one failure to another with no loss of enthusiasm." That attitude is at the heart of the Silicon Valley culture.I spent the next 10 years in the Valley, founding or helping to run four tech startups. Then, after three years at Google in New York, I returned to London. I realised the UK has changed significantly while I was away. There are clusters of tech startups across Britain with the biggest being "Silicon Roundabout" in Shoreditch.Working at a startup company is exciting and nerve-wracking. You don't know whether the company will find success – indeed most startups fail. You work long hours to convert an idea into a real product that customers love. You take a small team of people and forge a functioning, successful business. When it goes well, it's one of the most invigorating, challenging and exciting things you can do. When it goes badly, it's a lot less pleasant. Closing down a failed company and laying off the people you've worked with is a hard lesson and you come away determined never to let that happen again.A year ago, I left Google and joined Songkick, one of the original Silicon Roundabout startups. Songkick is a young, ambitious company with worldwide reach: we're currently the second largest live music website in the world, with more than three quarters of our users coming from outside the UK. Our product is used by millions and helps music fans discover great new bands – on average Songkick users go to 70% more concerts in the year after they start using us than they did in the year before.In a time when we seem to be drowning in bad economic news, Silicon Roundabout stands out as a real British success. New companies spring up every week and existing companies are growing fast. In October, Songkick organised the second "Silicon Milkroundabout" a job fair for startups. More than 100 companies attended, offering more than 500 jobs, and 1,500 developers came along on the day. That's up from 40 startups and 400 developers at the first event in May. Clearly there is a lot of interest in working at a startup and there are a lot of opportunities to do so.Last week I met David Cameron at the launch of the Tech City Map. I was impressed by the prime minister's interest in startups. He was informed, willing to listen and to offer concrete help. One of our biggest challenges is letting people know about what is happening in east London and the government's involvement helps us highlight the exciting growth we are seeing. We'd like to see more graduates and experienced developers considering working at the new tech startups and the focus the government puts on the area helps this.In order to keep this momentum going, we need young, ambitious entrepreneurs to build the next generation of products and companies. The education system is slowly changing to meet this opportunity, but the government can do more to help. David Willetts'Behind the Screeninitiative, which for the first time teaches programming at GCSE level, is a step in the right direction. But we need to do more and to do it faster. We should be finding the best future computer scientists and engaging them early. Programming is an incredibly creative activity – you create machines that can do anything you can imagine, unlimited by anything as mundane as the laws of physics. We need to help young people discover the joy and excitement of building software, and companies.Students should be encouraged to think like entrepreneurs. The University of Stanford in California runs startup competitions, gives students time away to start their own businesses and invests in promising new enterprises; that's how Google got its start. We're starting to see universities here do similar things. Graduates with a mix of technical and business skills are particularly helpful for building on the success of Silicon Roundabout.Much of Silicon Valley's growth is fuelled by its ability to attract the best and brightest from across the world. For decades, Britain has seen many of its most ambitious technologists emigrate to the California. But recently, we have started to see Americans coming to the UK to join our startups. At Songkick six of our 30-person team are from the US. We recently surveyed several startups in the Shoreditch area and found more than 50 entrepreneurs who have come to London from Silicon Valley. As the startup scene here continues to flourish, we should be able to bring in talent from within the UK and from overseas. The government's entrepreneur visas are a good start, but we need to make it easy to bring in hi-tech workers from across the globe to help make Britain a powerhouse of innovation.Great things are happening in Silicon Roundabout. Hundreds of new companies have been born in the past two years, employing thousands of people and generating a sense of community and excitement that we haven't seen in the UK computer scene since the days of Sinclair and the BBC Micro. It's time for Britain to embrace the new spirit of risk taking and entrepreneurship that these companies tap into and build a new digital economy. We invented the computer, we invented the world wide web. Let's hope we see the next generation of great internet companies born in Shoreditch.• Dan Crow has been chief technology officer atSongkick, based in Hoxton Street, London, since January 2011. He has formerly worked at Apple and Google.
How does Nintendo do it? Every other year the Japanese publisher releases another Mario platforming title, and every single time it does, the result is brilliant.Mario may have starred in some rather naff games over the years, but when it comes to platform adventures, he's in a class of his own. This may explain to some degree why Super Mario 3D Land is the first new game produced for the 3DS that justifies the cost of the console all on its own. It really is that good.Moreover, it's perplexing that Super Mario 3D Land wasn't a launch title for its platform, because not only is it a great game, it makes the console's 3D visuals integral to the gameplay.In certain sections of the game – a top-down level involving platforms floating in the sky, for example, or some bonus levels which plonk barriers in the player's path – the 3D display becomes absolutely vital to the player's progress.The 3D visuals are used as more than just a neat gimmick, and instead become an organic part of the overall experience. In this game, players will find their progress becomes more difficult and frustrating unless they play it in 3D.The game's appeal is bolstered further by the quality of its design. Granted, this is a Mario game and players know what to expect to a degree – ghost houses, music blocks, coins, mushroom power-ups and flagpoles at the end of every level – but while the levels themselves take more than one or two cues from earlier games, they are bursting with new ideas.They're also constructed in such a way that allows them to be enjoyed in bite-sized gaming chunks. This is a game that is designed with your working week commute in mind; every level – at least, initially– is easy to beat, provided you're not the sort of player who is obsessed with collecting everything on their first play-through.The power-ups in the game are mixture of new and old. The Fire Flower and Tanooki Suit return, with the latter of offering the player a degree of control over their jump airtime that comes in very handy in certain stages. There's the Propeller Box, a new riff on the Propeller Mushroom from New Super Mario Bros, which allows players to execute huge vertical leaps and slow their descent.The Boomerang Mushroom is a new power-up that gifts Mario a never-ending supply of boomerangs, which the player can use to take out foes and collect coins.The power-ups feel incredibly balanced throughout the game. Rather than give the player an endless list of options, Nintendo has chosen here to limit the number of power-ups available, but make them all the more valuable to the player in terms of their level progression.The difficulty level in the game accommodates all levels of players – up to a point. Mario veterans will blaze through the first six worlds with relative ease before mistakes start costing them lives.Once they've completed all eight worlds, a further eight are unlocked – which are essentially re-jigged versions of the original eight, with the difficulty level ramped up considerably.This is the content that ensures longevity with the hardcore. The extra levels are fiendishly challenging, and most of them are speed-run time trials that box the player into an intense, nail-shredding gaming experience.Perhaps the most impressive aspect of Super Mario 3D Land is how the game makes use of all of the Nintendo 3DS's capabilities as a console, without the sense that any of its aspects feel tacked on or shoe-horned into the proceedings for the sake of it.The thumbstick and face buttons offer a great degree of precision and the 3D visuals – as has been mentioned – are a key part of the gameplay. The gyroscope comes into play during instances where the player uses binoculars in the game to spy Toad in the distance – who, upon being discovered, will toss out a star coin or power-up. Streetpass rounds out the package, offering players gift boxes containing extra power-ups and coins.All of it is shot through with the Mario series' trademark adorable charm which, if anything, makes the game easier to like. Not that it needs it; Super Mario 3D Land is one of the best Mario games in recent years and easily the best new game for the 3DS platform.In the current era of handheld casual gaming, it deserves to be a hit. Not only does it offer an engrossing and challenging experience, it's perfect for gaming on the go.The meticulous craft that has gone into its ingenious design is enough to warrant admiration from even those players who have no time for the portly plumber. As for the rest of you – and we're assuming you're Mario fans – you're in for a real treat.• Game reviewed on 3DS
The Week UKDennis Publishing's popular weekly magazine The Week now has an iPad app, which redesigns the print edition for the tablet, but keeps the core articles summarising and analysing the last week's news. A Rolex sponsorship deal means it'll be free for the first few weeks, before subscriptions kick in.iPadThe World in 2012 from The Economist: Editor's HighlightsThe Economist's latest iPad app is a free download, offering selected articles from its The World in 2012 publication, predicting key trends and personalities for the year ahead.iPadTripAdvisor City GuidesTravel site TripAdvisor has a new iPhone app promising offline access to information on restaurants, hotels, tourist hotspots and other places, complete with reviews from the site's community. Nine North American cities are covered, as well as seven in Europe, three in Asia and Sydney in Australia. Update: as a commenter has pointed out, the city guides are available individually on Android.iPhoneSnoopy's Street FairGames publisher Capcom had a huge (if controversial) hit with its Smurfs' Village social iOS game, with the controversy coming when some kids filled their boots with virtual SmurfBerries at their parents' expense. Capcom will be hoping for less headlines with its latest freemium game, based on the Peanuts cartoons. It's all about raising money for Charlie Brown's baseball team by running a street fair.iPhone / iPadReal Madrid Talking PlayersOutfit7's Talking Friends apps have been a big success with their squeaky-voiced animals repeating whatever users say into their iPhone mic. Now the idea comes to football, with an official Real Madrid app that turns Cristiano Ronaldo, Sergio Ramos and co into peers of Talking Tom Cat.iPhoneReader for TwitterAndroid app Reader for Twitter does what it says on the tin: reads tweets out using text-to-speech technology, while also enabling the user to post themselves by talking into their phone's mic. A gimmick? Not for people who are blind or visually impaired and want to use Twitter.AndroidDisney Princess: A Royal ChristmasDisney is getting in early with its festive book-app for iOS. It shows the Christmas celebrations of characters including Cinderella, Ariel and Tiana across three stories, with interactive features including an ornament hunt and tree decorating section.iPhone / iPadTinga Tinga TalesCBeebies cartoon Tinga Tinga Tales has been turned into an iOS app by P2 Games, with nine mini-games and varying difficulty levels to ensure 3-6 year-olds can play at their own pace.iPhone / iPadVscreensVscreens is the work of Sony Ericsson, and is described as a "photo sharing beta". It aims to make it easier for people to show off their photos on bigger screens: computer monitors and TVs. It works using a mixture of browser access on the big screen, and scannable QR codes.AndroidChumkeeChumkee is a new social app for iPhone that places an emphasis on posting photos and videos, while also responding to those of other users with similar content. Instagram meets Twitter meets Socialcam, possibly – with a nifty interface wrapped around it.iPhoneNFL Flick QuarterbackFull Fat's officially licensed American Football game has made its debut on Android, alongside the iOS version we covered on 18 November. Impressive graphics are blended with simple controls for a casual classic.Android(spotted byAndroid Police)Covert BrowserCovert Browser uses the Tor Network to let iOS users surf with "real anonymity and privacy", choosing from more than 600 IP addresses in 100 countries, safe in the knowledge that their connection will be routed through three different servers before reaching a destination website. And yes, Apple has approved it.iPhone / iPadAutodesk Imagine, Design, CreateAutodesk's new iPad app is a book-app offering 20 design case studies, from 3D film Avatar and game Splinter Cell: Conviction through to the Cathedral of Christ the Light in Oakland. Video interviews, infographics and images complement the text.iPadThe Game of LifeEA has ported its digital version of the popular board game The Game of Life to Android, with up to four players able to compete on one device by passing and playing.AndroidBag It!Bagging supermarket shopping might not sound like gaming nirvana, but Hidden Variable Studios' game is being hotly tipped as a casual hit for iOS and Android, with several modes and some colourful characters.iPhone / Android / iPadBeautiful Clock Radio Spotify CoreThis app works as an alarm clock for iPad, with the option to wake up to music from internet radio stations, your own collection or – if you're a premium subscriber – from streaming music service Spotify.iPadWe Love Tracy BeakerChildren's character Tracy Beaker gets her first official iOS app, courtesy of P2 Games. It's part planner, calendar and address book, and part mini-game collection with seven to try including a trivia quiz and word search.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamI deleted my Facebook account &gt;&gt; Dave WinerDave Winer doesn't like being unable to log out: "Bottom-line: I know from experience that it's bad to depend on a for-profit company to give me a free service that is supposed to not feel like it's free. Facebook makes it difficult or impossible to maintain an archive copy of the stuff you post there, so, knowing this, I never posted anything there that wasn't a copy of something I posted elsewhere or something I just didn't care about. And I hate the idea that they devise ever-more-sneaky ways of tracking you on the web. And I'm not one of the people who uses the word "hate" when I mean "mildly dislike." "But I'm not ruling out never going back. It's possible they'll add a feature that I feel I have to check out. Or they may relax their data export and import policies. Or there might be a law passed that everyone must have a Facebook account. All of these would be reasons why I might create a new account after my account is deleted, two weeks from yesterday, on November 23."The Facebook Freaky Line &gt;&gt; Scobleizer..and on the pro side, Robert Scoble, who argues that the 'freaky line' is what Facebook is pushing... and people are acquiescing: "I listen to Spotify a lot in the car. I'm not even in a good place to tell you anything about the music I'm listening to. I wish I had 30 seconds to hit next before you were told I was listening to it. "Same thing with the Washington Post. Just because I clicked on a link it goes out to all of you. Very viral, and very good for software developers but it will quickly devolve into noise. Facebook always does this with its platforms (starts noisy, then moves the freaky line back as users get pissed off at the noise showing up on their screens). "This is Zuckerberg's brilliance. Other companies just aren't willing to even try to move the freaky line forward in order to build a new media company."Tech City Map: mapping who's where in LondonAnalytics and coding by Trampolie Systems. Well done, people. This is what we'd have liked to do if we had the programming chops.Siri (product): Why is Siri important? &gt;&gt; QuoraVery long answers from people who are deep in the field. There is a suspicion that Siri is just the thin end of a huge, huge wedge.Greater choice for wireless access point owners &gt;&gt; Official Google Blog"The wireless access point information we use in our location database, the Google Location Server, doesn't identify people. But as first mentioned in September, we can do more to address privacy concerns. "We're introducing a method that lets you opt out of having your wireless access point included in the Google Location Server. To opt out, visit your access point's settings and change the wireless network name (or SSID) so that it ends with "_nomap." For example, if your SSID is "Network," you'd need to change it to 'Network_nomap.'" Now it's *your* fault if Google maps your Wi-Fi. Or something.iPad tops holiday wish list for kids &gt;&gt; TUAWYeah, well you can wish for an iPad, iPhone or iPod Touch, but guess what dad found in the bargain bin at Staples? That's right kids, we're getting a PlayBook! (Thanks @kingmaker for the link.)The movement to rid the world of HTML purism &gt;&gt; Occupy HTML"Flash is mature. It's supported by all major desktop browsers. It's stable when used properly. If not, it crashes a lot, just like every other technology. It requires constant security updates, just like every other web technology. It doesn't work well on most mobile devices, and for good reasons. It's a content plugin, developed during the era of closed standards and unilateral corporate control of web technology." So where are you pitching your tent? (Thanks to @EMComments for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Oh lovely, it's Monday morning. Get a cup of tea then let us know what you played this weekend.
The man sits down in front of the computer and says, affably: "Computer!"Nothing happens. In a now-hear-this tone, the man repeats: "Computer?" Still nothing happens. Puzzled, he picks up the mouse and speaks into it: "Hello, computer?"Beside him, the impatient owner says: "Just use the keyboard." The first man replies, "A keyboard?" Then, slightly annoyed: "How quaint."The scenecomes from the 1986 film Star Trek IV, where Scotty, the engineer, and the rest of the crew have flown back in time from the 23rd  century; Scotty needs to get some work done on the computer, and, of course, in the 23rd century they all work by voice command, unlike those 1980s throwbacks. Ha, ha.Yet if the crew were to land 25 years later, in the present day, Scotty would still be just as puzzled at the computer's lack of responsiveness – unless, that is, he picked up one of the latest breed of smartphones, where being able to respond to the human voice has become the new frontier in interaction.Since October, people have been buying and using Apple's new iPhone 4S, which comes with a function called Siri – a "voice-driven assistant" which can take dictation, fix or cancel appointments, send emails, start phone calls, search the web and generally do all those things for which you might once have employed a secretary.Siri isn't just a "voice recognition" tool, though it can do that (so you speak some words and it turns them into text, and sends them as an email or text message). You can also ask it things such as: "How's the weather looking tomorrow in London?" and it will come back with the forecast for London ("England"). It'll do currency conversions or give stock prices. Or try asking it: "Why is the sky blue?" and, after a little thinking, the screen will show an explanation: "The sky's blue colour is a result of the effect of Rayleigh scattering." (There is more, but we all know about Lord Rayleigh's work on molecular refraction in the troposphere, don't we?)Lots of people think Siri isn't anything new. We've had voice-dialling on our phones for ages (where you say a name to the phone, link that to a phone number, and when you say it again it dials it). Google already offers a voice-driven web search app, which it backed with a big poster campaign around London earlier this year, with phonetic spellings of searches you might want to do - "pih-ka-di-lee  sur-khus" or "tak-see num-buhz".But experts say that Siri – and what it represents – might be as subtly revolutionary as the iPhone's multi-touch screen was when unveiled in January 2007. That's because Siri isn't just "voice dialling" or "voice recognition" (which tries to turn speech into its text equivalent); it's "natural language understanding" – NLU, in the lingo.I've been testing an iPhone 4S, and found lots of uses for Siri: for doing currency and other conversions (sq ft in sq m, anyone?) or finding companies' stock values and market valuations (useful in stories) when a web search would distract from writing, and – in dodgier parts of town – to play songs or playlists (instructed via the headset microphone) without taking the phone out of my pocket. Better to be thought a bit strange than have the phone nicked.Siri grew out of a huge project inside the Pentagon'sDefense Advanced  Research Projects Agency(Darpa), those people who previously gave you the internet and, more recently,a schemeto encourage people to develop driverless cars. Siri's parent project, calledCalo(Cognitive Assistant that Learns and Organizes) had $200m of funding and was the US's largest-ever artificial intelligence project. In 2007 it was spun out into a separate business; Apple quietly acquired it in 2010, and incorporated it into its new phone.When you ask or instruct Siri to do something, it first sends a little audio file of what you said over the air to some Apple servers, which use a voice recognition system from a company called Nuance to turn the speech – in a number of languages and dialects – into text. A huge set of Siri servers then processes that to try to work out what your words actually mean. That's the crucial NLU part, which nobody else yet does on a phone.Then an instruction goes back to the phone, telling it to play a song, or do a search (using the data search engine Wolfram Alpha, rather than Google), or compose an email, or a text, or set a reminder (possibly linked to geography – the instruction, "Remind me to call mum when I get home," will work), or –boring! – call a number.NLU has been one of the big unsolved computing problems (along with image recognition and "intelligent" machines) for years now, but we're finally reaching a point where machines are powerful enough to understand what we're telling them. The challenge about NLU is that, first, speech-to-text transcription can be tricky (did he just say, "This computer can wreck a nice beach," or "This computer can recognise speech"?); and second, acting on what has been said demands understanding both of the context and the wider meaning.The demonstration that computers have cracked this – just as their relentless improvement cracked draughts and then chess – came in February this year, whenIBM's Watsonsystem competed in the American game show Jeopardy!, where the quizmaster provides a sort-of answer, and you have to come up with the question. (For example: "Originally called What's the Question, it got its name when a producer at testing said it needed more jeopardies.")Except Watson didn't compete against just anyone. It was ranged against two humans who between them had scores of wins, and won millions of dollars in prize money from the game. They battled it out over "answers" such as "William Wilkinson's An Account of the Principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia inspired this author's most famous novel." Yes, of course – Bram Stoker. Watson, and the humans, answered correctly, but Watson had more points, and won. Watson wasn't competing on absolutely level terms; it was fed the questions as text at the same time as they were read to the other two players. Still, its victory led to plenty of tweeting from people welcoming our new robotic overlords. And it wasn't even connected to the internet; it just relied on a huge database of information stored on its system."While competing at Jeopardy! is not the end-goal," its IBM engineers noted drily, "it is a milestone in demonstrating a capability that no computer today exhibits – the ability to interact with humans in human terms over broad domains of knowledge." And, of course, in understanding what people mean when they say something.Having gained that glory, Watson has been shunted off to work on healthcare problems – with the addition of Nuance's speech-to-text technology. You can imagine it popping up on some future episode of House, solving some gnarly medical conundrum (and perhaps banjaxing the series'  reason for existing).But much more interaction like Watson's is likely because of the growing availability of "cloud computing", where huge amounts of processing power is available ad hoc over the  internet. Amazon, for instance, now adds almost as muchcomputing power per dayto its cloud computing systems as it used to need for all its site in 2000. Other companies are doing the same.That means NLU is starting to seep into our daily lives: we've grown used to computers getting better at understanding us in limited contexts – where you phone an automated system and can pay bills just by reading out your payment card number, or use booking systems that don't have humans. Now, it's spreading wider, being used for "semantic analysis" of Facebook and Twitter postings by companies eager to figure out whether people are saying positive or negative things about them online. Feed in the text, and the computer figures out whether people are happy or annoyed with you. It could even work on your car: no more  fiddling with the dashboard."The key thing is NLU – understanding what you mean and what you want," says Neil Grant of Nuance. "Historically, cars have voice elements but historically you had to learn a huge long list of commands. As NLU progresses, you can say what you want in a way that's natural to you."Norman Winarsky, who coordinated the funding for the Siri company, says it is "real AI [artificial intelligence] with real market use", adding that "Apple will enable millions of people to interact with machines with natural language. [Siri] will get things done and this is only the tip of the iceberg. We're talking another technology revolution. A new computing paradigm shift."Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones analyst for the research company IDC, is less sure: "We've had voice recognition on phones for a few years, but it never really took off. There are two reasons for that: there was no brand or company that really pushed it the way that Apple is doing. And there's no other company with a brand like  Apple. It was only when Apple launched the new iPhone with Siri that I tried voice search on my Android phone – I'd never tried it before." Sounding a little surprised, he adds: "It worked really well."In fact, what's happening now with NLU – which is spreading far beyond just the iPhone – could just be the beginning of a revolution in how we use computers (particularly smartphones) as big as that which came with the iPhone in 2007, when suddenly multi-touch screens (where you can do more than just prod the screen) were de rigueur. It's taken almost five years, but now multi-touch screens are everywhere: hundreds of millions of touch screen phones and tablets have been sold, and even the next version of Microsoft's Windows – due in about 12 months' time – will offer swooshy touch-screen operation.Horace Dediu, who runs the consultancy Asymco, having formerly worked for the mobile phone maker Nokia, thinks the time is ripe for a new way of interacting with our computers. He points to how Apple drove changes in interaction before: the mouse and  windows in 1985, the iPod's click wheel in 2001, multi-touch in 2007. And he also points out that Siri has some  interesting similarities with what people thought about the original iPhone touch screen: "It's not good enough; there are many smart people who are disappointed by it; competitors are  dismissive; it does not need a  traditional, expensive smartphone to run, but it uses a combination of local and cloud computing to solve the user's problem."Certainly there's been no shortage of people who say that Siri (which Apple meticulously points out is a "beta", or unfinished product) "isn't good enough" because it can't yet deal with every accent, or every possible query. They also say that the whole idea of asking a disembodied computer questions is ridiculous: "You won't catch me saying things into a phone" is typical of the sort of reaction. (An online poll at the websiteArs Technicafound 36% saying "you won't catch me talking at a machine in public".) Which is odd when you think about it, since phones are designed for talking into, and nobody seems to get embarrassed about announcing that they're on the train to a carriageful of people, or reading their credit card details out loudly and slowly for all to note. Perhaps there's an element of self-consciousness: we're more concerned with our own feelings about asking questions of a machine than anyone else's about hearing them.The thing about NLU is people have been expecting it to happen for ages. In 1996 I watched Bill Gates announce that by 2011 we would have computers that could recognise their owners' faces and voices. That's this year! And he's right – if you count smartphones as computers which they are, really – about as powerful as the laptop computers of 2001. The newest Android phones can be unlocked by showing them your face. And the voice thing – well, we're working on it.Not that things are perfect now  either: Siri's servers have already  had a number of outages. At Nuance, Grant thinks that will be solved:  "Time will sort out the connection problems," he says.Even so, it's not clear whether in our offices we'll talk to our computers, Scotty-style. Apart from anything, the noise would be maddening. Wouldn't it? Then again, that's probably what people thought in the 19th century about introducing telephones to  offices. And we already have  offices where people spend the  whole time on the phone. We know them as call centres. Just hold on for a few years, Scotty. The computer will hear you soon.• This article was amended on Monday 21 November 2011. The original said that 1986 was 35 years ago, rather than 25.
Price£20,500MPG49.6Top speed117mphIt's the Saturday of Bonfire Night and I've spent the afternoon making the usual hash of my shopping duties. (Tell me, honestly, would you care if a chicken salad had no chicken in it?) Having to make a second bonus trip to Sainsbury's means I'm now late, stuck in traffic a mile from the muddy field where the rest of my family awaits, sparklers at the ready.In the back seat I have three giddy 10-year-old girls – my daughter Vita and her two chums Nadine and Holly. They've had great fun screaming, but are now a little subdued as they've realised we are going to miss the fireworks. As if on cue, there goes the first one up ahead, ohhh, and the next… Oh dear. But then, like the pyro storm brewing, a solution flashes deep in the black void of my mind. "Sit back, girls, and get ready for the display." I turn up the radio – it's not Wagner'sRide of the Valkyries, but Plan B will do – and then, tah dah, I&nbsp;press a button and the car's powered soft roof folds away in seconds. We sit back comfortably and gaze up at the embroidered heavens. The girls are soon screaming again…I've long been a fan of open-top driving at night. Crawling through London's polluted streets with the sun – and the gaze of prying pedestrians – bearing down on you has as much to recommend it as chicken-free salad. But when it's dark, you're wrapped in anonymity. Drop the roof and let the cool night air swoosh over you as you sweep along the city's illuminated boulevards. It's addictive stuff, and with heated seats there's no reason not to do it all through the winter.It's the simple thrill of wind in the hair, hands in the air motoring which has captivated us for generations.The car that's been giving me all this roofless pleasure is the Golf's new cabriolet. The original was squeezed out of the market by the rise of the coupé-cabriolet – the folding hard top that supposedly combined all the al-fresco benefits of a cabriolet with the comfort, security, safety and silence of a coupé. The rise of the CCs also gave engineers a chance to show off with their origami-like folding mechanisms, competing with each other to get their Heath Robinson contraptions to open in under 20 seconds.VW scrapped its much-loved Golf soft-top in 2002 – 23 years after it first appeared. Four years later it reappeared as the Eos – the soft folds of its fabric canopy solidified into a three-part tin roof. But the CCs aren't all they're claimed to be. Rear seats are cramped, boot space is compromised and the bulging rear end gives them a bad case of steatopygia (eh? It means "an accumulation of fat in and around the buttocks"). But for some the primitive allure of stretched fabric never quite faded away. BMW, Mercedes, Mazda, Ferrari and others kept the faith. And now VW has rejoined their ranks.So here, once again, is a brilliant cabriolet with proper space for four people. Its smooth lines are matched by its no-nonsense handling. It's not a&nbsp;sportscar, it's a family car. I drove the ecocentric 104bhp BlueMotion, which was thrifty and yet remarkably perky. It was as sensible as a car without a roof could be.When the fireworks ended, the traffic started to move and we headed home. Nadine had never been in a&nbsp;convertible before. "Why aren't all cars like this?" she mused. I started to answer, but the other two had already begun screaming again…Learning to share the roadMotorists hate cyclists, right? And cyclists hate motorists… But whencarbuzz.co.ukpublished an article titled "What drivers can do to be more cyclist aware" on their blog. Little did they know the floods of impassioned responses they'd begin to receive would be from cyclists and drivers alike. Cyclists seemed to be shocked that this sensible advice was actually posted on a car site, describing carbuzz's views as "stunningly positive". One user tweeted: "Think this article is brilliant! It should be reposted, retweeted everywhere. It's the first thing I've read that treats both cyclists and drivers as equal road users. Bravo!"Communitybybike.comwas one of the numerous sites that blogged about it, titling the post "A car site talks sense about cyclists. We've infiltrated the beast!", stating that carbuzz "momentarily lost command of their senses" and published the article.Bikebiz.comwrote a piece titled "Car website becomes viral hit with cyclists", mentioning how carbuzz rejects the ''them and us mentality".So maybe there is hope for more co-operation on our crowded streets after all. The main points of the message were that drivers need to:Learn to shareNobody owns the road. A bicycle is a vehicle by lawAppreciate that cyclists are helping youCyclists have the One Less Car slogan. They actually reduce congestionAvoid dooring cyclistsIt's illegal and can be fatalRealise cyclists are vulnerableIn any impact, cyclists are the losers. Most other European countries operate "strict liability" regulationsHelmets don't equal guaranteed safetyA cyclist with a helmet is by no means invincible – helmets are designed to withstand impacts of less than 13mphExercise some caution and be patientIt's your responsibility to avoid hitting the cyclist, not theirs to avoid being hitAllow plenty of spaceWhen overtaking, cyclists must be given as much room as you would a carDrive slowly on low-vis roadsYou don't know what's around the corner, or over that hillCyclists have a right to claim the laneIt's the safest way to cycle – they're trying to avoid an accidentBeware a left turnThis is how most accidents occur – know your blind spotsGet on a bike!The only way you'll empathise with them and realise how careless drivers can beCarbuzz, by the way, is worth a look if you are hunting down a new car. Every vehicle has an impartial summary based on aggregated expert reviews and user reviews, and there is a search tool that will help you narrow your search.And finally: the best movie motorbike monmentsGreatest motorbike scene in movie? There's only really one, isn't there? Steve McQueen's iconic chase scene inThe Great Escape. But who would you put in at number two and three? A recent poll byBennetts, the bike insurance specialist, found that Tom Cruise inTop Gunis still taking our breath away 25 years on. But in third place, and beating the likes of Bond and Batman, is none other than Wallace and Gromit with their motorbike and sidecar antics inA Close Shave. Also flying the sidecar flag isHarry Potter's gamekeeper Hagrid, who joins previous winner,Tomb Rader's Lara Croft in fourth place. Completing the top six isBatmanstar Christian Bale inThe Dark Knight. With cartoons capers and wizards battling for poll position, it's great to see that die-hard bikers clearly don't take themselves as seriously as the rest of us think.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
This article is the subject of a legal complaint made on behalf of Mr Sgt Steven Worthington.When is it permissible for men to claim publicly that a respectable woman from an ethnic minority is an immigrant prostitute?According to DS Steve Worthington, of London's Paddington Green police station, any time is a good time, especially if the accusations are expressed in the kind of knockabout vernacular favoured by poisonous mobs. Lots of us have Twitter accounts nowadays, and there is nothing better than a bit of racist misogyny to liven up those dull in-between moments, is there?Disturbing as it may sound, these were the conclusions I drew after reporting a hate crime to Scotland Yard this month. I had received a few abusive tweets too many on the social networking site, and decided to do something about them: not because I am a spoilsport or humourless, but because I object to family and friends reading comments about me which are not just wicked, but against the law.My complaint – which I'll outline shortly – appeared a certainty for a swift investigation and prosecution. In the past few weeks alone, no fewer than three Premier League footballers have instigated police action against offensive tweets. Sunderland striker Fraizer Campbell was called a "big fucking nigger". The n-word was also aimed at Newcastle forward Sammy Ameobi.Commendably, Northumbria police investigated immediately, even though the tweeters were using "anonymous" accounts (the holders did not use their real names). Two 17-year-olds have been arrested in connection with the Ameobi case and now face prosecution. Both were traced relatively easily through their internet service provider.Proving that London forces are as concerned for the welfare of 6ft-plus multi-millionaire footballers as those in the north-east, detectives traced a tweeter who called Queens Park Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand a "fucking black cunt". This, of course, was linked to a high-profile case in which England captain John Terry is accused of abusing Ferdinand in person. Nothing like a couple of household-name sportsmen to get the Met agitated, is there?I am by no means a celebrity, or even vaguely well-known, though do appear on TV occasionally as a journalist specialising in Anglo-French affairs, Islam and the Arab world. I am in my early 30s, from a cosmopolitan background, and well educated enough to hold well-informed views on a number of contentious issues. In short, I am just the kind of woman who becomes an immediate hate figure to a particularly vindictive type of male internet warrior.When I first started receiving critical messages from people – via email, underneath my articles on the internet, or on sites like Twitter – I replied. The democratisation of the global media has created a hugely dynamic debating forum, and the majority of those participating are as courteous as they are articulate. I grew up on a council estate renowned for its lawlessness and have reported from war zones. I know exactly how to stand up for myself in fraught situations and will debate anything with anyone.But when a "whore" hashtag (the device used to signal a discussion on Twitter) appeared against my name, everything changed. What distinguished the two men using the word (and its variations) was not that they wanted an argument, but that they wanted to attack me  as viciously as possible. They spiced up their principal insult with as many sexual allusions as they could fit into the 140 characters that Twitter allows.The senders were not difficult to track down. One has delivered more than 2,000 tweets to date and is linked to a London university. The other is a Conservative party activist from the home counties. He has only 68 followers after sending more than 4,000 tweets, but that is not the point. Both men are conventionally "respectable", but consider it permissible to fabricate obscene claims about women they have never met, and to re-tweet them to as many of Twitter's 200 million users as possible.I recognised the style and content of the tweets as being similar to posts about me that had been flagged up to moderators on other sites. The language was clumsy, and often pompous, but underpinned by extreme personal loathing. Their lies were not only sent directly to those closest to me, but also to my employers.These men are Brave In Cyberspace, or BIC, as I now refer to them. Their world view – formed as it is in front of a computer screen rather than by interaction with real people – is dogmatic and extreme. I doubt my tormentors have ever met, but they post self-congratulatory guffaws and exclamations as they praise each other's writing. They are self-styled masters in inciting hatred or worse against allegedly inferior types, especially women from foreign backgrounds. They are as persistent and menacing as any kind of stalker.Not that the Met cares. When a colleague first called the Yard on my behalf, he was told that stations in London were "very busy with tourists" but that someone would get back to him within 48 hours. When making his first reminder phone call, three days later, he learned that police officers now routinely use the expression "if you carry on, I am going to terminate this call", especially to those expressing anxiety that a crime has been committed.After numerous false starts, police arranged for me to visit Paddington Green, where I met station officer Tony Beach. He was polite but largely dismissive, admitting that he did "not really understand Twitter". This seemed odd, considering that almost every force in Britain now uses it as a crime-fighting and public information tool. He did not take a single note, and told me that he would "discuss the matter with a senior officer to see if it was worth pursuing" and get back to me.This was where DS Worthington came in. Five days later he called and curtly told me that the case was being dropped before anyone had even begun investigating. Not only did he consider that calling a woman a whore might not constitute a criminal offence (speculation I found particularly disgraceful, especially as he seemed to have formulated it in around 30 seconds), but that it would "take weeks" and "mounds of bureaucracy" to deal with the matter.He pointed to the possibility of the posters saying they had not sent the tweets in the first place and had been hacked (such a defence is absurd, as the men have to date made no effort to remove the criminal tweets, and are clearly posting as themselves).In short, Worthington did not believe that the 1988 Malicious Communications Act covers relative unknowns like me. The legislation, which makes it an offence to send any material likely to cause stress and anxiety, can earn offenders a six-month prison sentence. Worthington thought there would be too much work involved, and that the criminals might lie to try to get out of trouble.When I suggested that all of the above was part and parcel of crime detection, and that his colleagues would undoubtedly have taken action if I was playing for QPR, Worthington adopted an ominously officious tone: "I know all about the footballers. You are challenging my authority."I was doing anything but. I know lots of people – and not just women working in the media – who are abused daily on the internet. Both the technology and legislation are there for these so-called trolls to be found and punished.If the police started to deal with this increasingly unpleasant problem quickly and fairly, it could be stigmatised in the way that abusive phone calls have been.Instead, my exchange with Worthington made it clear that his force's view of internet hate crimes extends solely to famous people. If prosecutions supporting much-vaunted anti-racism initiatives attract politically correct headlines, so much the better. Ordinary people, meanwhile, are ignored."If you carry on, I'm going to terminate this call," said Worthington, as I tried to discuss all this with him. He duly hung up on me, bringing my complaint to an abrupt halt.Worthington's message was clear and unambiguous. If you are racially abused or suffer similar attacks on a social networking site, and think that you might be entitled to some Premier League justice, just remember this about the police: they won't give a tweet.
Physics hasNewton's first law("Every body persists in its state of being at rest or of moving uniformly straight forward, except insofar as it is compelled to change its state by force impressed"). The equivalent for internet services is simpler, though just as general in its applicability: it says that there is no such thing as a free lunch.The strange thing is that most users of Google, Facebook, Twitter and other "free" services seem to be only dimly aware of this law. Facebook, for example, handles the pages of 750 million users, enables more than half of that number to visit and update their pages every day and hosts more than 70 billion photographs. The cost of the computing and communications resources – in terms of server farms, energy, bandwidth and technical expertise – required to make this happen doesn't bear thinking about. And my guess is that most Facebookers don't think about it.But it costs money – millions of dollars a month, every month. The monthly amount is called the "burn rate". It comes from investors who make their cash available for burning in the hope that it will eventually pay off in terms of a stock market flotation or the evolution of a profitable business whose shares will be worth holding. In the internet era, the favoured strategy has been to "get big fast" (the title of afamous book about Amazon– that is, add users/subscribers at an exponential rate, and then find a way of monetising the resulting hordes.It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that the best way to get big fast is to offer your services for free. Which is exactly what Google, Facebook and Twitter did. But then came the awkward question: how to turn all those free-riders into revenue? The only answer anyone has come up with so far is – surprise, surprise – advertising. How well has it worked? To date the answers are: for Google, spectacularly; for Facebook, moderately; and for Twitter, not at all – yet.Google's success stems from the fact that it can use web searches to target ads at its users: if an ad pops up that is relevant to something you've been searching for then you are more likely to pay attention to it. Facebook's unique selling proposition to advertisers is that it knows the real-life identity of its users (and of their friends), so in principle it can target ads that are customised for every individual user.And Twitter…? We'll come to that in a moment. For now the thing to note is that the business model of all these free services involves exploiting what they know about you. Or, to put it more crudely, if you use "free" services then what you have to accept is thatyou(or, more precisely, your identity) are their product.The penny drops for most suckers, er, users when it occurs to them that the service is, somehow, becoming more intrusive – whether through abrupt changes in default privacy settings, or sudden changes in the way their update and news feeds are reconfigured. What started as a lovely, simple, clean interface suddenly starts to look very cluttered and, well, manipulative.If you're a Facebook or a Google+ user you'll have noticed this trend. But Twitter still seems immune to it. In fact, it hasn't really changed much since its inception: it retains its clean and intuitive interface. That isn't because the guys who own Twitter are nicer human beings than Zuckerberg &amp; co: it's just that they haven't yet been able to figure out a way ofmonetising their vast hordesof users. And they face the same dilemma: the moment they adopt the techniques needed to exploit their users, many of those users will realise that intrusiveness is the price one pays for a "free" service.It doesn't have to be like this, of course. It just needs a different business model in which users pay modest fees for online services. Take, for example, something such as pobox.com, which I've used to manage my email for many years. It's not free, but at $35 a year, it's not unduly expensive either. It enables me to redirect incoming mail to any number of devices and services – and provides really impressive spam-blocking on the side. It's always had a neat, simple user-interface that has changed only incrementally over the years, and most of the changes have been marginal improvements over what went before.The most significant thing about pobox.com, however, is that it's non-intrusive, for one simple reason: its business model does not depend on exploiting my identity for advertising purposes. It obeys the first law of internet services. There is no such thing as a free lunch.
Games are increasingly concerned with social interactions – whether that means simple multiplayer options or the means to tweet successes automatically. However,Minecraft – Pocket Edition(Android Market, Android, £4.29, Mojang) revels in its role as solitary sandpit. A pared-down version of the indie PC hit,Pocket Editionoffers the Creative mode from the main game, where you are provided with a random expanse of land upon which to erect your chosen structures. Putting together architectural masterpieces with different blocks of stone, wood and other materials is instantly enjoyable, even if it lacks any specific goal beyond the aesthetic. The controls could do with improvement, with the virtual D-pad not responsive enough – but this is a refreshingly entertaining game and one of the few that hasn't yet made it on to Apple's ubiquitous handset.In contrast,Greed Corp HD(App Store, iPad, £2.99, Vanguard) is more concerned with destruction than construction. In a futuristic world where resources are scarce, four factions battle in this turn-based strategy game. The aim is to occupy hexagonal land masses with robotic slaves, harvesters to mine for gold and walkers to attack the opposition. The twist is that the ground beneath you erodes as it is harvested or attacked, eventually crumbling to nothing and sending minions into the ether. Originally an Xbox Live release, it suits the touch controls and while the single player is engrossing, and online multiplayer fun, it shines with four friends playing pass the iPad and rejoicing as foes plummet to their doom.
So how much do you like dragons? Your answer is likely to determine how you feel aboutSkyrim. Not that dragon-slaying is the game's sole activity – in fact there's an overwhelming array of things to do in Bethesda's meticulously modelled virtual continent, from plotting political coups to stewing venison. In previousElder Scrollstitles, the price paid for this freedom was some rather homely visuals and a slew of glitches. Here, while the bugs are still in evidence, the graphics are often beautiful, increasing the immersion factor considerably – stalking the foothills at dusk amid flurrying snow, it is hard to suppress a shiver.Those with a low Tolkien tolerance may find all the cod-Anglo-Saxon lore a drag and combat is gratingly clumsy, especially by comparison with the similarly dragon-heavyDark Souls. But for sheer ambition and scope,Skyrimis unparalleled.
I'll keep this simple. If you own a Wii, then buy this game. If you have ever enjoyed a Zelda adventure, buy this game. And do so even if 25 years of not-entirely-dissimilar titles, an obstinate refusal to get over your personal favourite and an aversion to motion control questing have left you slightly wary. Why? BecauseSkyward Swordis probably the finest game ever to appear on the Wii and is definitely the best motion control game on any platform.Zelda games have always been variations on a theme. You know before&nbsp;you start that there will be dungeons, a Sword of Destiny and a variety of other items that you will need to rescue the abduction-prone Princess Zelda. This time, a young Link is a trainee&nbsp;Sky Knight on a mystical island&nbsp;floating above the clouds. He has&nbsp;two soulmates: Zelda (naturally), who this time around actually receives  a fair bit of screen time before the inevitable happens, and a gigantic bird called a Loftwing that swoops to gather him whenever he takes a running jump off the edge of his airborne world.The gut-wrenching sensation this leap of faith produces every single time you do it underlines what  is so good aboutSkyward Sword:  it's a game you feel, not just a game you play. Thanks to a ground-up rebuild around Wii Motion Plus,  the control system is elegant,  intuitive and surprisingly precise, although you will need to close  your curtains to avoid embarrassment as you prance about, swinging your Master Wiimote. And watch your light fittings; it's not calledSkyward Swordfor nothing. The controls are  as organic in the air as they are on  the monster-ridden surface, where the bulk of the adventure takes  place, and with a long overdue  "quick travel system", you won't spend as much time merely travelling as in the past.Everything aboutSkyward Swordis like the best of the franchise made better (except, possibly, the graphics, which clearly test the Wii's processing&nbsp;power). The combat is tighter and harder, the story and characterisation are peerless, the music is symphonic and sumptuous, the dungeons are more puzzling and&nbsp;supremely well designed and the&nbsp;bosses are, frankly, boss… So is it the best Zelda ever? Very possibly.
Historical epic, metaphysical mystery, grand conspiracy – no one can accuse theAssassin's Creedgames of lacking scope or ambition. But three instalments later withAssassin's Creed: Revelations, there are clear signs of franchise fatigue setting in, with a storyline too dense and tangled to be comprehensible to first-time players. The core mechanic is still here; you can explore and sneak around an open-world historical city, go free-running across rooftops and stalk your targets and murder them – in ways both subtle and gratuitous. But this has been overlaid with pointless activities such as buying shops and businesses, hunting for treasure chests, training a motley crew of master assassins and kitting yourself out with the finest weapons, armour and equipment that your stolen loot can buy. With a host of new features and side-quests, the developers seem to be overcompensating for something. A lack of inspiration, perhaps?
The Legend Of Zelda: Skyward Sword, WiiA quarter of a century of the world's most finely honed puzzle-orientated adventuring has led to Skyward Sword, the final Wii incarnation of The Legend Of Zelda and an object lesson in making something huge, ornate and complex feel joyously inviting.As well as the usual procession of side quests and oddities dotted around Sky Loft, its floating island world above the clouds and the three themed lands beneath, you'll frequently need to dowse, pointing the Wii-remote at the screen to divine the location of lost people and items. Tilting vertically lifts your sword skyward to give it a magical charge, while the myriad swipes, slashes and lunges you need to perform are just physical enough to give the impression that you're responsible for them without actually necessitating any inadvertent exercise. It's a huge game which still manages  astonishing attention to detail, but the real beauty of Zelda is the grace with which it weaves its narrative, puzzles and quests into a seamless and enchanting whole.Nintendo, £34.90-£44.95Assassin's Creed: Revelations, PC, PS3 &amp; XboxAssassin's Creed: RevelationsAlthough Assassin's Creed is set in the future – a piece of sci-fi paraphernalia sends hero Desmond Miles back to a simulated Renaissance Europe – nearly all the action takes place in history. This time it's 16th-century Constantinople that's got the requisite rooftops with just enough flat area to run around and minarets with conveniently placed handholds. It's gorgeous to look at and has distractions to tempt you every few metres, with citizens in distress, hidden treasure chests, assassination missions, black marketeers, lost data fragments, officials to bribe and nobble, and buildings to renovate  (and that's quite apart from the main story and string of B-plots). The intensity never flags, making this a fitting conclusion to the story so far as well as a consolidation of mechanics that have been evolving over the series. Complete with a further enhanced multiplayer mode it's a superbly entertaining piece of Byzantine mayhem.Ubisoft, £34.99-£44.99Games newsSuper Mario 3D LandThe month before Christmas is a confusing and potentially poverty-inducing time to be a gamer, with alarming clusters of desirable titles released every week. The trend continues withHalo: Combat Evolved Anniversary(Xbox), a beautiful HD re-imagining of the original Halo with a few new touches, additional multiplayer maps, and a million Star Wars references;Super Mario 3D Land(3DS), which brings the kind of magic only made by Nintendo's mascot plumber, tipped effectively into 3D in a game made for people with short attention spans or on tedious bus journeys; andLEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7(PS3, PSP, Wii, DS, 3DS &amp; Xbox) which seems to have given up on all that Order Of The Phoenix stuff as its naming convention. Finally, there'suDraw: Instant Artist(PS3, Wii &amp; Xbox), with a plastic tablet and stylus to turn your TV into a virtual canvas and you into a virtual artist.  So there's the details; good luck deciding what to buy.
In the last chapter of her novelA Visit From The Goon Squad, Jennifer Egan imagines a dystopian near future in which toddlers in the year 2020 download music to their ubiquitous "kiddie handsets", which also feature "finger drawing, GPS systems for babies just learning to walk, PicMail". But if that's the future, it's already here.&nbsp;There are dozens of "finger painting" apps&nbsp;in the iTunes App Store, and child-tracking GPS devices have been available for years. A&nbsp;recent Financial Times story was headlined: "Companies target children's tablet aptitude."Earlier this year, AVG Technologies, a firm that makes antivirus computer software, conducteda surveyof mothers of children aged between two and five with internet access at home. They found that more of the children knew how to play a computer game than swim or ride a bike, and that more pre-schoolers knew how to use a&nbsp;smartphone than tie their shoelaces. Research by Plymouth council, meanwhile, found that 72% of children under five spend on average half an hour a day online. AVG's conclusions, unsurprisingly, boiled down to the message that it's never too early to protect your children from the dangers lurking on the internet. Those of us without a&nbsp;commercial interest at stake will probably have a more confused complex of reactions: surprise, anxiety, recognition, wonder, resignation. Small children and digital technology, in their very different ways, have a tendency to knock us slower-witted adults off our feet with amazement. Watch the viralYouTube filmof a gurgling baby happily navigating an iPad and then&nbsp;trying to "swipe" a magazine and you may start to feel a little obsolete yourself.On a bright Saturday morning in October, I went to a basement kitchen in London to observe six children, aged between two and six, testing two new iPad apps that are being developed by the publisher Nosy Crow. InAnimal SnApp, when you match up the top and bottom halves of a&nbsp;series of farmyard animals, you're rewarded with a story. But at least half the fun comes from making hybrids. Leni, who's six, and her sister Hester, four, look through the pictures together, Leni tapping the arrows at either side of the screen, Hester sweeping through them with a nonchalant flick of the finger. "Baa baa chicken have you any cows," Leni sings. They put the top half of a horse with the bottom half of a cow. "It&nbsp;has horse feet," Leni says. The adults – Camilla Reid, Nosy Crow's editorial director, and Deb Gaffin, the digital product and marketing director – peer in. Leni isn't wrong: cows have cloven hooves, and the illustration doesn't. The&nbsp;first lesson, when making apps for children, is don't think you can skimp on the details.When Eva, five, and her brother Frederick, three, arrive, Gaffin and Reid want the youngest&nbsp;two children to have a go with Bizzy Bear: Fun On The Farm, the first app to be developed from&nbsp;Benji Davis's series ofnovelty board books. Hester takes control, tapping the dog to make it bark, sliding the pigs up out of their pen and&nbsp;feeding them apples from a bucket. "When&nbsp;is&nbsp;it going to be empty?" she asks. "Why?"&nbsp;Gafffin asks. "Because then you can turn&nbsp;the page," Hester says. In a later scene, Bizzy&nbsp;Bear&nbsp;has&nbsp;to drive the tractor into its barn. "How do you get him out of the tractor and park&nbsp;it?" she asks. "You&nbsp;just hear it and hear it and hear it." Gaffin is taking notes: these are all&nbsp;problems to be ironed out.Then it's Frederick's turn. He's less adept, pressing the screen harder than he needs to while Hester gives him breathless instructions. "Touch that little house, Freddie. Lift up the... You have to get a pig first. Just press... Get the apple quick. No don't, drag. I think this is a bit tricky for Freddie."My daughter is not yet two, a few months younger than the youngest of Nosy Crow's quality control team, but since I got a smartphone, she has learned how to scroll through photographs and zoom in and out. Watching videos on it, she'll try to slide the picture around to see something offscreen. The first time she saw an iPad, she was taken with an app featuring a purple hippo that repeats everything you say to it and laughs when tickled, though she wanted to grab its head and seemed disappointed when her fingers bumped against the screen. The hippo wouldn't play with the ball that she threw to it, either. No doubt Apple are working on a virtual-reality glove to improve the tactile experience of iPad users – if so, will it come in toddler sizes?Apple wouldn't be drawn when I asked them if&nbsp;they'd had such young users in mind when they were developing the iPad, though it's not really surprising that toddlers should find it so easy to use: the interface is designed to be as simple, intuitive and unmediated as possible – you touch what you're interested in, which is a skill that no child needs to be taught. AsJonathan Freeman, a psychologist at Goldsmithswho studies the way people experience digital media, points out: "If you look at the history of the development of computers, mobile phones and video games, they're moving away from needing to be an expert. The [Nintendo] Wii made it possible to play games without knowing how to manipulate a game pad. With an iPad, a&nbsp;two-year-old or a 70-year-old can use it pretty much instantly for some basic tasks."Makers of accessories and software haven't been slow to cash in. For around £20 you can get a thick foam-rubber frame to protect your iPad from being played with too roughly, and the number of apps being developed for small children is ballooning. In March, the Guardian reported on the "key trends driving kids' apps forward in 2011". Top of the list was "remote parenting", with the example of Nursery Rhymes with StoryTime, developed by the Shoreditch-based design studioustwo™. Children can play around with interactive animations based on nursery rhymes while Mum or Dad, away on a&nbsp;business trip, can read Humpty Dumpty aloud from their iPhone thousands of miles away: heartwarming story of a family staying in touch or potent image of 21st-century alienation? Either way, the app has sold more than 20,000 copies. And the interactivity opens up possibilities for children to try things that would never occur to most adults, brought up on linear versions of the rhymes. During user-testing for Three Blind Mice, ustwo's Matt Miller says, "After chopping the tails off the mice, the kids [aged two to four] would instantly try to put them back on which, at that stage of development, wasn't an option. But after that we made sure it was."When Gaffin showed Nursery Rhymes with StoryTime to some of the Nosy Crow children, none of them tried to put the tails back on the mice. But they spent quite a long time trying to drag Jack and Jill's pail of water up and out of the&nbsp;well. Fish occasionally leapt out of it, but there didn't seem to be any way of getting it out&nbsp;of the well: once they'd pulled it to the top, it&nbsp;just&nbsp;clattered back down to the bottom. "I don't want this," Hester said eventually. "I&nbsp;want the&nbsp;funny monster" (meaning Grover from Sesame Street, apparently). She pressed the&nbsp;menu button&nbsp;to close the app.James Huggins, one of the creators ofThe Land Of Me, "an interactive world of creativity and learning for children aged two to six" published in association with Ladybird Books, makes a distinction between computer games and computer toys: games have rules and objectives; toys are whatever you make of them. But if the Nosy Crow children are anything to go by, the assumption is that if it's on a computer, it's a game. The concept of a computer toy is something many children and their carers still have to learn to get their heads around.The interactive element of a lot of software aimed at young children, Huggins says, is a&nbsp;"marketing afterthought", letting you "mess with the content" but not much more. The Land Of Me, however, is meant to encourage "communication, creativity and collaboration", and to do that it needs to be used by "adults and children playing together", so it was designed to "appeal to adults as well". Miller agrees: "Our&nbsp;aim was to capture the minds of the parents&nbsp;as well as excite the children," he says.And interestingly enough, though perhaps not&nbsp;surprisingly, it's really the parents you have&nbsp;to worry about when it comes to the potential dangers of playing with electronic toys. Michaela Wooldridge, a developmental psychologist in western Canada, has for many years worked in the field of early intervention, helping parents of developmentally delayed babies. She recently carried out astudyto see if the ways mothers interacted with their toddlers differed depending on whether they were playing with more traditional toys – a shape sorter, a book, a toy animal – or battery-powered equivalents. She found that with the electronic toys, "Parents were not less affectionate, but they were less responsive, less encouraging and&nbsp;did far less teaching. It was almost like the toy was interfering. They were trying to figure out a)&nbsp;how to make it work and b) how to have the child make it work."We may be dazzled and baffled by the hi-tech wizardry and newness of it all; our children take this stuff for granted. The latest technology is no newer to them than anything else they encounter. As Huggins says, "A banana and an iPad are two things that have always been there" – plus you can eat the banana; objects don't get much more interactive than that. According to Wooldridge, "Children under two and a half at least, but maybe even three, really don't understand screen two-dimensional formats very well." Experiments have shown that a&nbsp;two-year-old watching a video of his mother explaining to him how to find a hidden object will find it much harder to follow her instructions than if she's in the room with him. Huggins says that young children are "100% more awed" by the way a "paper castle builds out of nowhere" in&nbsp;a pop-up book than by anything they see, hear&nbsp;or touch on a computer screen.Bruno, two, sitting on his mother's lap to play with the Bizzy Bear app, taps a duck, which quacks and dips under water. He smiles. Unlike Frederick, he has an instinctively light touch; unlike Hester, he doesn't seem interested in trying to complete any tasks, but is happy to explore. Is this because he's young enough not to bring any preconceptions to it, or has he already learned how the technology works? Their father has an iPhone, the boys' mother says, so they know how to use it, but haven't often.There's no doubt that small children love pressing buttons, looking at bright flashing lights and listening to funny noises, partly for the same reasons that adults do – like rats, we can't help responding to sensory stimuli – but also preciselybecauseadults do. A child will see how rapt her parents are by a mobile phone or computer screen, and imitate their behaviour: these things are clearly interesting, because Mum and Dad can't keep away from them. A lot of the battery-operated toys available for children are imitations of adult toys: my daughter has a&nbsp;"phone" that rings and says the numbers one to four in two languages. It is entertaining enough, but it's not clear how well it fulfils either of its nominal worthier purposes: teaching her to count and letting her play at being on the phone. She will occasionally press it to the side of her head and say "hello" but then she'll also do that with remote controls. She doesn't need a "phone" to pretend she's on the phone."As you remove the reality," Huggins says, "they just make it up." Freeman says: "I'm always amused by how entertaining my two find playing creatively with cardboard boxes – still wins hands down over a few minutes with the iPhone." As for learning to count, as Wooldridge says, "Your child can push buttons all they want, but without your involvement they're not going to go beyond that."Software makers agree on the importance of parental involvement.John Siraj-Blatchford, honorary professor at the University of Swansea Centre for Child Research and head of the team of experts that advised the makers of The Land Of Me,argued in Nursery Worldlast year: "A child's computer time could be solitary, sedentary and of little educational value. Or it could be educationally rich, involving a group of children, for example, interacting together at the computer and encouraging off-screen activities..." Wooldridge's worry with smartphones and tablets is that "parents are putting on programs just so that the child can be distracted. It's no different from giving your child your cellphone while you're in line (another survey by Flamingofrom July this year found that 75% of mothers had handed their smartphones to their children); we used to give them our keys for the same purpose."Excessive computer use has been blamed for a decline in children's physical abilities over the past decade. Astudyat Essex University, published in Acta Paediatrica in May, found that 10-year-olds in 2008 could do fewer sit-ups, had weaker arms and hands, and fewer of them were able to hold their own weight hanging from a bar, than 10-year-olds in 1998. It's a sedentary activity, certainly, with all the downsides that implies, but the idea that sitting in front of a computer is straightforwardly solitary, too, is increasingly outdated. The rise of social media and video-calling software such as Skype means that ever more of the time that everyone, including or especially children, spends online is in the virtual company of other people – which brings us back to the image of parents reading nursery rhymes to their children from the other side of the world, and the question of whether technology is bringing us closer together or driving us further apart.When my parents and their granddaughter see&nbsp;each other on Skype, she seems more present to them than they do to her. This is partly because she's still working out how to make sense of seeing things on a screen, but it's also because, again, they're impressed by the technology and she isn't. Freeman makes a&nbsp;comparison with the movies: "An adult is more likely to be blown away by the magic of Avatar in 3D than a kid for whom it would be almost their baseline of what cinema is." Once upon a time, hearing someone's voice on the telephone probably gave&nbsp;as immediate a sense of their presence as seeing their face on Skype does now. Our expectations shift as the technology changes: like the Red Queen in Alice Through The Looking Glass, we're running to stand still.And the technology is changing incredibly fast: by the time my daughter is a teenager, let alone an adult, iPads will have gone the way of videotapes. Playing with an iPad won't be enough to teach her to deal with the technology she'll be faced with when she grows up. "You've got to learn how to learn first," Wooldridge says. "Then you can learn pretty well anything that comes along. If you only learn how this particular VCR or toy or computer program works, then you're going to be limited to that. The children that have had very rich experiences in the first three years are the ones that seem to be able to use all these things that are coming into their environments later on with more ease and with more meaning. They have to make meaning of the world around them in the three-dimensional aspect, in real time, before they can understand the world through the virtual."After an hour and a half of taking shifts on the iPad, the Nosy Crow children had all drifted away to play with the other attractions on offer: a toy stove ("Do you want pizza for tea?"), a huge pumpkin waiting for Halloween, the Bizzy Bear board books. Frederick was out in the garden with his mother.As I was about to leave, Reid mentioned that she'd recently found at her mother's house an oldGame &amp; Watch, one of the primitive handheld electronic games that Nintendo made in the 1980s, precursors to the Game Boy, Wii and, indirectly, smartphones everywhere. The craze swept primary schools across the country; I remember playing them endlessly on the school bus. Reid had hers with her. "Look," she said, putting it down on the table beside her iPhone. "They're almost exactly the same size."
My neighbour is&nbsp;upset. His company car is being changed. At&nbsp;the moment he&nbsp;has a redChrysler PT Cruiser– you know, one&nbsp;of those ridiculous retro things&nbsp;that thinks it's just come off the set ofRebel Without A Cause. Why would he be upset that it's being taken away from him? Well, it's distinctive, and he loves it. His&nbsp;niece loves it even more. She's hidden little notes around the car for the new owners – asking them to be&nbsp;nice to it, treat it kindly, and if they don't like it to return it to her. Sweet, no?So what is his company giving him instead? One of those, he says, nodding at the BMW 116i I'm just stepping into (it turns out it's no accident that he's come out to talk about cars with me). Well, hop in, Mr Neighbour (he's asked not to be named, I'm not sure why). Let's go for a spin.Now most people would be delighted to trade in their crappy old&nbsp;fake Al Caponemobile for a&nbsp;brand-new BMW. It's clearly a&nbsp;much better car. And my neighbour admits that the ride is good, it's very comfortable and extremely well made. To drive it's lovely – balanced, assured, confident, smooth (unless that's just&nbsp;the driver). So what's his problem? "It's just so… corporate," he says, making no attempt to hide his contempt.His real problem, then, is not with this particular car, but that he&nbsp;doesn't want to be – or be seen to&nbsp;be&nbsp;– the sort of person who drives&nbsp;a BMW. And he's not, he's much too nice. At least his is going&nbsp;to be bright red, like this one. Anything but the usual black or silver, he says.I'm with him on all of that. But&nbsp;I&nbsp;do have a problem with this particular car, too. I think it's awkward to look at – with its high&nbsp;sides and its long snout. It&nbsp;doesn't look significantly different&nbsp;from the model it succeeds – BMWs do that, they evolve rather than revolt. The grille has changed, the car is a bit longer and a bit wider. Crucially there's an extra 2cm of legroom in the back, which was the biggest problem with the last one. It's more fuel efficient and there's more room for luggage. It's certainly&nbsp;improved. But it's still ugly. And&nbsp;it's&nbsp;still a BMW, even in bright red. I would – honestly – rather have&nbsp;a Golf.A few days later I see my neighbour, in his brand-new bright&nbsp;red BMW. I have to say he&nbsp;looks very pleased – maybe even&nbsp;a little bit pleased with himself. Perhaps he has changed. No sign of his niece. She hasn't been&nbsp;back since.BMW 116i SportPrice£21,305Top speed130mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.5 secondsAverage consumption49.6mpgC02 emissions132g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating6/10
You can tell a lot from rules and regulations. AtInsomnia44("the UK's largest gaming festival") you are not allowed to bring your own fridge, or your own grill. You are also forbidden from sleeping at your desk – they are laid out in rows for the computer gamers, as at a call centre. However, less repressively, you may have food delivered to you as you play. Not moving, I&nbsp;deduce, is considered desirable.So far, so much very unlike Glyndebourne, which is about my comfort zone in the festival world. I have never played a computer game, leaving aside a brief recent flirtation with something called Fruit Ninja – one slices fruit very quickly on an iPad – which left me hyperventilating and overexcited. (In short, if that's too rich for my blood, God help me when it comes to blowing up dragons, or whatever one does in proper gaming.)"You are," says Craig Fletcher, managing director of Insomnia44, "one of the 40%." The 40% who don't game, that is. Computer gaming is one of those things that you are either inside or outside the circle of. To those outside, it is generally regarded as antisocial, potentially violence-inducing and an obstacle in the way of young people getting some fresh air. For those inside – well, I am here to see what the fuss is about.As I arrive at the International Centre in Telford, Shropshire, young people are steadily trickling in. They are mostly in their early 20s, many staggering beneath the weight of their computers, which they have brought with them. There's a uniform: absolutely everyone is in jeans and a hoodie. But they seem bright and, as it were, fully in command of the basic social graces. And there are women! A few, anyway. Inside the unprepossessing shed that is this Midlands convention centre, there is a cavernous hall where up to 1,000 people can play games. They look set for the long haul: carrier bags groan with snacks and energy drinks. Someone has put up an artificial Christmas tree. This festival is, I am told, small: the summer iteration is three times as large, says Fletcher, and next week 12,000 are gathering for a similar event in Sweden.Another hall is set up with a big screen and spectator seating for several hundred: this is where, I learn, enthusiasts gather to watch tournaments; gaming is increasingly becoming a spectator sport. (There's an international league, owned by NewsCorp.) A prize of £20,000 is up for grabs this weekend for the winner of a Starcraft tournament. This, I am told, is a game of strategy – "like chess", says Michael O'Dell, who manages a team of professional gamers called Dignitas. David Treacy explains that you have first to build your economy, then create an army, and then go into battle. Treacy, 27, a willowy, articulate fellow, is a Dignitas pro, one of the best. Which, in the UK, doesn't mean vast riches (unlike in South Korea where, according to Fletcher, "players are flown in choppers to stadia and watched by 60,000 people"). Treacy plays under the name Zaccubus. I also meet Wizzo, Lumpy, Dream, Dopey and Bashful. OK, so I made the last two up. But I did meet Total Biscuit, who commentates on the big matches.Why do people come? Stephen Kavanagh, 23, a philosophy student from Cork, tells me it's to meet up with the buddies he usually plays with online – "You can play anywhere, but interacting in person is a million times better." Chris Enderby and Ross McCall, both 21 and from Edinburgh, agree: "We want to be part of this environment. People think of gamers sitting alone in their rooms, but this is social." Becky Millington, 21, a waitress from Walsall, came with a dozen friends and, she says cheerfully, she will "play until my eyes can't see any more".I decide to attempt Counter-Strike. The setting is some kind of vaguely Middle-Eastern walled compound, with palm trees visible above stone walls. I have to shoot another guy before he gets me. We are, notionally, a terrorist and a counter-terrorist. O'Dell kindly offers to "switch off the blood" but I think I can grasp the difference between fact and fiction. There's something intensely familiar about the visual environment; finally, I realise that the backdrop (the walls and palms) were referenced by Dexter Dalwood in his 2010 painting White Flag, shown in last year's Turner prize exhibition. When I see the experts play their concentration is total, their fingers flashing over the keyboard as if playing Chopin. I, needless to say, am dead in seconds.
The quest to create a tablet computer to rival Apple's iPad is fraught with danger. The world's largest PC maker, Hewlett-Packard, charged in this summer, only to cancel its TouchPad – now dubbed the "OuchPad" – after just 48 days on sale. Samsung has withdrawn its Galaxy Tab from some markets after a patent battle with Apple, while Amazon's hotly anticipated Kindle Fire has hardly set the reviewers alight.This week, the boss of Nokia's French business let slip thatthe world's largest phone manufacturer was moving into the market too, and would be ready with its first tablet by next June. Having just relaunched its smartphone business in a bid to re-enter a market that has destroyed its bottom line and threatens its very existence, Nokia cannot afford a failure – but tablet sales are booming. Apple chief executive Tim Cook believes tablets will soon outsell laptop and desktop computers.Apple has created a genuine desire for a more tactile, armchair-computing experience, and the research firm Gartner expects 64m tablets to be sold worldwide this year, and more than 100m next year. An estimated 46m iPads will sell by Christmas; the second-best-selling category will be the multitude of devices running on Google's Android system (11m), raising the question of whether the tablet computer market will ever develop into more than a one-brand product.Apple has form: the MP3 player was not invented by Steve Jobs, but he made it popular and in the face of the iPod's unstoppable rise other manufacturers simply gave up.Francisco Jeronimo, an IDC analyst, believes competitors will not make that mistake again. "When the iPod launched, no one paid much attention. Whatever Apple does now, everyone follows straightaway. Nokia learned in the hardest way that missing a trend is missing market share. It may take one or two more years, but there will be someone able to compete with Apple."Competitors are reacting faster than they did against the iPhone. Then, it took three years for equivalent smartphones to arrive. But the original iPad launched in March last year, and Samsung's Galaxy Tab is already regarded as a contender.That is probably why Apple has spent a fortune on legal bills, taking the South Korean manufacturer to court for patent infringement in more than 20 markets around the world from Germany to Australia.One of the supposed iPad-killers was Amazon's Kindle Fire. Amazon is not a technology company but it can give buyers discounted access to the world's largest video and music shop, and at $199 (£125), the Fire is considerably cheaper than the iPad. It is not on sale in the UK until next year but Americans are expected to buy 3m-5m units by Christmas.However, the reviews have been underwhelming. It may well tempt the more technologically timid, but has been dismissed as a viewing screen rather than an alternative laptop."It's a market that can be defined as iPad and everyone else," says Gartner analyst Michael Gartenberg. He believes Amazon's tablet will find a sizeable following, but says that its computing power is to the iPad what electric cars are to four-wheel drive trucks.Some had hoped that RIM's BlackBerry-based tablet, the PlayBook, would prove popular among the millions of corporate users that have adopted its sister mobile phone.But the launch earlier this year was a huge disappointment: the tablet had no email, calendar or messaging access without being connected to a BlackBerry via Bluetooth. Hardly a recipe for attracting new customers.What Amazon, Samsung and others using the Android operating system lack is software that communicates seamlessly across a multitude of devices, especially computers. This is important because it makes transferring films or documents from one to the other headache-free.The only company other than Apple making software that operates laptops, tablets and phones is Microsoft. And that is probably Nokia's single biggest advantage in launching a tablet: it already uses Windows for its new smartphone, launched this week, and next year's tablet will run on Windows&nbsp;8, the first version of Windows designed for both tablets and PCs.The holy grail of an iPad killer may never be found, but Apple's competitors are not ready to give up just yet.The rivalsApple iPadLaunched: March 2010Price: from £399Number shipped: 40mWhat the critics say:"The iPad is still the only tablet that really matters ... It is perhaps the most deeply personal computer that exists, after smartphones." GizmodoHP TouchPadLaunched: July 2011Price: from $499, slashed to $99Number shipped: 500,000 (estimate)What the critics say:"We all wanted the TouchPad to really compete, to give us a compelling third party to join the iOS and Android boxes on the ballot. But, alas, this isn't quite it." EngadgetSamsung Galaxy TabLaunched: November 2010Price: from £399Number shipped: 1mWhat the critics say:"The Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 is a major contender." TechRadarBlackBerry PlayBookLaunched: June 2011Price: £249 under offer at Dixons for 16GB wifiNumber shipped: 700,000What the critics say:"Let's get one thing straight: the PlayBook is only suitable for people who have a BlackBerry smart phone and will never, ever switch to a different brand." CNET
Four British men charged with computer hacking in connection with online groups LulzSec and Anonymous will not stand trial before November next year.The four – Peter David Gibson, 22, Ashley Rhodes, 26, Christopher Weatherhead, 20 and a 17-year-old student – were given a provisional trial date of 7 November 2012 at a short hearing at Southwark crown court in London on Friday.The four men are separately charged with conspiracy to carry out an unauthorised act in relation to a computer. They were arrested earlier this year by police investigating online attacks by the hacking groups Anonymous and LulzSec.All four are set to enter pleas for the first time at a plea and case management hearing listed for 26 January. The group will be the first of the 10 British males arrested in connection with Anonymous and LulzSec arrests to enter guilty or not guilty pleas to the charges.The police are understood to need more time to gather evidence.Only Gibson, from Hartlepool, appeared in court on Friday, wearing a smart grey suit and white shirt.The group's bail conditions prohibit them from using online nicknames or using internet relay chat websites, the forums where Anonymous members are alleged to have plotted attacks.Police have so far arrested 10 people in the UK, all male, in connection with online attacks carried out by the LulzSec and Anonymous groups.
This week, Gartner produced the quarterly smartphone sales figures, which were dulysliced and and diced by Charles Arthur: these figures show that Android rules the world, with over half the share of units shipped during the three months from July to September.Buta survey of developers by Appcelerator, prepared around the same time as a Gartner numbers shows a disconnect: developers are targeting platforms with minimal market share and not going all out for Android.What's going on? Have we all gone mad? Why's the market telling us one thing, yet we're doing another?The dataThe article contains a chart showing the change in percentage of actual sales over time. You can see the massive green blob representing Android's takeover, smushing Symbian, RIM and the others out of relevance.Normalised smartphone shareIn the Appcelerator survey, we see this chart that shows iOS development is very interesting to developers, Android development is the next most interesting, HTML5 mobile web cross-platform development next, and then Windows Phone 7 makes a decent showing with 38%. And then come the others.Windows Phone developer interest has risen during the third quarter of 2011. Source: Appcelerator(One issue with this comparison is that Gartner's data does not represent people who own two devices. In the end-user, consumer space this number is not likely to be relevant and hence won't be under-reported. In the developer space, most developers are likely to be thinking about multiple devices – ie a developer who's interested in building for Android may also be interested in cross-platform HTML5-based development. As we go though, we should be able to render this distinction moot.)What hasn't been widely reported from the Appcelerator survey is this chart that shows the change in developer interest over time:How developer interest for different smartphone platforms has changed over the past two years. Source: Appcelerator(You can find the chart onpage 8 of the PDF report.)Over the period from Q1 2010 to Q3 2011, Gartner reports that iOS's position in the smartphone market has held steady at around 15%. Likewise, on the interest scale, Appcelerator's data shows developer interest has been such that about 90% of developers targeting mobile have been interested in iOS. So one reading would be that 90% of developers want to invest in 15% of the market.Looking at WP7 next, this starts off in the Appcelerator data with niche interest in January 2010 [miraculously, since it wasn't publicly known of; possibly this is the aggregate of Windows Mobile and Windows Phone - Tech. Ed] but then climbs quickly to the low-to-mid 30%s in March 2010 and holds firm to the present. Taking a rough average, one-third or mobile developers fancy their hand with WP7.Finally, we have Android. If we ignore the first three months and go from March 2010, interest runs at around 82.5% for the whole period. But in the same period, the Gartner shipment data goes from around 10% to over 50%.To sum up:• 90% of developers like iOS, even though it's only got 15% of sales• 33% of developers like WP7, even though it's only for 1.7% of sales• 85% of developers like Android, which once had 10% but now has 50% of sales.What's happening here is that attitudes are remaining the same over a roughly two-year period, in that iOS and Android are cool and WP7 might be interesting, even thought the market is now flipped on its head and Android owns it.But should we instead be running in terror from building anything that's not Android, deleting Xcode and installing Eclipse?DisconnectDevelopers are, at the heart of it, engineers, and as such we look for patterns. We look to build controllable machines where known input plus known quantity equals known output. In the fluffy world of customer behaviour, the only thing that we have to go on is history; and history, in our case, suggests that if the availability of Windows apps killed the Mac in the PC era (and by "killed" I mean gained 95%+ market share), then surely we as a community can do the same thing and control the market? If we build it, the users will come.Except for that's not happening. The Windows Phone Marketplacenow has 35,000 apps, and 1.7% of sales. The Android Market has around360,000apps and 52% of sales. The Apple App Store has around500,000 appsand 15% of sales.Even a "quality" argument doesn't stack up here. The Apple App Store has much better apps than Android (take a look atthis articlefor more thoughts on this topic). So we can't say that the smaller number of Android apps has driven platform adoption by giving users on that platform better quality.Clearly then, it doesn't matter what we as developers do. The market's going to do what it fancies with or without us.ReactingWhat I think these numbers show us is that as developers we've got to shift out of this position of assuming we're important in all this. We don't need to build up app store numbers for the good of the vendors. We need to be watching the market and understanding where the customers are taking us. This is a good thing – it's a sign of maturity in our industry. After all, no other mature market behaves like this. Most people listen to their customers rather than blithely continuing with old thinking as the world changes underneath our feet.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
Tablets such as Apple's iPad aren't just a post-PC device: they're a pre-PC one too, used by people in the mornings around breakfast time and then later in the evening, after they use with their PC in the day, according to research from comScore.And the UK is in the vanguard of adoption of non-PC devices such as mobiles, tablets and games consoles for browsing the web, ranking with the US second only to Singapore in the use of the new devices for browsing the web.Although tablet browsing is still only a tiny slice of overall browsing, together with smartphones they are a fast-growing segment of the browsing market, theresearchfound.The comScore research also found patterns of usage were different throughout the day depending on the device being used: during weekdays, tablet traffic had a morning peak at about 8am before falling off and then rising again from 4pm onward until it hit a daily peak at 10pm – suggesting that people were using them at home, possibly while watching TV.For smartphones, there was a similar 8am peak and a smaller fall which then also rose to a 10pm peak, though without such a large fall during the day – suggestive of people using them as a device they carry with them everywhere.PCs, meanwhile, have a peak in web browsing at 9am which then fell steadily through the day.Variation in US web traffic by source to news sites during the week. Data and graphic: comScoreAt the weekend, the usage pattern in the US is much steadier, with tablets, mobiles and PCs all seeing a peak at 9.30am and tailing away, with a second peak at about 9.30pm for PCs and around 10pm for tablets.Variation in US web traffic by source to news sites during the weekend. Data and graphic: comScoreThe study, carried out in August and September, gathers data from site access by devices as well as other information gathered by the company.In the UK and US, 6.8% of web browsing comes from non-PC sources. Singapore, which leads the world, has 7.2% of web browsing coming from non-PC devices.In the UK, 67.6% of non-PC web browsing was from mobiles, 24.7% by tablets and 7.7% by other devices such as games consoles and e-readers. In the US the figure was 64.4%, 28.1% and 7.5%.That means in the UK and US about 4% of overall web browsing comes via smartphones and 1.6% from tablets. While small, they also indicate rapid growth in a markets which barely existed four years ago. The iPhone first went on sale in mid-2007, while the first Android phones were not available until the end of 2008. The iPad onlybecame available in the UK in May 2010; since then about 40m iPads have been sold worldwide, with the number of tablets including Android models in use probably at 50m.That compares to an installed base of around 1.5bn PCs worldwide. Estimates for the number of smartphones in use worldwide are between 600m and 800m, depending on replacement speed.The comScore figures might imply at first that tablets are under-represented in web viewing, as the number in use is equivalent to 2.6% of the number of installed PCs. Similarly, there are nearly half as many smartphones as PCs in use.But instead the figures appear to point to the way that people are jumping between devices – and especially to the way that tablets have begun to be used at the beginning and end of the day instead of a PC.Thus tablet owners use their devices to browse news websites at the start of the day, and then move on to a PC during the working day, and then back to a tablet at the end of the day. Similarly, mobile phones may be used for web browsing through the day when people are away from a PC.The growth of tablet use is borne out by the fact that even as non-PC traffic grew over the past four months, the proportion from tablets rose within it from around 20% to 30%. Meanwhile smartphones were pushed down, as were games consoles and e-readers, even though usage increased."While tablets have thus far only penetrated a small percentage of the US population, the potential for this device to break into the mainstream is significant, as more manufacturers offer tablets at varying price points," comScore notes."Currently, half or more of tablet users report having engaged in activities such as consuming news, viewing entertainment, social networking, and shopping on their devices at least once in the previous month. With more publishers optimising their properties for tablet presentation and developers creating apps specific to tablets, it is likely that tablet owners' engagement with their devices will only continue to grow."Overall, comScore says the patterns are indicative of a new, global breed of "digital omnivores" who consume internet content across a multitude of devices through the day. In five global markets – the UK, US, Australia, Japan and Singapore – more than 5% of internet traffic came from non-PC devices.The increase in Wi-Fi availability in places such as coffee shops and some food outlets is also helping drive that use, with 37.2% of US digital traffic coming from mobile phones using a Wi-Fi connection. Yet tablets – commonly used with a Wi-Fi connection – were increasingly seen accessing the net via mobile broadband, with just less than 10% of connections coming on the move.In all, the US mobile population grew 19% to 116m users – compared to around 260m of the total population in the US – whose use of mobile media is being driven by smartphones. Of those, half use "mobile media" via the web; the others use a mixture of voice and texting.Tablets – principally the iPad – are growing rapidly in use, the report found. "Although tablets have yet to be widely adopted, they already contribute nearly 2% of all US web browsing traffic, driven almost exclusively by the iPad, which currently accounts for more than 97% of all tablet traffic," the company said.Apple devices were also used disproportionately to their installed base, said comScore: Apple's iOS runs 43.1% of the smartphones and tablets in use in the US, compared to 34.1% for Android devices and 15.4% for BlackBerry maker RIM.But in browsing, iOS makes up 58.5% of the use, against 31.9% for Android and 5.0% for RIM – suggesting iOS users browse about 36% more than expected, Android users 6.5% less, and BlackBerry users only one-third as much.US tablet ownership was concentrated among young males, with half being used in households earning $100,000 (£63,000) and above, the research found, though the expectation is that the Amazon Kindle Fire, priced at $199 against the iPad's $399, will broaden tablet adoption.Content availability was also important: half of tablet users had made a purchase via a tablet in the past month, the study found.
Children in Need is on again, and here's an interesting way to donate. Several weeks ago, Mark Hales ofOxygen Accelerator, a bootcamp for technoloft start ups based at the Birmingham Science Park, had an idea: he'd invite school children to submit ideas for games, and then code up the best entry over 48 hours. In the end there were over 600 entries and Hales chose to combine two of the entries into one project.Last weekend he and his team designed and programmedWhack-A-Cake, in which players gather the ingredients for the perfect cake, grabbing stuff like chocolate and flour and trying to avoid evil ingredients like mushrooms and chili. Each cake has eight tiers and points are awarded for building as many as possible."The game was created using HTML5 and JavaScript with a PHP backend for the league tables," says Hales. "Plus, it was packaged for Android and iOS using Java and Objective C. The key challenges were ensuring that performance was acceptable cross-platform, especially on mobile devices, despite the heavy time constraints. A major challenge was simply co-ordinating tasks across a team of 13 coders writing in different languages on different sections of the game while attempting to keep the code well structured."At the moment, whack-A-Cake is playable on PC and donations are invited via the website. However, paid-for versions will be available via Android Market, The Chrome Webstore ad Apple App Store soon.If you've never whacked a cake before, now is clearly the most charitable time to start.You can play Whack-A-Cake – and donate –right here!
I can't find how to export my stuff from BT Yahoo mail. I was used to using Microsoft Outlook until it stopped working on my PC earlier this year. I'd like to get it working again because I can't stand BT Yahoo's adverts, the crude spell checker and the lack of features like an "undo" key if I make a big typing mistake. (I'm disabled and make loads of mega typos, even though I also use Dragon Naturally Speaking on longer things.) I like being able to use Microsoft Word to type emails in Outlook.My system is Windows 7 with the old Office XP working via Windows 7's XP Mode. Although I don't like it compared with the traditional style, I have got Office 2007 on the PC as well. Is there any other software I could go for, or am I just obsessed with Outlook because it used to work as my email software and now, for an unknown reason, won't?Alan MooreMicrosoft Office has a "Detect and Repair" feature that checks to make sure that the Office programs are correctly installed and that no files have been corrupted. Basically, it resets things to the state when you installed it. In Office XP and Office 2003, run Word (or any Office program), click on Help and choose Detect and Repair. This isn't guaranteed to fix Outlook, but it's worth a go. Microsoft's Help and Support site has as a help document,How to understand the repair feature in Office 2003 and in Office XP.BT Yahoo also hasan online help pagethat "automatically adds your new email account information to your email client (for example: Outlook Express). This includes your username, POP server, and SMTP server names." This might get Outlook going again.Of course, you can use Microsoft Word (or any word processor) to create emails, if you simply copy the text from Word (Ctrl-A, Ctrl-C) and then paste it into an empty email (Ctrl-V). Word's "Send to" feature will also send any text as an attachment, using your default email program. Microsoft Word 2007 will do this too: click the orb (or globe) in the top left corner of Word and select Send from the menu. Alternatively, press Alt-F and then D.The menu command to send a document by email is missing from Word 2007, but the functionality is still there. The trick is to go to Word Options, click Customize, select "Command Not in the Ribbon" from the pull down menu, and add "Send to Mail Recipient" to the Quick Access toolbar. The procedure is explained at eHow,How to Send a Word Document as an HTML Email.This page also describes how to create a macro to send HTML email and add that to the Quick Access toolbar as well. In fact, if you add your most-used commands and a few macros to Word 2007's Quick Access toolbar, you should be able to use it with the Ribbon closed. It's what I do.I still think it's worth getting used to the Ribbon, because it does make most Office commands easier to use. Some people hate it, but Office 2007 and 2010 have sold extremely well, and ribbons are now being added to more utilities in Windows 8.You can also use Outlook to extract your email from BT Yahoo. The instructions are in a blog post,Use an IMAP server for Yahoo and BT Internet email. IMAP downloads mail to your desktop, so you have a copy that you can back up, while leaving it on the server, so you can access it with other devices such as smartphones, or while you're away from your main machine.But I'm not convinced it's worth sticking with Microsoft Outlook. This is aimed at business users, it's designed to work with Microsoft's Exchange Server, and it does a lot more than email. If you just want to collect email, there are plenty of free programs to do that.Since you have Windows 7, I'd suggest downloading the free desktop program, Windows Live Mail 2011, fromhttp://download.live.com/wlmail. This is an improved version of the program that replaced Outlook Express when Windows Vista was released in 2007, and its layout is similar to Outlook, with Mail, Calendar and Contacts buttons down the left-hand pane. It works well with Hotmail, Gmail, Yahoo Plus and other email services, so it should work with BT Yahoo as well.Windows Live Mail desktop has spell-checking (complete with wavy red underlines), and supports Ctrl-Z (undo). It doesn't have all of Microsoft Word's features, of course, but it probably has enough for your purposes. Also, if you open a mailbox on the web-based Hotmail then you get a free 25GB SkyDrive – which makes it easy to share photos – plus access to simplified online versions of the core Microsoft Office programs. Indeed, instead of emailing people, you could create Word documents, save them in or upload them to SkyDrive, and just email the recipient a link.The Windows Live Essentials suite also includes a great photo organiser, Windows Live Photo Gallery, and a cloud-based synchronisation service, Windows Live Mesh.Google, of course, offers much the same features with Gmail, Google Docs and Picasa, so try those with Windows Live Mail as well, and see which you prefer. There's not much in it, but Windows Live Mail 2011 is better integrated with Hotmail and SkyDrive, and Microsoft provides better compatibility with Office documents. (Windows Live also integrates with Windows Messenger, Facebook, LinkedIn and Myspace, which Google doesn't do, but this may be irrelevant.)I'm heavily into Gmail, having switched from Yahoo when the Gmail beta appeared in 2004, and I use it with both Mozilla Thunderbird and Outlook. I wrote about it last year inSolve email problems forever by setting up Gmail with your own domain. However, this was an answer to a one-person business user, and my conclusion was: "I'd still go for Gmail for professional use, and it has a lot of geek appeal, but the Live Hotmail/Essentials combination is worth considering as a home and family option."Change can be unsettling, but I think you should move off BT Yahoo as soon as possible, abandon Office XP, and get out of the stopgap Windows XP Mode. You already have superior alternatives in Gmail/Hotmail, and Office 2007 in Windows 7. Once you get used to them, I'm pretty sure you'll wish you'd moved earlier.
A crossover between board games and mobile applications is nothing new: Monopoly was one of the most popular Java games in the years before the apps rebranding was a glint in Apple's eye.Since then, Scrabble, Trivial Pursuit and UNO have all made strong showings on the app stores, not to mention new board game-inspired titles like Words With Friends, which is now one of social games publisher Zynga's key mobile products.App-Player is something different. It's a £19.99 board game made by Cheatwell Games in the UK, which is being launched for Christmas 2011. The twist is that it's used alongside dedicated iPhone and Android apps. Players are still moving physical counters around the board, but the gameplay cues are coming from their smartphones.Four apps have been released for the game's launch. App-Player Great Big Trivia Quiz, App-Player Humm Bug, App-Player Tension and App-Player Masquerade. More will follow in 2012 if the game sells well – it's being distributed online and offline.Founder Jon Church says that the inspiration behind this has been slow-burning. "We had the idea to do this with electronic cards 15-20 years ago, but the technology wasn't there to enable it to be used," he says. "Even when apps came out three years ago, there wasn't enough of a consumer base. But we've been watching the space carefully."Cheatwell has dipped into its back catalogue of physical board games for the first four App-Player titles, with the aim of ensuring they are genuinely fun to play, rather than simply a technical novelty. The apps are free, so for now the company is making its money from sales of the board.Church admits to some uncertainty during the process of pitching App-Player to retailers. "It's quite a conservative industry: a lot of people we showed it to don't seem to get apps at all," he says."But there is a new generation of people coming along who are terribly familiar with apps. At the same time, these devices are not just for early adopters and twentysomethings any more. They've moved far more into becoming a family thing."Cheatwell made the effort to launch on both iPhone and Android, although the company is steering clear of Windows Phone and BlackBerry for now while it proves the concept.If it sells well, Cheatwell will release more apps, and may even talk to developers whose iPhone games have become big App Store brands – although the obvious one, Angry Birds, has already been turned into a board game by Mattel."We would like to have a big portfolio of games that suit the App-Play board, including from external developers," says Church. "The potential of this is that you can create a new app and put it on the app stores, print a PDF out that fits into the mould-injected pieces that we have, and you've got a whole new board."
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I was having this debate with somebody the other day, and it's the internet. Despite what a lot of people say about people spreading false information, or for child porn and so on, overall it's a force for good. It's probably the most significant thing that's happened in my lifetime. The internet is now a utility in the way that water and electricity are.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This morning, to read about Indian languages because I'm about to go to India, and it's not something I knew a lot about. I also looked at some pictures of old motorcycles, which is something I do regularly.What additional features would you add if you could?I sometimes think that the dating of things could be better, particularly on news content – often it's not apparent how old things are, which I find frustrating.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years?No, but I imagine it will have changed significantly from what we know now. I was an early adopter – I've had it since the mid-90s, and it's changed a lot since then.What always frustrates you about technology in general?That it's subject to fashion, like everything else is. You get buzzwords and phrases that seem to dictate people's efforts.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I very briefly had a microwave oven that I quickly gave away, because I could never work out what they do better than a regular oven.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I'm a great believer in the principle of try it and work it out. If a gadget is designed well, you can easily work out how to use it. But if you can't, it isn't shameful to read the instructions.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I would probably tend more towards nerd, but I'm a slightly reactionary nerd because I'm a big fan of things such as clockwork. I'm a big user of digital technology, but I don't find it beautiful.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I have a light aircraft, does that count?Mac or PC, and why?I've been with Macs ever since I started seriously using a computer, but these days I use both – we have PCs in the office. I've always found Macs nicer to use, and much more human.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do a lot more downloading now. The last physical media I bought was some old films on DVD. The last CD I bought was probably over a year ago, and was something classical. I'm just about old enough to moan that records were a lot nicer!Robot butlers – a good idea or not?It's a lovely idea, but it's such a long way off. I think we're actually a long way from true robotics because we're doing it by a lot of elaborate mathematics, but before it can really work we need to develop artificial instinct. It's such a complicated thing that I don't think pure mathematics will work – we need to develop something neural.What piece of technology would you most like to own?If it were possible, and I hope it will be some day, I'd like some sort of anti-gravity travel capsule – some way to travel around the without the need for jets and wings and so on.•James May co-presents, with Richard Hammond, Top Gear at the Movies, which is out now on DVD
Activision has announced that Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 has set a five-day worldwide sell-through record, with sales of more than $775m (£490m). The title had alreadysmashed the one-day records, earning $400m in its first 24 hours on sale in the US and UK.The five-day figure beats the $650m earned by Call of Duty: Black Ops over its opening week last year.The number also far exceeds the opening revenues from any movie or album release in 2011 – the biggest film of the year, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2, made $202m in its first five days. It is likely that Modern Warfare 3 will join the select group of £1bn-grossing entertainment properties by Christmas.So can we now truly say that game releases are "bigger" than films? Well, it's complicated. If we look at comparative five-day records, the figures lead us toward the games industry:Top five highest grossing video games over five days1. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 ($775m)2. Call of Duty: Black Ops ($650m)3. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 ($550m)4. Grand Theft Auto IV ($500m)5. Halo 3 ($300m, seven days)(Figures: various sources)Top five highest grossing movies over five days1. The Dark Knight ($203m)2. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2($202m)3. Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen ($200m)4. Star Wars Episode 3: Revenge of the Sith ($172m)5. Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest ($169m)(Figures:Box Office Mojo)If we're to compare revenue totals for 2010, the figures can vary between different analysts, but DFC Intelligenceput the global games industry figure at $66bn.Meanwhile, if we're sticking with Call of Duty, sales for the entire series now stand at around $6bn, which is comparable to Hollywood's biggest success stories.Over at the cinema, theLA Times put the 2010 global box office figureat $31.8bn; and in audio, the recorded music revenues for that year were estimated at $35.1bn by eMarketer. So the games industry is clearly ahead here.But of course, the movie figures are box office only, and a huge chunk of revenue comes later from DVD/Blu-ray sales as well as licensing. The likes of Star Wars and Toy Story have made many millions more through toys, books and other spin-offs. According to the LA Times, Toy Story 3 alone generated $2.8bn in merchandise sales last year. DVD sales are much harder to track down, and indeed don't exist in terms of global figures, but according toScreen Digest, in the UK alone Lord of the Rings: Fellowship of the Ring has sold 7.6m copies on home formats with Titanic on 7.2m.However, games have found their own equivalent to the long tail DVD market in the form of DLC add-ons. Activision sold more than 20m map packs for Call of Duty: Black Ops, adding considerably to the revenue on that title, and almost every triple-A release this year will feature downloadable content of some form.There is also a growing video game merchandising business with books, comics, soundtrack CDs and action figures all adding to the revenues garnered by leading brands.Where the figures also fall down, however, is in the area of sheer population reach. Call of Duty: Black Ops has sold something in the region of 25m copies, so lets add in a few shared/pirated copies, plus pre-owned sales and generously calculate that around 35m people have played it. Now let's look at those five movies again, with ticket sales (ie, bums on seats) rather than revenue:1. The Dark Knight (74,282,100)2. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 (47,981,300)3. Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen (53,900,900)4. Star Wars Episode 3: Revenge of the Sith (59,324,600)5. Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest (64,628,400)And even these figures are dwarfed by the real giants – the original Star Wars has sold almost 180m tickets. And we can haphazardly add video, DVD and TV viewings on top of that.Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 is big, that's for sure, but as a mass cultural event, it still has a looooong way to go.
Looking back to the Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4 review, I was already concerned that reviews of Travellers Tales' Lego games were getting predictable.I'm over that concern now and, instead, am wondering how to score this (predictably) charming sequel. It's every bit as good as the first instalment, so does that warrant another five stars? Or should I fly in the face of the "if it ain't broke ..." philosophy and question the lack of advances?Actually, that suggests the team at TT are treading water, and they're not. Years 5-7 is a marked improvement in many ways, with more variety to the gameplay and richer visuals.There is the occasional sense that the onscreen prompts are spoonfeeding you solutions, but that soon passes when you're roaming around a level and utterly clueless (literally) how to progress. That, of course, just makes it all the more satisfying (or head slapping) when you finally work it out.As the name suggests, this collection of games covers the final three books/four films of the series, where the story took a darker turn. That's certainly reflected here although treated with the same irreverence you'd expect of TT.It's also hard to shake the feeling that the standard Lego MO – no dialogue, just squeaks and grunts and murmurs – is a marked improvement on some of the "acting" in the films … and some might argue the same of Lego's efficient abridging of JK Rowling's weighty tomes.Regardless, the chapters here are affectionate and faithful while sprinkling everything with a nice line in humour. Even several hours in, the boos of Slytherin pupils every time they run into Harry makes me smile.While the core of the game – solve puzzles (often through cooperation, if you're taking or encouraging offspring to go the two player route), collect studs, rebuild things, etc – remains the same as ever, there are some advances.The most notable of these is probably the Sonic-like stud-collecting broomstick flight across London, which takes several attempts to master in Free Play mode.As before, however, you won't mind revisiting and replaying , whether it's to hit the "True Wizard" level of stud collection or to go back and explore the areas that were previously locked.In addition to the previous restrictions – locks and chains that can only be destroyed by experienced wizards, things that can only be opened by masters of the Dark Arts, etc – this time round there are some new unlocakables, such as areas that require Weasley Sticky Trainers to explore, or Muggle equipment that only Arthur Weasley can fix.All told, there's weeks of fun in this package. As you'd expect. It's fun and funny. As you'd expect. I'm utterly hooked. As you'd expect. Can we have Lego Matrix next? Please?• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
PC hardware vendors such as Acer, Asustek and Dell may withdraw from the tablet market next year because they cannot compete with Apple, Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble,suggeststhe Taiwanese news site Digitimes.The report – which is based only on "sources from upstream supply chains", who would expect to be seeing orders from those companies by now if they were planning an aggressive push into tablets in 2012 – suggests that the PC vendors cannot see any profit in tablets because they do not have a compelling content offering like the existing trio.However the sources' veracity is called into question by the same Digitimes report, which notes: "The sources pointed out that although iPad 2 is also seeing strong demand from consumers, sales were lower than those of iPad, indicating that consumers' strong enthusiasm for tablet PCs has already disappeared."That isn't borne out by iPad sales, which in the two quarters since the launch of the iPad 2 in March to the end of September have sold more than 20m, compared to 15m sold in the four quarters of the first iPad's availability.WithAcer having said that it is committed to higher-margin products than just PCs, andAsus aiming for a quad-core tabletin 2012, it seems more likely that the companies named are delaying some orders until 2012 as they await the arrival of Microsoft's Windows 8, which will also run on tablets. That looks like it could offer better volumes in the tablet market – though the question still remains of how rival companies offering essentially the same operating system will eke out profits. While Microsoft can be certain of making handsome profits from Windows 8, the same isn't necessarily true for the hardware companies, where even Hewlett-Packard, the world's biggest seller of PCs, makes an average profit of just $40 on each PC it sells at an average of $800.Windows 8 on tablets may allow tablet companies to raise prices because of the attractions of Microsoft's offerings, especially in apps – but they might find themselves in the same price-war struggle as they have been in the Google Android field, where Samsung has so far dominated sales. Amazon, notably, uses its own version of Android and its own cloud infrastructure to provide content for the Kindle Fire; none of the other Android tablet makers is able to offer the same.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM slashes PlayBook price &gt;&gt; Loop Insight"The 16GB, 32GB and 64GB models of the device will sell for $199, $299 and $399". It's deja vu all over again. That's a $200 price cut against the initial base price at which the PlayBook was introduced. These cuts must be costing RIM hundreds of dollars.'Occupy Flash' movement wants Adobe's plug-in dead &gt;&gt; Computerworld"A small group of website and mobile app developers have kicked off an 'Occupy Flash' campaign to put a stake in the heart of Adobe's popular browser plug-in." Hang on, isn't it the 99% who are meant to complain about the 1%? This is the wrong way round.Banks bung hard-up Acer £315m loan on Channel Register"Troubled Acer has penned a new financing deal to cover working capital requirements and pay off a previous loan it took out to acquire Gateway. "The firm has gone through a major reshuffle of management following a loss-making year in which sluggish consumer demand caught it by surprise and resulted in an inventory pile-up." Just to point out that the Gateway acquisition cost £350m and completed in October 2007. Four years later it has to take a loan out to finish that? Sounds like an unsuccessful acquisition that hasn't generated as much cash as expected.The vision behind Klout: measuring online influence &gt;&gt; The Official Klout BlogTom Coates comments on the soothing words from Klout's chief: "While superficially that seems reasonable, pretty much any of us who have been on the web a long time know what these scores result in. One way or another they'll make us targets for marketing and advertising companies to try and sell their products through us. "And while you talk about the ways in which you try to give people a better platform to be recognized for their passions, what you're actually doing (or at least this is how it seems) is to estimate which of us is financially worth the most, and then you're selling access to us to advertisers." That's the real vision behind it, he thinks.Walt Mossberg reviews Kindle Fire, Amazon's colour tablet &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"To be clear, the Kindle Fire is much less capable and versatile than the entry-level $499 iPad 2. It has a fraction of the apps, a smaller screen, much weaker battery life, a slower Web browser, half the internal storage and no cameras or microphone. It also has a rigid and somewhat frustrating user interface far less fluid than Apple's. "But the Fire has some big things going for it. First, the $199 price, though the Fire's seven-inch screen is less than half the surface area of the iPad's display. Second, the Amazon and Kindle brands, already known and loved for e-readers and more. Third, Amazon is the only major tablet maker other than Apple with a large, famous, easy-to-use content ecosystem that sells music, video, books and periodicals. The Fire can be thought of as a hardware front end to all that cloud content." Suspicion: the Kindle Fire will kill the 7in "official Android" market. Effect on the iPad: harder to measure.Kindle Fire gets torn down - no surprises here &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"iFixit, bless their hearts, have taken a Kindle Fire to pieces, though as it turns out, there aren't too many pieces to begin with. The battery is one huge unit, and all the processing and I/O occurs on a single PCB at the bottom of the device. "Those expecting a carbon copy of the Playbook both outside and in will be disappointed: the layout, batteries, PCB, and all the components are different, making the form factor more or less the only real similarity between the two devices." They share a processor. Basically, tablets are now a battery, screen, and a circuit board.Coffee Time: Market Share vs Profit - journal &gt;&gt; minimally minimalCompares the phone models Apple sells in the US with those that Samsung sells. One concludes that Samsung must have really good supply chain control, because that's some SKU [stockkeeping unit, ie different piece of merchandise] challenge there.Don't Be Too Disappointed By Google Music's Lackluster Debut &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"There are two things the critics decline to acknowledge: that Google is providing a simple, free service, and that all Google products start out underwhelming and gradually expand. Android was a mess when it showed up. And it's still a mess -- a mess blowing up to the tune of half a million devices a day. We all know Google doesn't ship complete products. So why do we waste our breath in day-one aspersion or praise when it's going to be a new Music down the line?"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Gamers playing The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim on the PlayStation 3 console have been lighting up forums with reports of a bug that causes gameplay-destroying lag and plummeting frame-rates. To make matters worse, the bug only kicks in when players have invested 20 or more hours of their time in the game.The bug arises from what sounds like the most trivial of causes: a design fault which means that save files grow in size enormously as players progress through the game.Skyrim's open-world nature means that a vast amount of data is accumulated regarding what abilities and objects players have acquired, as well as their movements through the game.The problem came to light when several players posted about it onpublisher Bethesda Softworks' official Skyrim forums. Footage of the glitchhas even begun to appear on YouTube.One of the first people to highlight the issue in the UK wasTim Clark, ex-editor of Official PlayStation Magazineand now editor-in-chief at Future Publishing."For the first 20 hours or so the game ran buttery smooth, and I was ready to lay my Game of the Year garland on its head," Clark says. "Then the lag started."At first the frame-rate would only get choppy – and we're talking very choppy at times–– after a few hours' play. It also seemed more pronounced in busy town areas, like Whiterun."The real worry, though, is that it now seems to be getting worse at a fairly consistent rate. I'm no programmer, but anecdotally the issue seems to be tied to the size of the game save, which creeps up as you play and save."Those who have posted about the problem report that the lag kicks in when the size of the game-save rises above 5Mb. Already, people have been trying out workarounds."In classic The IT Crowd style, switching it off and on again seemed to work initially," says Clark. "But after a while the choppiness would return."From speaking to colleagues and reading through the threads, it appears that the on/off trick becomes less effective as the save file keeps growing. Switching off all the autosave mechanisms also helps, and oddly 'waiting' (ie, advancing the clock) in the same area will sometimes reduce the file size a little."However, note that deleting multiple saves has no impact. Even if you run a single save, it will keep expanding in size and it's that which people are blaming for the problem, having had similar troubles with Fallout 3 previously."Pete Hines, vice-president of marketing at Bethesda, is adamant that the problem must involve factors other than save-file size."Most users aren't experiencing these kind of issues on the PS3," he says. "We are investigating the issue further as to why some folks are seeing this."Hines tweetedthat Bethesda was working on a patch to fix the lag issue.One possible reason for the problem, which has been the subject of much debate on the forums, could be the type of PS3 on which people are playing the game.Sony sold different versions of the original PS3, with various hard disk sizes, and the revised Slim version now on sale also comes with a variety of hard disks.If you encounter the problem while playing Skyrim, your best bet is tohead for the official Bethesda forumfor the PS3 version of the game.It's safe to say that Bethesda will swiftly get to grips with the problem and fix it with a downloadable patch, but it rather takes the gloss off a phenomenally successful launch period for the game – Bethesda has already shipped a staggering 7m copies worldwide."It simply has to be patched," says Clark. "The numbers Skyrim has already sold are incredible, and it's clearly a wonderful game when it works. Again: I would've said game of the year by a mile before the lag kicked in."
Phew, it's Friday. What digital interactive pleasures does your weekend hold?
The Chinese smartphone revolution is continuing to spread beyond that county's shores.China's ZTE is planning a major strategic shift away from the cheap phones and telecoms equipment that have made it one of the fastest growing manufacturers in both sectors, towards making more profitable smartphones and higher-end network gear – and is targeting the US market for further growth.ZTE hopes to rake in more overseas sales from supplying equipment such as the latest fourth generation LTE (long-term evolution) gear to major carriers.The firm, which started out in the mid-1980s selling accordions and bulky telephone sets, is also aggressively marketing its top-selling smartphones to battle the likes of Apple and Samsung."Our strategy is to raise the unit selling price of our phones," said chief executive Shi Lirong. "We're making a shift towards producing more smartphones by investing more in innovation and marketing. This is a marathon race and it's too early to declare any winners. We have our own strategy and will take it one step at a time."In the telecommunications equipment sector, ZTE now ranks the fifth largest in the world in overall sales – behind Ericsson, Huawei Technologies, Nokia Siemens Networks and Alcatel Lucent. That sector pits two Chinese companies against two Scandinavian ones and one French one."I'm very hopeful that we'll be able to make it to the top three in the future," said Shi, who is an engineer by training. "ZTE may be number five now, but our business is growing the fastest among our peers."For mobile phones, ZTE, based in the southern boomtown of Shenzhen, is now one of the top five makers globally. China is already one of the world's top five adopters of smartphones compared to its total mobile penetration, with 35% of urban Chinese consumers having one, according to asurvey released earlier this month.Shi, speaking on the sidelines of the Mobile Asia Congress, said ZTE's close links with major overseas telecommunications operators had helped shield it from the economic downturn in Europe and the US.One of the markets ZTE is banking on is next generation super-fast 4G mobile networks based on the TD-LTE standard. ZTE has won 28 commercial LTE contracts globally, including with Softbank in Japan and Hutchison 3G Austria."We took part in all the major LTE network projects in the world. We left almost no stone unturned," said Shi, who has been with the company for 24 years.The company hopes that such contract wins will help boost the contribution of overseas revenues to 60-70% eventually from 54% now.The group hopes its total revenue will grow by 30% this year, after climbing 17% to 70.26bn yuan (£7bn) last year, of which 60% came from equipment business and 26% from consumer devices including handsets, he said.In comparison, Ericsson's sales in 2010 totalled about £19bn and Huawei's were £17.5bn.ZTE, founded in 1985 by its chairman Hou Weigui, has diversified from its humble beginnings into consumer devices with its Blade and Skate smartphones, as well as its Light Tab tablet PCs.A museum at its Shenzhen headquarters gives a flavour of the early days, with faded photographs of its first spartan factories and a second-hand blue Mercedes - the first company car - on display.The company has been growing rapidly in the past decade, thanks largely to its low-cost strategy. Now the firm aims to move up the value chain by pumping out more high-end equipment and handsets, Shi said.In 2010, ZTE's gross profit margin for telecom equipment was up 3.55 percentage points to 38.43%, while margins for consumer devices products fell 5.88 percentage points to 20.26%, around half Apple's 40%."We've now given up quite a lot in making low-cost handphones," said Shi.The Chinese firm had aggressively grabbed market share over the past few years by selling low-cost feature phones to overseas emerging markets such as India and Africa.ZTE was thefourth largest mobile phone maker worldwide in the third quarter, according to IDC, with 19.1m phones shipped, compared to 12.1m in the same period in 2010.But it wasranked by research firm Gartner as the fifth largest handset maker, with a 3.2% market share after shipping 14.1m units, compared to 7.8m a year before, putting it far behind Nokia, Samsung, LG and Apple.The difference between the two research companies' figures arises because they use different measurement methods, and sample different outlets and wholesale channels to compile their figures. Numbers from China and Africa are particularly difficult to compile accurately.Shi said ZTE has now stopped producing cheap feature phones to focus more on quality handsets, and is aiming for smartphones to contribute 30% of the company's total handset revenue to lift margins this year.ZTE offers smartphones using Google's Android software, which now runs on a majority of smartphones sold worldwideaccording to Gartner.ZTE set a target to ship more than 80m mobile phones this year, including more than 10m smartphones – more than its crosstown rival Huawei, which also has a similar diversification strategy to capture the consumer market.Both Chinese firms face a challenge breaking into the US market, where hurdles are political as well as commercial.American lawmakers on the House of Representatives intelligence committee have announced an investigation into potential security threats posed by Chinese telecommunications firms due to concerns about cyber espionage.Shi, who was speaking before the announcement from Washington of the Congressional probe, said ZTE was adopting a patient approach to tackling the US market."We'll have to come up with some irresistible products that customers can't reject. We're adopting a more active and positive attitude towards the US market," he said.
Inventor Louis Daguerre, who created the world's first commercially successful way of capturing permanent photographs, has been celebrated with a Google doodle marking his 224th birthday.The French physicist is credited for developing the daguerreotype photographic process which enabled images from a camera to be captured on a silver-coated copper plate.He experimented with earlier processes which were able to capture images but would subsequently fade in order to create an effective method of producing permanent images.Daguerre found that by exposing silver-coated copper plates to iodine, light and then mercury vapour heated to 75C (167F), it would create an exact reproduction of the scene and would not disappear.The Google doodle pays tribute to the inventor by depicting a photograph of a family with their heads replaced by five letters in Google and the 'L' created by the shape of a lamp.
Internet shopping is supposed to be killing off the high street, but eBay is the latest website to announce plans for a physical outlet in the UK.At the shop, the latest high-profile experiment in the West End of London, there will be no tills. Shoppers will instead pay using their smartphones to scan a "quick response" code on the price tag. Like barcodes they direct the phone's browser to the payment section of the eBay website.The eBay "pop-up" shop is set to open for just five days from 1 December, the busiest window for online shopping before Christmas.It will stock the website's 200 bestsellers, which range from House of Fraser party frocks to toys from The Entertainer, but purchases will be delivered to customers' homes. A spokesman said the store would promise "no queues, no bags, no stress".eBay, which opened a similar store in New York this year, is cashing in on the popularity of smartphones, which are feeding a new mobile shopping culture. More than a quarter of adults and 47% of&nbsp;teenagers now own one and are increasingly using them to check prices and research products while walking around shops.Technology is changing traditional patterns of shopping: Tesco's chief executive, Philip Clarke, stated this year that retail was entering a new "multichannel" era as the physical and online shopping worlds collided."When we talk about the future of the high street, we have to see it in this context, not put it in some silo or reserve. That's not how consumers view the world any more. Their high street, their computer, their smartphone – all these offer different ways of shopping and all are converging," he said.Both Tesco and Ocado have trialled virtual shopping "walls" where shoppers can browse and order groceries using applications on their phones but Tesco upped the ante this week with a test of "augmented reality" in its stores.By holding a catalogue or a product key up to webcams  in the supermarket's aisles, shoppers can generate life-size 3D projections of products and read their specifications before making a purchase.Last month House of Fraser opened a shop in Aberdeen that had no products, just free coffee and assistants with iPads. Amazon is offering collection lockers in London shopping centres so clients don't suffer missed deliveries.
Over a buffet lunch a huddle of teenagers is trying to work out if any have yet had their "ah-ha" moment – the instant when an inspiring, perhaps life-changing thought hits.Across the room at theTEDxYouthDay event in Bathother young people are discussing the meaning of happiness with a bright-eyed adventurer who gave up his nine-to-five job to skateboard across Australia. More than 100 teenagers are crammed into a theatre in the Georgian city to hear talks from artists, entrepreneurs, travellers of all sorts who, organisers hope, will help them shape their lives."We're learning more today than we would at a normal day at school. It's opened our eyes," says Indra, 16. "Usually when you go to talks it's about being a doctor or accountant or something. Here we're talking about jobs you've never even heard of and thinking about concepts that aren't tangible – that you feel but haven't got a name for."TheTED (Technology Entertainment Design) conceptappears unstoppable after beginning as a four-day conference in California 25 years ago. It became an annual event to which the world's leading "thinkers and doers" are invited. They speak for no more than 18 minutes and the best "TEDtalks" are posted on the TED website. Bill Gates and Al Gore have contributed.Under the TEDx label, people organise their own TED-like events. There are strict rules – such as the 18-minute restriction and the number of people allowed to attend – but after that it is up to the organisers.TEDxYouthDaymoves the project forward again. Scheduled to coincide with the UN'sUniversal Children's Day, more than 100 TEDx youth events are taking place in 45 countries over four days.Charlotte Calkin, a designer and entrepreneur, decided to organise the event in Bath after attending a TED conference. Its coincidence with the announcement of depressing youth unemployment figures had not escaped her."It's a pretty bleak time for a lot of young people," she said. "We hope this sort of event will help motivate, help inspire. Maybe this can be an antidote to those figures."Adventurer Dave Cornthwaite is the first speaker at the conference, streamed live into at least six schools. He describes how he gave up a job he hated and found joy by skateboarding from John O'Groats to Land's End, then used the same mode of transport to cross Australia.Cornthwaite found that he loved going on adventures and telling stories about them. The point, he says, is that everyone has a talent, you just have to find out what it is and keep testing yourself.Other speakers include Jemma Jewkes, a pioneering prison officer, Laïla Diallo, a dancer and choreographer, and Jamie Fielden, who runs a project near Bath in which children from disadvantaged backgrounds get a taste of country life. They come at it from different angles but seem to be saying the same thing – find something you really want to do.The young audience is clearly impressed. There are no questions – that isn't the TED format – so the young people have to seek out the speakers at lunchtime.Eden, 16, is enjoying hearing from people who don't have "regular" jobs. "We get pressurised at school to think of our career path. We're not all here to be famous lawyers."Rachel, 17, adds: "It's really good to see people who haven't done the expected route, done A-levels, done a degree, got a job. They've followed different routes and ended up in a place where they are happy."Midge Ure, the rock star and co-organiser of Live Aid who is another speaker, says such events are all the more crucial at a time of austerity. "An 18-minute talk is not much time out of my life. If someone walks out of the room at the end of the day thinking 'Well, if he can do it, I can', that's not a bad thing to pass on. It's the antithesis of what I used to get at school. They used to tell me, 'You'll never amount to anything, boy.' "Tom, 16, leaves full of dreams. He has been encouraged to go and make a "bucket list" – an inventory of things to do in his life. "I want to try to understand what makes me happy and to try to follow that."His list will include trying to cross an ocean or a continent. He would like to skydive and "experience the world outside the one I know".The conference may lead to a few awkward discussions between teenagers and worried parents who might quite like their offspring to be top lawyers.Cornthwaite the adventurer has little time for such thoughts. "Parents worry. It's what they do, no matter if you work in an office or go on an adventure. You may as well do what you really want to."
Pretty much anyone who spent time hanging around amusement arcades in the 90s will have fond memories of Streetfighter 2, Capcom's brilliant, revelatory fighting game which introduced the world to such rich expressions as "hadouken" and "hundred-hand slap" and set a high standard for future entries to the genre to live up to.The Marvel vs Capcom series therefore takes a bit of a risk with its inclusion of Streetfighter characters. It immediately invites comparisons with SF2, and therefore runs the risk of trampling over a whole load of rose tinted memories should any Marvel vs Capcom game ever fail to be excellent.The good news is that the developers have yet to drop the ball, with a run of fanboy-pleasing fighting titles that pit various Marvel comic characters against (duh) various Capcom characters. It's pleasing to report that Ultimate Marvel vs Capcom is a blast.However, as you may be aware, it's not a new game. Rather, it's an update of Marvel v Capcom 3: Fate of Two Worlds, released in February this year.Fate of Two Worlds (the first M vs C title since 2000's Marvel vs Capcom 2: New Age of Heroes) was itself a solid, thoroughly enjoyable 2D fighter which was described by the Observer's Will Freeman as an "extravagant fusion of geek culture ... that guarantees countless hours of frantic excitement".And the same applies to this version – understandable, considering that it's basically a polish job that addresses some of the quibbles raised by players of FoTW, and adds some additional content originally intended as DLC.Twelve new characters have been added to the 36 featured in the earlier title. Capcom folk on display include Ryu and Chun Li from Streetfighter, Jill Valentine and Chris Redfield from Resident Evil, Viewtiful Joe and Dante from Devil May Cry. Holding up the Marvel end are the likes of Hulk, She-Hulk, Ghost Rider, Spider-Man, and many less famous names from the pantheon.Taking note of fan criticism, the developers have made successful efforts to rebalance the fighting, and some new levels and other elements have been introduced – including the ability to spectate on matches in online mode, improved rematch features and tweaks to leader board.Fighting takes place in tag team fashion. You select three characters who are pitted against three of the opposition in a single round. When one character runs out of life another steps in to battle until either all three are defeated, or all three of your opponents are.There's also the option to repeatedly switch between any of your characters that are still active, or, via one button press, have a character step in to perform an "assist" – a single signature move.Efforts have been made to appeal to noobs as well as seasoned gamers.There are two gaming settings – standard, in which special moves require some dextrous button-pressing, and simple, where the moves can be assigned to a single key.The visuals are great – as vibrant and colourful as you'd want from a game featuring comic characters – and overall it's tremendous fun to play. Perhaps not an essential upgrade if you already own Fate of Two Worlds, but nevertheless highly recommended.• Game reviewed on PS3
