Dialler scamI access Tesco Anytime via a separate phone number provided by Tesco so that no charges are routed to my normal BT phone. I was therefore horrified to see on my recent BT bill that I had been charged for &#163;94-worth of international calls, all to the same number I had never heard of, in a country called Sao Tome! When I rang BT, they referred me to my ISP. Tesco's response was that I had possibly been on the receiving end of an email which had introduced a rogue program on to my computer that led me unknowingly to access a high-value website which by-passed the Tesco dial-up. I also have Norton Anti-Virus and Firewall on my PC and run Ad-aware regularly, but am now nervous in case it happens again.Kathryn CroneThe calls have been made by a "porn dialler", a small program that could have arrived by email or been installed from a website. A dialler can turn off the sound, disconnect you from your ISP, then dial a high-priced service, though obviously it should not do this without your consent (www.pornsitedialers.com/dialerfaq.htm). Diallers may have legitimate uses but they are so profitable - earning scammers up to $1 a minute, for calls from the UK - that many sites resort to underhand methods to get them installed. For that reason, try to close unwanted popups and dialogue boxes by hitting Ctrl-W or Esc rather than clicking a "No" that could be interpreted as "Yes", and don't run unsolicited email attachments. As mentioned last week,SpywareBlaster, SpyBot Search &amp; Destroy, Ad-aware and a virus checker will deal with most parasites, but keep your eyes open for anything they might miss. If you use Internet Explorer, go to Tools | Internet Options | Security, click the Custom Level button, and make sure you do not download ActiveX controls without prompting. If you run Windows NT/2000/XP, surf from a user account, not the Administrator account.ICSTIS, the regulator for premium rate phone numbers, has a code of practice for the way things should work, such as giving you an on-screen clock and ending calls when the cost reaches &#163;20. It seems the rules have not been followed in this case. Call 0800-500212 or emailhelpline@icstis.org.ukto report the problem and get a reference number. On the bright side, it could have been worse. Rogue diallers can easily run up bills of $1,000.Shared cableMy flatmates have a Telewest broadband connection and a Mac G4 laptop. Can I set up a wireless connection to use broadband on my Dell laptop?Mark SellmanTelewest's website says it "does not support the use of its broadband connection as part of a home network". Even though it has just announced a &#163;35 Wi-Fi system using a Netgear access point, it insists that is "for one device". But you can install your own router. Segcom sells theDrayTek Vigor 2104Prouter, which it says is "designed to enable cable modem users (eg Telewest Blueyonder/NTL) to share their broadband connection between several computers" using cables. The Wi-Fi equivalent is theDrayTek Vigor 2200We.Networklabcovers the technical details of connecting a Linksys cable/DSL router on their website.Clip clearWindows XP Home doesn't seem to have a clipboard viewer, thus no way of clearing the clipboard when involved in image manipulation, causing it to hog loads of memory. Has Microsoft really done something so dumb, or am I missing something?Ron GravesMicrosoft's more sophisticated clipboard is part of the Office suite, and presumably all Microsoft staff use Office. However, copying a single letter will in effect clear the clipboard by replacing the image file with a character, or you could install one of the vast collection of free or shareware Windows clipboard replacements and extenders.AutoClipClearwill do what you need, but there are 11 pages of alternatives atwww.freedownloadscenter.com.Backchat&#183;In June, Adam Forrester needed to cool his overheating Toshiba notebook and among my suggestions was aBytecc coolersold in the US. Paul McGuire bought one and liked it so much he's now become Bytecc's distributor in the UK "and had several large boxes full of them shipped over!"&#183;Jennifer Howard wanted an online pinboard, and I suggestedOnline Home Basewould do the job. Marc Fest, OHB's creator, has stepped into the breach with "a new collaboration web service that I launched over the weekend". Designed for sharing notes, it is "self-explanatory, no-nonsense and fast-loading," he says. And it's free. (www.OurNotepad.com)
The world of wireless internet access (Wi-Fi for short) is definitely hotting up. Not only are more and more homes and offices sprouting 802.11b 11Mbps (and now, in our office as an example, 802.11g 54Mbps) wireless Ethernet connections, they are in an increasing number of public locations.There are already more than 1,000 so-called hotspots in Europe and, according to the hi-tech market research company IDC, this could grow to more than 32,000 by 2007, generating revenues of $1.4bn.All this activity means that a great deal of corporate and personal data is flying through the air. I keep seeing magazine articles and newspaper stories encouraging us all to turn on our WEP   (wired equivalency protocol) and secure our networks. But why?We, as a typical small business, have an open Wi-Fi network in our office. This makes life easy for customers, suppliers or business partners who come to our office. Maybe the people downstairs even connect through it sometimes. Who cares?Someone who connects on our network cannot access our servers because they are on the other side of a firewall. Yes, of course we could snoop on all the traffic and collect top-secret emails ("are you going to the pub, or what?") but that's already true.If you don't want people to read your email, then buy PGP (Pretty Good Privacy), which is what we use for sensitive or client-confidential mail.If we did encrypt the network, this would just lead to pointless hassle as valued customers struggled to get their email while waiting in reception.Plus, we would have to change the password from time to time. Is there any real need to make wireless access secure? Security is an end-to-end problem that needs end-to-end solutions (ie, secure email and secure web access in most cases).Think of the benefits if everyone was this relaxed. If I leave my Wi-Fi open, my next door neighbour might be able to access the internet on his patio using my network.If my neighbour leaves his Wi-Fi open, we might be able to access the internet in our kitchen, which currently has very poor reception from the access point in my study on the other side of the house.Someone lost on our road would   find he could pull over in his car, flip open the laptop and get access to an online map or route-finding service.Capacity planning, not security, would be the key issue in Wi-Fi design and deployment.I'm not sure security is that much of a problem in these cases. My neighbour can't access any of the machines in my house because he doesn't know the passwords - which will one day be replaced by proper digital IDs - and nor can the woman in the car.Of course, my neighbour might decide to launch a concentrated denial of service attack on my wireless local area network, but I have a strong suspicion that I'd figure out who it was without too much trouble.
We Brits are snooty about smart cards. We happily use them in our wallets and mobile phones, but pretend we don't: we still sign debit-card slips, for example. We certainly don't see smart cards performing any societal function. That would be too continental, like civilised lunches and punctual trains.But now the government has unveiled a vision for the technology, in a consultation document published by the office of the e-envoy. It makes a case for the government to take a lead in ensuring that smartcard systems work with, rather than against, each other.The proposals make sense. At the very least, they will reduce the number of cards in our wallets. At best, they will create a national authentication scheme that side-steps the row over national identity cards.After 20 years of dithering, why the sudden enthusiasm? For the e-envoy, the galvanising factor is the need to encourage more people to use e-government. Although only about a fifth of the government's 500-odd services require users to prove who they are, these tend to be high volume, high frequency transactions, such as claiming benefits. Smart cards, validated by Pin or biometrics, are the only realistic way to authenticate citizens' identity remotely.The consultation finds four barriers to smartcard services taking off:&#183;A lack of open standards;&#183;proving the case for cards carrying more than one application;&#183;worries about data protection;&#183;ensuring that the person presenting the card really is the card-holder.The e-envoy's solution is to standardise technology. This would involve commercial schemes adopting the e-government interoperability framework (e-Gif), a set of rules for systems to interoperate. Cards built to these standards would create a critical mass of users and functions.Local councils already issue multi-purpose smart cards for functions such as membership of libraries and swimming pools and to enable children to claim free school meals without stigma. In north-east England, neighbouring authorities are running a joint scheme to issue cards to 3 million citizens. One of its aims is to foster a sense of community. These local   schemes badly need national standards.The e-envoy's proposals won't solve everything. Although the e-Gif is supposed to be based on open industry standards, it is not itself an international standard. Also, the proposals rely on the hope that multi-purpose smart cards can be separated from the ID card debate. The consultation paper says optimistically that "smart card schemes in the UK may wish to look beyond ID as a core function". That won't save it from a roasting from the usual suspects.The consultation closes on October 29. Once we have this issue out of the way, perhaps we can get on with organising some languid lunches and non-languid trains.&#183;Smart Cards: Enabling e-Government
~SearchOne of the problems withGoogleis that you need to know the right words to search on, even if it's as simple as using vacation instead of holiday. In many cases, you can now get better results by asking Google to search for a cluster of synonyms, simply by putting a tilde in front of the search word. Searching for ~food, for example, will also find pages that contain the words cooking, cuisine, nutrition, recipe and restaurant. There don't seem to be any disadvantages, either: if a word has no synonyms assigned (eg sex), you get the same result as searching without the tilde.Pirate gamesYo ho ho, the massively multiplayerPuzzle Pirateshas reached the beta test stage. It is a sociable game that focuses, as you might guess, on solving puzzles. Windows and Linux are supported, with Mac OS X to follow.Futures buyPrediction is difficult, especially about the future. However, one way to predict what will happen is to open a futures market where people can "vote" - or bet on - events by buying and selling stocks. Given the apparent unpredictability of the current US government, a "consortium of computer scientists, political scientists and sociologists" is planning to open a futures market on what the world's only superpower will do next. The idea follows a similar plan by the Pentagon's Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa) to launch a policy analysis market - a small-stakes betting shop for speculation on acts of terrorism and war - which was rapidly cancelled. However, theAmerican Action Marketwill take up that idea with "a market in the future of the Middle East". Assuming it is not just an MIT spoof, you can register ahead of the start of trading on October 1.Safety checkWhat does your deodorant contain, and are any of the ingredients potentially harmful? What about the stuff you use in the garden or for car care? The US government has put the information about US products online in theHousehold Products Database. It indexes a vast number of brand names from ABIN Primer &amp; Sealer to Zymol Natural Car Polish, with manufacturer and safety information. You can also find out which products have certain ingredients then follow a link to any information in the Toxnet database. It would, of course, be much better to have the same information about products sold in the UK. However, you can at least read about US products that may have the same or very similar ingredients.Anorak timeIf you watch re-runs of old science fiction shows such as Lexx, Andromeda, Red Dwarf and Babylon 5, then you are a very sad person indeed. However, you are not alone, and there's a wonderful site about these and other geek favourites, including Buffy and The Prisoner, created bySadGeezerand NewKate from Preston, England. You can also take "purity tests" to confirm your in-depth knowledge of the major shows. For the even larger number more committed to Star Trek, there isThe Great Link.BoycottThe Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), which is preparing to sue thousands of downloaders in the US, could find itself the victim of a grass-roots boycott. TheBoycott-RIAA sitecarries basic news and info, and has forums for debate, plus useful links.The WordNow you can search God's words - as represented by 11 Upanishads, the Holy Tanakh, New Testament and Koran - using a search engine that, visually, bears more than a little resemblance to Google. And you can search all the texts at once, since all the versions are offered as English translations.atomicsoftware.com/wordSix of the bestFantasy footballThe originalThe TelegraphYahoo SportsThe TimesBBC Fantasy LeagueFISONew &amp; notedGoogle News Alerts (beta)Guide to GooglePopout Prism browser(requires Windows and  Java 1.3)
Tubular ballsMike Oldfield needs an education on today's music practices if he wishes to stick to his statements regarding online music file downloads without being laughed at (Talk time, July 31).The reason music sales are down is that a lot of music released is garbage. It's the 80s all over again, where a band releases an album based on the strength of a single catchy song.People are now able to make more informed decisions : if a track gets saturation airplay, and someone likes that song, that person can now download a few tracks from the album. If all the album has going for it is one song, why should anyone pay full album price? But if the band makes an album with a hit, and I download three random tracks of the same quality, I am going to buy that album.Oldfield's lack of knowledge in computer and music issues also shines throughwhen he states: "They can still copy it with analogue. It just won't copy digitally. It has only caused a couple of comments... because someone can't copy it and pirate it." He is ignoring instances of Tubular Bells 2003 destroying the CD-Roms of people who legitimately purchased the album. Why are we buying this album if it's unusable?G CurtisVictoria, British ColumbiaADSL by the monthIn his search for a decent ADSL provider, Konrad Borowski might consider Eclipse. (Feedback, August 7). They require only a one-month contract, they are not expensive and there is always a friendly voice on the   end of the phone. I have been with them since the end of last year and have not experienced any problems.John PeacheyDorking, SurreyCost of QuickenJack says the the most popular personal accounts programs are Money and Quicken. However, Quicken can not be described as a personal account since it changed to rental mode.From 1998 to 2003, Quicken cost me &#163;50. With the current rental model QuickenXG, this has risen to 12x5x&#163;5 or &#163;300. Such a price hike is usurous for a personal accounts program, though it may be acceptable for a business package.Richard MuharMac accountingDont forget Mac users: lots of us need an accounting package. I useBottom Linewhich does everything I need - invoices, expenditure control, profit and loss, balance sheet etc. Still &#163;99+ VAT according to the website.Dave EdwardsBirminghamVoting solutionAs shown by last week's Public Domain, nearly all the discussion about how to increase the appallingly low turnout at elections has centred on how to make voting easier. Why not try making it more worthwhile? If we used one of the better forms of proportional representation - preferably STV - there would be no safe seats and no "wasted" votes.Dr Edward GibsonNorwichPaying the piperYour article, Making the web pay, August 7, was very informative. There is another mircropayment site with a macro self-publishing model you should write about.Check outwww.redpaper.com. I have used the site to publish articles on niche subjects and, surprisingly, people are buying them. Most interesting is the minimal per cent the site takes for providing the forum. The publisher retains the copyright and 94% of the price of the material.Dave KaufmanRight way upI am a keen supporter of Online and I was disappointed with the recent "relegation" of the section to the back of the Life supplement. Instead of turning it left to right, turn it over from top to bottom. Online then becomes the front page and is read in the normal way and Life and Online are both happy. I reserve the rights on this idea, so make it worth my while, a lifetime supply of your estimable paper?James Wishart(Guardian reader since 1957)UnhackableI had to laugh at the conclusion to Jack Schofield's article on SCO. Writing about its efforts to levy a $699 fee, he says, "companies using Linux are at... risk of being made to pay for what some teenage hackers might have got up to in their bedrooms".That would make sense if the people in question were privy to the Unix System V source code latterly licensed by SCO. But if such "trade secrets" were in general circulation, then it would be difficult to claim "reasonable efforts" had been made to enforce them. As Eric S Raymond argues, that would nullify the grounds for SCO's case against Linux, its users and developers.Michael CarrPrescotSchrodinger's coolAll my life I have held the belief that the fridge light goes out when the door is shut, but now? A web cam in a fridge, will the light be on? Schrodinger will be turning in his grave, and as for his cat...David EavesWarrington
Buy now for lessAnalyst firm Butler Group says that organisations should invest in IT now, while prices are low. Skills are around 40% cheaper than in 2001, with web-related expertise particularly discounted, and enterprise application integration software, used to get programs to work together, is 70% cheaper. Tim Jennings, research director at Butler Group, says that those buying now will have an edge, as few other organisations will have the latest software. He adds that content management software for running web-sites - 60% cheaper than in 2001 - is a popular choice, and business intelligence software (down 55%), used for analysing business data, can help provide a competitive edge.Real open sourceRealNetworks last week announced an open source media player, which will allow Linux, Unix and Solaris users the access to media files currently available only to Windows and Mac users, through Real's free - although not open source - RealOne player. The software, the first release of which is planned for the last three months of this year, will be developed by members of theHelix development community, set up by Real. The move represents a multiformat approach to media files, unlike that taken by Real's major competitor, Microsoft. Real also said it will give $75,000 (&#163;46,000) in grants to assist developments in digital media.Grid ironOracle is planning to enter the grid computing arena next year with a new release of its Oracle 10G database, which will be unveiled at next month'sOracleWorld conferencein San Francisco. For some time, the database has been available across clustered servers to offer resilience and allow aggregation of processing power. Grid capabilities will spread the cluster across a corporate network, uniting server groups and storage arrays into a single, virtual resource. Oracle 10G will allow several databases to be held within the same grid so that processing power can be reallocated to handle spikes in demand, such as the preparation of financial reports at the end of each month.Stalking JavaMicrosoft has released its Indigo development software for simpler web service creation to select beta testers. The   Indigo project, announced two years ago, is designed to be a "Java killer" by burying commonly used web services components into the next generation .Net Framework. Programmers will still have to write service-specific elements of the code, but the bulk of the application will call ready-made routines contained within the framework. Microsoft is expected to reveal more details about Indigo at itsProfessional Developers Conferencein Los Angeles in October.Small ventureChartered Semiconductor, IBM and Infineon Technologies are jointly to develop 65 nanometre (nm) chips. The move is designed to make up ground on Intel, which plans to make its own 65nm technology available in 2005. Chips in development have internal circuit paths separated by 90nm, 1,000 times thinner than human hair, and the next generation will reduce the chip surface by a third. The power requirements will also be lower, but the production process will require expensive new tools and techniques. Chartered has been developing a manufacturing process designed to scale from 90nm down to 45nm. Development will take place at IBM's New York labs.www.ibm.com/chips/news/2003/0806_foundry.htmlSurvival skillsEmployers in the south-east are expecting more than 24,000 IT job losses over the next year, according to a report from E-skills UK, the sector skills council for IT, telecoms and contact centres. In the rest of the country, low growth of up to 4% is expected. TheE-skills Regional Gap-UK reportsays most employers (57%) feel their staff require more skills, especially in programming and operating system management. Remedial action to keep the skills in line with needs will require stronger links between employers and educators to ensure that course content turns out graduates who are more "workplace ready", the report concludes.Mail stressMore than a third of IT staff think that losing access to email for a week would be "more traumatic than events such as a car accident or getting a divorce", according to The Global E-Mail Burden, an international survey by Dynamic Markets, sponsored byVeritas, a storage software provider. The survey also found that email is now so important to businesses that 68% of companies say users get irate after as little as 30 minutes without access. If the system is down for 24 hours, almost a fifth of IT managers reckon their jobs would be on the line. The survey covered 850 IT managers in companies that employ more than 500 staff, including 100 each in the UK and the US.
Web technologies are everywhere. At home and in the office, more and more applications use web browsers and HTML instead of (or as part of) more traditional user interfaces. But the web isn't the ideal way to interact with applications. Designed to deliver documents, web applications spread themselves across chains of pages, and can be difficult to navigate - and harder to keep track of what you're actually doing.Web applications have become increasingly complex. Not only are users looking for more interactivity, they also need to be able to work on and offline. Web architectures also make it difficult for web applications to monitor changes and deliver alerts and changes, and for applications to connect to each other.Companies such as Macromedia and Microsoft are working on tools to solve these problems, tools that still use web technologies to work with servers, but behave much more like traditional desktop applications than a browser. Known as smart clients, or rich web clients, these build on familiar technologies such as Flash or Windows Forms, as well as using web services and XML.We're all familiar with Flash, though probably not as an application environment. Adverts and intro animations have given Flash a bad name while it has been evolving from a simple vector animation tool into a complex application environment. Now it includes a scripting language, standard graphical components and XML support. It can even store data on your PC. Other tools link it to Java and .Net web services. But despite the demonstrations of hotel and car hire booking systems, it is yet to fulfil its promise as an alternate user interface for web applications.Flash is still limited to the browser. In March, Macromedia announced it was working on a new technology that would turn Flash into a tool for delivering rich applications to end-user desktops. Central is due to be launched by the end of the autumn. It is a two-part system: a set of development tools and a simple desktop application you use to find and install (and purchase) new applications.Macromedia is running a large beta programme, with more than 4,500 developers. Leah Hickman, the market development director for Central, says Macromedia is using the beta to not just test the tools, but also to refine the business model that   it intends to build around Central.Central is going to give Macromedia a big challenge. Best known for its design and development tools, it now has to appeal to a new audience as well as its traditional constituency of developers. Central users may be using it at home, in a small business or in an enterprise, and they all have different demands.Macromedia is learning a lot with the Central beta, lessons that apply to any company thinking about the next generation of rich internet clients. Developers need a platform that is rich and easy to work with, so they can quickly respond to user demands. Macromedia believes it will need templates and design patterns to help it reuse code, and to give end users consistency, so that Central applications will work the same way no matter where they have been developed.One key element of Central is the business model, which aims to make it easy for users to find and buy applications. Macromedia will provide developers with a sales and distribution environment, built into the Central application. The application finder shows a listing of all third party applications, with "try and buy" licences. While Macromedia will manage transactions, it will also take a cut of any fees. Macromedia sees this as building a marketplace, but it is also going to be a big challenge for them - moving users from free web applications to a new world where smart clients cost real money.What sort of applications are people building? One thing Macromedia has discovered from the beta is that developers are using Central to provide front ends for web services, such as applications to give you weather information, or help you find restaurants. You don't need to build a new back-end application, as long as you can deliver XML to Central.Macromedia isn't alone. Microsoft has seen the value of richer clients for web applications, especially on mobile devices. The recent release of the latest version of the Pocket PC platform adds the .Net compact framework, making it easier for developers to produce smart clients that take advantage of web services. The SQL CE database will also help with building applications that can work on and offline. Office 2003's "smart documents" are a sign of things to come - building smart clients into everyday productivity tools.Smart clients are an important part of the future of the web and the office. Macintosh users can get a taste with Konfabulator. The rest will need to wait for Microsoft's smart clients, and for Macromedia to release Central. It will be an interesting few years for web application developers, as smart clients compete for eyeballs with browsers. But as web services become more important, it's likely that smart clients will become a standard method of delivering information.LinksKonfabulatorMacromedia CentralMicrosoft Smart Clients
After sifting through more than 40,000 pages of documents, the team charged with giving the NHS a &#163;2.3 billion IT upgrade this week announced which firms had been shortlisted for the biggest jobs. The 11 consortia, whittled down from 31, go into a final round to decide who will be awarded contracts to create an online repository of information about every NHS patient in England.The man in charge of the national IT scheme, Richard Granger, said the contracts would be placed in record time. However, a group of NHS IT experts has expressed considerable concern about the process.The firms are chasing two types of contract. The first is to run the national data spine, a repository of essential clinical information about every NHS patient. Three firms are in the running: BT, IBM and Lockheed Martin. The winner will be announced at the end of October.Consortia will also be picked to modernise and standardise systems across one of five geographical regions. The first two regions, London and Northeast England, will place contracts with their "local service provider" at the end of October; the remaining three will follow by the end of the year.The three national bidders are on the shortlist for these contracts, along with eight consortia headed by firms such as management consultancy Accenture, IT services giants EDS and SchlumbergerSema, and the services firm Jarvis. Isoft, a UK-based specialist healthcare software firm, which is in the process of merging with rival Torex, is understood to be working   with most of the short-listed consortia.Notable losers appear to be Oracle, which had bid for the spine contract, and McKesson, a US-based healthcare corporation which today is the third largest supplier of hospital systems to the NHS. Both firms declined to comment.Granger, hired at a record &#163;250,000 salary last year, said he was very pleased by the quality of the bids. The difficult parts, however, are still to come. Apart from picking the   final winners, and fighting any challenges by aggrieved losers, the programme still has to win support in three key areas.To begin with, NHS managers see their independence - and sometimes their jobs - under threat from the new nationally run contracts. One fear is that local innovation will be crushed: several NHS trusts are already doing locally much of what the new programme promises nationally. Lancashire ambulance service, for example, is already collecting data for electronic patient records on handheld computers at the scene of emergencies.This week, the British Computer Society (BCS) and Assist, the NHS IT staff association, warned against "attempting to establish a monopolistic solution across the loosely federated NHS".It said that Granger's team needs to give more attention to telling the NHS what it is doing and that the NHS "needs a balance between organic evolution and forced growth in its informatics".Concern is also mounting about the amount of personally sensitive information that will be available on the spine. This will contain summaries of all treatment received by every individual in the country. Professor Peter Hutton, chair of the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges, said the information would be shared only with the patient's consent: "Individuals will be consulted far, far more than ever in the past about what information they wish to be stored about them."Another big question is whether hospital doctors, who still usually write their notes, will use the new systems. The BCS/Assist statement said that doctors needed to be educated. "Few health informatics systems will perform up to their promise unless clinical involvement is enhanced and integral to day-to-day working."Professor Hutton said doctors would notice the benefits of the new systems from the end of this year, but admitted that many are still sceptical. "We have to go through an educational programme that will, to a certain extent, be about winning hearts and minds. Initially, we will try to encourage usage on a voluntary basis."Granger said that most doctors would be clamouring to use the new IT. But, in the long term, doctors would either have to like it or leave. "Usage of any system is always voluntary, in that if you don't want do do it, you don't have to be part of the greater whole."&#183;www.doh.gov.uk/ipu/programme
GadgetsRio fights backRio, one of the first companies to launch an MP3  player, is back with a range of seven new models,  including a challenger to the Apple iPod - the Rio  Karma. A cigarette pack-sized player, the Karma has  20GB of storage and comes with a USB 2.0  connecting cable. Its main advantage over the iPod is  its accompanying cradle, which features an Ethernet  connection to enable it to be integrated with a wired or  wireless home network. Unlike the iPod, it can record directly from a CD/hi-fi  and includes support for Ogg Vorbis, the open  source-based music format. Battery life is rated at 15  hours - twice that of its rival. It is expected to sell for  around £250. Also from Rio is the Nitrus, with a tiny hard disk  (around the size of a 10p coin) capable of storing  1.5GB of music. Slightly larger than a matchbox, the  player also features a USB 2.0 socket and will retail for  around £185. Another rival for the iPod has just arrived. The Ministry  of Sound MOS MP028 hard disk 20GB MP3 player (available fromArgos) might be larger and less elegant than the iPod, but it  can record directly from a CD/hi-fi system. At £200, it  retails for £50 less than the iPod.CamcordersPocket-sizedSonyhas unveiled what it is billing as the world's  smallest camcorder. Apparently small enough to fit  into a shirt pocket, the DCR-IP1 uses Sony's tiny  digital MicroMV cassettes, a format introduced by  Sony in 2000 which some insiders predicted would  soon be shelved. All the main parts of the camcorder  have been streamlined, including its lens, mechanical  deck and LCD panel. The DCR-IP1 includes a one  megapixel CCD, 10x optical and 120x digi tal zooms, a  Memory Stick Duo slot and a USB terminal. Expect to  see it in the UK in November for around £1,200.Canon fireCanon has announced a Mini-DV camcorder with a  "super slim, visionary design". The MVX10i has a 2.2  megapixel CCD and works as both a still and a video  camera.It wil appear next month, accompanied by a  2.2 megapixel DV camcorder, the MVX3i, that is  roughly twice the size. Both will take MMC and SD  storage cards. Finally, Canon plans to introduce a  film-capable contact image sensor (CIS) scanner, the  CanoScan LiDE80. This features automatic retouching  technology and is only 38mm thick.Mobile PhonesNokia targets the game youngNokia's 3300 multimedia phone springs from the company's policy of producing special models for different segments of the market. This one is for young people who like gaming and listening to music and the radio but only want to carry one bit of kit. The only major function it lacks is a camera. Otherwise, it works well. Music tracks are easily transferred via Nokia audio manager from a CD-Rom (60 to 90 minutes worth): and the phone's controls lend themselves well to games - though the tiny letters make texting a sweat. The 3300 is heavier (125g) than many cheaper models but it still feels like a phone and has most of the features we take for granted such as GPRS internet connectivity, recorder, polyphonic ringtones, dual band, infra-red (but no Bluetooth), picture gallery, MMS and so on. Intrepid gamers may be tempted to wait for the N-Gage but those wanting a phone to do most things except take pictures will find this very tempting. Prices range from &#163;29.99 to &#163;129.99 depending on monthly contract.Best 3G yet?UK 3G phone network 3will extend its range of  mobiles by launching its most advanced handsets to  date. TheMotorolaA920 is a triband model with  integrated camera, video and audio player and full  messaging facilities. Unlike 3's current Motorola  handset, the A830, it is compatible with the network's  video-calling service. It also boasts GPS to access  location-based services, although 3 has not yet  announced what it will offer. The AG20, which uses the  Symbian operating system, is not unlike Sony  Ericsson's P800 in that it has a large touch screen.  Unlike its rival, though, the A920 doesn't sport a  keypad. It is set to go on sale next month. Due in  stores in the next couple of weeks is the Motorola  A835. A more advanced version of the A830, its main  enhancements are its compatibility with 3's  video-calling service and integrated camera. Also  featured are video/music/games downloads and  Bluetooth.HardwareTop-end telliesInnovative Danish companyKiSS Technologyhas  announced a range of products it intends to show at  the IFA exhibition in Berlin at the end of this month.  Among the devices due on sale in the UK by the end of  the year is a 42in plasma screen that includes an  integrated DVD player and a wireless Ethernet  connection to access the internet and content from a  PC. Also on display will be the DP-1000, a slimline  DVD player compatible with DivX movie files and the  DP-508, a DVD player with an 80GB hard disk and the  ability to access music, video and photo files stored on  a PC. Completing the range, the DP- 558 has all the  508's functionality plus an integrated TV tuner.Media CenterAlmost a year after it was launched in the US,  Microsoft is bringing theMedia Centeredition of its  Windows XP operating system to the UK. Due to debut  on a series of PCs from manufacturers including  Evesham Technology, Packard Bell and Time, the  Media Center system allows the computer's digital  entertainment content to be operated via a remote  control. Users can access live TV (via an analogue  tuner), record and play back videos stored on the PC's  hard disk, and play DVDs, digital music and video at  the touch of a button. Users will also be able to  discover what is on TV via a free programme guide. The  first PCs with the software should be on sale with the  next couple of months.Worm alertIt's becoming an annual occurence: ever since the  Great Code Red scare of June and August 2001, we've  had a virus scare in the summer. This year's is the  fast-spreading MSBlast worm, which exploits a  vulnerability in versions of Microsoft Windows NT, 2000  and XP. It's certainly fast-moving: S-Secure, a Finnish  security company, says it took only five minutes for an  unprotected PC they left outside their firewall to be  infected on Tuesday morning, and a matter of seconds  when they tried again later that afternoon. But security  experts say the worm has flaws, which should alert  system administrators and computer owners that their  machine is under attack. Make sure your system is up  to date before you get attacked by using the Windows  Update service or installing the patch fromhttp://masl.to/?Z23632F85.BroadbandSurf wirelesslySubscribers toTelewest's cable broadband internet  service can now buy a self-installation pack that  enables them to surf the web wirelessly. Retailing for  £35, the kit combines a Netgear wireless access point  with the cable modem embedded in the company's  digital set-top box. Users place the wireless card in  their PC or laptop and can surf the net at up to 150  metres from the digital box. The system is only  configured for one PC and will not create a wireless  home network. It is compatible with all Telewest's  512Kbps and 1Mbps broadband packages.Stat of the weekWhat's in your inbox?Jupiter Research has found that - surprise, surprise -
the amount of spam we're getting has surged in the
past year (with the biggest increase in "health" spam).
Relative to this huge increase, email from other
sources has fallen.
Why do Mac users stay so loyal?I think it must be masochism. That and that fact that, until recently, computers were all characterless beige boxes and, right now, they are either still beige boxes or sad, belated Mac clones.Is the G5 taking your fancy at all?No. I use a black PowerBook G3, which I still think is the best-looking laptop ever. The current Mac laptops look like something you're going to peel apart and find a slice of Dairylea inside.How are your HTML skills?I tend to stay safe within the bounds ofDreamweaver. Copying and pasting is about as close to HTML coding as I come.Do you think a lot of the net is over-designed?Oh yes. I always skip the opening display of done-one-rainy-Wednesday-afternoon graphics, if I possibly can. They're not going to tell you anything, are they? Apart from what a thwarted work life their designer leads. My site is proudly Flash-free!Spellchecker and wordcount?They're instruments of Satan. If you don't know how to spell a word, you don't really know it; if you don't know it, you shouldn't use it. It should make a difference to you, whether it has i before e or vice versa. I teach creative writing classes, and I always warn the students off Wordcount. It's much better to write a page a day, whether it's a solid paragraph of prose or a narrow band of exclamatory dialogue.Do U txt?Yes - I'm fascinated by predictive spelling software. The ways the words build up make little poems: "I - He - Gel - Hell - Hello" or "O - On - Non - None - Money". As far as I can tell, picture messaging is only necessary if you want to get pissed on holiday and e-moon your mates back home.Ebooks?Adventures in Capitalism, Corpsing, deadkidsongs and Exhibitionism have all been done as ebooks. With all of them, I've tried to include some "extras" - in the story collections there are quite a few stories not published elsewhere. I did think about writing an ebook-only text, but I think something drastic needs to happen with the technology to make it as loveable as a block of wood pulp.Blogs?Having just written Finding Myself in diary form, I'm looking to read things that are a bit less bitty than weblogs. I did download the software to do my own, but then realised I didn't want to tell people about what I do, day by day. Instead, when I do something vaguely interesting - like seeing Mandelson's last appearance as a front bencher - I write it up as an "editorial" and post it on my website.Whose email address would you like?Henry James. He wrote a short story called The Death of the Lion, about contacting those you admire. His conclusion was, if you really loved a person's work, you should honour them by leaving them alone to get on with it. I would love to have his address just so I didn't use it.LinksVisit:www.tobylitt.comToby Litt's ebookmarkswww.findagrave.comwww.stewarthomesociety.orgwww.resonancefm.com&#183;Toby Litt's new book Finding Myself is out now.
Every business is different; when you're different in the right ways it gives your business a competitive advantage, a unique feature that makes customers come to you rather than go to any other company. So should you really be using the same program as your competitors?Custom software isn't reserved for enterprises with their own development teams. There are many consultants and software development houses that will build you a program from scratch or put together a custom solution based on big-name systems such as Oracle. Steering a middle course - building your own bespoke solution by combining and customising standard components - can be the way to avoid costly development problems.There's a temptation - especially for very small businesses - to design the applications you run your business on yourself. After all, no one knows the business better than you do, so you can put in exactly the features you need. Usually these applications are built on top of a database such as Access or FileMaker.FileMaker has the advantage of being particularly simple to get started with; you can even import an Excel spreadsheet with the information you want to turn into your database and FileMaker builds the structure for you. But it has a powerful scripting language for more advanced features.Steven Bailey built the practice management system he uses to run his Harley Street medical practice in FileMaker himself because not only could he get the system that suited him without paying for the development, but he has stayed in control of further developments. "I am still tweaking and expanding our practice management system three years on. To have to depend on a third party for this would introduce delays, and complications would be unacceptable for our business."Using a database as the basis of a custom application you pay someone else to build for you should also save time and money. It also makes it a little easier to go elsewhere to get the system upgraded or maintained; the appeal of larger suppliers is that you know they are going to be around in five years' time.Either way, while it makes sense to start with the basics and fine-tune the system in the light of experience, beware of adding features just because you can build it yourself. After a few years, you may have a comprehensive system of custom software that no one outside your company has any experience with, so any new employees need training from scratch. The data in a custom system can be harder to access to use elsewhere in your business and you are less likely to be compatible with whatever your partners and suppliers are using.Plus, re-inventing the wheel by writing your own cash accounting and payroll systems isn't likely to be good use of your time and talents - unless you are actually in business to develop accounting software.If your custom system starts growing too complicated, Tony Speakman of FileMaker suggests you stop and see whether you would be better off buying standard packages and spending your time integrating them with the functions where you really do need a custom solution. This is where XML and web services can greatly simplify things.Very few businesses need everything customised, and when there are mature applications there's not much you can't do with off-the-shelf software as long as it's extensible. Peter Robertshaw of SAP suggests that with the number of industries SAP's software covers, you can use the expertise it is based on to give you standard best business practice and customise your system by taking the existing standard options, choosing preconfigured options to suit your business. "Why would you not want to take a standard from the leaders in the field? The place to customise is where the business's processes really make a difference to the business, where they're on the cutting edge."Chris Baker, of Oracle, goes even further, suggesting that not only does developing a custom solution cost you time and money but it can carry on costing you - in maintenance and upgrades, or if you can't take advantage of the economies of scale a hosted solution can offer.The danger is, as Eddie Short of Cap Gemini Ernst &amp; Young puts it, "You end up with the SAP or the Oracle view of how to run your business rather than your view of how you should run your business." The key is to look at how the information you are working with affects your business and make sure the way it flows around the business gives you what you need. "Take an architectural view and do the planning: look at what services the business needs and find what fits, whether that's off-the-shelf or custom."If what you need turns out to be a desktop application for working with information from fairly standard back-office systems, Microsoft's InfoPath software gives you a new way of putting the pieces together without creating a custom application. Designing InfoPath forms is like building a web page; you drop in components such as tables and text boxes, but you connect those to databases that fill in the information automatically.You can use an InfoPath form to view information from multiple back end applications, or to update them from a friendly front end. The form's XML scheme can include the rules you need to make sure the data goes into the system in the right format.And if the same data needs to go in an expense report, a sales report and a CRM package, you can update all of them from the same InfoPath form by using a web service to send the details to each back-end system in turn.Another alternative is building smart documents - managed code linked to a specific document in Word or Excel 2003 so you can use that as the interface to other systems for viewing or filling in data. Microsoft's David Bennie says you won't have to do all the work to develop smart documents yourself: Microsoft is working with large CRM vendors to create a free tool for using Word as a front end for CRM software. There are also 20 ISVs (independent software vendors) developing solutions for Office 2003, from smart document solutions to integrating InfoPath with Siebel.Whatever approach you take to getting software that fits your business, make sure you're only paying to be different where it actually makes a difference and not just for the sake of it. Doing that analysis can lead you to ask some fundamental questions about your business and what makes it unique. Robertshaw thinks it's healthy when "the focus moves away from software into the organisation of the business and how the business processes are managed, into people and change management".Doug Coombs of FileNet agrees: "Perversely enough, the majority of external help a company usually requires surrounds business consultancy rather than technical consultancy. It is very hard for a company to be objective about how it should process its work. That is where outside help can add the most value. Clear business case reasoning and logic is the biggest challenge, not technology."
It was a striking combination of the old and the new. The old: a huge hot air balloon, looming high above the Ashton Court estate in Bristol last weekend. The new: the Intel branding on the side of the balloon, and the wireless internet-equipped laptops the passengers were toting.The giant chipmaker was inviting observers to climb aboard and witness a technology it is hoping will take off under its own steam in the next few months. In the balloon's basket, without the aid of wires, the passengers could surf the net at broadband speeds.It was all quite a wheeze, but one that Intel is betting big money on: the company is spending $300m (£187m) to persuade us that Wi-Fi - or wireless fidelity - internet access is the Next Big Thing, rather than a lot of, well, hot air. As part of their promotional effort they have embarked on a mammoth tour of the UK which has already taken in London, and continues at the Edinburgh International Festival this week.At the centre of the fuss are the Centrino chips now being sold by Intel. They allow laptop users to log on to Wi-Fi networks, which beam out from base stations that broadcast and receive computer data wirelessly. These base stations - or hotspots - are physically connected to the internet by old-fashioned wires, completing the connection.In practice, it means we can flip open our Centrino laptop (or any recent laptop from Apple, which pioneered consumer use of Wi-Fi) and log on over a latte in Starbucks, or have a surf while we wait for a plane, without fiddling with wires. A recent edition of this paper's G2 section was produced on Brighton beach, using Wi-Fi-equipped laptops and hotspots provided by the Brighton Pier-to-Pier project. We only need to be within around 100 metres of the base station to get a signal.The possibilities, say the wireless pioneers, are near endless, freeing us from the desk-bound tyranny of fixed internet connections. For professionals, those people likely to buy Wi-Fi first, "the time is now", says Andy Greenhalgh, Intel's marketing director for mobile solutions in Europe."&#91;Wi-Fi&#93; gives you the ability to get in control of your life. I have had wireless laptops for about two and a half years now, and I feel I don't have to wait until I'm back in the office &#91;to deal with&#93; those 400 emails. I can nibble away at them when I'm in the airport, or when I'm in the taxi coming back from Heathrow. And when I get home, I've got a life again. It's stress relief."Big money is being spent to make this dream a reality. As well as Intel's $300m, thousands of Wi-Fi hotspots are being rolled out by established names sucha s BT and T-Mobile, as well as lesser-known players like The Cloud and Broadreach Networks. They plan to make their money charging users to get online via their networks.But, just months into this wireless revolution, alarm bells are already ringing. Critics say the technology is not going to be seized upon by computer users in the way the marketers hope. And they say the "build it and they will come" attitude of the new Wi-Fi networks is commercial suicide, especially when there are only 120,000 hotspot users in the whole of Europe.One of the sternest critics of the Wi-Fi boom has been Lars Godell, a telecoms analyst at Forrester Research. In a recent research note, he said of some players: "It's as if the dotcom boom and bust never happened _ this bubble seems ready to burst."Speaking this week, Godell remains sceptical about the appeal of lattes with broadband on the side. In short, he sees too many hotspots chasing too few users. "The usage rates of wireless Lan have been appallingly low," he says. He cites the case of Amsterdam's Schiphol airport, through which 41m passengers pass every year, but where there are only a dozen Wi-Fi hotspot users a day. Other hotspot operators confirm, in private, that they see similarly low usage numbers.  Allied to that, Godell also doubts users' willingness to pay large amounts to join Wi-Fi networks - from £5.50 an hour with T-Mobile to £85 a month for unlimited access to BT's network of hotspots.So, if we buy a Wi-Fi equipped laptop this autumn, could its wireless abilities suddenly become useless outside the home or office, as the companies behind the hotspots we plan to use suddenly start going out of business? The operators insist their business plans are sound."I have a nice dependable business that will run along well and will still be here in years to come," says George Polk, managing director of The Cloud. The Cloud plans to build the UK's largest network of Wi-Fi hotspots on top of broadband lines already installed for pub and club entertainment services, thereby cutting its costs. Even low levels of use - "a user or two a day" - are enough to cover his costs, he says, and each hotspot should see a return after 18 months of use.Likewise, Broadreach Networks, a public net access provider backed by Virgin, is due to announce this week that it plans to roll out Wi-Fi along the west coast main line's stations and, later, in the Virgin trains themselves. Magnus McEwan King, the company's chief executive, is confident his company's approach will both engage users, and turn a profit."Wi-Fi is not enough - it's not a customer service," he says. "Public internet access is _ I'm addressing a fundamental need, not flogging a technology. Our product is connectivity outside the home or office." Like The Cloud, his company will provide a Wi-Fi network for other internet service providers - like Virgin.net - to sell on to its customers.Getting exact figures on the amount being spent on building these networks, and the costs involved in maintaining them, is difficult. The big players don't break down what bits of capital expenditure go where in their accounts. The new arrivals, backed by venture capitalists, refuse to reveal how much they are investing, although analysts think around $1.5bn has been pumped into the Wi-Fi industry overall. (This figure includes companies making the hardware, as well as those building networks.)And the investment continues. An on-train Wi-Fi announcement from GNER, on the east coast line, is expected this week. Meanwhile, The Cloud says it is running ahead of its targets for new hotspots, with more than 1,500 operational today. It expects to overshoot the 3,000 it planned for the end of December.Will all this investment end in tears? Amish Kacker at Analysys, a telecoms consultancy, agrees there has been too much hype surrounding Wi-Fi. But he says the underlying business proposition remains sound enough. The impetus for the entire Wi-Fi world, he suggests, comes from the fact that more and more of us are getting Wi-Fi in the office, meaning our laptops are equipped and we know about the technology. "The problem is," he says, "there's always going to be a lead time between people getting equipped, and when they actually start using it."The challenge is that there's an amount of money going into this, and there isn't a return in the next couple of years. So the ones who are expecting a quick buck are probably going to die. But the ones who are investing a bit more prudently with this sort of time frame in mind should start seeing some return on this."Meanwhile, Forrester's Godell is unapologetic about calling much of the Wi-Fi business into question, only months after it has started. But he is also anxious not to come across as dismissing the technology itself. "I'm going to get it at home," he protests."I think it will do very well in the home network environment, and with private hotspots inside company offices, university campuses and so forth," he insists. "But that is a very different setting to the area where we have seen the most hype so far, with public internet access."With mobile phones offering email alerts, and affordable or free broadband access at home and at work, the critical question for Godell is: "How big is that need?" He continues: "I agree there is some need, but think there has been very pointed exaggeration of the need for internet access around the clock, and on top of that the willingness to pay for it. And that is the critical issue when you create a business plan."Only in the next few months will we discover if those business plans are really ready to fly.
At last, some of the most famous machines in computing history have a home. Nestled into a huge display area called Visible Storage are parts of early computers such as the Eniac and the Johnniac; an Enigma machine; the IBM computer that was Arthur C Clarke's model for Hal in 2001: A Space Odyssey; and a floor-to-ceiling "PC Wall" of early PCs that's enough to make a geek weep with joy.The exhibits are part of the diverse collection belonging to Silicon Valley's Computer History Museum, which has just opened its doors in a dramatic building in the heart of the Valley, after years of being squashed into warehouses provided by Nasa.Ironically, the move was possible because the new home, a former Silicon Graphics building, only became available and affordable following the economic battering of the industry that the museum lovingly documents.The relocation is giving the museum a much higher profile. Now it has regular weekly tours and, eventually, will open as a drop-in facility complete with research library and archives, a lecture theatre, a shop and more."Computers are so important to our society, our technologies, to people. I think if you can chronicle their story, you can inspire people - inspire them to innovate and create," says John C Toole, the museum's chief executive. This is the perfect time to be gathering and documenting computers, he says, while many of the industry pioneers are still around.Certainly, the museum's donor list reads like an industry who's who, and its board of trustees includes industry legends like C Gordon Bell, whose personal collection of early calculating devices forms part of the museum's exhibits.Nearby sit some of the earliest mechanical devices - a working replica of the 1889 Hollerith Census Machine, created to tabulate the US census, which became part of IBM; and some other early punch-card machines, the forerunners of modern computers.Looming in the back is a veritable hardware hall of fame. There's a chunk of Eniac (electronic numerical integrator and calculator), the room-sized second world war invention with 18,000 vacuum tubes, designed to calculate missile trajectories.Then there's the Johnniac - a massive computer built in 1954 by the Rand Corporation, named for computing pioneer John von Neumann. The size of five refrigerators, the Johnniac is notable   for having a memory - though its entire brain capacity was a mere 4K, about the size of a brief email.Along one aisle stretch two famous machines - the enormous Wisc (Wisconsin integrally synchronised computer), which computing pioneer Gene Amdahl built in1952 as part of his PhD project in theoretical physics. And there's one of only 46 Sage (semi-automated ground environment) computers, part of a $10bn cold war initiative to detect Russian fighter planes and missiles."The only piece of machinery that came with a cigarette lighter and ashtray," quips Toole. And the museum houses several examples of Cray supercomputers, including one nicknamed the world's most expensive love seat because circular seating covers the cooling system.Only 15% of the museum's collection is on display, but the archive includes advertisements, manuals, robots, videos, software, gaming devices and prototypes, including one for the Palm handheld.Toole notes that much of computing history has been lost, because many companies - especially dotcom-era ones - didn't save objects or documentation. Also, for branding reasons, some companies obliterate the history of the companies they acquire, he says. He hopes to get a programme under way to advise companies on what to save, and how to save it. Much of the museum's collection comes from key industry people who stored items they loved, he says.Is there one object he'd love to acquire for the collection more than any other? "A full Univac computer would be really cool to have," he says.
And the new Doctor Who is... on the internet instead of TV. To celebrate 40 years of everyone's favourite time traveller, the BBC has commissioned a new story, The Scream of the Shalka, and a new doctor in the shape of Richard E Grant, but you won't see it on telly.This will be the latest of a short line of Doctor Who plays that have been internet-based only, with two of them later released on CD. Horror fans can watchThe Ghosts of Albionby Amber Benson, who played Tara Maclay in Buffy the Vampire Slayer.Amateur audio and film producers have been using the net for some time, as a glance atAtomfilms.comwill confirm - but the interest from the professionals is new.The format of the BBC webcasts is simple. The BBC broadcasts the dramas in RealPlayer format in bursts of five minutes or so, five or six of which make up an episode. A new episode is added each week until the story is complete. The Doctor Whos to date have had illustrations and some basic animation, most recently based on Macromedia Flash, to accompany them. Ghosts of Albion had full, if crude, animation from Dangermouse producers Cosgrove Hall, as will Richard E Grant's Doctor Who.Gary Russell has produced two of the Doctor Who webcasts - Real Time featuring Colin Baker, and Shada, from a never-completed Douglas Adams script, featuring Paul McGann. When he wrote Real Time, says Russell, he was writing as if for one of the BBC-licensed Dr Who audio plays his company,Big Finish, has been producing for some years, effectively ignoring the fact that illustrations would be added. "Shada was more of a cross-pollination of the two," he says. For example, in the original there is a bicycle chase. "I thought we'd have to cut that out, it would be terribly boring in sound - but BBCi said no, keep it in, and with the pictures and a little extra dialogue, it worked."Russell did not have to take into account the downloadable nature of a webcast, and the waiting time. At the end of every TV episode, give or take, there's a cliffhanger to keep the viewer interested for the following week. On the net, they need to be kept motivated to download the next section every few minutes. "I didn't worry about that - BBCi hadn't even decided where those breaks were going to be while we were recording. I just wanted to keep people coming back the following week."New Doctor Richard E Grant confirms that recording the new story was much like recording a radio drama. "Read through a scene, get director's notes, then record, then re-record sections and move on," he says. "The great advantage is that there is no dawn wake-up call, locations in the middle of nowhere, make-up, wig or costume requirements. As it was so hot this summer, we were all in shorts and grateful for the strong air conditioning in the sound studio." He was never aware of any need for it to be different because it was going on the internet.Meanwhile, having spent one day on a read-through with the supporting cast, including Sir Derek Jacobi and Diana Quick, then four days in the studio, he has been bemused by some of the requests. "Where I grew up in Africa, television arrived in 1980 and did not include Dr Who. Since doing the recordings, there have been offers to go to Dr Who conventions and sign autographs, which I never anticipated and have not taken up. I don't feel I qualify, as it is just 'a voice'."It is somehow appealing that Doctor Who should be at the forefront of what is slowly becoming a new medium for original productions. Various TV technologies such as blue screen and Quantel were developed very much with that series in mind, so acting as a test-bed for a new format is nothing new for the Time Lord. The interesting thing will be to see whether internet dramas can make the move from cult appeal to the mainstream.&#183;Doctor Who: The Scream of the Shalka will be onwww.bbc.co.uk/drwhoaround November for the anniversary.
Since my rant on Monday about the fashionable pursuit of blog bashing, we've been having a very interesting debate in the comments box of that post. Some good points have been raised, not least a questioning of why we bash on so about blogging. I thought I'd explain them here, at some length (sorry) before we doubtless continue the debate.Right: first, the technology's reason for existing is a Good Thing: it's letting people express themselves on the web more easily. I think freedom of expression is important. To argue against something that allows such expression, by removing the very real barriers to entry of coding and designing and FTPing and the rest, is a lot like arguing against freedom of speech (as Jack has said here before). When people bash these websites, what they are often saying is that such freedom should only be granted to those who meet their criteria as interesting, or literate, or clever.Second, if what some people produce using this new-found freedom isn't very good, how much does it matter? On the web, there's an unlimited amount of space to hold all this stuff. Don't like what you see? Move on. It's all pretty democratic. People don't need to visit your page. And unlike TV, radio or newsprint, you're not filling airwaves, or newsprint, that could be better used in another way.Do we think everything that goes on in the "blogosphere" is fantastic? No, absolutely not. Why, even the Register's Andrew Orlowski (who regular readers know tends to bring me out in hives)makes some good points todayabout some of the nonsense (and small-town politics) that's starting to occupy a corner of webloggery. But don't hang the entire medium because of a few bores.Being an optimistic soul, I believe that among the dross there's the occasional gem, like those sites represented by the list of links to the right, for instance. And even if many weblogs are uninteresting to us, that does not necessarily mean they are uninteresting to others. If someone writes for an audience of two, and finds that audience of two, why should we have a problem with that?Finally, it's useful to remember that not everyone looks to make money when they put pen to paper, and not all writing is done for the benefit of the reader.
If you need someone to blame, blame Francisco Tarrega, the 19th-century Spanish musician considered by aficionados to be the father of the modern classical guitar. Most of what we know about Tarrega's life tends to inspire sympathy: he suffered from ophthalmia, a particularly nasty form of conjunctivitis, and was said to have contracted it as a child when he was nearly drowned in a poisoned river by a mentally-disturbed nursemaid. But feelings of pity soon give way to fury when Mark Squires, head of communications in Britain for the Finnish mobile phone company Nokia, plays you an audio file of Tarrega's masterpiece Gran Vals. A few bars of a wistful melody and then, suddenly, there it is: the 13-note phrase that feels like it's been hardwired into your brain since birth, or at least the early 90s, and which has become universally known - even, sadly, among classical-guitar lovers - as "that really annoying Nokia ringtone"."Annoying? Oh, it's no more annoying than 'ring ring! ring ring!'," Squires says heartily. "I think it's a little bit more gentle on the ear, actually." Still, he admits, when he hears it ringing on live TV broadcasts, "you do think, 'silent button! silent button!'"Looked at from one angle, then, yesterday's astonishing news that sales of ringtones downloaded to mobile phones are expected to overtake sales of CD singles during 2003 is good news: at least there will be more variety.About &#163;40m worth of ringtones were sold last year, according to the Mobile Data Association, a trade group - largely by mobile phone users paying between &#163;1.50 and &#163;3.50 a time to have tunes sent to their handsets using text-messaging technology. By the end of this year, they claim, this nascent industry is set to record on income of &#163;70m, nudging past singles sales, which the record industry forecasts will bring in only &#163;67m.Increasingly - as with the Sugababes' recent single Round Round - record companies targeting younger demographic groups find themselves marketing the ringtone version of a song as energetically as the CD itself, either making it available with a code purchased with the disc, or scooping up a generous percentage in royalties every time it is bought from a third party. With many handsets now capable of playing polyphonic sound, the consecutive single beeps of Tarrega have been replaced with something more akin to a moderately advanced electric keyboard, plus percussion. ("And just around the corner, something that will sound like this," says Squires, before playing the ringtone on his own phone - a radio-quality rendition of the dance track Sandstorm, by the artist and producer Darude who, Squires emphasises with touching loyalty to Nokia, is Finnish.)The first manufacturers of the telephone, notes the technological historian Jon Agar, didn't seem to foresee that it might be used for two-way communication (as opposed to sending one-way voice messages). Mobile phone companies, similarly, were taken aback by the explosion in text messaging in Europe and Japan - and remain broadly baffled by its failure to explode in the US, where walkie-talkie functions linking pairs of cellphones are still much more popular.For Agar, the fact that ringtones have become such a fad both in the playground and at the watercooler - and a constantly updated tune, among some teenagers, the new currency of cool - shows, once again, how it is the users of technology who call the shots. "Like fashion in clothes, it's another way of expressing individuality, and this time, expressing it to anyone within earshot," he points out. "In that sense it communicates better than fashionable clothes, which might take a trained eye to spot."Look closely at the hyperbolic yet exceedingly vague advertising campaigns for the much-heralded new generation of 3G phones, Agar notes, and a similar confusion is evident."It's clear that the companies themselves don't have a very good idea what they'll be used for. They've spotted this pattern in the past" - that if you bundle in enough features, one of them will snowball into a craze - "and they're hoping that it will repeat itself. Not least because it shores up a lot of their marketing decisions if it does."Already, according to some mobile phone retailers, a handset's capacity for picture-messaging - its ability to beam detailed, full-colour illustrations from one user to another - is replacing the question of how many tunes it can store as the key question for younger consumers.But not, one suspects, before a plethora of web-based ringtones firms have cashed in on the phenomenon, among them the South African company iTouch (which also provides some mobile phone services to the Guardian's website). "We produce and sell the ringtones, we collect the money, and we pay the royalties," explains iTouch's Matt Hardwick. Take Justin Timberlake's recent single, Rock Your Body: the firm did a deal with Zomba, his record label, and so now, "if you purchase the single at HMV or Virgin, inside it, there's a sleeve which contains mobile services based around Justin Timberlake: a logo &#91;for your mobile phone&#93;, and a ringtone, both monotone and polyphonic". This, Hardwick explains, is "an opportunity to broaden your brand experience"."At the moment I'm rotating between Wayne Wonder, Shaggy and a few others," says Claire Morton, 15, a bona fide member of the ringtone demographic and part of an entirely unscientific survey conducted on the streets of north London yesterday afternoon. "I always swap ring tones with friends, and I've bought about three CDs so I can download the ringtones that come with them." "I call up the numbers in the back of magazines," says Kerry Armitt, 18. "They say it will cost &#163;2, but when I rang up, &#163;9 of credit came off my mobile phone."Most, though, insist they can find most ringtones for free. "I've just got a new phone from O2 and they give you two free ringtones," says Jack Wright, 16. "After that, I won't pay for them. I'll get them from the internet."And it is this, perhaps, that will ring the loudest alarms in the corridors of iTouch and its rivals. The record industry is eyeing mobile phones not just as a source of extra revenue, but possibly as a delivery system for digital music - jumping belatedly on the internet music bandwagon it missed so spectacularly the first time around. The billing relationship that mobile phone users already have with their networks - the system through which they also pay for ringtones now - offers an extraordinary second chance: a readymade way of charging for music track by track. Indeed, if Nokia's Squires has his way, users wouldn't even pay once to own a downloaded track forever - they'd pay a smaller amount whenever they wanted to listen to it. ("People used to say, 10p for a text message? That's terrible," he says, countering objections.)None of this, though, is going to fly if the technology's real users - as usual, the most innovative minds involved - can find enough ways of transferring music from free internet sources to the phones in their pockets."I remember it quite clearly," Squires says. "The first Nokia phone with &#91;musical&#93; ringtones came out and everybody within the company suddenly wanted it. We began to think: there's something in this... later, a Finnish student who worked for us during his holidays designed a ringtone composer &#91;for the Nokia 9000&#93; - you could type music in on a musical stave." The company developed a system for sending the ringtones to and from the phone, and in 2001 they made the relevant software code open for all. And then, recalls Squires, "There was an explosion."In a study of mobile phone use commissioned by Motorola, the academic Sadie Plant wrote: "The warbles, beeps and tunes of the mobile have become so common that their calls have begun to constitute a new kind of electronic birdsong, changing the soundtrack of the cities and altering the background noise in regions as varied as the forests of Finland and the deserts of Dubai. Many urban song birds have become adept at impersonating mobile tones and melodies... like a calling bird, a ringing phone demands a response. Public uses of the mobile spread this tension to all those within earshot, while leaving them powerless to intervene: only the person to whom the call is made is in a position to respond."She was writing before the proliferation of polyphonic tones, let alone the surge in downloading; there does not yet appear to be any ornithological account of how urban birds are responding to the increased variety and complexity of ringtones, although it seems likely that they will be up to the challenge. This is the price we pay for modernity: starlings singing Justin Timberlake.&#183;Additional reporting by Gemma PhillipsThis week's top 10ThemePhoenix NightsScooterLogical SongThemeMission ImpossibleSugababesRound RoundP DiddyI Need A GirlAtomic KittenThe Tide Is HighEminemWithout MeThemeItalian JobThemeScooby-DooRomeoRomeo Dunnwww.toptenringtones.co.uk
"The New York Police Department declared Segways illegal on public streets, sidewalks or in parks last week after revealing it was testing 10 for official use -- but members of the owners group still ride. 'We're a very small number. We don't look for trouble,' said Atkins, who heads the informal New York City Segway Owners group."Reutershas the story.
Hewlett-Packard announced 158 new consumer-oriented products on Monday, reports theMercury News. It also "plans to introduce a number of specialized PCs in the coming weeks, including a desktop machine aimed specifically at gamers," addsCNet. This is an area where Hypersonic PCs, Voodoo, and companies like the almost-famousAlienwareoperate.
Ringtones are - quite literally - the new rock'n'roll. The downloading of pop songs and melodies to your mobile phone is speedily becoming a big business, while manufacturing continues its relentless decline. According to the Mobile Data Association, sales of ringtones are expected to rise 60% this year to &#163;70m, at which level they are poised to sell more than CD singles, which are falling fast. This is mainly interesting as a social phenomenon, the "branding" of youngsters by the genre of the tunes they choose to identify them when their phones ring. At the very least, such aural personalisation is a welcome relief from passive identification using someone else's brand like Nike or Adidas.But the success of ringtones should also provide a moment of reflection for the music industry. Music moguls have been quick to blame the ease with which tracks can be downloaded from the internet as a reason why sales of singles have collapsed. But this does not explain why album sales rose (at least in the UK) last year. There is no doubt that many people downloaded tracks for free from the "file-sharing" groups that exist on the web. Most would not have bought the tracks anyway and many of the rest may have gone out and bought a record having sampled it on the net. The music industry cannot accept that one major reason for poor record sales is not piracy but competition from other leisure activities, like the internet, DVDs and ringtones. Another is the inability of the industry to embrace the new technology rather than fruitlessly trying to maintain the old one. Instead of suing the downloaders, they should have exploited the new file-sharing movement by offering tracks at prices that reflect the zero-distribution costs of the internet. The fact that users are prepared to pay up to &#163;3.50 for a single ringtone is proof enough that punters have not lost their appetite to spend when there is something they want. If ringtones be the food of love ... pay on.
Watch out: flash mobs are coming to a store near you. "The bizarre phenomenon, which began in the US earlier this year, is a gathering of hundreds of strangers, organised over the internet &#91;and by text messaging&#93;, who then descend on a chosen location to perform pointless acts," explained theDaily Mail."The trend, according to would-be historians, began in New York in June, when more than 100 people mobbed Macy's store in Manhattan," theSunday Telegraphsaid. The mob then proceeded to ask confused assistants about buying a "love rug" for their "suburban commune". London saw its first flash mob last Friday. "And so it was that a 300-strong throng inexplicably appeared at the sofa shop for only a matter of minutes amid a cacophony of chaos and mobile phone rings...After demonstrating 'reverence' for 'soft furniture', they left as swiftly as they arrived," reported theIndependent.Flash mobs are "usually non-violent and pointless: unlike similarly organised anti-capitalist demonstrations, they have included actions as bizarre as worshipping an alien toy in a European department store and eating bananas in a church", explained theSunday Mirror.On Saturday a flash mob collected near the American embassy in Berlin to toast someone called Natasha. "This is just the sort of thing that happens when you forbid New York to smoke," Tobias von Schoenebeck, a local tour guide, told theNew York Times. It might also be surrealist art, the author Desmond Morris told the Sunday Telegraph. "Flash mobbing is a very healthy social symptom," he added. "Any culture that loses its playfulness loses its humanity."How will the phenomenon develop? TheChicago Sun-Timeswas gloomy: "Sad to say, it's probably only a matter of time before a flash mob gets ugly. If one over-zealous security guard gets physical or one flash mobber starts trouble, a single altercation could turn into a mini-riot. And then we'll get the editorials and commentaries wondering why something wasn't done to prevent this whole flash mobbing thing in the first place."Sandra Smith
A "webworm" virus that was the subject of urgent US government and industry warnings has spread rapidly across the internet, causing computers to mysteriously restart and coordinating an electronic attack against the Microsoft organisation.Security experts said the infection, which exploits a flaw in Windows software, was not yet seriously disrupting internet traffic but was expected to continue spreading quickly.Researchers discovered it at about 3pm on Monday and reported tens of thousands of infected computers in universities, businesses and homes.Infected computers were programmed to automatically launch an attack on a website operated by Microsoft. The site, windowsupdate.com, is used to deliver repairing software patches to Microsoft customers to prevent these types of infections.Microsoft offers a free patch on the website to protect Windows users.The infection was quickly dubbed "LovSan" because of a love note left behind on vulnerable computers: "I just want to say LOVE YOU SAN!" Researchers discovered another message hidden inside the infection that appeared to taunt the Microsoft chairman, Bill Gates: "Billy Gates why do you make this possible? Stop making money and fix your software!"
This afternoon I've been trying out Google's delightfully simpleNewsalertsservice, which sends you an email every time a story of interest crops up. I asked for immediate updates on "Apple" (as in the computer company), which was perhaps a stupidly ambiguous search term. Google's doing a great job of fishing out all the Apple computer stuff, but I'm also learning some fascinating stuff aboutthe battle against apple maggots in Skagit County, andweather in New York.
A curious thing: Packard Bell and Mori have done apollon public awareness of what a Wi-Fi hotspot is. They're spinning it as proof that these wireless broadband access points really have a terribly long way to go to get any kind of recognition. Judging by the PR, were supposed to be having a giggle at the silly responses people give: 1% of married respondents (one person?) thinks it's some kind of "trouble with the wife", for instance. But what really surprised me was that 29% of people actually knew what a Wi-Fi hotspot was. It's spun as being seven in ten peopledon'tknow, but I think the stat reversed is much more interesting. I'd have expected 1-2%, at best. Anyone else think this is high?
Internet share traders are regaining confidence in the stock market, with online stockbrokers seeing a rise of close to 50%  in business over the last quarter, and  the number of people dealing on the internet reaching a record high.In its quarterly report on the share dealing market, market research group ComPeer said that private investors are reversing a 15-month slide in share trading volumes between April and June this year.The number of those dealing online rose to a record 395,000 in this period,  while online business overall was up 42%."There is a growing optimism in the market, while the need to invest for the future becomes ever more important for investors," said, Mark Powell,  chairman of the Association of Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers.Online trading accounted for more than a third of all execution-only trades (trades without advice) while the total value of shares traded online rose by just over 20%.
Rio Audio, the pioneer of the portable MP3 audio player, was due to debut a lineup of seven new music players today.Most of the devices - which should begin shipping this month - are sequels, including a 20GB hard drive device called the Rio Karma that will compete against the popular Apple iPod.Another new device, the Rio Nitrus, will be among the first portable players to use a hard drive the size of a 10p piece that stores 1.5GB, or about 25 hours, of music. The small drive allows the gadget, priced at $299 (£185), to be slightly larger than a matchbook, and angled like one, so it slips easily into a pocket.The Rio Karma, which is squarish and roughly the size of a box of cigarettes, will cost $399 (£249). Like many players, it can connect to a computer via a USB cable, but it also features a docking cradle that has an ethernet port for connection to a home computer network with or without wires.Rio says it is the first portable player to also support the compressed music format called Ogg Vorbis, created by the open-source community.Rio's other new products will be five flash-based players with either 128 megabytes or 256 megabytes of memory, ranging in price from $129 to $199 (£80-£124).With the new releases and a new parent company - Digital Networks North America - Rio's president, Jeff Hastings, said the company hoped to regain the dominance it once had in the MP3 player market.In 1998, Rio, then a part of Diamond Multimedia Systems, was the first to introduce a commercial MP3 player, just as music in the compressed MP3 format was becoming widespread on the internet. The recording industry unsuccessfully tried to squelch the Rio 300, losing its lawsuit against Diamond in 1999.A week after the court ruling, Rio was sold for $173m to a company that eventually renamed itself SONICblue.Rio players, which relied on flash memory and did not have any moving components, fast became a common sight at the gym, or on joggers. But as other flash-based portable players flooded the market, Rio struggled to fend off rivals, including Creative Technology, maker of the Nomad line of players, and big-name consumer electronic companies such as Samsung.SONICblue's financial troubles limited Rio's marketing power and inventory. By the time SONICblue filed for bankruptcy protection in March, Rio players were hardly existent on store shelves.Meanwhile, more contenders have entered the market with new kinds of audio products to tap the consumer shift toward digital music.Apple introduced its iPod in October 2001, igniting a category of portable players with hard drives. Though it was bulkier than flash-based players, the pocket-sized iPod could hold hundreds more songs - about 1,000 - with its 5GB drive. The latest models now have as much as 30GB of storage.RCA/Thomson introduced a player in June that uses the same tiny hard-drive as Rio's upcoming Nitrus.Gateway last week made its MP3 player debut with a flash-based gadget about the size of a pack of chewing gum.
Oh dear. Over at the Beeb, technology analyst Bill Thompson bemoanssummer sillinesson weblogs. Alas, his piece isn't up to much. Already, a daft factual error ("The earliest bloggers have been at it for two years now") has been flagged up byNeed to Knowand lambasted byTom Coates. And the Guardian's ownSimon Waldmanhas a pop at the effortless elitism Thompson exhibits ("more and more sites are being created by people with less and less to say"). In this heat, it's probably futile to expend much effort in further critiquing such a lazy piece of writing - the lack of effort shines through, from the meandering subject matter to the dismissal of a medium through the perceived faults of a few. And I'll only note in passing that it's a tad ironic Thompson's column is called "Billblog", in some pisspoor attempt to get with the weblogging crowd. Suffice to say: I think the piece brings us closer to the source of Bill's (and others') antipathy towards weblogs. While small web publishers cannot compete with the big news organisations in primary reporting of major news events, they certainlycancompete with ill-considered bilge like this. These research-lite polemicists are the low-hanging fruit.
What a disappointment. Having just moved house I ordered BT wires-only broadband, to be switched on last Friday. The day arrived, myZoom 5551 X4 modem/router/firewallturned up as planned, and I rushed home from work fully expecting an evening of frustration. There was so much to go wrong: the line, BT flicking the switch at the exchange, the modem, getting it all to talk to Airport, getting Airport to talk to my iBook again after a month of (whisper it) dial-up AOL. I thought I'd get at least one bitchy column out the whole experience, probably many more.But, damn it, it all went near flawlessly. The modem-to-computer bit worked out the box. When I tried to connect to the internet, something wasn't working - hope yet, I thought, for a lazy few hundred words - but a five minute call to BT Openworld's jolly helpful helpdesk (gasp! They knew what they were talking about!) fixed the single setting that was wrong, and I was off. What's more, the whole shebang goes a damn sight faster than my old NTL cable modem setup. What's a journalist to do? Maybe I'll go and write a "why-oh-why" about dull weblogs, or something...
It's 2am in London and I'm facing a $250 raise at a the poker table in cyberspace. I can't see my opponent's face, let alone peer deep into the whites of his eyes, but I know he's sitting in Amarillo, Texas, using the (presumably) false name of FatMan, and has been playing pretty aggressively for the past three hours.To call or not to call? In this cyberspace poker game I've got only 15 seconds to decide, much less than in a regular game.But this is a regular poker game, played for real money, and the chat-box shows the dealer telling me to hurry up and make my move. I'm still dithering when a ping tells me I've been 'timed out', or automatically folded. Just as well, for FatMan turns out to have a pair of aces against my pair of kings. And the final card is another ace, giving him an unbeatable hand.A 'pony' saved, in poker parlance, leaving me $1,700 to play on with. Not too bad, as I started with the daily maximum of $600.I click the box offering me the chance to sit out the next few hands, and go walkabout in the action-packed 'lobby' ofwww.pokerstars.com, one of dozens of websites taking over this popular game, made respectable by books and TV tournaments.The constantly changing noticeboard shows me there are more than 3,000 people playing at some 350 tables on this website alone. The figures are much the same at pokerstars' main rivals, partypoker.com and paradisepoker.com, not to mention planetpoker.com and the UK-based Ladbrokes, now the second-largest site in the world.If it's 2am here, it's 9pm yesterday along the eastern seaboard of the United States, 6pm in the American West, and God knows what time in Sydney, Stockholm, Monte Carlo and Warsaw, where the other players at my table are signed in from. They can fake their names - you have to, in fact, as all normal names have long since been collared - and they can fake what they look like in the little round slots offering the chance to post a likeness.The woman beside me is probably a man. But they can't fake where they're from, which you can discover by sliding your cursor over their name. That information is hooked up to their line of credit, be it US bank account or (as in my case) credit card. When you claim your winnings, they send you a dollar cheque. And the system seems to work. All honest and above board.It certainly worked for an American player with the wonderful name of Chris Moneymaker, who won the $2.5 million first prize in this year's World Series of Poker in Las Vegas, after starting out on PokerStars with $40. It's the biggest parlay in the history of the game, and it's turned every poker player I know into an internet junkie.Among the countless other addicts, snooker champ Steve Davis tells me he's   hooked on internet poker. He and his pals Stephen Hendry, Mark Williams and promoter Barry Hearn all play together (under pseudonyms, of course) on the site co-run by Hearn's Matchroom with Ladbroke's, pokermillion.com, an adjunct of the Sky TV series of the same name.'I was already an internet junkie,' says Davis, 'downloading music and running my own website, but poker has taken over most of the time I spend online. If you ask me, it's the best reason for having the internet.'In the olden days, outside our regular games in people's homes, we poker addicts would have had to wait till 2pm, get out the car and head down to our local cardroom (even in London, there's only one left). Even then, we might have had to wait an hour or two to get a seat in the game of our choice.Now poker is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. No one can see you, nor can you see them. But, boy, do you get to know them.Or do you? Internet poker is subtly different from the real thing. Part of the appeal of poker is the backchat at the table. All that is miraculously recreated on the net, up to a point, by means of that chat-box, in which I can type in 'Nice hand' to show FatMan I'm a good loser (or am pretending to be), or 'Up Yours!' if I want to upset StetsonHat from Dallas in Seat Six.Not being able to see their faces is the worst thing, on top of the hectic speed at which the game is played. There's no doubt I'm playing worse tonight than I would at a real table. I'm making calls I shouldn't make, because no one can see me squirming with embarrassment.And because, although I'm playing for real money, it still feels like a game I'm playing on my computer rather than a real poker game, where vital decisions take a tad more time.'It's even more addictive than face-to-face poker,' says the playwright Patrick Marber, an old sparring partner of mine at the green baize. Hearn prefers the word 'compelling', which has a 'less pejorative' ring. But Marber readily admits he needs his regular fix. 'I go through phases of playing every night before I go to bed. And then I try to steel myself to phases without. But it's tough, very tough.'I'm finding much the same myself, as FatMan bets big at me again. Hey, let him exercise his ego for a while. Mine's under control. This time I exert some self-discipline, fold and check out of the table in search of the safer world of poker tournaments.Everyone I've talked to lost in their first month on the net, as the switch from real to computerised poker takes some getting used to. There are some very good players in cyberspace, who have adjusted their games to computer dealing - slightly different from human, random dealing - and the suspicion that some players are computerised 'shills', invented by the websites.Maybe some opponents are partners sitting in the same room, clever enough to falsify their location, working together to nail the other players? Maybe that 'bad beat' was the computer favouring one of its own? Maybe these offshore websites will just run away with all our money one day?'They're making so much dough they don't have to,' says Roy Houghton, a cardroom manager forced by Britain's antique gaming legislation to run 'semi-legal' tournaments above a London pub. 'It's in their interests to keep it straight.'The websites take a small 'rake' from each pot, which varies with the size of the game. With so many hands per hour at so many hundreds of tables, they're making tens of thousands a day.Journalist Victoria Coren, one of Britain's leading female players, has all but given up cash games in favour of internet tournaments. 'The financial risk is lower,' she explains, 'and the standard of play is more consistent.' Now she wins more than she loses.Last week saw the launch of the first world championships on the web, with a guaranteed $1m in prize money. Eleven events in different poker disciplines over 11 days climax next Sunday in the Big One, a No Limit Hold 'Em tourney, which costs $1,000 to enter but offers a first prize of at least $250,000.But enough of this chat. Now you must excuse me, as FatMan's money seems to be going to his head. He's just lost a big hand he shouldn't even have been playing. Time for me to get back in the action.
The geeks are, in their bite-sized way, revolting; we can only wish them the best of luck. London was hit last week by its first 'flash-mob', a group of hundreds who had used the internet to organise themselves into a swarm and descend on a sofa warehouse; they said something silly together and swiftly disappeared.Some commentators have mentioned parallels with the situationists of the 1960s, but they, no matter how absurd, actually helped to change something. It is hard to believe that the flash-mobsters, with their fondness for 'hits' on soft furnishings and hosiery, aspire to similar ideals. Libert&#233;, &#233;galit&#233;, upholster&#233;?No, flash-mobbing has come about because the world's webheads and cyberpunks have suddenly woken up to the fact that they should maybe get out a bit more and start meeting people.It's also hard to condemn, outright, a gathering of disparate strangers who assemble at a pre-arranged time to make a random statement of perfect pointlessness. But at least journalists get paid for it.
Richard Bartle, co-creator of the first text-based MUD (Multi-User Dungeon) adventure game, has a go at the use ofvoice communications in virtual worlds. [Thanks to Slashdot for the link.]
The adventure game has had to endure many setbacks over recent years, with new titles failing to evoke the days when games such as Sam and Max, Monkey Island and Day of the Tentacle ruled supreme.Even recent versions of older franchises such as the Indiana Jones games and the Gabriel Knight detective series have not quite lived up to expectations.However, one name that has managed to retain its pedigree during this period of stagnation is Revolution's Broken Sword series. Its third title, Broken Sword: The Sleeping Dragon, is on the way.The game is set for an October release on PC, PS2 and Xbox, and looks like being both a wake-up call to adventure games in general and a shake-up of the series itself.As with the previous games, the title revolves around historical mysteries, and features heroes George and Nico, who traverse the world, from the depths of the Congo to the ancient isle of Avalon in Glastonbury.But it is a departure from its predecessors, not least because it is now in full 3D. Revolution chief Charles Cecil told a press conference: "The point-and-click adventure is dead. Long live the adventure!""We're not writing point-and-click adventures any more," Mr Cecil told computerandvideogames.com. "Our replacement for it is an adventure with action elements. It's not an action adventure like, say, Tomb Raider."The Sleeping Dragon is still primarily cerebral in its gameplay. Our way to achieve this is that, as you walk towards an object, the icon map on the bottom right-hand corner gives you your various elements, such as 'examine', that translate to buttons on a joypad or keyboard."We've always despised adventure gameplay that involves using every object with every background object until you find the solution."We really wanted to get away from that and feel that what we're doing now is what other people will follow and that we're overtaking the people we used to admire."With enhanced lighting and facial animation systems, not to mention players being able to interact more freely with the world around them, Broken Sword 3: The Sleeping Dragon could well resuscitate the adventure game genre.Microsoft has announced further plans to upgrade its Xbox Live service with a new 'Live Web' feature.This will allow players to find out what their friends are currently playing, download content from a special website and enter voice chat without needing to be in the game.The service will run in tandem with the previously announced XSN Sports, which will give players the ability to view stats, rankings and scoreboards.It is due for US release in September, but UK gamers will have to wait until at least October.Official UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA, compiled by Chart-Track1) Pokemon Ruby (GBA) Nintendo - £29.992) Pokemon Sapphire (GBA) Nintendo - £29.993) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.994) Tomb Raider: the Angel of Darkness (PS2, PC) Eidos Interactive - £34.995) Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.996) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.997) The Sims (PC, PS2, Xbox, GM) Electronic Arts - £32.998) SOCOM: US Navy Seals (PS2) Sony - £49.999) The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.9910) Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2003 (PS2, Xbox, PC, GC) Electronic Arts £37.99
Cherish that analogue SLR camera you've owned for decades. Well, at least make the most of it - because if research company InfoTrends is correct, film cameras will be going the way of the Betamax VCR and the BSB Squarial within five years.In a report issued a month ago, the company predicted that only single-use film cameras will survive the cull, with digital models of around three or four mega pixels dominating the market.While writing the obituary for film cameras is probably a little premature, it's clear that sales of digital cameras in all sectors have now started to impact on sales on their film counterparts.InfoTrends cites "the rise of home photo printing, retail digital photo finishing services, online photo services, TV-based imaging products and services, and wireless imaging" as key reasons for their uptake.It perhaps should have added to that list the way in which reasonable quality digital cameras can now be picked up cheaply. Whereas once three mega pixel snappers sold for more than £500, quality models from established photographic names can now be bought for less than £250.Three mega pixels is arguably the bottom line for digital cameras, if the photographer intends to print out their images. Provided the image is sharp, three mega pixels is enough resolution for a decent 10x8 inch print. Anything larger and four or five mega pixel models ought to be considered.There has also been a meteoric rise in sales of low-end VGA cameras. Companies like SiPix and Digital Dream Company have milked the market for gadgets with tiny low-end inexpensive snappers. Philips has even released a keychain device with an integrated camera and a built-in USB connector.Yet some analysts believe the market for these devices is likely to be short-lived. In Japan, phones that can take 1.3 mega pixel images are already proving popular among the young, and the race is on to deliver a two-mega pixel phone.Sony Ericsson is also rumoured to be lining up a 1.3-mega-pixel camera for the European market. There's plenty of anecdotal evidence from the Far East that users are taking images on their phone to keep, rather than just to send and then delete. This has developed in tandem with the widespread use of storage card like SD and Memory Stick on Far Eastern phones.So far, digital camera manufacturers remain confident that sales of camera phones won't impact on sales of digital cameras.Adding extra functionality to digital cameras could be the key. "In the future, budget digital cameras could offer Bluetooth , MP3 and even e-mail facilities", suggests Bill Foley of SiPix. "Three and four mega pixel cameras will also hit the budget sector soon."So, in the short term at least, unless you're happy with grainy, blurry images from your camera phone, there's still a compelling case to invest in a digital model.At the top-end of the market, recent launches from Olympus, Canon and others that pair high resolution, six mega pixel images with creative and manual facilities have even turned the heads of some diehard analogue SLR enthusiasts. There are also some fabulous models that retail now for under £300. Here are our recommendations:Bargain basementSiPix StyleCam Groove- £50Evidence of how far even the bottom end of the market has come. A tiny 1.3 mega pixel snapper with 16MB of storage on board for less than fifty quid. Great value.Digital Dream Company L'Espion XS- £80Unlike many cheapo snappers this model, with its chromey cigarette lighter styling casing, looks rather classy. Boasts some innovative features including an infrared facility which automatically takes an image when someone gets within five metres of the cameraGadget snappersPhilips KEY008- £90Camera integrated within a pocketable USB key chain. Transfers images to any Windows XP running PC. Image quality is reasonable. Its 128MB storage means it has space for hundreds of images.Sony Clie PEG NZ90- £500Feature-packed PDA that runs using Palm's operating system. On board is a two-mega pixel camera - rival PDAs usually have cameras that take basic VGA resolution images.Sharp GX20- £100-250The latest version of the phone that launched Vodafone Live! Boasts a camera capable of far better images than its predecessor the GX10.All-roundersSony DSC-U30- £200Superbly designed miniature two mega pixel camera. Capable of taking some pretty striking images.Olympus Mju 300- £300Classy mid-market camera wrapped in a stylish metallic case. Takes three mega pixel images and boast a 3x optical and 4x digital zoom.Casio Elixim EX-Z3DDA-  £350Credit card-sized and super slim with it, yet capable of taking three mega pixel images.Canon Digital Ixus 400-  £450The Digital Ixus is nearest thing digital cameras have to a classic design. This latest incarnation takes four-mega pixel images is finished in tough steel casing and has a 3x optical zoom.The high-endOlympus C-50 Zoom 400-  £500This five mega pixel camera is as good as compact digital cameras get at the moment.Fuji S7000 ZoomHigh-end feature crammed camera that is set to replace Fuji's classic S602 Zoom. Takes six mega pixel images. Due in October.Canon PowerShot G5- £680Brand new five mega pixel heavyweight.Nikon Coolpix 5400- £650SLR-style five mega pixel digital model. Boast amazing macros facilities.
According toCNet: "The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers said Wednesday it has finished the 802.15.3 standard, ensuring that digital content streamed over a wireless network will have a "guaranteed level of service," said Robert Heile, chairman of the IEEE's 802.15 working group and chief technology officer of Appairent."The standard allows data to be transmitted 100 yards at 55Mbps in the 2.4GHz frequency band and "was designed to coexist with other wireless technologies, such as Bluetooth and 802.11, or Wi-Fi."
PCs running Windows XP Media Center Edition are finally expected to reach the UK this year, reportsVNUnet. Companies planning to introduce them "include Elonex, Evesham Technology, Hi-Grade Computers, Hewlett Packard, Packard Bell, PC World and Time Group."AsWininfopoints out, there's already a free alternative athttp://myhtpc.net/. "Although myHTPC is targeted at Home Theater Personal Computer users, it can serve many purposes. For example, it can be used to build a simple menu for children to access their programs. It can also work very well with kiosk and touch-screen applications," says the site.
"An experiment in which Internet users were asked to find any one of 18 strangers by using their online connections, showed that it took, on average, only five to seven steps by using friends and acquaintances. The results, published this week in the journal Science, illustrate how social networks operate and how they have become truly global, the team at Columbia University said." SeeReuters.
A text messages sent by Bradford University to students waiting for A-level results reading "Hoping 4 gr8 results Thursday :-) frm bfd uni" is one of the latest moves in the scramble by universities to fill their places.This year there are signs that there will be more vacant places than ever, giving students the chance to shop around when they get their results. And with universities under pressure to recruit students as their financial safety net is withdrawn by the government funding councils, the battle for student hearts and minds is expected to be fast and furious in this year's clearing round.UK institutions are still nowhere near the position in the US where even the most prestigious private universities like Harvard and Stanford spend a lot of time and money in wooing students, but the trend is unmistakable.Bradford, which pioneered text messages last year, is this year offering e-cards on its clearing website with messages such as "cheers", "congratulations", "just a note", "good luck" and "fancy meeting up?" in an effort to get more young people and their families visiting the site (www.bradford.ac.uk/clearing).The university's web officer, Claire Gibbons, said the e-cards were an ideal way for family and friends wishing to help in the search for a course to pass on information without "interfering".The city's image was dented by riots two years ago and the clearing website aims to counter bad impressions by plugging it as "the least expensive student city in the UK".Queen Mary, University of London, has a virtual agony aunt to give advice on clearing while at Middlesex, which has been advertising on television, a clearing team will be manning the phones from 7.30am on the morning of A-level results day on August 14.There is hard cash on offer as well as frothy promotions to attract students. Now that the government has decided it needs social workers after all, anyone starting the new BA in social work - Bradford is one of the institutions offering it - could be eligible for bursaries of up to £3,000 a year, including £500 travel costs to work placements.Leeds Metropolitan is making 15 bursaries of £3,000 available for students from low income families in its area in an effort to widen access and overcome fears of debt.Other universities are hoping that sexy new courses will attract undecided students. Kingston University, for instance, is offering a new degree in forensic science and investigative analysis, which will teach the scientific techniques for collecting and interpreting evidence.Propelled by a rash of television dramas, forensic science has become a bandwagon since it was pioneered by Staffordshire University, which found that while straight chemistry courses were struggling to recruit, if students could dress up in white suits and analyse a bloodstained bathroom then there was no stopping them.
At precisely 6.31 yesterday evening, Sofas UK in central London found itself at the cutting edge of internet culture.Simultaneously, and not coincidentally, it was also besieged by 250 sweaty people speaking English without the letter "o".Sofas UK, currently offering sizeable reductions on a wide range of suites, was the chosen venue for Britain's first "flashmob" - a spontaneous and ostensibly pointless gathering, organised secretively by email and subject to meticulous timing.The mob was set in motion yesterday morning, when emails were sent to interested parties signed on to the LondonMob website, giving instructions to meet in one of three pubs at exactly 6.17pm, when more information would be given. Until then, it was important to keep an eye on the fruit machine.A flaw in the plan became apparent at 6.13pm when a young man in a tight-fitting T-shirt left printed instructions on the fruit machine of the Carpenters Arms. While watches were supposed to have been synchronised, it was not clear to which standard. The timing was already out.So far out, in fact, that when the mob eventually descended on Sofa UK its manager, Derrick Robinson, had shut up for the day.Citing a slow afternoon in the heat of the capital - "one tends to use your discretion, if you haven't seen anyone for an hour" - an   unsuspecting Mr Robinson was in the Hope pub when the mob descended.After negotiations with mob spokespeople, intent on emphasising the power of collective bargaining, Mr Robinson opened up. The mob then duly obeyed their instructions; to speak without using "o", text message a friend, and commend Mr Robinson on the quality of his furniture.The first flashmobs were spotted in New York earlier this summer. Organised by a man known only as Bill, and recorded in the weblogs of Manhattan's neterati, the craze quickly spread across America and emigrated to Asia and Europe. Germany now lays claim to the flashmobbing crown: it has groups registered in 21 cities and stages mobs every night of the week.Until yesterday it seemed the British movement was all talk and no sudden congregation."I set my watch by the speaking clock", said Tristan a tall man in shades and ponytail. "To be honest though, it's been better than I expected it to be. I actually thought it might be a bit of a washout. I'm going to Spain tomorrow, though, so I might try starting one in Alicante."At roughly 6.38 the mob burst into a round of applause and departed, leaving Mr Robinson to contemplate a rather bizarre seven minutes."I don't know that this is the strangest day of my life - I'll have to check my stock first," he said."But everybody seemed to appreciate the sofas, so that makes it worthwhile."
The notorious "white van man" is alive, well and multiplying rapidly thanks to Britain's enthusiasm for staying at home and shopping on the internet.Government figures yesterday showed an unprecedented explosion in the number of light goods vehicles on the roads. Experts put the rise down to a craze for home deliveries of everything from fridge freezers to furniture, books and groceries.The distance travelled by vans rose by 5.9% to a new high of 14.4bn kilometres (9bn miles) in the three months to June, compared with the same period last year, fuelling fears about growth in the reputed bad manners of van drivers.Vans accounted for two-thirds of the 1.1% overall rise in vehicle traffic. This is bad news for the transport secretary, Alistair Darling, who is attempting to tackle congestion.Simon Chapman, chief economist for the Freight Transport Association, said: "We're moving a lot more small consignments around. One of the big increases in recent years has been in home deliveries - whether it's Sainsbury's, Safeway or Amazon."Transport experts say the popularity of smaller vans is partly because of a drop in prices, with increasingly competitive financing deals available for van buyers. Dealers sold 13.5% more light commercial vehicles last month than they did in July last year.Environmentalists gave the figures a cautious welcome."The rise of white van man is likely to be viewed with some degree of horror by other road users," said Steve Hounsham of the pressure group Transport 2000. "But if it is a sign of growth in internet shopping, it could mean less consumer traffic."Alan Pulham of the Retail Motor Industry Federation said: "One of the attractions of a white van is you can always dispose of it. They tend to be bought by the reputable businessman, who then sells it and it goes to the second-generation hooligan who we see belting up the motorway."
The cyber-feminist Judith Milhon, who has died of cancer aged 64, pioneered the public's right to the internet. Also known as St Jude, she was part of what she described as a "lefto-revolutionist programming commune" in Berkeley, California, that built the first public online computer system, the legendary Community Memory project, in 1973.The network of computers we now call the internet then belonged to just two groups: the US military and a handful of universities and research institutes. Indeed, it was only in that year that the network extended across the Atlantic to include University College London and the royal radar establishment in Norway.The Berkeley group adapted a TeleType machine that they housed in a cardboard box for soundproofing. The machine, which had no electronic screen or mouse, was placed in Leopold's record shop in Berkeley, and connected to other terminals across the San Francisco Bay area over the local telephone network.It functioned as an electronic bulletin board and quickly became popular with local musicians, who used it to sell instruments and promote concerts. Other early activities of the project included typewriter art and electronic poetry.Although the machine remained in the record shop for only a few months, the Community Memory project gave rise to the system of bulletin board services (BBS) that remain an active part of today's internet (there are now more than 100,000 BBS active in the US alone). In turn, BBS inspired the system of newsgroups that led to the invention of the worldwide web by Tim Berners Lee in 1989.Born in Washington DC, Milhon was brought up in Indiana. She became part of the beat/hipster scene in Cleveland, Ohio, in the early 1960s and was active in the civil rights movement, helping to organise the famous 1965 voting rights march from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama, and being jailed for civil disobedience in Jackson, Mississippi.Milhon started programming in 1967 after reading a book called Teach Yourself Fortran, and worked as a programmer for the vending machine firm Horn &amp; Hardart in New York. But she soon joined the hippy exodus to California, settling in Berkeley, where she began to encourage other women to join the emerging cyber culture.At a time when the internet was dominated by men, she was an ardent advocate of the joys of hacking, cybersex and a woman's right to technology; her battle cry was "Girls need modems!"Milhon was equally renowned for her well-timed cynicism and often humorous writing, both of which helped establish her as a feminist spokesperson, raising   awareness among the growing ranks of women entering the technology sector. In the early 1990s, she became senior editor of the widely opinionated and anarchic Mondo 2000, the San Francisco cyber-culture magazine and precursor to such publications as Wired, Red Herring and Business 2.0.As St Jude, Milhon became one of the first female hackers. In a 1999 interview with Michelle Delio of Wired, she described hacking as a "martial art - a way of defending against politically correct politicians, overly intrusive laws, bigots and narrow-minded people of all persuasions." Hacking, she argued, represented, "the clever circumvention of imposed limits, whether imposed by your government, your own skills or the laws of physics".Her books, which explored ideas of identity in networked societies, include The Joy Of Hacker Sex, The Cyberpunk Handbook and How To Mutate And Take Over The World, the latter co-written with Mondo 2000's founder, RU Sirius.In the late 1990s, Milhon settled across the bay in Oakland, where she continued to work as a web designer and consultant on internet start-ups. She remained a staunch advocate of hacking, telling ABC News earlier this year that women still faced much prejudice in cyber communities. "Simply be present, honest, reasonably competent, female, and everyone's aghast," she said.She is survived by her companion of 40 years, Efrem Lipkin, her first husband, Robert Behling, and their daughter Tresca.&#183;Judith Milhon, cyber pioneer, born 1939; died July 19 2003
Since the end of July, mobile phone companies have had to reduce their charges because of a ruling by the Competition      Commission. But it looks as if many mobile customers are not going to see lower prices as a result. How can this be?Most phone customers are unaware of "wholesale call termination charges". The mobile phone operators levy these      charges for connecting calls to phones on their networks: for mobile-to-mobile calls and fixed-to-mobile calls. The      charges account for about two-thirds of the retail price charged by fixed phone operators for calling a mobile, and about      40% of the retail price of calling from one mobile network to another.The Competition Commission said that these charges should be price-capped, with a 15% cut before the end of July, and      further cuts until 2006. BT intends to pass on the price cuts at the beginning of October. A spokesman said the reason      for the delay was that mobile companies waited until the last moment to let BT know their decision about these charges.      However, while the mobile operators have cut their wholesale charges by 15%, they are not passing this on directly in      the form of retail price reductions for their customers who call another mobile network.Oftel - the telecommunications      regulator - does not have powers to force them to do so. However, as an Oftel spokesman says, in a competitive      market, one would assume that these savings would be passed on to consumers.       Last year, the mobile phone net work operators rejected proposals by Oftel in favour of price cuts.This led to the      Competition Commission inquiry, which backed Oftel. Both Oftel and the commission found that termination charges were      in excess of cost, and the commission concluded that they operated against the public interest.       Vodafone says that it already made changes in April to "off-net calls" (calls from one mobile network to another) in its      prepay and Perfect Fit tariffs. Other operators also say they previously lowered tariffs.They put forward a number of      arguments for not passing on the wholesale price cut. First, they state that there are no savings to pass on, as they      have lowered their wholesale charges to each other and to BT. The result, they claim, is either neutral or a net loss.      They also consider that the market has to be looked at as a whole, and mobile customers benefit from services being      bundled together. Plus they need finance for innovation.These arguments do not impress consumer bodies. James King, National Consumer Council competition policy spokesman      said: "The mobile companies are displaying contempt for their customers in failing to pass on the benefit of lower      charges. In competitive markets, it is reasonable to assume that significant reductions in wholesale costs will lead to a      reduction in retail price."It's been a long and complicated saga in which many complex arguments have been batted around by Oftel, the      Competition Commission, and the mobile companies. Consumers don't necessarily want long explanations but they need to      know why a price cut isn't a price cut.
"Many customers are concerned about using Linux since they have become aware of the allegations that Linux is an unauthorized derivative work of the UNIX® operating system," saysSCO. The company is therefore offering them a cut-rate deal, as follows:The promotional fee for the client (desktop) license is $199. The promotional fees for server licenses are: Right to use SCO IP in a Linux distribution Promotional License Fee with 1 CPU $699 with 2 CPUs $1,149 with 4 CPUs $2,499 with 8 CPUs $4,999 Additional single CPU $749Well, there goes the idea that lots of commercial customers would pay SCO a couple of bucks to shut them up. Why so expensive? "SCO has invested hundreds of millions in the development of UNIX and is therefore entitled to a reasonable return on its investment. SCO believes that major portions of the 2.4 and later versions of the Linux kernel are unauthorized derivative works of SCO UNIX IP."
Some interesting US reaction to the EU's verdict on Microsoft, delivered yesterday, issummed upat the Washington Post today. A general thought is that even a $3bn fine - the absolute maximum fine the EU can levy on Microsoft for its abuses of monopoly power - would begoodnews for the software company. Why? They've got a cash pile of $49bn. The EU could do its worst (which, incidentally, it is unlikely to do anyway) and it would be little more than an irritation at Redmond. Once the EU hands down the fine, Microsoft can pay up and get on with business as usual. There's a quote I like from Forbes's Dan Ackman: "For Microsoft, the long-anticipated charges create a sense of déjà vu, which is French for déjà vu."
Vodafone has confirmed that it will soon be offering the Sharp GX20 -the latest incarnation of the Beckham-Schumacher endorsed camera phone - as part of its Vodafone Live! service.Superficially, the handset is similar to its predecessors, the GX10 and GX10i. Sharp has, however, added more features that until now have only been available on Japanese camera phones.It has taken the GX10's display and improved it, with a 240x320 pixel 65,000-colour screen   to enable users to take images of themselves.The handset also features a higher resolution camera - 350,000 pixels as opposed to the 110,000 pixels - of its predecessors.Sharp has also upgraded the camera's display, added video and picture-editing facilities and given the handset triple band capability for roaming in the USA.It will be on sale later this month with prices ranging from &#163;100-&#163;240 with contract. Pay-as-you go models follow next month.
Digital camerasQuick on the drawCasio is claiming its latest four-mega-pixel digital camera is the quickest around. The &#163;350 QV-R40, which goes on sale in the UK next month, apparently powers up in less than one second. The QV-R40 is also said to have an industry-fastest release time (the lapse between pressing the button and the image being taken) of 0.01 second. The aluminium-finished compact camera features 3x optical and 3.2x digital zooms, 30-second movie capture, 10MB of internal memory and a Secure Digital (SD) card slot for adding extra storage.www.casio.co.ukThrow it awayUS company Pure Digital Technologies has won the race to be first to market with a digital version of a disposable camera. Due in US stores very shortly is its $9.99 Dakota Digital, a 2.5 megapixel camera that can take and store up to 25 images - although like traditional digital cameras, you can delete shots you don't want. Perhaps not surprisingly, this cheap digital has no zoom or LCD screen. Users take the camera to a retailer where they receive prints and a photo CD in exchange. No news yet on a UK launch, but it can't be too far away.www.puredigitalinc.com4GB to goIn spite of all the high-profile launches of large storage capacity Memory Sticks and Secure Digital (SD) cards, original flash memory card, CompactFlash, continues to thrive. This week, Lexar announced it would offer a 4GB CompactFlash card (four times as much storage as the top-end MS and SD cards) aimed at enthusiasts and professionals. The type II CompactFlash card will store 600 six megapixel images, but is only compatible with a small range of cameras, like the Canon EOS-10D. The card is expected to cost around &#163;1,300.www.lexar.comGadgetsCheap digital radioPerstel is hoping to bring portable digital radios to the mass market with its BlueNote model, which will retail for just under &#163;100, when it launches this week. Previous digital radios of its size have cost up to twice as much. The ra dio, available from Dixons and Currys, is slightly smaller than an audio cassette, comes with a telescopic aerial and features a four line LED display that delivers station and artist information. Finished in blue, the BlueNote features control buttons on its body and is accompanied by a pair of earphones.www.dixons.co.ukwww.currys.co.ukPics of your fridgeIf, when out shopping, you can never remember exactly what's in the fridge, Electrolux may have the answer. It has developed a system that lets people use a mobile phone to see what is inside their cool box. It features an internet-connected digital camera inside the fridge that can be activated remotely by a mobile. The user then visits a Wap or web site to view a snap of the food they left at home. Although it is only a prototype, Electrolux is confident a commercial product could be available next year. How it will take an image of a very crowded fridge remains to be seen.www.electrolux.co.ukMobile gamingBust your mobilePop punk outfit Busted is to get its own Java mobile game. Busted Manager is a Tamagotchi-style game in which you must cater for the needs of the teen rockers, feeding them, letting them play videogames and ensuring they get to bed on time. It's launched on Monday and will cost &#163;4.50 from Busted.com.Meanwhile French developer Gameloft is bringing its forthcoming PS2 first-person shooter, XIII, to Java phones. The mobile version retains its   big brother's "cell-shaded" visuals and boasts 10 stealth missions and several weapons. It will be available later this month for &#163;4.50 from Gameloft.comNewsSign inA researcher at George Washington University has developed a computerised glove that can turn American Sign Language into text or speech. Jose Hernandez-Rebollar's AcceleGlove can recognise the signing alphabet and some phrases. The glove covers the user's hand and arm, and translates finger and arm movements into a data stream that a computer can convert into text or speech. This can enable profoundly deaf people to communicate with those who cannot read sign language, and to write documents using sign rather than a keyboard.http://home.gwu.edu/~jreboll/sketches_0192.docWrng msgThe Malaysian cabinet last week said it may ban declarations of divorce through electronic media, following an Islamic court's decision that a text message was valid notification. The message in question translated as: "If you do not leave your parents' house, you'll be divorced." The decision relied on Islamic law, which says a man can divorce a woman by saying "I divorce you" three times. However, an editorial in Malaysia's New Straits Times said such action is merely the trigger for divorce proceedings under the country's Islamic family law. "SMS divorces send the wrong messages about Islam and the institution of marriage."http://www.emedia.com.myMEP challengeDutch MEP Johanna Boogerd may take the European Commission to court for breaking European data protection laws. In March, the commission agreed to give US Customs access to passenger name record (PNR) data without travellers' permission, in the face of possible fines and removal of landing rights from the US. PRN data can include credit card numbers, addresses and dietary requirements.Boogerd said : "We need to have a common policy on this issue. We need to do it Europe-wide, and we need it in agreement with our standards."www.rnw.nl/hotspots/html/eu030724.htmlStat of the week: How we navigate the webTheseWebSideStory.comstats show net users are getting a better feel for their favourite places online. Most sites are now found directly - by typing in an address or using a bookmark - than by using a search engine or link.
The vexed question of who was responsible for which claims in the infamous Iraq dossier revolve around minutes, diary entries and tape recordings. But you could also find out who edited it, and when, by looking at the document itself. The same goes for the fake Jamie Oliver cookbook circulating on the net. Many programs store this kind of information as metadata in the file.Metadata doesn't collect information for a sinister purpose and it is often very useful. You can search for files you created on a particular date if you can't remember the file name or the folder you used. Digital photos include the make and model of the camera you used to snap them, and Windows XP copies that EXIF (exchangeable image file format) information with the photo. That means image editing software could correct for the colour gamut or lens characteristics of a particular camera. You can also compare photos taken with a new camera to old favourites, or check the lighting conditions and exposure on a particular shot.But information about who opened a document or when it was last changed could also be useful if there is a dispute about the document. If you send a report in late, telling your boss you had problems with your email system, it is suspicious if the timestamp on the file shows you opened it several hours after you said you had first sent it. The sensible response would be to explain you opened it to check it one last time before you resent it. That won't work if a photograph claiming to show an event turns out to have been taken on a different day.Metadata (or keepware, as some of the programs that save it have been dubbed) adds yet more details to office documents. If a document passes from one machine to another, it can include information about previous edits. Most Microsoft Word documents include a revision log listing the last 10 users who opened the document, and it is usually simple to work out the name of the writer from that. Changing the name of the file doesn't remove the information, and neither does using the Save As command; the revision log shows the name of the file at each stage, and the folder it was in - so you can see if files were copied on to a floppy.Usually this log is hidden, but it is not hard for a programmer to write a utility to retrieve it. When the government published the second dossier on Iraq's security and intelligence in February as a Word document on the Downing St website, one curious reader looked at the revision   log. He retrieved the names of a Foreign Office official, a Downing St official and two people in the prime minister's press office, along with anonymous users at the Communications Information Centre, where the dossier was drafted (and where the material from an old PhD thesis was incorporated).Even without a utility, the file properties tell you the original author, how many times the file has been saved and how long it was open for in Word. They might include the title of an email used to forward the document and to whom it was addressed. As David Bennie, Microsoft UK product marketing manager for Office, has found, this can be embarrassing or amusing: "I've seen PowerPoint presentations where I've thought 'that's really good' and I open it up and the file properties have my name in. My presentation has been re-edited!"When you collaborate on documents, turning on Word's feature to track changes - a feature in most word processors - means that even if they don't include comments, you can see exactly who typed particular sentences or changed individual words when you get the document back. You can use this if you are not sure about the changes you are making. Changing the view shows you the original version with the edits (known as markup) - or the final version with the changes incorporated, but it doesn't delete the comments. If you send the document out without remembering to accept those changes and delete the edits, anyone can turn on markup and see what was changed just before the document was approved.In the current beta of Word 2003, whenever you open a document you didn't create, it automatically opens in the new Reading Layout, with   change tracking and markup switched on to make it easier to collaborate on documents. That means if you forget to accept or delete edits, they will show up automatically.Bennie thinks "people need to be aware that if they're leaving tracked changes and revisions in their document, they need to be taken out at some point". He also points out that you can tell Word to warn you if you have left tracked changes in a document before you print, save or end it, a feature he uses.You can also automatically strip out personal details from the file properties when you save documents, or make hidden markup visible as a reminder when you open or save a document. These options are all in the Security section of the Tools| Options dialog and an IT administrator can set and lock them as part of user policies.Other tell-tale details can lurk in documents. Several word processors, including Microsoft Word, have a Fast Save feature which includes the original text and instructions to hide deleted or changed text rather than saving a file that only contains what is in your document. Saving just the changes means the file saves more quickly but, again, a programmer would be able to retrieve some of the information.Check the notes fields in presentations: these are often a rich source of confidential information put in for background and never removed. Styles, templates, hyperlinks to documents on internal servers and information in headers and footers could also reveal more than you wanted about a document's origins: they are often named for the company that wrote them. And if you have created multiple versions of a document inside a single Word file, remember to delete the ones you don't use.Saving a file as an RTF (rich text format) document will strip out metadata and the other details, or you can do what the government did when it published a report on Iraq in June and distribute it as a PDF (portable document format) file instead. Bennie suggests using Office 2003's Information Rights Management tool to stop people accidentally forwarding documents with confidential information, and says Microsoft is using it internally to protect any document that includes the launch date for the new Office.It isn't just text you need to think about. When you crop images in word processors or desktop publishing programs, the original image is often stored with the document - unless you choose to make changes permanent. American Tech TV presenter Cat Schwartz was caught out by a similar feature when she posted a photograph of herself on her blog. A curious reader who downloaded it found that while she'd cropped the photograph to show just her face, the file appeared to still contain the thumbnail image of an original, considerably more candid photograph.How to minimise metadata in Microsoft Office documentshttp://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;223396Coping with metadata issueswww.microsystems.com/Shares_Well.htm
The internet is coming close to answering the question creative people have been asking for years. Can an individual with a talent for writing, drawing, photography or music use the internet, not to create millions, but to make enough to live comfortably and do what they want to do professionally?What's more, the answer may well turn out to be a hesitant yes. Six years on from the start of the popular web explosion, people are adjusting to paying for content on the internet. The Wall Street Journal, for example, announced last month that its subscriber base had brought in $80m (&#163;50m) last year. Revenues for the online wing of the New York Times have grown more than 20% in this past quarter to $21.6m (&#163;15m): operating profit increased to a record $4.3m (&#163;2.7m). The Guardian started to charge for some services this month. It goes on.But the real excitement isn't with the large content-producing companies. As ever, the real action on the internet is at the fringes, where small content producers are finding that the internet is not only allowing them to make a living doing their thing and selling it directly to the customer, but taking the hard work out of it in the process.The original and most obvious ways of making a living in the creative arts have usually been advertising, sponsorship and patronage, and the internet is no different. Weblogs, once again on the cutting edge of the internet, are starting to move in this direction, with the recent launch of two major advertising services, Google Ad-Sense and BlogAds.Google Ad-Sense is the public   version of the system the search engine has been using for around a year. It provides "text ads" - small, text-only advertisements, tailored to the content of the page they are displayed on - and pays the site owner for every "click-through".Although very new, many people are finding that Google's Ad-Sense is making them money - if not enough to live on, then certainly enough to pay for their site's hosting and bandwidth fees. The most successful are sites that are tightly focused on their subject areas. Advertisers do not buy ads for each site directly, but rather on keywords and topics, and it is up to Google to share out the advertising. A good match between advertisers, site and audience benefits everyone, without the advertising buyer requiring an in-depth knowledge of the subject areas of thousands of individual weblogs and sites. One such site isMobitopia.com, a mobile-phone news publication run by Russell Beattie. On the first day of Google Ad-Sense hosting, he made $35. Not enough to get rich, certainly, but not bad at all.For webloggers wanting to sell advertising more directly,Blogads.comoffers a very simple way to sell space on your site. Webloggers can set their own rates, control how the advertising looks on their pages, and approve or reject potential customers, all without having to deal with tricky business of payment.Patronage, too, is returning as a way of funding the online writing and photography found on the most popular weblogs, although in a somewhat curious manner. Many of the more dubious internet sites - selling online prescriptions or cheap travel deals - are turning to the most popular webloggers with a proposal: link   to us from your front page, and we will give you money. These advertisers differ from those using Google Ad-Sense, or BlogAds, in that they don't care where the links appear on the page, or even if anyone clicks on them. Rather, they are placing them on popular weblogs for the sake of increasing their own sites' ranking within Google. Giving patronage to writers for the sake of acquiring a search engine may not be the classical Renaissance model, but the Medici would have understood.Advertising, however, is not the most cutting edge of business models. For that, we need to visit the concept of micropayments."If you think about it," says graphic artist Scott McCloud, "for any kind of content on the web, the natural price per unit of these things should be under a dollar. So really the market for these things doesn't exist without a micropayment system."A workable micropayment system has historically been the holy grail   for internet content providers. The idea of being able to charge for content worth only pennies has long appealed, with the theory being that given small enough prices, a smooth enough system and compelling enough content, people will be happy to pay a few pence for a good read, a useful program or a fine tune.It is a theory that could well be playing out. McCloud should know: last month he released the first part of an online comic called the Right Number under a beta test of Bitpass, a new micropayment system. To read it costs 25 cents, and with no advance publicity, he had more than 1,000 customers in the first two weeks."We thought that was a good sign," he says, of both the numbers and the positive reviews of the Bitpass system. Those reviews are correct: we also tried the system and found it worked very well indeed. You buy a prepaid account of a few dollars' worth of Bitpass credit, say $5, using your credit card or PayPal account. A   username and password allows you to spend those credits at sites such as McCloud's. Buying credit takes only a minute or so spending it thereafter is as simple as remembering your password. Although still in beta, Bitpass is extremely impressive.The Right Number is not the first comic to be sold online: many of the established newspaper strips offer paid-for email delivery, and other independent artists have clubbed together to offer mass subscriptions.Moderntales.com, for example, offers around 30 titles together for a monthly subscription.But no one has, as yet, proved that micropayments can work. Until now, perhaps. McCloud, whose book Reinventing Comics went some way to introduce the ideas of paid-for internet distribution to the comic industry, says that the systems may well be here for micropayments to break into the mainstream. He had been offered the use of systems before, he says, but they were all flawed. "Some   had too high costs to set up for the vendor, some didn't go low enough in their charges, some took a huge percentage and some took too much info from the consumer," he says, "but Bitpass is very humble - but it's humble in the same way that Google is humble."McCloud is confident that things are starting to turn. Could anyone make a living doing this? "There are probably about a dozen people in online comics who could do so," he says. "All of the signs are good."Buying comics for viewing online is one thing, but what if you want to buy something physical? What if you want to sell atoms and not bits? You need a publisher, right?Not any more. When McCloud's Bitpass trials were exceeding his expectations,CafePress.comannounced the launch of its book service.CafePress has long held a happy place in the heart of the internet creative, offering a print-on-demand service for T-shirts and mugs and similar merchandise. You upload JPegs of your designs, and the site will create an online store to sell them, taking care of the payment, production and delivery, and then giving you a split of the profits.It is a very popular service, and the announcement that CafePress will allow you to upload text files and sell them as books has caused no little excitement in the writerly weblogging community. One writer, the UK-based Andrew Losowsky, is about to publish a print version of his online writings from Barcelona."Bar&#231;aBlog, my weblog, was proving very popular," he says, "and I turned round and realised that I had written 30,000 words. So I thought it   would both make a nice memento of my time in Spain, and also a way of putting my work out there as an up-and-coming writer." His collection of writings and photography will be for sale soon at his site, Prandial.com, distributed via CafePress.CafePress's book publishing service launched last week is remarkably simple to use. Writers lay out their books on their ordinary word processor, choosing their own typefaces and spacing, and then save this as an Adobe Acrobat PDF file. They then upload this file on to the CafePress system from its web page, choose the size, type of binding and price, and CafePress builds an online store for them to sell it from. When a customer orders a copy, the book is printed specially and dispatched from the CafePress warehouse. The difference between the base cost of the printing and distribution, and the price set by the author is then given to the writer.It isn't exactly cheap: a 200-page paperback comes at a base price of $13. "One advantage of this system," Losowsky says, "is that you keep your own copyright. If you were to go through a small publisher, you give up all hope of selling it on to a major house, but printing online protects you from this."But unlike old school writers, or internet-only purists, Losowsky is not treating the internet as print's poor relation, or superior, in any way, but rather sees the two as integrated parts of his business of writing."To be able to send out a book to a future publisher is so much more impressive than a web link, but to be able to send a book and an online audience of thousands to a publisher is even better."&#183;online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Flash mobs started in New York just over a month ago, and have spread to at least 40 cities around the world. The first UK flash mob due to be held today, somewhere in Soho, London.Flash mobs are Python-esque street theatre events organised by email. Big crowds of strangers suddenly materialise at a predetermined location, act out a series of actions and then melt away, leaving bystanders bewildered and amused.The first big flash mob event was held at Macy's department store in downtown New York in June. Someone calling himself Bill sent out an email chain letter inviting people to gather at the store's ninth floor rug department. About 100 people trooped upstairs and stood around discussing a pile of carpets. They left shortly after, without giving the puzzled staff an explanation.Since then, new flash mobs have popped up almost daily in cities around the globe. Boston, Nashville, Rome (the "Italian mob"), Singapore, Amsterdam and Paris are some of the most recent. Flash mobs are also planned in Birmingham, Sheffield and Dublin, as well as London. The craze is concentrated in the US and Europe, especially Germany, where there are events planned in more than 20 cities.So far, flash mobs have been whimsical affairs. Unlike the technology-mobilised anti-globalisation protests in Seattle or Geneva, flash mobs are apolitical. In San Francisco, hundreds of people spun around in circles like children. In Dortmund, a mob invaded a department store and everyone ate a banana.The London mob organiser, who goes by the pseudonym "A Zee", declined to say what he had in mind for the Soho gathering, but hinted it may involve more than one location."I like the whole flocking concept," he said. "I'm organising it because I want to be in one, to be part of the mob. I was in Coriolanus when I was at school and I guess I never got rid of that feeling, to be part of the mob and not one of the actors. One of a million common men just chanting 'to the rock, to the rock' because everyone else is."Part of the flash mob appeal is its inexplicable nature. "Not only is nobody controlling them, but no single person seems to understand them," said Sean Savage, a San Francisco designer who has chronicled their spread on hisCheeseBikini.comweblog.Despite its growth, the flash mob idea may already be losing steam. Already, some gatherings are attracting as many reporters and police as participants. Last week in Berlin, for example, "mobsters" were nearly outnumbered by press and police."It definitely will lose steam if people just keep repeating things that have been done, clapping in   stores and spinning in streets," said Savage. "There's so much more that can be done with this, on much deeper levels. Unless people start coming up with new ideas, this is going to die out quickly."One new idea is the Antimob, suggested by someone who attended a flash mob in Minneapolis.Complaining of the group mental ity and the reliance on scripted behaviour, the anonymous Antimobster suggested a coordinated effort to abandon a location instead of populate it."The concept is the opposite of the Mob Project," he wrote to themob(b)log weblog. "In Antimob, we all agree not to be at a certain location for a brief period of time. If all humanity participates, the sudden ghost town appearance of a place like Grand Central Station or the Motor Vehicle Bureau in Chicago will be stunning. Antimob requires little of its participants, so that billions of people, without even knowing of the non-event, will be participating in this first example of non-performance art."Useful linkwww.geocities.com/londonmobs
Ringing endorsement it was not. The Electoral Commission has concluded that May's big test of e-voting in local elections produced "some evidence that turnout can increase slightly". The increase was impossible to measure, but an "indicative figure" is somewhere between 0 and 5%. Postal voting, by contrast, consistently improved turnouts by 50%.Should we now discard e-democracy as a piece of dotcom hype? Of course not. First, e-democracy, with its potential for involving citizens in local decision-making, is a lot bigger than e-voting and merits investigation. Second, e-voting's failure to increase turnouts instantly doesn't mean it won't play a long-term role.The commission's report says that despite the lack of measurable   effect, e-voting technology generally worked well in May. One triumph was the "remarkably successful" first use of election mark-up language (EML). While two authorities, St Albans and Sheffield, experienced "significant operational problems", these were sorted out on the day.Some areas still need work, the commission says. One challenge is ensuring that polling stations are properly wired up; another is to develop consistent and transparent ways of merging counts from electronic and paper ballots. The report also questions one aspect of IT industry culture: its habit of delivering kit for acceptance testing only an hour before the polls opened. Finally, future pilots should explore scalability and cost.First, however, the government (presumably the new department   for constitutional affairs) should produce a detailed "road map" as to where we're supposed to be going.One suggestion: towards 100% turnout. We could start by adopting all-postal ballots in local elections, subject to safeguards suggested by the commission. These include a change to registration by individuals rather than households, together with explicit warnings about personation. Local authorities would also have to provide staffed "delivery points" for people with questions, or wanting to hand in ballots. These measures apply to all forms of remote voting and could be adapted to e-voting when the time comes.But if we are serious about boosting turnout, there's a painful, but necessary, first step. Make voting compulsory, as in Belgium and Australia. Anyone who really   wants to abstain would make their point much better if the act carried a hefty fine.The other side to compulsion must be convenience. We should be able to cast our vote from any polling station (connected to the proposed shared electronic electoral register), by post and - eventually - by internet.This is not to say compulsion would be popular. It's a good bet that any government passing such a law would lose the subsequent general election (if abstainers are intellectually consistent, that bet becomes a certainty). So the idea would appeal only to a retiring prime minister with little enthusiasm for the chosen successor. And what's the likelihood of that?&#183;The Shape of Elections to Come:www.electoralcommission.gov.uk
We can bet that a popular topic at this week's LinuxWorld conference in San Francisco was whether Linux users should pay SCO a licence fee for Unix. (No!) But that is one of the things SCO wants, and it is suing IBM for $3bn to reinforce the point.Briefly, SCO claims that some of the Unix code, which it owns, has been copied line for line into Linux; that IBM has moved code developed for Unix into Linux; and that some Unix "concepts and methods" have been used in Linux.While they could be hard to prove, it would not be surprising if these claims were true, because what we now call Linux started as a project to clone Unix.When Richard Stallman announced his "Free Unix!" idea on Usenet in 1983, he wrote: "Starting this Thanksgiving I am going to write a complete Unix-compatible software system called GNU (for Gnu's Not Unix), and give it away free to everyone who can use it. Contributions of time, money, programs and equipment are greatly needed."Stallman recognised that a motley collection of unrelated programmers would probably not be able to create a coherent system. "But for the particular task of replacing Unix, this problem is absent," he wrote. "Most interface specifications are fixed by Unix compatibility. If each contribution works with the rest of Unix, it will probably work with the rest of GNU."No one doubts Stallman's integrity, or his ability to write original code: he wrote the GNU C   compiler, debugger and Emacs editor, and created the GPL (General Public License) under which Linus Torvalds released his Linux kernel. However, it could be hard to verify the integrity or even the identity of all who have contributed since.If a commercial company decided to clone a rival product, it would do a "clean room" implementation. It would have one team write the specifications for the interfaces, and a separate team - one made up of people who had not seen the original code, and could not have absorbed its "concepts and methods" - write the programs to match. That guarantees there is no cross-contamination. The open, collaborative nature of GNU/Linux's development made that impossible.It could well be argued that SCO has not made an effective case, or   that it has compromised its case in other ways. The Open Source Development Lab, for which Linus Torvalds now works, has published a position paper by an expert on software copyright law, Professor Eben Moglen, of Columbia University  see link below.It could also be argued that the law is being applied against the public interest. Everybody recognises that there are benefits to sharing programs and code, as well as music and movies, though Hollywood and the giant media corporations are trying to reverse the trend.But until SCO's case is thrown out of court or negotiated away, companies using Linux are at some (very small) risk of being made to pay for what some teenage hackers might have got up to in their bedrooms.Useful linksLinuxWorldStallman's Usenet postOSDL position paper
On the slow roadIt was interesting to see in last week's Online a mention of broadband contention ratios (Fast track to the shires, July 31). I wish I had known about these before I signed up for broadband, as my experience is that it is a bit of a con.Like most domestic users, I believed the advertisements about faster service. However, I didn't understand the significance of statements like "up to 10 times faster than a dial-up service". What this means in practice is that sometimes I get a decent service with fast access, but at other times, probably for the majority of the time, I get a very poor service.I monitor my broadband speeds using theADSLGuide.org.ukspeed test and quite often I get speeds of around 50kbps, at times dropping to speeds of 21kbps.I have complained to my internet provider, Demon, but they never reply to my emails or letters. So what is the consumer to do? Can anyone recommend a decent provider I can go to once my 12-month contract with Demon ends?Konrad BorowskiLondonSound adviceThe owner of a small prestige car-hire company asks whether he should buy a list of email addresses on CD-Rom for bulk emailing (Business Solutions, July 31).The proper answer is a resounding NO! Unless the questioner wishes to join the ranks of porn spammers, get-rich-quick fraudsters, penis-enlargement scammers and the various   imaginary relatives of deceased West African dictators who want to share $50m with a stranger in exchange for their bank account details.If the questioner does send out unsolicited bulk email to people with whom he doesn't already have a business relationship, several bad things are likely to happen.First, he will receive a torrent of angry responses of the "remove me from your &#91;expletive&#93; mailing list" variety. These will outnumber the responses he is hoping for.Then, he will find his company's domain name blacklisted by a range of anti-spam activists. He will find that he can no longer send email to some of his legitimate customers, because their ISPs use the blacklists to block spam from his ISP.Finally, he has almost certainly violated the terms of his contract with his ISP by sending bulk email, so he may soon find himself without email or a website at all.Dr David HarperCambridgeTurn it off!Mary Branscombe's article (I'm on my way, July 31) about the uses of mobile telephone location data, while fascinating in an Orwellian sense, neglected to mention the simplest way to elude (and disappear from) the system: just turn your phone off.Terry HigginsEssexDesigner cheekIn his recent columns, Jack Schofield has hit the web design nail on the head, and unsurprisingly irritated more than a few faux "web designers" (Column, July 31).A proper, professional web developer can create websites that are usable, accessible to users with disabilities, good-looking, quick to download and compliant with international standards. In particular, Cascading Stylesheets (CSS) can, if used imaginatively and creatively, enable designers to develop usable, standards-compliant, yet visually pleasing websites without using a    single Flash animation or packing pages with images (seewww.meyerweb.com/eric/css/edge). Such professional web design, though, requires patience, technical know-how and experience, qualities lacking among "cool" designers.Fred RileyHullScreen tooJack Schofield asks: "Are most commercial websites designed by children?" (Column, July 31).  No, but most marketing departments are run by idiots.  Does Schofield seriously believe that the "accessible" version of the Odeon website would ever have been commissioned by most marketing departments in preference to the "cool" version - it's about as likely as the posters outside the cinema being produced in Braille.Gus ScottLighten upI read with interest Jack Schofield's column, in particular the references to the Odeon website.  A little over a year ago, I went for an interview for a web design job at a London firm with very nice offices. One of the tasks I had to achieve to gain the interview was to prepare a presentation about how I would improve an existing website. I chose the Odeon website because of my past frustration with it and their automated telephone booking service.I suggested that the website was dark and gloomy, when film is all about providing entertainment, and that the functionality of the site was appalling. It turned out that the firm I was applying for a job with had the contract to design the Odeon's site, though I never worked out if they had just got the contract for the redesign or were responsible for the mess which iswww.odeon.co.uktoday. Strangely, I didn't get the job!Toby FluxCzech Republic
