On 15 June, Google will officially take the next step on its road to global domination. From that day onwards, online shoppers will be able to buy theGoogle Chromebook, a device that the search giant hopes will change the way we think about computers – and in the process rain on the parades of Apple and Microsoft.On the face of it, the Chromebook seems an unlikely game-changer. Its first two manifestations – from electronics giants Samsung and Acer – look like any old netbook: thin (0.79in) clamshell design, 12.1in screen, standard-sized keyboard, trackpad. At 3.2lb, it's not particularly light. The claimed battery life (8.5 hours for the Samsung version) is pretty good, but otherwise the Google machine looks rather conventional.The surprises start when you hit the on button. Whoosh! It boots in eight seconds from cold (and wakes in less than a second from sleep mode). And it brings up a web browser (Google's own Chrome browser, naturally) straight away. There's an annoying dialogue box in the middle of the screen inviting you to sign into your Gmail account. So you move to put it away because you want to see what other programs come with the machine. Then the penny drops. There don't seem to be any other programs: well, no serious ones anyway. The browser is effectively all you've got. That and a WiFi or 3G connection to the internet.If this were a film, then the screen would go blurry at this point, signifying a flashback. We're back in 1993. The internet is still something exotic, a preserve of geeks and Comp Sci researchers. Two years ago Tim Berners-Lee launched something called the world wide web which caused a bit of a stir in those rarefied circles, but left the rest of the world cold. You navigated it by using the arrow keys on the keyboard and hitting return whenever you came on a string of characters beginning "http://". This took you to another screenful of text with more of these character strings. Big deal.But now it's 1993 and a kid called Marc Andreessen has just launched a new kind of program which gives you a graphical window onto this web thingy. He calls it Mosaic, and the moment people see it they suddenly "get" the web. So demand for access to the internet explodes, and a technology entrepreneur named Jim Clark hires Andreessen and his student friends and sets up Netscape and they write a new browser called Navigator and they're off to the races. Netscape has a frenzied stock market flotation in August 1995 and triggers the first internet boom. Suddenly Clark and Andreessen are sitting atop the hottest company in the technology world.As their enterprise grew, the Netscape boys had what James Joyce called an epiphany – a sudden, blinding flash of insight: that most people could do most of the computing they needed in a browser. Clark and Andreessen saw a future in which the PC, with its complex and crash-prone operating system, would simply serve as a life-support system for a browser. And if that were the case, then who needed a full-blown operating system?The only problem was that Microsoft, the 800lb gorilla of the computing business, had built an empire round operating systems, which meant that Netscape's epiphany represented a mortal threat. So Bill Gates &amp; Co set about destroying the upstart rival with a brutal efficiency that eventually landed them with the antitrust suit that nearly resulted in the breakup of the company. But by the time the US Department of Justice got round to prosecuting Microsoft, Netscape had been crushed, and the vision of the browser at the heart of everything was airbrushed from the record. End of flashback.With hindsight, we can see that Netscape was too far ahead of the curve. For the browser to become the centre of the computing universe, a number of other conditions had to be met, of which the most important was universal broadband connectivity. And there wasn't much of that back in 1995-6. The other thing that was missing at the time was what we now call "cloud computing" – the technology that enables processing to be done not by one's PC or laptop but by huge server-farms located out there on the internet.Coincidentally, tomorrow sees Apple's first big move into the cloud. At the annual Apple Developers' conference in San Francisco Steve Jobs will launch the company's iCloud service which will enable subscribers to upload their iTunes libraries and stream tracks over the net to wherever they happen to be. In theory this is similar to the "digital locker" services offered by bothAmazon and Google, but in practice it has one major advantage: Amazon and Google have struggled – and largely failed – to persuade the record labels to license streaming whereas Apple, the dominant player in legal downloads, seems to have obtained the labels' agreement.But streaming music from the cloud is relatively small beer compared with what Google has in mind for the Chromebook.Its launch signals the company's belief that the conditions necessary to put the browser at the centre of our computing universe have now been met. Chromebook users can do most of the things they do with PCs and laptops without storing anything on their machines. And they can do it all in the browser that now serves not just as a window onto the world wide web, but as a gateway to what one might call the world wide computer.Underpinning Chromebook is a conjecture: that there is a big market – both domestic and corporate – for hassle-free computing. Most people (so the argument goes) don't want to grapple with the spam, malware, operating system updates, security patches and hard-disk failures that come with running a PC.  But up to now they've had few alternatives. The same goes for companies and organisations, which have discovered that providing IT support for hundreds or thousands of users is an unremitting, expensive and thankless task. Google purports to offer an escape from this nightmare. As its co-founder Sergey Brin puts it: "The complexity of managing your computer is torturing users. It's a flawed model fundamentally. Chromebooks are a new model that doesn't put the burden of managing your computer on yourself." Every time you boot up a Chromebook, it will have the latest version of its software and the newest security patches. Google will filter out the spam and check attachments for viruses. And if your machine breaks, or is stolen, all your data will be OK, because it will be stored (and backed up) in Google's cloud. All you need to do is get a replacement Chromebook, log in and – bingo! – you're back to where you left off.You can buy aChromebook for about £350. But the more intriguing option is that of regarding it more like a mobile phone – ie, getting one on a monthly contract. In what is clearly an attack on Microsoft's home turf, Google is offering companies a deal: for $28 per user per month, they get free Chromebooks, technical support, replacement under warranty and regular hardware updates. A monthly deal is being offered to schools and universities for $20 per student.The Chromebook is the latest step in an evolutionary path from the open, programmable PC to the closed, tethered information appliance. In that sense, it's very like Apple's iDevices – machines that offer security and reliability in return for abject submission to Apple's control. If Chromebooks succeed, they will give Google a comparably powerful position in the computing universe. The comparison with the iPad is particularly interesting, because iPads have proved surprisingly popular in the corporate world, despite the limitations which render them effectively useless for some important organisational tasks (spreadsheet modelling, for example).  With their non-virtual keyboards and more powerful web-based applications, Chromebooks might be a more attractive option for many companies, especially given estimates that their total-cost-of-ownership (TCO) per user ($336) might be only a tenth of the TCO of a conventional PC. In the business world, that kind of money talks.For the rest of us, the attractiveness of Chromebooks will depend mainly on whether wireless and 3G networks can provide the ubiquity, speed and responsiveness that make a web appliance useable.  Sadly, these are things beyond our control. And beyond Google's, too. The path to world domination can be rocky.
ChristwireChristwire is a bit like satirical news site The Onion, except every story is written from the point of view of a homophobic conservative Christian. Considering that vast swathes of US media subscribe to a similar life view, plenty of the stories here run the risk of being just a little too believable. Amid the scaremongering tales of satan, commies and "the gay agenda", there's some classic dry comedy. The Faith Links section includes visits to such roadside attractions as The Living Bible Museum, home of the world's most horrific waxworks, and there's an article explaining why vajazzling is "the newest threat to your college son".If It Were My HomeIf It Were My Home, comparison map of Brazil on UK.Ever wondered what your life would be like if you'd been born and raised in a completely different country? This ingenious website will give you a little statistical snapshot by comparing your home nation with practically everywhere else on the planet. For example, if France were your base instead of the UK, you would use "23.73% less electricity". You'd also "live 1.93 years longer" but be "two times more likely to have HIV/Aids". There are lots of other bits of national data, most startling when you start probing less wealthy nations – you'd die 17.78 years sooner if you'd been born in Haiti. As well as the percentages, there are maps that compare the sizes of countries, as well as further reading and some lively debate.Blog roll: World musicAbelardo Barroso cover from Global Groovers.Global GrooversVintage music from around the world with a special emphasis on 1970s and 1980s Afropop.The Idols Of K PopA sugary tribute to South Korean bubblegum pop.Holy WarblesAn enchanted junk shop featuring everything from Iranian psychedelia to Nigerian funk.Cartilage ConsortiumVideos of forgotten Euro composers, Anime scores, Middle Eastern pop, "creepy disco" and all manner of exotic wonder.End Of WorldExploring Mexican traditional folk, one found cassette at a time.Swedes PleaseAs well as Abba, it seems Sweden remains the spiritual home of wonky pop and spooky folk.What we learned on the web this weekThom Yorkeunderwear is such a turn-offWhat catsget up to when you're not homeThe greatestYahoo Answers of 2011What happenedto Jar Jar BinksThe rootof all knowledge is philosophyThe evolutionof Johnny DeppSome breakinganimal news10 modernfilms that are better in black and whiteWhat they'relistening to in Times SquareWhy everyonewants to have sex with vampires
Sega Rally Online Arcade, Xbox 360With little to distract solo players, this latest riff on Sega's formerly resplendent rally franchise is all about multiplayer events on tracks and cars made familiar by the series. It goes for an unabashedly arcade feel, eschewing the grit and authenticity of DiRT 3 in favour of a smoother, floatier handling model that won't have you troubling the brakes too often. Even though it's only just been released, it can be a chore connecting to decent matches online and even when you do find other players, server lag and glitches frequently make races a surreal comedy of cars teleporting madly around the track, adding an unwelcome random element that doesn't stay funny for long. While not abject in its awfulness, this is no classic.Sega, 800MSP (approx £6.80)DOFUS: Battles HD, iPadDOFUS: Battles HD.Based on the French and (over here, anyway) largely unheard-of, massively multiplayer online game, DOFUS: Battles requires no knowledge of its source material to enjoy its tactically intensive, Plants Vs Zombies-style combat. Before each wave of enemies turns up, you place your defenders on a grid, earning crystals by killing baddies, which you can spend on more troops, using the time between fights to upgrade weapons and armour. Getting to know each of your 12 very distinct character classes is essential for victory in engagements that start off testing and rapidly become brutal, requiring a variety of approaches to get through its 28 levels in easy mode, let alone take on its harder settings.Ankama, £3.49To-Fu: The Trials Of Chi, iPad &amp; iPhoneTo-Fu: The Trials Of Chi.Stretch your Samurai-headband-attired block of tofu and release your finger to ping him towards delicious blobs of chi, while avoiding his natural enemies, the iron spikes and spinning blades that bedeck increasing proportions of each level. Add crumbling blocks, conveyor belts, laser beams, switches, rotating platforms, Portals-style teleports and the ability to slide down glass and rebound from metal and you get an increasingly dynamic and satisfying set of puzzles to solve. Lovingly animated and cheerfully inventive throughout, it's highly polished entertainment.HotGen Ltd, iPad £1.79, iPhone 59pGames newsSuper Street Fighter IV Arcade Edition.Originally slated for release in 1998,Duke Nukem Foreveris finally almost here and if the first few levels are anything to go by, it's not only much louder and lewder, but comes with a blissful level of self-awareness …Also out this week isSuper Street Fighter IV: Arcade Edition, the current most complete version of the fighting game that reinvented beat 'em-ups; and for those of a mellower disposition,Sims 3: Generationslets players expand their virtual family experience with everything from weddings to mid-life crises. Hilarity, presumably ensues …The reveal trailer forModern Warfare 3, depicting what looks like hefty domestic destruction in America, Britain, France and Germany, is already poking the tabloid hornet's nest of uninformed ire, while across the pond,E3, the western world's biggest industry-only games shindig kicks off on Tuesday, with rumoured announcements that  could include a successor to the Wii …
This would be the poshest car I've ever&nbsp;driven – ever been in probably – if&nbsp;it&nbsp;weren't for that Bentley I had the other day. But because of that it feels I'm on a downward trajectory, socioeconomically speaking. What, no walnut picnic tables? It costs less than £100,000? Pah!Still, I'll have to make do, I&nbsp;suppose. And its arrival is timely; I'm off to a stud farm in Newmarket and this feels like the right car to be going in. The stud belongs to a&nbsp;sheikh, and there's something of Arab wealth about the Mercedes CL&nbsp;coupe. Expensive but not super-ostentatious, luxurious, fast. It's more elegant than its four-door S-Class sister.The Mercedes CL eats up motorway miles with effortless disdain. There's little for the driver to do – the car monitors the traffic around, keeps a safe distance from the car in front. It can even steer me back into my lane if I wander into the neighbouring one, though to be honest I didn't figure out how to implement that particular safety feature, Active Lane-Keeping Assist, it's called. Anyway, I'm still pretty much redundant, I'll watch a&nbsp;movie… Oh, they've made it so only the person in the front passenger seat can watch films when the car is going along. Well, I'm not doing anything here, I may as well go and sit over there.Off the motorway, and this car is more fun. There's more to do, and it feels remarkably agile for such a big beast. A big powerful beast – 435&nbsp;horsepower, but refined horsepower; thoroughbred horsepower.At the imposing gates of the sheikh's stud, the security guard raises the barrier and waves me straight through, mistaking me for the right kind of person from my car, I imagine. That wouldn't have happened if I'd come in our old Polo,&nbsp;with the moss growing on the&nbsp;roof. Driving slowly along the drive, through immaculate paddocks where shiny mares graze and their new foals skip, it all feels, well, right really.Later, in the "covering shed", I&nbsp;witness horse sex. This is for work (kinda), not just for kicks, promise. The fella horse is pretty impressive, with his shuddering flanks and all the rest of it. It's nice to know that on the way home I'll have 435 of him available to me, under my right foot. Brrrmmmprrr (that's like a cross between the rumble of a 4.6-litre V8 engine and a horse snort).One go with this particular stallion, Dubawi, costs a little over&nbsp;half the price of the car. Two equestrian shags, or a Mercedes CL500 coupe. It's a close one: Dubawi is magnificent, but I think I'll take the car.Mercedes-Benz CL500Price£97,415Top speed155mphAcceleration0-62mph in 4.9 secondsAverage consumption29.7mpgCO2 emissions224g/kmEco rating4/10At the wheelGiddyup
Namco Bandai has confirmed that Dark Souls, the action RPG follow-up to 2009's sleeper hit, Demon's Souls, will be released in Europe on October 7. Along with the standard version, Namco is producing a limited editon package for those who pre-order; it will contain an art book, a mini-strategy guidebook, behind-the-scenes videos and the game's soundtrack for digital download.To celebrate the announcement, the publisher has also released a new trailer. Witness the size of those monsters...
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I suppose if we're talking technology and not product then it's the light-sensitive chip, which is the key thing that allows digital photography and film-making. It's the key thing that's brought the documentary back to the big screen. It's provided an affordable route to producing pictures of a high-enough definition for cinemas.When was the last time you used it, and what for?It was actually doing the DVD extras for my film The Flaw – which, oddly enough, was an interview with me.What additional features would you add if you could?I think that what's really needed is for the technology to settle down to a universal format, or codec. The systems are very proprietary so getting the pictures off the camera onto the editing system can be very fiddly, It's also important for the purposes of archive, because if you're not careful, you'll have no way of extracting the media in 10 years. I think we're some years away from that because it's still developing so fast.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, I hope that by then we will have a universal format. But no, this is definitely the future. What will be obsolete, I'm afraid, is celluloid – I don't think anyone will shoot on film for anything in 10 years' time.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Chargers. I'm on the road a lot, and you've got the mobile phone, the laptop, the Kindle and all this stuff – and they've all got different chargers. It adds to the weight of everything I have to cart around, and I often find I've got the wrong one. So I want a universal charger – or perhaps a better battery.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I never really liked the VHS video recorder. Like everybody in TV, I could never get it to work. The main problem with that was that the tapes were never properly labelled.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I think you need to find someone who's already using it in the way that you intend to use it. It's better to have a person than a manual, but you need to find the right person.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm not a nerd, because I'm basically interested in what the technology can do rather than how it does it. I used to be a bit of a luddite, but I'm becoming less of one.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Well, I suppose that would be one of the Sony HDV cameras a few years ago, which was bought by my production company.Mac or PC, and why?My laptop is a Macbook Air, and I really love it for its hardware – the battery life and all the rest of it. But funnily enough, I bought my wife a new laptop with Windows 7, and I think in many respects that Windows now is a much better operating system. So Mac for hardware and Windows for software.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do both, but yes, I do still buy DVDs. For example I have a Kindle, so I download books a lot. But any book I like, I buy the physical one as well. The last DVD I bought was the box set of The Pacific, but I haven't watched it yet.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I covet the digital Leica, but it's frightfully expensive.•David Sington's new documentaryThe Flawis in cinemas now
Thousands of new apps and games are released every week, so here's our latest selection of the cream of the crop. Where games are available on more than one platform, the link will go to the developer or publisher's website – but you can find the apps by searching on the various app stores.VevoiPhone, iPad, Android, freeRemember the days when you caught new music videos on MTV or Top Of The Pops? They're gone. Vevo launched its website in the UK recently, and is aiming to become the main discovery point for new and old music videos. Its smartphone and tablet apps are slick and effective, offering a wide selection of videos, and good search features to dig down to favourites. It's particularly impressive on the iPad, with its touchscreen interface making the most of the large screen.ZinioAndroid, iPhone, iPad, freeDigital magazine store Zinio has been available on iOS for some time, but has gone live this week for Android tablets too. In contrast to the bells'n'whistles approach of apps for mags like Wired, here what you're getting is essentially the print edition. That's not a criticism, mind. Zinio has a big selection of magazines from the UK and elsewhere, with a choice of buying single issues or full subscriptions.NHS DirectiPhone, Android, freeIf you've ever used the NHS Direct website or phone-line to investigate an ailment, you may well be interested in its new app. All the symptom checkers from the website are included, from burns and bites through to chest pain and flu. This app isn't about multimedia fripperies, naturally – it's about getting to information quickly in order to decide whether you need to get to a doctor or hospital, or simply settle down on the sofa with a Lemsip. It does its job very well on that front.Icebreaker HockeyiPhone, £1.79Backbreaker Football was a big hit on iPhone and iPad, mainly because it condensed American Football into a casual game that anyone could understand – backed by excellent 3D graphics. Icebreaker Hockey looks to do the same thing for ice hockey, and succeeds. Viewed from behind your player, the aim is to skate down the rink, avoiding defenders before battering the puck past the goalkeeper. The touchscreen controls are easy to pick up, but the game offers a decent test with its 50-wave Challenge mode.Contract KilleriPhone, iPad, Android, freeContract Killer is one of a new generation of mobile games that combine hardcore gameplay with the social features and "freemium" pricing popularised by Facebook. In this case, you play the titular contract killer, armed with a variety of guns to dispatch your targets. You earn cash for each hit, with 17 story missions and an unlimited number of randomly-generated missions to build up your character. You can play a decent amount of the game for free, but in-app payments for virtual cash become increasingly necessary as you progress, which may turn some gamers off.Audi UK's Guide to Le Mans 2011iPhone, iPad, Android, freePetrolheads getting excited about this month's Le Mans event now have an app to fuel their anticipation further. The focus is on Audi's team for the race, promising news, commentary and stats during the event on 11-12 June. However, the headline feature – and the one we sense people will be showing off to friends most – is the augmented reality aspect. Print out an AR target from Audi's website, and you can race virtual cars on your real desk. A novelty? Sure, but it's a fun take on a technology that's still finding its niche.British AirwaysWindows Phone, freeBA has released apps on other platforms before, but its new Windows Phone app marks a new high. The airline's app fits in seamlessly with the Windows Phone user interface, as you swipe between screens to check flight details, view airport maps and check in for flights. Members of BA's Executive Club can also download a mobile boarding pass to be scanned through security, while also accessing details of their account. When the app was unveiled recently, Microsoft teased a future feature that will let you pick a seat via a 3D first-person view of the plane. Even without that at launch, the new app is an essential download for WP-owning frequent flyers.
An American commercial patent research company says it plans to seek out "prior art" to invalidate a patent being used by MacroSolve to sue Apple, Android and BlackBerry app developers, and has invited developers to join in the search, the Guardian can reveal.Anyone who discovers earlier information that leads to the patent's withdrawal could winbetween$5,000and $20,000from Article One Partners, which is leading the search.MacroSolve is one of two companies known to be suing app developers at present; the other, Lodsys,filed a number of lawsuits earlier this weekagainst a number of Apple developers and one Android developer over the technology for in-app purchases.MacroSolve, which holds a patent relating to collection and transmission of data for online questionnaires, filed suit against 10 companies in April.Article One Partners, based in New York, uses crowdsourcing techniques and pays rewards of thousands of dollars to people who can uncover "prior art" – demonstrating that the methods claimed in a patent have actually been used before.Such examples invalidate a patent and therefore make any lawsuits, and payments related to the patents, null and void. It counts Microsoft among its clients, and has recently begun an invalidation search against Interval Licensing, which is claiming infringement by Microsoft, Apple and Google."We believe the Article One model benefits more than just the clients. This study is a prime example of how different parties – application developers and the general public – can participate in solving a potentially costly problem that impacts the burgeoning mobile app marketplace," said Cheryl Milone, chief executive of Article One Partners, in a statement to the Guardian.Patent threats against smartphone app developers have emerged as a serious threat to the burgeoning ecosystem, because many are small businesses which do not have the finances or time to contest a patent claim, and could be put out of business by large demands for licencing fees from patent holders.Invalidating such patents, or threatening to do so, may turn out to be app developers' most useful weapon if more examples of patent threats emerge against them. Striking out patents would destroy the revenue model of so-called "patent trolls" who own patents and wait for companies to emerge which apparently infringe their technology and demand a licence fee.Aseparate analysisby M•Cam, an asset management firm, suggests that MacroSolve's patent may not be as broad as the company is claiming in its lawsuits, because other patents filed in 1997 and 1998 appear to overlap it. One of those was filed by Jeff Hawkins, inventor of the Palm Pilot, while at 3Com. M•Cam also lists more than a dozen other patents, many held by IBM, which precede MacroSolve's and would significantly narrow its applicaability.M•Cam's analysis of Lodsys's patent, meanwhile, suggests that there are patents dating back more than a decade, and so still in force, which could either invalidate it or limit its validity to app developers. It also identifies 18 patents filed over the past 20 years by organisations as diverse as the US government and AT&amp;T that could constitute prior art.Article One distributes its challenges to more than 1 million people worldwide to research the validity of patents, and says that it had awarded $1.36m to people who have helped in its prior art searches since it set up in 2008.In December it launched another "invalidation" crowdsourcing attempt againstNTP, a company which successfully sued BlackBerry maker RIMand gained a $612m settlement in 2006. Since then it has filed suit against 13 other companies, including Apple, Microsoft, Google, Yahoo, AT&amp;T, Motorola and Palm.MacroSolve – based in Montreal, Canada –holds three US patentsgained in 2003.Article One Partners did not say on whose behalf, if anyone's, the prior art search is being carried out.Prior art does not have to be a pre-existing patent claim; it is sufficient under US and European law for the methods that the patent represents to have been published anywhere in the world and in any language, including newspaper reports, textbooks, or public documents.People who are considering filing patents are always warned not to document them publicly before filing for them because of the potential for invalidation in future; even a conference report can be sufficient for a challenge.However, the US Patent Office has had serious challenges simply processing the number of patent filings submitted in the past 20 years, and is known not to be exhaustive in its search for prior art.That leaves space for companies such as Article One Partners to find evidence that can shoot down patents and save companies facing lawsuits significant amounts.• People who want to join the search canregister at Article One's site, andview its patent studyonline.Note: the headline and content of this article was altered at 2150 on Friday 3 June. The bounty for finding prior art is $5,000, not $20,000.
When Roland Bunce enteredNext's model competition, he may not have had the highest hopes.The 24-year-old computing science graduate, who lives in Belfast, is perhaps not what might be considered classically handsome, yet thanks to his confident smile and kindly visage – and tens of thousands of social media users – he is now the most voted for entrant.Next's competition invites modelling hopefuls tosubmit a picture of themselvesonline. Visitors to the site can then vote for their favourite, with the eventual winner being treated to £2,000 of Next gift cards and "the chance to star in a Next photoshoot".At 9am on Friday, Bunce – who according to his Facebook profile enjoys partying and drinking (his interests are listed as WrestleMania, Wrestling and WWE Wrestling) – was in first position, andhis page on Next's sitehad been liked on Facebook over 26,000 times. In contrast the page for the person in second place had been liked 97 times.AFacebook page to support Bunce's bidfor stardom has also been established, with the Northern Ireland man having 337 fans at the time of writing."Hope you win show folk that you don't have to be size zero to be a model," wrote Sam Lawless."Good luck Roland! Fed up of seeing stick thin someone else's ideal models," Stuart Parry posted.However over onNext's own Facebook page,not everyone was happy."I'd just like to say that the people voting to keep Roland B at number one for a laugh do you realise by doing that you are ruining someones chance who really wants to go far in this competition you are taking someone else's place there are guys and girls who will miss out becasue [sic] of this silly voting and its just simply not fair where do you expect to go with it," was Cheryl Westerman's sobering contribution.Westerman may want to have checkedthe competition's regulations– as well as her spelling – before writing that post, as Bunce faces a substantial obstacle before actually being crowned as Next's top model.The online public vote is to merely select a top 250 hopefuls, who are then whittled down to 50 by a "panel of judges", before two winners are selected from that shortlist.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhere Did Groupon's Billion Dollars Go? &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"The details: Groupon raised a total of $946 million in two funding rounds last winter. It kept $136 million of it help run the money-losing company. The remaining $810 million was paid out, via stock purchases, to CEO Andrew Mason and some of his backers, including Eric Lefkofsky, and, notably, the Samwer brothers, who sold their CityDeal company to Groupon in 2010."Lenovo exec sees a lot to like in Windows 8, but betting on Android, too &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"'The part that makes me most excited is not just the new look, but along with that comes features like always-on, always-connected, which really to me addresses a big sore point of the traditional PC,' [Lenovo product exec Peter Hortensius] said. 'I have to boot it and I have to then restore connections.'"Hortensius said he isn't too worried that businesses will be scared off by the new tiled start-screen that accompanies the traditional Windows desktop. Nor does he think it is that big a deal that Microsoft isn't allowing customers an option of just booting into a more traditional Windows desktop.'If business customers want that, they already have that,' he said. 'It's called Windows 7.'"That won't help sales of Windows 8.Stephen Elop's Nokia Adventure &gt;&gt; BusinessWeekFantastic piece of business reporting, getting inside the story of what has happened inside Nokia - and to Stephen Elop - in the past year."We can catch up with our competitors..." &gt;&gt; DilbertThanks @ynkish, who thought this was appropriate for Microsoft's Windows 8 announcement. (Published: December 2009.)Does the phone market forgive failure? &gt;&gt; AsymcoThe fascinating point that nobody else has pulled out: Nokia's forecast that it might not make a profit (ie, might make a loss) in the current quarter wouldn't matter... except..."..xcept for the strange fact that as far as I've been able to observe, any company in the mobile phone market that ended up losing money has never recovered its standing in terms of share or profit (i.e. AMP index value has never recovered)."Dediu then lists the 13 (thirteen!) mobile phone companies since 2003 that, having dipped into loss, never came back to former glories.Apple to malware authors: Tag, you're It! &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityAbout eight hours after the bad guys altered their product, Apple came back with an update. "As the cat-and-mouse game continues it will be interesting to see how the attackers proceed. The major change to bypass detection yesterday was to use a small downloader program to do the initial infection, then have that program retrieve the actual malware payload."This approach may be successful as it will be easier for them to continually make small changes to the downloader program to evade detection while leaving the fake anti-virus program largely unchanged."Why is this important? Apple's XProtect is not a full anti-virus product with on-access scanning. XProtect only scans files that are marked by browsers and other tools as having been downloaded from the internet."If the bad guys can continually mutate the download, XProtect will not detect it and will not scan the files downloaded by this retrieval program."And they can mutate it, for sure.Rihanna and Hayden Panettiere sex video spreads Mac malware on Facebook &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityFacebook is the new medium for malware propagation. Interesting that this gang is now trying it there. What's intriguing is whether they're pushing it as far as they can for a short term gain, or if they're in it for the long haul.Software patents: enough is enough &gt;&gt; Fred Wilson"I believe that software patents should not exist. They are a tax on innovation. And software is closer to media than it is to hardware. Patenting software is like patenting music."He's very angry about Lodsys's patent attack on developers.Google's Eric Schmidt: Microsoft 'not driving the consumer revolution' &gt;&gt; GeekWire"Schmidt sees a "gang of four" companies providing the major consumer technology platforms -- Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon." And, very specifically, not Microsoft.Stephen Elop: 'Look out Apple' &gt;&gt; The Globe and MailFrom the end of May: "Elop, a native of nearby Ancaster and an engineering grad, has ascended through the innovate-or-die technology sector to become CEO of the biggest cellphone manufacturer in the world. But Elop isn't celebrating his laurels here today. Speaking to the crowd, he weaves one hell of a gripping narrative about the future: how he will save Nokia Corp. from total destruction."He does have a nice response to "you're a Trojan Horse" theory: "have you been to the Grassy Knoll?"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's the last Friday before E3!
Online discount coupon service Groupon has confirmed plans to go public, announcing its intention to raise an estimated $750m (£460m) on the US stock markets and become the latest, and largest, social media firm so far to feed an investor frenzy for new technology companies.Groupon, a three-year-old Chicago-based start-up, is by some measures the fastest growing firm in history. It notched up revenue of $94m in 2008, its first year of business. In the first quarter of 2011, revenues were $644.7m, according to information filed with US regulators.The company sells coupons offering discounts, taking a cut in any money the business makes. It now has 83m subscribers across 43 countries.In a letter to potential investors, Groupon's co-founder and chief executive, Andrew Mason, warned future growth could come at the expense of profit. Last year, the company lost $450m, compared with $6.9m in 2009 and $2.2m in 2008."In the past, we've made investments in growth that turned a healthy, forecasted quarterly profit into a sizeable loss," said Mason. "When we see opportunities to invest in long-term growth, I expect that we will pursue them regardless of certain short-term consequences."The company warned it had lost money since its inception and it expected operating expenses to grow for some time. "We cannot be certain that we will be able to attain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis," the filing said. But mounting losses have so far failed to put off investors. The value of Groupon and other social media sites including Facebook and gaming company Zynga have soared as investors have clamoured to get in on the action.Groupon rejected a $6bn bid from Google last December and went on to raise $1bn from institutional investors. Analysts have recently pegged the company's value at $25bn.The share sale looks set to create a new set of dotcom millionaire and billionaires as Groupon's investors and early employees see their shareholdings turn into paper fortunes. Groupon's largest shareholder, Eric Lefkofsky, a co-founder and board member, owns 64.1m shares, 21.6% of the company's Class A common stock. Mason controls 7.7% of the company.The Groupon filing follows the sale of LinkedIn, the business network. It went public on 19 May at $45 a share and its stock soared to more than $100 on the first day of trading. , LinkedIn shares traded around $79, giving it a market capitalisation of about $7.5bn.Facebook, the biggest social networking site is expected to go public next year and has seen its valuations soar from $60bn to $100bn in less than a year.
Hey look! It's a brand spanking-new multi-touch interface for Microsoft Windows! Being demoed by Julie Larson-Green at the AllthingsD Conference!Wow - she's showing off the multi-touch functionality, and drawing a tree, and demoing a fantastic system where you can pinpoint places on the Earth and they then come up in searches, and you can multi-touch and drag the map and expand it. Obviously, it's an example of the sort of app that you could write for it. Or there's a virtual piano!"A more natural way of interacting with the computer," she calls it: "interact a little bit different with the computer than you have in the past." And yes, that functionality is all built in.Because, she says, multi-touch is "super-important" and it's much faster than using the mouse in some circumstances: "with touch we can directly manipulate things on the screen."And "you're going to see this on all kinds of shapes and sizes of computers". Obviously, you need a computer that's got the right sort of screen - you can't just use an old one. Well, you can if you add a digitizer.Yes,have a look:You may have noticed a couple of things about this video. First of all, Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer are in it, right at the beginning. And also, Larson-Green talks about Windows ...7.Seven?Oh, wait. That's because it's from May 2008 - three years ago. And what's she's showing off is an early demo of Windows 7, which finally shipped in 2009. Look: multi-touch and everything.And now ask yourself: how many of these features do you use when you use Windows 7? Do you often find yourself using the multi-touch functionality to paint a tree, or spin a globe?We're betting: not at all.So what's the lesson? That it's always worth remembering that "any sufficiently well-rehearsed demo is indistinguishable from magic". And that when it comes to demos of upcoming versions of Windows at the ATD Conference, pinches of salt are helpful in determining just how much the future is really going to look like it is presented.That doesn't take away from the fact that the video and thepresentation of "Windows 8" looked very nice. But it's highly likely that millions of users of Windows 8 (if that's what it gets called) will never see or use that touch interface. It's a salutary reminder: don't believe what the demos promise. Believe what you actually get.
The high-levelGmail hacking attacksthat Google has blamed on China were first made public more than three months ago.The attacks were exposed by Mila Parkour, an IT worker and blogger, on her "personal interest blog"Contagioin February."I just shared my analysis, hoping it might help others," Parkour – who posts under a pseudonym – told the Guardian.On Wednesday Googleused its own blogto allege that Chinese hackers have stolenGmail login detailsof hundreds of senior US and South Korean government officials, as well as Chinese political activists.Google said that as well as using its own security systems it relied on user reports and an "external report" to uncover the Gmail-hacking attacks.The external report it referred to was a post by Parkour on 17 February."I did not officially notify Google as it was not a new type of attack," the blogger said. "I did a mini research and analysis and posted the findings as I heard it happened to other people in the military and the US government."I did not realise it had as many victims as [Google] made it sound on their post."Parkour said she works "in general IT …My day job is not associated with malware. Contagio is a personal interest blog and I post items I find interesting or those that may help prevent future victims."She received information on the attacks from a source, whom she has not named, on 16 or 17 February."I was not the one who discovered the attack in question, I just shared my analysis, hoping it might help others."Parkour, who is based in Washington, set up Contagio in May 2009. The 17 February post is headlined: "Targeted attacks against personal accounts of military, government employees and associates."Parkour wrote that the method used – called spear phishing – was "far from being new or sophisticated" but described it as "particularly invasive". Her description of how the attack works matches accounts given by Google."Victims get a message from an address of a close associate or a collaborating organisation/agency, which is spoofed," she wrote."The message is crafted to appear like it has an attachment with links like View Download and a name of the supposed attachment. The link leads to a fake Gmail login page for harvesting credentials."Parkour included screenshots of phishing emails – some of whichwere dated February 2011– and includeda "spot the difference" comparisonbetween the fake Gmail login page that the scam directed users to and the authentic Gmail page.Parkour said once the hackers had victims' password they may "create rules to forward all incoming mail to another account. The third party account ID is made to closely resemble the victim's ID."On its blogpost Google itself described the threat in similar terms: "The goal of this effort seems to have been to monitor the contents of these users' emails, with the perpetrators apparently using stolen passwords to change people's forwarding and delegation settings."Asked about the length of time Google took before announcing the attack, Parkour said: "I think it is great they took time to unravel and find more victims and try to trace it."It has been three months and considering that hundreds of victims are involved, it is not too long."
My friend Robert Leggat, who has died aged 70, created one of the internet's earliest photographic history resources, a history of&nbsp;photography from its beginnings until the 1920s,www.rleggat.com/photohistory. Since its launch in&nbsp;1996, the site has had nearly 10&nbsp;million visitors. Robert researched and programmed the site, but also realised that there were people with greater expertise than he, and he was quick to revise pages on their advice.He was born in Argentina, the son of missionaries, and was educated in Buenos Aires at the St Andrew's Scots school and St Alban's college. He moved to Britain in the 1950s and attended Wanstead county high school. He vividly recalled his excitement as an eight-year-old, seeing his first pictures emerging in&nbsp;the darkroom developing dish.He trained as a teacher at Westminster College, Oxford, and taught at Battersea College, then at Bedford College of Education (now part of&nbsp;De Montfort University), where in 1976 he was appointed head of&nbsp;educational technology.His book Photography in School: A&nbsp;Guide for Teachers was published in 1975. He was an examiner for O and A-level photography for a&nbsp;number of&nbsp;years, and was intimately involved in setting up the City and Guilds 9231 photography scheme. He authored several books which reflected his own interests in&nbsp;education, including Showing Off, Or Display Techniques for the Teacher (1970) and Lights Please! Using Projectors in the Classroom (1972).In 1992 he became an internet consultant, developing websites, producing CD-Roms for education and teaching people how to use the&nbsp;internet.Robert had a strong interest in&nbsp;music and was an accomplished singer. He was also a committed Christian. He is survived by his wife, Jill, their daughters, Pauline and Philippa, and two grandchildren.
The attacks on the US government officials by China-based hackerstargeted personal accounts, rather than trying to break into better-secured federal systems. Not only Google's Gmail was targeted; Yahoo accounts are also known to have been among those hit. It is not known whether any accounts on Microsoft's Hotmail system were hit.It would be illegal for US government staff to use a personal email account for government work, partly because it would not fall under the Freedom of Information Act, which is meant to apply to all intra-government communication.However, as Mila Parkour, the Washington-based IT specialist at the security specialists Contagio Malware Dump who first spotted this points out, the emails would have looked as though they were being forwarded, which would often mean being read "at home in a relaxed atmosphere, which helps to catch the victim off guard, especially if it appears to arrive from a frequent contact." She adds that "some people have a habit of forwarding messages from enterprise accounts to their personal mail for saving or easy reading at home, which may potentially offer some sensitive information."The fact that the hackers knew the personal email accounts of the people they were targeting points to very extensive inside information that would take a remarkable amount of intelligence-gathering and research – and highlights questions over the motives of the hackers.Gmail, despite only being seven years old – compared to the venerable Microsoft Hotmail, created in 1996, and Yahoo Mail, from the same year – is popular with younger users because of the branding power of the search engine, and the fact that it offered far more storage than other services, meaning people didn't have to delete emails. It also offered much more flexibility – checking emails from other addresses and offering forwarding – for no extra charge.Worldwide, Gmail has about 200m users, compared to 250m for Hotmail and Yahoo Mail; in the US, it ties with Hotmail at around 50m, while Yahoo has about 100m.But the dangers exposed by the attacks here could reach wider. Google's email, calendaring and document sharing system, generically called "Google Apps for Your Domain", is gradually making incursions into the US government as part of a concerted effort by the search engine company to displace Microsoft's dominance there.In August 2010, Google claimed that it had been awarded FISMA – Federal Information Security Management Act – certification, which would demonstrate that its systems had solid security for use throughout government. Microsoft's own cloud computing suite did not, giving Google a valuable edge as the US government tries to cut costs by moving to online services. Subsequently – and showing how valuable the business is – Microsoft accused Google of misleading customers; only one particular flavour of Google Apps had passed FISMA, not the version being offered to government. The US General Services Administration, however, backed Google.However, the systems used inside the US government are more secure than those for the average user. "Two-step" authentication, in which mobile phones have to be used to confirm changes to the account and logins from unfamiliar locations.But the risks from outside hackers remain as strong as ever. Google's malware-scanning services are much the same for those who use its services commercially, and those who use them for free via Gmail.
One of Sony's strengths is that its PlayStation brand has always inspired fierce loyalty – which has been tested to the limit recently by the hacking of the PlayStation Network. But a measure of redemption could be at hand, in the form of the Next Generation Portable (NGP), the successor to its handheld PlayStation Portable console.We were given the chance to get some hands-on time with the NGP, running a selection of Sony's in-house launch titles, and came away more impressed than we expected to be.Known unknownsEven though we've experienced it in the flesh, unfortunately there are a number of key things we still don't know about the NGP: the hands-on session took place in advance of the E3 show, where Sony is clearly aiming to make as big a splash as possible by making a big NGP reveal. That will include the following: it's actual name (NGP is just a place-holder), its price (although we do know it will be more than £200) and when it will hit the shops. But you won't have to wait long to find out.In the fleshThe NGP had previously only been displayed in splendid isolation in the middle of a glass case, but a number of aspects made a big impression when we first got to hold one. First, it's surprisingly big, at least in terms of surface area (it's pretty slim). And the reason for that is pretty hard to miss: a 5in OLED touchscreen which, even by the high standards of previous variants of the PSP, is something to behold.This is flanked, for the first time on a handheld console, by two analogue joysticks (usually, you would just find one on the left). In terms of its general look and feel, there's a PSP family resemblance, although it's more ovoid than its predecessors. It is also strikingly light, although we were only given access to pre-release development stations drawing their power from the mains rather than batteries. But Shuhei Yoshida, head of Sony's Worldwide Studios, confirmed: "Even with the battery in, it feels lighter than the PSP 3000."Like Nintendo's 3DS, the NGP is rammed with features designed to let developers think outside of the box as far as control systems for games are concerned. It has a six-axis-style tilt sensor and a gyroscopic sensor, which responds to movement around a vertical axis. And much of the back of the unit is taken up by a touch-sensitive plastic pad – again, a first for a handheld console. Plus, it has two cameras, one on the front and one on the back.NGP launch gamesThe games on show were all from Sony's in-house studios, so it remains too early to say how extensive third-party support will be for the NGP (although, given its attributes, and its processing and graphics grunt, we would be surprised if it's anything but extensive). But between them, the games on show managed to highlight its myriad capabilities.By far the most exciting was Uncharted: Golden Abyss (above), a new episode in the Uncharted franchise, which takes place chronologically before Drake's Fortune (although Sony emphasised it isn't a prequel). Graphically, it lost little in comparison with the familiar PS3 Uncharted games, employing the same third-person viewpoint and richly detailed environments, as well as some great lighting effects.One innovation for the NGP was use of the touchscreen – it lets you swipe across a path of hand-holds, for example, which Nathan Drake will then traverse, and when you walk over a weapon dropped by an enemy, you can get Nathan to pick it up by touching it. You can also use the tilt sensor to tell Nathan which direction to jump – or you can use the joysticks if you prefer.WipEout 2048 looked similarly impressive: the huge screen's sheer number of pixels and sharp contrasts create the illusion of greater crispness than you would get from a TV. WipEout 2048 felt a bit more forgiving than its famously tough predecessors, and let you choose between three control systems, one of which used the tilt sensor for turning (the sensitivity of which was spot-on) and the rear touch pad to accelerate.Little Deviants is a collection of 30-plus mini-games clearly designed to give each one of the NGP's features a thorough work-out. It included a variation on Whack-A-Mole in which you had to touch the front or back of the unit according to which direction Deviants revealed behind doors were facing, and a robot-shooting game which used the gyro-sensor for aiming, much like the 3DS's Face Raiders. Another mini-game used the rear touch pad to push up the terrain, allowing you to manipulate a ball-like Deviant around levels, avoiding enemies.Sound Shapes is an intriguing 2D platformer which has music built into its gameplay: as you traverse levels, you collect objects that build up a soundtrack with, for example, pulsing lasers providing the beat. It also incorporates a LittleBigPlanet-style level editor which should prove popular. Reality Fighters, meanwhile, is an augmented reality beat-'em-up game, which lets you scan your face onto a fighter, then use your surroundings as a fight arena. Sony's in-house launch lineup is completed by a clutch of games familiar from the PlayStation Network, including Super Stardust Delta, Everybody's Golf and Hustle Kings.Our verdictWe approached the NGP with scepticism – the once-exciting PSP seemed to become increasingly irrelevant with each iteration, culminating in the unmitigated disaster that was the PSPgo. But this new model restored our faith in Sony's ability to make handheld consoles.It is sensibly designed – Yoshida admitted that with the PSPgo: "We made it our highest priority to make the unit small and portable, but that wasn't what people really wanted." And its peripheral bells and whistles – the cameras, motion sensors and touch-sensitive screen and rear pad – give developers just the ammunition they crave in their collective quest to unearth new forms of gaming.Its screen is simply magnificent and for that reason alone, PSP users – with their penchant for watching TV and films on their machines – will be tempted to upgrade. And Sony will let PSP owners re-download games purchased via the PlayStation Network for free on their NGPs, which adds to the attraction of upgrading.As long as its price doesn't creep too far above £200, it deserves to succeed. Yoshida admitted that the PSP suffered when Sony launched the PS3, claiming most of its development resources, but was adamant that: "Going forward, we do not want to make the same mistake". Keep your eye on our E3 coverage to discover what it will be called, when it will launch and how much it will cost.
The arrival of touchscreen technology must be one of the most intuitive computer interface transitions in history. From the Nintendo DS to the iPad, people have just got it. Physically manipulating onscreen items with our fingers is natural. It delivers users from the tyranny of abstract button operations.But it's telling that games developers took a while to adapt to this new era. For 40 years, interactive entertainment was about joysticks; design was governed by switches and buttons. Consequently, when touchscreen smartphones and tablets started to arrive, the initial instinct for many studios was to transplant those legacy systems onto the new devices – hence virtual joypads.Virtual joypads are, to put it bluntly, horrible. Dividing off whole chunks of the screen space to act as thumb pads and "buttons" makes no sense on a small display, and the system lacks any remnants of solid, haptic feedback. Traditional racing and shooting games rely on the player developing a symbiotic relationship with the joypad – you need to know the extremes of the analogue radius, and you need to feel the buttons as they depress. The virtual joypad delivers none of this.Fortunately, however, times have changed and we're entering into a golden era of touch controls.Pinch has been built entirely around a control action we're all used to using to zoom in on Google maps.The most obvious proponents are the physics-based puzzlers that have risen to prominence over the last year. The likes of Angry Birds and Cut The Rope employ almost instinctive control models, based around mere swipes of the screen, but they are married with considerable gameplay depth and variety. "Most developers have learned to cut out the middle-man and allow the accelerometer and touchscreen to interact directly with the game elements that the user sees on-screen," says Tom Beardsmore, co-founder ofCoatsink Software, responsible for the brilliantly tactile puzzler,Pinch. "This has meant that there are as many ways to use this interface as there are types of games. Now we have brand new genres that can only be played on a touchscreen."Kami Retro – beautiful 16bit visuals, lovely control mechanism.According to Beardsmore, embracing touch has been a gradual learning process. "Unlike a mouse or stylus, a user's finger will be covering a significant portion of the display while they interact, and without physical buttons/keys, the user cannot use their sense of touch to find the controls they want. They must rely on being able to see the display that they're obscuring with their own finger. This paradox is at the core of touchscreen interface design. A specialist will help considerably in this area, but if, like us, you can't afford one, there is also plenty of documentation on the subject available online for free. We've learned as we've worked, to be honest!"Antony White, director ofPaw Print Games, concurs with this iterative approach. His studio has just released the beautifulKami Retro, a platform puzzler in which players control multiple characters through swipes and taps. "We invested a lot of time evolving our gesture system," he says. "We performed closed beta tests and worked in an iterative manner until all feedback we received was positive. Controlling multiple characters at once using gestures was never going to be easy. For instance, what happens when you flick to jump a character and there's another one behind it? Do they both jump or should it only be the closest to the gesture that jumps? If you swipe horizontally through a couple of character should the closest turn or both? We asked ourselves many questions like this."For these specific cases, we decided that when flicking to jump, only one character would be affected but when swiping through to turn then all within the gesture would be affected. After evolving the gesture system and adding various context filters we realised we found we had to scale back the character numbers from the original because it simply became too insane. Four Kamis seemed a more manageable number so we settled on that."To-Fu employs a pulling and flinging action that uses the player's finger as an aiming mechanism.The key to success with developing touchscreen titles is learning and experimenting with the variety of interaction possibilities. The recently released physics puzzler,To-Fu: The Trials of Chi, by Surrey-based studioHotGenis specifically based around the concepts of touching and dragging. It features a pliable lead character that can be pulled and flicked across the screen. "We were always drawn to the idea of creating a core mechanic that didn't require any additional buttons, prompts or overlays," says the game's lead designer, Stuart Ryall. "I love the fact that the player stretches To-Fu and then uses their finger as a guide-marker rather than showing a trajectory line or any other form of feedback. We avoided the need for any on-screen prompts or buttons and I think the game is better for that."Developers are also learning how to get the most out of multitouch screens, which can trace more than one user action at any time (a maximum of 10 touches on the iPad, for example, as opposed to five on the iPhone).Mobigame'sCross Fingerswas a leader here, allowing players to complete a series of puzzles by holding and manipulating several blocks at once, but titles like Cut the Rope have explored and developed the possibilities."Multi-touch definitely has its place," says Ryall. "For example, it's already become second nature to manipulate photos and web pages using two fingers to pinch and stretch. It feels completely normal. I think it's important not to overcomplicate your game and recognise where a feature is most useful. RTS (Real Time Strategy) games are a good example of where multi-touch feels like a logical fit: using multiple fingers to control separate units and groups." Indeed, there'sa great videoof Ubisoft showing off the strategy title Ruse running on the Microsoft Surface tabletop touch device.Bumpy Road – designed to resemble running your fingers along a piano keyboard.Magnus "Gordon" Gardebäck, one half of talented games development duo, Simogo, says that both of their recent titles Kosmo Spin and the absolutely sublimeBumpy Road, have had the touch experience written from scratch as the central design component. "The key to implementing intuitive touch controls is to focus on what the user expects," he says. "A good starting point is to play around with the interface of the actual OS." This goes right back to Pinch, which is based entirely around the familiar two-finger zoom interface employed in most smartphone UIs. It's also a familiar, almost innate, grabbing action.One of the most intriguing elements of touchscreen and motion control technologies is the way in which they have allowed developers to make lateral leaps in their approach to game design. In Bumpy Road, for example, players use their fingers to raise sections of a road surface in order to move a car. It's a really simply idea, beautifully executed, and it didn't come about because the developer was trying to create a new type of driving game – the starting point was entirely sensuous."We often think of everyday things and especially motions when we start to brain storm," says Simon Flesser, the other half of Simogo. "For example, for Bumpy Road the original idea was to simulate building waves on the ocean with your finger. Somehow that ocean turned in to a road along the way."We often discuss physical sensations that just feel good, and how we can capture those in a game. Dragging your finger along a piano keyboard is one of those really nice sensations – so basically we merged it with the 'making waves' concept and voilá, Bumpy Road was born."Interestingly, we're now seeing the major console players moving into this space and attempting to subvert it. The Sony NGP features a touch input pad on the underside of the device, meaning that players can interact with it without obscuring the screen. Sony has used a cute action adventure title named Little Deviants to show off the technology – here, the game world forms hills over the places where players put their fingers, almost as though they're pushing the landscape up.As Antony White at Paw Print says, "initially I can see some obvious ideas for being able to alter the world under the player by manipulating the touchpad on the base, or by allowing the player to bounce game elements up in the air (on screen) by tapping the base. One aspect of the device that is exciting is there is scope to have hybrid controls, allowing the creative developers to use the most appropriate control system for the task in hand. Finally: no need to persevere with those onscreen controllers!"Touchscreen controls are also moving out of the handheld space, and their role is evolving. Tablet PCs are fast becoming a mainstream technology, with the likes of the Motorola Xoom, Blackberry PlayBook and iPad already being joined by cheaper generic models. The future of entertainment could easily be about tablets becoming a living room essential, interacting with the main TV screen.Perhaps we'll use the touchscreen tablet as an intuitive controller for games played on a large screen display; and if someone else comes in wanting to watch a TV programme, the game content could simply be transferred to the tablet screen, because all the content will be cloud-based. This seems to be the concept behind Nintendo's Wii successor, currently codenamed Project Café and set to be revealed at E3 on Tuesday. It's rumoured this new console will come with controllers that feature touchscreen displays as well as standard buttons and d-pads.When I asked developers about the future of touch controls there are some fascinating theories. "A couple of years ago I saw a concept video for aNokia phone that used nanotechnologyto adjust the physical shape of its touch screen, " says Beardsmore. "It literally raised buttons off of the screen so they could be felt. I think this kind of haptic feedback is an important part of touch interfacing that we are lacking in today's technology. Right now we can really only interact with two of the user's senses: sight and sound. It seems only natural that a touch device should be able to send information back to a user via their sense of touch. The closest thing we have to that is a vibration function on some devices, but there's only so much we can communicate with that."Simon Flesser agrees. "Touchscreens or styluses that can simulate resistance and friction are probably future. There are some examples out there already."Johnny Lee, a researcher in human computer interfaces at Microsoft has developed ahaptic penwhich works with touchscreen displays to provide physical feedback. Flesser also points toward the experimental 'tactile memory game'MudPadand the fascinating tactile interface developed by Japanese researcher,Junji Watanabe, which sends pinpoint haptic signals through a device that sits on your finger nail. There's a video of it in actionhere.Haptic interfaces are also reaching the commercial space.Motivis a touchscreen technology developed by Immersion Corporation, the company responsible for a lot of the rumble technology featured in today's joypads. Motiv allows Android phone manufacturers to build haptic feedback features into their handset displays, so onscreen items are accompanied by definable physical sensations. The first apps supporting the technology are coming out now, inlcuding the music gameBeats Advanved Rhythmby Keripo, and the 'attack-based' puzzler,Antigen.Infinity Blade: proof that swipe controls aren't necessarily confined to casual titles.All of this is a million miles away from the clumsy and intrusive virtual joypads of old. With games like Pinch and Bumpy Road, their very names are evocative of physical movements and sensations – they hint at a future in which touchscreen games are entirely liberated from the controls and even the design impetuses of conventional titles. This doesn't necessarily mean a future of "casual" titles like Angry Birds: EA's excellent smartphone conversion of the sci-fi shooter Dead Space makes clever use of a wiping mechanic to disptach enemies, as does Epic's visually impressive (and decidedly hardcore) action RPG,Infinity Blade.Touch is central to the human experience, it's how we discover the world as babies; it is a control system that we don't have to continually re-learn. While motion controllers like Kinect and Wii offer a glimpse at physical interfaces, I think touchscreens hint at a more precise yet malleable future for game interactions. A sensory input that current games only exploit on a very basic level, could well be the guiding force going forward.We've been told that the future of entertainment is motion control, or 3D, or both; but maybe not. The future may well be sensation.
What is phishing, and how to defend against itPhishing is "the act of defrauding an online account holder of information by posing as a legitimate company", according to the dictionary. Most people will already be familiar with it through the stream of spam emails arriving in their inboxes pretending that there has been a "security update" to their bank, credit card, online shop or similar system.The modus operandi is almost always the same: the user is lured by an email to go and view a page. (The excuse may vary: sometimes it's a "security update which means we need your details again", sometimes it's "attempts have been made to access your account", and sometimes it's "confirming your order for..." – citing some expensive object you'd never have wanted at an online site.)The page looks credible enough, but is a fake: typically it will simply have copied all the elements of the real page, such as an Amazon, eBay or even bank page, but is hosted on a hacked server or even PC somewhere else in the world.In the Gmail attacks, the fake pages copied a Gmail login page.How to protect yourselfAn early clue to a phishing attempt is poor spelling or grammar: the hackers behind these attacks often don't have English as their first language. Be alert for any tiny clues in the original message.If you do click on it, the giveaway in all phishing attacks is the element that the hackers cannot replicate: the "secure certificate", which is required to make links to the legitimate site secure. Thus if you get an email which says you need to re-enter your login details, a key precaution is to look at the URL in the address bar of your browser. It should start with "https://" (the "s" is for secure).If it doesn't, then try adding it. You'll find that on sites such as Amazon, eBay, Gmail, Hotmail, Yahoo, Twitter, Facebook, and any of the major banks, the site will quickly reappear, but usually with a padlock in the address bar. That indicates that the site is safe.Hackers can't – at present – get hold of the secure certificates needed to create https: sites, which means that you have a simple way to check whether the site is real.Another way, if that doesn't work, and if you're still suspicious, is to purposely enter the wrong details for your username and password on the site. The fake site won't know that they're wrong – and will accept them. That means protection for you: the phishers now think they've got your details, but haven't. If it's the real site, of course, it will point out your error.One danger of having clicked on a phishing email is that the destination page will often be loaded with malware that can silently infect Windows PCs (and Mac versions may be around the corner). It's best to be wary in the first place.Why is it called 'phishing'?The origins are a combination of "fishing" and "phony"; it first emerged on AOL in 1995 when hackers wanted to get control of legitimate accounts.Specialist forms – security experts now talk about "rock phishing", "whale phishing" and "spear phishing"Rock phishing:hackers register a large number of domains (in the hundreds or even thousands) and use them to host small programs called "scripts" that connect to their main controlling site. Simply, the combination of the huge number of domains and the scripts meant that gangs could spam millions of emails out for huge numbers of sites such as banks as well as online shopping sites; unwitting victims would click on them and be directed to a dynamically-generated domain that seemed to match the site that wanted their credentials.The people behind rock phishing, which first started appearing in 2004, are extremely talented and coordinated; their motivation is almost entirely financial.Whale phishing (or "whaling"):phishing campaigns that are tightly targeted at individuals of high net worth. In 2008, for example, theInternet Storm Center describedhow a number of chief executives had received what looked like a US federal subpoena ordering them to supply testimony in a case. If they clicked and downloaded it, their machines could be infected – the subpoena was in fact malware.Spear phishing:campaigns that target individuals within a specific organisation, making use of information that might be expected to be specific to their work or field of expertise.The Gmail attacks from Chinafit the "spear phishing" description exactly: they masqueraded as coming from inside a tightly drawn group.
E3, the biggest show on Earth, is kicking off on Tuesday in sunny Los Angeles. At this minute, the world's largest publishers are building their multi-million-dollar stands, plugging in their shiny demo machines and awaiting the onslaught of ravenous games journalists, hungry for triple-A goodies.But beyond the banks of LCD displays blasting out hotly-anticipated titles, what will be the real talking points this year? What do we really need to find out during this cacophonous display of video game hubris? Here are 10 vital questions …Can Sony recover from hack-gate?The temporary closure of the PlayStation Network and the apparent vulnerability of the system's security will no doubt weigh heavily on the minds of Sony execs in the run up to the show. The company has afive-hourpress event scheduled for Monday night, and that's five hours to divert our attention toward the NGP handheld. It's an interesting piece of kit, but we'll need to see some stunning first-party titles, masses of third-party support and a sensible price point. Plus, will there be any PS3 surprises? Playable code of, say, The Last Guardian would be a nice treat. Then again, Sony could throw the ultimate curve ball and officially announce some PlayStation 4 details. That may just silence the PSN boo boys.Can Battlefield 3 beat Modern Warfare 3?Activision has had the hugely profitable military shooter genre to itself over the past five years, and nothing has threatened it. Sure, Medal of Honor was okay, but it singularly failed to dent the Call of Duty armour. The latest shooter from EA Dice, however, looks absolutely amazing, with reportage-style depictions of tense battles in bomb-blasted Middle Eastern streets. This is like PES vs Fifa all over again. But with frag grenades. Elsewhere, a left-field attempt to grab the FPS limelight could come from Gearbox with itsAliens: Colonial Marinestitle – can the creator of Borderlands unexpectedly nuke the competition from orbit?What the heck is Project Cafe?So we pretty much know that Nintendo's successor to Wii is about as powerful as an Xbox 360, boasts HD visuals and comes equipped with controllers that have built-in touchscreen displays and front-facing cameras. But what does that actually mean in gameplay terms? Will the handheld screens simply provide map data and HUD read-outs like the bottom display in many DS games? Will it have motion controls to go with that camera so it becomes a sort of augmented reality interface? And will games publishers know what the heck to do with it? With Wii sales and support falling, it needs to be something a little bit amazing.And is 3DS dead already?It's suffering,even Nintendo admits that. But is it something fundamental about the technology or just a lack of decent games? E3 should at least be able to remedy the latter with (fingers crossed) Super Mario 3DS, Star Fox, Legend of Zelda and Mario Kart on display. We should also see Metal Gear Solid and Resident Evil: Revelations. But, you know, somethingnewwould be good. Remember how Scribblenauts came out of nowhere a couple of years ago to walk away with dozens of "game of the show" awards? The 3DS really needs something like that. But not actually Scribblenauts. Though come to think of it, that would be trippy in 3D.What is Microsoft up to, exactly?The corporation has been as quiet as a mouse over the last few weeks, leading some to speculate that we might get a left-field hardware announcement. But as the usually leaky development community has remained watertight, this is unlikely. Instead, we'll get big hitters Gears of War 3, Forza 4, perhaps the new Halo title from 343 Industries. Kinect is likely to get a big push, with the Star Wars title receiving a proper airing after last year's teaser. Hopefully no Cirque De Soleil mega-show this time. Certainly, if anyone comes near me with a self-illuminating poncho, I'm going to beat them to the ground with it and then make my escape.Is there any room for original games?Not much, we reckon (and we're hardly sticking our necks out there), but a little bit. Expect to see Codename: Kingdoms, the Kinect-enhanced gladiatorial hack-'em-up from Crytek. The there's the open world zombie adventure Dead Island, id's new shooter/racer Rage, Atlus'sinteresting RPG Catherine, Sega'ssquad-based shooter Binary Domain(from Yakua-creator Toshihiro Nagoshi) andFrom Dust, the intriguing Ubisoft-published god sim from Eric Chahi, who wrote Amiga classic, Another World. And did we mention The Last Guardian yet?What about 'casual' titles?And under the title "casual" we're lumping in everything from smartphone titles to FaceBook games and cloud-based services. Certainly, key mobile developers will be at the show, including Gameloft and EA Mobile. Microsoft is set to unleash some new Windows Phone 7 titles too, while OnLive will be present with some new announcements. But the likes of Zynga and Rovio won't be around. As far as E3 is concerned, it could be that social gaming is just something that happens tootherpeople…Will there be another Limbo?… And by that we mean an unheralded indie gem that suddenly garners a mass of press interest because, halfway through day two, everyone is suddenly sick of first-person shooters and cyberpunk action adventures. The enigmatic Journey from ThatGameCompany (Flow, Flower) will surely be present, and I like the look of Awesomenauts, the new multiplayer hack-n'-slasher from Dutch team, Ronimo. Plus, IndieCade has a packed line-up of offbeat treats including the astonishing and unsettlingDeep Seaand the lovelyHohokumby London-based studio,HoneySlug. Indie brilliance is thereif you look for it.Will Rockstar be there?The creators of Red Dead and LA Noire don't tend to mix with the hoi polloi on the E3 show floor, and have apparently "confirmed" their absence again this year. But you never know – this is Rockstar after all, and parent company Take Two is definitely going to be around. We're due a GTA V announcement, so why not gatecrash the industry's little soiree at the last minute and turn it on its head?Will Apple steal the show?Yes, the creator of that iPhone thing has itsWorldwide Developer Conferencefrom June 6-10, overlapping dangerously with E3. We know Mr Jobs will be showing off iOS 5 and OSX Lion (yawn), but is there a chance, achance, that Apple might cement its position in the games universe with an upgraded Apple TV service, complete with gaming app store accessible via your telly? In a stroke, consoles would be cut completely out of the living room picture, rendering the entire E3 bandwagon obsolete. Heh, no, that won't happen. Will it?
Depending on your perspective, Lanxiang vocational school is either theheart of a secretive global hacking conspiracyor a second-rate educational factory that is best known for churning out hairdressers and cooks.Founded in 1984, the school takes in 20,000 students a year and has a domestic reputation for its kitchen and boutique training.But it also has a large computer studies class. The school's catalogue boasts 10 huge, high-standard laboratories equipped with 2,000 Founder brand PCs. At one point Lanxiang said it held a Guinness world record for the room with the most computers.The school gained notoriety in 2010 when the New York Timesnamed it as one of two schools suspected of involvement in hacking attackson American companies and human rights activists.The report, which cited anonymous sources close to the investigation, suggested the strikes were linked to a specific class taught at Lanxiang by a Ukrainian professor. It traced the attacks to the IP address of one of the school's computers.The school has repeatedly denied any involvement in computer hacking or a special relationship with the military, but it is back in the spotlight after Google said that a high-level phishing assault against overseas military targets and domestic human rights activists originated in the school's hometown of Jinan, the provincial capital of Shandong.Though the US search engine did not name the school, it has inevitably drawn attention because of last year's New York Times report.The paper described Lanxiang as a huge vocational school established with military support that trains computer scientists for the People's Liberation Army. The report says the school's computer network is operated by a company with close ties to Baidu, the dominant search engine in China and a competitor of Google.China's state media poured scorn on the reports, saying they exaggerate the influence of a technical college for students who cannot make it into university. Xinhua, China's official press agency, noted with unusual irony that the hacking allegations were the best advertisement the second-rate institution had ever had. Claiming to cite several Chinese bloggers, it said: "Many laughed at the suggestion that a simple vocational school, which mainly offers courses like cooking, auto repair, hairdressing and basic computer skills classes, had the capacity to stage the cyber attacks."The English version of the Global Times, a Chinese newspaper known for its nationalist editorial stance, said the school had seen a surge of applicants since the US suspicions were made public.Contacted by the Guardian, the school rejected the latest accusations. "We have nothing to do with this event," said a woman at the school office who declined to give her name. "How can we have such high technology or such elite students? It's impossible."The allegations have raised as many questions as they answer. Without a clear trace back to the People's Liberation Army, analysts have speculated that the school's computers could as easily have been used as camouflage by the authorities as by a third party – either patriotic rogue hackers or even a third country. Unless the school opens up its computers to scrutiny this will be hard to determine. At an earlier stage of the investigation the attacks appeared to have originated in Taiwan, an ally of the US, but that has since been narrowed down. Jinan is likely to remain a focus of investigations into global hacking activity.
What is the best way to back up photos on an ongoing basis? I have several years' worth of digital photos – around 60GB – stored on my PC and laptop. Should I look at an online backup service? Or is copying to an external hard drive or some kind of storage media a better option?RachelIf you want to make absolutely sure that you never lose any of your photographs, then use as many different systems as you can handle. This can include both internal and external hard drives, optical discs (CD-Rom, DVD, Blu-ray), Flash memory sticks or thumbdrives, and online storage. Ideally, at least one of these backups should be stored in a separate location, and online storage does that. Having "off-site storage" protects your photos from fire, flood and theft.Each type of storage has its own advantages, so you will need to work out a strategy that suits the size of your picture library and the rate at which it's growing.To simplify things, you should start by organising your photos into directories, if you have not already done so. I covered this in a recent answer,Sorting out your photo collection. I try not to keep more than 250 photos in a single folder, and I subdivide large sets into separate folders. This makes it easier to back them up to CD-Roms or memory sticks.Optical discs are well established as a back-up medium, because they are cheap and don't take up much room. However, a single CD-Rom will only hold about 700MB of photos, so you'd need 90 or 100 CDs to back up your 60GB collection. Even if you use DVDs, which can hold up to 4.7GB, you'd need 15 or more discs. Optical discs are therefore more suitable for making quick back-ups or for sharing recent photos. Either way, if you use them, burn the whole disc at once. Do not use rewritable (RW) discs, which are not suitable for back-ups, and do not use "packet writing" software that allows you to treat an optical disc like a hard disk. It's too risky.USB memory sticks or thumbdrives are also an option for some people, now that prices have fallen below £1 per gigabyte. The 16GB versions are popular now, but 32GB USB Flash drives are widely available, and several companies have launched 64GB models. Examples include the Kingston 64GB Data Traveler, Super Talent 64GB Express, Transcent 64GB JetFlash 600, MACH Xtreme FX and the very tough LaCie XtremKey, for which there's an amusingpromotional video. I don't think this is your best option, but a 16GB stick would enable temporary backups (instead of using CD-Roms), and you could use it for transferring photos between your laptop and desktop PCs. That's what I do.Today, an external hard drive (EHD) is the quickest and most convenient way to back up your photos, especially if both your PC and EHD have fast USB 3, eSATA or FireWire ports. A small, portable 500GB drive would easily store your 60GB of photos and probably all the files on your hard drive. However, larger sizes are now quite affordable. You can get terabyte (1TB) drives for a little over £40, 2TB drives for £60-£80, and 3TB drives from about £130. You should find a 1TB drive gives your photo collection room to grow, but if you expect to fill it up quickly, go for a 1.5TB or 2TB drive instead.As mentioned in my previous answer, you can set up some synchronisation software so that new photos are automatically copied from your PC to the EHD. Examples include Microsoft's freeSyncToy 2.1, Jumping Bytes'PureSyncand the open sourceFreeFileSync.Online storage is now free or reasonably priced, and it can be convenient as long as you have reasonably fast upload and download speeds. However, online photo storage comes in three different varieties: file backup, photo back up, and photo sharing systems.Online file backup services will store any kind of file, and will usually back up your whole hard drive in the background, but most are not designed for sharing photos online. The leading examples include Mozy, DropBox and Carbonite. TheMozyHomeservice provides 2GB of free storage space, which is enough to try it to see if you like it. If you do, then unlimited storage costs £4.99 per month or £54.89 per year. This is a proper backup service and your data is securely encrypted.An alternative is to upload your photos to a site that enables you to display and share them, though check that you can choose to keep them private. Examples include Yahoo's Flickr, Google's Picasa and Microsoft's Windows Live Photo Gallery. The Microsoft option is the best one, especially if you have Windows 7 or Vista, because the desktop software is good and because you get 25GB of free storage in a SkyDrive.Picasa only offers 1GB of free storage for photos bigger than 800 x 800 pixels. Flickr's free service displays your latest 200 photos, but you can upgrade to a Pro account with unlimited storage for $25 per year. (If any of these companies have UK prices, they are very well hidden.) A Flickr Pro account could therefore be your best bet, as long as you keep an eye on the privacy settings.Some sites are designed to enable people to share photos, and they don't provide a back up. If you upload photos to Facebook, for example, it reduces them to a width of 720 pixels for display purposes, which is OK for viewing on a computer screen. However, the originals, which might have been 4,288 pixels wide, have been dumped. The best you can hope for from Faebook is a version 2048 pixels wide, offered for download.Online storage is attractive because most hard drives will eventually fail, while CDs and DVDs can be scratched through mishandling and ruined if they are not stored correctly in a cool dark place. However, you can also lose access to photos stored online. Online storage companies have been known to lose data, and many will either be taken over or go bust. Thesad story of Streamload/MediaMax/The LinkUpillustrates the dangers.You might think that using a big company would be a safe option, but some customers lost data in Amazon's recentEC2 cloud services crash, and it's easy to get locked out of an online photo service if the associated email account is hacked. People have beenlocked out of Picasa, for example. Earlier this year, a Flickr user calledMirco Wilhelm had his Pro account deleted, apparently by accident, though his 3,400 photos were eventually restored.It's a good idea to have at least three copies of everything, and for one of those copies to be "off site", either online or at a relative's house. You could store your photos on your desktop PC's hard drive and an external hard drive, then use optical discs, thumb drives or online storage to provide a backup of your backup. Having a single copy of each photo on an external hide drive (prone to failure), optical disc (easily scratched), USB stick (easily lost) or online service is not really enough.
Microsoft has showcased a version of its next operating system which highlights touch screen features optimised for tablets and uses "live tiles" in a system that closely resembles its Window Phone 7 smartphone interface.Steve Sinofsky, the head of the Windows and Windows Live division,talked at the AllThingsD conferenceabout the new product – codenamed Windows 8 – which is expected to launch late in 2012. Sinofsky joked that the precise date was "a Defence Department secret".The interface borrows heavily from the Windows Phone 7 smartphone interface and Sinofsky admitted during the discussion at the AllThingsD conference on Wednesday night that "we thought about it in a new way, about how to solve the things that people see, or say they think are solved, in an [Apple] iPad".In aseparate interview, Sinofsky admitted that the iPad had shown Microsoft that there were some elements missing from Windows – particularly, a touch-first interface, an app distribution system like the App Store, and a different business model for developers to reach users.A demonstration of the new interface showed a system where the conventional "Start" screen that has been in place since Windows 95, introduced in 1995, is entirely replaced by a set of tiles with live information. Although users will be able to revert to the familiar Start-based interface, Microsoft is aiming at the new system as its way of combating the threat from tablets made by Apple and other companies incorporating Google's Android system, as well as RIM's PlayBook and HP's forthcoming WebOS tablets.In the demonstration, Julie Larson-Green, who is in charge of features inside Windows, pointed out that it will be possible to write "apps" that consist of HTML5 and Javascript.Sinofsky insisted however that "every program, everything that runs on Windows 7, every device that you can plug into that, will just run [on Windows 8]".It's unclear however whether that will apply though to the version being written for ARM chips; existing code for Intel chips is expected to run without porting but ARM-based chips may need either a recompilation or a dynamic translator likeRosetta, used by Apple to ease the transition from PowerPC-based chips to Intel chips in 2006.The demonstration of Windows 8 included a number of new features not previously seen on tablet-based user interfaces, including one which runs two programs side-by-side."It works touch-first, but then if there's a machine with a mouse and keyboard then it works the same as before with them," said Larson-Green.She called it the biggest change to the Windows interface since Windows 95.Sinofsky insisted that it was Windows 7 that had first introduced touch interfaces. But "the world changed underneath it" when the iPad came along.However Sinofsky also admitted to a couple of failures. "We definitely didn't do the iPhone," he said, and admitted that when it came to top-end smartphones and tablets, "you picked two of the things we didn't do particularly well". But, he added, "we're not out of the game." With phones, he said, "we aren't there yet, But we'll just keep trying."He did say Microsoft is working to integrate Internet telephone service Skype into the new system, following its agreement to purchase the company last month.The demonstration shows Microsoft is making progress toward the new operating system, which it promises will run on a range of hardware devices from traditional PCs to laptops and tablets, using both touchscreen and mouse and keyboard commands.At the Consumer Electronics Show in January, Sinofsky showed off a crude version of the new Windows system working on ARM Holdings chips - which work better on mobile devices due to their low power requirements.Writing on the Microsoft site,Larson-Green saysthat "a Windows 8-based PC is really a new kind of device, one that scales from touch-only small screens through to large screens, with or without a keyboard and mouse."She adds:Although the new user interface is designed and optimized for touch, it works equally well with a mouse and keyboard. Our approach means no compromises — you get to use whatever kind of device you prefer, with peripherals you choose, to run the apps you love. This is sure to inspire a new generation of hardware and software development, improving the experience for PC users around the world.More details will become available at the developer event BUILD in September, she says.Some details of the hardware requirements for Windows 8 have also leaked, showing that tablets and screens will be expected to have a 16:9 ratio (unlike the iPad's 4:3 ratio), with a minimum resolution of 1024x768 to use the touch interface; anything below that will only run in the "classic" desktop mode.Here's the edited video of Sinofsky speaking at the AllThingsD conference:
Sony's PlayStation Store has limped back to life in Europe and the US six weeks after the devastating hacker attack that hit more than 100 million gamers.The Japanese electronics giantconfirmedon Thursday that it has restored access to thePlayStation Storein all markets except Hong Kong, South Korea and Japan.Sony was forced to shut down its PlayStation Network on 20 April after the attack, considered the biggest in internet history. Computer hackers broke into the PlayStation Network and stole personal data – including names, email addresses and some credit card numbers – relating to about 100 million online gamers.The network, which allows gamers to play virtually against each other, wasreopened– albeit in a reduced form – on 16 May.Nick Caplin, head of communications for Sony PlayStation, wroteon the company's official blogon Thursday: "I'm happy to confirm that PlayStation Store is open and you can now download content and redeem voucher codes. We will update you with the full lists of new content available to PlayStation Network members and PlayStation Plus subscribers here on the PlayStation.Blog in the next few hours."The"Welcome Back" giftto PlayStation gamers is in the "final stages of testing" and will be available "very soon", Caplin added.Sony has been roundly criticised for the way it responded to the hacker attack that rocked the electronics giant. The company did not notify customers of the security breach until 26 April – despite beginning an investigation into the attack on 19 April.Sir Howard Stringer, the Sony chief executive, hit back at critics of the company in May. "This was an unprecedented situation," he said. "Most of these breaches go unreported by companies. 43% [of companies] notify victims within a month. We reported in a week. You're telling me my week wasn't fast enough?"Sony estimates recovery from the attack will cost about $173m (£105m), while its share price has plunged almost 10% since the shutdown of the PlayStation Network last month.
A burst of 12 apps for your considerationScott Mills iQuiz LiveDJ Scott Mills has put his name to a new live mobile quiz that describes itself as "the future of game shows". It all kicks off properly on 15 June, with players logging in to the iPhone app at a specific time to answer 20 trivia questions, in an effort to win real prizes. Four episodes will run in the initial season, one a week. An interesting idea, and certainly one of the more high-profile "play for prizes" mobile games to have launched.Icebreaker HockeyUK publisher NaturalMotion Games has followed up its Backbreaker Football franchise with a similar game for ice hockey. Icebreaker involves skating towards a goal, avoiding opponents then slapping the puck past a goaltender. As with the other games, the hardcore physics look to be complemented by easy-to-pick-up gameplay.Battlefield: Bad Company 2 for iPadEA has released a tablet version of its popular first-person shooter, complete with an online multiplayer mode over Wi-Fi and 3G, and push notifications to suck friends into battles.London: FHM's Rough GuideMen's mag FHM has launched a new branded app, in partnership with Rough Guides. On offer is information about clubs, pubs, bars and live music in the UK capital, with mapping built in to find everything.Photo RageWan to tear your ex out of group photos after a bad breakup? There's an app for that. No, really, there is. Photo Rage handles the photographic revenge process digitally: "Cut to your heart's content, release your emotions and shred those photographs. Cut out the disturbing factors and experience the sound of paper tearing." A niche, but a fun idea.Feed Me OilFeed Me Oil is the latest casual iOS game from Chillingo, following in the footsteps of Cut The Rope and many others. Here, the idea is to transfer oil from a broken pipe to the mouths of various strange animated creatures, via fans, magnets, wind and other aids.QuipsterA location-based app that lets people check in to places and share their opinions? Why hasn't anyone thought of this before? Oh... Yes, Quipster is the latest entrant to the social location wars, tying in to Twitter, Facebook and Foursquare to help people share their "quips" about the places they visit.iSwifteriPad gaming app iSwifter faced something of a convoluted approval process with Apple, but it's finally live on the App Store. Its pitch: the app lets you play Flash games on Apple's famously non-Flash-supporting tablet, logging into Facebook to play some of the most popular social games.FanhattanFanhattan is US-only for now, since it ties strongly into services such as Netflix and Hulu Plus that are also only available in North America. It's described as "your starting point for entertainment discovery on the iPad", which aims to suggest films and TV shows, then point directly to them on those services, as well as iTunes.MixcloudWe wrote in more detail about Mixcloud on the blog on Wednesday – it's an on-demand radio app offering a mixture of DJ mixes, radio shows and podcasts. It's currently free, although charges may be introduced at a later date.Miró: The Ladder of EscapeThe Tate Modern's latest app focuses on the life and work of Joan Miró. That means information on more than 20 artworks, with a mixture of images, audio and video. It's based on a 2011 retrospective exhibition at the museum.Song for Miles iPadSong for Miles is a tablet book-app aimed at children, and focuses on the lyrics of soul songs by the likes of Stevie Wonder and Marvin Gaye, tying in with school curriculum content.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Nokia has described rumours that Microsoft is in talks to buy it as "completely baseless", with chief executive Stephen Elop telling an audience in the US that there are no talks on the matter between the two companies."There's absolutely no discussion. The rumours are baseless. It is as clear as that," Elop said at the D9 conference near Los Angeles.Rumours of an impending takeover fuelled a brief recovery in the stock on Wednesday after it had fallen substantially on aprofits warning on Tuesdayin which Nokia said that its mobile division might not make a profit this quarter for the first time in more than a decade.But selling standard feature phones, which is roughly half of Nokia's mobile business, "does not align with Microsoft's business," Elop said.Nokia and Microsoft signed a strategic alliance in Februaryin which the US software company will pay billions of dollars to the Finnish phone maker to use the Windows Phone software in its top-end smartphones from later on this year.Elop said there had been no takeover discussion and that he understood investors were waiting for the next generation of phones, which will replace the ageing Symbian operating system."My principal focus and the focus of the team is to take care of the short term but make sure that the execution is flawless", Mr Elop said at the conference.He also denied suggestions that he had been planted at Nokia by Microsoft last September as a "Trojan horse" to prepare the company for a takeover. "The Trojan horse theory has been well overplayed," he said. "I refer you to the grassy knoll [the mythical source of a second killer of John F Kennedy in Dallas] for that one."Elop agreed that this had not been a good news week, but said it "underscores the need for a new strategy" although the transition "certainly feels painful right now".He reiterated that the reason for dumping Symbian in favour of Windows Phone was competitiveness: "Symbian was at a deficit in some markets [compared to the iPhone and Android]. Our assessment of the speed with which we could catch up [was that it] would not be enough." Symbian would take too long, he said, and was a bit "crufty" – a programmer's term for code that has outdated elements which interfere with its operation and maintenance.The iPhone's introduction meant that the "pendulum of innovation" swung over to North America with Apple and Canada's RIM, maker of the BlackBerry.Elop explained that as part of the deal, some of Nokia's technology from its Navteq mapping subsidiary will be included in Windows Phone and made available to rival handset manufacturers also licensing Windows Phone in order that they can make the ecosystem for developers and users thrive.A number of bloggers speculated that a deal with Microsoft had either already been done – with some quoting a figure of $19bn (£11.6bn) – or that it was being prepared for some time in the next month or so.Nokia's market value has dropped precipitously in the past three years as its lead in the handset market has been eroded by Apple's iPhone – which is now the biggest mobile company by revenue – and phones using Google's Android OS. Elop considered using Android rather than Windows Phone but eventually turned it down on the basis that there would be no sustainable way to differentiate Nokia products in the long term.Elop said that the deal with Microsoft was good for both sides: each needed a deal.
Tensions between the US, UK and China over the issue of cyber-attacks were set to escalate after it emerged that Chinese hackers have stolen the login details of hundreds of senior US and South Korean government officials as well as Chinese political activists.Google said it had discovered and alerted hundreds of people who had been taken in by a carefully targeted "phishing" scam originating from Jinan, the capital of Shandong province. Hackers aimed to get complete control of users' email accounts on the Gmail system.While there is no direct evidence that the hackers were in the pay of the Chinese government, the sophistication of the attacks and their highly targeted nature eliminates direct financial gain as a motive. Google did not rule out the possibility of the attack being state-sponsored.The action could seriously heighten tensions over the issue of cyberwar. The US government moved this week to classify cyber-attacks as "acts of war", while the defence minister Nick Harvey said on Monday that "action in cyberspace will form part of the future battlefield".At an international cybersecurity conference being held in London this week, delegates warned that new cyber-attacks were being developed so quickly that there should be a nonproliferation treaty over their creation and use.Michael Rake of BT Group warned world powers were being drawn into a hi-tech arms race, with many already able to fight a war without firing a single shot."I don't think personally it's an exaggeration to say you can bring a state to its knees without any military action whatsoever," Rake said. He said it was "critical to try to move toward some sort of cyber technology non-proliferation treaty."The Chinese government has repeatedly denied any involvement in hacking of foreign countries' systems.The latest series of attacks appears to have been going on since February, according to areportreferenced by Google. It said people using Google and Yahoo accounts were being targeted in a "spear phishing" campaign, in which emails crafted to be relevant only to the recipients are sent out with malware or fake links.If the person opens the email or follows the links, they will be led to sites which will steal their email login details or silently redirect all their email to another address.One example "spear phishing" email had the title "Fw: Draft US-China Joint Statement" and contained the text: "This is the latest version of State's joint statement. My understanding is that State put in placeholder econ language and am happy to have us fill in but in their rush to get a cleared version from the WH, they sent the attached to Mike.""Google detected and has disrupted this campaign to take users' passwords and monitor their emails," a spokesman said. "We have notified victims and secured their accounts. In addition, we have notified relevant government authorities. We believe that this campaign to steal users' passwords originated from Jinan, China. We can't say for sure who is responsible."Google said its own systems were not affected – a contrast with the situation at the end of 2009 when government-sanctioned Chinese hackers broke into the Google systems and are thought to have gained access to highly sensitive codes.At the same time, Chinese hackers attempted, sometimes successfully, to break into US companies, including Morgan Stanley, and global oil companies.China is believed to have gained a hugely valuable set of data about US military systems from a US Aries II signals intelligence aircraft that was forced to land on Hainan Island in April 2001 following a midair collision with a Chinese fighter jet.The White House said it was investigating the claims made by Google."We're looking into these reports and are seeking to gather the facts," said spokesman Tommy Vietor. "We have no reason to believe that any US government email accounts were accessed."FBI spokeswoman Jenny Shearer said: "We are aware of Google's announcement regarding attempts to obtain passwords and gain access to these accounts. We are working with Google to review this matter."
Photobucket seemed to be following the same road to oblivion as MySpace, but that could be about to change. Twitter's own new photo-sharing service, it hasjust announced, will be powered by Photobucket, with a label on shared photos to that effect.Photo bydariuszman86onFlickr.Some rights reserved.It's a great coup for Photobucket, particularly because Twitter had been expected to use twimg.com, the photo sharing tool it acquired last year, or at least partner with one of the established Twitter photo names like Twitpic or YFrog. Instead, according to the release, it was Photobucket's scale that got the deal - 100 million users and 8bn uploads. Given the hysterical reaction when Twitter itself falls over, it's quite understandable that Twitter has chosen a robust, large scale partner over a smaller firm.There's a sting in the tail of this deal for News Corporation too, which bought Photobucket in 2007 for $300m but sold it last year. After the MySpace debacle, News Corp might have been glad of the association with what is arguably one of the world's top two social networks. That's a close to Twitter as Rupert Murdoch's ever going to get.Chalk this one up to new(ish) chief executive Dick Costolo, who has his eyes firmly on the dollar signs. E-Marketer put Twitter's revenues at somewhere in the region of $45m for ad revenue in 2010 and $150m for this year.
How bad are Nokia's problems really?Nokiawarned on Tuesday: very bad. So bad that it might not make any money from selling mobile phones. That means that its 6%-9% margins may have been wiped out in the current quarter. It also warned that its guidance given at the end of the first quarter, or mobile revenues of between €6.1bn and €6.3bn, might be optimistic.Well, here at Guardian Towers we have the Nokia results since mid-2006 plugged into the system. First of all, that €6.1bn figure would have been the lowest since the first quarter of 2009 (and third quarter of 2007).We've also got the smartphone and feature phone handset average selling prices (ASP) since 2009 Q2.For smartphones, these have beenfalling- fromaround €180-190 in 2009to€147 in 2011 Q1. Featurephone (or "dumbphone") ASPs have been more steady at around €40 or slightly above. And Nokia has been selling about 20-24m smartphones, and 75-85m dumbphones, per quarter for quite a while. (Nokia gets about half its mobile revenue from smartphones - in fact the ratio has been edging higher over the past two years, from 46% to 50% now.)But the numbers suggest that it's not going to hit those sales figures this quarter.Here's why. The company said that its margins are being squeezed, all the way down to breakeven (ie zero).So let's assume that the selling prices of its smartphones and dumbphones are being reduced by 10% to persuade the carriers to take them on, but it's still selling the same number.That gives 24m smartphones selling at €132, and 86m dumbphones selling at €37. Do the calculation, and that gives mobile phone division revenues of €6.4bn. But Nokia has said that it's not going to hit that (upper-end) target.OK - so the margins are being squeezedandthe number of handsets is down. Let's recast to see if we can get the revenue below €6.1bn, while keeping the rough proportion of smartphones to dumbphones about the same. (This might not be the case, but it's a good enough guess.)Playing around with the numbers, a possible scenario emerges:Smartphones sold: 21m(Q1: 24m)@ €132 each(Q1: €147)Dumbphones sold: 84m(Q1: 84.3m)@ €37 each(Q1: €42).That givesrevenues of around €5.88bn- which would merit Nokia's scared profit warning. It would mean dumbphone ASP was down to a level not seen since, hmm, a year ago, but that overall phone ASPs would be around half what they were as recently as this time in 2006.Nokia quarterly mobile revenues (blue) and profits (red) since 2002 Q1. Final point is Guardian estimate. Other data: Nokia.Now, what does this mean for Nokia? Its troubles may get worse before things get better. The third quarter could see just the same pressure on sales, which will intensify at the high end (expect a new Apple iPhone and even more zillions of Android handsets), plus the same pressure at the low end from high-volume Chinese manufacturers able to make dumbphones. Nokia's lack of a niche is a weakness now: it used to be the behemoth of mobile phones, selling everywhere. There's quite a possibility that it will make a loss in the third quarter. And the 150m high-end Symbian phones that Stephen Elop, Nokia's chief executive, said it would sell? That's looking harder and harder; hitting that target with falling quarterly sales begins to look likeZeno's Paradox.The reason Nokia is in such trouble now is that a threshold was crossed in 2006 when for the first time a billion mobile phones were sold. From there, Nokia could only really hope to be a large player in the market, rather than the ultra-dominant one. And it missed out on the smartphone market badly - dismissing Apple's efforts and unable to catch up with Android, which did do an effective multi-touch screen where Symbian couldn't. Yes, in the first quarter it sold more smartphones than any other manufacturer - but if my calculations are anywhere near correct, Apple could pass it for that in this quarter, and Samsung or HTC might not be far behind.So Stephen Elop has jumped off theburning platform- but it seems that the sea is burning too.Now, what does this mean for my forecast of only last week thatWindows Phone will be a success? I think it's still too early to count Nokia out. It is a company that reinvents itself. But it may have to live with being smaller, at least in the mobile space; or possibly having smaller revenues and profits.One thing that you shouldn't expect though is that the first "Nokindows" phones will be iPhone (or even HTC or Samsung) killers. What I'm hearing from informed analysts is that that first phone, to arrive some time after October, won't even be built in Nokia's own factories, but made for it by someone else. "The last thing that they should want is for people to think that that is going to be the best-ever phone, and that it will compete with the iPhone," said Carolina Milanesi of Gartner, a long-time watcher of the mobile market. "It's the device that they've had the least amount of time to work with compared to all the other Windows Phone licencees. It can't really be best in class. They need to start dialling down expectations on that ahead of time."But with all the other bad news to be digested, the market has continued to mark it down. The shares are now trading at €6.72, down 4% on the day and from 8.2 at the end of Friday, a total 18% fall.Nokia market capitalisation since 1 Jan 1999. Source: WolframAlpha.com(You can see theWolframAlpha output on Nokia's market cap; change the date to get different comparisons.)Of course share price doesn't actually matter to a company; it has no effect except if it's trying to raise funds. Nokia has plenty of cash for now and could weather a few quarters of losses. But unless it can get everything in order, there's a risk of being like Sony Ericsson, which was flying high in 2006 and came crashing down into continued losses before reinventing itself (with Android).It's instructive in fact to look at the companies that dominated mobile phones at the end of 2006. Here they are, according toGartner's release from the time:Nokia: 34.8% share (345m phones)Motorola: 21.1% share (209m phones)Samsung: 11.8% share (116m phones)Sony Ericsson: 7.4% share (74m phones)LG: 6.3% share (62m phones)BenQ: 2.4% share (23m phones)Others: 16.2% (161m).So the top four sellers had 75% of the market.Contrast thatwith 2010, with 1.6bn units sold:Nokia: 28.9% share (461m phones)Samsung: 17.6% share (281m phones)LG: 7.1% share (114m phones)RIM: 3.0% share (47m phones)Apple: 2.9% share (46m phones)Sony Ericsson: 2.6% share (42m phones)Motorola: 2.4% share (38m phones)"others" made up 30.6% of sales (488m phones)It's an almost complete change, where• Nokia is selling more than twice as many phones, yet is perceived as under pressure• Motorola has faded from the picture• Samsung has thrived• Sony Ericsson has dwindled• LG has hung on• smartphone-only makers have begun to infiltrate the top sellers, though only in small amounts• the market is far less concentrated: the top four sellers only have 56% of the market.Yet there are some who think Nokia is facing a serious - even existential - threat. Some market analysts were marking Nokia's stock down to a floor price of $4; the company's market valuation is its lowest since May 1998. Remember, while the stock price doesn't make any difference to the company's day-to-day workings, it does indicate how much profit the market reckons it will make in its life.And research analysts too aren't optimistic, such as Horace Dediu of Asymco.Writing earlier on Wednesday, he remarked that perhaps the market is right in pricing Nokia's phone business at around $11bn (if you split off its Navteq and Nokia Siemens Network businesses).And, he concludesNobody would argue that Nokia is worth more than Facebook so who's to say that Skype or Twitter aren't more valuable than a device company in crisis?I don't try to predict the market's behavior, nevertheless, the markets are now very skeptical that there is much in Nokia to salvage. It's perhaps unfair and illogical but this is the end game of disruption. It ends much more suddenly than it begins. It's the consequence of nobody noticing the beginning that makes the end so shocking.And Dediu knows about Nokia not noticing. He was working there when the iPhone came out and disrupted the whole smartphone - and, arguably, mobile phone - market. He tried to persuade people to listen, without success. So he left.
Google's executive chairman Eric Schmidt has said that one of his biggest failures when he was chief executive of the search-engine company was underestimating the importance of friends.In a speech in California, Schmidt said he had not addressed the impact of social networking services such as Facebook and that, as a consequence, Google had missed on "the friend thing"."In the online world you need to know who you are dealing with. I clearly knew that I had to do something and I failed to do it," Schmidt said at the Wall Street Journal's D9: All Things Digital conference in Rancho Palos Verdes. Schmidt became executive chairman earlier this year after Google announced co-founder Larry Page would take over the chief executive role.Schmidt said that Google products would increasingly use social media elements. The company announced plans today to add a service that will allow Google users to recommend web pages to friends and contacts. The service, known as "+1", is similar to the "like" function that Facebook users use to recommend items to their network. Facebook users now share more than 30bn pieces of content each month, and companies are increasingly incorporating a Facebook "like" button on their sites.Schmidt said the consumer internet was now dominated by a "gang of four" that want to be platforms for other firms: Google, Facebook, Apple and Amazon. "We have never had four companies growing at the scale that those four are in aggregate," he said.
In many respects, the games industry is like a younger version of the film industry, and one knotty problem they share is what to do when a franchise loses its lustre. Franchises are seen as low-risk by those who make both films and games, as people will commit to new instalments on the back of what went before, but since they're almost by definition made for the wrong reasons, the longer they run, the more disappointing they tend to become. Hence the concept of franchise reboots.Driver is a case in point. The 1999 original, which introduced racer-turned-maverick cop John Tanner, was hugely successful, but by the time the third instalment – 2004's Driv3r – came around, its attempt to emulate Grand Theft Auto by adding third-person shooting merely left it seeming desperate, thanks to irredeemably shoddy execution. 2006's Driver: Parallel Lines, which abandoned Tanner in favour of casting you as a criminal called TK no longer even felt like a Driver game. And surely developing an identity crisis is the franchise equivalent of a suicide note?Apparently, matters weren't quite so desperate after all, as a recent hands-on session with Driver: San Francisco proved gratifyingly enjoyable. Right from the off, you're left in no doubt that this is a franchise-reboot: it virtually hits you over the head with a new game-mechanic.This time around, you can hit a button which zooms you out to a birds-eye view (which itself has two levels of zoom) of the city, and all the cars driving on its streets. You can then, as if made of ectoplasm, jump into any of those cars. Some of which are flagged, as they have accompanying missions.You might think that with such a seemingly supernatural mechanism to the fore, it would be tricky to shoehorn a coherent storyline into Driver: San Francisco, but you would be wrong.The story picks up where Driv3r left off, with arch-criminal Tanner being transferred to court for his trial. Naturally, he pulls off a spectacular escape, to which Tanner and trusty sidekick Tobias Jones respond. They nearly catch him after an alleyway chase in Tanner's yellow Dodge Challenger, but a head-on crash seemingly leaves Tanner on the point of death. Which is where the surreal madness begins.Either Tanner is lying in a coma in a hospital, or he escaped injury – and gained the mysterious ability to inhabit the bodies of any of San Francisco's car-drivers. Initially, he tests this with some simple missions which display a surprising amount of humour: such as driving the ambulance apparently carrying his battered body to hospital within an allotted time (easier said than done, since it handles, realistically, like a barge).Early missions in which he flexes his driver-inhabiting muscles include test-driving a Ford GT in such a way as to scare the bejesus out of a pompous car-salesman; helping a pair of Jackass-style internet TV peddlers out by performing outrageous stunts at two pre-determined points among the San Francisco traffic; and raising a driving instructor's heart-rate to 180bpm with a sustained spell of driving like a hooligan.As proceedings unfold, an underlying structure to Driver: San Francisco emerges. There's an in-game currency – Willpower – which you earn by completing missions, and which can be spent in various ways. There are, for example, garages dotted around the city; you can buy cars from them which will become available to you whenever you visit, or you can buy the garages themselves, which will earn you money in the background.There are different mission types, lending a pleasingly non-linear air to proceedings, which are colour-coded on the birds-eye map of San Francisco. These include Dares, where you're encouraged to perform driving feats, such as negotiating checkpoint races within a certain time. There are City missions, which are less whimsical, and unlock Tanner missions, which advance the storyline.Even in the earliest stages of the game, the cleverness of Driver: San Francisco's seemingly preposterous storyline makes itself apparent. It allows Tanner to pursue Jericho on both sides of the law – by quantum-leaping into the bodies of his associates and essentially going as deep undercover as it is possible to be.In one mission, for example, we took the wheel of a getaway car, which provided a good taste of the cop-evasion engine – which is similar to that of GTA in that you need to escape a circular area on the map in which police will pick you up, but if anything seemed more rigorous, requiring both razor-sharp driving skills and an ever-keen eye for the unlikely short-cut.But there are plenty of proper Tanner missions: we played one which was surprisingly funny, in which he came clean to is partner Jones about his body-jumping, then had to convince him he wasn't lying by predicting then performing examples of bizarre driving by other vehicles.All these shenanigans would have been rendered considerably less enjoyable if Driver: San Francisco had been afflicted by some of the basic problems that crept into its immediate predecessors, like imprecise car handling and dodgy graphics. But in both those respects, it is immaculate.The graphics are super-crisp (with an instantly recognisable version of San Francisco, including pedestrians who convincingly throw themselves out of your way). And the car handling is beautifully judged, tending towards the arcade-style, tail-happy, drift-encouraging model – occasional use of the handbrake is de rigeur – yet still allowing you to pull off precise moves with accuracy. The multiplayer side of the game offers something new, too, as it incorporates the car-jumping mechanic.Driver: San Francisco, then, appears to be an exemplary franchise-reboot, at least as far as we can tell after an hour or so at its controls. Developer Ubisoft Reflections has re-endowed it with the quality whichits first iteration possessed, but which had leaked away subsequently, and it is genuinely unlike anything else out there. Plus, it has benefited from unexpected injections of surrealness and wit.•Driver: San Francisco will be released for PC, PS3, Wii and Xbox 360 on 2 September
When Josh Kaufman's MacBook was stolen from his apartment in Oakland, California, it would have been the end of the story - if Josh hadn't had the foresight and curiosity to installHidden, a Mac app that locates your laptop and sends you surreptitious pictures of the thief.Kaufman said the laptop was stolen on 21 March and though he'd told police the location of his laptop, they said a lack of resources meant they couldn't help. After successfully attracting attention by publishing pictures of a man in possession of the laptop andposting them on Tumblrfor nearly two months, Kaufman was told that police had tracked down and arrested the man."I really don't want to know what this man is doing with my MacBook," blogged Kaufman."An Oakland police officer just called me to let me know that they arrested the guy in my photos!" he wrote last night. "The police used my evidence (email which pointed to a cab service) that he was a driver and tricked him into picking them up."Kaufman's blog showed the man sleeping next to the laptop, using it in bed, driving, deleting Kaufman's account and logging into his email, which turned out to be his final undoing.This is all wonderful publicity for Hidden, of course, which charges $15 per year to track one computer. It does still require the user to have the foresight to protect their devices in advance, which is still the major obstacle of insuring or protecting any device. It's normally only when you've lost something that you think about how you could have protected it, so let this be a warning.Kaufman's story has been widely picked up and fascinates us because we think we are seeing a villain being caught. In reality, this guy might not be the one who actually stole the laptop, and also raises some other uncomfortable questions about privacy; because we believe this man has committed a crime, we feel no compunction about looking at covert images of him at home or following his activity online.More worryingly, it doesn't take a huge leap of imagination to see how this software could be used in a more sinister way with an innocent subject. It may seem like protection, but there's more than an element of voyeurism in here too.
An alleged laptop thief has been arrested after his victim used a secret application on the computer to track its whereabouts and take photographs of the perpetrator.Joshua Kaufman's MacBook was stolen from his apartment in Oakland, California, on 21 March, but when he reported the crime to the police it was deemed a low priority – so he turned to Twitter andTumblrto get it back."I reported the crime to the police and even told them where it was, but they couldn't help me due to lack of resources," Kaufman said.Rather than give up the laptop as lost the designer had a trick up his sleeve. Kaufman had downloaded an application to his computer that tracked the machine's location and took pictures from its inbuilt camera – unbeknown to the thief."I'm using the awesome app, Hidden, to capture these photos of this guy who has my MacBook," Kaufman wrote.He told the New York Daily Newshe had returned to his apartment on a Monday night in March to find the laptop, a Kindle and some jewellery missing.Kaufman called the police, but the case was filed as low priority. However, usingHiddenhe was soon garnering information about the laptop's new owner, including pictures, his Facebook account, his place of work and business email address.Upon returning to the police, Kaufman was told they did not have the manpower to pursue the alleged thief.It was then that he decided to spread news of the theft himself, starting a Tumblr account calledThis Guy Has My MacBook.Kaufman promptly began uploading some of the pictures and other information that Hidden had relayed back.Readers – tens of thousands have shared the blog on Twitter and Facebook – were able to see pictures of the suspectasleep on a setteein front of the computer,lying in bed toplessin front of the computer and, less conventionally,drivingin front of the computer.NY Daily News reported that Oakland police finally decided to investigate when media outlets began contacting officers for comment after the saga had become an internet sensation.A mission to rescue the laptop – and perhaps to save some face – was scrambled on Tuesday night and the man in the photographs was soon detained, much to the computer owner's delight."ARRESTED! An Oakland police officer just called me to let me know that they arrested the guy in my photos! BOOYA!"Kaufman tweeted."The police used my evidence (email which pointed to a cab service) that he was a driver and tricked him into picking them up. Nice work OPD!"he added.Hiddenapp.compledges that the app will "locate your stolen computer anywhere on the planet, collect photos of the thief and screen shots of the computer in use".It is not the first example of similar software being used to track stolen laptops. However, on Wednesday some Twitter users were sceptical as to whether there may be something more to the affair."It seems like a pr-stunt for the app Hidden,"@Chalottn posted, while@Usman C wrote: "What i don't understand is y this thief would sleep and drive w the screen open (pics w cam). Looks like PR-stunt to me."Hidden, which is based in Watford, Hertfordshire, has denied it is a marketing ploy,telling one sceptic: "It's a complete surprise to us too, no dodgy marketing here."Last monthSean Power, an author and consultant based in New York, usedPreysoftware totrack down his MacBook, tracing it to a bar in the city while he was in his native Canada.Power posted maps of the laptop's location andpictures of the rogue userto Twitter, inadvertently scrambling a team of followers to the bar and eventually managing to retrieve the computer.In January Erick Lounsbury usedOrbiculetotrack his laptop to Southern Californiaafter it was stolen from his home in Bremerton, Washington state."People need to know that you've gotta take care of your own stuff, because no one else is going to," Lounsburytold the Kitsap Sunafter being reunited with his machine."You've gotta do your part."
Celebrating with cava in milkbottles at Mixcloud HQEast London'sMixcloudreleased its firstiPhone apptoday, giving its 1 million monthly users more mobile-ready access to its full catalogue of 300,000 music tracks and podcasts.Electronica and DJ-led music has been a strength of Mixcloud from the start, but more recently the service has built up its library of talk podcasts. Typical users are trendsetters and influencers big on music sharing and networking tools, hence the app provides links to content that can easily be shared on Facebook or Twitter.What's the benefit over the ever-present iTunes? No syncing to download tracks - they're built in to the app. Searches and tagging are more granular, so more precise tags can be applied to tracks, and there's social commenting too - something Apple's Ping is very far off mastering.For now, the app is free but Mixcloud will eventually introduce a charge. "There are a number of potential ways we may be able to monetise the  app," said co-founder Matt Clayton. "Rather than second guess which model we'd like to focus on, we  think it makes much more sense to launch it and wait to get a sense of  the actual usage habits and build the revenue model around that."Clearly developing the app didn't create enough work for Mixcloud, who have also set up the newSilicon Roundabout Social Clubfor a little more Old Street networking.
One of the most interesting things about the current apps boom is the way it's throwing different kinds of companies into competition and collaboration – from content owners and brands through to digital agencies, media publishers and games developers of all kinds.Somethin' Elseis a good example. The company started life 20 years ago working on radio – an area it's still heavily involved with as a producer of popular shows for the BBC and commercial broadcasters. Nowadays, however, it describes itself as a "content design and creation company", with 70 staff working across games, radio, websites, branded content and yes, apps."We make content, and solve people's content problems – brands and broadcasters," says managing director Steve Ackerman. "Whether that's an app, a game, a content system or a more traditional piece of online video, to us it's the same thing. You're trying to reach people and engage with them."Its two most prominent app projects have beenPapa Sangre, an iOS game that used audio rather than visuals for its core gameplay, and follow-upThe Nightjar, which applied the same principles to chewing gum brand Wrigley's, working with agency AMV BBDO. The latter – launched in late April – has just passed the 70,000 downloads mark."The challenge with apps is how you make money from it, because loads of people are trying stuff out, but only a very small tier come up with the Angry Birds-sized hits," says Ackerman. "But we're coming from a slightly different place: can we form a partnership with a brand to develop something together, and share in the dividends?"The ability of some developers to create big own-IP hits on the App Store is well known, but it's also true that branded apps have had a prominent role on Apple's platform since the early days. Remember Carling's iPint? That said, something like The Nightjar reflects the way the App Store has moved on from those early days.Ackerman says Papa Sangre was both an attempt by Somethin' Else to create some original IP, and a calling card for what it might do for brands."Like any content company we want to be able to create our own IP and take risks, so with Papa Sangre we had an idea and ran with it. But it definitely became a calling card: the Nightjar wouldn't have happened without Papa Sangre, and it has opened up a number of other doors and opportunities. But it has done well in consumer terms – we've made money out of it."Somethin' Else is nowapplying for government fundingto take Papa Sangre further, via the Shoreditch-focused Tech City Launchpad contest, which is offering matched funding of up to £100,000 for innovative digital projects.The development of Papa Sangre was led by Somethin' Else's director of digital, Paul Bennun, who is bullish about the impact that first game had. "It was technically very far out, but the fundamental creative thinking that underpinned it was very far out too," he says."We're not a generic app shop, and we're not interested in competing with these companies that knock out £15,000 iPhone apps for brands. We can't do them, and we don't want to. We want to do stuff that excites people and really differentiates us."Somethin' Else has been working with the TV industry for years, so the company has strong views on the current buzz in broadcast circles around 'second-screen' projects – the idea of interacting with a TV show on a smartphone, tablet or laptop while watching it on a bigger screen.Bennun says broadcasters are cooling on their previous focus on interactivity on the TV itself, in favour of exploring what can be done with apps and social media. "They see people are using the TV as a touchpoint to feed their life on the second screen," he says."Eurovision plus Twitter is the best piece of television you will ever have: the action is on two screens. Just as radio didn't replace newspapers, and TV didn't replace radio, the internet isn't replacing television. It's this new thing that's there, which changes the way you use the old medium."Both Bennun and Ackerman praise Channel 4, saying the broadcaster is commissioning some hugely innovative projects involving second-screen ideas for the coming months. "ITV are going to shock people too," adds Bennun. "They have a fantastic strategy, with people motivated and with the freedom to make great stuff happen."And the BBC? It's fair to say the Somethin' Else co-founders think the corporation has work to do when it comes to this kind of content."The BBC has a different perspective to the rest of the industry – they see these devices as something you can use to bring radio and TV programmes to people, rather than as the thing that changes the way you do content," says Bennun."ITV and Channel 4 are commissioning content systems that are smart – a TV show plus lots of different interactive media working together with an underlying layer of programmed logic, which makes it all work together and gives you an extraordinary experience. The BBC is commissioning... linear bits of content."Somethin' Else is also working with book publishers on projects that will include apps as one element. Ackerman says some publishers have quickly caught on to the idea of an app as an accompaniment to a book or series of books, rather than as a straight replacement for the print edition."What does a book publisher actually do?" asks Bennun. "They talk to people who write books about ideas, and then make them happen – communicating those ideas to people. The physical printing and publishing bit is much less important. Think of a fiction book that creates an astonishing world through words. Now what if those words were interactive – if the way they were delivered to me changed according to other people?"As in... "A massively multiplayer book," he grins. "We're not working on one, although I'd love to, but it will happen."
Apple has released a security update that will spot the "Mac Defender" scareware that has hit hundreds of Mac users in the past few weeks, and which will automatically update itself as new versions emerge.However the protection is only available for users of Mac OSX 10.6.7, the most recent update of the newest version, 10.6 ("Snow Leopard") of the OS. Users of Mac OSX 10.5 ("Leopard") or 10.4 ("Tiger") are not covered by the update, because it uses a software framework called XProtect that is only implemented in Snow Leopard.The update shows that Apple has been well and truly dragged into the malware arms race: the definition list will be checked for updates every day, and updated with new MD5 hashes of dangerous files.This raises the question of whether Apple is going to carry out the search for malware itself, or whether it will farm it out to an outside company. That in turn depends on how aggressive the malware attacks become: only the gang behind the Mac Defender attack know how well it has worked, but the fact that the malware has mutated at least twice (to a different name, and then to a version which doesn't require a password to be installed) suggests that they have garnered at least a few credit card details from their efforts.Update:Ed Bottreportsthat within hours of Apple releasing the security update, a new variant of Mac Defender is "in the wild", with a date/timestamp of 2124 PDF - eight hours after the Apple release. "As PC virus experts know, this game can go on indefinitely," he writes. "Your move, Apple."It does indeed look as though Apple is going to have to rethink the tight interlinking that allows downloaded files to automatically trigger the installer program, for instance, and Safari's default behaviour of opening so-called "safe" files (which often aren't) after downloads complete.It also suggests that the MacDefender gang are making some good money from their scam, or that they're interested in seeing where Apple's breaking point is; or both.Even so, Google's executive chairman Eric Schmidt suggested at the All Things Digital conference on Tuesday that people should use Google's Chrome browser for security – and that "you could also use a Mac instead of a PC", adding: "The viruses that are present on the PC are not likely to affect you as much on the Mac." (Or not at all; but of course the people behind Mac Defender/Guard are creating their own.)Schmidt's words aside, the usual strictures apply for those who don't want to be victims: don't run in an administrator account, and be suspicious of any and all files you download, and especially of dialog boxes asking you to agree to something where you don't recall starting it all off. (This applies for Windows too.)Security Update 2011-003includes an automated removal tool. Although it is optimised to act on downloads through Apple's Safari browser, it will spot attempts to open any package that fits the file definition for Mac Defender – which has already mutated to "Mac Guard".The update provides an option on the System Preferences to opt out of the updates, though the default once installed is for it to go ahead.Snow Leopard has always included a file with definitions of previously known malware that targeted the Mac; these were principally Trojans which masqueraded as video codecs, for example to change DNS settings so the user would be directed to specific sites while trying to visit others.Apple also put out a support note about "Snow Leopard and malware detection" which explains the process.At ZDNet, Ed Bott, who hasmade much of the runningin pursuing the story of MacDefender's evolution, has posted two videos of the before and after of the security update. We've included them below.Before:After
Subscribers to Activision's Call of Duty Elite service will get exclusive access to a web TV series based around the Call of Duty franchise. Activision Publishing chief executive Eric Hirshberg has told the Guardian: "We have engaged some top Hollywood talent to create linear video content that will be exclusive to Elite members. That content is inspired by Call of Duty."Announcedon Tuesday, Elite is a social networking service designed specifically for players of the Call of Duty titles. It offers community services, stat-tracking and user-generated content sharing, as well as online games competitions. The platform, set to launch in the autumn, will require a monthly subscription, although some elements will be free to all Call of Duty purchasers.Hirshberg believes that the provision of linear content will play a key role in maintaining player interest in the Call of Duty brand throughout the year. "If you're a sports fan, there are lots of ways for you to connect with that hobby, that passion, not just on the day that the games are played, but throughout the week, and we wanted to give [Call of Duty players] real entertainment value."It's not clear whether the content will be animated or live-action, though the mention of Hollywood talent suggests the latter. When questioned on the specifics of the offering, Hirshberg said: "We're not going to give much more detail until we have something to show. That'll be later in the year." It's a natural transition, though, for a series which is largely based around highly cinematic action sequences.This "transmedia" approach to entertainment brands is becoming immensely popular in the games industry. Electronic Arts oversaw a range of comic books and an animated film based around its Dead Space series of sci-fi shooters, while THQ has commissioned a TV movie to accompany its Red Faction titles.Both Ubisoft and Namco Bandai have set up their own TV and movie production companies, the former to produce linear content around its Assassin's Creed and Splinter Cell franchises, the latter to work on anime spin-offs from the likes of hit fighting game series, Tekken.Furthermore, the recent Mortal Kombat title was accompanied by a hugely successful live-action web series,Mortal Kombat Legacy, the first episode of which attracted 5.5m views in its first week.A Call of Duty Elite beta test will begin this summer, although it is unlikely that linear content will be a part of the early tests.
A burst of 14 apps for your considerationMonster Hunter Dynamic HuntingGame franchise Monster Hunter is enormous in Japan, where it's been released in a series of console and handheld titles. Now publisher Capcom has taken it to the App Store – in the west as well as in Japan. The game sees players taking on a succession of monsters, with a Bluetooth co-operative mode and online leaderboards.Fox News for iPadThe latest US TV channel to release an iPad app is Fox News, with an app that lets people watch live coverage and video highlights, browse recent articles from the channel's website, and share stories on Facebook and Twitter.DJSMSDJSMS promises to turn Android phones into "a dynamic playlist DJ". The idea: friends send text messages with song requests, which are then added automatically to a playlist. This app is free, but a paid version is on the way with more features.Shoot MagazineUK football magazine Shoot has launched its official app, initially for iPhone and iPad. Working with Tri Active Media, the app is essentially a digitised version of the print magazine, selling individual issues as in-app purchases.San Francisco Chronicle for iPadThe San Francisco Chronicle is the latest newspaper to make the leap to iPad with its free native app. Well, free to download – it then costs $5.99 a month or $59.99 a year on a subscription basis. The content is a mixture of the print newspaper and updates from its SFGate website, with carousel navigation, 360-degree photo panoramas and weather/traffic updates.Paper Glider Crazy CopterUK studio Neon Play snagged the 10 billionth App Store download, and now it's released the next iteration of its Paper Glider iPhone game. The game is free, but uses in-app payments to upgrade helicopters and skip levels.Centre Pompidou - GuideAntenna Audio has released an audio-guide app for the Centre Pompidou in Paris, with a choice of 30- and 45-minute tours. Content includes interviews with artists and curators, as well as reviews of individual artworks.Blaq for BlackBerry PlayBookKisal Labs has launched a new version of its Blaq Twitter app for RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook, looking to fill the gap left by no official application.Once Upon a Potty: GirlOceanhouse Media's latest iOS app focuses on potty training (a Boy version is also available). It's a digital version of an existing book by author Alona Frankel, which aims to teach its young audience about using potties - complete with a 'jazzy' theme song.WhyKids Poo for iPhoneKTH's educational app has been a chart-topper in its native South Korea, but now it's going global. The subject is, yes, poo – an educational app explaining all things faecal to children. With music. It's based on the WhyKids series of books, which have sold more than 40m copies.Think Blue. World.One of two Volkswagen branded apps released today, this focuses on the company's environmental responsibility campaigns. The App Store listing is big on corporate waffle, but with a 100Mb+ file size, here's hoping the app has some interesting content.Audi UK's Guide to Le Mans 2011Volkswagen Group has published an Audi-branded iPhone and iPad app in time for this month's Le Mans race. That includes an augmented reality feature to race Audi's Le Mans cars on your desk, along with circuit info, live commentary and statistics.Jack Nicklaus' Guide to the 2011 U.S. OpenIt must be the day for sponsored sporting apps. Golfer Jack Nicklaus has partnered with Royal Bank of Scotland for an iOS app that offers a guide to this month's US Open tournament. Expect hole-by-hole video guides narrated by Nicklaus, along with course information, video interviews and Jack's Twitter feed. Yes, inevitably, he's on Twitter.Tokyo Chi SaiTokyo Chi Sai (or 'Tiny Tokyo') is part book-app, part photography gallery, and part augmented reality showcase. A heady brew, and one developed by Whitewall Studios.You can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSchmidt Says Google's Social Networking Problem Is His Fault &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"I clearly knew that I had to do something, and I failed to do it," Eric Schmidt said. "A CEO should take responsibility. I screwed up."So, how dangerous is mobile phone radiation? &gt;&gt; Bob ParkOn the phone-in about mobile phones and cancer: "Bob Park: The frequency of cell phone radiation is about 1 million times too low [to cause DNA damage]."Caller: Wow! When did this news break?""BP: Albert Einstein let it out in 1905."This Guy Has My MacBook &gt;&gt; Tumblr"On March 21, 2011, my MacBook was stolen from my apartment in Oakland, CA. I reported the crime to the police and even told them where it was, but they couldn't help me due to lack of resources. Meanwhile, I'm using the awesome app, Hidden, to capture these photos of this guy who has my MacBook."He doesn't any more, though, because the Oakland Police Department picked him (and the computer) up. Have you got any tracking software installed?Software updates shouldn't need to ask permission &gt;&gt; Slate MagazineThe pain of stuff always wanting an entire separate download needs to end. Like this: "Chrome updates itself automatically, constantly, without asking for permission. Google calls this 'silent updating', because Chrome applies the new code in the background, where you won't notice (unlike the way many programs, including Firefox, ask you to hold on while it refreshes and then demands to be restarted). As a result, every time you start Chrome, you're running the latest 'stable' version available."Fake Firefox warnings lead to scareware &gt;&gt; Naked Security"While most of the talk for the past month has been [scareware scammers'] move to Mac with fake Finder pop-ups that appear to scan your computer, they haven't stopped innovating on Windows either."Their latest scam? They detect your user-agent string from your web browser and display a fake Firefox security alert if you are using the Mozilla Firefox web browser."New algorithm impressively depixelates pixel art &gt;&gt; Geekosystem"In a new research paper, Microsoft's Johannes Kopf and The Hebrew University's Dani Lischinski describe a new algorithmic method for converting pixel art into sweet, smooth vectors."Completely ruins the look of Space Invaders, though. Those things are *meant* to look pixellated - not like some weird crab with attitude problems.Apple launches worldwide MacBook bottom case replacement program &gt;&gt; 9 to 5 Mac"Per Apple's support document, they will now fix the issue with the rubber bottom on the white unibody MacBook coming off due to issues with glue. This applies to any MacBook purchased between October 2009 and April 2011. The program is available free of charge via your local Apple Store or Apple Authorized Service Providers."There's also a self-service option. Not that great if it's been affecting devices through to April.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Wednesday. A great day for endless games chatter!
The British public needs to snap out of its complacency about cybercrime or risk becoming victim to increasingly sophisticated criminal networks that are operating online, the head of the country's e-crime unit has warned.Janet Williams, who takes the lead on cybercrime at the Association of Chief Police Officers, said people seemed to think that being technophobic was quaint and slightly comical.She was drumming into her detectives that this was no longer acceptable and that the public needed to change its way of thinking too, she said."What worries me is that people still think of cybercrime and cyber-attacks as being a little bit like maths. If you go to a dinner party, someone might say that they don't really get maths and everyone laughs and titters. "Not being able to understand it is the equivalent of not being able to read."It is unacceptable now and on that basis I have been saying to detectives that if they don't understand what is happening with cybercrime then they shouldn't be a detective. I really mean that."Williams added: "Most of my working life has been in CID and counter-terrorism. I don't think that in the future detectives will be equipped to be able to deal with these things if they don't understand the nature of cybercrime and I think that multinational organisations, public and private organisations, need to ensure that they understand the threats to their organisation."Asked whether she thought the public also needed to make more effort to understand the dangers, she replied: "Absolutely."Williams, one of the most senior officers at Scotland Yard, said business leaders should be ensuring that their firms were properly protected against the theft of valuable intellectual property. "Chief executive officers need to be personally reassured the controls and protections are in place. Intellectual property rights are very important to the UK."She said she was particularly concerned that industry and universities had not completely understood the new landscape. "[They] need to think it through. I don't think there is sufficient appreciation of the risks," she said.Williams has set up a "cyber flying squad" based at Scotland Yard, and said her team of 35 detectives and specialists were having significant success.But she conceded that she needed the help of some of the biggest multinational corporations. Most had sophisticated cyber defences and the ability to track criminals around the world. In many cases, she said, "their intelligence systems are better than ours".Williams has asked the Home Office to consider pressing for changes to the system of commission rogatoires – the letters of request for legal or judicial assistance sent by one country to another.With online criminals able to move across borders in the blink of an eye, police have found that the traditional ways of seeking assistance from other countries are outdated."We have made recommendations to the Home Office," Williams said. "We have outlined the nature of the problem. But it is up to them to find a solution."During last week's visit by the US president, Barack Obama, the UK ratified the Budapest convention on cybercrime, which should speed up investigations in some European countries and the US.Reliable figures about the scale of crime online are difficult to assess, but GCHQ, the government communications headquarters at Cheltenham, estimates that "a figure well into billions" is credible.One study earlier this year estimated that cybercrime costs the UK more than £27bn a year.Police know of hundreds of hacking forums, on which thousands of stolen UK credit card details are available for sale for as little as £1.50.Whitehall officials said that there was a "noticeable spike" in the use of such forums on Friday and Saturday nights, possibly because people returning home from an evening out might have their guard down and were surfing sites they would otherwise ignore.Internet scams• Nick Webber, 19, was jailed for five years this year for masterminding a multimillion-pound "cyber supermarket" where criminals could order stolen credit card details or learn how to make illegal drugs – and even bombs. Webber, of Hampshire, ran GhostMarket.net, which at its peak had more than 8,000 users. He was caught out by a ''compromised'' credit card.• In 2005, an audacious hi-tech scam to plunder £220m from a London-based Japanese bank was foiled at the 11th hour. The Israeli gang was reported to have hidden spy software on the bank's computers to steal passwords of accounts.• The bank accounts of Steven Spielberg, George Lucas and Oprah Winfrey were targeted by an internet scam artist based in New York in 2002. Abraham Abdallah, a restaurant dishwasher, was caught trying to transfer $10m into his account.Jason Rodrigues
Lodsys, a US company that claims to have patents that are being infringed by Apple app developers, has now filed lawsuits against a number of app developers - despite beingwarned off by Apple itself on 23 May.The company has moved to a more aggressive footing against Apple as well, claiming that the company breached "confidential discussions" in which there was disagreement over the interpretation of the licence terms under which Apple can use the patent.Lodsys first wrote to a number of app developers around 13 Maysuggesting that they owed it payments for using its patent- which covers the in-app purchasing system, a facility offered through Apple's iOS software.The developers turned to Apple, which responded bluntly to Lodsys, saying that it was " "fully prepared to defend Apple's license rights".In aremarkably brief blog post, Lodsys said that it "chose to move its litigation timing to an earlier date than originally planned, in response to Apple's threat, in order to preserve its legal options."The company alsodisputesApple's claim that app developers are "undisputedly licensed" to use its patents, saying that "unfortunately for Developers, Apple's claim of infallibility has no discernable [sic] basis in law or fact."Lodsys has not previously been noted as having any success in suing other companies - and its stance against Apple, which is legally extremely well-resourced, has a make-or-break air.Lodsys said on its blog: "Before, during and after these interactions, Lodsys has carefully considered this issue and consulted several legal experts to consider Apple's claims. We stand firm and restate our previous position that it is the 3rd party Developers that are responsible for the infringement of Lodsys' patents and they are responsible for securing the rights for their applications. Developers relying on Apple's letter do so to their own detriment and are strongly urged to review Apple's own developer agreements to determine the true extent of Apple's responsibilities to them."Apple told developers and Lodsys on 23 May that its ownership of a licence to the Lodsys patent covers developers as well.Lodsys's reply, onanother post on its blog, is thatApple is explicitly never anything more than an "Agent" of the Developer with respect to the distribution of applications and the operation of the App Store. Through that construct, and in several other ways, Apple has specifically absolved itself of any legal responsibility it has with respect to 3rd party patent infringement by Application Developers. It does not just stop there. Every action taken by Apple in the distribution, sale, offer for sale, importing and exporting of applications provided by Application Developers (not to mention the creation of the applications in the first place) is the responsibility of the Application Developers as the Principal in the Principal-Agent relationship between the Developer and Apple.Finally, the company is offering $1,000 to "each entity to whom we have sent an infringement notice for infringement on the iOS platform, or that we send a notice to in the future, if it turns out that the scope of Apple's existing license rights apply to fully license you with respect to our claim relating to your App on Apple iOS."So far that would put Lodsys's downside risk at about $10,000.It is unclear however whether it is making the same promise to Android developers. Last week it emerged that it is suing an Android developer over the use of in-app purchasing. Google has yet to respond.
We've done plenty of double 'Best Ofs' before, but  triple? A Triple?! Yes, tonight sees a first – a full three weeks of Chatterbox action crammed into one post. If you were on holiday, or in a confined cell, between May 3 and May 20, now's your chance to catch up with our games community.And if you're at all interested in gaming disappointments or zombie hiding places, or want to enjoy an idiotic story about 'rage mooning at the Queen', you won't want to miss this bulky tome, which makes the diary of Samuel Pepys look like a couple of quick notes scrawled on a post-it note. And I should know, I had to sub and format the entire opus...Tuesday May 3Tuesday began begrudgingly, as if the long back holiday's excess lingered and hadn't quite been shaken off yet. Except it seems for our primary primate, rage quitter extraordinaire, 'Simian', who appeared to be doing it wrong, in his up and coming expectations upon meeting CunningStunt."This coming weekend, it's the geekend at its finest, should be good (is it wrong to be slightly nervous about meeting Cunning? If he's not as geeky as I imagine I'm going to be disappointed...)"No chance of any disappointment there, I can assure you.With some rich peoples' wedding on terrestrial television, Jenny Bond was left worrying about her job as 'Sorbicol' summed up pretty much the entire chatterbox's feelings towards the recent royal wedding:"If one more woman in this company asks me 'what did you think of the dress?' I'm going to have a small psychotic episode. So far my response of 'I don't know, I was too busy looking at her sister's backside' has generally been met with a frosty silence."Author and Editor in charge of CITV 'Elquesodiablo' expands on his plans for the up and coming children's TV season: "I finally got a hold of the last ten episodes of Degrassi, season ten. A kids show, a female-to-male transsexual falling in love with a girl and then exploiting her alcoholism to get off with her..."Those of you thinking of getting on the wrong side of any Chatterbox regulars, had best think twice as 'Sheep2' illustrated the lengths some of us will go to when riled":"A bit of Fallout NV. About 30 minutes I died though and the last saved game showed zero progress. Turned game off in protest"Well that's showed them, then.Spider blog raised its spindly frame with 'RivaldoRules' showing his more nurturing side:"I've got a spider that I look after on my windowsill. I fed it bacon yesterday. It's getting pretty big."Concerns over spider fears were put to rest with reassuring advice from 'WillumCobblers':"Unusually they tend to work in packs. They can survive underwater and can actually swim quite well. It's probably just the advance party, don't be too surprised if hundreds of the little beggars arrive from round the u-bend. They can overwhelm a deer if they go into a frenzy, so best not to upset them. Probably nothing to be worried about."As the day drew to a close and the blog started to tire of the collective witticisms and deep philosophical musings, we all scuttled off behind the toilet bowl of life, to lurk until a fresh new box graced our web.Wednesday May 4Yes it was unofficial Star Wars day. Yes people made the joke. No I'm not repeating it.There was also talk of recent world events, namely the death of Osama Bin Laden. Along with some uncommonly thoughtful commentary on the events surrounding this, regarding morality and the responsibility of government, it was good to know the blog still had its priorities in order with SandySleaze positing that: "Burying him at sea should hopefully stop him coming back as a zombie". This (inevitably) led to much discussion over who would be the worst celeb zombie (worst as in nastiest, rather than just inept). Maybe the suggestion of Jordan fits the bill on both counts; it's not really for me, or my lawyers, to say.In the absence of PSN, bloggers were turning to other outlets for their gaming. There was a resurgence of Gears of War 2's Horde mode (most likely brought on by the Gears 3 beta chat) and on the topical zombie theme, Left 4 Dead on the PC even made an appearance. Now I don't mean to brag but SerenVikity actually said this: "Onedave was always there protecting me. He's good at L4D." So it must be true, my stats be damned.The recent Champions League games proved fertile ground for football chat to grow throughout the day, from discussions of tactics (Mourinho got them wrong) to who people would want to win the final (some begrudging support for Man Utd) and finally on to whether Messi is the Best Ever Footballer, a discussion that was never going to gain any kind of consensus, but it was a valiant effort.[Garrincha was the best ever footballer. Followed by Colin Bell – ex-football journalist, Keef]Late in the morning, Makar trundled in attempting to change the blog's somewhat negative attitudes: "Most days it's like an episode of 'Grumpy Old Men' on here… Don't get me wrong, it can be very amusing, but it would be good to celebrate the things in life that are great and just work."He then helpfully provided his 'Top 5 list of things that are good':SunshineCatsEngland winning the AshesPizzaHolidaysCue Listblog™, but of positive and good things, something that did actually spread a bit of cheer around the blog for a while. Though Destry's response was a little worrying: "Nice list, although I would substitute Tony Mowbray for Cats."And so, later, Makar returned to look upon all he had created, and in the spirit of the day, made an appropriate Star Wars reference: "Well done everyone. I knew there was some good in you. Just like Luke found in Darth Vader at the end of Return of The Jedi."Elsewhere, Limni also kept wittering on about Tanks, people thought it was Tim's birthday (but it wasn't) and there was a discussion around the best feathers to get in a duvet.All in all, business as usual.Quotes of the day"You can't knock a bit of upbeat jazz when you're being swarmed by weird bent backwards people who can sense your breath and probably speak to you through the milk in your coffee."I really hope Salubriousone was talking about Deadly Premonition."I think a zombie Sandi Toksvig would be pretty scary."SuperSmashin says what we're all thinking.Thursday May 5Referendumnoun ( pl. -dums or -da |-d_|)A general vote by the electorate on a single political question that has been referred to them for a direct decision.• the process of referring a political question to the electorate for this purpose.ORIGIN mid 19th cent.: from Latin, gerund ( 'referring' ), or neuter gerundive ( 'something to be brought back or referred' ) of referre (see refer).BeCool cast his vote early, and voted for a return to the Star Wars thread, but spoiled his ballot by marking Chatterbox as his second choice.Speaking of spoilers, I'm not sure if DrSmurfsGhost has got the hang of things by revealing nothing about the first eight hours of Fallout: New Vegas. Considerate poster, that DrSmurf, deserves a Spoiler Bear.You all know by now that the chatterbox has life of its own, regardless of whether anyone turns up in the morning to turn the lights on, or someone hacks the forum with hexadecimal freakishness, the underbelly of the blog will turn itself skywards, expose its vulnerable side and make a list.It's funny then that MendozaLives started it all off by listing the criteria for involuntary manslaughter.1 The existence of a duty of care2 Breach of that duty3 That the breach causes death4 That there was a risk of death5 That the breach of duty was so bad as to amount to 'gross negligence'.Not my favourite top five list, but it knocks into a cocked hat kitchen-gadget-list, best/worst-tv-list, toothpaste-list, and of course list-list.Law blog got a little out of hand, as is the nature of all living things to, wither, grow old and die, Fegbarr coined the term Chatterbox Cangaroo Court, donned his wig, and sat in judgement over every last action bloggers took. It really showed a number of people up as to how little they understand the law of our land, seemingly believing that internet forum law applied to most cases and that shouting louder, or rage quitting would be the answer.Again it fell to Mendoza to quote at us section 3(3)(b) of the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991, something about grounds for reasonable apprehension, and you know who you are, I've sent the police around to your IP address to take you away for your six month detention at her Majesty's Pleasure.But, you know, he then has to go and spoil it all in the end, todays Mendoza Law blog ends with a bit of study boasting, bigging it up about his upcoming exams, he slips into the open Sarlacc maw of his own pedantry and reveals without spoiler tags that Spider-Man's Uncle Ben is dead. Nice one son.Friday May 6Results are in......the people have spoken, and the nation having been given a chance to change an age old system for something new, something not ideal but at least a chance of something different happening... we went for the old, for what we know and love, we voted for another chatterbox full of nonsensical drivel... future generations will look back on this day and curse us for our failure to reach for the chatosphere.Count has a pile of rocks left with Stockpile Thomas that would dwarf Mont Blanc, nearing his platinum on the devilishly difficult Demon's Souls, Worv's extensive network of spies and informants having cast doubt on his talk of nearing completion were shown to have the intelligence gathering skills of a glow in the dark hippo.Zocktopusses, Zom-Bees, Zonkeys... Zplatypus...can you tell what we're doing yet?Tips were handed out for trips to Berlin and its culinary delights or lack of according to Henry, around lunchtime English and Hum nearly had to get a room, fantasy books were praised and damned.And...Literally nothing else happened of note... no really, more than eight hours of effort from some of the finest... no that's not the word is it... from some of the oddest minds in the country and that's all there is, don't agree? Go back and check... see, told you... you'd almost think we were just waiting for the weekend to start...And representing the often bizarre but very dedicated out of hours AfterBlog it's all yours Destry:"01001100 01100001 01110011 01110100 00111111"Quote of the day"I am obsessed, you're the fattest thing I've seen, and I've been on safari."EnglishRed sweet talking St00 again.Monday May 9The week began with no box, Keef had failed his loyal supporters once again. Was it a dirty protest from the perennial winner of the now defunct Guardian Gamesblog Writer of the Year? Only time would tell.Eventually, when the chatterboxers were just beginning to remember what real work was and what their actual jobs entailed, the box appeared to a collective sigh of relief. The usual recriminations started with Sheep2 suggesting an alternate role for Keef. "Could you fix PSN?It might be a bit late occasionally with you in charge, but it would get there in the end""I don't know what sickens me more, the late box or Keef's apology"Fegbarr summed up everyone's thoughts on the matter.[No comment – Keef]Talk then moved to the triumphant Be4ch on his return from the geekiest of all geekends, taking part in a live Blood Bowl tournament at Warhammer world, Nottingham:"My Orc team performed quite well and finished with a record of 3W-0D-3L putting me 81st out of 192 which, I'll be honest, is much better than I ever imagined"Well done Be4ch is all that can be said to that.Following the revelation that there was a stag do at the aforementioned Warhammer world, many quickly jumped in to say that going anywhere near that place would be enough for them to remove a best man from his position, and Milkncheese was quick to dismiss all stag dos.Canyoning, marathons, football and golf were widely discussed throughout the day, bit of shock the chatterboxers considering this potential level of activity considering this a games blog."This only ends up with Prince William choppering your bodies off the mountain. I hope you know that." Bertjansch wisely predicted how the canyoning would end up.Games:Demon souls, blood bowl, Brink (anticipation), Borderlands  and Gears of war 2TV:Game of thronesLists:Trainers, Hip hop andTanksQuotes of the day"Depends on your handicap and the stroke index of the hole. But assuming that you boys had handicaps over 18 then it would have been at least a net birdie (potentially a net eagle)."Angryman's golfblog gives diceblog a run for its money in the confusion stakes."Mr. Chatterbox is the twentieth book in the Mr. Men series. Mr. Chatterbox will talk on and on about rubbish, such as colanders and dice. His talking causes the mailman to deliver all of his mail to his Polish neighbour, and causes Mr. Arthur, the evil overlord, to come home late to a cold dinner. Mr. Arthur occasionally purges Mr. Chatterbox if Mr. Chatterbox uses quotes too much. Now Mr. Chatterbox quotes less."EnglishRed thinks about a career as a children's author.Tuesday May 10"I've spectated before, your chatterboxes have been the subject of much delight for me."No, it wasn't the Blog's arch nemesis, aka (that's: anagrammatically known as) "Rectal Hurrahs" turning his vengeful eye and head of inexplicably jaunty angle towards the Chatterbox collective in search of a new sacrifice. To the great relief of the awakening bloggers, it was an altogether much more agreeable and friendly de-lurk. And a female one at that!Yes, as Tuesday's Box dawned, the assembled bloggers welcomed a friendly new avatar courtesy of SarahHawke. Initial fears that the Chatterbox's delicate equilibrium of X and Y chromosomes might be upset by the presence of an additional female voice appear to have been unfounded, but rest assured, some of the finest minds in Chat are monitoring the situation and – for now – CunningStunt's patio remains level.Welcome Sarah. (For the record: "a giant mech, Japan's gotta have them buried somewhere right?" was agreed to have been a very sagacious answer to The Question.)The day's learned debate sprinted through a range of topics, each of which was satisfyingly solved with a bit of lively banter and mutual respect. The following lessons were learned, so take heed:i) Don't keep consoles or other electrical equipment on the floor because your washing machine might explode.ii) Making movies of games is generally a bad idea.iii) If the people behind the Millennium Prize (awarded for solving some very tricky maths problems) are ever interested in offering a tidy sum of cash to anyone who can make three-sided dice, the Chatterbox bloggers will have a pretty impressive headstart.After lunch, the conversation – shockingly – turned to games, with blogger favourite Demon's Souls dominating the Chatterbox. Strategies were discussed and dissected for the effective dispatch of the Flamelurker boss (manly hand to hand versus hiding like a coward and shooting him with arrows); the route through the Tower of Latria; how many arrows you should bring with you to kill the Blue Dragon and whether it's shameful, cowardly cheating to roll off the battlements to shortcut to the boss in 4-1 (no) or to shoot the first Maneater through the fog gate (very definitely cheating, and yes you should be ashamed). Oh, and CountGinula got some Pure Bladestone! Well done that man!(If that doesn't make any sense whatsoever to you... you're not taking your hobby seriously enough; you've let yourself down and you've let everyone here down. You define "doing it wrong". Go and buy a copy of Demon's Souls – and a PS3 if necessary – and start sorting your life out. It starts today. Okay?)Quote of the day"I often wish I could get highly specific brain damage so that I could read books or watch films for the first time again so that I could enjoy the twists and whatnot. Who was the science person on here? I know you're supposed to be making me a sabre-tooth tiger and another project that I can't recall at the moment, but can you please work on this specific brain damage thing as well. Ta. Is my tiger ready yet?"CBPodge, not asking much of science.Games:Anticipation for Brink and LA Noire and Skyrim, Demon's Souls (not it's not boring, shut up), Oblivion, Assassins Creed Brotherhood, Fallout: New VegasWednesday May 11If you needed any evidence that playing computer games, alone and in a darkened room, is enough to turn you a little bit peculiar then the chatterbox provided it today as the paranoiacs came out to play, convinced that the Alien, American or Zombie invasion was already underway.Piip was to blame for all of this when she asked: "What are they (the Government) up too, the last two days we've had army helicopters flying over here and a stealth plane". And in doing so, she sparked off a whole debate on the type of plane, its purpose and wild conspiracy theories about who was invading, including from Simian who bemoaned the recent cuts in Military spending, exclaiming melodramatically: "that's it, it's an invasion.... damn them for getting rid of the Harriers, we only have Typhoons and Tornados left now." And may God have mercy on our souls.Things mellowed down in the afternoon when biscuitblog reared its ugly head, RobLindsay freaking everyone out with his ability to drink tea through a Twix. As Easily Lead put it "... but ... a Twix is solid isn't it? this makes no sense", only for St00 to point out that he was, "underestimating Rob's outstanding powers of extreme suction." The less said about that the better to be honest.BloodBowl gained more converts, blog newcomer SarahHawke being the latest initiate and you could sense the resolve of SirGiggeddy wearing down. It really has become more of a cult than a game, and gives more indication that the games taste of the chatterbox really is at odds with the rest of society.And that was another day over at the Chatterbox. Another day of avoiding work and instead chuntering manfully for a good eight hours about nothing in particular. Honestly, we all deserve medals.Quotes of the day"I just can't believe I've actually met, in person, the man who invented the world's first curved nail file."BeardofBees – well we were all thinking it."Bought myself one of them prima strategy guides this week. For UFO: Enemy Unknown, from 1994. Why? I've no idea, but I like tables and charts and things"Bobbobob making a play for Umboros' 'Biggest Geek' crown.Games:Skate 3, Top Spin 4, LA Noire, Blood BowlThursday May 12What type of cheese makes the best dice? Questions like this need to be asked, answers need to be found. If you REALLY want to know you'll have to read back as there was a lot of cheese dice blog, instigated by Milkncheese, "Which cheese would be best used to craft which type of dice? A D20 made from Gouda? Red Leicester for a D6 perhaps? What dairy produce is up to making a D4?"Femme fatale, SerenVikity outlined plans for an up and coming move: 'It all seems rather predatory. I'll give it a go – I could get myself a reputation where I would be admired by the village males and despised by the local ladies. Brilliant plan. Thanks.Pokemon: "I don't think your nights will be that lonely"SerenVikity: "I'll need some tin foil, some sticky-back plastic and an empty fairy liquid bottle."If you thought this was a debauched low for the boxer regulars, EnglishRed threw in his two penneth: "It's made out of a rubber/latex material so my back bedroom smells suspiciously of rubber at the moment."Newcomer and serial bracketer SBY818 – "I use a lot of parentheses" – delurked. To be warmly (perhaps too warmly) greeted by Tjvs: "Is that you in your picture? If so, you sure do got a purdy mouth..."Thank the gods for ironically named WeeCooper for raising the tone: "Two sturdy, brave fellows required. Apply within" Ahh no then, not sure what's in the water today.Moving away from the lewd behaviour of regulars who should know better, it could have been Patrick Bateman speaking rather than Jaykelly, when outlining his plans: "Some comedy deaths and much killing." But it's the gamesblog, Jayk? "Bit of Blops with Sagesmith briefly too." That's alright then."Still a mix of the sublime and the oddly frustrating," explains Onedaveofmany, but it's alright, EnglishRed reminds us that, "This is all hypothetical, I hope you understand". Apprentice blog occurs occasionally on the box and here's the best example of expressed dislike I've enjoyed recently, with ImperfectRex sharing his feelings:"You know those old Sylvester and Tweetie-Pie cartoons? Sylvester the cat keeps seeing Tweetie-Pie as a roast chicken? Well, anytime I hear someone I know talking about the Apprentice, I just visualise them as zombie-chow. Anyone willing to voluntarily rot their brain like that just can't survive."Insistence on high standards is a chatterbox constant (apart from posts and Best Of deadlines....) exemplified by our regulars like Amipal: "Polished shoes are the sign of someone who has a modicum of pride. I've fallen behind the last couple of weeks due to hectic schedules in and out of work, but always pride myself on having the shiniest shoes when attending weddings."Thursday's blog drew to a close and I'll say goodbye with Humofevil's first post of Thursday: "Hello, I think I'm still drunk." Because that's how we roll.Friday May 13The day started with some terrible news. Well liked blogger Milkncheese was cruelly snatched away by the cold icy hand of the unspeakable one. Although not actually dead, it became known he would no longer be posting on the blog which is more or less the same. Another blogger joins the ranks of the fallen.As it was Friday 13th, Keef asked to hear about the bloggers unluckiest gaming moments. It's fair to say some of these were less unlucky and more down to incompetence on the part of the gamer, as summed up by UncleB3n:"Trying to think of unlucky moments, but all I'm getting is ineptitude and buffoonery."ElQuesoDiablo had an engaging story of frustration and betrayal whilst playing fitness games with Kinect:"…As I said, it only wanted me to do three, but I did at least thirty or so before I stopped counting, waved my arms frantically and started yelling, 'What do you want from me?!'"I think we can all relate to this in some small way.Friday being new release day there was some talk of the unleashing of Brink. There was a lot of anticipation around this game and a few negative reviews failed to put off those who had their hearts set on this. With the upcoming release of LA Noire, a review appeared briefly on the Gamesblog page before being quickly taken down due to an embargo (whoops). This short window was enough for the entire review to be posted on the box, its glowing praise heightening the already red hot anticipation for Rockstar's latest.Just what is the best music in a video game? Well, the blog made an effort to come to a consensus, failing miserably. Everything from Kasabian to Japanese J-Pop was mentioned. Post-lunch discussion turned to a fictional UK branch of Dignitas, the famous Swiss clinic. This more or less comprised of bloggers listing places they'd been to, lived near or lived in that they didn't like. Fairly standard blog fare but interesting that there can be quite so many places people don't like. Each to their own!As is usual in the afternoons, New York resident OpinionatedMike appeared to give his inimitable take on things. Ever the one for modesty, Mike was struggling to hit his usual blogging heights:"Today I feel I'm lacking that certain brilliance that I've become known for"Love him or hate him, Mike provides ample material for the Best Of. Americans eh? Us Brits will never truly understand them.And so Friday drew to a close with the usual smorgasbord of chat. Some of it was coherent discussion of relevant topics, some of it was petty squabbling and some of it was just plain old hooting into the abyss. Thankfully everyone had their weekends to look forward to, and the looming shadow of Monday was still a faint slither of dark in an otherwise sunny room. Silveryfox summed up the end of Friday perfectly:"Afternoons on the blog are equivalent to a day out at the funny farm"A truer word about the Chatterbox was never spoken.Monday May 16The weekend had seen Azerbaijan and Manchester United triumph, Sony bringing PSN back online and the Chuckle Brothers performing in Scunthorpe for the first time in 40 years.[Erm, you've forgotten about the FA Cup. Years without a trophy? 00 – Keef]Given the football season was coming to a close, a lot of people talked about it. I'd elaborate, but my eyes kind of glaze over when I'm reading it. Good (depending on your point of view) news for our own Goody as he announced securing his other half's PES-related skills for the foreseeable future by way of a promise of marriage. Now that's taking your hobby seriously. This prompted a flurry of conversation around boxers' proposals. We are a romantic bunch for the most part, although it is telling that a good few took place in the evening/at night, when the light's not so good.The usual suspects put in an appearance: Bloodbowl, PES, Demons Souls.The afternoon saw a discussion on the merits (or lack thereof) of Lady Gaga.  Yes, that's what I said, Lady Gaga. Imperfect Rex, to his credit (and confirming the average age of the box), did try to get the situation in hand: "At this age, we should be complaining that it's all noise, not trying to 'get' Lady Gaga."  Time to break out the 'Dad' music?People gradually filtered out and left only the stragglers, most of whom seem to communicate using obscure internet-based translation services.Quotes of the day"Still with the labyrinthitis. I am not amused"Cunning wishes he hadn't watched Bowie in his tight pants over and over at the weekend."I used to want to go live in the woods when I was little, I used to want to be an elf too."Sarah Hawke shares some of the things she normally saves for her therapist.Tuesday May 17The announcement of Sony's welcome back package was fairly well received.  It's basically a load of free stuff for the free network being down. Don't mind if I do thank you very much. A lot of forums saw many comments complaining about the poor selection of games. Not in the chatterbox though – I like to think we're a more evolved species of gamer but in truth it's probably more a case of 'Owt for nowt'.The on-going Game of Thrones also dominated the morning's chat, with Simian admiring bertjansch's parenting skills: "Boobies, pause, blow job, pause, incest, pause, you were pausing it so they wouldn't miss the good bits?"Sagesmith, obviously preparing for the inevitable, asked the question, "Where would be the safest place to hide out in a zombie apocalypse? A hospital? An undertakers?" Now there's a man who hasn't thought things through. A few boxers seem to favour the more remote Scottish islands.  A sound plan perhaps and in no way influenced by the presence of various distilleries I'd imagine.Music was once again a topic, with Jeff Wayne's War of the Worlds proving popular. Who knew David Essex could be so timeless? Is a career resurgence in the offing with his imminent appearance in Eastenders?  Sadly, there was no mention of 'Gonna make you a star' in the remaining discussion, focussing mainly on Motown.Just to prove that, as with many things in life, the box is cyclical in nature (i.e. we talk about the same things over and over and over) Haikus put in an appearance again with a few boxers demonstrating their ability to compose Japanese style poetry.Quotes of the day"The bear is real, and not to be joked about"Tjvs takes his Paddington very seriously."I believe I have actually raised the standard of chat. At least Mike isn't going to get in Best Of today."Limni doesn't lack for confidence but his precognition skills are wanting.Wednesday May 18Hump-day began somewhat later than usual, as the typically punctual Chatterbox appeared at around 10:15 am. Earlier on, RustyJames admitted he and Riadsala had failed to play their Blood Bowl match. The Hammer of Pootle proved swift and deadly and a stern warning was sent out to those who don't manage to play their matches before the week has ended. A bit of moaning and groaning ensued from those who don't appreciate the dictatorial stance of HenryPootle. Perhaps Rusty's level of suffering is a suitable excuse? "I hurt my back recently drunkenly messing about. I also got another eye ulcer. Luckily, I'm drugged up to the eyeballs so it doesn't hurt too much at the moment."Pressure was also mounting to confirm the date and location of the Chatterbox Summer Meat, the second such gathering of intellectual colossi. Scamander, needing to make travel arrangements, was pushing for an answer – but akaSilky won't be happy that we've settled on July 30th as he's at a wedding that day. To be honest, unless it's his own then he needs to sort his priorities out. SirGiggidy will yet again display his impressive dedication and fly to London from Scotland in order to attend and break everyone's hands.Uncle3en talked about Manchester United.What is the best breakfast? Colossal Scot WeeCooper contends: "The best breakfasts are leftovers I reckon. This morning I had steak &amp; haggis pie and it was wonderful. A pie of majesty and beauty." Other suggestions are warmed-up curry, cold pizza (also a hangover cure apparently), chicken chow mein with egg-fried rice and, "cold pizza and cold curry sandwich using the pizza as the bread". HereComesTreble rounded the discussion off nicely: "I don't keep leftovers. I'm financially quite comfortable."Quotes of the day"I trust all are well, or not. I have no emotion."TonyHayers returns from holiday."Fish Curry, at 11am? Who are these maniacs?"New blogger SBY818 can't believe what RowLarry has to suffer.Thursday May 19Nearly the weekend. So very nearly. Thursday then? Windowgazer kicked things off:  "Is it wrong to add sugar to Frosties? Not that I do it. Just wondering really." The general consensus was that adding sugar to a sugary cereal was the preserve of the crazy, the greedy and the Americans.  SandySleaze didn't entirely agree though: "This is fine in my view. It's like the less rock 'n roll version of coke on your cornflakes."The return of PSN led to great excitement over the first NaN Thursday since before Easter.  There was some confusion (possibly connected) about wearing mismatched shoes, and how anyone could make such an elementary mistake. Limni confessed to doing it deliberately, presumably in an attempt to make himself more interesting.Polar Bear vs Tiger was the hot topic of the morning, with the more enlightened bloggers betting on the big white fella (fact: a polar bear weighs twice as much as a tiger. It's no contest) whilst the more credulous felt that the environment, weapons and ninja skills would all have a bearing.   SockpuppetPseudonym was unhappy about the whole showdown however:"Why do the Polar bear and the tiger not get along? Is it a personality clash? Maybe they could work through these feelings together and resolve their conflict in a more positive way?  Let's workshop this. Maybe some expressive dance or primal drumming would help?"Predatory mammal encounters moved us towards the weightier matters of quantum physics. The classic Schrodinger's Cat experiment was discussed, with many of us not quite grasping it or indeed quantum physics generally.  This is probably to the benefit of science, but the one conclusion we could all agree on was that Schrodinger hated cats.If there's one thing the Chatterbox loves, it's superlatives. Today's was Best TV Detectives, with Columbo winning out. One superlative usually leads to another and horizons were broadened to all fictional detectives, where of course, Sherlock Holmes is best. Harry Callahan, The Hardy Boys and Sharky and George gave him a run for his money though.[It's Philip Marlowe! – Keef]From the best of things to the worst – rage quitting in real life. There was some debate as to what defined this – is leaving a queue a rage quit, or just being bored? Walking out of a football match or a film in disgust before the end definitely was. Maiquitol managed to trump everyone though:  "I once rage-mooned the Queen. I was having a crap time at work. It was a hot summer. The Queen was opening some new building in Fenchurch Street, four floors down and across the street from my office. In a fit of republican rage and frustration I down-trousered and waved my bum out the window at her."  Amazing.Lastly, we discovered that there is a PC game called Bus Simulator 2.  Meaning that it is a sequel. Serious about your hobby…Quotes of the Day"I've reported my own post for abuse. Idiotic."Uncle3en finally comes back to earth after Utd's 19th title."Thanks, was trying to remember DVD's character in Diagnosis Murder.For some reason I love this show, maybe because I love Dick, I will watch any TV show with Dick in it and have a whole stash of Dick films at home which I watch when my wife is in bed (she doesn't really like Dick that much).  Seriously I sometimes wonder if I can ever get enough Dick."BlueAndWhiteBoy reveals a hitherto unsuspected man crush on Dick Van Dyke. We think.Friday May 20So many questions. What's with all the questions? Just give it a rest with the questions! It seemed every other post was a question. A thinly veiled accusation. A boast with a question mark at the end of it. But what were the answers? Were there any answers? To be honest, I forgot what the questions were. So I went back and read some. Here's the best of them, and some other… stuff.Simian was first up to poke the finger, asking the blog, "What's your biggest disappointment?" Talk about a red rag to a bull. A bull that was already abnormally tetchy. I mean, this thing was angry. It was probably hurt somehow, perhaps a flesh wound or something, but still capable of doing tremendous damage to those around it. Is the bull here a metaphor? Is the injury a metaphor? I don't know. I literally don't know what the word metaphor means. But it sounds clever. People are always saying it.So what's your biggest disappointment? Your number one complaint? "I'm trapped in a disfunctional relationship. I'll be honest, the love has gone." I would counter by saying that you simply do not understand the pressures that women are under these days. "It's my children. They look a bit stupid." Hardly 'Father of The Year' material there, and I think you should be ashamed of yourself. "The psoriasis has been giving me terrible grief recently." All popular complaints. Popular let-downs. But there was something else. Something bigger than all those things. That something was GAMES. They always put it in capitals like that. I'm not sure why. It's just the way they write it.People on a games blog, hating on games. I felt sick to my stomach. "Games are a bit rubbish", someone said. Can you imagine? There's a fair chance that someone did say that, almost word for word. I'm paraphrasing here."Who is the ugliest footballer?" "Can you name an ugly footballer XI?" Someone said Iain Dowie. I bet they wish they were half the player Iain was. Or, indeed, half the man he is today. I skipped ahead a bit at that point. I just felt that a lot of the criticism was unfair, and totally uncalled for. I felt like they should've known better. Playground stuff."Many gamers have unbalanced brains and are socially inept, and so won't like LA Noire – which is a game for intelligent gamers with balanced brains". Indeed, pressing 'X' a few times to move between (admittedly impressive) cut-scenes takes a special breed of gamer. The type of gamer who's prepared to waste away entire working days with other gamers, talking about what it's like to be a gamer. LA Noire was clearly destined to be a hit with the blog. Many bloggers had in fact picked it up earlier that day. It would be pretty pointless if I was repeating what everyone was saying about it here, with most of it being wildly unfounded speculation at best. Many people reading this will have played the game by now anyway. Most of them have probably traded it in already. Yesterday's news. A damning indictment of what's become an increasingly disposable gaming culture.Again, I'm not really sure what that last bit means. But it sounds kind of clever, so it must be good.Nothing much happened after 3.30pm. "Have a good weekend." "Hope you all have a cracking weekend." "Enjoy your weekends, folks." Stop telling me how to live my life.Quote of the Day"Skimming the page, I'm up and down more than Horst's phone after a round of Blood Bowl league games."Onedaveofmany walking away with the geeky in-joke of the day award.End gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – 'Here comes my baby' by Cat Stevens.Check theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This massive 'Best of' epic written by TJVS, Smellavision, Onedaveofmany, Foolsgold, Simian, Killerbee, EnglishRed, St00, Sandysleaze, Crispycrumb, HerecomesTreble, Limni and McBegbie. It was edited by OneDaveofMany, Simian and McBegbie.
Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur are joined by Guardian games correspondent Keith Stuart in the Tech Weekly studio this week for an exclusive preview of next week's Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles. Also known as E3, the Expo is the shining light in the games consumer calendar. This year's show is expected to be punctuated with news of a new console from Nintendo, Sony's gameplan for market recovery, and Microsoft's new user interaction system. Oh, and a flood of new games.The Guardian team are also joined by Ben Roome from Nokia Siemens Networks who demystifies the 4G mobile broadband spectrum. Just in time for the launch of a trial between BT and Everything Everywhere in Cornwall, Ben breaks down the jargon and tells us what we can expect from the next generation of mobile and fixed-line connectivity.All this, plus the news with Jemima Kiss, on this week's Tech Weekly.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Shares in the Finnish phone maker Nokia plunged by 15% on Tuesday as the companywarnedthat it may make no profit on phone sales in the quarter to the end of June, and that overall phone sales will be "substantially below" its earlier forecast of €6.1bn to €6.6bn.The company said that for the period from April to June, operating margins will be "substantially below its previously expected range of 6% to 9% ... primarily due to lower than previously expected net sales". It also scrapped full-year forecasts, saying it was no longer "appropriate to provide annual targets for 2011".Though it is still the biggest maker by volume of both handsets and smartphones, selling about 100m and 24m respectively per quarter, Nokia has been buffeted at the high end by Apple's iPhone and smartphones using Google's Android operating system, while at the low end it faces challenges from "white box" manufacturers from China that can undercut it on price for standard mobile handsets.That forced the company to admit that its operating margins for handsets this quarter "could be around breakeven".In the second quarter of 2010 Nokia's mobile phone business made €643m profit on revenues of €6.8bn, and in the first quarter of 2011 recorded €690m profit on €7.1bn of revenue.The collapse in the share price took it down to May 1998 levels. The announcement adds to the deepening sense of crisis around the company, once the undisputed leader in the mobile phone business. It was overtaken for total revenue in the first quarter by Apple,  which sold 18.7m iPhones – at nearly five times the average price of a Nokia smartphone, and 10 times the average price of a Nokia handset.Nokia said that its products are coming under intense price pressure, especially in China and Europe, where the combination of cheap phones from other manufacturers running Google's Android mobile operating system and Apple's high-end iPhone have squeezed its position.The company reiterated its plan to dump its current Symbian operating system for Microsoft's Windows Phone OS on its high-end smartphones from "the fourth quarter of 2011" as part of a longer-term plan to restore the company's fortunes.Carolina Milanesi, mobile phones analyst for the research company Gartner, said Tuesday's warnings could mark the low point for Nokia, which has not made a loss in its handset division for more than a decade."It's going to get worse before it gets better," Milanesi said. "The second quarter should be the worst – if it isn't then they have worse problems than we thought they did. In the third and fourth quarter this year there will be new products. If they can't get traction with those then it will be a big issue."The Finnish company is undergoing a tumultuous upheaval under its new chief executive Stephen Elop, who took over the job in September. He decided that the long-running Symbian software that had powered previous Nokia phones was outdated and that in smartphones, which makes up about a quarter of the 100m handsets the company sells each year, would be replaced over the next two years by Microsoft's Windows Phone software.Part of the change has involved cutting thousands of staff, including outsourcing many involved with Symbian to the consultancy Accenture."Strategy transitions are difficult. We recognise the need to deliver great mobile products, and therefore we must accelerate the pace of our transition," Elop said. "Our teams are aligned, and we have increased confidence that we will ship our first Nokia product with Windows Phone in the fourth quarter 2011."Analysts said that they found the abrupt change worrying. Lee Simpson of Jefferies &amp; Co said: "You clearly have a Symbian platform that [mobile] operators are avoiding ... But it shouldn't be too surprising that we get another profit warning from Nokia for the Q2 and Q3 periods. What does strike us as quite surprising is the level to which the markets have dropped, we're talking about breakeven now which is quite a slide. I think this level of shareholder destruction is now starting to look dangerous: what can these guys do to reverse this? Our stance is that it's very difficult to value this business right now, because it has to be a different animal if and when it gets into recovery."Jari Honko of Swedbank said: "The truth about Nokia's competitiveness has come out now. We know that the company is loss-making at a group level. Consensus estimates will react strongly, and so will the shares. We will see more and more reflection on Nokia's market share, and that is the worst thing to happen to this company, when the scale is shrinking fast."He added: "It remains to be seen how low [market share] could go, but for smartphones we are talking about going under 20% this year." Only two years ago Nokia had a 40% share of the smartphone market, but it was passed in the first quarter of this year by Android, with 32%. Nokia had 24% and Apple 18%.
Activision has describedCall of Duty: Eliteas "one of our most ambitious and exciting undertakings". The vast social networking system has been designed to revolutionise the way Call of Duty players meet, engage and compete online – and they'll have to pay a monthly subscription fee for the privilege.It's a huge and controversial undertaking for the publisher, and a fascinating attempt to monetise the world of online shooter games. But how did the idea come about, and where is it going? To find out, we spoke to Activision Publishing's chief executive, Eric Hirshberg.What are the origins of Call of Duty: Elite?It started with us observing the number of hours people were spending playing multiplayer. This game has a certain long tail in that regard, and it's a year-round thing, it's not just focused on launch. We want to supercharge that multiplayer experience – it's as simple as that. Our culture has become more connected and there are a growing number of technologies to bring people together around the things they love. We're taking a lot of those patterns and applying them in a very focused way around Call of Duty.What have been been the key influences onthe design and structure of Elite? Have you looked mostly to social networking sites, or to digital content services such as Netflix?The influences have been very wide. On one hand, we've looked at social media. We've taken a lot of pages from those playbooks in terms of giving people the ability to easily upload and create user-generated content, giving people lots of forums to post messages, giving people the ability to curate their friends and the people they connect with … All of that stuff is clearly influenced by trends in social media. But we also looked at complex financial sites – we asked: what's the best in class for presenting very deep statistical information to people in a very user-friendly way? A lot of sports sites, especially fantasy football sites, do that very well. We've also looked at other entertainment services outside gaming to get ideas – Netflix, iTunes, that sort of thing.Elements of the Elite service will be free to all Call of Duty players – can you elaborate on what those are?That hasn't been finalised. We're not revealing the specifics of the business model until the summer. But I will tell you there's a dual strategy in play. One element is to simply give back to our fans, and to help solidify their relationship with Call of Duty, and we think the deeper connection people feel with the community of players, the deeper connection they'll have with the game itself. The other part is, obviously, if we're able to create new services that have real value to people, then of course they'll be willing to pay for them. So there will be elements where, if you really want to supercharge the experience, you'll be able to do that.You've introduced this Facebook Groups-like element, allowing players to find and play against competitors with similar interests outside the game. Is this all about creating a more welcoming environment for more casual gamers who have been reticent about trying online gaming?Absolutely. If you look at the statistics, people spend an average of 58 minutes per day playing Black Ops in multiplayer. The average Facebook user spends 55 minutes per day on Facebook – so people are really engaged with this on an amazing level. And right now, you don't have a tremendous amount of control over that multiplayer experience, you don't have a lot of control over who you play against or connecting with or finding particular friends, or the ability to play against people of a similar skill level, or interests, or geography - and Elite gives you all of those tools. It gives you control – and that's what social networks are all about.But a big part of what stops people playing online is that they don't want to play against strangers – and yet their friends are never online at the same time. This is what EA's Autolog system forNeed For Speed: Hot Pursuitcleverly addressed: it allows people to compete against their friends' times and scores asynchronously. How much of that will be in Elite?What Elite will do is give you the ability to curate a list of friends, and people you are interested in playing with and following –  and you'll be constantly alerted to their progress, when they're playing. There's the online game, then there's online fame and we want to give people the ability to enjoy both.You'll be able to mine masses of data from user activity on Elite – will this be used to shape future Call of Duty game content and design decisions?Absolutely. From a pure product development standpoint, if Elite gains traction and is successful, we'll have the best feedback loop imaginable in terms of what's working and what isn't, what's frustrating people, and what could be better – we'll be using that dialogue with our fans constantly. I think all great software companies have that feedback – I can't count the number of times I've been using the iTunes Store or similar and there's an update, and the one thing that was bugging me, they somehow heard that and got it fixed. That's something I'm looking forward to with Call of Duty.Is development of Elite an ongoing service? Will it evolve?Yes, as with Facebook and iTunes, a product like this is never really done – you're constantly evolving and you're constantly responding to feedback, patterns and trends and making it better. There will be a tremendous ongoing investment in continual improvements.
Steve Jobs is to take to the stage at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference in San Francisco next week to launch the next generation of Apple's mobile software, iOS 5, the company has confirmed.The appearance will only be Jobs's second public one this year. In January, he announced that he wastaking medical leave from the companyfor unspecified reasons – though they are believed to be complications arising from his surgery in 2004 to remove a neuroendocrine tumour from his pancreas.He then appeared unannounced topresent the iPad 2 in March. Since then his public appearances have been limited, though a photograph had appeared of him at adinner with other Silicon Valley notables with President Barack Obamain February. Since then he has not made any other public appearances, though he has occasionallyresponded to customer emailsover matters such as the iPhone's apparent tracking of user location.In a rare advance announcement, Apple confirmed WWDC's key software announcements with iOS 5, the next version of its iPhone operating system, due to preview alongside Mac OS X 10.7 Lion, the eighth version of the Mac OS operating system. (Eighth? Because it started at 10.0.0 in March 2001.) Both were widely expected and will be detailed in the keynote speech led by Jobs and "senior Apple executives" – expected to include head of marketing Phil Schiller and Scott Forstall, head of iOS development.Apple also confirmed that it will unveil "iCloud", which it described as its "cloud services" offering. Given that Apple already offers some of those services through its MobileMe paid subscription product - including calendars, email, web hosting and file storage – there will be intense interest around iCloud.The expectation is that it will effectively upgrade iTunes, allowing users to stream music directly to their devices. Apple has reportedly signed three of the four major music labels, with Universal close to signing.That would be a riposte to Google and Amazon, which have unveiled cloud music services that reviewers have so far been underwhelmed by. Amazon in particular did not get any licensing from music labels – meaning that people can only stream music that they have either bought or uploaded to the service. The expectation is that iCloud may allow users to stream any song that they already own, an echo of Michael Robertson's plans implemented in the 1990s at MP3.com. That was shut down by lawsuits from the record companies.• Lion is expected to include improvements to Apple Mail, Finder and iCal, a "reading list" and "Mission Control" and the introduction of some successful  user interface features from the iPad, such as more semi-transparent windows for less important elements such as downloads in progress on a browser. The mention of iCloud could also indicate a move to include a feature not unlike cloud-based file storage service Dropbox.Other elements introduced by Lion include the ability to resize windows by dragging any part of the edge – something Windows users have been used to for decades.Latest leaks suggest that the overall colour scheme has continued to be toned down – a persistent theme in each Mac OS X version.  The OS overall looks "flatter", with user interface elements given less apparent depth.AppleInsider has a long-running guide to changes in Lion.• iOS 5 is expected to integrate further with Lion, and offer new "widgets" that will display custom information on the device's home screen – a response to Google's lead in providing "notifications" (about arriving emails, statuses, messages and so on) on Android. While iOS has a substantial lead in developers and app downloads over Android, the rapid evolution of Google's product has left a number of influential users calling for a better notification system than the passive "updated icon with a number" or active "modal dialog" which blocks other activities. Apple last June hired Rich Dellinger, who designed the notification system for Palm's webOS, away from that company and back to the company where he worked between 1999 and 2006. The expectation is that his input will be crucial to iOS 5.• One more thing? As always, the rumours that Jobs will reveal some extra bit of hardware to wow the crowd persist. Some are suggesting a refresh of the MacBook Air; others have not given up hope of seeing the iPhone 5 (or 4S, or 4G). A report in the International Business Times labelled the next iPhone as iPhone 4S with a faster processor and 8-megapixel camera, as well as compatibility with both GSM and CDMA networks.
The news that Android users who have jailbroken their phones will be denied access to the new commercial YouTube pay-per-view service is as neat an example of copyright extremism as you could hope for.Android, of course, is Google's wildly popular alternative to Apple's iOS (the operating system found on iPhones and iPads). Android is free and open – it costs nothing to copy, it can be legally modified and those modifications can be legally distributed. Android products come in varying degrees of lockdown; flagship devices such as the Samsung Nexus S are easy to set up to run competing, unofficial flavours of Android (such as CyanogenMod, which adds lots of useful features and controls to your phone that are missing from the stock Android version). Other phones use various kinds of hardware and software locks that try to get in the way of installing your own OS, and while Google doesn't prohibit this behaviour from its vendors, it also doesn't encourage it – until now.YouTube is another famous Google product, and it's been a source of consternation for the broadcast and film industries since its inception.Viacom is presently appealing a judgment against it inits infamous legal bid to shut down the service. Documents revealed during the previous court proceedings featured Viacom executives vigorously and profanely debating which one of them would get to run YouTube once they'd sued it into oblivion. This potent mixture of fear and lust for YouTube is why Viacom was paying multiple ad agencies to sneak video clips on to YouTube even as it was suing it, even going so far as to "rough up" the video before posting it so that it appeared to come from dodgy pirate sites – presumably, posting studio-fresh clips would have given the game away.Clearly, YouTube has something the entertainment industry wants – reach. And the entertainment industry has something YouTube wants – popular video. While it's true that the vast majority of video on YouTube is "home-made", or at least not the mainstream content produced by large commercial rights holders, there's no denying that there is lots of infringing material from the big studios and broadcasters up there too.Which brings us to YouTube's video-on-demand service, through which you can view some commercial material from the big studios. You don't buy the video, though – just access to it. The product being offered is a stream, not a download – the difference being that when you get a stream, your device is meant to throw the bits away instead of saving them. The entertainment industry likens this to a rental, rather than a purchase.But a stream isn't precisely like a rental (I bring home a DVD, then I bring it back again), nor like a purchase (I bring home a DVD, then I keep it). It's a file transfer. When you stream a movie from YouTube, you receive a copy of it, and you can keep that copy, provided the software you're using doesn't override your wishes.Which brings us back to where we started: unless you're running a very specific version of Google's software on your phone or tablet, you can't "rent" movies on YouTube. Google – the vendor – and the studios – the rights holders – are using copyright to control something much more profound than mere copying. In this version of copyright, making a movie gives you the right to specify what kind of device can play the movie back, and how that device must be configured.This is as extreme as copyright gets, really. Book publishers have never told you which rooms you could read in, or what light bulbs you were allowed to use, or whether you could rebind the book or take it abroad with you. Broadcasters have never vetoed the design of radios.The extension of copyright to "configuration right" is a profound shift in the history of technology and culture. There are lots of reasons to want to a non-stock OS on your Android phone; some versions allow you to assert fine-grained privacy controls, others add features useful to people with disabilities; others make it simpler to use cheap/free voice-over-IP for long-distance calls. There are at least as many reasons to want to redecorate and reconfigure your phone, your computer or your tablet as there are reasons to rearrange your kitchen or redecorate your bedroom.But in order to be certain that your phone will disobey you in the event that you order it to make a prohibited copy, Google has to assert a veto over the entire operating environment. It must treat you as if you are your computer's tenant, not its owner, and make itself over as the landlord, specifying what carpet you can lay down and whether you can repaint the walls.This novel theory of copyright is the antithesis of the "openness" that Google advertises as the unique selling proposition for Android. What's more, it has a predictable trajectory: users will discover that an ever-expanding list of requirements must be met in order to continue to "rent" copyrighted works on their Android devices. Third-party apps that defeat the anti-copying measures will be banned, and apps whose characteristics can't be verified will be locked out just to be safe. As we've seen before with these sorts of licensing deals, when rights holders have a technology partner who can be blamed for unpopular restrictions, they become quite fearless about adding new conditions to your tenancy.After all, that's what happened the last time Google did a deal like this. Back in 2006,Google Video opened up a "store" that let you "buy" movies and TV shows, all restricted in a fashion similar to the new YouTube store. And in 2007,it shut it downand confiscated all the videos its customers had "bought," explaining that the rights holders had changed their minds about the store. Google Video customers got Google Checkout credit (a kind of virtual funny money), good for 60 days, that they could use to buy things that weren't the videos they thought they'd purchased. It was as if HMV had a tiff with Universal Studios and had to send burglars around to all their customers' houses to take their Universal movies away, leaving behind time-limited Argos gift vouchers by way of compensation.Google looked as if it had lain down with the dogs and woken up with fleas. Now it's back in the kennel, having learned nothing. It's come a long way from its early days, when it refused to compete with other search engines by running banners or accepting paid placement – when Google's policy was "don't be evil" and "don't suck".
