&#183;The rush to provide people  with free text messaging from their desktop computers continues unabated following Vodafone and Orange's moves into the area last month (see Business Solutions, October 28). Midentity, a "personal  digital identity" specialist,  operates by adding software to Outlook and Outlook Express so that you can get a picture of  your contacts easily, as well as a history of your dealings with them, and synchronising with  them when they change address. The comapny has added the facility to text fromthe desktop to its offering. The advantage the company believes it has over the mobile phone providers is  that if you're a Midentity customer already you won't be tied to a particular network supplier, as this is independent of any mobile contract.&#183;Ontrack Data Recovery  has compiled a list of odd  things people do under the impression that it will help  them preserve their data, and the ways that data is lost. The most bizarre include  putting your laptop in the  freezer because someone told  you this would make it work  again. One company fouled  up plans for its new building  when a steel girder fell on to  the laptop that contained the  architectural drawings.  Another user put the laptop  on the top of a car, forgot it  was there and reversed over  it when it slid off. Ontrack,being a specialist in rescuing  data, stresses that help is  often available when things  look hopeless, but that there  is no substitute for backing  up data and practising  restorations a couple of  times to make sure it's  working.&#183;Good news if your company  is in e-commerce and sells to  consumers - European  e-commerce sales are set to  overtake those happening in  the US for the first time this  Christmas. Forrester  Research, the source of the  figures, believes that  European online spending  will reach &euro;13bn compared  to &euro;10bn in the US, because  we're getting more affluent  over here and buying larger  items. The UK is expected to  contribute around one-third  of the total of online sales in  Europe during the festive  season.&#183;Internet management  specialist Equiinet  (www.equiinet.co.uk) has  released new versions  (version 3.1.1) of its NetPilot  and Sentry ranges. The aimis to offer more controls  over junk email or spam,  this time based on Bayesian  filtering, and to put in extra  controls over corporate  emails. It is aimed  specifically at smaller  companies who don't, for  example, have any IT support  staff so they need controls  which are easy to use and  manage. The Bayesian  filtering is based on  mathematical principles  and aims to eliminate spam  while throwing out few  false positives. It also  offers managers control  over who may send an email  into a company at a given  time.&#183;Late payment is no joke for  the small business, but  Direct Credit has released  an e-book of some of the  more absurd excuses people  have given out, which is  available at  www.directcredit.co.uk/  paymedirect. Including  cartoons by Punch and  Private Eye cartoonist Mike  Mosedale, some of the more  colourful reasons for  non-payment include "thepost box was on fire", "the  bank burned down and  nobody could verify the  account", "my boyfriend ran  off with the money" and  "they said the cheque writer  was dead but we knew he  was alive". The serious  angle to the booklet is that  it offers advice on  recovering undelivered  funds, which is important  since the booklet states that  90% of small to medium  enterprises believe they  could be prevented from  trading by late payments.&#183;Internet service provider  Tiscali has decided to focus  almost entirely on the small  to medium business with  three contract offerings for  broadband, starting at  £15.99 per month. The  cheaper end of the offerings  is an always-on connection  with spam and virus  filtering, running at 256 kbps.  This is about half the speed  of most broadband  connections but if a  company's requirement is  for immediate emailing of  small messages rather than  large files and downloads,it should be sufficient.  Faster speeds cost  progressively more, and  each of the new accounts  offers a gigabyte of storage  space and 20 email  accounts. For details go to  www.tiscali.co.uk/offer.  NTL is also muscling in on  the small business sector  with its Broadband Lite  offering, which starts at  £24.99 for a 750kbps  connection.&#183;Looking for a phone  number? Then according to  research from Easily.co.uk  you're unlikely to be doing  so using a paper telephone  directory, but will almost  certainly prefer to be  searching for details online.  Eighty-seven per cent of  Londoners were found to  be likely to use the net to  look for a number, with the  figure falling to 68% in  Yorkshire - still a sizeable  majority. This will be a  source of concern to the 28%  of small businesses who  still don't have a website  (see Business Solutions,  September 24).
It's easy, as a small and  growing business, to be  dazzled by big deals to the  point where profitability -  and therefore the health of  the business - is forgotten. It's  one of the biggest reasons why  small firms go under."Which would you prefer - a  company with a £5m turnover  making £100,000 profit a year,  or a business with a turnover of  £500,000 making £200,000 a  year?" cautions Jeremy Cooper,  a partner at the accountancy  and business advisory service  provider Horwart Clark  Whitehill LLP."Accountants warn about  sales being for show, profit for  'dough', and that's for a good  reason," he warns. "You have to  be in business to make a profit,  otherwise the company will  fail. Think back to the internet  bubble of the late 1990s -  companies were given huge  amounts of money to develop  IT businesses, with many  surviving for only a few years  before burning their investors'  funds. Why did the cash  eventually run out? Because the  businesses' expenditure was  greater than their income, and  the business models were incapable of ever making a  profit in the first place."It's not always obvious where  a company's real profits come  from, though. Petrol stations,  for example, rely on their  forecourt shops to compensate  for paltry margins on fuel.  Restaurants make their highest  margins on drinks, whereas  pubs make money on food.It's important, therefore, that  businesses can tell the  difference between revenues  and profits, and understand the  role and contribution of each  product and service line from  both these perspectives.For many companies, while  their core business puts them  on the map and brings in the  customers, it's their more  peripheral, value-added  activities that generate the  profits. Both are clearly crucial;  the trick is recognising which  activities perform which  financial function, and what  could happen if one part of the  business grows more rapidly  than - or at the expense of -  the other.When former web  programmer Mike Fenney set  up his internet-based diving log  business 18 months ago, he  learned this the hard way. Like  many entrepreneurs, Fenney  started his business based on a  good idea borne out of his own  experiences as a consumer. As a  keen diver, Fenney had spotted  a gap in the market for a  convenient way of keeping a  dive log - the records people  keep of their diving experience  for safety purposes."You get a log book when you 'Small  qualify as a diver," Fenney says.  "After two years you need a new  one and the ones available were  too big and chunky."  Fenney found a small,  waterproof binder at Office  World and designed his own,  pages to make a dive log he  could use on his next diving  holiday. He was so pleased  with the results that in July last  year he launched the product  a web-based business  (www.dive-logs.com).Although revenues have  "grown through the roof" since  he started the business, the  company only broke even in  June this year.While he had a good core  product that had been well  received from the outset,  Fenney had made the decision  to sell this at a price that  undercut comparable products,  while adding value through the  enhanced user-friendliness of  his own offering. This would  make the product a "nobrainer"  and draw potential  customers in their thousands.After an initial 6 to 9 months'  setting-up period, Fenney saw  the business take off at  lightning speed. "We  experienced a huge growth  spurt, expanded globally and  extended the product range so that we became a one-stop  shop for everything associated  with dive-logging," he says.  The portfolio now includes a  customisable log-book stamp,  cards illustrating the different  fish to look out for and log-book  refill pages.Turnover now fluctuates  between £4,000 and £5,000  a month, ranging up to £8,000  after an event, such as an  exhibition. Yet although the  business is a one-man band,  and is internet-based, even  these figures haven't been  enough to sustain a profit."I expected an increase in  revenues to result in an  increase in profits, but the fixed  costs have gone up too," Fenney  says. To support a growing  online customer base divelogs.  com had to move from a  shared, hosted web server  service to a dedicated web  server to increase reliability. "I  once lost £100 of sales when  the server went down for an  hour," he says. "I couldn't afford  to be in that position again."  Another substantial cost  has been marketing - essential  to a new business. "In February  I decided to boost this to  generate greater volumes of  new business," Fenney recalls.  "The temptation was to chuck  money at this and I probably  spent £3,000 or £4,000 more  than I really wanted to. This  included being talked into  doing an advertorial in a  diving magazine, which  costme £1,000 and yielded  nothing. In contrast, I paid  £250 to do an email newsletter  which led to lots of orders."With the initial set-up  costs and learning curve out  of the way, dive-logs.com  crossed into the black in June,  and now turns in a modest  monthly profit of £1,000.  Ultimately, Fenney is looking  for a minimum monthly  surplus of £4,000. Key to this,  as well as remaining true to the  business plan and not being  seduced into over-spending on  ads, is making sure the business  gets the right balance of valueadded  activities to core, lowermargin,  standard products.So, while he offers its basic  binders for £10 compared to  market average of £15, Fenney  aims to make his real profits on  consumables - the refill pages  that need to be continually  refreshed, drawing customers  back time and time again.  He designs and prints these  himself to maximise margins.Of course there are other  important factors such as being  able to offset operating costs  against more than one business  activity, and the substantial  matter of cash - something  else that gets forgotten in the  pursuit of broader riches, but  which can be the undoing of  the smaller firm."I like to explain the profit  versus sales conundrum with  a simple analogy," says Paul  Samrah, a partner at the  chartered accountancy practice  Kingston Smith. "Your business  is a car: turnover is the petrol,  cash is the oil your engine  needs to run, and profit is the  distance covered. Clearly you  want the car to take you places  - to make profits. Poor turnover will clearly restrict  you, but a lack of cash could  cause the business to falter  or break down just when you  think you've taken care of  the obvious, important things.""Cash is king," concurs Toby  Stephenson, a partner at  accountants and business  advisory firm PKF. "Many  businesses expand by pushing  revenues without thinking  about the cash flow effects,  the increased working capital  that will be required."Another red-alert situation  when a substantial contract  comes up, he warns: "Although  this can give a small company  dramatic boost in both  turnover and profitability,  the company will become  reliant on that customer and  turn the customer may hold  business to ransom. To avoid  this risk, small companies  to be flexible and able to upsize  or downsize quickly, perhaps  using subcontractors, or tie  large customer to a long-term  contract.""Big companies are also  notorious for delaying  payments," adds Roger Martin-  Fagg, a lecturer on business  management at Henley  Management College. "A delay  of three weeks could close  business, so get the customer  realise the importance of  paying on time, or in  instalments if necessary."
If you're at all interested in  developments in the mobile  world, it's been hard to  avoid 3G in the last few  weeks. 3G is the next  generation of mobile phone  signal and is much faster than  the old sort (called 2.5G for  completists). Video phone  messaging has attracted the  most attention, as well as  sending multimedia messages  to family and friends.  But what, if any, are the  advantages for businesses?There are some, it appears.  The trick is to use the service  not so much as a phone but as  a conduit to the internet. The  days when you could connect  to the net using a slow GPRS  connection - the one that  comes with most mobile  phones at the moment -  could well be numbered. 3G  phones and cards will connect  you to the net at a speed of  384kbps - that's faster than  a dial-up account and faster  than the connection speed  that some companies are  describing as broadband  at the moment.But fast means different  things to different people.  Someone wanting simple  access to their emails will  probably not see a lot of  benefit from what could  turn into a costly upgrade,  whereas others will see an  improvement more or less  instantaneously.Martin Maclean, managing  director of the financial  software company Estoril,  confirms that his business  was already using mobile data cards before 3G became  a possibility."We used GPRS cards  before. Because of the  business we're in, we're at  airports quite a lot of the time.  I'm based out of Edinburgh  and a lot of my clients are in  London." Maclean was used  to picking up emails on the  move. They now arrive a bit  quicker, which is nice but  no great revelation. But he's  found other benefits. "All our  reports are generated on our  secure extranet," he says. "To  get access to these we have to  log in and are basically using  webpage browsing. The faster  we get that, the faster we're  doing live reporting with  clients in our offices."Using 02's Connection  Manager the company laptops  automatically select the  fastest connection available.  "It actually looks a lot more  professional because you're  not sitting there waiting for  the data to show up. I do  optimise everything I build for  GPRS, so the difference when  the speed goes up is amazing."Cost isn't much of an issue.  "I pay for cost per megabyte,  I'm just getting the megabytes  faster - I genuinely don't  think cost is going to be an  issue as what has happened  again and again is the cost per  megabyte comes down. I was  paying well over £1 a meg on  GPRS, and on some bundles I  can get a much better deal on  3G."Matthew Hopkinson, the  operations director for the  property company Property  Intelligence, also needs a  faster internet connection  than was previously available  on the move, and uses a  combination of 3G and the  hand-held Blackberry email  devices on a Vodafone  contract."3G offers our field  salesforce the ability to deliver  our product in an acceptable  format. We provide commercial property  information to surveyors, so  we go out and demonstrate  our product all around the  country and that entails  pulling back a hell of a lot of  data on a building. We provide  a photograph, an aerial  photograph, a map link,  information on occupiers,  owners, deals, availability. So  to pull all that data back for  a surveyor who's not the most  technically-savvy person in  the world, it's quite  important." GPRS has been  too slow historically and  even 3G is the bottom end of  acceptable, he says. "It's better  than dial-up but worse than  broadband."Its main selling point for  Hopkinson is its availability  to save time. When visiting  clients it's difficult to predict  whether they'll be set up to offer a spare connection. "It's  easier to say, 'look, don't worry  guys, I'll do it by 3G'. It could  be slower than a client's  internet connection - or  faster, depending on the  service they've got. It isn't  ideal, but it's better than  sitting there saying, 'sorry, we  can't do the demo because  there's no connection'."It's not just presentations  either. The company uses  3G to pull up its sales  management software from  the office and update it in realtime  when a sale happens. "It's  slow, but just about  manageable," says Hopkinson.  "You can go into a customer's  office, present, do a deal, go  out and then sit on a park  bench and get the admin of  that done and move on to the  next thing rather than having  to remember what was said  and agreed later."So far, so good. However,  one thing that will inevitably  hit the take-up of 3G is  the emergence of wireless  "hotspots". Many hotels, cafes  and airports have areas in  which you can hook up your  laptop or Wi-Fi enabled handheld  computer to the internet at broadband speed, instead  of really-quite-good-five-yearsago  speed. 3G, by comparison,  looked tired by the time it  made its belated entry into the  market. Fortunately for the  3G providers, Wi-Fi has yet to  become completely pervasive.  Until it does, anyone who  finds genuine benefit from an  always-on internet connection going quickly enough to  handle attachments and large  downloads without appearing  to freeze, and who'd like to  take that out of the office,  should find much to please  them in the new technology.Phones that mean businessThe trouble with 3G phones  is that manufacturers  are marketing more to  consumers than businesses.  Hence phones such as the  Nokia 6630, which is small,  elegant and includes a 1.2  megapixel camera, but has  Bluetooth functions much  more suited to the headset  user and occasional printer  than at anyone else.The Motorola A1000 is  more of a business tool. It has  Bluetooth and enough  memory (and a big enough  screen) to do something  useful with spreadsheet and  Word. Further down the food  chain, the same company's  phones are more concerned  with connecting people  who want to see each  other while they talk.Other phones are coming  through with business  functions built in - the  SonyEricsson V800  smartphone links to other  devices wirelessly. But for  the serious business user  Vodafone, O2, Orange and  the rest are offering their  cards. Plain and non-flashy,  they go into a laptop and  select either 3G or GPRS,  whichever connection is  available as you work.
Is the fashion world mostly digital?Digital doesn't seem to be quite working for the fashion world. I normally shoot on a 10x8 Sinar (www.sinar.ch) so I'm very large format, then we scan that negative and go digital from the second step. Then it is entirely digital, which takes me into the world of reproduction I hadn't been involved in previously as a photographer. I'm still concerned about archiving original images, which have been shot digitally. For the moment, I'm not going that way.How do you rate the XDAII's camera you used for your T-shirt image?I thought it was fine_ it served its purpose. What interests me about the new generation of camera-phones is the instantaneousness of them. The fact that you can text or email work is great. One of the old Nokias makes the highlights go hazy, which creates quite a romantic look from a modern piece of equipment. The image I took with the XDAII (http://tinyurl.com/4rh2k) was simple. All I wanted to do was take the front of a passport and put it on a T-shirt. The idea was to take a nationalistic symbol and make it freely available all over the world.How did the T-shirt project come about?The idea of free downloadable images to iron on to T-shirts was something we'd been doing at SHOWstudio (www.showstudio.com) for a while. O2 was interested so we got various people such as Erin O'Connor, Liberty Ross and myself to come up with images now available from the website.It is an interactive way of using your work.One of the reasons I started SHOWstudio was to provide a two-way medium. Nearly all the mediums I have been involved in have been one way. I produce the image and it goes out to the public. There is a finality that always makes me feel slightly arrogant as it smacks of polished, finished, untouchable connotations. When I started to get to grips with the internet I was fascinated by the fact that your audience can feed back to you, which changes the project. I also liked the idea that the free downloads were generous in nature - they're not about making a fast buck from the internet.Is multimedia messaging a godsend?Absolutely. On a project for Comme Des Garcons, we worked with a picture phone where I photographed Rei Kawakubo's collection and used MMS as a picture diary to communi cate with her. It's like a visual notebook. We incorporate mobile-phone imagery into advertising work. I took a picture of spotlight flares from a Kylie Minogue concert and dropped them into transparencies we used for Christian Dior. Mediums are mixing themselves up. People suggest things and I try to find ways of creating new imagery.Interviewed by Hamish MackintoshVisit:www.o2.co.uk/mmshirts
Vote now in Online's poll of the computer game of the year and win an Alienware Aurora, the hot rod of gaming PCs, worth &#163;1,600*. Last week, the competition, hosted on our games blog (blogs.guardian.co.uk/games/), centred on PC games. This week, the spotlight turns to handheld and mobile games, where an animated conversation on the blog has already led to our reviewers' list being challenged.Next week will feature console games, and the results of all three polls will be announced in Online on December 9. The winner will be chosen at random from genuine entries.November has proved a vintage month for games, with blockbuster titles such as Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, Halo 2, and the long-awaited Half-Life 2 (see page 20) vying for the top spot.Judging by the comments on our blog site, Half-Life 2 has been a big hit with practically everyone, including those who took hours to navigate the downloading mechanism. But that doesn't mean it will win the PC side of the competition.Make sure you vote now. You can still vote for your favourite PC game and be in the frame to win a great prize.&#183;*The Alienware Aurora PC is powered by an AMD Athlon 64 FX 64-bitprocessor
The shady world of the virus writer is changing. Programmers of computer viruses used to do it for fun, out of intellectual curiosity, or just bloody-mindedness, infecting computers with malevolent code because they could. But now there are worrying signs that virus writing has evolved into a lucrative industry, with spammers, mobsters and blackmailers in on the act."What we've seen in the past 18 months or so is a shift in the way viruses work," says Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos, the UK-based anti-virus company. "It's all about money."Yesterday's viruses carried isolated payloads, which could be anything from displaying a benign message on the screen to wiping your hard drive.Once the payload had been delivered and the virus had copied itself to another machine, its work was done. Today's malware is often different: it creates a back door on a PC, enabling hackers to control it over the internet and use it for nefarious purposes."Zombies", or "bots", PCs that have been infected in this way, are being used to make money for a new generation of criminal, explains Alex Shipp, senior anti-virus technologist at MessageLabs. For example, "the hackers will change the phone number your PC's modem dials to dial an expensive number and make money for them. If you are using broadband, that's even better, because you have a fast connection to the internet. They can use your computer to send out spam and charge people for the service."Spammers prefer to send unsolicited commercial email from compromised machines on botnets because it makes it more difficult for recipients to block the mail, and it protects the spammers' servers from being tracked and shut down. Networks of tens of thousands of Windows PCs are used for such purposes. Telenor, an ISP, recently shut down a 10,000-strong botnet of computers controlled over the Internet Relay Chat (IRC) network.Once a team of virus writers has grown its botnet to a sufficient size, it can sell it as a resource. Sales of "botnet time" between criminals are often conducted through covert negotiations on IRC, the very mechanism used to control the botnets.Internet worms are now becoming increasingly sophisticated in their attempts to recruit desktop PCs into botnets. One of the latest, Bofra, sets up its own web server on an infected PC and then emails its address to contacts in the PC's email address book. When recipients click on the email - which has no virus inside it - they are taken to the infected PC, which in turn tries to infect their computers. Each infected computer listens on the IRC network for hackers that want to take control of it.The spread of Bofra has been limited, and corporate machines are unlikely to be infected by it because of weaknesses in the way it works. However, that doesn't matter, says Pete Simpson, Threatlab manager at Clearswift, an email security software company. "It's the unprotected PCs - the soft underbelly of the internet - that have been infected," he explains."These crooks are not interested in collecting owned corporate PCs. They are gathering a free resource that can be sold on for spamming attacks."The sort of people who use Windows PCs that have not been patched with recent updates, including SP2, and who don't have firewalls, are also the ones who may not notice their PC is being used for spamming, and won't know how to respond.Spamming isn't the only reason for collecting zombie PCs. Some criminals marshal "their" machines to mount distributed denial of service attacks on corporate computers, blackmailing the victims before they will stop the attacks. Websites of several online betting companies have been attacked recently, with floods of spurious data preventing them from handling genuine customers.Botnet machines can also be used as free web hosts, says Miko Hypponnen, head of anti-virus research at F-Secure, a security firm. "These guys use infected computers to run websites selling hardcore porn and illegal goods," he says. Hundreds of desktop PCs in the botnet host the same files, and the illegal URL can be pointed to a different machine every so often, making it more difficult to shut down the service.As the market for botnets begins to mature, the criminal business model behind them is also becoming more sophisticated. For example, phishing - in which emails are sent pointing to fake websites and asking recipients to provide account details - was this year's exploit. Now, says Richard Stiennon, vice president of threat research at Webroot, a spyware tracking firm, criminals are programming zombie machines to wait until a user visits a legitimate banking website and then capturing their account details as they log in.These botnet teams "are organised to the extent where they have cells and division of labour," says Stiennon. "One team harvests zombie machines, another writes the spyware, and another handles the payments. That takes real organisation."Who is behind this fast-growing criminal industry? Many of the groups come from Eastern Europe or Russia, and the UK's National High-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU) has in the past year arrested tens of people connected with identity theft and extortion through denial of service attacks. Such investigations involve working with authorities in other countries, and the criminals will be placed under more pressure with the launch this month of a new agency, the European Network and Information Security Agency (Enisa).Enisa will help coordinate criminal investigations, and with computer crime becoming increasingly global, nations will more than ever need to work together across regional boundaries to crack down on cyber crime.
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukPlease include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.Press releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
Higher purchaseIBM is making supercomputing available for rent by bringing its BlueGene server into its Deep Computing Capacity On Demand initiative. With prices starting at $1.5m to buy BlueGene, the cost will be hard to justify for occasional users of high performance applications. By renting capacity from its centres in the US and Europe, IBM will be able to maximise the use of its machines and guarantee capacity on demand for researchers in life sciences, financial modelling, hydrodynamics etc. IBM claims the BlueGene/L system that topped a recent list of the world's top 500 supercomputers is only a partial implementation, and performance will increase five-fold in the coming year.&lt;A HREF="http://www.research.ibm.com/dci/""&gt;www.research.ibm.com/dci/Open source govThe Dutch prime minister and the office of the Irish prime minister have joined forces to urge European governments to adopt a more open approach to IT. At the Open Standards and Libre Software in Government conference, EC government representatives announced major open source and free software projects. Delegates heard how the French government is tackling the migration of more than 100,000 desktop PCs to OpenOffice, an alternative to Microsoft Office. This was followed by a live demonstration of the desktop and server system used by the German embassy network. Representatives from the UK, Austria, Holland and Italy also described their open source experiences and plans.flosspols.org/conf/Bright ideaStreetlights will stay on in Nottingham if the latest city council initiative catches on. An interactive mapping system has been co-developed by the council, Ordnance Survey and IT firm ESDI to enable anyone living in the Nottingham area to report problems with street lighting, road surfaces and other local issues. The Nottingham Online Maps and Data service will provide environmental and planning information to residents. The service can also provide maps and aerial photographs for download. Council officers will regularly update the information and use   feedback to help plan maintenance workloads more effectively.tinyurl.com/6p7ckMobile unsweetIntellisync is attacking the separate point-solution development of mobile services - such as mobile email -within companies as being short-sighted. At the launch of its Mobile Suite management platform, the company highlighted problems arising from partial implementations installed with no thought to integrating other applications. Rip Gerber, an executive vice president, says that fear of managing several point solutions and security concerns are hindering take-up of the technology. His claim is supported by research from network specialist Omnetica, which places these concerns as the top two inhibitors. Omnetica's survey of 390 senior IT staff also reveals that 84% of respondents have yet to calculate the return on investment for mobile strategies.www.intellisync.comwww.omnetica.comJava driveSun Microsystems is formulating its open development strategy by making source code for the next version of Java, due for release in 2006, available on the internet. The publishing of code for Java 2 Platform Standard Edition 6.0 forms a major part of the company's Java.net project, and is the first time it has made pre-release source and binary code available. The move follows an experiment earlier this year where sections of current Java code were made available. Sun has yet to loosen its licensing to allow wider participation from the Java community, though it has said it is "considering adjustments".j2se.dev.java.netPolish reverseEuropean Union legislation supporting software patents was put in doubt last week when the Polish government switched sides, saying the directive could stifle innovation and hurt small and medium-sized businesses. The pro-patent countries now look unlikely to get the required majority. The plans are supported by large companies such as Nokia, Ericsson, Siemens, Philips and Alcatel, but are being fought by the open source movement.Avalon unveiledMicrosoft has given developers a "technology preview" of its new Avalon presentation technologies for Windows XP. Avalon was one of the core advances scheduled for Longhorn, the next generation version of Windows. However, Microsoft has backtracked and decided to make both Avalon and the Indigo web services platform available for XP and Server 2003. This will make them more widely available, but will also make Longhorn less attractive, because users will not need to upgrade to get all the new features.tinyurl.com/4mmnb
&#183;Music playersJust gets smallerArchos is offering a 20 gigabyte hard disk-based music player that is smaller and cheaper than the iPod, its rival. To go on sale this week, the Gmini XS200 has dimensions of 7.6 x 5.9 x 1.9cm, which makes it significantly smaller than all other 20GB players. It features MP3, WMA and WAV playback, a 2.2in LCD greyscale screen and a music management programme that enables users to delete, rename, copy and move files, and create folders directly on the device. Compatible with PCs and Macs, it should retail for around &#163;200.www.archos.comColour meIt isn't only hard disk players such as the iPod Photo and the iRiver H340 that have colour screens. They are turning up on Flash-based music devices such as the SR-M800 from Safa. In addition to its 65k colour LCD screen, the player has MP3, WMA and Ogg playback, an FM tuner, and can record from the radio directly on to the Flash memory. The player has an address book, text viewer and can show JPeg images on the colour screen. The 512MB version is on sale now for around &#163;160.www.advancedmp3players.co.uk&#183;Hardware(Solar) power it upIf your iPod constantly runs out of battery, Disruptive Technology may have the answer. It has just launched the Solio, a &#163;50 solar-powered recharger compatible with the third, fourth and mini versions of the ubiquitous Apple music player. The pocketable device opens up to reveal a trio of solar panels that, after a full charge, can keep an iPod running for nine hours. The Solio will also work with products such as mobile phones and GameBoys, though buyers will need adapters.tinyurl.com/3lcrnComeback kidDixons might not want to sell VHS VCRs, but JVC believes there is plenty of demand for the format. It has just unveiled the DR-MX1, the first video to offer hard disk, DVD and VHS recording in one unit. Dubbed the Triple Play, the MX1 features a 160GB hard disk, a DVD recorder compatible with DVD-RAM, DVD-RW and DVD-R formats, as well as VHS tape   record and playback. Owners can record programmes on to the hard disk, which can be archived on DVD or VHS. As the unit has two analogue TV tuners, it is possible to record two programmes simultaneously, one on the hard disk and the other on VHS. The DR-MX1 is available for around &#163;600.www.jvc.co.ukFreedWith such rivals as Sony and Samsung, it should come as no surprise that Philips is to return to the PC market. Developed with retailer PC World, the Freeline range of four desktops and two laptops are entertainment computers designed to work seamlessly with Philips's range of Streamium wireless hi-fi and video streaming devices. The Microsoft Windows XP PCs are accompanied by Philips peripherals such as LCD monitors DVD+RW recorder drives and multimedia audio speakers. They go on sale shortly.www.pcworld.co.uk&#183;InternetDo yourself a favourIf you haven't filed your tax return, you have until midnight on January 31 if you do it online. You can use the Inland Revenue's site (more than 586,000 have) or software such as TaxCalc (www.taxcalc.com). TaxCalc (PCs only) is friendlier than it used to be but still needs familiarisation. It guides you through the stages, with reminders of lines not filled in, and an automatic audit at the end. This reviewer got a rebate of over &#163;1,000, which offset weeks of unsuccessful attempts to dispatch it. The reason? You must type your ID letter by letter and not use cut and paste.
A while ago Ispoke to Jon Hare, founder of cult Amiga developer, Sensible Software, about his plans to convert Sensible Soccer to Java handsets. He said he wanted to make the best mobile footie game yet – and judging by the code I've been playing over the last couple of days he's achieved it...Sensi fans will immediately recognise the visuals – a top-down view of the pitch, and teeny, stylised players. They'll also recognise the range of custom play modes taking in both cup and league options. There's a huge range of international sides but no player names, instead each of your men is referred to by their particular skill: poacher, winger, anchorman, striker, etc. Any of these can be exchanged for differently-skilled subs, and you can fiddle with the formation to crudely craft defensive or attacking set-ups.All well and good, but it's the match engine that really impresses. The passing play is relatively smooth, while heading and tackling are brilliantly effective so you can easily break down attacks by leaping in with a well-timed nod or sliding through the opposition striker with sickening force. It's great to be able to intercept lofted passes, neatly knocking the ball forward for a bit of a counter attack – never before has a mobile title offered such glimpses of modern sim sophistication. Most impressive is the fact that Jon and his team at Tower Studios have managed to tease diagonal movement out of the Nokia 6600 'joystick' controller, so you don't have to resort to the keypad as in all other mobile football titles. It's an absolute revelation, at last making handheld footie an intuitive proposition.Next up, a conversion of fab point n' click shooter Cannon Fodder. I genuinely can't wait.Sensible Soccer is published byKuju Wirelessand should be on a major network portal near you soon.
Microsoft paid $20m (£10.6m) to one of its fiercest critics, the Computer and Communications Industry Association, after the group dropped out of an EU anti-trust case against the software giant, it emerged today.The CCIA abruptly withdrew from the EU's legal battle with Microsoft two weeks ago. The European commission fined Microsoft a record &euro;497m (£345m) in March for abusing its dominant position and ordered the company to sell a version of its Windows operating system without its Media Player audiovisual software. Microsoft has appealed against the ruling.In addition to the CCIA, Novell, a software rival to Microsoft, also settled its dispute with Microsoft. Novell received $536m (£285m) from the software giant. The CCIA and Novell are the latest parties to bury the hatchet with Microsoft in the EU antitrust case.Microsoft previously spent $2.4bn (£1.3bn) settling claims by Time Warner and Sun Microsystems. Although the amount paid to the CCIA is tiny compared to the other settlements, its significance lies in the fact that the CCIA has long been a thorn in the side of Microsoft.When the software giant was the subject of a landmark antitrust battle in the US, the CCIA provided much of the intellectual ammunition against the software giant. The CCIA's president, Ed Black, was also a vocal critic of Bill Gates in the media, often appearing on television and radio to attack Microsoft.Of the $20m Microsoft paid to the CCIA, Mr Black received $9.7m, reports said today. The CCIA payment was "a reimbursement for certain legal and related expenditures that it had incurred," Microsoft said, adding that the money was for the CCIA as a whole and that it had no idea how it would be allocated.The sole remaining company opposing Microsoft before the EU is RealNetworks , maker of rival audiovisual software Real Player. David Stewart, a senior lawyer with RealNetworks, told Dow Jones Newswires that it and other companies "remain resolved to support the (EU) decision and protect consumers."The judge hearing Microsoft's appeal against the commission's ruling has called for a closed meeting tomorrow to consider the impact of the latest defections.The meeting will include not only the current parties to the case but also those who have dropped out. Judge Bo Vesterdorf, who is handling the appeal, wants to know how to handle confidential and other documents offered by the parties who have withdrawn and how to handle their views now.The EU insisted that its case remained intact, amid speculation that it was unravelling,"Just the fact that certain parties have withdrawn from the proceedings doesn't change the facts of the case at all," Jonathan Todd, the EU antitrust spokesman, told the Associated Press. "Hence the proceedings will follow their normal course at the court."
"Curtis Sathre said it was like a bomb going off. His 13-year-old son Michael stood stunned, ears ringing, hand gushing blood after his cell phone exploded. Safety officials have received 83 reports of cell phones exploding or catching fire in the past two years, usually because of bad batteries or chargers," reportsAP."Burns to the face, neck, leg and hip are among the dozens of injury reports the Consumer Product Safety Commission has received. The agency is providing tips for cell phone users to avoid such accidents and has stepped up oversight of the wireless industry. There have been three voluntary battery recalls, and the CPSC is working with companies to create better battery standards."
"Internet pornography is the new crack cocaine, leading to addiction, misogyny, pedophilia, boob jobs and erectile dysfunction, according to clinicians and researchers testifying before a Senate committee Thursday. Witnesses before the Senate Commerce Committee's Science, Technology and Space Subcommittee spared no superlative in their description of the negative effects of pornography," reportsWired News.Mary Anne Layden, co-director of the Sexual Trauma and Psychopathology Program at the University of Pennsylvania's Center for Cognitive Therapy, called porn the "most concerning thing to psychological health that I know of existing today.""The internet is a perfect drug delivery system because you are anonymous, aroused and have role models for these behaviors," Layden said. "To have drug pumped into your house 24/7, free, and children know how to use it better than grown-ups know how to use it -- it's a perfect delivery system if we want to have a whole generation of young addicts who will never have the drug out of their mind."
TheLos Angeles Timeshas reported on a list of "the 10 most violent video games" compiled by a coalition of "concerned citizens", made up of members of the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility and Mothers Against Violence In America. The list, while featuring the usual suspects from the past year, also includes titles such as Mortal Kombat, Postal and Shadow Hearts. Interesting to note, as the Los Angeles Times reported,"When asked, none of the organizations' representatives said they had played the games on their list."What right do these people have, then, to skew public opinion about the general content of computer games?The group's primary concern is that the industry rating system - that bit which says a game is inappropriate for people under 18 - is misunderstood by parents. Really, how hard is it to understand?In this country, the body responsible for rating content isELSPAand at the Media Meets Gaming event on Monday Director General Roger Bennett recognised this parental ignorance. In fact, ELSPA plans on running a campaign in the New Year to educate concerned (and confused) individuals about what the "18" on the front of the game box means. In lay terms, it means games for adults who would otherwise be watching The Sopranos. With a reported 50% of the consumer public over the age of 18, why shouldn't the games industry make products that appeal to this huge market?It would be nice if the LA Times or other news sources would print something celebrating the games that are both appropriate for an under-18 age group, and are good for them as well. Maybe something on theireducational value. Even a contravening argument discussing government funding of research into games for the classroom would be appropriate. Still, no bananas. We'll just have to make up our own list from the commercial products which found their ways onto our consoles in 2004.I'll start you off. In the meantime, don't forget to vote for your top games (over or under 18) of 2004here.Great games for everyone (and what they teach us)Fable(XBox) - every action has a consequence, from the physical to the socialAnimal Crossing(Nintendo) - another inherently social game, it encourages exploration and real-life interactionPrince of Persia: Sands of Time(multi-format) - creative problem solving and lateral thinking in finest formSingStar(PlayStation 2) - nothing but pure, unadulterated fun with a little bit of skill thrown in
"Linus Torvalds and two other European software luminaries have thrown their weight behind a campaign to block software patents from being legitimized in Europe, ahead of a critical European Competitiveness Council decision later this week,"reportseWeek."Software patents are dangerous to the economy at large, and particularly to the European economy," Torvalds, Widenius and Lerdorf stated. "Lawmakers should heed the warnings of such reputable organizations as Deutsche Bank Research, the Kiel Institute for World Economics, and PricewaterhouseCoopers. A software patent regime would establish the law of the strong, and ultimately create more injustice than justice."
The value of internet sales more than doubled last year to just under &#163;40bn, equivalent to Britain's entire defence budget, figures out yesterday showed.The Office for National Statistics reported that e-commerce sales rose to &#163;39.5bn in 2003, the latest year for which data is available, from &#163;19bn the year before.Within that, the value of sales over the internet to households rose to &#163;11.4bn from &#163;6.4bn the year before.E-retailing umbrella group IMRG said it would release figures next week estimating that internet sales to shoppers would rise to around &#163;15bn this year from &#163;11bn in 2003, an increase of about 40%. Mail consignments related to internet shopping will be around 400m this year, or more than eight for every man, woman and child.The ONS said the rise in the value of e-commerce was across all kinds of information technology, across all sectors of the economy and by businesses of all sizes. The survey covered 10,000 firms of all shapes and sizes.While sales over the internet totalled &#163;39.5bn, other forms of IT sales, including email, automated phone sales and electronic data interchange, rose 15% to &#163;195.6bn, or nearly one fifth the value of the entire British economy.Of every &#163;100 spent over the internet, over two-thirds went on physical products as opposed to software or music or other business services.Britons now order a growing number of goods and services on the web, including all kinds of goods, holidays, and music through legal download sites such as Apple's i-Tunes.The data showed that the main users of e-commerce were the manufacturing, wholesale, retail, catering and travel sectors."Things have been a bit slower this year because firms had spent a lot on upgrading software for Y2K and so had slowed down in the past couple of years. But there is a major surprise coming. There is going to be a big pick-up next year as companies have invested in new technology," said spokesman James Roper. IMRG is predicting that internet shopping will account for a third of all retailing shopping within a decade, up from around 6% now."Internet sales are growing between five and eight times faster than high street sales every year," said Mr Roper.A growing number of websites offer price comparisons for goods and allow shoppers to hunt out bargains while shoppers appear to have overcome their reluctance to use credit cards online to pay for goods.The major supermarkets all now have rapidly growing online businesses where people can choose fill their shopping basket online and have it delivered to their door.A recent IMRG survey ranked the best e-retailers as Amazon.co.uk, followed by Tesco.com with figleaves.com in third place. Argos, Ocado and John Lewis's websites were also in the top ten.IMRG calculates that there are now 16m internet shoppers in Britain with women accounting for 56% and men for 44% of the total. Clothing is currently the fastest growing shopping category on the web with sales up around fivefold in three years.
Failure to prepare means preparing to fail, as your teacher used to say. Or, in the case of buying a used car, preparing to drive off with what could be a decidedly dodgy motor.Of course, people buy and sell cars every day of the year and only a minority of buyers find themselves with a dud. But, whether you are planning to buy from a private seller or a dealer, doing your research and arriving armed with the right questions could help make sure you don't.According to Phil Hale of the RAC, if you have a particular make and model of car in mind, find out as much as you can about it. Research the sort of price you should expect to pay by taking a look at theParker's Price Guide, and, says Mr Hale: "Read up about any common faults that type of car might have - every car has certain problems it will be prone to."Pick a few cars, in the same make and model, to take a look at so that you can compare like against like. "If you test-drive a second-hand Ford Fiesta that looks all shiny, but it pulls to the left, you might think that's normal. But if you also try out three or four other cars then you'll be able to tell that there is, in fact, something wrong with the steering," says Mr Bosdet.If you're clueless about what goes on under the bonnet, or only have a rough idea, then take someone with you who's a little more competent. Mr Hale says: "One in four of the cars we inspect have faults that either make them dangerous or illegal. It might be something as simple as a blown headlight bulb but you could certainly be fined for it if you drove off with a fault like that.If you can, take a qualified mechanic, or get a professional vehicle inspection done, advises Mr Hale. The RAC offers vehicle inspections at between £100 and £300 a pop, depending on the size of the engine, so if you're only spending a small amount on the car it might be worth finding a friend who knows what they're doing instead. If there is a fault, then you, or your friendly expert, can ask the dealer to get it repaired. They might fix it, or they might offer to lower the price. They could, of course, send you packing instead.Whether you're buying from a dealer or a bloke down the road, check over the paperwork that comes with the car very carefully. Make sure the MOT is up to date, or if it isn't that this is reflected in the price, look out for a full service history, or documentation that shows the car's provenance, Check that the vehicle registration details carry the DVLA watermark and make sure there are no spelling mistakes or alterations.You can check out the car's history by paying for an HPI vehicle check. A check costs around £40 and can be arranged online athpicheck.comor by telephone (01722 422422). This traces the car's past to check whether it has been tampered with, stolen, is an insurance write-off or was bought on hire purchase and never paid for in full, or, as HPI puts it, "clocked, nicked, knackered or on the never never".Buying from a private seller is risky, but that's where the bargains are. Essentially, if you follow up a small ad, you are responsible for making sure that the car is worth the money you pay. If it all goes wrong, realistically there is little you can do. "It's a case of sold as seen," says Luke Bosdet of the AA. "If you drive off and the car breaks down on your way home, you're stuffed."Unless, that is, you can prove that the vehicle was "misrepresented." If the seller lied in the advertising, then you may be able to prove you were misled, so keep hold of the ad from the paper - if it says the car has a full service history but it doesn't, or is in excellent condition but it's not, then you may be in a slightly stronger position. But you can't just complain if you discover a fault later on - it was down to you to spot it in the first place.The trouble is, people seem to throw caution to the wind when buying a used car. Common sense becomes a silly waste of time. "I think people just want to get it over and done with. We get complaints from people who have bought cars in a lay-by somewhere and then are surprised that the seller has disappeared when something goes wrong," says Mr Bosdet.If you're buying from a dealer off a forecourt then you are better protected should you find yourself on a hard shoulder with smoke puffing from beneath the bonnet three weeks later. There will often be a warranty on offer, and depending on the dealer this will either be included in the price or as an added extra. This can sound very reassuring, and may well come in handy.But a warranty is just a form of insurance, and there is a huge variety of levels of cover available. Some schemes have almost much protection as if you were buying a new car, while others are so restricted that it can be virtually impossible to make a claim.Before you pay up, find out exactly what is and isn't covered. "You might drive off, find the windscreen wipers aren't working and then find out that's not covered by your warranty," says Mr Hale. It's an obvious point, but don't forget to read the small print.Amendments to the Sale and Supply of Goods Act 1979 mean that, in theory at least, the buyer is in a slightly stronger position. If there is a fault with the car, the onus is now on the dealer to prove that it was of "satisfactory quality", "as described" and "fit for purpose" when you bought it.The trouble is, in practice it's all a bit vague. How protected you are depends on what you've spent and what you've bought. For example, you can't expect the same satisfactory quality from a 15-year-old £500 hatchback as from a two-year old good-as-new SUV. And "fit for purpose" could just mean that it is capable of getting you down the road, not across Europe. Oh, and the rules don't apply to private sellers. So, really, it's easier all round if you just make sure you choose carefully in the first place.
TheEntertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Associationhosted a seminar all day yesterday calledMedia Meets Gamingwhich brought together broadcast executives and high-end games professionals in order to mutually understand whether the twain can ever successfully meet, on games industry terms.Certainly the games execs seemed to think that a relationship was an elemental ingredient in the recipe towards mass market appeal, yet the TV folks brought a bit of doom and gloom to the proceedings, highlighting the indifference many commissioners feel towards the interactive medium. While not addressing some of the fundamental issues which plague and hinder computer gamesmarketing, there were a few interesting points raised by the speakers. One of the major take-home ideas was the importance of games industry Stars.Of course, by Stars they didn't mean extraneous folks who make their names on the periphery of the industry, reviewing, commentating and pontificating, they implied that these individuals should come fromwithin, hewn from the same fabric as the games themselves.While a Lara Croft and a Mario are as good for the younger generations as Mickey is useful for Disney, grown ups, argued Sean Dromgoole fromSome Research, need a real-life individual who would symbiotically interact with them through the forces of the media. However, as Dromgoole pointed out, many of these (often) blokes who are the creative forces behind incredible game worlds got into gaming because they enjoyed the company of, well, themselves.Would a brash and bright personality bring more people to games? It's hard to imagine Heat magazine covering the wayward antics ofPeter Molyneux, creator of Black and White and the Populous series, or even industry legendShigeru Miyamoto. Is this the best way to attract more people, or should makers continue to create compelling narrative, deep emotional involvement, and applications beyond the console?
Shares in Apple Computer yesterday climbed as much as 16% after the continued success of the iPod digital music player prompted a Wall Street analyst to almost double his price target for the stock.Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray, said the popularity of the iPod was beginning to feed back into Apple's traditional computer business.A survey of 200 iPod users in the United States found that 6% were formerly PC users who had bought an Apple Macintosh computer since owning the music player. Another 7% said they planned to buy a Macintosh.Mr Munster said he had taken a conservative stance and assumed only a 6.5% increase in Macintosh sales to determine his share price target. Still, he raised his 12-month forecast from $52 to $100.Another analyst, Fulcrum Global Partners' Robert Cihra, also raised his target, albeit more modestly from $53 to $65.Early in yesterday's trading session, the shares rose as high as $64. They retreated a little by midday but were still 12% up on the previous session's close at $61.78. The share price is at its highest level since September 2000.Since Apple first introduced the iPod in October 2001, the company has sold 6m of the handheld devices. A large chunk of those sales, however, have been in the past 12 months as the technology catches on among mainstream users.Even though iPod software can be run on Microsoft Windows, Mr Munster said in a research note that users' affection for their iPods was creating a "halo effect" for Apple. "We believe that the remarkable satisfaction with the iPod creates a word-of-mouth wildfire that generates new customer interest in Apple's products," he said.Other analysts noted that the sample used in the Piper Jaffray note was relatively small. "One study isn't enough to draw a conclusion," said Roger Kay, an analyst at research firm IDC.Apple's iTunes online music store has sold more than 150m songs at 99 cents apiece. Steve Jobs, the Apple chief executive, estimates that 70% of legal music downloading in both the US and Britain is done through iTunes.In the most recent quarter iPod sales generated $537m, nearly a quarter of the entire group's revenues.
A new computer game which allows players to recreate the assassination of John F Kennedy has been condemned as "despicable" by the former US president's family.In JFK: Reloaded, players take the role of Lee Harvey Oswald and fire at President Kennedy's motorcade. The player who most accurately recreates Oswald's three fatal shots will win a $100,000 (&#163;54,000) competition.The game was released to download on the internet yesterday to coincide with the 41st anniversary of JFK's assassination in Dallas. Its creators, software company Traffic, claim it will help dispel the conspiracy theories which surround JFK's death.But David Smith, a spokesman for President Kennedy's brother Edward, questioned the taste of allowing game players to murder the American president."It's despicable. There really is no further comment," he said.
A &#163;6bn investment in computer systems for the NHS was in danger of foundering last night after doctors' leaders said it would put patient confidentiality at risk.The British Medical Association told GPs to exercise caution before joining trials of the Choose and Book electronic appointments system, which is designed to give patients more control over the time and place of hospital treatment.The BMA said the software developed by the NHS computer procurement offshoot, the National Programme for IT (NPfIT), did not allow a booking to be made without giving the hospital electronic access to the patient's GP computer record, which it would automatically download.The BMA is boycotting the Care Records Service, another part of the investment programme designed to create a national database of 50 million patients' personal details.Doctors' leaders were concerned that the information was insecure and Choose and Book might become a back-door route to collecting it.The advice is likely to discourage doctors from joining the scheme which Tony Blair has identified as one of his top priorities for the NHS.The prime minister was expected to use Choose and Book in support of his argument at the general election that the NHS was no longer a nationalised industry serving the interests of the medical profession, but a modern service industry responding to its customers' preferences.Under the scheme, GPs   would offer patients a choice of four or five hospitals at which they could get an outpatient appointment. The GP could then make a firm booking electronically.Ministers expected the system to be operating throughout England by the end of next year.The BMA's concerns were included in a guidance note, disclosed today by the magazine Computer Weekly.The note said: "We are extremely concerned that there are a number of unresolved issues relating to Choose and Book which could jeopardise the confidentiality and security of patient records. We are also concerned about the workload and resource implications."It reminded doctors the operating system was not a contractual obligation and   practices could decline to be involved.Laurence Buckman, the deputy chairman of the BMA's GPs' committee, said: "We welcome the opportunity for patients to be more involved in their care, but we are very concerned about the workload implications, confidentiality and resource implications of Choose and Book." He said the BMA was willing to work with the Department of Health to iron out difficulties.An NPfIT spokesman said: "Extensive consultation has taken place with frontline clinicians to ensure that Choose and Book supports current working patterns and practices among doctors ... Those GPs involved so far are positive about the benefits for patients, and satisfied with the measures put in place to ensure confidentiality and security."
...at least according to new research by Phoenix Marketing International. In a recently released study entitled Consumer Buying Intentions, the company reports that a sizeable majority of videogame fans are still regular users of the PlayStion, N64 and SNES consoles. Read morehere.This could mean one of three things:Great games are truly timeless.For all their graphical grunt, PS2 and Xbox have come up with few adventures more compelling than Secret of Mana, few stealth shoot-'em-ups as demanding and perfectly realised as GoldenEye. Brilliant design transcends dated visuals.Gamers are hopeless nostalgics.Like the records we listened to as teenagers, perhaps our first experiences with games remain with us, taking us back to those troubled but vibrant years. Maybe for some gamers, Street Fighter 2 Turbo is their Anarachy in the UK, their Smells Like Teen Spirit.A third of gamers just never upgraded.Perhaps they didn't get round to it, perhaps they see the original PlayStation as the gaming equivalent of a Hoover - why buy a new model while the old one still works? Also, it's entirely possible that there are people out there who only ever play Dance:UK. Scary, but possible.
Were flames ever to engulf our home, I could guarantee that, after the child and the greyhound, the next item to be ferried to safety would be the Sky Plus hard disk video recorder.Before you accuse me of being a techno-crazed, video watching junkie, let me say that I would actually be making a mad dash for my collection of Arsenal programmes. My wife would be yanking out the cables and trying to pull the box from under the TV.From the day Sky Plus - with its easy to use programming system (if you haven't tried  to use it, you won't believe how simple it is to make a timed recording) and pause live TV option - arrived in our home, she has become addicted.The VHS video recorder is still hanging on in there, if only to play a selection of those dreadful Barney videos for our toddler - we can't seem to find the equivalent on DVD. Personally, I can't think of a more fitting way for it to end its days.So we're not shedding any tears over today's news that Dixons is to phase out selling any more VHS video recorders.I don't actually believe what the store is saying. It needs to push people into buying digital video recorders (DVD recorders and those that record on to a hard disk) and, to achieve this, it needs to convince punters that the VHS VCR that has served them for decades is about relevant to 2004 as Hear'Say. What better way to do this than by creating a bit of furore in the press?Come next Christmas, I think you will still be able to find products such as the JVC DR-MX1, which features a hard disk and a DVD recorder as well as a VHS video recorder in the same box.But the writing is clearly on the wall for the VHS VCR. Even if retailers still wanted to sell them, there are apparently only around three or four companies in the world actually still making them. Soon, they will be rubbing electronic shoulders with the BSB Squarial and the Psion organiser in that great techno heaven in the sky.So will I miss our VCR when it finally gets the boot? Probably not. Like anyone of  my generation, I am perfectly capable of getting wistful about the first time I saw a pirate movie (for some bizarre reason, for most of us it was almost always ET) on a friend's Betamax video.Yet I also remember the hours I wasted trying to get my head round impenetrable timer  programming systems, and the times I returned home to find the machine had recorded the EastEnders omnibus instead of the football are etched in my memory.Besides, the VHS sound and picture quality were always rubbish. Once any sane person had seen a DVD, they weren't going to put up with crinkly images and snow-filled screens any  more.Another thing I always hated about VHS tapes is that they were so huge. Ikea bosses must be crying into their Swedish vodka today, knowing that the nation's living rooms will soon no longer require their enormous storage cupboards to house all those videos.In  all fairness, it is amazing that the VHS VCR has managed to cling on for as long as three decades. Your iPod and PC are already working to ensure the CD doesn't receive a 30th birthday card, and as for your DVD player - well, the chances are that you'll be pensioning that off within a few years, too.So succumb to the inevitable this Christmas, and go and get yourself a Sky Plus box (or a Digifusion FVRT 100 if you want Freeview and don't want to pay a subscription  to the Murdoch clan). Both will pull in digital TV channels, and both make it very  simple to set up and store timed recordings on to their hard disks.If you want to store programmes permanently, consider buying a hard disk recorder that also features an inbuilt DVD recorder. The really adventurous might even want to check out a Microsoft Media Center PC, which also has both a hard disk and a DVD  video recorder.You might have to relocate an ageing VHS machine from under your TV to make space - but, trust me, you really won't miss it.
A controversial new British-made computer "docu-game" recreating the assassination of John F Kennedy has been described as "despicable" by aides to the late president's brother.Stirling-based firm Traffic Management, which launchedJFK: Reloaded41 years after the president's death in Dallas, Texas, on November 22 1963, is offering up to £53,800 to the first person to most accurately recreate the three shots fired by Lee Harvey Oswald.The game - which can be downloaded from the web - recreates JFK's last moments. According to Traffic, it challenges players to help disprove any conspiracy theory by recreating the shots fired from the sixth floor of the Dallas book repository.David Smith, a spokesman for Edward Kennedy, told the Associated Press that the Massachusetts senator's office had begun receiving calls about the game on Friday. "It's despicable. There's really no further comment," he said.He would not say whether the family was taking any action to halt the game's release.Traffic said it was aware of the passion surrounding the death of "one of America's greatest heroes" and was determined to promote the game, which is priced at £5.35, respectfully.The company's managing director, Kirk Ewing, said the product would "bring history to life" and stimulate a younger generation of players to take an interest in a fascinating episode in US history."We genuinely believe that, if we get enough people participating, we'll be able to disprove, once and for all, any notion that someone else was involved in the assassination of President Kennedy," he said."The computer ballistics model says it's possible, but players will discover just how hard it is to place those three bullets in exactly the same way that Oswald did."A 10-man team took seven months to research and six months to programme the recreation of the surroundings and events of November 22 as specified in the Warren commission report.
Google has already transformed the way the web is used. Now the company behind the internet's leading search engine aims to change the academic world too, with a new search tool putting a treasure trove of scholarly writing within the reach of everyday users.Following moves to make scientific research freely available, Google Scholar allows any internet user to search for keywords in theses, books, technical reports, university websites and even traditional academic publications.The free system, which is being run initially in test form and can be seen atwww.scholar.google.comspans the academic disciplines from medicine and physics to economics and computer science.As well as improving access to research for students and professionals, Google Scholar offers a chance for the general public to get better access to scientific data.A Google Scholar search for articles relating to a supposed link between the MMR jab and autism, for instance, produced up to date research from several reputable sources.Rather than ranking results by the number of "hits" or visits they have received, Google Scholar ranks results in order of relevance, which includes the number of times the research itself has been cited by other academics."Google tends to be quite useful but the way it displays hits means you get the hits that are most widely accessed," said Mike Joy, senior lecturer in computer science at the University of Warwick. "In an academic context, that's not what you want."Trying the new search engine for the first time, Dr Joy was impressed. "My first impression is that it looks quite effective. It's pulled out papers I've written almost immediately."   Requests for relatively obscure information also yielded intelligible results. "It doesn't seem to be producing random stuff that you normally get."The new tool comes as a debate rages within the publishing world over so-called open access to scientific research. In July, a committee of MPs warned of "mounting concern that financial benefits from the government's substantial investment in research are being diverted to an excessive degree into the pockets of publishers' shareholders."The Commons science and technology committee recommended that results of publicly funded scientific research carried out in Britain should be made freely available to everyone over the internet.It called for experimentation with a new model, known as open access publishing, where the author pays for publication but the resulting article is freely available over the web.It also called for academics to be allowed to place copies of articles already published in subscription journals on their own website or in an online repository run by their university - a process known as author self-archiving.While the government rejected the committee's findings earlier this month, publishers such as Reed Elsevier have changed copyright rules to allow their authors to archive their own work.But until now searching for these articles has been a complex process for the general public. Google Scholar presented a significant step forward for the open access movement, said Jan Velterop, of the open access publisher BioMed Central."We are very pleased Google have taken this step. This will really increase the access to and visibility of research deposited in repositories - it's a huge boost to the drive to provide open access to research," he added.Mars shines but Hamlet is out of the questionThe Guardian tested Google Scholar by searching under five headings: "The Battle of Hastings", "To be or not to be", "Eminem", "Life on Mars", and "The structure of DNA". The idea was to find out whether it would be useful to non-specialists as well as experts.The Battle of HastingsType in the name of the most famous battle in English history and the top item turns out to be details of Max Hastings' book The Battle for the Falklands.The first 40 or so hits yield little solid information about William the Conqueror, King Harold and so on, just passing references in academic papers on language, landscapes and even astronomy.A promising reference around result 60 turns out to be no more than a list of history books on the University of Oxford's website.Adding "1066" at least throws up a lecture schedule for medieval studies at Manchester Metropolitan University and some relevant books. But no papers that say much more than "The date of the Battle of Hastings is 1066" (On Language and the Passage of Time, Western Washington University).Some of the best information is to be found in the promotional booklet Short Breaks and Holidays in Battle, Bexhill. William the Conqueror appears to be being airbrushed from history.Marks: 4/10"To be or not to be"Students of English literature hoping to impress their tutors with a little extra insight into Hamlet's speech will be disappointed.The problem seems to be that just too many scholars have pinched the quote for their scientific papers.If you want to know about subjects ranging from binge eating to bone marrow, from family houses in Ghanaian cities to the politics of Quebec, bang in the opening lines of the soliloquy.The play does not even get a mention until the result 74, and even then it is in a paper on internet domain names.Even adding "+ Hamlet" to   the search does not help. As for learning more about Ophelia, let alone Rosencrantz and Guildenstern ...Marks: 3/10Structure of DNAPerhaps unsurprisingly, Google Scholar performs much better on scientific subjects. Searches for nuclear fission, seabed visualisation, and neutrino oscillation yielded reams of relevant information.Many of the top results seem to come from the same site, the National Library of Medicine in the US. Perhaps because the tool is still at the testing stage, the ability to remove a particular website from the search, as can be done in Google, has not been incorporated.Marks: 7/10Life on MarsPlenty here for a student of astronomy as well as the expert: everything you could wish to know about the Viking missions to Mars, about strategies being developed for future visits to the red planet, about what sort of unmanned vehicles best negotiate its terrain.Try searching for life on Mars on many other engines and you will find the views of the conspiracy theorists and   extraterrestrial kooks mixed in with the science. Google Scholar's selection feels much more weighty.Marks: 8/10EminemThe Detroit rapper has a paltry 212 references on the site (compared with 4,000 for Whitney Houston), starting with the Rolling Stone and The Nation, and a review of his film 8Mile.But delve deeper and there some interesting papers, on racial politics in pop music, and the portrayal of violence against women in rap music, although most only mention the rapper in passing. A paper on rap music and poetry specifically focusing on Eminem from a US university can be read in full.Marks: 5/10Faisal al Yafai and Steven Morris
The technology that created the concept of staying in to watch a video has had its day. RIP VCR.Dixons announced yesterday that it will be phasing out video cassette recorders in favour of the DVD player, which now sells for as little as &#163;25. Britain's largest electrical retailer said demand for VCRs had been falling dramatically since the middle of the 1990s and that DVDs were now outselling VCRs by a ratio of 40 to one.The company plans to sell the rest of its stock by Christmas.John Mewett, marketing director at Dixons, paid tribute to the VCR. He said: "We're saying goodbye to one of the most important products in the history of consumer technology. The video recorder has been with us for a generation and many of us have grown up with the joys and the occasional frustrations of tape-based recording."He added: "We are now entering the digital age and the new DVD technology available represents a step change in picture quality and convenience."The VCR was first developed by Philips in the early 1970s but was expensive and never took off. A decade later, Sony's Betamax and JVC's VHS were battling it out for market dominance, with VHS becoming the market leader. VCR sales peaked in the Britain in 1993 and by 2002, almost 90% of households owned at least one.The VCR has had a good run for almost 25 years, compared with other pieces of technology that never managed to capture the public's imagination, such as laserdiscs (too big and difficult to record on) and minidiscs (cool but quickly superseded by MP3 players).While the market for DVDs is estimated to be around &#163;750m in Britain alone, the technology, officially born in 1995, now also faces stiff competition from hard-disk drive recorders, which can store more than 400 hours of television.
Internet search giant Google has appointed a new European chief as it gears up to further expand its overseas operations and prepares for an impending battle with Microsoft for market share.Nikesh Aurora, who quit as chief marketing officer at mobile phone giant T-Mobile earlier this year, has been handed the new title of vice-president of European operations at the company.He will join Google next month and is charged with  expanding the company's European operations.Following a successful flotation in the US in August that has seen its share price double in the months since, Google is gearing up to expand into new areas and take on the increasing threat to its core search business from rivals including Microsoft and Yahoo!."The leadership and experience that Nikesh Arora brings to Google will be an invaluable asset to Google's growing European business", said Omid Kordestani, the senior vice-president of Google's worldwide sales and field operations."Nikesh's proven track record of leading high performance teams and driving businesses make him the ideal candidate to take Google's European operations to the next phase of growth."Earlier this month Microsoft unveiled a trial version of its new search engine, which it has spent two years and hundreds of millions of dollars developing, in an effort to tap into the increasingly lucrative search advertising market.Yahoo! has also invested heavily in the sector in recent years, acquiring search technology company Inktomi and search advertising agency Overture.It emerged over the weekend that Google founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page stand to make around $1bn by selling off a tranche of their shares in the company, with other executives and venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins also looking to cash in.The pair, who launched Google from a California garage in 1998 after meeting as students at Stanford University, will still own 27% of the company between them following the selloff.In addition to its core search engine, which became the most popular in the world by virtue of its patented technology and loyal fanbase, Google is looking to expand into new areas.It recently unveiled its desktop search service, designed to make Google the means by which users navigate all the information on their computers.It also announced a UK version of its Froogle online price comparison service and recently launched a trial version of Google Scholar, a search service dedicated to academic research and theses.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
BT plans to launch its own service using new 3G technology next year as it pushes for &#163;1bn worth of revenues from mobile services within five years.On Friday BT, which demerged its mobile operation, mmO2, three years ago, officially started working with its new wireless network partner, Vodafone, and launched a   suite of products aimed at the corporate market. Steve Andrews, BT's head of mobility, said the deal opened the door to a number of new services being marketed by BT."Any of the services that are developed by Vodafone will be made available to BT," he said. "So you can expect to see us launching 3G within 2005."Its first use of the technology, which cost Vodafone &#163;7bn   in licenses and development in Britain, will be in laptop cards allowing business customers to access the internet at high speeds while on the move.BT intends to offer cards that can use 3G and existing wireless networks alongside wi-fi technology, which it has been installing in "hotspots" in places such as airports and cafes. BT also plans to trial a phone that can make calls over   the wi-fi network from hotspots and offices. But a full-scale launch is likely to be at least a year away because of a lack of handsets.The company will also trial the next generation of wi-fi technology, known as WiMax, next year as it seeks to increase the availability of high-speed internet access. But Mr Andrews said BT had yet to decide whether to offer a consumer 3G option. Vodafone has launched its 3G offering in the UK, while Orange and T-Mobile will also have handsets in stores for Christmas. MmO2 has decided to hold off until next year.BT's big consumer mobile launch in the spring is likely to be its long-awaited Bluephone, which uses Vodafone's network. It offers cheap calls from home and doubles as a mobile.
As a supplement to Greg's post, JFKReloaded has now attracted the derision of Edward Kennedy whose spokesman called the project 'dispicable' according to aReuters report.However, depsite his, and Greg's distaste, what we could be seeing is the emergence of a new genre, the docu-game.Indeed, this isn't the first title to be based around real-life news events. US company,Kuma Reality Games, has been producing interactive re-creations of real-world situations throughout this year, including several confrontations in Iraq and John Kerry's key missions in Vietnam. Also, the excellent blogWater Cooler Gamesis dedicated to tracking 'videogames with an agenda', and the writers clearly aren't short of material.Of course, it could be argued that creating any kind of interactive entertainment out of sensitive news issues is fundamentally tasteless and exploitative. On the other hand, could this be a natural progression of news reporting; a new method of communicating vital stories to an audience becoming increasingly less willing to accept the 'one-way traffic' of the traditional media?How long before news readers pause after reporting each key incident to say, 'and press your red buttons now to play a game based around this story'...
In this golden age for gaming it's sad to see something like this come along.JFKReloadedis a downloadable "docu-game" that challenges players to, "help disprove any conspiracy theory by recreating the three shots that Lee Harvey Oswald made from the infamous sixth floor of the Dallas book depository." Yes, that's right, the "game" challenges you to take pot-shots at the passing JFK. Tastelessness aside, this is bad news for the reputation of gaming as a whole. What do you reckon will get coverage in the Daily Mail et al? The majesty of Half Life 2 or the fact that a new "game" allows you to shoot out the brains of JFK.And get this. Apparently the "game" has educational benefits. "This new form of interactive entertainment brings history to life and will stimulate a younger generation of players to take an interest in this fascinating episode of American history," says Kirk Ewing, managing director of developers Traffic. "We've created the game in the belief that Oswald was the only person that fired the shots on that day, although this recreation proves how immensely difficult his task was" he continues, no doubt trying desperately to stop smirking.PR nonsense aside, what do you think? Tasteless rubbish or historical learning aid? Or, in fact, not even worth commenting on...
Another telecoms bigwig has proclaimed that 'cool' entertainment services can turn 3G into a 'high-volume, high-revenue industry'. This time it's Doug Rasor, Texas Instruments' Vice President and Manager for Worldwide Strategic Marketing, who explained during a recent keynote address at the 3G World Congress, that custom ring tones, 3D games, multi-megapixel cameras, video and digital TV would fuel the growth of 3G technology.Astoryon 3Gnewsroom continues:"Rasor explained that one of the core trends driving the multimedia experience is the convergence of the wireless and consumer electronics markets. 'We must miniaturize the living room entertainment experience in size, but not in performance,' Rasor said. '...We need to take the high-end electronics experience consumers have come to expect from their state-of-the-art digital cameras, camcorders, and game consoles, and integrate that experience into the cell phone. Meeting consumers' expectations for a secure, state-of-the-art mobile entertainment experience will be a strong step toward making trendy mobile features 'must-have,' revenue-generating services.'"Quite a compelling rallying cry for the industry. But my favourite part comes later, where Rasor is quoted as saying, "From the convergence of wireless and consumer electronics markets, we'll see tremendous innovation, much of which cannot be fathomed today".Translation: we're going to make money out of this, goddammit, we just have no idea how.
"I have come like a pilgrim to this modest Fort Lauderdale neighborhood, nestled conveniently between the flight path of a major airport and an Indian gaming casino, to witness a miracle — in marketing, if nothing else. I'm here to see the 10-year-old grilled cheese sandwich. The one with the bite taken out of it, and the toasty visage of what is purported to be the face of the mother of Jesus," reports Palm Beach Post Staff Columnist,Frank Cerabino.Following up the famouseBay auction, Cerabino finds a growing industry: "Copycat skilleteers abound: Bids are now being taken on grilled cheese sandwiches that bear the faces of Elvis, Joan Collins, and 'the Virgin Mary Kate and Ashley Olsen'. There's even a guy who claims to have cooked up a pork chop that looked like the pope — something he's calling 'the PopeChop'."Update:"The final bids are in and the winner is GoldenPalace.com, an on-line casino. They agreed to pay $28,000 for a 10 year-old partially eaten grilled cheese sandwich that a Hollywood, Florida women claims bears the image of the Virgin Mary. Bids had been higher, but 'sincere' bidders had to be separated from those who were viewing the bidding as a joke," reportsElites TV.
Moves against illegal online music-sharing, plus better quality material and a rise in legal downloading, is stabilising the global music market after four years of decline, EMI said yesterday.The world's third-largest music company, which has Joss Stone, Tina Turner and the Beastie Boys among its artists, said the global music market declined 1.3% over the six months to the end of September, compared with a 10% drop in the same period last year.EMI said a return to growth in the US, Japan and south-east Asia offset a flat performance in Britain and a continued decline in Germany.EMI further cheered investors by predicting that for this year as a whole the market would be down 4% or at best flat but with the possibility of modest growth in 2005.Eric Nicoli, the chairman, said recent judicial moves in the US against illegal online file-sharing are finally bearing fruit. "We are fairly sure about the impact in the US and Germany," he said.The company, which reported better than expected half-year results yesterday, is also seeing a dramatic rise in digital music downloads, both over the internet and to mobile phones. Downloading makes up about 2% of the world music market and that is expected to double next year.In the six months to the end of September, EMI made about &#163;18m from digital music - a fourfold rise on the previous year - including &#163;6.8m from ring-tones. The rest came from a mix of online sales - mainly through Apple's iTunes - and mobile phone downloads.EMI tracks from the likes of Good Charlotte and Coldplay are already available on Vodafone's new 3G service and the company is looking to make its entire catalogue available. It is experimenting with several digital formats - its new Robbie Williams album is available on a digital memory card sold by Carphone Warehouse.Alain Levy, the head of EMI Music, said it was also close to a deal with Snowcap, a legal music-sharing service set up by a founder of Napster."I am a big fan of legal peer-to-peer music-sharing. Sharing is part of consumer behaviour and we have to find a way to fulfil that demand," he said.EMI reported a worse than expected 11% drop in first half sales to &#163;851m but a less than feared fall in profits to &#163;36.9m from &#163;39.8m.
An internet fraudster has pleaded guilty to cheating 15,000 investors across 60 countries out of $58m (&#163;31m), prosecutors said yesterday. They described the scheme, the Tri-West Investment Club, as one of the largest online investment scams uncovered.Keith Nordick, 42, could face 30 years in prison after pleading guilty at a court in Sacramento, California, to mail and wire fraud plus conspiracy to commit money laundering. He may also be fined twice the amount of investors' losses. He will be sentenced in February.Charges have been filed against six people in the case. Three have already pleaded guilty.Investigations were coordinated in the US, Canada, Costa Rica, Mexico and Belize. The accused used the cash to buy luxurious properties in Costa Rica, Mexico and Latvia, as well as a yacht, helicopter and several cars, prosecutors said.The scheme ran from 1999 to September 2001, using a website to solicit investments promising guaranteed returns of 120% in a "bank debenture trading programme".According to the site, which has been closed, the investment was managed by Haarlem Universal Corporation "one of the largest and most prestigious trading companies in the world" with a 30-year history of generating high returns for investors.The company was not a registered investment company and has been in existence only since the scam began in 1999, the court heard.Alyn Richard Waage, described by prosecutors as Tri-West's "kingpin", and Michael Webb, the internet web designer, pleaded guilty last year, after being arrested in September 2001. Mr Waage's son Cary pleaded guilty in July and cooperated with authorities, bringing him a reduced prison sentence of just over four years.Mr Waage, a Canadian citizen, was extradited to the US from Mexico. He was arrested on suspicion of money laundering after entering Mexico with a suitcase containing $4.5m in cheques payable to Haarlem.
First it was vintage heavy-metal T-shirts, then came leg warmers and Lycra. Now old mobile phones have become the retro fashion accessory to be seen with.Twenty years after Britain's first mobile phone call was made, technology has leapt forward but hipsters and homebodies alike are rejecting flashy new models in favour of tried and trusted phone favourites.Retrofone, a new company hoping to cash in on the trend, believes many people are fed up with complicated modern handsets and want to stick with the "classic" late 1990s designs they are used to."Retro has always been fashionable to some extent. People are always looking backwards," said Olly Tagg, who started the company after he found success selling old handsets on the auction website eBay."When you use an old phone, you're making a statement: I'm not with the main crowd, I'm slightly different."Rather than suffering from mobile anxiety - embarrassment over the clunky look or large size of older handsets - a new generation of phone fanatics are using their antique handsets with pride."Most of these fashion things begin as an ironic flash in the pan and then end up being massive," says Kevin Braddock, contributing editor of men's style magazine GQ. "About five years ago phones stopped becoming a tool and became a way to express your personality. That means there is always going to be an appetite for phones that make you stand out."Although older handsets have a high kitsch value, many people prefer them because they are simpler to use and less expensive than new models.Environmentally-aware phone users are encouraged by the idea that it is greener to recycle mobiles than to discard them. With networks offering regular handset upgrades to subscribers, one study has estimated that more than 105m phones are thrown away each year in Europe alone.Not only could rescuing an old phone from the scrapheap crank up your cool factor, it could also save lives - a single mobile phone battery contains enough kidney-destroying cadmium to poison 600,000 litres of water."We actually contacted Oxfam about recycling," said Mr Tagg. "Now, every time we send a phone out, customers get a green bag so that they   can send back their old brick and recycle it."The oldest mobile Retrofone sells in bulk dates back to 1996, although earlier models are available to collectors and dedicated buyers.The most popular model is the Nokia 7110, hugely popular four years ago but now supplanted more advanced models. Its simplicity contrasts with the new third generation (3G) phones which are able to download music and film clips and make video calls.Model phonesNokia 7110Hugely popular when it came out four years ago, thanks to a large screen and spring-loaded key guardNokia 8110The "banana phone" sold by the bucketload by combining the key guard with the receiver, which attracted customers put off by more miniature modelsMotorola StarTacIts clamshell design has evolved but the StarTac is loved by those who enjoy its clunky lookEricsson T28Five years old, but popular with users who like its designSony Z5Half phone, half walkie-talkie, it remains a trend-setter
Grand Theft Auto AdvanceGame Boy AdvanceBefore Grand Theft Auto went 3D and began the serious business of ruling the world, it started life as a top-down 2D driving and shooting game. To capitalise on the deserved and runaway success of the console versions, Game Boy Advance owners can experience the reconstructed thrills of Old School Grand Theft Auto and find out why it was that the series didn't sell quite so well in those days. Bloody splats as you run over pedestrians, the satisfying thrum of the flamethrower and the twitchy handling of the old BF Injection will either bring a tear of nostalgia or make you pine for the byways of San Andreas - Game Boy GTA suffers from its cramped screen, reduced sense of humour and more limited missions. While not appalling, this won't distract you from Advance Wars 2 for long.NG&#183;Rockstar, £30Halo 2XboxHalo is the reason many Xbox owners bought one in the first place - three years on it's still the best single and multi-player shooter on any console, giving its sequel a crushing burden of expectation. Halo 2 comes with beefier plot, new enemies, the ability to use two guns at the same time, more vehicles, cathedral-like vistas and a wry sense of humour evident in the chatter of fellow marines who rarely repeat themselves. Singleplayer mode's weirdly truncated story, regular flickers in cut sequences and only 12-14 hours of play on Normal mode are infinitesimal blemishes next to the years of multiplayer joy in store, this time extended onto Xbox Live. It's the best party game ever invented.NG&#183;Microsoft, £40Halo 2: The Official GuideBookStrategy guides provide maps, tips, secrets and walkthroughs for fans of big budget games, and while some feel as if they were knocked out in a couple of days to cash in on a triple-A title, those published by Piggyback are quite clearly finely crafted labours of love. Their Halo 2 guide is no exception, with beautifully rendered maps, hints for single and multi-player modes and meticulously explained tactics for the game's trickier set-piece battles. Prudent gamers may wish to play some of the game before purchasing the guide (once in your hands there's an almost physical need to read it thoroughly) but as a companion to squeezing every last drop out of Halo 2, Piggyback is the S-Class Benz of game guides.NG&#183;Piggyback, £12.99
There is, it would seem, nothing better after a hard day at the office than returning home and telling the world how crap your job is. One of the first occupation blogs was Call Centre Confidential (http://callcentrediary.blogspot.com), whose page is headed "Welcome to my world of pain ". Working With Dead People (www.20six.co.uk/nextEntries/p19raswechux) is about a funeral director whose ambition is to hear someone slag off the deceased. Revealing all about your workplace does have its hazards though, the air hostess who writeshttp://queenofsky.journalspace.comwas fired last month for posting what her employer called "inappropriate photos ", actually just a picture of her reading a gossip magazine. Who needs work anyway? The life of a Student Bum (http://studentbum.blogdrive.com) seems much more appealing.
Tomorrow is the opening of Apple's new store on Regent Street, something the Guardian coveredthis morning.When you're reading about this orgy of consumerism, however, spare a thought forthis guywho is, rather insanely, camping outside the store after flying over from Texas especially to be there when it opens."At 2:00am, a crew from GMTV, a London breakfast news show, interviewed me along with Thomas (another American). Just asked the basic questions everyone does such as why am I here, is it worth being out in the cold for this, etc. I probably made myself look like a fool because I don't really know how to answer the darn questions in a way that makes sense."
According to last Saturday's paperGuardian, the GCHQ has released a "CD-ROM-based recruitment package" aimed at promoting the work of the most under-publicised UK government intelligence agency, the Government Communications Headquarters. The content is yet to be determined (my order is in process), but the blurb from theirwebsitesays that when it's installed in a trusty PC you'll be able to "take your place in the hot seat and - in a unique simulation - test your wits and judgement against an unfolding international crisis involving the smuggling of weapons and drugs, and the activities of a ruthless terrorist group." Enigma cracking here I come!Increasingly games are being discovered by established organisations as useful avenues through which to test, promote, recruit and train. Their compelling interactivity is being adopted by bodies as wide-ranging as the US Army,political parties,ChristianandIslamicgroups,Neo-Nazis, theHezbollah Central Internet Bureauand the liberal left. While arguably the first in the list hasalwaysrecognised the usefulness of simulation (from the first games to their modifications ofDoomto theirtakeoverof virtual worldThere.comto contemporary mass-market products likeAmerica's Army), the latter few are new additions to groups using interactive entertainment as propaganda.Admittedly these are niche titles, often accessed only via the internet. Few, if any, are available over the counter at your the local games emporium. However, this trend begs the questions, what role does propaganda play in this form of entertainment (in the beckoning era ofadvergamingand the questionable role ofadvertisers in games), and what political agendas are games involved with?
The next time you're sifting through the mortgage offers, cheap Rolex watches or dubious business proposals from Nigeria, spare a thought for Bill Gates. The Microsoft founder is the most spammed man in the world, with 4m emails arriving in his inbox each day.Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, told a conference in Singapore that being the world's best-known software billionaire has its down side: "Bill receives 4m pieces of email per day, most of it spam."The upside of the Microsoft founder's bulging inbox is that it appears to have focused his mind on the problem.Spam is regarded as perhaps the biggest threat to the internet, with some experts putting it as high as 80% of the world's online traffic.The company is working on a number of solutions, including software that replies automatically to email messages from users not known to that computer, and the idea of "postage" on emails. Microsoft is also working with internet firms AOL, Yahoo and EarthLink to verify the identity of the sender of an email message.A North Carolina man who raked in $24m (&#163;13m) from peddling junk products and pornography under a false name this month became the first felony conviction under under a United States anti-spam law, and faces up to nine years in prison.Unlike ordinary people though, Mr Gates doesn't get a sore finger from deleting unwanted missives. The company has a team of people dedicated to ensuring he only gets mail that he wants to read.
Those wishing to be the first to worship at London's latest temple of technology will doubtless be huddled in sleeping bags tonight outside the Apple Store in Regent Street.When the doors open at 10am tomorrow, these disciples will not be disappointed. The shop, with its acres of pale grey Italian stone flooring and soaring glass staircase, has all the scale and splendour of a modern cathedral.Apple's first European retail outlet looks remarkably like its antecedents in New York and Chicago, which opened in 2001, and in Tokyo, which launched almost exactly a year ago. The message is that cities change but Appleworld remains consistent and cool.When the Tokyo store opened, a mile-long queue snaked along the pavements of the Ginza throughout the first day. The first 500 customers were welcomed by staff, American style, with exuberant high fives and handshakes, and more than 7,000 customers had passed through the doors by closing time. In London the first 2,500 will receive commemorative T-shirts.A technology writer from Dublin was waiting in the queue yesterday for a presentation by Ron Johnson, the senior vice-president of retail at Apple. Before it began at 10am, he whispered: "As soon as Ron's finished I'm going to log on and send iChat to all my contacts to tell them I'm in the new London store. They're not going to believe it." There was a glint in his eye and a tremor in his voice.By 10.10am an email had gone to the macworld.com website spreading the word that Mr Johnson had taken the opportunity to announce two store openings for 2005, in Birmingham and Bluewater. Had he given the dates, no doubt they would have gone straight into many an electronic diary.Apple's real success, however, has been to become a lifestyle brand. Where much technology is intimidating to all but the hardiest of anoraks, Apple, with its chic design and user friendliness - the work of   British designer and serial award winner Johnathan Ive - can still appeal to the technophobe.The iPod is as much a fashion item as a piece of technology. Six million have been sold since its launch in 2003, 2m of those in the last three months. It is the most desirable Christmas gift for the second year running. Whether it will be obtainable is another matter. Apple is notorious for supply not keeping up with demand.At 24, 0000 sq ft, the London store is the company's biggest.The existing outlets, which include 98 mini stores (96 in the US and two in Japan), earn $1.2bn (&#163;700m) for Apple, $40m of that being profit.Apart from a large ground floor sales area offering 60 types of Mac (all switched on and ready for use) and 77 iPod models, the first floor gallery holds a 64-seat theatre and children's area.There is a 14-metre Genius Bar staffed by 10 Mac Genii, who should be able to grapple with any Mac-related query in 24 languages, and a Studio area staffed by five creatives, to help Mac users get the most out of their computers.Mr Johnson referred to his creatives in hushed tones as "people who have actually been to design school".Apple's cultish power is also reflected in the fact that 4,000 people applied for the 138 jobs in the London store.Core valuesApple has come to London, but US prices have not. It is still considerably cheaper to make Apple purchases in the US, especially with the dollar in the doldrums:&#183;mini iPod &#163;179/$249 (&#163;134)&#183;iPod Photo &#163;429/ $599 (&#163;323)&#183;iPod armband &#163;19/ $29 (&#163;16)&#183;iMac 17in screen, 1.8 GHz &#163;1,049/$1,499 (&#163;810)&#183;i Book 12in screen, 1.2 GHz &#163;749/$999 (&#163;540)
Mobile network O2 have convinced Tony Blair to talk to the nation via text."The first ever Prime Minister text chat with the nation which will be transmitted live live from No. 10 Downing Street on Thursday 25th November. However, from today, the UK public will be able to text Prime Minister Tony Blair to directly ask their most pressing questions about life in the UK and world today. These questions will then be personally answered by Tony Blair in the first real time mobile phone chatroom session."I wonder if he'll use txt spk?"gwb: nice win! lets celebr8 when u come 2 visit. cu l8r, tb xx"
Unbelievable. Truly shocking. Finally got Half Life 2 running last night, but how bad is Steam? I haven't been so frustrated trying to get a game to work since that dicky copy ofWinter GamesI had for my C64. For those of you lucky enough not to have experienced it, Steam is developer Valve's online distribution system. For the first time ever owners of a game have to authenticate it online before being able to play it. Just about bearable in theory, terrible in execution. It took me about 4 hours to get up and running, waiting for the overworked servers to unlock and authenticate my files. Of course, Valve know that gamers will put up with this to play Half Life 2, but it is obvious they didn't anticipate the demand their servers would get. So far the game seems worth it, but how many people have they alienated with this cock-up? Anyone else had fun and games with Steam?
The big game this week, of course, was Half Life 2. So important that it was released on Tuesday rather than today. Of course, thealmighty cock-upwith the game's controversial distribution system, Steam, means many owners may have had to wait until today to finally get playing. But, if you can't face the hassle, what else is out today...Need for Speed Underground 2 (PS2, Xbox, GC, GBA)The big franchise game of the week,NSFU2is the sequel to the surprise Christmas number one from last year. This boy-racer driving game lets you mod your car and then race the mean streets to earn money and respect. Unfortunately, unless you are a member of the narrow target audience, ie male petrolhead, this is unlikely to appeal.Burnout 3is more fun if you fancy an exhilarating drive.Singstar Party (PS2)Karaoke for the 21st century, the original Singstar was a highly enjoyable sing-along, especially after a drink or three. The sequel adds a varied mix of new tunes - from Buggles to Busted,Duran Duranto Franz Ferdinand - and lets players compete on duets. Like the original, this won't last for ever, but Singstar is a winner when a party needs pepping up.Mortal Kombat: Deception (PS2, Xbox)Backyard Wrestling: There goes the Neighbourhood. (PS2, Xbox)A rarity here - two fighting games. The first sees the return of the long-running Mortal Kombat series. Thanks in part to the success of GTA, MK Deception sees you guiding your character around an environment, speaking to assorted characters. Of course, being an MK game, once this is done you can then kick them in the head. Similarly violent is Backyard Wrestling, a no-holds-barred fight game where combatants fling fence panels and lawnmowers at each other. Utter rubbish.Tales of Symphonia (GC)Vampire The Masquerade: Bloodlines (PC)Two RPGs in one week - bring it on. Tales of Symphonia is doubly surprising as it appears on the Gamecube. You remember the Gamecube don't you? Cube shaped, lacks games. ToS is unlikely to dent even the lowest reaches of the charts, but ifspikey-haired Japanese RPGsare your thing then this is worth swinging a +2 sword at. Vampire, on the other hand, is a very Western take on role-playing. This is an adult game set in downtown LA. Not bad at all, if you can drag yourself away from Half Life 2.Lineage II: The Chaotic Chronicle (PC)Another week, another MMO. And with the big guns like Everquest 2 and World of Warcraft either out or near release it takes a special game to grab online role-players attention. Lineage II ain't it, but if you want some simplistically addicitive short-term sword-slashing, then this fits the bill.Medal Of Honor: Pacific Assault (PC)Medal of Honor moves its WW2 action from Europe to the Pacific, with typically bombastic consequences. This is a heavily scripted, yet atmospheric first-person shooter that sees you fighting for Uncle Sam in the damp jungle. Great fun of course, but suffers from a release in the same week as HL2.
It must be nearly Christmas. After last week's double header, Online hasfour reviews this week. First up is Prince of Persia: Warrior Within, the sequel to the remake of the classic platform game of yore...Mike Anderiesz was impressed, remarking how the game, "takes on Hollywood and occasionally wins". For those with bad memories of interactive movies, Mike assures us the game is a good 'un, especially, "when slicing a zombie in half with a scimitar".Next up is the game I reviewed - Ratchet &amp; Clank 3. This cartoon classic is one of the most amusing games I've played this year. Back on more traditional gaming territory is Forgotten Realms: Demon Stone. This role-playing game may descend into bearded button-bashing cliché, but Rhianna Pratchett was still positive. "Demon Stone is easy to pick up and play, with rich environments and an engaging storyline." she said, not entirely convincingly.Last up is Flat Out, a banger-racing game that impressed an initially sceptical Steve Boxer. Flatout, he says, "is great fun, well executed and fairly satisfying". Right, must get back to reviewing Half Life 2 for next week..
As our PC shortlist has attracted quite a bit of controversy, we've decided to post our current selection of mobile contenders, so you can get in early and tell us what we've missed out. The mobile category covers GBA, N-Gage and mobile phone titles released during 2004. And here's what I think could be on there...In order of platform:Zelda: Minish Cap (GBA) Metroid: Zero Mission (GBA) Pokemon Fire Red/Leaf Green (GBA) Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow (mobile) Rainbow Six 3 (mobile) Might and Magic (mobile) Fatal Force (Mobile) Pathway to Glory (N-Gage) Pocket Kingdom (N-Gage) The Sims Bustin' Out (N-Gage)What doyouthink?
Dialler scamCould you tell me who has the telephone number 09062690374?John SmithJack Schofield replies:Yes: Media Work of Spalding Strasse 210, 20097 Hamburg, HRB nr 88936, Hamburg. It is rarely easy to find out who owns a phone number, but ones that begin 0906 are premium rate numbers looked after by ICSTIS, the Independent Committee for the Supervision of Standards of Telephone Information Services. In such cases, go to the ICSTIS website atwww.icstis.org.ukand use the premium rate number checker. The number you mention relates to a non-adult internet service, an IQ quiz, costing &#163;1 per minute. The site says: "This service is under investigation by ICSTIS." If the decision goes against it, it could be fined and instructed to refund money to its victims.The main problem is that, because of European trade regulations, it can take six months for ICSTIS to stop a service operated from another EU country. Any scammer could set up a service and defraud a huge number of UK residents of vast sums during this time, collecting the money from, say, BT before BT has even billed its customers. The good news is that, from August 6, companies need a licence to operate an internet dialler service here. ICSTIS says it has pulled the plug on 18 companies, and has barred Media Work for operating without a licence. Such prompt actions are reducing the scale of the problem, though UK consumers will still have paid dearly for government naivety.You should ask your phone company to block all premium rate calls from your line, and if you did not knowingly use the IQ quiz, write to Media Work for a refund. If you want to dispute the bill, you can ask for the charge to be put on hold. However, bear in mind that your telco did not make these calls, and will already have paid for them.Signing outWhen using Hotmail on my own or a public PC, does "signing out" give me anything better than just quitting the browser or choosing another URL?Chris BradyJS:When using a public computer, it is best to sign out of any sites you use, then clear the browser cache and close down the browser, or even reboot the system. Otherwise there may be data stored in memory, in "cookies" or in the browser's hard drive cache (eg in Temporary Internet Files) that could allow someone else to access the same pages. This is particularly important with Hotmail because nobody can sign in to or sign out of Hotmail. What you actually do is sign in to Microsoft's .Net Passport service. This not only vouches for you at the Hotmail mail system, but at dozens of other sites.Also bear in mind the immutable law that any computer is only as secure as the administrator is trustworthy. A computer's administrator has absolute control over the security of that computer, and can easily install keyloggers, Trojans and other spyware. If you can't trust the administrator then you have no security.Bare bonesI'm planning to upgrade my PC - it's based around a 800MHz Celeron - by buying a bare bones system from Novatech so I can use my hard drive etc. Is there much to be gained from paying for a faster processor?Simon BoothJS:Bare bones systems such as the Novatech Barebones (http://masl.to/?Y2CB21BC9) and Aus Pundit (http://masl.to/?W52B12BC9) can be a cheap way to upgrade, if you have a moderate amount of technical knowledge. They are usually supplied without a hard drive, keyboard, mouse, monitor and operating system, and sometimes without memory or processor chips. In general, however, it is not worth saving &#163;20-&#163;30 by choosing a bottom-of-the-range processor, and you should go for at least a 2.4GHz Celeron or the AMD equivalent. It is also worth comparing the final price with, say, a Dell system that will also include a CD-Rom drive, a bundled copy of Windows XP, and one year's support. For instance, you can get a 2.6GHz Dimension 2400 (D1121h) with XP Home installed for &#163;179, which comes to &#163;268 including delivery and VAT. This is a better deal than paying &#163;169 for a full retail edition of XP Home SP2 to run on a barebones system.Mashed upPlease explain the term "mung": it is not in my dictionary.M ForemanJS:Mung (pronounced munge) is an acronym for Mash until no good or, recursively, Mung until no good. It is commonly used when email addresses are mashed up. See Mung and munge in The Jargon File atwww.drbbs.com/jsw/jargon/.Backchat&#183;Last week, I mentioned the problem of viruses and phishing emails putting things into your obsolete Hosts file. These entries could send you to the wrong website, or prevent you from reaching some other sites, mainly anti-virus sites. Peter Johnson says he uses Winpatrol (www.winpatrol.com): "This program monitors many things, one of which is changes to the hosts file."&#183;Send your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.
What is the game of the year? We are running a poll on ourGamesblog, and you can now debate the merits of various PC games and votehere.Of course, it's not just PC games that qualify: votes on console and mobile games will follow.And if you need further encouragement to take part, you could win a fabulous 64-bit AMD-basedAlienware AuroraPC worth around £1,600 (incl delivery to somewhere in the EU).
"Google Scholar, which was scheduled to go online Wednesday evening at scholar.google.com, is a result of the company's collaboration with a number of scientific and academic publishers and is intended as a first stop for researchers looking for scholarly literature like peer-reviewed papers, books, abstracts and technical reports," reportsThe NewYork Times."Google executives declined to say how many additional documents and books had been indexed and made searchable through the service. While the great majority of recent scholarly papers and periodicals are indexed on the Web, many have not been easily accessible to the public."Comment:The beta ishere
"Internet junkies, take heart: Microsoft chairman Bill Gates receives four million e-mails daily, most of them spam, and is probably the most 'spammed' person in the world," reportsAFPin Singapore."But unlike ordinary users, the software mogul has an entire department to filter unsolicited e-mails and only a few of them actually get through to his inbox, Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer said here Thursday."
