YOU WRITE...In her article 'Signed, sealed, delivered: by who?' (Guardian, Thursday 8 January 2009), Anne Wollenberg makes some interesting and useful observations about the practical issues surrounding the take-up of digital signatures for every-day use.Although the article is directed to the use of digital signatures to reduce spam, nevertheless in relation to digital signatures generally, the following comment is the most important: 'For the mail that doesn't get filtered, end-users need to be able to check whether or not it's signed.' There are a substantial number of risks with digital signatures (too many to list in this letter), in addition to those noted by John Colley and Marcus Ranum, one of which is how a person can check the validity of a digital signature. Trying to ensure a signature is valid can be time consuming and complex, and may not be effective. In addition, if a person were to rely on the digital signature (say, for instance, to enter a contract), they will need to be aware that they will have to store all the evidence to prove they checked the signature was valid.Another, arguably more serious issue, is the theft or misuse of private keys. For instance, in Russia a number of organizations have experienced the illegal transfer of money from the company bank account. In each case, the transfer was authorized electronically with the use of the company private key. The most valuable I am aware of, was for 81,788,674.95 roubles (£1,705,631). Although the law reports are not clear about how the thief obtained access to the private key, it is highly probable that a hacker placed an item of malicious software on the computer to allow them to transfer money at will from the company bank account, using the company private key of their digital signature.E-commerce has demonstrably succeeded without digital signatures. Digital signatures are not necessary for e-commerce - other forms of electronic signature are widely used: the PIN, the 'I accept" icon, typing the name into the bottom of an e-mail: all these forms of electronic signature are capable of proving intent in the digital world, and they do, every day of the week.Digital signatures are, however, of great use between closed communities, such as the banks, as identified by the comments of John Bullard. Where two parties are contractually bound to the proper use of digital signatures, the problems melt away, because the legal risks are allocated between the parties. With PKI, not only does the ordinary person not understand why they need a digital signature, but they do not understand their complexity or the wide number of weaknesses that will leave them legally exposed, should something go wrong.Stephen Mason, Author: Electronic Signatures in Law (Tottel, 2nd edition, 2007)stephenmason.euJust because you may think you're editing for techies, geeks and nerds does not excuse poor English grammar. Your front page headline should read "Signed, sealed, delivered: by whom?"I do enjoy Technology Guardian - specially "Ask Jack" which should not fight shy of answering more basic questions as it once was wont to do.Andrew Papworth, BillericayBIOMETRICALLY SPEAKINGIn reply to Bruce Schneier, the National Identity Scheme is in a unique position to take advantage of the benefits of biometrics while being mindful of their limitations. It is true that a single biometric used in isolation has serious limitations, which is why the NIS is using advances in biometrics to supplement and build on the existing excellent security features of the Britishp assport.We plan to use all ten fingerprints and facialb iometrics to ensure that someone can only enrol on the scheme once, thereby preventing multiple identities being established. However, this technology won't be used in isolation, combining biometrics with secure tokens (passport and ID Cards) and effective business processes will ensure more convenience for the user and less chance of identity theft.It is only by recognising the natural limitations of biometrics that they can be used to provide significant enhancements to identity security.Dr Duncan Hine, Identity and Passport Service, Executive Director Security and IntegrityMACEXPO: NOT MISSEDWith regard to the lack of an update to the Mac Mini, the price and specification of this machine demonstrates how out of touch Apple are with the current state of the world economy. Prices start from £391 for a machine with a "combo drive" (meaning it can read but not burn DVDs), 80Gb of disk space and only 1Gb of RAM; updating to 2Gb nearly £50. In the real world, 2Gb of that type of RAM costs under £20 from Crucial, including delivery, and you can get a Dell with twice the memory, 500Gb of disk space, a DVD writer, a dedicated graphics card and a faster processor, which can be opened with a screwdriver rather than with decorators' tools and upgraded easily, for £329. Apple are clearly not interested in selling computers to people on a budget, and since there will be far more of those around in the months to come, one hopes Steve Jobs will get out of the way or get a clue if the platform is to survive.Matthew Smith, New Walden&gt;&gt; The only trouble with twitter is that the demand is fast overtaking the capacity. Witness the sighting of the famous twitter fail whale during the Macworld keynote speech last night (although this is more interesting in defining the twitter Mac demographic, rather than the failure to manage the demand. And let's not even get into the Macworld keynote speech, which basically boiled down to a few software updates, a new MacBook Pro and a standardisation of the iTunes library - yo, way to go, Apple.)onionbagblog.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; it looks like Apple compromised on the cost of tracks, but the big record companies have also seen that iTunes will probably remain the dominant player in the market.ippoippo.net&gt;&gt; We7's CEO Steve Purdham (who we first mentioned last week) hailed the news by commenting that "the spectrum of choice for music lovers is now greater than ever before and the stage is set for 2009 to really open the boundaries of digital music consumption". Couldn't have put it better myself.theregoesthefear.com&gt;&gt; As the person who is synonymous with Apple, it must have been hard for Steve to not give the last Apple Macworld keynote. So, Backblaze made some flyers to let him know how we all feel in just four words: Bring Back Steve Jobs.blog.backblaze.com&gt;&gt; As an exhibitor from 1988-1993, preparing for the Expo always ruined the Xmas break. In only exception was in 1990, when Apple product delays forced the show from January to April, saving my company.blog.openitstrategies.comTWITTER HACKS&gt;&gt; However, while it is great news that Twitter will be implementing OAuth soon, they haven't yet and there are plenty of other services that don't use it, it's therefore worth pausing for a moment to consider how we've got here and what the issues are, because while it will be great — right now — it's a bit rubbish.derivadow.comWHICH HARD DRIVEI thought Which? were miss advising your readers the only true way to remove personal data from a hard drive is to overwrite it a couple of times. I know of experiments of which they have blown up hard drives and still have been able to recover data from it hitting it with a hammer would not stop anybody with the knowledge i have from extracting information from it. Off course if they wished to do so.Allister Day, by emailThere are safer and better alternatives to taking a hammer to your PC, as was recommended by Which? Computing this week. Smashing hard drives to prevent data theft could lead to thousands of useful, working PCs and laptops being put out of service and total hard drive destruction should be a last resort.Computer manufacture is an energy intensive process, with as much as 75%* of the energy used in the lifetime of a PC being consumed during production, before it's even switched on for the first time. As a result, we should be looking to extend the life of unwanted working equipment as much as possible and not recklessly smashing components without first considering the alternatives.For example, at Computer Aid we guarantee 100 per cent data deletion to all donors, free of charge, using the world's leading data destruction software from Blancco, approved by the US military and UK secret service. Once donated, we professionally refurbish unwanted PCs and laptops for reuse in the developing world.Out-of-use PCs and laptops, complete with hard drives, can go on to provide another four years of use by school children, hospitals and communities across the developing world, enriching education, improving employment prospects and enhancing healthcare.Consider more environmentally and socially friendly ways to protect your data and dispose of your equipment.Louise Richards, CEO, Computer Aid InternationalThis is silly. It's misleading to the public, and honestly smacks of a heady mix of sensationalism and a disturbing lack of research on the part of the Which? team.Which? Computing Magazine recommends smashing hard drives with a hammer to protect personal data.The problem is that most people rely on simply "deleting" the data, trusting that the computer actually does what it says when you click the appropriate button. In fact, data that has just been "deleted" from a hard drive without the use of a good data erase program is not erased at all, the only thing that is actually changed on the hard drive are the pointers that tell the PC where the data is stored- essentially they go from "this is where the data is" to "this space for rent."Is destroying your hard drive the only 100% method to keep your data safe? Well, technically, yes. HOWEVER, any decent secure data erase program which overwrites the data surface of your hard drive will make the data on the drive almost completely impossible to recover. I say "almost" because if an obsessive with access to a supercomputer and an electron microscope had several years to work on reverse engineering pseudo-random number generation algorithms, he could potentially(if everything went perfectly) figure out some of what might have been on the hard drive before the data erase was run. In practical terms, that's never going to happen.Erase your data...change a life!Finding a good data erase program that will securely overwrite and thoroughly destroy any data from your computer's hard drive isn't that difficult. Good secure erase programs are quite easy to find on the Internet and many of them are even free to use.If you plan to erase the data on your PC before disposing of it, you may want to read on:Computers 4 Africa is a charity located in Kent. The charity's main goal is to provide computers for schools in Africa. The way they do this is by holding local appeals throughout the United Kingdom. Through these local appeals and other efforts the charity is able to collect unwanted (no more than 5 years old) IT equipment. So far, Computers 4 Africa has been able to send approximately 3,700 PCs to African schools. To learn more visit www.computers4africa.org.uk.Ida Gaye, Computers4Africa, MaidstoneMORE THAN 100...Please see this for the best Glasgow happenings web site (though needs more southside coverage!). Has been around for a few years and is very friendly siteglasgowwestend.co.ukRussell Ecob, Glasgow&gt;&gt; Thrillingly, A New Band A Day was featured (albeit briefly) in The Guardian today! Hooray! Celebrate this new-found media acceptance by downloading the free ANBAD eBook, and then foolishly pretending that it's a whole newspaper about us!anewbandaday.comBANK ON ITknitwareblog asks why Lloyds or Barclays(!!) aren't the authority on savings instead of moneysavingexpert.com. It's not just about brands. It's about paying you 0.1% on your current account when rates were 5%. The former aren't interested in you; only your money. Moneysavingexpert exists solely to give you a better deal and tell you (impartially) what is going on.Alan Gent, CheadleCHILD PROTECTION?Is Andy Burnham announcing a shift in government policy or was what Alun Michael, Minister of State for Industry and Regions stated at the Second Phase of the WSIS 16 November 2005 just hot air, viz "governments should work in partnership with industry and consumers to find, wherever possible, non-legislative solutions to deal effectively with public policy concerns. Take the example of an issue that is important to all of us: protecting children. In my country we have developed a solution that is much speedier and more effective than legislation can ever be. Industry and Government agreed that industry itself would set up a clearing house, called the Internet Watch Foundation to detect abusive images of children on the Internet. Industry agreed to work with the Foundation to remove those sites. Government agreed to hold back from legislation. Together we have achieved more through co-operation in a year than legislation could achieve in five years, and at minimum cost".See:itu.intDon Hamilton, Mablethorpe&gt;&gt; if Andy Burnham really thinks that parents want ISPs that censor what websites children can see, why doesn't he start up a company supplying such a service? If he's right, the'll get loads of customers, and make big profits. (In fact, several companies have tried this and found that hardly anyone wanted to buy such a service).cabalamat.wordpress.com
My, my, Wired magazine's looking thin these days. Only a month or so ago I remember looking at a big fat dollop of paper, all health and bouncy. Today, however, when I went to get my post my first thought went something along the lines of "Wow, this feels really lightweight".You might almost say it was gaunt.The next thing that popped into my brain was "why?".Knowing the way the magazine industry works, with lead times of around three or four months, I had a little theory: the January issue of Wired was put together in September or October - in other wordsafter the financial crisis. Was it the victim of the credit crunch?Turns out that, yes, there does seem to be a significantly lower proportion of ads in the latest issue - in fact, the numbers are down across the board. Here's my quick count of pages:December:101 pages of editorial, 118 pages of advertising (a 46/54 split)January:84 pages of editorial and just35 pagesof ads (a 70/30 split)Maybe, I thought, it was just a blip. After all, December's the Christmas month and advertisers love getting their gift ideas out there - perhaps it was a bumper issue, with a far higher ad count than normal. Well, I went back to the October issue to compare my results  and found that with 100 pages of editorial and 116 pages of advertising, October was almost exactly the same as December.Now, fewer ads obviously makes for a better experience as a reader. None of those pesky promotions getting in my way, and I get the feeling of more content too (although, in fact, there is less of it overall since the page count is lower). But can the magazine support its editorial staff on such a count?With such drastic loss of weight in such as short time, could Wired be ready for death watch? Unlikely: a big name like that, backed by publisher Conde Nast, will probably survive the recession. But this radical reduction in income is bound to have knock-on effects at Wired HQ. And what does it mean for the newUK edition of Wired, which is set to launch in April?We demand to know!
Citro&euml;n Multispace&pound;11,445Miles per gallon: 49.6CO2 per km: 150 gramsGood for: top hatsBad for: top catsJames, the Observer's car photographer, inches Citro&euml;n's Berlingo Multispace slightly forward so he can perfectly capture the reflection of its rear tyre in a puddle. A passer-by, who has been silently watching him work, can bear it no longer. He comes over and states with admirable bluntness: "There's nowt you can do to make that'n look good." True, and compared to the flowing lines of the cars sweeping past us, the Multispace is aesthetically challenging. But then it's not fair to compare it with other cars because, well, it's not actually a car. It is a "car-van", or possibly a "can". And by can standards it's a bit of a looker.For years, the Berlingo has been Citro&euml;n's bestselling small van. Cheap, practical and robust, it has a hint of Gallic attitude which seemed to set it above the fleets of identikit white vans that move like dirty glaciers along our streets. But a decade ago, some bright spark realised it wasn't only delivery drivers who'd benefit from road-going space at a knock-down price: there are child-rearing adults, for instance, who usually had to put up with a half-collapsed buggy jabbing them in the ribs. So Citro&euml;n banged in some windows and a back seat and, lo, the Multispace was born. And a few years later more than 1m have been sold - more in fact than the original van, which has sold 800,000 in the same time.This latest version is actually based on the running gear of the C4 Picasso and shares the same sleek nose, high grille and many of that car's mechanical underpinnings, so it is smoother and more responsive than the new Berlingo van which was launched at the same time. But despite Citro&euml;n's best efforts, there is no getting away from the fact that the Multispace will always be, at heart, a workhorse, albeit with a rather fancy blanket. But then that is the whole point of this vehicle. It offers the spaciousness of an MPV at supermini prices. Pound for pound, it must be one of the best vehicles on the road.Inside it's brimming over with clever touches and neat solutions. There are storage cubbies, stowage areas and underfloor lockers - you could while away a long journey playing hunt the thimble. The rear doors slide open to make loading easy and all the rear seats can be removed to create a vast flatbed. The roof can also be fitted with four glass panels, creating a light-filled cabin and generating enough head clearance to accommodate an Amy Winehouse beehive. There's an integrated air freshener and a nifty dual-function bootlight/torch, too. I also liked the upright "van-man" driving position and no-nonsense fabric and plastic finish. This Citro&euml;n is defiantly out and proud about its no-frills practicality.But perhaps the Multispace's most surprising claim is that it is the first car to come complete with an internal roof rack. Its aircraft-style Modutop roof - a &pound;550 option - fits above your head and is perfect for carrying skis. Unlike exterior roof rails, there's no increase in fuel consumption, and no danger of your skis being stolen.Now don't tell me that isn't beautiful.martin.love@observer.co.uk
The PC market stumbled in the final quarter of 2008, and may even have declined compared with the same quarter last year, according to the latest estimated figures. Since sales are tracked in units, the financial position must be even worse: a £250 netbook counts the same as a £1,500 MacBook, but the profit margin is much lower.According to Gartner, the worldwide PC industry suffered its worst growth rate since 2002, with fourth quarter shipments rising just 1.1% to 78.1 million units. Over the full year, however, shipments grew by 10.9% to 302.2m units.IDC's numbers were even worse: it had fourth quarter shipments falling by 0.4% to 77m units.In the full year, Gartner says Hewlett-Packard increased its lead as the world's top PC manufacturer, shipping 55.7m units for an 18.4% market share. HP was followed by Dell (43.1m), Acer, (33.5m), Lenovo (21.9m) and Toshiba (13.5m). Acer's unit shipments grew by 26.5%, thanks to the success of its Acer Aspire One netbook.IDC commented:Low-cost portables, vendor competition, and holiday promotions were simply not enough to overcome the economic tide, even with the market for mini notebooks (also known as netbooks) taking off. Growth of portable PCs was cut roughly in half from nearly 40% year on year in the first three quarters of 2008 to roughly 20% in the fourth quarter.The US market was weak in the fourth quarter, with sales down by 10.1% to 15.6m units, on Gartner's numbers. However, Acer's shipments jumped 55.4%, which enabled the company to overtake Apple.Gartner reckons the top 5 in the US in Q4 were Dell (4.5m units), HP (4.4m), Acer (2.4m), Apple (1.2m) and Toshiba (1.0m). IDC has the same companies in the same order, but credits Acer with fewer sales (2.1m).Mika Kitagawa, principal analyst for Gartner's Client Computing Markets group, said:"In the fourth quarter, US businesses quickly cut IT spending with public sectors, including some government and education buyers, postponed PC procurement due to budget crisis concerns. PC vendors focused on the professional market were especially hit by the weakening market conditions. Overall, consumer mobile PC shipments showed strength, but the shipment growth was boosted by steep ASP [average selling price] declines which were further accelerated by the popularity of mini-notebooks."The slowdown in government and business sales obviously hit Dell, which is now only just ahead of HP in the US market.Over the full year, IDC reckons Dell had US sales of 20.3m units for a 29.5% market share, followed by HP (17.1m), Acer (6.3m), Apple (5.3m) and Toshiba (2.8m). Total sales came to 68.7m units, giving Apple a US market share of 7.7%, up from 6.2% last year. But it was overtaken by Acer, which grew its unit sales by 62.1%.
Well, it's been a hell of a busy fortnight. Steve Jobs ill. Apple releases some software and updates a laptop. My predictions (including one about Steve Jobs). Yahoo gets a new chief (and my opinion on her challenges). Microsoft gets a new beta for Windows. Steve Jobs gets, it seems, more ill. Nintendo puts even more clear road between itself and Sony. Sony's financial results are going to be painful - as in $1.1bn loss for the year painful.And now you want to know what's important? We've got important coming out of our ears. Perhaps the pertinent question is: what's interesting? Even better: what's important and interesting?The news from Dixons Store Group and IDC, that's what. DSG is a barometer of our fascination as a nation with the shiny technology gew-gaws now on offer. I go into the one in my local town once or twice a week to take the gadget temperature: see what they're pushing, what's hot, what's been consigned to the top (and hence obscurity: presently it's big USB 2 external drives). And occasionally to buy something. IDC, meanwhile, reports on sales of PCs.Neither had very good news this week. Let's start with IDC. It reported on PC sales for 2008, and boy, was it gloomy. The fourth quarter figures for PC unit sales showed a decline (compared to 2007) of 0.4%; worse, it forecast a 5.3% decline in sales for 2009, more than in 2001 when the US was last in recession and unit sales fell by 5%. IDC is only offering a "slow" recovery in 2009.Most PC sales of course go to corporates rather than consumers, but both are holding back from purchases as they try to assess quite how much cash they have to play with.Mixed in with this is the news from Intel that it had its worst quarter for 20 years, andincome fell to just 10% of the year-ago figure, with revenue down by 23% at $8.2bn; and for the next quarter it's vaguely forecasting only $7bn (lower than the $7.28bn analysts were forecasting).And then we look at DSG.Oh dear. Sales fell 10% overall in the 12 weeks to January 10; and it would have been worse if the quarter had ended before the post-Christmas sales. DSG executives were so puzzled by what was (not) going on that they got staff to ask customers. Who told them they were waiting for the post-Christmas sales. Deflation, thy name is gadget buyers. Only laptops, netbooks and flatscreen TVs kept things afloat.And there's the clue for the problem that the PC industry faces in 2009, which is very likely going to be ugly. The problem is those little things that weren't there at all a year ago: the netbooks. For PC makers, which for years have been able to smile and persuade themselves that things aren'tthatbad, even as they scrape and scrimp profits from volume sales - somehow - of desktops and laptops, the netbooks are the devil's work.I mean, look at the damn things. They're cheap as chips (around £200 for a Linux-based Eee PC). The margins on them are so thin you could cut yourself on them. And though they're presently an incremental, rather than replacement market (the netbook supplements, rather than replaces, your ageing machine), in cash-straitened times they're suddenly attractive to parents looking for get a child online, or someone who's trying to save the deposit for a house while paying down their credit card bills.Netbooks, in other words, are going to start eating the traditional PC makers' businesses like termites discovering a wood-framed house.Nobody is safe from this, not even Apple - which some people think is somehow safe from netbooks because it makes premium-price products. Wrong. Another research group, NPD, says sales of Apple's computers declined by 1% in November; in my inbox this morning I found an analyst note from RBC Capital Markets, reckoning Apple's shares will underperform the market, in part due to its own surveys data whichindicates further deterioration next 90 days in consumer electronics and Apple-related spending; January RBC IQ / Changewave survey data (3,500) shows only 28% of respondents planning to purchase a Mac laptop next 90 days, down from 33% Nov. Separately, 30% plan on buying iPhone 3G in Dec, down from 34% in Sept.Just after Macworld last week, it had also noted "risks" for Apple, in the form of "deteriorating consumer spending environment [and] premium price points mismatched to tightening budgets".Apple is going to release its financial figures for the quarter last this month. Those are going to be - well, interesting. Forget the Jobs foofarah, which won't have affected those. These numbers are going to tell us just how exposed Apple is to the cold winds blowing through the consumer economy in America, where half of its revenues come from.Hell, it's going to hurt them all. Analysts think that Intel needs to sell three times as many processors for netbooks to make the same profit it does on a single laptop processor sale.What's causing it all? Moore's Law. Netbooks are now as capable - or better - than computers of five or six years ago. My daughter's Asus Eee PC can play back YouTube videos - which her 2001-vintage iBook (a hand-me-down; it died before Christmas) couldn't.For the PC business, which has grown used to eking out an existence, 2009 is going to be even tougher. Sales are going to be down. Companies that might have upgraded to Vista are going to pause and wait for Windows 7, which has been getting rave reviews from beta testers. And those netbooks are going to slice the profits out of the bottom of the consumer market.PC makers will have to pray that Microsoft gets Windows 7 out of the door this year, or they are going to suffer. It won't be pretty. Indeed, it might be the first time that Moore's Law really starts biting PC makers, rather than helping them. In the past, it helped them sell computers: they could promise faster performance. But now, netbooks offer good-enough performance, especially if your internet connection is fast enough; add-on disk space (all those USB disks on the shelves at Currys Digital) is cheap. Why buy a PC, apart from the screen size - but those are cheap too?I think PC makers might be glad of all the noise around Jobs, Bartz and Sony. At least it will distract people from their travails. For a while. But only a while.
If the purpose of the modern car industry is to produce solutions to problems that don't exist, then the Vauxhall Insignia is destined for success. Just when your average sales rep is in danger of either losing his job or car allowance, along comes the machine of his dreams.Political columnists have been writing the obituary of Mondeo Man for a good few years now, although the car after which he's named remains in rude health. Here, though, is a genuine rival to the Mondeo, a car that should soon become a familiar sight at midday in the middle lanes of Middle England's motorways.And it is on motorways that the car comes into its own. In the city, it makes for a slightly baggy drive. Not cumbersome, exactly, but a long way from taut. The sensation is increased by the diesel engine that, at low speed, gives off the familiar vibrating parp that can make diesels seem about as sexy as an irritable bowel.That seemed particularly unfortunate, because the Insignia is a good-looking car. Streamlined, with a classy, grilled front and a sporty, hatchback rear, it manages to combine executive status with stylish convenience, which is to say it doesn't necessarily look as if you're on your way to flog widgets to a wholesaler.The interior, meanwhile, is roomy and comfortable, and the dashboard elegant and straightforward (though if there is a track-selector on the steering wheel, I failed to find it). Yet I can't say I enjoyed driving the car across town.However, by a stroke of luck, which admittedly struck me as an onerous chore at the time, I had to go to the western end of Dorset and pick up a cottage-load of bags, blankets, duvets and unused food. And the trip there in the Insignia turned out to be a joy - smooth, fast and effortless, with neither sign nor sound of the farting diesel. But I wondered if the car could take all the stuff, along with two adults and a child. I had visions of driving with a plastic sackful of knick-knacks on my lap.Here was where the long, sloping hatch really stood up and volunteered for action, for beneath it was enough space for most of the cottage's contents and, I would have thought, a hefty sample of widgets to boot. The rest of the stuff I squeezed in the back, leaving a small-girl-sized space from which my daughter could issue loud and detailed instructions on CD selection.Brimful, the car was no less speedy or comfortable on the way back. It was the quickest time in which I'd completed the journey, and I still had more than half a tank of diesel left at the end. Usually after a prolonged stint driving on the motorway, it feels as if I've actually run the distance, such are my aches and general fatigue. But on this occasion I felt as though I could drive all day on the motorway; indeed, I felt as if I wanted to drive all day on the motorway. In other words, without putting a name to the condition, I felt like I wanted to become a sales rep.Behold, the Insignia Man cometh. OK, the demographic may need work. But at least it's got a car.Vauxhall Insignia 2.0 CDTiPrice£21,535Top speed135mphAcceleration0-62 in 8.9 secondsConsumption48.7 mpgCO2 emissions154g/kmEco rating7.5/10At the wheelWilly LomanBound forSwindonIn a wordManagerial
In a world where not only laptops but most new phones feature tiny cameras ready to broadcast your image around the world, webcam makers might have thought it was game over. Enter Minoru, a binocular webcam that looks like a tiny red robot and allows you to shoot stills and films in 3D. Coming with sets of natty cardboard 3D glasses to share among some of your friends, getting it set up is hilariously easy (if you have a PC - Mac owners, sadly, need not apply) and actually making movies is as easy as it is with a conventional webcam. Playing it back, you'll notice that the 3D effect is vastly more palpable for objects near the camera, making it well suited for headache-inducing web chats and various acts of third dimension-taunting hand waving. There's also a clear viewing sweet spot where it all seems to work slightly better. While in no way comparable to being able to look behind objects, Minoru is a pleasing gimmick that gives a noticeable impression of depth.• Minoru, &pound;49.95
Now that Norris McWhirter and his official clipboard are no more, there's no reason why Guinness should own the only book of record breakers. Here, billed as "the definitive site for human achievement", all are invited to break any record they desire - including ones they've just made up. To this end, "human achievement" extends from the bizarre ("most stuffed tiger heads attached to a bicycle") to the mundane ("most images of fish sandwiches looked at in one minute") to stuff that you need to apply proper dedication to equal, such as "consecutive back flips on stilts" and "fastest consumption of six cupcakes". Watch films of the records, rate them or add your own. Maybe ex-Record Breakers presenter Kriss Akabusi could enter with "laugh most likely to make you throw knives at TV".
•The Hollywoodstar system makes some people really sick.•What happenswhen you cross Radiohead with Jay-Z.•The other sideof the world isn't Australia•How tomake animated movies - really fast•Nothing frightensNew Yorkers like British food•Five seriesof The Wire in a five-minute rap•Computer-literatemums are so embarrassing•The mostextraordinary places to take a bath•Richard Madeleyand Bill Oddie love fingering fish together
Xbox's killer app - and the single reason for the sale of a frightening number of Microsoft's consoles - is Halo. Or rather, it was, since Halo 3 was very clear about being the end of the series. As it turns out, finishing the story isn't quite the same as halting production of new games, which means we can expect both Halo: Orbital Drop Shock Trooper and Halo Wars in the near future. While the former is another first person shooter, Halo Wars is a real-time strategy game based on the world, characters, weapons and vehicles used in the bestselling franchise. Critics have been swift to point out that Halo's imagery may not add all that much in moving the property to an entirely new genre, and even if it did, this game isn't even created by Bungie, developer of the hugely popular franchise to date.The free demo is due on Xbox Live in early February with the finished article following a few weeks later.
AC/DC Live: Rockband PS2, PS3, Wii, Xbox 360Guitar Hero's craze for mock rock stardom continues on many fronts, and those owning Rock Band's considerable volume of plastic equipment - including guitar, drum kit and microphone - get more rawk nostalgia in this 18-track AC/DC expansion pack. First impressions are that you're getting a slightly stripped down version of the full game. The reality is that, with its bastardised Tour Mode, tiny playlist, inability to access downloadable content and basic original Rock Band-style play mechanics, the best thing you can do with this is to import its tracks into Rock Band 2 and get on with your life. The problem there is that it starts to sound pretty expensive, and while the songs themselves are often a joy to dust off, some are paralysingly difficult and, if you've got a poor old bass player, not really that interesting.• Electronic Arts, &pound;19.99-&pound;29.99
The internet is overrun with pictures of impossibly cute fluffy animals, cat diaries and videos of lions cuddling hippies, all of which overlook two essential truths about animals: given half a chance they will a) eat all our food and then b) eat us. Here, however, the same level of snarky vitriol usually aimed at dumb celebrities is targeted at the animal kingdom, exposing swans as nature's Porsche drivers, labelling polar bears elitist and ponies desperate for attention. Reporting on the news from China about two escaped pandas they write: "These assholes were running all over town standing on their hind legs like they were homo fucking sapiens." Don't worry - the "unrepentant bastards" were soon back behind bars.
Steve Jobs isconsidering a liver transplantto treat a consequence of the neuroendocrine cancer he was treated for in 2004, according to the financial news service Bloomberg.The story, which is unconfirmed, quotes unnamed "people who are monitoring his illness"; in a phone call, Jobs apparently told the organisation "Why don't you guys leave me alone - why is this important?"Why is it important? Well, Apple's stock has lost around 10% of its value since Jobs released a letter on Wednesday saying he would be on medical leave until June because his medical condition - previous described as a "hormone imbalance" - were "more complex". Clearly, some stockholders think it is important.Bloomberg quotes medical sources who say thatneuroendocrine tumors that originate in the pancreas, as Jobs's did, often spread to the liver. One option doctors have in these cases is to perform a liver transplant, Steven Brower, professor and chairman of surgery at Mercer University School of Medicine in Savannah, Georgia, said."It's one of the tumors for which transplantation can be considered," said Brower, who is a member of the American Society of Clinical Oncology. "It's rare, but it's sometimes done."Note that Brower isn't treating Jobs, and there's no suggestion that he's the source of Bloomberg's story. However, he is a specialist in this field. There's nothing in what Browser has said that differs from the many medical opinions out there.And Brower does offer a positive outlook, if - pinch of salt time - Jobs is indeed seeking such a transplant.Brower said the transplant might work out well in a patient whose neuroendocrine cancer began in the pancreas, in part because this tumor type often spreads only to the liver and grows so slowly. Even after having had a Whipple procedure [as Jobs did to remove the tumours], a patient might expect to have good quality of life, he said."The outcome can be quite good," he said. "With immunosuppressive drugs, the patient can expect to have a significant, durable life expectancy."The Whipple procedure, following neuroendocrine tumours, has a survival rate of around 50% after 5 years. That puts Jobs in the fortunate 50% already. Plus he no doubt has the best medical treatment money can buy.Why does it matter? Why do the stories (and we've spared you one of the more ludicrous medical ones that was on Wikileaks - which even Wikileaks didn't believe, since the timings, quite apart from anything else, were all wrong, involving a blood test apparently done in 2004 by a company that didn't exist until 2006) keep trickling out?Because Steve Jobs can't stop trying to control everything. He won't accept that it's not that people want him to be ill. Quite the opposite. They just want toknow. Then they can arrange their lives. Everyone will be - well, if not happier, at least with a little less uncertainty in their lives.To recall the line from the John Cleese showcase film Clockwise, in which Cleese is a time-obsessed headmaster who is trying to get to an appointment but keeps being diverted, "I can cope with the despair. It's the hope that kills you." (Cleese wrote the line himself.)The irony is that in his2005 commencement speech at Stanford, Jobs said:Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because almost everything — all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure - these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.By "soon" he meant "in less than 100 years". We're all going to die, one day. There's no embarrassment in being ill; only in needlessly hiding from the truth. So we will, regrettably, have to keep trying to follow the zigs and zags of this story until the facts emerge, blinking, into the light.
The European Commission has taken another shot at software giant Microsoft, by saying that the US technology company could be breaking the law by packaging its Internet Explorer web browser with Windows.In what it is calling a "preliminary" view on a complaint by one of Microsoft's rivals, the Commission said it believes that the company "distorts competition on the merits between competing web browsers" by bundling IE with every copy of Windows.In a statement, officials said that there were a number of possible problems with Microsoft's actions."The Commission is concerned that through the tying, Microsoft shields Internet Explorer from head-to-head competition with other browers, which is detrimental to the pace of product innovation and to the quality of products which consumers ultimately obtain," it said.The complaint,made in 2007 by Norwegian web browser company Opera, is essentially an extension of the landmark case in the 1990s that saw Microsoft go up against the US government over allegations of anti-competitive behaviour.In 1998, the US government tried Microsoft over accusations that it unfairly maintained its monopoly, ending with that the company "will use its prodigious market power and immense profits to harm any firm… that could intensify competition".Although the US Department of Justice initially sought to split Microsoft in two, an intervention by President George Bush culminated in a settlement in 2001 – although thanks to a torturous appeals process, the agreement was not finally settled until 2004.But commission officials said that the punishments put in place by Washington lawyers did not affect the legal standing of Windows or Internet Explorer in Europe.The Seattle-based software company responded to the Commission's latest statement by saying that it is studying the documents and has two months to respond."We are committed to conducting our business in full compliance with European law," it said in a statement.Although the company gave recognition to the statement of objection, it did not address the allegations themselves or state whether it would request a hearing.The announcement is just the latest episode in a long and bruising conflict between European officials and the American hi-tech giant.Last year, the EU fined Microsoft a record £680m for charging rivals "unreasonable" prices to access parts of its software – adding to other fines and levies totalling more than £1.5bn over the past four years.
I'm still trying to purge the memory of seeing the amateur* demo video for Microsoft Research'sSongsmithsoftware, so I'm not going to link to it -- masochists can find it for themselves, or try one of the mashups/parodies. But it turns out that YouTube'sazz100cis having fun with the program.Songsmith is a bit like karaoke meets Jive Bunny, the sort of record that can clear whole neighbourhoods of anyone with the least bit of musical taste. Basically, you "sing" any old rubbish and Songsmith provides an appropriate  backing track.But it turns out that the program, launched at CES, does have a use. You can produce naff backing tracks for pop classics and run them behind the original video, to humorous effect. Roxanne, by The Police, is a typical example (above).YouTubehas other examples, including Wonderwall (Oasis), What's Going On (Marvin Gaye), and Long Train Runnin (The Doobie Brothers). Surprisingly, I can't see any Led Zepp yet.There's a free trialdownload.* Note: the people in the video are real researchers from the Songsmith team in Redmond, as you can see fromRobert Scoble's hotel-room demo, which shows you the software. And they might just be taking the p*ss out of some old Apple videos.
Somehow, Seabraes House, a squat glass-fronted office building on the bank of the river Tay, has become the epicenter of Dundee's considerable development community. Here, you'll find Proper Games and Cohort, two small studios that emerged from the wreckage of veteran developer Visual Science when it crashed two years ago. And down the corridor isTag Games, currently with a staff of eleven, but seemingly working on enough projects to suit a company twice its size. Over the road, a newcomer, Ruffian, has just set up shop; rumour has it they're working on Crackdown 2; co-founder Billy Thomson and other employees are fresh from Real-Time Worlds. They're not talking.Tag Games, on the other hand, have a lot to say. Founded in 2006 by ex-DMA staffers Paul Farley and Jamie Bryan, the company spent the first two years of its existence crafting original, well-conceived mobile titles like revolving maze puzzler, Rock 'N' Roll, and GTA-alike, Car Jack Streets. But the market is tough, especially for original content. Publishers and network operators are mostly interested in console conversions and movie tie-ins – stuff they can easily sell to casual phone users. New IP rarely stands a chance. "I got into mobile because I saw interesting things happening," says Farley who joined mobile publisher Digital Bridges (now I-play) in 2000. Now he feels the Java market may have missed its chance for a genuine mainstream explosion. "Let's be honest, there were probably more interesting things happening ten years ago, with location-based games, the wap server stuff…" he trails off dejectedly.But now there's iPhone and App Store...And as Steve Boxerwrites in today's Guardian, the sleek handset has become a major games platform, boasting in excess of 1,500 titles. Farley is clearly a convert, "App Store is ingrained in people's brains, in their lives – they using it everyday, they live with it, they're comfortable with it. They're quite happy to give Apple their credit card details. Before they were buying games, they were buying music – it's a natural progression. And Apple probably now has the best distribution platform on the planet. They're making a real play in games and it's not going to end with iPhone, I'm quite convinced of that." He envisages a near-future where Apple rolls out a range of touchscreen products covering all customer budgets - as it has done with iPod. Will there be a sub-£100 games-capable device from Apple in the next year or so? It's distinctly possible.For now, Tag is busy feeling its way into the iPhone market. It has already ported Rock 'N' Roll, which has attracted good reviews. The team also managed to use some old art assets for an undeveloped Darts game, creating All-Star Darts for iPhone in barely a month. Farley is enjoying the Wild West feel of the App Store market, the fact that even the big publishers don't know what to make of the price points or marketing possibilities – they're just putting stuff out there and analysing the data as it comes in.Rock 'N' Roll originally went out at $2.99, but Tag immediately noticed a lot of downward pressure in the market; most games were selling at the $1 level. So they stuck Darts out at that price point and it performed well. Both games are now profitable. "The great thing about App Store is you can change things really quickly," says Farley. "You also get a daily feedback on sales, you get a financial report every month, you getpaidevery month - in terms of cashflow for a small developer like ourselves, it's great. On traditional mobile we could launch a game tomorrow and it could be six to nine months before we get a penny back".Car Jack is GTA re-imagined by the original creator of Liberty City...Right now the studio's emphasis is on an iPhone conversion of Car Jack Streets. The original Java game is a decent stab at the original GTA, with a similar combination of fraught driving, bloody gangland missions and an open environment. Farley was on the original GTA team – he was there when it was a dodgy tech demo, he designed Liberty City. "When we set up Tag two years ago, we thought one of the things that mobile was missing was a GTA-type game. However, it was only when the current highend handsets came out, when Java file sizes went up to 750k, that we could really start to build a living, breathing city – albeit very cut-down. In 650k we've created a very GTA-like experience. So, yes, we're heavily influenced by the original GTA – we've always loved that kind of Amiga-look".For the iPhone – which allows file sizes of up to 100mb - the team are looking at converting Car Jack to 3D. They show me an early version of the game and already, the parallax movement of the buildings is even more redolent of DMA's epoch-shattering classic. They're also adding more vehicle models, while improving the basic day-to-day 'filler' missions, like delivering pizzas and driving cabs. The main gangland missions are also being spruced up, although the team is planning to retain the game's clever real-time system, which marries key events to your handset's clock – "you're encouraged to play for 10-15 minutes every day," says Farley, "people bought in to that, it seemed to really work". They're also hoping to add an online high score table where players can post their daily or weekly earnings to unlock new game items.Astro Ranch: is it Harvest Moon? Is it Animal Crossing? It's both.Indeed, it's the community/connected element that really interests Tag. In the traditional mobile sector, connecting two gamers is a nightmare because there's fragmentation at every level, from the handsets to the networks. With iPhone, you've got one device and generally one network, although developers don't even have to worry about that because they can use HTTP. After Car Jack Streets, the studio's next big iPhone project – their biggest game yet – will be Astro Ranch, which they've provocatively labeled 'a cross between Harvest Moon and Animal Crossing' without saying much more. The aim is to provide a completely device-agnostic experience – they want to see the thing go multi-platform, with gamers able to trade in-game items whatever they're playing on.Community is the key in a way it could never have been on a Java mobile title. The target audience is the Facebook crowd, casual gamers looking for new ways to socialise. "There's a very strong rationale behind giving it away for free, then charging a subscription and including micro-transactions... we're going to see massive growth with that on iPhone" says Farley, later namechecking Korean subscription mega-hit,KartRider. It's definitely a technical possibility – last August,Exit Gamesbrought its multiplayer gaming service, Neutron, to iPhone – this supports in-game micro-transactions. It could be iPhone gaming's big thing.Farley gives me a brief demo of the game. The idea is that you're setting up a ranch on some weird alien planet. You need to harvest crops, but also nurture various strange creatures including three-headed giraffes and giant pigs. The team is also including action elements to make use of the accelerometer – you can, for example, go down to the river and pan for gold by shaking your handset. The visuals are quaint, bright and simple – Harvest Moon, in other words.Tag is not revealing much more about the title, but it has still managed to drawinterest from Wired… and Apple. The latter is a vital element of App Store success – currently, games live or die by the chart position achieved in the first few weeks on sale, and a slot in Apple's Featured section means a massive boost in early downloads.The Imp: based on the cult animation, also produced in Scotland.But it's early days on the project. Astro Ranch is a major undertaking and Farley is looking for a publisher to take some of the financial pressure off. In the meantime, there's Car Jack Streets, plus a whole range of other side-projects, including work-for-hire and offbeat licenses. Tag has actually been out buying franchises for itself, penning deals to convert successful PC casual titles likeGranny in Paradiseand Zuma clone,Tumblebugsto mobile (Java hasn't been completely abandoned yet, but Tag doesn't really consider it a lead platform anymore - certainly not for original IP). The studio has also secured the mobile rights to cult animated series,The Imp, producing a cool-looking monochrome adventure. And in the future, there's talk of Xbox Live and WiiWare development.Right now, it's hard to get Farley off the subject of iPhone. "With traditional mobile there's no real kind of player community – people play, but they don't want to talk about it, it's not an experience that's really particularly involving. But with Apple, you've got this manic fan club – they love Apple, they want to talk about Apple all day – iPhone is an extension of that. Plus, the fact is, these games are far more involving, so there's a very active community. And word of mouth is important – especially in those first few days. You want reviews, you want people blogging about your games… For us, it's interesting because we're really marketing for the first time, directly to the gamer. For the first time, we feel our destiny is in our own hands, and it's great."
Plans to halt the flood of illegal filesharing among British internet users have hit a major stumbling block after the government's consultation process failed to find consensus among ISPs, content owners and internet companies as to how to tackle the issue.Internet companies and content owners alike dismissed the government's preferred option of an industry-wide code of conduct backed by Ofcom's oversight – nicknamed co-regulation – as either going too far or not being radical enough.The flood of differing opinions received by the Department for Business Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (BERR), which were published yesterday, throws the spotlight firmly upon the Digital Britain review being carried out by Lord Stephen Carter.The communications minister said earlier this week that one of the five major areas that his review, the first part of which will be published later this month, will cover is the creation of a "world-class regime" for intellectual property protection.But the responses received by BERR, which carried out the exercise as a result of the Gowers review of intellectual property, show just what a difficult task Lord Carter faces in trying to knit together a workable scheme for protecting copyrighted material from internet pirates.In its original consultation document the government's preferred plan was co-regulation, which consists of a voluntary code of practice dealing with the treatment of intellectual property, combined with "high level regulatory oversight" – probably by Ofcom. Underlying the plan is an obligation placed on the ISPs that they must work with copyright holders to tackle repeat offenders.Announcing the publication of the responses to the consultation, BERR acknowledged that "there was a marked polarisation of views between the rights holder community and consumers and the ISPs over what action should be taken"."There was a degree of consensus that any solution must involve the provision of new legal sources of attractive content and the need for education on the importance of copyright in the wider economy," BERR said.The ISPs seem to have been particularly vociferous in their calls for the content industry to come to its own rescue by producing viable legitimate filesharing, streaming and downloading services.In one of the most forthright submissions, Orange said it "does not accept that it has any existing legal obligation ... to assist in the enforcement of private legal rights", adding that it is a "mere conduit" – the defence upon which the ISPs have relied for some time."A fundamental flaw in the preferred regulatory option is that it seeks to cut the court – or any other independent review – out of the process and install the ISP as the arbiter of private rights as between the rights holders and users," it said."Orange fails to see how a proper regulatory regime could even contemplate the imposition of the costs of enforcing private rights on innocent third parties – namely ISPs and consumers – which would be a courageous political move."BSkyB, meanwhile, said "an ISP is not and should not be the arbiter of whether the content accessed by their customers is lawful or not", it is up to the courts to decide.Sky, which is the UK's fourth largest broadband provider, instead proposed that there be detailed evidence and analysis of the problem and then an education and awareness campaign. It also recommended "effective and concerted action" by rights holders against infringers through the courts, "supported where possible by ISPs" as well as the development of legitimate filesharing services.The BBC had similar points to make. It said it "believes that it is only by a combination of steps including education and awareness and alternative, compelling legitimate services, as well as actions against the worst offenders (provided they can be correctly identified) that will overcome the problem".In its submission, the BBC said it believes education and compelling services are the way forward but there must be a legal "backstop" although the broadcaster is "not minded" to support an entirely new raft of legislation."Instead, the BBC believes that by working together with a broad industry group including ISPs and other distributors of content, many of the problems facing the television industry can be addressed without the need for substantial new legislation?," it said.The BBC also called for the scope of the government's investigations to be wider so that it includes user-generated content sites such as YouTube and MySpace where copyrighted material is often posted.Unsurprisingly, the British Video Association – which represent the interests of publishers and rights owners of pre-recorded video home entertainment – said the government's plan should be strengthened so that the "underlying obligation" placed on the ISPs to protect copyright should be a regulatory requirement, to prevent any ISPs opting out."We are attracted to the underlying concept of co-regulation put forward by government," added the Motion Picture Association. "Voluntary agreements would have been preferred, but it is amply clear that there is no light at the end of that tunnel. Government intervention is required."The BPI, which represents the UK music industry, said in its submission: "We have long held that it is the combination of informing consumers about the impact of copyright infringement, continuing to develop new digital music services and increasing enforcement against illegal activity which will be the most effective approach in tackling illegal filesharing."Several of the rights holders suggested technical solutions to the problem of illegal filesharing. In its submission, however, BT shot these down, not least because some of them would breach data protection rules."There is no single silver bullet technique which could be applied to deal with the perceived peer to peer problem accurately and proportionately," BT said. "Applying a combination of techniques will not do so either. Unauthorised peer to peer filesharing of copyright material is fundamentally a market issue which needs to be addressed through a range of commercial means."
Lord of the Rings: Conquest, the first "big" game of the year, is released today. But sadly you needn't rush out and spend your Christmas vouchers on this one. I know I shouldn't have got excited. Sneaking it out in mid January was a bad sign from the start - the first month after Christmas normally reserved for Wii shovelware and budget re-releases. The recently released demo didn't help either. But still I held out hope, partly because of nostalgic affection for developer Pandemic'sStar Wars: Battlefrontgames. Oh dear.Ok, first up Lord of the Rings isn't *that* bad. As any Dynasty Warriors/hack n' slash fan will tell you there is a lot to be said for button-bashing mayhem.  And in short doses at least the sword-swinging or archery is mindless enough entertainment. Plus the excellent musical score and film clips give the game a welcoming sheen. Unfortunately the bland graphics let the side down – don't use this game to show off your new Xbox or PS3. But repetitive gameplay is the problem.So how does it play? Two sides with four different classes (scout, archer etc) battle it out over some famous Tolkein landmarks. Different classes add some variety – scouts can sneak around undetected before attacking from behind, warriors swing fiery swords, mages cast spells…yes, all the clichés – but this is very much a free for all, as each team fights for the control points on the map.  Clearly the game was designed for online play, but my experiences so far suggest that you should expect some lag and a general lack of polishOffline the game feels much like Star Wars Battlefront, with single player feeling like a dry run for multiplayer. Even casual players will be able to work through the main one player campaign in a few hours.Star Wars Battlefront was impressive 4 or 5 years ago when online console gaming was new. But things have moved on and Lord of the Rings Conquest feels almost retro in its lack of online features.Tolkein fans may get some initial enjoyment – if they can get over some of the non-canon events in the game – but gamers generally are better off working through 2008's release deluge rather than diving into Middle Earth.Anyone else played yet?
"I was down at the New Amsterdam, starin' at this yellow-haired girl..."My cocktail of feelings as I stood in the crowded Las Vegas nightclub on Friday of last week was hard to break down. Perhaps one part deja-vu, to one part heartbreakingly nostalgic, to one part trapped, to two parts what in the name of sweet Jesus am I doing here?"Mr Jones strikes up a conversation with a black-haired flamenco dancer."Deja vu, certainly. It was, after all, the second time in a month that I'd heard someone singing a live rendition of Mr Jones by theCounting Crows. The first time, regular readers of this column may recall,was in Reykjavikjust before Christmas when, after a night out on the BrennivÌn, Brian Suda and I convinced an Icelandic reality show contestant to add the song to his scheduled set list of heavy metal covers. The results were predictably, but somehow delightfully, weird."You know, she dances while his father plays guitar..."As for the heartbreaking nostalgia, I forgot to mention last time that the Counting Crows were – probably still are – the favourite band of a particular ex-girlfriend of mine. An ex-girlfriend  who frequently made it clear during our relationship that if the band's lead singer was to so much as glance at her, she would dump me like a hot shit-covered potato and retire with all haste to his hotel room for the rest of her life. The relationship ended epically badly even by my standards of epic badness, to the point where – unless I'm off my face drunk in Iceland – the merest note of one of their songs is enough to make me want to throw myself off a bridge."...and so, she's suddenly beautiful...."And I was certainly trapped. Whereas in Iceland I was standing at the back of a bar, this time I was right at the front, pressed hard against the low stage and unable to move in any direction. The room was full to bursting point and I was wedged in so tightly that escape was impossible. And as if all that wasn't weird enough, on this occasion, rather than being serenaded by a bald Icelander, the person doing the singing – standing right on the edge of the stage,not two feet in front of me– was Adam Duritz, the lead singer of the Counting Crows. My one-time cooler, richer, more talented nemesis himself.Which just leaves the question of what in the name of sweet Jesus I was doing there?I'd flown into Vegas from San Francisco the previous day, ostensibly to find out what the buzz was at this year's Consumer Electronics Show but really in the hope of topping my epic Vegas trip last year when Michael Smith and I managed to crash a party filled with800 toga-wearing hairdressers. Given that the conference overlapped with the AVN Adult Entertainment Expo, my hopes for decadence were high.Not wanting to waste any party time, and mindful of the fact that I didn't actually have a conference pass, I had come up with a brilliant plan. Rather than actually spending hours trudging around the exhibitor booths, attending press conferences or watching the keynote presentations, I would instead simply hit up a few of the after-parties and ask other attendees what the big exciting news was. The wisdom of the crowds, right?Luckily, I'd flown in from San Francisco on the same plane asSarah Lacywho'd invited me to a party she was co-hosting that night along withFrank Gruber,Brian SolisandZappos. With about 700 people on the guestlist – mostly web industry folks – I figured I'd easily find people who could pass on the main conference buzz, leaving me two whole days and nights to party without worrying about work. Unfortunately, what I had failed to take in to account is that CES is a gadget conference and not a web conference and so almost none of the web folks in the room had bothered to make it down to the convention centre. In fact, CES is sonota web conference that I overheard one of the guys from Twitter complaining that he'd found it difficult to register because wasn't even a tick-box on the registration form that described his industry sector.With no CES insight in sight, there was nothing else to do but close my notebook for the night and focus on the partying. Partying which ended at the Palazzo at about 2am with three ice buckets full of champagne and the amazing sight of a couple of dozen geeks rocking out to M.I.A  surrounded by a gaggle of bemused Vegas party girls.By night two, I was starting to get twitchy. I still had no idea what was going on at the conference and I was rapidly running out of decadence time. According to the buzz on Twitter, there was only one party worth going to that night, and once again it was sponsored by Intel. Held at the Luxor's LAX nightclub, the party would bring together thousands of CES attendees – almost none of them web folk. Finding stories from inside the convention centre would be a piece of cake. My only problem – aside from learning that the guest stars were my ex-girlfriend's favourite band – was how to get inside.The party was due to start at 7.30 and by 7.15 I was almost out of ideas. Despite spending the day emailing every contact I knew who might be able to help, an entry wristband remained as elusive as a Wi-Fi connection at aFrench web conference. Dejected, I slumped down at one of the Luxor's many bars, ordered myself a rum and Coke, and started tapping out a few final desperate emails on my BlackBerry. 7.30 came, then 7.45 ... still no replies. It was hopeless. I was beaten. And then as if by magic..."Hey!"It was Sarah. "Oh, hi" I mumbled, "what you up to?""I'm just on my way to dinner, you?""Trying to work out how to crash the Intel party.""Are you kidding? The Counting Crows one? Why would anyone want to see the Counting Crows?""Actually, they were my ex-girlfriend's ... never mind.""Well, you can have my wristband if you like."She reached into her purse and pulled out a neatly folded strip of paper. I could have hugged her – but that would have wasted valuable seconds. It was almost eight o'clock and the Counting Crows were due on stage at nine – I only had an hour of mingling time left. There was no time to lose.Fast forward half an hour and my work was done. With a single lap of the crowded club, I'd spoken to half a dozen of the attendees and had scribbled a list in my notebook under the heading "everything you need to know about CES 09". Here, verbatim, is the list...• The conference feels pretty busy, but only because most stands were booked a year ago. In reality, most companies have only sent key staff to Vegas rather than entire teams. Everyone worried about their jobs.• Wireless electricity based onbeaming heat across the roomis super cool (no pun intended) but nowhere near ready to be unleashed on the public.• Microsoft really screwed up theWindows 7 beta launch.• If you likecool televisions, CES will make you shit yourself.• Palm Pre• PALM PRE•PALM PRE!!!Ah yes, the Palm Pre Smartphone. The conference highlight that everyone – absolutely everyone – wanted to talk about. Apart from being a beautiful thing to behold, combining the multimedia possibilities of the iPhone with the not-having-a-fucking-annoying-virtual-keyboardiness of the BlackBerry, it also boasts the WebOS operating system. In short, WebOS makes developing applications for the device as easy as building a website. Between the aesthetics of the device and the openness of the platform, even iPhone owners I spoke to were considering trading up. If you can make Apple fans think about switching platforms, you know you've created something amazing.And so that was that – in just half an hour my entire week's work was done, leaving the whole of the next day and night free for fun. I headed for the door. And I almost made it. Unfortunately, just as I was passing the stage, I ran into Frank Gruber, Sarah's party co-host. The room had really started to fill up in anticipation of the Counting Crows, so Frank was saving himself a spot right at the front of the stage. Given that he'd been jointly responsible for ensuring I could drink for free all of the previous night, I figured the least I could do was to go to the bar and get him a drink. By the time I'd made it back, forcing my way through the crowd with the drink held above my head, the club had filled to capacity. And no sooner had I arrived, than the stage lit up and the whole crowd surged forward, pinning me to my spot."Sha la la la la la la la."But still, as the Counting Crows worked their way through aset-listconsisting almost entirely of my ex's favourite songs, each of them sungstraight into my faceby the man she'd have left me for in a heartbeat, I couldn't help but smile. I still had a whole 24 hours still left in Vegas – 24 hours which, as it turned out, may or may not have involved a weird party full of porn stars and geeks, a dive bar where the specialty of the house was "Ass Juice", a huge crowd of angry punks and a whole load of thrown bottles and chairs.Those 24 hours would make one hell of a story, but you know what they say: what happens in Vegas ...... I'm saving for my next book.• Paul Carr is author ofBringing Nothing To The Party: True Confessions of a New Media Whore. He blogs atpaulcarr.com.
What's your favourite piece of technology?I've just got it – an MSI Wind netbook. It's one of those little PCs, and all the others are based on it. It's got a 160GB drive and an extended six-cell battery. I trained as a network engineer, so I've got a techy background and letters after my name – MCP, which is Microsoft Certified ProfessionalHow has it improved your life?Well it hjust means I can take it wherever I want. It's got a little 10in screen on it, and it's future proof with the draft-end networking – the new wireless networking.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I've just got it, so I haven't used it yet. I've got a Sony Vaio which I'm using at the moment. I used to have Macs, but went to PC when I went over to network engineering because that's what most people use.What additional features would you add if you could?It could give me a finger massage, I suppose. But it's got everything on it I could want, to be honest. The battery life is about five or six hours, which is really good.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Yes, without a doubt. These days, everything's obsolete in about eight months.What one tip would you give to non-netbook users?Don't get one if you don't want one – you need to be pretty geeky to use one.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Probably nerd – definitely not a luddite, absolutely not. I think that we should embrace all technology as it comes along, and people who don't, I just don't understand.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my car – I don't want to say what it is, because I don't want anyone trying to nick it. But they'd have quite a job, because it's got a Cat One alarm on it, plus an immobiliser and a tracker. I don't have bulletproof windows, though. Not yet ...Mac or PC?Both. When you're networking, you have to deal with both.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played list?It's one I've written, calledMad Mum– I wrote it while working on the remake of The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin.Will robots ever rule the world?Yeah, without a doubt. Isn't Gordon Brown a robot?What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'd like a Tesla car, so I don't have to go to the petrol station any more – I could probably put in a wind turbine to charge it. A big one.•Perry Bensonstars in Somers Town, out now on DVD
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
OK, Twitter. We get it. Once again, you have proved yourself a worthy adversary of traditional media. As television news channels scrambled for information about theUS Airways plane that crashed into the Hudson River, users were sending out photos, emergency phone numbers and details of the accident.Janis Krums of Sarasota, Florida was on a ferry that was assisting in rescue efforts when hesent a photo to Twitter from his iPhone.HisTwitter status read:"There's a plane in the Hudson. I'm on the ferry going to pick up the people. Crazy."This isn't the first instance where the micro-blogging site beat traditional news sources to the punch. Minutes after theMumbai terrorist attacks,witnesses flooded Twitter with first-hand accounts of the carnage.UPDATE: The disaster drove so muchtraffic to TwitPic that the service struggledto cope. TwitPic's Noah Everett said the site was "getting hammered". Maybe TwitPic will need its ownTwitter-esque Fail Whale.
There has been a lot of argument after last night's shockingmemofrom Apple boss Steve Jobs, but the prevailing mood has now been summed up by New York Times columnist Joe Nocera:It's Time for Apple to Come Clean.Jobs phoned Nocera last summer and called him a slimebucket. He says: "I said at the time that I knew I was being spun by Mr Jobs. But I didn't think I was being lied to. Now, I'm not sure what to think."Welcome to the club, Joe!One of the problems is that Apple has spent so long manipulating the press that nobody is quite sure who to believe. So far, CNBC's Jim Goldman -- previously regarded (not least byme) as having an inside track -- has taken most of the flak, with Dan Lyons, formerly Fake Steve Jobs, dishing it out on CNBC.In the video (in Charles's post,below), Lyons was asked: "Dan, do you think Apple has impaired its credibility permanently because of this particular issue?" He said, amongst other things:"In my mind, Apple never had much credibility. Anybody who's covered that company... There's two kinds of reporters that cover Apple, the kind who realise they're getting snowed and getting bullied and getting blocked out and realise that a lot of what they're being told is not true, and the other kind, who suck up in order to get access, and end up getting played and punked like your Valley bureau chief [Jim Goldman] has been played and punked by Apple."Later, Lyons added:"The guy who's running PR at Apple used to be the CNBC bureau chief, and your guy is now his assistant."Goldman just got shouted down on air inanother spatwith CNBC's Dylan Ratigan (above), with Ratigan trying to find out "whether the quality of the information we're getting out of Apple now is any better than what we were getting a week ago." Goldman says not, adding that one contact says Jobs "is in serious denial about his health circumstances" (asGizmodosaid, and Goldman denied). And the prospect of Jobs returning at the end of June "is in serious doubt."Ratigan cuts to the quick: "the quality of information we're getting from Apple is inconsistent at best and misleading at worst. Fair?" Goldman says: "Sad to say, I think that's fair."The problem is that stockmarket and analyst reaction has just proved that Steve Jobs's health matters, which is why Apple needs to tell the truth. As Nocera says:There are certain people who simply don't have the same privacy rights as others, whether they like it or not. Presidents. Celebrities. Sports figures. And, at least in terms of his health, Steve Jobs. His health has become a material fact for Apple shareholders. His vagueness about his health, his dissembling, his constantly changing story line — it is simply not an appropriate way to act when you are the most important person at one of the most high-profile companies in America. On the contrary: it is infuriating.It is, of course, perfectly possible that Jobs and Apple have been telling the truth the whole time, but their credibility is shot. And the habit of working through a small number of journalists who have been, basically, Friends of Apple may now prove counterproductive, because this story now looks like being driven by the previously-excluded majority.
You no doubtcaught the newsearly this year that US gamers collectively spent more time with their PlayStation 2 units than any other console - according to Nielsen ratings. Now SCEA's director of hardware marketing, John Koller, has beentalking to Gamasutraabout the continued importance of the aging machine in the manufacturer's ongoing plans. He reckons sales - which just hit 50 million in the states - are being kept strong by social gamers, sports gamers and lower income families.A brief look at the PS2 release schedule, though, makes for uninspiring reading - Monster Jam: Urban Assault anyone? At least Atari is bringing Ghostbusters over, while Activision has X-Men Origins. And... erm...We've probably done this before, but what the heck, I'm in the middle of a couple of huge features for the blog that won't be finished today, so in the meantime - what back catalogue PS2 titles would you recommend to a new PS2 user? Bear in mind the target demographics, and also the fact that PS3 and Xbox 360 have summarily raised expectations in terms of visuals. Which games canreallystand up to mainstream scrutiny today? Is there anything you're still playing - not through weepy-eyed nostalgia, but because it genuine still does the business?I'm going for Guitar Hero, Burnout 3, Ico, Okami and God of War - not all of them are 'social' or 'casual' but if you've only spent £80 on the console you might be willing to chance a few quid on an experimental purchase...
"How Big is Downadup? Very Big,"claims Mikko Hyppönen, chief research officer at anti-virus company F-Secure. His colleague Toni Koivunen estimated "2,395,963 infections worldwide. This figure is conservative; the real number is certainly higher." It's added another 1.1m since then.Downadup/Conficker exploits a bug that was patched last October in Microsoft Security Update MS08-067, so it's a good idea to make sure you have this installed. (Unusually, Iblogged to warn youto install it.)The neat thing about Downadup is the way it "phones home". As Hyppönen explains:It uses a complicated algorithm which changes daily and is based on timestamps from public websites such as Google.com and Baidu.com. With this algorithm, the worm generates many possible domain names every day.Hundreds of names such as: qimkwaify .ws, mphtfrxs .net, gxjofpj .ws, imctaef .cc, and hcweu .org.This makes it impossible and/or impractical for us good guys to shut them all down — most of them are never registered in the first place.However, the bad guys only need to predetermine one possible domain for tomorrow, register it, and set up a website — and they then gain access to all of the infected machines. Pretty clever.On the other hand, anybody can register one of the unused domains and gain access to all of the infected machines. Pretty dumb. However, everyone will sit by and watch the infections happen, because we can't interfere: unauthorised use of a PC may even be illegal. It's like watching a small child wandering onto a motorway….Downadup can also spread by using an autorun file on a USB memory stick, so if you autorun thumb drives on an unpatched machine, you could be vulnerable.Microsoft's Malware Protection Centerhas a nice diagram (above)Microsoft has also added detection to its free MSRT removal tool, availablehere.According to F-Secure, most of the infected PCs are in China (38,277), then Brazil and Russia. The UK (1,789) is well down the list.Almost all the infections are of Windows XP machines and, as Microsoft notes, plenty of corporate customers (who are usually not using AutoUpdate) have been caught. F-Secure says:A very large part of that traffic is coming from corporate networks, through firewalls, proxies, and NAT routers. Meaning that one unique IP address that we see could very well be 2,000 infected workstations in real life.Even 10m infections is small beer when you have a billion Windows PCs in the world. But if each user can be engineered into paying for fake antivirus software -- which is what Downadup/Conficker does -- then it offers a significant payback.
One in five users of MySpace and Facebook have admitted they use the websites to flirt, according to new research on US social networking trends.A report by the Pew Internet and American Life Project also found that the number of adults using social networking sites in the US has quadrupled in the past three years, with 35% accessing profiles on social networking sites like MySpace, Facebook and LinkedIn.Pew's research suggests that 22% of MySpacers and 22% of Facebook users canvassed for the study confess to using the sites to flirt, while 27% use them to promote their work.Most networking activity, around 89%, is focused on contacting existing friends, while 57% use sites to make plans with friends and only 49% use them to make new contacts.The report also showed that although 65% of teenagers in the US use social networking sites, they are outnumbered by adults, who account for far more of the overall population.Though younger people are far more likely to register, the Pew results suggest far greater potential for social networking sites targeted at users in their late 20s and older with use increasing from just 8% since February 2005.Pew found that 75% of US adults aged 18-24 use social networks, 57% of adults aged 25-34, and 30% aged 35-44. The results also showed that sites such as MySpace were far more popular for socialising than for professional contacts, with just 6% of those surveyed saying they used business social networking site LinkedIn.The survey said 50% of respondents had a MySpace profile and 22% were on Facebook. Recent data from comScore shows Facebook closing the gap with MySpace in the US in terms of registered users, though it has already overtaken MySpace as the most popular social networking site in the UK.MySpace users were more likely to be female, black or Hispanic and had a median age of 27. Facebook users tend be older with a university degree and male, around 26, while LinkedIn users were mostly white men with college degrees around the age of 40. These results will be seen as good news for LinkedIn, indicating it has a more wealthy demographic that will appeal to its advertisers.Pew's senior research specialist, Amanda Lenhart, said that for younger web users, social networking is now a mainstream experience. There needs to be a critical mass of take up among a user's friends to make the social networking experience worthwhile, she added, and it is easier for teenagers because their friends are more likely to be online.Lenhart also said there was little evidence that niche sites had made much of an impact on general social networking use, with MySpace, LinkedIn and Facebook dominating the Pew results. Niche sites, such as Black Planet, Orkut and even the dating site Match.com were mentioned by some of those surveyed but Lenhart described these as part of the "very long tail", barely making a dent on mainstream social networking usage."This technology is very sticky, and people that really love it use it a lot. As a society, across the US and Europe and all over the world there is some incredibly innovative new technology that enables us to communicate with each other, though we'll have to see whether these take time away from these social networking sites or enables us to interact in a different way", she added.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Dan Lyons, the journalist formerly known as Fake Steve Jobs - before he gave up that gig last summer, because of his worries that Real Steve Jobs was seriously ill - had a hell of a (verbal) fight with Jim Goldman on CBNC yesterday as the "Steve Jobs rather more ill than a week ago" story broke.Lyons has consistently said that Apple twists its PR, especially when it comes to Jobs and his health. "Imagine if any other CEO pulled bullshit like this", as he forthrightly put it in July:Imagine [Steve] Ballmer [of Microsoft] appeared in public having lost an incredible amount of weight, looking seventy years old and about one hundred and twenty pounds. Imagine that Ballmer's flacks at first said he'd had a "common bug," but when nobody bought that line (since it was absolutely totally ridiculous) they came back and said he'd been on the South Beach diet, or the vegan version of the Zone, and then when that didn't fly they said that it wasn't anyone's business why Ballmer looked like shit, and when that didn't work they lined up some "sources" to leak word that ooooh, yeaaaaah, you know come to think of it we just remembered that Ballmer underwent some pretty hairy surgery a while back and then developed a pretty hairy infection, and then, when the hacks still wouldn't back off, Ballmer called a business columnist out of the blue, opened by insulting him, and then said he wanted to answer the columnist's questions — but only off the record.The latter being a reference toJobs's call to Joe Nocera of the New York Times, who in late June was researching a piece trying to detail what was happening with Jobs - who called him, swore at him (on the record) and then spoke to him on condition the conversation remained off the record and somehow assured Nocera that his condition was not a reoccurrence of the neuroendocrine tumours that were diagnosed in 2003.And then we come to the events of the past couple of weeks. Gizmodo wrote a piece at the end of Decembersuggesting Jobs's health was "declining rapidly"and that plans were being made for a succession. Gizmodo said it had a source who had been "100% correct" in previous cases.But Goldman then went on CNBC and said that he'd been told byhissources at Apple that Jobs was fine. Dandy. All these rumours were rubbish.And then camethe news last night(UK time) that Jobs will be out until at least June. Cue Lyons and Goldman, together for perhaps last time on CNBC. Why? Because according to Silicon Alley Insider, Lyons has been banned from the channel as a result. (There's no confirmation at present from CNBC that this is the case;Lyons's blog, last updated a week ago, is silent on the matter.)Goldman himselfblogs that Jobs's and Apple's sudden change of information just won't wash:Sophisticated tests showed Jobs he was suffering a hormone imbalance. And only a week later, he admits that something happened in these intervening days that showed him his health-related issues are more complex than he originally thought. Come on. Forgive my skepticism. That seems disingenuous to me at best; dishonest at worst. It's tantamount to fiduciary, ethical and financial whiplash.The fact is, late last week I spoke to two well-known tech industry executives, both of whom are very close to Jobs, and one of whom had been speaking to Jobs regularly up until a couple of months ago. Neither has an axe to grind, and neither needs to manipulate Apple stock to make more money. Trust me when I tell you that both have plenty. What struck me was that both felt compelled to come to me to tell me that they had "serious misgivings" about the state of Jobs' health. One said, based on his contact with Jobs personally, that he was in "serious denial" about just how bad the circumstances had become.It looks like only time will tell.
What a superbly contradictory idea: a game that plays itself. No, not in the vein of thePassively Multiplayer Online Gameor otherAmbient Gamingexperiences in which you are actually playing the game while doing other things, but a game that literally plays itself before you eyes.Some might call that a movie. Shigeru Miyamoto, however, calls it Nintendo's latest patent.Described byKotaku, the patent outlines a hints system aimed at assisting casual gamers through games more complex than Dr. Kawashima:The solution would turn a game into a full-length cut scene of sorts, allowing players to jump into and out of the action whenever they wanted. But when played this way, gamers would not be able to save their progress, maintaining the challenge of completing a game without skipping or cheating. It would also allow players to bring up in-game hint videos and skip directly to particular scenes in games.But what would compel a casual gamer to do that? If they see their little character hacking, slashing, puzzling and generally doing some challenging things, they may be too intimidated to jump back in. Perhaps a tutorial mode, or some kind of on-screen indication of how the virtual player is winning, would support this hint system. Additionally, this could be a good way of showing concerned parents the content of the games their kids are playing.
Google is scaling back in a number of areas and cutting 100 jobs as the internet giant begins to feel the impact of the recession.The company announced yesterday that it would be laying off recruitment staff, shutting three engineering offices and closing down a number of projects as it looks to slim down.Among the Google services affected by the cutbacks are mobile social network Dodgeball, messaging site Jaiku and web bookmarking service Notebook – as well as offices in Texas, Norway and Sweden.Jobs are also being cut in Google's human resources department, as a result of the company's decision to slow its expansion.Google's incredible growth in recent years has resulted in the expansion of its workforce  from just more than 3,000 at the time of its launch on the New York stock exchange in 2004 to a current total of around 20,000.But with the tightening economy, the company said that it was reducing the number of new recruits and HR staff."Given the state of the economy, we recognised that we needed fewer people focused on hiring," said the company's vice-president of people operations, Laszlo Block, in a statement on Google.Although Block said that the company had already cut back on contracts with external recruitment services, the changes did not go far enough."After much consideration, we have with great regret decided that we need to go further and reduce the overall size of our recruiting organisation," he added.The job cuts are not Google's first, but they are a signal that even a seemingly unstoppable internet giant can be affected by the economic downturn.As part of yesterday's announcements, 70 workers in Austin, Trondheim and Lulea were told that their offices would be shut down and encouraged to move to other Google facilities instead.The closure of Google services was signalled by its chief executive, Eric Schmidt, late last year, when he said that he wasplanning to improve focusand cut back on "projects that haven't really caught on and aren't really that exciting".Dodgeball and Jaiku were both hotly tipped services that combined social networking, instant messaging and mobile phones, but they appear to have become dead ends since Google acquired the startups, and will close within two months.The company bought Dodgeball in 2005, but founders Dennis Crowley and Alex Rainert became disillusioned with the progress the website was making under its new owners andquit Google last year.Jaiku creator Jyri Engestrom, meanwhile, said that he intended to open source the project and hand it over to the community of users to keep it alive."If nobody needs the service, probably there won't be development,"he said. "But if people want to use it and improve it, they have the opportunity to do both."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
The future leadership of the Apple computer empire was unclear last night after its chief executive, Steve Jobs, took six months' medical leave to tackle deteriorating health.Nine days after reassuring staff and investors that he had nothing more than  a hormonal imbalance, Jobs stunned the technology community by disclosing that his medical issues were "more complex" than he initially thought.In an email to staff, Jobs said Apple's chief operating officer, Tim Cook, was taking day-to-day charge of the business until the end of June. But Jobs said he would remain involved in "major strategic decisions" throughout his time out.On Wall Street, trading in Apple's shares was briefly suspended by the technology-dominated Nasdaq stockmarket while the company issued the news. When action resumed, the stock slumped by 9%.Jobs, 53, co-founded Apple in 1976 and is widely viewed as the driving force behind consumer electronics blockbusters such as the iMac, the iPod and the iPhone. His wealth is estimated at $5.4bn (£3.7bn) by Forbes magazine, ranking him as the world's 189th richest man.He had surgery for pancreatic cancer in 2004 and appeared to have beaten the disease. But Jobs' health has been the subject of intense speculation since he appeared at a technology conference in the summer looking gaunt and drawn.In his email to employees, Jobs said: "Unfortunately, the curiosity over my personal health continues to be a distraction not only for me and my family, but everyone else at Apple as well. In addition, during the past week I have learned that my health-related issues are more complex than I originally thought. In order to take myself out of the limelight and focus on my health, and to allow everyone at Apple to focus on delivering extraordinary products, I have decided to take a medical leave of absence until the end of June."Jobs' health is viewed as a critical issue by investors who are  increasingly nervous about the company's lack of disclosure. For months, Apple insisted that Jobs was in good health until last week's announcement that his recent weight loss was down to a "nutritional problem" caused by an easily treatable hormone imbalance.Jobs is answerable to a heavyweight board of directors which includes the former US vice-president Al Gore, the Google chief executive Eric Schmidt, and the head of Avon cosmetics, Andrea Jung. Questions were mounting last night over the company's corporate governance."People are going to be very frustrated with the way Apple handled this," said Gene Munster, a technology analyst at stockbroker Piper Jaffray.Munster added, however, that as Jobs' long-standing right-hand man, Cook was well qualified to fill in as chief executive: "He's very capable of running the company, although obviously, replacing the magic of Steve Jobs is impossible."With a market value of $75bn, Apple is one of the world's most successful technology firms. The business was established by Jobs and a friend, Steve Wozniak, in Jobs' parents garage in California.A university drop-out, Jobs has always eschewed the usual corporate uniform, typically preferring to appear in jeans and a polo-necked sweater. He is a vegetarian, Buddhist and a father of four.Under Jobs' leadership, Apple has stolen a march on its rivals through its simple, sleek, easy-to-use designs for music players, computers and phones. The company is highly profitable – it earned $4.8bn on sales of $32bn in the year to November.
Steve Jobs's decision to take time away from Apple to deal with his health problems has once again raised the question of who his long-term successor might be – but it has also left concerns about the company's approach.Although there are no laws governing whether a corporation's senior executives should disclose their health problems, some believe that the exalted status that Jobs holds within Apple means Wall Street deserves better information. And particularly puzzling is that the news comes just a week after Jobs – an intensely private man - surprised the industry bysuddenly revealing that his recent weight loss was the result of a hormonal problem.Jobs's initial health statement was made on the eve of Macworld Expo, an event at which the company traditionally unveils its latest products. The show has become massively important to Apple investors, with the company's stock leaping after the announcements by as much as 14% in recent years.That announcement helped quieten frantic speculation regarding his decision to pull out of the speech, but the short time between the two statements has left some confused by Apple's behaviour."They'll tell you the least they can tell you," Roger Kay, an industry analyst with Endpoint, told Associated Press. "They're trying to have it both ways, to protect their guy's privacy and feelings and at the same time somehow signal the market," said Kay.An Apple spokesman responded by referring toan email sent to Apple staff by Jobs, in which he said that he discovered the broader scope of his health problems "during the past week".Answering the questions about Jobs's long-term successor is no more straightforward.Several names have been mentionedas potential candidates, but for now the only hard signal is that his temporary replacement will be Tim Cook, the company's meticulous and demanding chief operating officer.Without more details, it is impossible to know how serious Jobs's latest illness is – but history would suggest that it is far from insignificant.His previous decision to relinquish control came only after an 18-month battle with cancer, which he had tried to treat with a homeopathic diet before finally agreeing to undergo surgery and hand over temporary control of Apple to someone else.Even at that point Jobs took just a few weeks off work - far less than the five months announced today.Apple pundit John Gruber,writing on his popular blog Daring Fireball, said that the latest development was "worrisome"."It's very difficult to read this any other way than that where Jobs says 'more complex', he means 'worse'."
I'm thinking of buying a new laptop but wondering if it might be best to wait. Do you think Windows 7 will require higher specs etc, as Vista did compared with XP?Ben ColeAny PC you buy today should have 2GB to 4GB of memory, which is enough for Windows Vista. The evidence so far is that Windows 7 uses less memory than Vista, and it uses the same drivers, so most newish PCs should run Windows 7 very comfortably (see this week's cover story). For preference go for 4GB of memory and 64-bit Vista. This version can exploit all the memory you can fit, and you will be able to upgrade to 64-bit Windows 7 without reformatting the hard drive.Whether it's better to wait depends on how urgently you need a new PC. I expect that once Microsoft has fixed a date for Windows 7's launch, it will offer free Win7 upgrades to new Vista buyers. If it doesn't, PC manufacturers could see sales slow down, and no one wants that.In general, of course, it's cheaper and easier to move to a new version of Windows when you buy a new PC. If you could get another nine months from your current system by spending up to £50 to upgrade either the memory or the graphics card, that might be worth considering.
I am unclear about the relative merits of dual and quad-core processors. Will the latter be less prone to obsolescence? Apart from handling images from a digital camera, my computing requirements are very modest.Denys VaughanIn theory, a processor with four cores should be twice as fast as one with two -- but this only applies if all four cores can be put to work. Most software has been written for single-core processors, and you only get the full benefit of multicore chips with intensive tasks that can exploit parallel processing. Video encoding and editing are great examples, and I'd expect some games to benefit.Digital photography is a borderline case. If you are using a professional program such as Adobe Photoshop to process large images, a quad-core PC should be better. For ordinary use, a dual-core machine will probably do about as well, run cooler, and cost less.In the future, of course, computing will move to PCs with four or more cores, but it will take a long time to convert most PC software. Dual-core machines with not suddenly become obsolescent.
Last week, you suggestedAnVir Task Managerto monitor your PC. I installed this and found that one of the monitoring functions displays the temperature, which was 33C. How accurate are these figures and is this in the normal operating range?Jo LynchIntel processors have an on-chip thermal diode that lets you find the temperature by measuring a voltage, and PCs may have extra sensors, so they know when to turn on fans. What's "normal" depends on the processor.Intel's websitelets you look up the specification of your CPU. Entering, say, P9600, and clicking for the spec sheet gives the thermal specification for this Core 2 Duo Mobile chip as 105C, which is hot. If a chip gets too hot, Intel's Thermtrip should kick in and turn it off. So, small variations in temperature are of no concern. It only becomes of interest if you're operating close to the Thermal Specification, which is more common with an overclocked processor.
I bought a Samsung NC10 netbook and it would be great to have a small portable printer to take with it when travelling. Looking around, my only choices are cheap but bulky inkjets, or expensive and overspecified portable photoprinters.Chris EvansThere's an emerging market for netbook printers, but not much supply. InJuly, I suggested the Canon Pixma iP90v and iP100 as replacements for the much loved oldCanon BJC-85portable colour bubble jet. However, in September, Brother bought Pentax's mobile printer business, so I'm hoping to see a Brother version of the PocketJet 3 Plus. This ultraportable thermal printer should be ideal, if it benefits from Brother's typically low pricing. In the meantime, I noticeExpansysis knocking out Pentax PocketJet 3's at £78.99.Backchat: Last week, I expressed the hope that Brother's takeover of Pentax's mobile printer business would lead to portable printers at more reasonable prices, and I linked to a PocketJet 3 Plus page at Expansys. Dr Trevor Turpin comments: "I think you'll find that the £78.99 only gets you the vehicle mounting kit - the printer is extra at £599!"(The price of this printer seems to be somewhat variable!)
I am looking for an easy-to-use and trouble-free program to convert 3GP files into AVI files and vice versa.Karl TeofilovicI usually useSuper ©for all the video conversions thatVDubcan't handle, and the version of Super © released on 5 January says it can input and output movies in the 3GP mobile phone format. But it's not the most user-friendly software, and you may find DVDVideoSoft'sFree 3GP Video Converterworth a look. There are paid-for alternatives, of course, such as theOJOsoft Total Video Converter.Later: Karl tried the DVDVideoSoft program and says: "I have used it a couple of times only, but so far I find it to work really well."
I am trying to find out who has sent me an abusive email using a pseudonym.David BosworthEvery email comes with headers which, although nowadays usually hidden,  include details of where it started and how it got to you. The first problem is to find the originating IP (internet protocol) address, which will be four groups of numbers separated by dots. A search for "How to read email headers" will bring up lots of sites that will help you do this. Next, go to a Whois site such asDomain Toolsand paste in the IP address to find out who owns it. The Whois record tells you who to contact about abuse. However, mail headers can be forged, and you are not likely to get very far unless you have a strong legal argument, or whatever. Even then, an email might have been sent from an internet café or another hard-to-track source.
Wait for Windows 7?I'm thinking of buying a new laptop but wondering if it might be best to wait. Do you think Windows 7 will require higher specs etc, as Vista did compared with XP?Ben ColeJS:Any PC you buy today should have 2GB to 4GB of memory, which is enough for Windows Vista. The evidence so far is that Windows 7 uses less memory than Vista, and it uses the same drivers, so most newish PCs should run Windows 7 very comfortably (see this week's cover story). For preference go for 4GB of memory and 64-bit Vista. This version can exploit all the memory you can fit, and you will be able to upgrade to 64-bit Windows 7 without reformatting the hard drive.Whether it's better to wait depends on how urgently you need a new PC. I expect that once Microsoft has fixed a date for Windows 7's launch, it will offer free Win7 upgrades to new Vista buyers. If it doesn't, PC manufacturers could see sales slow down, and no one wants that.In general, of course, it's cheaper and easier to move to a new version of Windows when you buy a new PC. If you could get another nine months from your current system by spending up to &pound;50 to upgrade either the memory or the graphics card, that might be worth considering.Dual or quad core?I am unclear about the relative merits of dual and quad-core processors. Will the latter be less prone to obsolescence? Apart from handling images from a digital camera, my computing requirements are very modest.Denys VaughanJS:In theory, a processor with four cores should be twice as fast as one with two - but this only applies if all four cores can be put to work. Most software has been written for single-core processors, and you only get the full benefit with intensive tasks that can exploit parallel processing. Video encoding and editing are great examples, and I'd expect some games to benefit. Digital photography is a borderline case. If you are using a professional program such as Adobe Photoshop to process large images, a quad-core PC should be better. For ordinary use, a dual-core machine will probably do about as well, run cooler, and cost less. In the future, of course, computing will move to PCs with four or more cores, but it will take a long time to convert most PC software.Portable printer wantedI bought a Samsung NC10 netbook and it would be great to have a small portable printer to take with it when travelling. Looking around, my only choices are cheap but bulky inkjets, or expensive and overspecified portable photoprinters.Chris EvansJS:There's an emerging market for netbook printers, but not much supply. In July, I suggested the Canon Pixma iP90v and iP100 as replacements for the much loved old Canon BJC-85 portable colour bubble jet. However, in September, Brother bought Pentax's mobile printer business, so I'm hoping to see a Brother version of the PocketJet 3 Plus. This ultraportable thermal printer should be ideal, if it benefits from Brother's typically low pricing. In the meantime, I noticeExpansys is knocking out Pentax PocketJet 3's at &pound;78.99.Hot chipsLast week, you suggested AnVir Task Manager to monitor your PC. I installed this and found that one of the monitoring functions displays the temperature, which was 33C. How accurate are these figures and is this in the normal operating range?Jo LynchJS:Intel processors have an on-chip thermal diode that lets you find the temperature by measuring a voltage, and PCs may have extra sensors, so they know when to turn on fans. What's "normal" depends on the processor. Intel's website lets you look upthe specification of your CPU. Entering, say, P9600, and clicking for the spec sheet gives the thermal specification for this Core 2 Duo Mobile chip as 105C, which is hot. If a chip gets too hot, Intel's Thermtrip should kick in and turn it off. So, small variations in temperature are of no concern.Converting 3GP filesI am looking for an easy-to-use and trouble-free program to convert 3GP files into AVI files and vice versa.Karl TeofilovicJS:I usually useSuper &copy;for all the video conversions that VDub can't handle, and the version of Super &copy; released on 5 January says it can input and output movies in the 3GP mobile phone format. But it's not the most user-friendly software, and you may find DVDVideoSoft'sFree 3GP Video Converterworth a look. There are paid-for alternatives, of course, such as theOJOsoft Total Video Converter. Later: Karl tried the DVDVideoSoft program and says: "I have used it a couple of times only, but so far I find it to work really well."Tracking an emailI am trying to find out who has sent me an abusive email using a pseudonym.David BosworthJS:Every email comes with headers which include details of where it started and how it got to you. The first problem is to find the originating IP (internet protocol) address, which will be four groups of numbers separated by dots. A search for "How to read email headers" will bring up lots of sites that will help you do this. Next, go to a Whois site and paste in the IP address to find out who owns it. The Whois record tells you who to contact about abuse. However, mail headers can be forged, and you are not likely to get very far.Backchat• Last week I claimed to have "a 1983 laptop and a 1985 desktop running Windows XP Pro", which prompted some amusing emails. I meant, of course, 2003 and 2005.• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor, atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk.
Daleks are just like you and meFor all the Doctor Who fans out there, an entertaining tale of Bringing Up Dalek. The broken nights, the constant demands ... and it was so obvious what sort of company Daddy Dalek would run.But I'd like the goat for the milkThe film 21 shows the "Monty Hall problem": three doors hide two goats and a car. You choose one; a different door is opened to reveal one goat. Should you change your choice? If so, why?The iPhone's connected to the ...If you have ageing relatives who need an explanation of what on earth this web 2.0 thing is, show them this.• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Atomic Floyd? I feel sure that I've got a few of their albums on vinyl somewhere in the garage. But no, it turns out that this is the brand name for another entrant into the luxury-priced in-ear headphones field. Apparently they're the collective brainchild of a team of designers from Nike, Adidas and Philips. Who, I'm guessing, like Blondie and Dark Side of the Moon.Now, you may think that any pair of headphones priced above &pound;20 - in fact anywhere above "free with your digital music player" - is wasted money. But given that these days most people's long-term experience of listening to music or other content comes through headphones while on the move, rather than hi-fi speakers in the home, there's a strong case to be made for spending money on good ones.The Atomic Floyd AirJax headphones that I tried retail for &pound;120. The cord isn't covered in the usual plastic; it's got a sort of fibrous feel, and is stiffer than the usual white cords that infest my life. And it has big "angel wings" of metal (titanium, to be exact) which loop over your ears to hold the earpieces in place.The stiffer cord should mean that it's less likely to become tangled (you can't tangle a stick) but as I discovered, the "angel wings" more than make up for that: put it all into a pocket without winding the cord around something, and you'll have a complete knot when you take it out.The wings too are a touch fiddly; I felt self-conscious putting them on (is this what women feel with earrings?). But it's worth it for the sound.Because it is all about the sound, isn't it? Which is tremendous. Even on AAC-encoded tracks, I was able to distinguish elements of songs that I had never noticed before. The reproduction was better than I'd heard from any other headphones.In fact, the reproduction was so good, and so absorbing, that the first time I tried these, on a train on the way home, I was rendered so oblivious that for the first time in three years of travelling up and down the line I missed my stop. That's got to be some sort of testament to quality.The headphones also come with a small accessory kit: an extender lead, a converter to a larger headphone jack, and even a tiny hex tool so that you can tighten up the ear loops when you've got them to the precise size you like.Are they worth &pound;120? If the quality of your music listening matters to you, then the sound quality is going to be everything you need. They're not noise-cancelling; they're sound-generating. If that's what matters to you, you won't care about people shooting funny looks at the hooks over your ears.Pros:Excellent sound, quality materials, useful add-onsCons:Pricey, metal ear loops get tangled in headphone cordatomicfloyd.com
The Home Office has achieved its self-imposed deadline of getting all 43 police forces in the UK to put up online crime maps. But are any of them any good?As reported by us last week (Police launch online neighbourhood crime maps, 6 January), the maps are intentionally limited. Simon Reed, the vice-chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said: "Our concern is that statistics released on a monthly basis may feed local criminal intelligence, leading to crime hotspots, and further exacerbate the public's fear of crime."The full list is on thePolice Forces website.Richard Allan, the chair of the government's Power of Information taskforce,wrote on its blogthat the maps should be seen as only a first step: "It should also be an objective of this process to create better availability and consistency of the underlying crime data sets so that other parties can innovate with their own versions of crime maps."Jo Wadsworth, news editor of the Croydon Advertiser, told the media website journalism.co.uk that the maps "don't give a particularly accurate reflection of true crime statistics in any one area. For instance, they don't include sexual assaults, which would certainly be one type of crime I would be very interested in learning what the rates are."Though the implementations are uneven in style, that will evolve, suggests Simon Dickson, a web developer for government departments. "Best practice will evolve, and we'll move steadily - maybe over two or three iterations - to a more consistent experience," he commented on the POI blog.Even so, a growing number of police forces in the US provide raw data about crimes that outside organisations can use to map crime locations. The Free Our Data campaign still maintains that doing so in the UK would be beneficial.• Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog.
I'm still fuming at reports from last week - including one in the Guardian - about claims that the online game World of Warcraft was "one of the top reasons for college dropouts in the US". After this 11 million-strong multiplayer game came under attack by a student adviser in Minnesota, the US Federal Communications Commission representative Deborah Taylor Tate took the bait and made it into an international story. To our discredit, we swallowed the line, and I'm utterly dismayed at the way it was handled.Stories such as this are so often based on supposition, no hard evidence and no contextual awareness. As I said on the Games blog, I don't think online games cause students to drop out any more than, say, binge-watching The Sopranos or hanging out at the local cafe making zines at four in the morning, wired on black coffee and spouting pretentious philosophical platitudes.Given the audience, it's unsurprising that many of our readers concur. pH101 argues: "Games may not be addictive, they may just be fun. And more fun than studying for exams."There is evidence that some people may lose track of their priorities when playing in games' problem-solving, social environments. Professor Mark Griffiths of Nottingham Trent University proposes that just under 7% of people in the UK are addicted to gaming. Not 7% of college students. Not 7% of gamers. Seven per cent of nearly 70 million people.Yet the Byron Review, the government's independent study of the potential dangers of digital entertainment, proposes that "there is a cultural judgment about excessive behaviour. In the context of video games, excess is looked upon as being a bad thing. In the context of, say, reading, it is conceived of as much more positive." This bias over-inflates the games-as-pariah myth, and thus they are unnecessarily charged in cases such as these.But what about the stories of kids playing themselves to death? Well, if someone had an aneurysm in front of the TV during Stars Compromising Their Credibility in Stupid Situations, you wouldn't blame reality TV for the unfortunate couch potato's untimely end (although in a just world you should). So why point the finger at computer games when a gamer pops his gasket? There are a similar number of people in the world who engage in gaming as watch brain-dead television. A percentage will meet their makers when they're enjoying their pastimes. For heaven's sake, sex has claimed its fair share of victims. Should we be decrying it?I refuse to live a life without gaming, television, coffee, cafes or sex. Haul me away, men in white coats. I've dropped out of society for good.
If the credit crunch is interfering with your plans to hit the slopes this winter, Shaun White Snowboarding: Road Trip might provide a tiny amount of solace.The latest in a line of snowboarding games bearing the stamp of the best-known pro-boarder is designed to work with the Wii Fit Balance Board, and therefore approximates the real-life boarding experience better than any previous game. Admittedly, more mature boarders will find the teen-oriented storyline irritating. But the control that the Balance Board brings is impressive, and it does force you to bend your knees and is hard on calves and upper thighs, just like a real snowboard.Every time you open a new resort (locations include Canada, Chile, the Alps and Japan), you're presented with challenges that test either your ability to nail tricks or to board accurately (by, for example, picking up trash). Plus there are boardercross races, and events on half-pipes and off big kickers. The graphics are mighty impressive for a Wii game – especially when you fall amid a faceful of virtual snow. But when you learn how to unweight for jumps, then chain tricks using judicious mid-air weight-transfer, proceedings become deeply satisfying.It won't teach a novice how to board, but it will help tone you up for the slopes – even five minutes' play will induce a sweat.
Yes - and no. On 11 November 2008, the volume of spam being sentdropped by as much as two-thirds following the closure of McColo, a hosting provider based in San Jose, California.According to those in the security industry, McColo had become a major "command and control centre" for spammers, controlling the actions of thousands, if not millions, of infected computers worldwide. The action followed investigations by security researchers who had found that McColo had become the preferred home for many botnets, according to an article in the Washington Post."It was like night and day," said Matt Sergeant, an anti-spam technologist with MessageLabs. "The second that they went offline, the drop started." MessageLabs, McAfee, Symantec and Arbor Networks - as well as other security firms - noted the drop, though the companies differed on the magnitude of the reduction, with estimates varying between 60% and 75%.Sadly, it seems that the spam that disappeared just before the holidays is now making its way back. "Today's stats show spam volumes are 35.9% down on what they were before 11 November, but rising back up," said Amanda Grady, senior business intelligence analyst at Symantec, who noted that the figures spike upwards at times. "As long as there is a profit motive for spamming, new spam operations will always spring up when existing spam operations are shut down."Before the McColo closure, Atrivo, an ISP based in California, went offline after its sole remaining upstream provider ceased to route its traffic. However the spam "clearing house" Spamhaus has now warned of "a ramp up in spamming of malware and hacking of websites to insert 'drive-by' infection code. A second downside is that any law enforcement investigations into the McColo-hosted criminals will have been sidelined."But more broadly, what about the recession? Does the economic downturn herald woe for the spammers too? "We have already seen spamming efforts suggesting ways to make money tied into the recession," said Grady. "Spammers are using subject lines in spam messages like, 'Survive the Recession: earn 500 dollars or more a week!' and 'I found you a new job [500+ a week]' to draw people into reading malicious offers."She said that while only 1 in 12.5 million people hit by a spam message click through, that is still enough to make the operation profitable. "Spammers are appealing more to peoples' emotions and financial situation with their offerings, with their 'work from home' offers and other scams. The content plays on the current situation: they will always try to tie in to current events."One area where security experts advise vigilance is social networking: increasingly sophisticated emails are mimicking messages from popular sites. And there seems to be an overlap of spam, malware and phishing, with all three elements combined in many attacks. Webmail also remains vulnerable to attacks, said Grady.
One of the best-hidden reading devices on the net is Amazon's "Upgrade", which has been going in one form or another since 2005 without anyone taking any notice of it - which is odd, because it almost offers readers the best of all possible worlds. Printed books and electronic texts are good for different things. Printed books are good for reading; electronic works for searching and annotating. You never run out of room in the margins on an ebook, whereas the books that I really love look as if they have been the victim of a methedrine-crazed medieval monk.Equally, there is no index in a printed book that will find the passage you know is in there somewhere as a parenthesis in a discussion of something entirely unconnected, which will be indexed, but not at all helpfully. One answer to this problem is to be the Dalai Lama, who through long years of training has the kind of memory that can remember where and in which library the scroll he wants is stored. But it's easier to use Amazon Upgrade.However, reading books on screen is pretty horrible, in every way that I have tried it. Nothing really matches up to good type on good paper, and it is most unlikely that a purely electronic text has been designed in the way that a book can be, so that every page pleases the eye; even when it could be possible to do so by using formats such as PDF. I spend almost all my working days reading on screen, and the relief that even a well-designed newspaper gives to the eyes is wonderful.So it was a shock, when ordering a couple of really obscure books from Amazon.com last week (one was about game theory in the Old Testament, and the other was stranger still) to be offered for a few dollars more a chance to get access to an electronic version of the text as well. Though this was sold as a chance to start reading immediately, without waiting for the courier to arrive, that doesn't seem to be what would be generally useful about it. Nothing beats printed paper as a way to discover and absorb what is in a book. But nothing beats a screen as the way to find it again later, and this is what the Amazon service offers.I don't suppose it can be terribly popular; otherwise one would have heard more of it. Even before the collapse of the exchange rate, $5.50 is quite a lot of money to pay for the chance to index a book that may have contained nothing worth remembering in the first place; and it is only really writers and scholars who need to be able to check their references properly. If you don't want to pay anything at all, there is the rival service from Google Books, which I have been using a lot in the past weeks to search books that I already own and have in my shelves; in some cases books that I have open in front of me as I type, but where I just can't find the passage that I know has to be there. But the Google Books snippet view is really tiny. For obvious reasons to do with copyright and theft it shows only a couple of lines around the search term and these are very often not the lines that contain the thing you want to reference.The Amazon Upgrade searches seem more generous and much more likely to apply to books in print and on sale, whereas Google's great strength is in works that are out of copyright (and thus unlikely to be editions that you actually own). The interesting thing about these services is that they reverse the process that everyone expected to happen, which would have made the electronic text primary and the printed book a secondary, temporary instantiation of it.People have been predicting for years that bookshops would gain print-on-demand facilities, so that the book you wanted would magically appear when you ordered it. But apart from the technical aspects, I don't see who gains from printing on demand except people who are trying to cut down on warehousing costs - oh, and Amazon, which is trying to monopolise the market.But the availability of full-text indexing of any book sold really does add something for any serious reader of non-fiction, and if the price were to come down a bit would, I think, be more celebrated as one of the few really good ideas of the past five years.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
When Dr Chris Lintott, a researcher in the department of physics at the University of Oxford, first considered launching a website to ask the public to help classify photographs of 1m galaxies, he assumed it would probably take three or four years to complete. Galaxy Zoo (galaxyzoo.org), launched in July 2007, was supposed to be a side project; instead it has turned into the biggest citizen-science experiment on the web.Galaxies can be classified as spiral, elliptical or merging (when two come together). The Sloan Digital Sky Survey, or SDSS (www.sdss.org), has images of nearly a million galaxies; what those images don't have in their raw form is the information about what class of galaxy is pictured.Lintott had hoped that each image would get 10 classifications, or "clicks", and that the public would prove able to classify galaxies accurately according to their features. Three weeks and 10m clicks later, he was proved right: the public is capable of classifying galaxies as well as, or even better than, professional astronomers. And quickly, too. "It was like being hit by a tidal wave," says Lintott.The images have now had more than 70m clicks in total, allowing Lintott and his team to go beyond simply sorting galaxies into spiral, elliptical or merging categories, into further research. "You can have confidence, as we can say, '100% of people think that's a spiral galaxy, so it's really, really spirally'," says Lintott.Human zooHis team was allocated precious time on the IRAM 30m radio telescope in southern Spain, and was easily able to select just 40 galaxies from the original sample to study, safe in the knowledge that the scientists had exactly what they needed.After Galaxy Zoo's initial success, Lintott wanted to take a closer look at merging galaxies. At 5pm one Tuesday he posted a spreadsheet listing a selection to the forums and asked members to take a look and email him the best. Then he went to the pub.One "Zooite", Richard Proctor, a telecoms consultant, spotted the spreadsheet and thought: "I can build a webpage to do that!" By the time Lintott logged back in, the web interface was already in use."What was going to be a quick little study turned into a much larger study of about 45,000 images," says Proctor. Each image has now had more than 25 clicks, with four particularly committed souls having seen every single one. The first academic paper about those merging galaxies has been submitted, andProctor is listed as a co-author.It's not the first time collaborative astronomy has proved a hit online. The Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (Seti) project created the most powerful distributed computer ever with its Seti@home project launched in May 1999, which used spare processing power on home computers to process data collected from a specific wavelength to see if aliens were trying to get in touch. It was used by 5.2 million people and offered, at its peak, 265 teraflops (a trillion calculations a second) of processing power.Similarly, Nasa's Clickworkers project in 2000-01, found that ordinary people were just as good as astronomers at identifying craters on Mars in photos.The biggest influence on Galaxy Zoo, however, is Stardust@home, where users search for tiny interstellar dust particles within images returned by the 2006 Stardust mission. Thousands of users have logged on to the site."Stardust@home was a real inspiration for us," says Lintott. "We thought, 'If 20,000 people will look for dust grains in their spare time, surely they will look at beautiful pictures of galaxies?'"But unlike those projects, where the task is set from the top down, the Galaxy Zoo community has its own ideas about what can be done with the SDSS data."Up until now," says Proctor, "the professional astronomers have come up with things that want classifying and we've classified them." But there are thousands of irregular galaxies - neither spiral nor elliptical - that the professionals don't have time to examine. So the community decided to do it themselves, drafting a list of questions and building a web interface to make classification easier."Once we've got some results," promises Proctor, "we'll publish them for everybody to use, and then see if we can find out anything useful. Given that the biggest study of irregular galaxies to date looked at around 150, and we've got 9,000, we must find something!"Lintott is supportive of the irregulars project: "They are doing everything professional astronomers would do," he says. "It's up there with any work I've done."It's not just the volume of research that can be done by collaborating with the public that's important to Lintott, but also the opening up of scientific research to anyone with a browser and a little time."By making the data available to everyone," he says, "whatever stage you are in your learning, you can do research."And a surprising cross-section of people are doing just that. Hanny van Arkel is a Dutch primary school teacher who discovered a strange object, now called Hanny's Voorwerp (Dutch for "object"), near a spiral galaxy. "I thought it was fun," she says of Galaxy Zoo, "but I didn't expect that it would become such a big part of my life. I've learned a lot and it's a good way of participating in science."Elisabeth Baeten, a Belgian secretary, is one of only four people who has seen every image in the galaxy merger project. "I also classify the irregulars," she says, "and in between I cruise the universe looking for asteroids and gravitational lenses."In future, it will be much easier for both scientists and enthusiasts to take part in such projects. Not only are Lintott and his colleagues finalising Galaxy Zoo 2, which will examine galaxies in much more detail, they are also building a platform that will allow any scientist to upload data and tap into the vast potential of the internet."Our users are clamouring for stuff to do," says Lintott. "The problem of having too much data to pay close attention to is not just an astronomical problem. It's astronomical in scale, but it's not just us."The new project will allow scientists to upload their videos of elephants, pictures of galaxies, or chemical structures, then specify what they want done with them. They can either use the provided templates, or customise their project. Lintott describes it as the scientific version of the popular blogging software WordPress.And there are many uses of such a platform. Nasa has high-quality images from the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, most of which are simply filed. And study of the pictures produced by this year's Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter will allow scientists to build a history of asteroid bombardment of the inner solar system."It's like Nasa does the map and we'll write the guide book," says Lintott.Indeed, it would be possible for anyone to upload data, including amateur astronomers. "More than a million separate observations a year are recorded by amateurs," says Lintott. "That's a huge pile of data that, at the minute, professionals slowly sort through, but we can hand that back to the amateurs to analyse."We may," he jokes, "just be putting ourselves out of a job."
Passport to securityThe National Identity Scheme is in a unique position to take advantage of the benefits of biometrics while being mindful of their limitations (Tigers use scent, birds use calls - biometrics are just animal instinct, 8 January). It is true that a single biometric used in isolation has serious limitations, which is why the NIS is using advances in biometrics to build on the existing excellent security features of the British passport.We plan to use all 10 fingerprints and facial biometrics to ensure someone can only enrol on the scheme once, thereby preventing multiple identities being established. However, this technology won't be used in isolation, combining biometrics with secure tokens (passport and ID cards), and effective business processes to ensure less chance of identity theft.Dr Duncan HineExecutive director, security and integrity, Home Office Identity and Passport ServiceMacworld: out of touchWith regard to the lack of an update to the Mac mini (No surprises at Apple's final Macworld, 8 January), the price and spec of this machine demonstrates how out of touch Apple is with the state of the economy. Prices start from &pound;391 for a machine with a "combo drive" (meaning it can read but not burn DVDs), 80GB of disk space and only 1GB of RAM. In the real world, you can get a Dell with twice the memory, 500GB of disk space, a DVD writer, a dedicated graphics card and a faster processor for &pound;329. Apple is clearly not interested in selling to people on a budget, and since there will be far more of those in the months to come, one hopes Steve Jobs will get a clue if the platform is to survive.Matthew SmithNew Walden• It looks like Apple compromised on the cost of tracks, but the big record companies have also seen that iTunes will probably remain the dominant player in the market.ippoippo.netWhich hard drive?Which? was mis-advising your readers (Before you sell your computer, smash the hard drive, says Which?, 8 January). The only true way to remove personal data from a hard drive is to overwrite it a couple of times. I know of experiments where they have blown up hard drives and still been able to recover data from it.Allister Dayby email• Smashing hard drives to prevent data theft could lead to thousands of useful, working PCs being put out of service.AtComputer Aidwe guarantee 100% data deletion to all donors, free of charge, using the world's leading data destruction software from Blancco. We professionally refurbish unwanted PCs for reuse in the developing world to provide another four years of use by schoolchildren, hospitals and communities.Louise RichardsCEO, Computer Aid International• Finding a good data-erase program that will securely overwrite and destroy any data from your hard drive isn't that difficult. If you plan to erase the data on your PC before disposing of it, read on: Computers 4 Africa has sent approximately 3,700 PCs to African schools. Visitwww.computers4africa.org.uk.Ida GayeComputers4Africa, MaidstoneBank on itKnitwareblogasks why Lloyds or Barclays aren't the authority on savings instead ofmoneysavingexpert.com(Letters and blogs, 8 January). It's not just about brands - the former aren't interested in you; only your money. MSE exists solely to give you a better deal and tell you (impartially) what is going on.Alan GentCheadleGood grammar for geeksJust because you may think you're editing for techies, geeks and nerds does not excuse poor English grammar. Your front-page headline should read: "Signed, sealed, delivered: by whom?".Andrew PapworthBillericay• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk, or join in the debate on theblogs.
The disaster that is Satyam has sent shockwaves around the outsourcing world. In short, India's fourth-largest outsourcing services provider inflated the amount of cash it said was on its books by $1bn (&pound;680m); incurred a $253m liability on funds personally arranged by its chairman and founder, Ramalinga Raju; overstated quarterly revenues for the period ending 30 September 2008 by 28% and overstated earnings by $125m. These revelations have led to a crisis of confidence about whether the company will continue, placing question marks over India as a premier destination for outsourcing IT services.Prior to the revelations that emerged last week, Satyam counted 185 of the Fortune 500 companies among its portfolio of around 600 clients, which includes international brands such as General Electric and Nestl&eacute;. In the UK, companies such as Birds Eye Iglo and BP are affected.Satyam undertakes a variety of IT jobs, which include project-based programming through to running business-critical systems such as those offered by SAP and Oracle. Right now, though, it almost certainly requires a government bail-out. The former Accenture partner Brian Sommer, who in December was advocating that Satyam be bought out, says: "Payroll waits for no one. I expect to see a short-term injection of cash by the Indian government to keep it going while the new board of directors figure out what to do." Reports coming out of the Times of India indicate this is the most likely short-term scenario.Rebuilding Satyam's reputation may be a near-impossible task. Sommer says: "There are only two things a service firm has, its people and reputation. People can be replaced but reputation is far more difficult to re-establish."Vinnie Mirchandani, an expert on outsourcing and a negotiator for large-scale outsourcing contracts, says: "It's like a terrorist attack. It sends shockwaves that have a significant effect on Satyam customers. But in the scale of things, Satyam is not that big a problem." Mirchandani believes Satyam's $2bn in revenue can be absorbed by others in the $50bn industry.While some services can be easily transferred to other companies, moving complex business processes such as back-office accounting requires significant effort. In this week's Business Week, John McCarthy, an analyst for Forrester Research in Massachusetts, says that figuring out the knowledge-transfer process "is not for the faint of heart". "In the best case, they can transfer the documentation [to another firm], but if not, they have to look to the [employees] of Satyam."The bigger question is whether the backlash will affect India's reputation as the outsourcing destination of choice. Mirchandani believes not: "My clients are not going to stop outsourcing. India remains a good choice and companies such as TCS, Wipro and Infosys all have solid reputations." He adds onhis blog: "As they say, sunshine is the best disinfectant there is. So this increased spotlight is healthy. But we need to be careful and not get paranoid about extrapolating Satyam's issues to the whole industry."Karl Flinders ofComputer Weekly is not so sure, noting that Wipro, Satyam and Megasoft Consultants have at various times been barred from dealing with the World Bank because of corrupt practices. He says: "Global customers of Indian IT suppliers are questioning the transparency of their suppliers following last week's scandal."Jason Corsello, an HR procurement consultant, says we can expect a significant customer exodus from Satyam, with due diligence measures increasing for every Indian vendor and the possibility many clients will be driven into the arms of IBM or Accenture. That is bound to mean higher prices, at least in the short term.Francine McKenna, an ex-PWC director and a fierce critic of the "big four" accounting firms (PricewaterhouseCoopers, KPMG, Deloitte and Ernst &amp; Young), believes the Satyam issue raises fundamental questions of oversight. She says: "It's hard to know the extent to which there was complicity between the auditors and senior management or whether it was plain incompetence. PWC (Satyam's auditors) doesn't have the enforcement capability. It's left with little choice other than to cut off the gangrenous arm and throw some of its Indian partners under the bus."All this means that, while outsourcing to India isn't going away right now, concerns remain, as pondered by Sommer on hisblog.If India chooses to pretend that this didn't happen, or sweep the whole matter under the rug, it will severely damage its ability to attract new business to the country. If people can perpetrate such frauds with little or no consequence, then what responsible firm would risk its capital in such a place?In the meantime, Satyam is trying hard to reburnish its image. In a media statement published in the Times of India, Kiran Karnik, one of three new board members, said: "Everybody who has interacted with the Indian IT industry is well aware of the high standards of transparency and governance. There has been one very tragic, unfortunate case but that does not mean the industry is under a cloud."So far, the only company that has publicly expressed support for Satyam is Malaysia Airlines, which has received assurances that it is business as usual. It is understood that BP, Nestl&eacute; and GE are all considering their options.
The government wants everyone in the UK to have access to a basic broadband service by 2012, either through a traditional phone line or over a mobile phone network, with the telecoms industry paying for it.The plan is expected to be announced by Lord Carter, the government's new communications minister and the former industry regulator, in his preliminary Digital Britain report this month, according to industry sources.He gave a hint of his plan in a speech to industry and MPs yesterday, saying: "Today we are way beyond the view that broadband is a niche product, it is an enabling and transformational service and therefore we have to look at how we can universalise it. We have to ensure that fairness and access for all is more than a soundbite in a manifesto."More than a third of UK households do not have broadband and getting them connected is crucial to the government's ambitions to create a digital economy and offer more public services over the internet. Last year Gordon Brown pledged to spend &pound;300m over three years giving 1.4 million children access to the internet with free broadband and computers.Carter is understood to be considering replacing the universal service obligation under which BT must provide all with a phone line, brought in when BT was privatised, with a new industry-wide obligation to provide broadband for everybody.The basic broadband service is expected to run at up to 2Mb per second, the same speed as the service that Sky gives its satellite customers free and fast enough for email, web browsing and watching the BBC iPlayer. The mobile phone companies, BT and its rival fixed-line operators will all have to help pay for the universal service through a special industry fund.To realise his ambition, Carter, a former head of Ofcom, has to thrash out a deal with mobile phone companies, whose networks he needs to bring broadband to some remote parts of the UK. Also, an increasing number of British households are now mobile-only so they will need these companies to get online.Carter, whose full report on Digital Britain will be published by June, also hinted yesterday that the government may have a financial role to play in the rollout of the next generation of superfast internet networks. Last year BT said it would spend &pound;1.5bn installing a fibre optic network that will connect 10m UK homes, while Virgin Media recently announced the launch of a broadband service at 50Mb per second.But the downturn in the UK economy has made it harder for companies to raise the cash needed for investment in networks that will cover most of the country. Virgin Media's network covers only about half while BT's fibre network is expected to connect to only 40% of homes.BT bosses have warned that, in the current economic turmoil, shareholders would rather it held on to its cash rather than spend it on new technology.
