With every new user, Facebook's insight and influence in our lives grows and it is now, by most estimates, the most-used website in the world.The site has pledged toalways be free– and that's the biggest indication yet of how confident Facebook is that our personal data is valuable enough to continue to expand its business.Photo byyoukneeonon Flickr.Some rights reserved.After a few high-profile butultimately impotent protestsby some early adopters, the backlash over Facebook's use of data seemed to die down. But in tune with growing public awareness over the control of personal data, anew Facebook unionis providing one coherent andoff-Facebook hub for discussion."Online tools really aren't free. We pay for them with micropayments of personal information."With just 19 members, the Facebook Users' Union is definitely more a concept than a campaign force. "It's a statement that would love to develop into a movement," the creator of the page told me. Richard Buchanan,&nbsp;a freelance ad creative, says that people are effectively working for free to create wealth for Facebook's shareholders.Buchanan wants someone – the Guardian, perhaps – to calculate the value of each Facebook user, based on how much money Facebook (or Google, or MySpace) makes from advertising next to their information."It may be a small amount but it adds up when scaled into the half billion. Thus I feel we, the users, should have a say in how the profit gets distributed. We should be able to donate some of our annual value to good causes."Buchanan said he's been preoccupied with the idea of 'digital sharecropping' since last year. "Facebook, Wikimedia and the rest are making millions from the value create by users, acting like a cooperative but paying itself like a private company."It feels like a great opportunity to begin to redefine the current relationship between consumer value and company profit."Our sense of what is private and what can public is shifting fast, fuelled by social media. Buchanan says this "lack of social instrumentation" is suffocating but that people are becoming more aware of the implications of over-sharing – like the daily ritual of de-tagging Facebook photos. He's betting on theDiaspora modelfor the future, but how about thinking of Facebook directly paying us for our data, or making a donation to charity?"It would be a great day if Facebook purchased users' content. The union is kind of demanding that but the money would go to a good cause instead of to the user. It's kind of a benevolent form of profit-sharing. We make our play pay."
Join Aleks Krotoski and Jemima Kiss for this week's mobile phone-filled podcast. The team are joined by Tim Satchell, the commercial director of InfoMedia, to talk about the future of handheld devices – from augmented reality applications to the next wave of GPS-enabled apps. How has the iPhone changed the world, and what do its competitors need to do to stop it?Also on this week's show, Jemima deconstructs the newest Kindle e-book reader and the team discuss the ban on BlackBerrys in the United Arab Emirates.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Android is on the up.According to market research firm Nielsen, Google handsets grabbed 27% of new smart phone purchasers in the US in the first half of 2010, creeping slightly ahead of iPhone. And with the Android Market heading toward 100,000 apps, it's not as though Apple fanatics can scoff at the lack of choice anymore.So what's out there for gamers at the moment? Well, if you've just purchased a shiny new Android device, here are ten titles, youmustplay. Most of them offer a free 'lite' version so you can try before you buy.I tested all of these on theSony Ericsson Xperia X10, which is a strong choice for gamers due to its powerful processor and huge 4-inch screen (it's also a really nice, comfortable phone to hold, and took some impressive photos during my E3 foray).I also tried several on the impressively diminutiveX10 Mini, an astonishingly compact handset complete with slide-out QWERTY keyboard, impressive battery life and a very good display. This one wouldn't run some of the most demanding titles (the slight downside of Google Android is a certain amount of device fragmentation with different handsets running different versions of the OS, and offering different specifications), but it was great with puzzle titles, and will suit emailing and texting fanatics who want a teeny phone they can occassionally play games on.Anyway, here's the list, and feel free to add your own in the comments section..Robo Defense(Luips Labs, $2.99)Prevent waves of enemy robots from gaining access to your base by carefully placing a range of weapons units in their path. There are plenty of 'tower defence' games available on the Android Market, but this is still the best, thanks to its honed design and perfectly judged learning curve. It's addictive stuff, but if you start to feel like broadening your military prowess, tryUniWaror the Worms-likeArmoured Strike.Hungry Shark(Future Games of London, £2.49)The concept behind this aquatic eat-'em-up couldn't be more straightforward – you're a shark and you have to keep chomping on other sea life to survive. This involves using the accelerometer controls to explore the ocean, gobbling up passing fish and swimmers, while avoiding the poisonous jelly fish, exploding mines and other nasties. Basic then, but quite fraught and challenging when you get into it, and the eating sound effect if satisfyingly crunchy.Zenonia(Gamevil, $5.99)An amazingly rich and detailed RPG, with loads of weapons, spells and quests, and some truly lovely visuals. Korean mobile developer Gamevil is an absolute master of small screen interactive entertainment and this is its magnum opus. I particularly enjoyed the sometimes fruity English translation, which at one point involves an enemy warrior being referred to as a prick. You don't often getthatin Final Fantasy…Turbo Subs(I-play, $1.99)Your job here is simply to keep the customers in your sandwich shop happy by serving up their favourite baguettes as quickly as possible. Controls involve tapping the screen to take orders then tapping again to produce the goods. Okay, it's yet another 'time management' title in the style of Diner Dash, but this one's stylishly presented with nice touchscreen implementation and a calmingly rhythmic structure. And when you're ready to take on more challenging multi-tasking responsibilities, try one of the many air traffic control titles, like Logisoft's Air Control or Camel's Flight Director, or the rural equivalent,Farm Frenzy.Everlands(Hexage, £1.50)This sweet animal puzzler pits your range of mild-mannered forest critters against evil bees, bears and owls in a tile-based cross between Top Trumps and a tactical RPG. Each beast has different attack and defence values and you need to strategically place them on the grid to combine forces and defeat enemy creatures. It's thoughtful, quaintly designed and genuinely challenging – especially considering the at times rather eccentric English text translations.Hyper Jump(Camel Games, $1.99 (limited offer))The iPhone classic Doodle Jump has started a mini trend for vertical platformers, in which gamers simply have to keep their character leaping heavenward for as long as possible by hitting platforms and power-ups. Hyper Jump is a nice variation, with lovely LittleBigPlanet-style handcrafted backgrounds, fun sound effects and smooth accelerometer controls. It sometimes refuses to boot up on the  Mini X10 – a reasonably common problem judging by the Android forums – but on most Android handsets it's a cute micro gaming treat.Pocket Racing(Measured Software, £2.49)Racing games still provide something of a technical challenge on smart phones, where reduced screen real estate and limited controls can often make for a flddly unintuitive experience. Which is perhaps why Measured Software has taken the genre back to basics with this top-down Sprint-style racer, in which you compete only against your own ghost data, or the performance of a mate downloaded from the web. There's no accelerator, just tap left or right to steer round the five circuits. The handling model is fun and the visuals pleasingly sparse. Many players are holding out for refinements such as AI drivers, ramps and other features of top-down classics like Micro Machines, Nitro and Supercars. Hopefully, the developer will deliver in subsequent updates…Shoot U(Camel Games, £1.80)Games that look as though they've been hand drawn by eight-year-olds are still all the rage following the success of Line Rider and Crayon Physics, and this is a fine implementation of the familiar graphical style. Players must fire ragdoll characters out of a cannon to hit a red star, getting the trajectory and speed just right and avoiding obstacles. Each stage presets a different range of physics-based challenges, and all are presented as simple line drawings on a crinkly brown paper background. Daft, but fiendishly more-ish.Radiant(hexage, £1.50)Souped-up retro shooters have proved popular over the last few years with Geometry Wars and Space Invaders Extreme leading the charge. Radiant is a decent Android equivalent with vintage neon-style aliens pulsing down the screen as you blast them to pixels. The controls are simple – the autofire feature means you just have to move left and right – but some depth is provided by the weapons shop that lets you spend your credits on laser guns and smart bombs. It's not the most visually stimulating title in this shoot-'em-up sub-genre, but it's quietly engrossing for fans of Phoenix, Galaxians and the rest.Bonsai Blast(Glu Mobile, $2.99)We had to include at least one 'match three' puzzler so here's a slick Zuma clone from Glu Mobile. The gameplay is probably hugely familiar: you must stop the line of coloured balls by firing marbles at the chain – group three or more similarly hued orbs and they disappear. The touchscreen controls work well and it's all nicely presented with lovely traditional Japanese garden backdrops. I found the in-game Google ads to be a little intrusive but I guess I'll have to get used to that.
Strategies to compete with the iPhone are getting increasingly inventive; the latest is a plan from Sharp for a smartphone with a 3D screen.Sharp says its 3D screen technology, which is only used on small screen for now, does not need special glasses to view the 3D image - which is just as well. But does it have any practical function, or is a 3D screen on a phone just a gimmick?Sharp isn't unique in developing a 3D smartphone; Nokia announced aresearch modelcalled the N810 tablet last September. But the model is key for Sharp, who are lagging in the smartphone market after the massiveMicrosoft Kin flopearlier this year.The 3D smartphone will launch by the end of this year, Sharp said, and will include a 3D camera. Now that does sound interesting.Photo byjimf0390on Flickr.Some rights reserved.
Next time you're in London and need a cab, you might like to try tweeting@tweetalondoncabfor one. Richard Cudlip, Karl James and a small circle of tech-inclined cabbies have spent the last year building up a black cab service on Twitter, and while Cudlip says they don't handle more jobs than in their street-hailing days, it's the data the service generates that is the really interesting part.You can spot a tweetable London cab thanks to the @tweetalondoncab window stickerThere's now 100 cabbies usingtweetalondoncaband nearly 7,000 followers, which means they are nearing a critical mass where the service starts getting really useful with enough cabs to match the number of punters. The drivers are self employed and tweetalondoncab is a voluntary, cooperative project, but the founders want to build it into a business and are looking for funding. They've already metChannel 4's 4ip.So what's the real advantage? The account acts as an aggregator for requests, and cabbies can also flag up their location. Interestingly, isn't too far away from thecourier update service ideastarted Twitter in thefirst place."We're getting more and more bookings, and the quality of bookings is better, with longer trips," said Cudlip, who says a few minor celebrities use the service because they find a direct message more discreet than flagging down cabs on the street. All the drivers are full licenced black cab drivers with 'The Knowledge' - and they now have a tweetalondoncab sticker in the window.The surprise has been the real-time data, and the value of aggregating and sharing information about demand or surplus around the city - a tube line down for an hour, or too much of a queue at St Pancras. "We didn't even think of that when we started,"said Cudlip. "In two years, I'd like us to rival the black cab circuits like ComCab and RadioTaxis. We want more information to come in so we can share it with more people, and that information might be useful to other people in the same wayTFL's datais shared."The data challenge is quite a temptation for developers - three have already approached the team and suggested a mobile app - but there's a problem compiling data between a few hundred sole traders that has put developers off so far. Twitter has been the best solution to date, although a couple of developers are experimenting with Foursquare - setting themselves up as a virtual taxi rank and checking in when they are on duty.That's pretty smart, but with clued-up, GPS smartphone-enabled cabbies spread across the city, surely that's just the start. It's a classic business ripe for disruption. Is anyone up for helping with the challenge?
Last week's news that independent UK games retailer Chipsworld has gone into administration was further evidence of the issues facing smaller games shops. Chipsworld blamed the recession but analyst Nicholas Lovell thinks the problems facing games retailers are more serious. In a piece I meant to blog about last weekLovell arguesthat - amongst other things - an over-reliance on a small number of big titles and the subsequent publisher emphasis on downloadable content means retail will suffer:Publishers are being squeezed and their response is to chase bigger, more impressive titles. Everyone wants to be a Modern Warfare 2, grossing half a billion dollars in retail in the first week. What does that mean for other titles? It means that if you are not a big title, you are not getting the retail sales. In short, we're seeing fewer titles take a larger share of the revenue. And this will continue.The impact for retail is stark. Publisher strategies focus on people buying fewer titles and playing them for longer. That is not good for footfall or average basket size.Lovell thinks DLC is an ever increasing publisher strategy and another issue that will hit retailers:Increasingly, boxed products are not even that important in themselves. They are becoming the first stage in the publishers' strategy of feeding the funnel. Boxed games may even become loss leaders for DLC: the publishers get free marketing in the retail store (paid for by the consumer) but aims to make most of its profits from upselling other elements of DLC.Both of these trends make sense but I think Lovell makes a more interesting observation when he talks about what he describes as the erosion of the hardcore.This one is more of a belief than empirical evidence. I'm still researching it. But my belief is that the hardcore gamer market is stagnating. I wonder if we may have reached a plateau where the hardcore market has reached its maximum size.  As people get older, with families and other commitments, they are less able to dedicate time to gaming. they are still keen gamers, but will seek alternative, less-intensive ways of getting their gaming fix.  This is precisely what happens in the film / television industries. Single, dating, childless people go to the cinema more often. Older, married couples with kids watch television. They are still consumers of filmed entertainment: just through a different medium.As he says there is no evidence for this but I think he has a point. Any gamer with a young family will appreciate the time-constraint difficulties Lovell mentions. Red Dead Redemption may be calling but it won't drown out a screaming baby who needs a nappy change. I don't necessarily agree that the hardcore gamer market has plateaued though, but there are a lot more gaming options available now than there were 10 years ago. Think mobile gaming, online, MMOs and the rest.Anyway what do you think? Are the numbers of hardcore gamers in decline? And what about games retailers. Do you still buy in shops? Or is it all online sales now?
Despite trying for over a year,Spotifyhas been beaten to US launch byRdio, the comparable online music start-up backed by Atomico Ventures' Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, who earlier in their careers founded Skype and Kazaa.Rdio on Tuesday switched off its beta service and went public in the US and Canada only, offering unlimited web streaming for $4.99 a month or additional Android, iPhone and BlackBerry access for $9.99 a month -a similar pricepoint at which Spotifyand comparable services operate elsewhere.Photo byCarbonNYCon Flickr.Some rights reservedBillboard last weekreportedSpotify, which most recently has targeted end of 2010 for US launch, is "back to square one"on the idea and "has approached the labels with a clean slate to determine what type of service would be possible". Spotify's chief executive Daniel Ek is philosophical, last week tweeting: "Life is not perfect. Sometimes it ain't even good. But it is what you make it to be."But Billboard never asked Spotify and has sinceupdatedits story with Spotify's recently-appointed US managing director Kenneth Parks commenting: "We are in fact in a good place with our label negotiations. We're confident in our US launch later this year."Now Billboard says: "Sources saySpotify has almost completed deals with some of the major labels." And it says some of the assertions in its original story are "unclear".Whatever the case, it's clear thatthe unlimited digital music subscription space ishotting up, with many entrants all vying to pick up recurring monthly custom as a la carte purchases wane…Spotify still stands to own a major slice of this market (it already has over 500,000 paying customers), but the longer its US debut waits, and the longer it goes without signing crucial carriage partners,the more chance the likes of Rdio have of gaining a foothold.Where Spotify requires an app for PC play and is trying to manage the bandwidth demands of its ad-supported free service, which it is now trying to limit,Rdio eschews free streaming in favour of a subscription-only service...Though US label divisions, particularly Warner Bros Records, haveexpressed reluctance to license free serviceslike Spotify's, pay-for Rdio boasts US licenses from the four majors plus a selection of indies.Spotify and Rdio are pretty close on feature set - collaborative playlists, offline cacheing, Pandora-style "artist radio", iTunes migration, pay-for track downloads. But Rdio, whose presentation is slick and simple, goes harder on social discovery.Update: Though Rdio says it's signed "partnerships with major independent music aggregators including IODA, IRIS, Finetunes, INgrooves and The Orchard", Merlin, the self-appointed "fifth major" representing indie labels with 10% of US market share and the same proportion of Spotify plays, says Rdio has not got a license for those indies' repertoire, and so isn't carrying many big indie artists…Merlin chief executive Charles Caldas: "It is incredibly disappointing that Rdio have launched their new service across North America without having finalised a deal for the world's most important independent labels and artists."We are surprised that a service, whose success would seem dependent on offering its consumers a comprehensive choice of repertoire, would launch without giving those consumers access to the leading global independent labels we represent, and their artists."• ReadThe Celestial Jukebox: Who's Who In The New Music Goldrush- we compare and contrast the unlimited-music contenders…
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team•Barnes &amp; Noble Puts Itself Up for Sale &gt;&gt; WSJ.com•Motorola and Verizon team up for TV tablet &gt;&gt; Financial Times•iPhone Jailbreak Uses a PDF Display Vulnerability &gt;&gt; Slashdot•Underwhelming BlackBerry Spells Doom For RIM &gt;&gt; Gizmodo•Google Search in Firefox Bar Alone Is Bigger Than Bing, Yahoo; Bidding War Coming Soon &gt;&gt; Read Write Web•Gmail Now Lets You Save Attachments to the Desktop via Drag-and-Drop &gt;&gt; Mashable•Google finally enables same-browser, multiple account Gmail sign-in &gt;&gt; Engadget•An iPhone App To Schedule and Graph Sex With All Your Girlfriends &gt;&gt; Gizmodo•YouSendIt Raises $15 Million Series D &gt;&gt; TechCrunch•Is your browser ready for HTML5 &gt;&gt; Wired UK•Android Soars, but iPhone Still Most Desired as Smartphones Grab 25% of U.S. Mobile Market &gt;&gt; Nielsen Wire"Multipurpose smartphones that allow users to access the web and email as well as run thousands of apps and share text and picture messages are now 25% of the U.S. mobile market, up from 23% in the last quarter according to recent data from The Nielsen Company. By the end of 2011, Nielsen predicts smartphones to overtake feature phones in the U.S. market."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
If you were hoping to spend the Christmas hols shooting up New York and fleeing from giant robot assassins, you might be out of luck. In EA's financial conference call to investors today, the company announced that its hotly anticipated shooter sequel Crysis 2 is being delayed until first quarter 2011 – probably March. It had originally been planned as a winter release on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360, but is being held back, no doubt to give the notoriously perfectionist team at Crytek more dev time.On a more positive note, the veteran publisher announced that it had swung into profit during Q1 2010, making $96 million after 11 straight quarters in the red. We'll have more on all this tomorrow...
This week, it's all about Demon's Souls (again) with Dwarf Fortress popping in for another weird and uncomfortable visit before scurrying off to its hillside retreat. Other than that, take your pick from expensive haircuts, flying cats and internet use clampdowns. Yes, it's business as usual at Chatterbox, and business is good... ish.OneDaveofMany is driving the 'Best of' bus for us, so clamber on board, show him your ticket, then sit at the back and flick the Vs at passers-by.Best of W/E July 30 2010Editor: OneDaveofManyThe Geek ChorusThe week was welcomed in with continued talk of two of the blog's hottest topics: Demon's Souls (you could at least act surprised) and the unlikely resurgence of Dwarf Fortress[namechecked by none other than EA Play chief Rod Humble in my video interview with him this week! – Keef]. It really was impressive stuff for a Monday morning, the trivialities of the weekend interspersed with such nuggets as this from bigworv: "You need to kill bosses and not die in body form to make a world go white basically. Therefore it is worth dying in the nexus or a different world if you're trying to get white tendency for a world". Quite.More and more blog folks seem to be getting into Demon's Souls, so don't expect the topic to go away soon. HereComesTreble finally got his hands on the game, though not at the expense of his neighbour whom he had suspected of taking his copy (it's a long story involving suspicion, Ocean's 11 levels of planning and British Gas uniforms) and proudly announced, "I've taken all your advice on board, and decided to start out as a Hobbit. I can always mould my guy (I'm calling him Brian) into more of a Freestyle Magician as I go along. I love this game." We await Brian updates with bated breath.[Speak for yourself – Keef]In fact he loved the game so much that by the end of the week he was proudly declaring: "Demon's Souls - I think this is the best game I've ever played. There, I said it. What are you going to do about it?" Judging by general blog opinion I suspect the answer is, agree.As for Dwarf Fortress, this seems to be an altogether more hardcore game to get into. Both RobLindsay and FerrisSaved tried with little success to penetrate its ASCII exterior, though Limni seemed immediately taken with it. "Never before have I known a game to get its claws into me to such an extent. I reckon I played 15 hours or so over the weekend, maybe more."For those wondering what the game is like, VictoriousCupid summed it up nicely: "Just looked up some images of dwarf fortress on Google, it's like the 80s all over again!", though BeardOfBees (resident DF expert, possibly working on commission) was on hand to lay out instructions for making it look slightly less retro: "download a tileset and you can have little 2D pictures of things instead of the ASCII characters. It won't make it Crysis but it does the job of making everything a bit clearer. The DF page on the wiki has a link to a handy package with everything you need to start." For those foolish or brave enough to be interested, that wiki link ishere.The Meet CircusAfter a few successful meetings between bloggers (even Keef survived the last one by all accounts) the flood doors have apparently been opened when it comes to planning further 'Meat Ups'. Evidence that, even though that phrase sounds more disgusting every time it is typed, the desire of Chatterbox regulars to physically meet for drinks and other such wholesome activities, remains stronger than ever. As well as a planned Birmingham event, there were also arrangements made for the Eurogamer Expo at Earls Court in early October. Rather than being vague notions of getting together all events were adorned with that most official of all Gamesblog staples – a wiki page entry to ensure numbers are managed and the information is disseminated easily. We are nothing if not pragmatic. Now the notion of gamers socialising might seem like a strange one to you, dear reader, but that's only because your narrow minded gamer stereotypes need updating. Broaden those horizons, then come join us for a pint.[I've done it, it's perfectly safe – Keef]Look busy and deny everythingSome say there are two things guaranteed in life, death and taxes, but this week, events in the blog indicated a possible third entry to the list – a work internet use crackdown. Such a somber topic was kicked off on Monday with a message from Be4ch who had been hauled up for just such a reason. "When I left this evening (my boss) had the reports from IT and was busy compiling a list of dates and times." Such tales are designed to send a cold shiver of fear down the neck of any loyal Chatterboxer, a poignant reminder of what we risk in the service of such a noble cause.The topic continued through the week with several other bloggers affected by similar issues or warnings, in the light of such tales LazyBones was taking no risks: "All this talk of people living in the internet, though, and getting disciplinaries and the like. It's making me concerned. I'll just be commenting from the sidelines, I think, for a bit." However not everyone was worried, ChairOfRust made himself the envy of the blog (or spoke some famous last words) on Tuesday: "My work are amazing lenient. I worry not." The moral of the story is to remain vigilant out there, your Chatterbox cyanide pills have been dispensed, here's hoping you never have to use them.[Cyanide?! I thought it was a multivitami..........]Love might not be in the airA familiar topic to the blog is the old chestnut of balancing gaming time with that spent with family/other halves (I'll be honest, bigamists have it toughest). PDMalcolm shared his latest spat on the subject with the blog: "(it) started out with me wanting to spend a quiet 20 minutes watching the Dwarf Fortress tutorials on YouTube and this being interpreted as "you never want to spend time with me!" Cue a tirade about how she wants me to not play a computer game ever again and how can I prefer those to her. I try to point out that the two are not mutually exclusive, but that was never gonna fly."Box responses were mixed as usual. Bigworv cut to the chase immediately: "My advice is to ditch her. No offence etc." Others were more understanding, FerrisSaved even managed the impressive feat of keeping on topic and bringing in a gaming reference: "Sometimes reasonableness is left at the door though. I liken it to a boss in DS. When they go into their massive attack mode, that's the time to raise the shield and hide." Top work that man.Then again it would be remiss of me to leave the discussion at this rather one sided and rather male-centric, view on the subject, as there are many on the box whose other halves either game, or who have the balance of time sorted out. SageSmith6079 rounded out the topic nicely with this aspirational story from the latest blog meet up that offers hope to gamers everywhere: "After the Northern Meat Up I expected to turn up at home and find Mrs Sage in her usual state of pyjama-clad sofa-hogging semi-consciousness… I needn't have worried. She did me proud. As the drunken bloggers walked into my lounge there was Mrs Sage, dressed well, playing and winning at multiplayer Blur on the 360. It was a moment akin to seeing your child take its first steps. Bursting with pride I may have even promised to go shopping with her the following week."Later in the day, the discussion turned to a different kind of romance; that found within games. Well I say romance… still the topic threatened to rise above puerile insinuation to a genuinely thought-provoking assessment of sexuality in gaming, led by that bastion of taste ImperfectRex regarding his recent play through of Mass Effect 2: "With the romance angle – presumably it's heterosexual (sic) only? The game does allude to some lesbian action but when I tried to grab Garrus'... " unfortunately that's as much mature discussion as we got, but at nearly two whole sentences I'd still count it as a box record.Vegan do it, then I canSerenVickity kicked off Wednesday's box with a food-related dilemma concerning to her new lodger: "The only problem is trying to accommodate him at meal times. He doesn't eat carbs, fish or herbs… I'm tempted to spike most of his food with bushels of parsley just because I'm getting angry at being forced to avoid potatoes/pasta/bread etc... I can't even have chips. I believe this is what prompted Kate Knight to buy anti-freeze."Naturally, this prompted a morning's worth of discussions on this behaviour (the general consensus was that it was highly out of order) and also on eating habits in general. The good name of Vegetarians was besmirched, though HumOfEvil and RedDread did their best to prop up their corner, both denouncing the cult of the 'I'm Veggie but I eat…', which I think is something we can all agree on.HappySocks was defiant however: "My ancestors didn't climb to the top of the food chain for me to eat grass and fungus." Possibly missing the point, but you've got to admire his simplification of millions of years of evolution. After this point I'll be honest it got quite dull. Pretty dull in fact. I think something may have happened around 12 o' clock but I couldn't tell you for certain. More food choices were discussed, words like pescetarian, vegan and obnoxious were thrown around. People drifted away for lunch. Thankfully what was consumed therein remained unsaid, and the world moved on.Malaise-y DaysThe end of the week passed by with relatively little fuss compared to the way it started. Many smaller topics were started and dismissed and the box worked (possibly a bad choice of words) its way towards the weekend. There was a wave of nostalgia for the '90s creeping into the blog at one point, for the music and games in particular, something that lead HerselfTheMonkey to chastise the blog upon her late return: "All you old timers reliving your '90s glory days, it's sort of like a quiet corner in a retirement community where the old duffers compare war stories and other tales of hardship." Touché.Wine blog took hold at various times in the week. I won't list suggestions but the 'box turned out to be well versed on the subject (general consensus was to avoid Blossom Hill like an IT auditor). Thursday's blog holds many answers for those who are interested, though I'm sure there will be a wiki page soon enough.Other topics also covered towards the end of the week: remakes better than the originals... this turned out to be a series of very short lists. There was some actual gaming discussion regarding Kinect and its ability to allow two people to play, but detect up to six people (presumably using its inbuilt curiosity sensor). Friday saw the quick flurry of book blog (many, many sci-fi suggestions), mortgage blog and haircut blog. This was primarily focused on the cost of said 'cut', CunningStunt had arguably the best response to the question of the day though with the simple response: "two bits. And that's with a shave".HerselfTheMonkey provoked outrage with the news that her latest 'do' cost £140, though she was keen to point out this was for more than just a simple cut. At this news ImperfectRex mused that, "women's hairdressing is something that could work for me. Just need to find some way to make myself deaf for 8-10 hours at a time." The general rule of thumb with the male bloggers seemed to be either to pay around a tenner, or buy some clippers and sort it yourself. So now you know.[Hello, is that the seventies? Can I have my games forum back please? – Keef]Mental Image of the WeekHas to go to CraggyIsland for his opening gambit on Thursday's blog: "Watching TV last night we had the pleasure of a flying cat disturb our viewing. We have a spiral staircase which the cats love to sit and play on… she misjudged one of her leaps and came sailing through the railings. She missed MrsC's head by a foot or so and dropped right in between the back of the sofa and the wall… Looked a bit shocked afterwards, but after a brief clean was back to normal. Everytime I think about her just missing MrsC's head I'm giggling to myself this morning."Quotes of the week"A few weeks ago I was watching Big Bang Theory and they were playing Talisman (not sure which edition)...it made me think I may not be living my life to its full potential."Hard times for EnglishRed, but at least he didn't know the edition."You're on Eastern Kingdoms, Orgrimmar is on Kalimdor. To get there, use the 'Orb of Translocation' in Silvermoon, behind Lor'themar Theron (Blood Elven Leader). This orb will take you to Undercity in Kalimdor, take a left, outside Undercity there are Zeppas. Take one to Durotar/Orgrimmar."Shawshank22 would make a good WoW cabbie. Or possibly just made all that up."I watched Heartbeat last night. My life is falling to pieces."CountGinula should really only be admitting such things to a qualified therapist."This game ... It's up there, for me, with chess. Something about it speaks to me. I think there is definitely something appealing about building a really high tower. I have seen feminist criticisms of skyscrapers, that say they are like big phallic symbols. Well perhaps there is something of this sort going on with Jenga. The phallic symbol in Jenga, though, is tragic. It gets bigger, ever higher, but only at the expense of itself, which is being undermined at every stage. It's a fantastic game."LazyBones once again needing no further comment.New:Schwen, NormsNormington, fattulip,Films:A Serbian Film (don't look it up), Inception, Toy Story 3TV:Sherlock, Jeeves and WoosterLinks:Chewbacca on a squirrel fighting NazisAnd don't forget:You can find everyone's gamer tags, dates for the latest meat ups and much more onthe official Chatterbox wiki.And if you find yourself short of new tunes to enjoy, head over to ourofficial Spotify list– and feel free to add your own favourites!
The Canadian manufacturer of BlackBerry smartphones today took the wraps off the Torch, which combines touchscreen capability with a slide-out keyboard, in an attempt to snatch back momentum lost to the popularity of Apple's iPhone and Google's Android operating system.At a hi-tech launch event in New York, Research In Motion offered a first public demonstration of the long awaited device, which is powered by a new software platform, called BlackBerry 6, and boasts a variety of innovations to combine information feeds from email, text messaging and social networks such as Facebook, Twitter and MySpace.The Torch, which has been under development for 18 months, has been described by technology commentators as RIM's attempt at an 'iPhone killer'. It will go on sale for $199 (£125) in the US in partnership with AT&amp;T on 12 August, with a roll-out in Britain later this year.RIM's chief technology officer, David Yach, told the Guardian that he viewed RIM's phones as much more orientated towards communication, while rivals' devices are for having fun."People want great communication devices and I see our phones as more about 'us' – they're for communicating with others – while other phones are more about 'me'."He rejected suggestions that RIM was simply reacting to the success of Apple's touchscreen phones: "We've always viewed ourselves as going our own way. It seems like every device is viewed as an 'iPhone killer'."Among the Torch's features is a "universal feed" whereby users get a combined stream of updates from email, text messaging and social networking. Users can search all these sources at one stroke through a "universal search". The phone has a new podcast application and an improved zoom function for viewing websites with small text.RIM billed the new phone as one of its most important launches since the first BlackBerry went on sale in 1999. Users of the firm's devices include president Barack Obama, who has a special super-encrypted handset. The queen was given a BlackBerry when she visited a RIM factory during a tour of Canada last month.Once virtually unrivalled in smartphones, the BlackBerry is facing fierce competition, particularly in the US. Recent figures from research firm Nielsen gave RIM a US market share of 35% in the second quarter, ahead of Apple's 28%, while a variety of phones using Google's Android system captured 13% of sales."In the North American market they've certainly lost some momentum but we should recognise that they're really a force to be reckoned with," said Ben Wood, a mobile phones analyst at CCS Insight, who said the Touch's web browser appeared a significant improvement which offers a smoother user experience than previous "functional" BlackBerrys.Another analyst, Carolina Milanesi of Gartner Research, said the vertical slide-out keyboard meant the BlackBerry emphasis remained on email: "It's about RIM not seeing more churn in their enterprise [business] customers to Android and the iPhone. It's more of a defensive move than offensive."RIM prides itself on the security of devices – anattribute that has led to trouble in the Middle East, where the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia are threatening to block certain functions unless law enforcement authorities are allowed access to encrypted messaging.
The Coventry teenager thrown unwittingly into social media stardom has spoken out about being the only person followed by rap starKanye West on Twitter.Speaking exclusivelyto his local newspaper, student Steven Holmes admitted: "The funny thing is I like his music but I'm not his biggest fan."Holmeshas attracted more than 3,000 new followers on the popular social network since his endorsement from one of the world's best-known music stars. But the whole situation appears to have proved too much for the unassuming university student."Before this weekend I thought it would be cool to have a celebrity following me on Twitter but now I think it's really not worth it," he told the Coventry Telegraph.And the global news organisations knocking on his door can forget about speaking to him, too. He said: "I didn't want to talk to any of them. Fame has never appealed to me. It's vacuous."Kanye West is on the way to 500,000 Twitter followers after signing up late last month. It is not yet known why the 33-year-old rapper from Atlanta, Georgia, opted to follow only the West Midlands teenager."I just commented on something on Kanye West's account and next thing I know he's following me," he said. "I was like, 'Oh my God!', but about 20 seconds later I had 20 messages from people I didn't even know and my phone wouldn't stop bleeping."Holmes even took to deleting the Twitter application from his iPhone to put an end to the avalanche of comments from music fans and journalists.But the interest didn't subside, Holmes laterposting: "This has been completely surreal and I really have no desire for this attention I'm just a normal person."He added: "I won't be speaking to anybody else, surprisingly not everyone wants to be famous. That's all I'm saying – peace out x."Kanye West began following Holmes on Saturday evening after the teenager commented on a picture he posted on the social networking site.Surprised, as is only natural when singled out by a global megastar, Holmes tweeted: "Holy shit bro thx for following!". West replied: "You are the chosen one dun dun dun dun."Holmes now seems to be lying low on Twitter, not updating his status for about 24 hours and apparently waiting for the instant stardom to subside.
Google's Andoid mobile operating system has continued its growth in US market share, according to new figures, with a continued drop for Microsoft's Windows Mobile and waning loyalty among BlackBerry owners.Apple's iPhone remained the most desired smartphone on the US market in the second quarter of 2010,Nielsen figuresgathered before the release of the iPhone 4 show.But it's three cheers for Google as the increasingly popular (among consumers as well as manufacturers) operating system continues an upward trajectory on both sides of the Atlantic. Retail watcher Gfk said last week that UK sales of mobiles running Android hadrisen by more than 300% this year.It would, of course, have been more newsworthy for Android to have dropped in market share, given the scope of devices and operators it caters to. The chart of US smartphone subscribers in the first half of 2010, below, shows a steep incline for Android adoption.Towards the end of June, Android nosed ahead of Apple's iOS as most-adopted operating system in the US smartphone market – but these figures take in only a week of iPhone 4 sales.Among US owners of a BlackBerry, 57% are planning to abandon the smartphone and opt for a different operating system, quarter two figures show. The news puts added importance on RIM's press conference today, with the expected launch of the BlackBerry 9800, thought to have both a touchscreen and a slide-out qwerty keyboard.
The brieflybanned-by-NYTiPad appPulse, which turns RSS feeds into a digital magazine format, has launched a new 'My Pulse' feature that lets you publish your feeds to a Posterous 'lite blogging' account.Photo bystylianosmon Flickr.Some rights reservedAdd a story to your favourites insidePulseand, after creating a new Posterous account, stories will post to that site. The advantage is easier sharing, because anyone can read your edited selection of stories (much like our Newsbucket) but you can also post other content to Posterous by emailing links and ideas. It's a like a digital scrapbook, and incredibly fast to post.FilmgirlatMashableshows how it works.On the downside, Pulse only lets you follow 20 new feeds which is simply not enough for us RSS addicts. I have 34 core feeds and that's after battling to keep the list down. Pulse is supposed to be fast to browse, but nothing will be faster than a list of headlines, which is what I get at the moment on the Bylines app.But the customised, digital magazine idea is enjoying a moment in the spotlight. For a more leisurely interpretation of your daily news package, this is the best I've seen and the idea of repackaging the news that interests you takes this a stage further.
If the Wii and its motion control heralded a paradigm shift in gaming then Nintendo will be hoping thatthe 3DS– the 3D version of the DS - repeats the trick and blows the market wide open once more.  I recently had some hands-on time with 3DS and was hugely impressed, if not quite as blown away as I had expected.As you probably know the 3DS displays 3D images without the need for glasses.  The story of how Nintendo achieved this will be worth reading one day but the fact is that it works.  Well, mostly anyway. To get the full 3D experience you need to be looking face on. Get the wrong angle and blurring becomes an issue. Also – and let's get the negatives out of the way first – the build quality wasn't quite as good as I expected. The 3D slider in particular felt very cheap and flimsy.  Luckily then the on-screen visual treats made up for this. Pilotwings, Mario Kart, Metal Gear Solid - the names may be retro but the 3D graphics in each felt like the future.Pilotwings was the most impressive of the titles shown and not just because it was playable.  The 3D added depth to the "flying through hoops" race and a proper sense of perspective on the jetpack level.  A quick fiddle with the 3D adjustment slider confirmed that what would have a welcome return of a much-loved (at least by older gamers) franchise even if it had arrived in 2D only is elevated to potential greatness with 3D. Sure, nostalgia plays a part but Pilotwings will draw a lot of attention to 3DS.The bigger franchises on display were in demo form.  Mario Kart had some lively exhaust effects in 3D while the sense of speed was heightened.  Metal Gear Solid: Snake Eater 3D was a more technically impressive demo. Like the movie Avatar the game uses jungle environments - foliage is clearly the best way to show off 3D. Snakes and crocodiles jumping out of the screen helped too and this may well be the first MGS game where the cut-scenes are there to be savoured rather than skipped.Elsewhere Kid Icarus showed enough to suggest that most genres can benefit from a little lick of 3D paint even if Hollywood 61 – also shown – was less successful. The 3D did give some life to the carboard cutout visuals but Hollywood's stodgy play wasn't the best demo for the new format. Much more interesting – especially, you imagine, to 8 year old girls – was Nintendogs and Cats. This 3D version of the original DS game sees you throwing balls "into" the screen and letting your pet "lick" your face if you lean into the screen.  Gimmicky? Probably, but you can see this one being on all the demo pods nearer release.Last up was the movie trailer for Legend of Guardians. This felt a little flat by comparison to the games, probably because a bigger screen was needed to fully appreciate.Away from the demos the built-in 3DS camera was also demoed. Purists won't be ditching their SLRs just yet but the 3D images were surprisingly good. It all felt a long way from theGame Boy camera.Despite the occasional blurring and cheapy slider I was impressed by the 3DS. Showing 3D visuals without the need for glasses is enough on its own to make 3DS a hugely appealing draw.  Add in the potential to revitalise and renew some of Nintendo's franchises – like Pilotwings – and the attraction is clear. Sure, the effect isn't as crisp as the marvellous 3D extravaganza available on the PS3 - with a pricey 3D enabled TV of course -  but the 3DS still puts on an impressive show.What do you think then? Tempted by 3DS?
Microsoft has releaseda "critical" updatefor its operating systems that patches a high-profile vulnerability dating back to Windows 2000.Attackers could potentially gain control of an unpatched computer through a weakness in the way Windows handles desktop shortcut icons. The weakness was particularly worrying because users did not have to open a file for malware writers to exploit it – only a folder containing an infected .lnk extension.Microsoftacknowledgedthe flaw weeks ago, rushing out a temporary workaround which left some shortcuts unable to load.All versions of Microsoft's operating system from Windows 7 back to Windows 2000 are affected. Microsoft's latest update is good news for many but will not be welcomed by those with computers running Windows 2000 – which is not supported by the new patch.Last week two computer security firms, G Data and Sophos,released separate potential fixesfor the vulnerability. Ralf Benzmueller, head of G Data SecurityLabs, warning that the flaw "will be massively exploited shortly". And, judging fromfigures released by Microsoft yesterday, he wasn't wrong.The number of computers reporting attack attempts on this software shortcoming neared 8,000 by midnight on Thursday July 29, with customers in Brazil and the United States the worst affected.Ablogpostby the company's Malware Protection Centre (MMPC) said one particular "family" of malware, dubbed "Sality", had increased its attacks over the past week. "Sality is a highly virulent strain," warns Holly Stewart of MMPC. "It is known to infect other files (making full removal after infection challenging), copy itself to removable media, disable security, and then download other malware. It is also a very large family – one of the most prevalent families this year."
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team•Facebook Doubles Size of Data Center Before Itâ€™s Even Built &gt;&gt; GigaOM•Data Showing Android Pushing Past Apple Does Not Include iPhone 4 &gt;&gt; TechCrunch•Page-turning 'Macallan' UI will hit a Windows 7 tablet this year &gt;&gt; Engadget•Android Shipments up Nearly 900% &gt;&gt; Read Write Web•Social Networking Dominates Our Time Spent Online &gt;&gt; Mashable•Android Sales Overtake iPhone in the U.S &gt;&gt; GigaOM•Google's Quarterly Acquisition Tab: $148 Million For 11 Startups &gt;&gt; paidContent.org•Internet Explorer gains ground for second month | Beyond Binary &gt;&gt; CNET News•Windows 7 Overtakes Vista Marketshare &gt;&gt; The Next Web•Microsoft Algorithm Saves Blurry Photos From Your Shaky Hands &gt;&gt; Gizmodo•Negroponte Offers OLPC Technology for $35 Tablet &gt;&gt; PCWorld Business CenterYou can followGuardian Technologyon delicious.
The government's first attempt at crowdsourcing its coalition programme has ended without a single government department expressing a willingness to alter any policy.Crowdsourcing involves soliciting knowledge and expertise from the public to help find solutions to problems. The coalition asked the public to respond to its programme on government websites. It received 9,500 replies online.However, its formal responses, published on each website, shows Whitehall regarded the process largely as an endorsement of what it was already doing.In cases where most of the submissions conflicted with existing policy, the department simply restated the policy. The departmental responses were published last Friday without publicity.The government has two other significant crowdsourcing exercises under way, including a Treasury-led request for the public to suggest ways to save money, which received 60,000 responses.The government has also asked for suggestions on what laws it should abolish.Simon Burall, director of Involve, a group advising bodies on consultation, said: "You have to give the government some credit for trying to do this, but badly designed consultations like this are worse than no consultations at all. They diminish trust and reduce the prospect that people will engage again. This is a dangerous problem for a government that is going to have to take people with them when they make very difficult decisions."Among the subjects covered were charges for alcoholic NHS patients, opposition to raising the pension age, the capital gains tax increase, the route for a high-speed rail line and an end to the badger cull.Faced by calls for a ban on immigration, the Home Office replied: "We are pleased to see broad support for our proposal to limit migration so that net migration is scaled back to the [1990s] level."The Department of Energy and Climate Change says in its response: "A theme which emerged was that you want this coalition to display a real sense of urgency in addressing two challenges: securing energy supplies, and decarbonising the economy. We agree." It then sets out what the government is already doing.The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, facing demands to abandon plans to revisit the issue of hunting with dogs, says: "The government wishes to give parliament the opportunity to review [the law] although it is not currently a priority."The Department for International Development's response to questions over the plan to spend 0.7% of national income on overseas aid by 2013 was: "Dropping this&nbsp;pledge&nbsp;would be a serious mistake."
There were concerns tonight that other governments could suspend BlackBerry data services including email and web browsing after the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia announced plans for bans over the weekend, citing security issues.The move to suspend data services on the popular devices is the latest flare-up as governments in the Middle East and other countries including China, Turkey and Pakistan grapple with the free flow of information over the internet.The UAE, which includes the business centres of Dubai and Abu Dhabi, said on Sunday it would prevent BlackBerry services such as email, web browsing and text messaging from October, after first raising concerns with the Canadian manufacturer Research In Motion three years ago.The ban will extend to visitors to the UAE who take their BlackBerrys with them, although phone services will still be available. Saudi officials told local television the region's most populous nation would follow by blocking instant messaging on the BlackBerry from October.Shares in RIM, which are quoted on the Nasdaq exchange, were tonight trading 2.4% lower at $56.12 (£35.76), overshadowing the launch tomorrow of its long-awaited answer to Apple's iPhone as it attempts to recapture some initiative in the smartphone market.The Gulf states have singled out BlackBerry, which has 46m users worldwide, because unlike rivals, it encrypts its data and processes it through a handful of secure operational centres, chiefly in Canada, putting them outside of local jurisdictions. That makes it a more secure network and popular for corporate and government users, but more difficult to monitor. India, Kuwait and China have also raised concerns.Neil Mawston at Strategy Analytics said a high-profile case could cause other governments to look again. "If there is sustained public attention drawn to this practice over several months and if international growth starts to slow as a result, RIM may have to review its policy of routing data via Canada servers," he said."Any country in the world could potentially raise concerns if they think it will affect their security. Countries that already have relatively tight PC internet controls are likely to turn their focus increasingly to wireless data services as they become more popular."Matthew Reed at Informa, a mobile analyst based in Dubai, said one of the main reasons for the clampdown on BlackBerry devices in the Gulf is their ubiquity. "BlackBerrys are very, very popular here, far more than the iPhone for example," Reed said. "And they are not just being used for email. People are using BlackBerry Messenger and one of the reasons they have become a concern for the authorities is more and more people are using them for social networking and even news."The administration in Bahrain recently banned the provision of local news on BlackBerry devices. Anyone accessing social networks on a BlackBerry, meanwhile, risks contravening strict religious conventions – and even laws in some states – that govern personal behaviour."In Saudi Arabia, people are using BlackBerry Messenger to talk to members of the opposite sex," said Reed. "It is the fact that it is a form of communication which is quite anonymous that is part of its appeal to people."In a statement issued on Sunday, the UAE's telecoms authority said: "BlackBerry data is immediately exported offshore, where it's managed by a foreign, commercial organisation."It said the decision to ban data services "is based on the fact that, in their current form, certain BlackBerry services allow users to act without any legal accountability, causing judicial, social and national security concerns".RIM has become increasingly popular. In the first quarter it overtook Sony Ericsson as the fifth largest mobile handset firm in the world with a share of about 3.6%, according to the research firm IDC.Nick Jones, analyst at Gartner, said the impact of the ban on RIM would be minimal – he estimates sales in the Middle East and Africa are less than 1% of the firm's global volumes – and that it was more important the company stood firm. "It is more important for RIM to have a secure network than it is to buckle under government pressure," he said. "People trust BlackBerry. It is the most secure mobile consumer device you can buy. If it gave in, the impact on sales would be small and the impact on reputation would be large."There are around 400,000 BlackBerry users in Saudi Arabia and 500,000 more across the UAE.Increasingly, technology companies are being forced to tread a difficult line between building their businesses in emerging markets and not being seen to enforce what might be a repressive regime.Other US internet firms have fallen foul of governments. Google had a high-profile stand-off with Beijing about the censorship of information on its service in China but reached a compromise last month that allows Chinese users to be redirected to a Hong Kong home page.Turkey and Pakistan have both temporarily blocked access to YouTube, while Pakistan prevented its population from using Facebook in May because of what it described as anti-Islamic content on the social-networking site.In a statement, RIM said it "respects both the regulatory requirements of government and the security and privacy needs of corporations and consumers".
How odd it must have been to beStephen Holmes, unsuspecting Kanye West fan, who,  after briefly tweeting his  hero last week to ask him which brand of toothpaste he favours on his diamond teeth, was selected to be the sole  person followed by the mercurial rapper.In the week he hasbeen on Twitter, West has gained 400,000 followers, roughly 399,999 of whom  immediately got extremely annoyed that he hadn't picked them as the "chosen one". Coventry-based Holmes subsequently acquired about 1,600 new followers overnight, and has turned into a minor Twitter celebrity.He noted, "I feel pressure to say amusing and witty tweets now," although maintains an endearing fondness for Lily  Allen and Irn Bru, despite  his unexpected celebrity hijacking. "Tweet strong young  man, tweet strong," was  Kanye's sage advice.It's interesting, because  Twitter is not a democracy. There are stars, and they  have acolytes, which is pretty much the relationship we  have with them on TV, or in magazines: they talk, we listen. Five and a half million of us,  in the case of Britney Spears.But how about when they talk back? As Holmes is  finding out, if a proper famous person starts to follow you, that's where paralysis sets in. A funny tweeter friend  of mine recently got followed by comedian Charlie Higson.  He confesses he went from  enjoying making off-the-cuff remarks to sweatily panicking over every hewn character for about a week, and is still too afraid to check to see if  Higson's still following him.Of course, there are  exceptions: every single  politician on twitter will  follow you back faster than@tweetalondoncab: try it, it's quite funny.I've suffered my own Twitter performance anxiety in the past: having recommended that my friends follow the amazing singer-songwriter Tracey Thorn, she followed me right back with a jaunty message. It was extremely difficult not to make my next six tweets awestruck fawning of stupendous proportions. I think, under the circumstances, Holmes is doing  extremely well. They  do say never  meet your  heroes.  But maybe,  on Twitter,  it's OK.• Tracey Thorn was misspelled Tracey Thorne in the original version of this article. It was corrected on August 4
What is it?Samsung Galaxy S GT-19000, running Android 2.1 operating systemCategory: HardwareHardware and softwareYou'd use it in the...Home and officeFirst impressions: what is it like to look at, to hold, to use?OK, so it's visually 7mm away from being an Apple iPhone 3GS, but don't let that distract from the Galaxy S's sleek exterior. At 118g, the Galaxy S is slightly lighter than the iPhone 4 but not noticeably so. It's also thinner but slightly taller than the iPhone.Thankfully Samsung opted for Google's Android (2.1) operating system for the touchscreen Galaxy S, making the phone much more flexible and intuitive than the Wave, Samsung's first Bada-powered device. With a 1GHz processor and a fair bit of memory available (8GB or 16GB, with capacity for an additional 32GB MicroSD card), completing tasks is zippy for the most part.What does it really do well?Some nice additional features (vintage layers, for example) complement the device's 5MP camera, which also allows quick and easy sharing by MMS, email or social networks. YouTube video playback is sharp, thanks to the Super AMOLED screen, but the app can be sluggish to load, even on a strong Wi-Fi connection.Most of all, it's a quick-response phone – allowing you to switch between apps and functions relatively painlessly. Web browsing suits the not-insubstantial screen well, despite the lack of Flash support – though the Bada-inspired font used on the Wave is easier on the eye than the Galaxy S choice.What's the cost?Available for free on a £35 per month 24-month contract or around £400 sim-free. Not hugely expensive for an iPhone-rivalling smartphone.What's it up against?The price and device specifications put the Galaxy S right among the best smartphones currently on the market. It's less expensive than the iPhone 4; you're getting a fair amount of bang for your buck.Blind us with the tech specs, then:A Super AMOLED screen (embeds touch sensors into display rather than layering over the top); Weight: 118g; Dimension: 64.2 x 122.4 x 9.9mm; 5MP camera; front-facing VGA camera for video calling; 720p video recording; on-board FM radio; 8GB or 16GB memory, with potential for 32GB MicroSD card upload; 1GHz processor; Android 2.1 operating system.What's it good for?Very nice for taking and sharing decent-quality photos quickly. With the Android operating system, the Galaxy S has all the potential – as opposed to the Wave which is mostly inhibited by running Bada. Of course, all this depends on how often Google updates the firmware and how quickly (or not, as seems to be the case) the various operators can push them out.One in 10 contract devices sold in the UK is now reportedly running Android, a software that suits Samsung's well-made hardware.What are its failings?I'd advise away from the Android Aldiko ebook reader, which was infuriating to use: slow to load, slow to respond to interaction and only able to fit 17 lines on the 4-inch screen. A weird stilted zooming inhibits an otherwise good browsing experience. And the browser address bar is unjustifiably big.Annoyingly, even when the cursor is blinking in text boxes the touchscreen keyboard requires another (needless) selection before allowing any text input.How big a pocket will I need (portable devices only)?Only 7mm taller than the iPhone 4, a normal pocket will suffice for the Galaxy S.How long is the battery life?On paper: talk time stands at 803 minutes (2G), 393 minutes (3G), standby mode at 750 hours (2G), 576 hours (3G).What's its USP?The big all-encompassing screen and its speed. The feature-rich relatively high quality camera also sets the Galaxy S apart as an excellent device, up there with the best of currently-available smartphones.Rating out of 10:8Finally, is it worth it – yes or no?Yes.
BlackBerry users who work in the Gulf states offer their views on the ban. (They all wished to remain completely anonymous.)• I work as a sales executive in Dubai. I think the ban is very unfair. It is so selfish of the authorities to ban an essential part of people's life.I use the BlackBerry for keeping in constant touch with my family and friends back home in Zambia; BlackBerry Messenger is the most cost effective way of keeping in touch. I'm always on the move so I use my BlackBerry to check the news as well as updating my Twitter and Facebook accounts.I work for a freight forwarding company and since I don't sit in the office for long, I use my BlackBerry to email and edit documents on the move.The BlackBerry is practically part of me and I use it from the time I wake up until the time I go to bed. I really don't know what I will do when the ban comes into effect, without it I feel a bit handicapped.• I live and work in the UAE. I have a corporate BlackBerry, which I use for work purposes such as emails, phone calls, and occasionally texts. It makes my job much more efficient as I don't have to log in to a computer to check basic emails. I do travel a lot so the BB is very handy when I don't have time or the ability to log into a computer.As for impact, it will mean less timely responses to emails, and it means more emails to deal with at certain points during the day.I believe it will set back business in Dubai, since business and technology seem to go hand in hand. Some businesses need to operate out of places like the UAE more than others, so it may persuade businesses that don't need to operate in the region to set up shop elsewhere.I'm not sure what the replacement strategy will be. From what it sounds like, the UAE has developed its own system and are touting that, however I doubt international businesses will buy into a UAE-developed system – corporate security is important, hence the popularity of BB.• I live and work in Dubai. I have a BB for work and personal use, we are a multinational company therefore BB and its services are useful to communicate globally with family and colleagues for free using BlackBerry Messenger. The one fee global data service is also advantageous.I am not over-reliant on the services, as my company only recently invested in the technology. It will not make work more difficult as we can more or less switch back to our old style of communication at the proverbial flick of a switch. However we would need to change handsets.Other businesses may not be so lucky. Many companies in the UAE are heavily reliant on the BB and have used it for years.The UAE has only recently improved internet services to optical fibre (in line with Europe) to make the service more affordable. I feel the BB issue is a massive step back.Having been here for a while, it is not a surprise!• I live in Dubai and work in Abu Dhabi. I think the impact will be quite substantial. My colleagues and I make ourselves available almost every hour of the day, we constantly check emails using our BBs. The UAE has very different ideas about working hours, and clients often contact us after the working day is over. The market is very competitive, so being able to respond to a request quickly and without the restrictions of location is very important.What will replace the BB? I hope they can sort it out so BB can stay in the market. iPhones and the like don't really cut it yet.I think it will be another kick for a country with an already waning economy, I think a lot of expat businesses are already a bit sick of the UAE's red tape.I'm not saying people are going to take their bat and ball home over losing the BlackBerry, but it all starts to add up.• I am a digital and media enthusiast living in Dubai and I will be switching to the iPhone when the ban comes into effect.I use BlackBerry Messenger very often because it helps me stay connected with friends around the world. I can chat with them anytime and I don't incur any additional text message charges which is great, I also check my personal emails and send replies instantly.A BlackBerry is not really useful to me without BBM and email. I bought the BlackBerry primarily because of BBM and because of email security.I am a BB addict, I never switch off. I tweet, check Facebook, chat with friends, keep in touch with colleagues, check in using Foursquare, use it to check work emails from home and organise notes using Evernote. I can't imagine using a regular phone.I can understand the ban from a national security point of view and would obviously prefer being safe in the country that I'm living in rather than having my privacy to chat with friends through BBM.However, these security issues haven't just cropped up recently, the ban is going to affect end-users the most and it seems like the ban has been announced without giving us much thought.It is all quite frustrating and quite typical – speak first, think later.Interviews by Adam Gabbatt and Ami Sedghi
If you're thinking that DeathSpank has to be this year's most strangely named game, you would be less than surprised to discovered that it is every bit as weird as it sounds. A download title for Xbox Live Arcade and the PlayStation Network, it is essentially a hack-n-slash (with typical character-improving RPG elements). But since it emanates from the developer run by Ron Gilbert, of Monkey Island fame, it manages, perhaps uniquely, to marry its hack-n-slash gameplay with lashings of offbeat humour and deeply stylised cartoon visuals.You play DeathSpank, a classic hero-type engaged on a quest for the not-very-illuminatingly-named Artefact – which involves interacting with non-aggressive characters and slaying vast swathes of enemies of all shapes and sizes, ranging from slug-like slime-blobs to big bosses. The quests generally involving traversing enemy-filled areas in order to collect objects – your first step on the trail of the Artefact involves convincing Heybenstance the witch to free her hex on it, by bringing her a crystal shard from the Slime Pits, Red Demon Imps' Horns and Hair of the Pixies (which turn out to be plants). That gives you some idea of the game's whimsical humour, which will be pleasantly familiar to Monkey Island fans.DeathSpank's controls, in keeping with the rest of the game, are pretty straightforward – you can assign four different (ranged and melee) weapons, one to each button, and it's important to use the right trigger to block whenever you come under attack. Well-timed blocks fill up your Justice Meter, which lets you launch powerful short-range attacks using a special Weapon of Justice – essential when you're beset by a gaggle of enemies. Much quaffing of health-restoring potions or food is required, as it's easy to take damage. You have to pay attention to enemies, too, as if they are much higher level, they will make short work of you. As you kill enemies and complete quests, you level up, gaining access to more effective armour and weapons, and improving your attributes. Hero Cards let you choose which attributes to boost.DeathSpank is very much a straight-up game which doesn't bother inventing surprising new game mechanics, but keeps you amused with its quirky humour and proves surprisingly addictive thanks to simple but all-action gameplay. If it set out to be a cross between Diablo and Monkey Island, it succeeds admirably and, for a download game, it's about as meaty as they come (side-quests are plentiful, and EA reckons it contains roughly 15 hours of gameplay). You can also encourage a friend to jump in co-operatively at any time. If the idea of a hack-n-slash with its tongue firmly embedded in its cheek appeals to you, DeathSpank will prove a very worthwhile download indeed.
BlackBerrys were once the preserve of the professional and managerial classes helping our leaders keep on top of their busy working lives with mobile email. But now the little black gadgets have spread to the mainstream – and are now not just the corporate smartphone of choice but, surprisingly, that of teenagers as well. So when and how did they become so popular?As a 19 year old, a BlackBerry appealed to me for many reasons. First things first; my friends had one. Having a BlackBerry is something of a craze and us teens like to follow suit.Another factor which influenced my decision was the BlackBerry messenger service, which allows you to instantly send a free message to your friends and teens generally like free things. So, while inter-railing around Europe this summer I was able to 'BBM' my friends at home without worrying about running up a hefty phone bill.As a student, I know most of us are strapped for cash 99% of the time. So another reason for choosing a BlackBerry was the reasonable price. Although the iPhone is similar to the BlackBerry the price is much higher, which for me was the deal breaker. My BlackBerry costs £25 per month which gives me free internet, free texts and 500 minutes of calls. The iPhone costs more than £30 per month and you usually have to pay for the phone itself, which can be another £200-300.Despite being 'Team BlackBerry' I realise that an iPhone is much better for storing music. However, although some friends have iPhones, they also have iPods which do pretty much the same thingSo, although teenagers don't actually 'need' a BlackBerry (I'm not important enough to get thousands of emails) I can relate to how and why they have become so popular.Friends have started to refer to their BlackBerrys as their 'babies' and some even sleep with them under their pillow. I'm ashamed to admit I feel a little lost without mine which is why I'm BlackBerry through and through.
Research In Motion, Canadian maker of BlackBerrys, is rumoured to be working on a rival to the iPad, dubbed the BlackPad by tech watchers.The device is scheduled for launch in November,according to reports, and will be roughly the same size as Apple's device. RIM has already acquired the rights to the blackpad.com internet domain.Users will be able to connect their BlackPad to the internet using the wireless connection of their mobile phone, rather than having to pay separately for 3G network access as users of the iPad must.The introduction of the iPad, which hit UK stores in May, has reinvigorated the market for so-called tablet computers.In its recent results, Apple said it has sold 3.27m worldwide. But Steve Jobs' Californian design empire is unlikely to have the market all to itself for long.Several computer manufacturers are planning tablet devices based on Google's rival Android software, which is already gaining a major foothold in the mobile phone market.Samsung is expected to launch the Galaxy tablet before the end of next month while LG plans to introduce one under its Optimus brand by Christmas.Separately, RIM will tomorrow launch its latest attempt to produce a viable alternative to the iPhone. The BlackBerry 9800 has both a touchscreen and a slide-out qwerty keyboard.RIM hopes it will be a viable alternative to both the new iPhone 4 and the plethora of devices being launched this year that use Android. Its previous forays into the world of touchscreens, with the BlackBerry Storm and Storm 2, met with mixed success.RIM has seen its share of the smartphone market dip as a result of fierce competition not just from the iPhone 4 but from Android devices such as the HTC Desire and Droid Incredible. In the first quarter of the year – which did not include the new iPhone – RIM had a 19.4% share of global shipments, down from 20.9% a year earlier, according to research house IDC. Apple claimed 16.1% of the smartphone market, up from 10.9% a year earlier.In the UK alone, sales of Android phones have risen by more than 300% from the beginning of the year, with one in 10 contract handsets sold in the UK now running Google's mobile operating system,according to figures from retail watcher GfK.
Peggy Orenstein in the New York Times has writtena superb piece about the psychology of Twitter, and how heavy use affects both our behaviour and defines, in one way, our identity. Orenstein's piece is a welcome and all-too-rare piece of reflection on how we use those tools.Photo byAntífamaon Flickr.Some rights reservedShe describes sharing a beautiful moment with her daughter, but how her experience became split between enjoying the moment and the impulse to split off and tweet about it. I know exactly what she means. Then again, that impulse to break away and record the moment also happens with using my camera and with drawing, so it's not new and not exclusive to technology."Back in the 1950s, the sociologist Erving Goffman famously argued that all of life is performance: we act out a role in every interaction, adapting it based on the nature of the relationship or context at hand. Twitter has extended that metaphor to include aspects of our experience that used to be considered off-set: eating pizza in bed, reading a book in the tub, thinking a thought anywhere, flossing. Effectively, it makes the greasepaint permanent, blurring the lines not only between public and private but also between the authentic and contrived self. If all the world was once a stage, it has now become a reality TV show: we mere players are not just aware of the camera; we mug for it."Each of us chooses what we present to the outside world, crafting a public identity - a identity that we want other people to see. Every tweet, every Facebook posting, every Flickr upload is part of reinforcing the image we want people to see. While she says she can't give Twitter up, she questions the expense of that compulsion to post:"When every thought is externalized, what becomes of insight? When we reflexively post each feeling, what becomes of reflection? When friends become fans, what happens to intimacy?"Orenstein concludes that she is trying to "gain some perspective on the perpetual performer's self-consciousness". Certainly it seems that collectively, our definition of what is personal and what is private is shifting towards openness. Ultimately, Twitter and the rest of our social media toolbox are just tools that take time and patience to learn and understand. The discipline to know when not to tweet is as important as the enthusiasm to share that started us doing it in the first place.
The decision of the United Arab Emiratesto ban BlackBerry email, messenger and web browsing servicesgoes to the heart of the way in which the handheld devices operate – itself a consequence of the mobile market in which they were born.When the first BlackBerry appeared, over a decade ago, mobile phone networks were far more basic than they are today. The most innovative service the majority of users had seen since mobile devices first appeared in the 1980s was the introduction of text messaging.In the US, many mobile users were still making calls on analogue networks, while in Europe the new digital operators were only just introducing data services. But the sorts of speeds possible over networks such as Orange and Cellnet in the UK were pitiful. Speeds of 9.6Kb per second – less than 1% of the average speed available in the UK today,according to recent research– meant the networks had to resort to offering a pared-down version of the internet using Wap (Wireless application protocol) technology. Using a mobile phone to receive email, let alone access the "real" internet was almost unheard of.By the mid-1990s, Canada's Research In Motion (RIM) was already working with partners on a messaging device that would work on a new wireless data network, which its owners hoped would be rolled out across Europe and the US. It was not much of a success – although the UK network that used this technology eventually becameTurbo Dispatch, which now sends mechanics from local garages to help millions of stranded motorists every year.As a result, RIM switched to working with the existing mobile phone companies, but to squeeze emails across their networks meant using compression technology. RIM also needed to be able to persuade jittery corporate IT departments their emails would be safe, which required encryption technology. To create such a lean and secure service required an end-to-end solution, with both the device, the BlackBerry, and the server hosting the user's email being able to understand each other. However, RIM wanted to be able to offer its devices on any mobile phone network.As a result, it created the Network Operations Centre (Noc), which seems to have created such a headache in the Gulf. Every mobile phone operator that wants to offer BlackBerry devices has to have a connection to a Noc: – there is apparently one based in Canada to cover the Americas and one covering Europe and Asia. A company that wants to offer BlackBerrys to its employees, meanwhile, has to install software within its own IT systems that can communicate with the Noc.When a user's inbox receives a new email, that software securely communicates with the Noc, which then connects securely to the BlackBerry over a mobile phone network to deliver the email. It uses compression technology to make sure the email can be squeezed over even the most congested network. Numerous research reports over the past year have suggested that BlackBerrys are at least five times more efficient at email and attachment viewing than any other platform.RIM has since opened its network up to consumer email services such as Gmail and Hotmail, which together with the introduction of a range of stylish devices aimed at the consumer market has created a boom in usage of BlackBerry phones among teenagers. Opening up the RIM network to the web has also allowed internet browsing, which is also apparently faster on a BlackBerry than other devices. They are three times more efficient than other carriers,according to a recent report by Rysavy Research.But there is another side-effect to the way that RIM's network architecture is configured and it has been seized upon by cash-strapped teenagers: BlackBerry Messenger. Because RIM knows every BlackBerry device in use, regardless of which network it is on, and they are all directly connected to its Nocs, BlackBerry users who have devices with the right software can communicate with each other without incurring the network interconnection and roaming charges associated with text messages.Text messages and telephone calls, meanwhile, are routed solely over a mobile phone network, so neither will be affected by the UAE's decision. That also explains why when there is a problem with RIM's network –which has happened in the past– BlackBerry users can still make calls.The first BlackBerry appeared in the late 1990s and was effectively a two-way pager. The first full email device – the 5810 – appeared in 2002.The name, incidentally, was created by the company's brand agency, which looked at the trademark small buttons on the device's keyboard and decided they looked like the pips on a strawberry. That name, however, sounded too "slow". Blackberry sounded punchier and it stuck.
Electronic Arts has unveiled an ambitious new design package named Create – and as you can see from the video above, we've been given an exclusive interview with Rod Humble, senior vice president of EA's casual gaming division, EA Play, who's overseeing the project.Set for release next year on PC, Mac and console the title will allow gamers to construct their own 3D worlds using a simple set of tools, menus and customisable items. In the demo footage we've seen, the player assembles a stunt car track complete with ramps and realistic physics properties, and a space station with controllable star craft flying overhead. Judging by this footage, the game seems to use a drag-and-drop interface, allowing players to grab objects from a menu and place them anywhere on the screen. The game is PlayStation Move compatible, which should offer a more intuitive way to chuck stuff about in your virtual art studio.According to EA's press release, you'll be able to employ a vast selection of textures, brushes, stickers and ready-made animating objects to populate scenes. However, it seems there's no Spore-style character creation element, so users will have to think outside the box if they want to construct human inhabitants. Meanwhile, they can complete up to 100 design challenges to unlock new areas, and learn about the possibilities. In order to beat these tasks, users have to select and manipulate available objects in a variety of emergent ways, to move items from one end of the screen to another.PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Mac and PC owners will be able to upload their creations to a dedicated website, which works just like the "Exchange" system used by fans of The Sims to swap game content. There's also a "succession" co-op mode where users can pass projects to and from their friends, taking it in turns to add new elements.So is it an art package or a game creator? Humble says it's actually neither. And both. "On one hand you can just make 2D scenes," he explains. "If you just want to paint a picture in your living room without any mess, you can do that. The next step is similar to the way paintings work in Harry Potter – you can make them a little bit alive and add a touch of interactivity, So for example, I like to draw landscapes in Create, and once I've added the clouds, I just give a little flick to create some wind and they drift across the screen. Or you can go all the way to a fully interactive 3D scene where you've decided you're going to put in a challenge where the player has to collect four objects to make X happen. You really can do anything with it on that spectrum. It's not a game maker it's not a 3D art tool, it's this lovely mush in between."In some ways, there are clearly elements of The Sims in here, but also user-generated content games like Little Big Planet and Trackmania. Humble acknowledges the comparisons, but denies there's a link. "I'm certainly a big fan of LBP but I don't think we're really in competition," he says. "It's got a great game in the centre and you add bits too it […] With Create, you can build up whatever you want out of the blocks." Instead, he points out EA's own heritage in the creative gaming arena – the company once developed and published Deluxe Paint, essentially the de facto art package on the Commodore Amiga during the eighties and early nineties. The demo we've seen, with its emphasis on physics challenges and drag-and-drop items, actually reminds us more of The Incredible Machine, the legendary physics-based puzzler series that required players to fulfil specific tasks by building wacky contraptions out of an array of objects.Humble certainly has plenty of experience with offbeat gaming projects. He was executive producer on The Sims for several years, and before that oversaw the growth of the formative MMORPG Everquest, at Sony Online Entertainment. He's also a keen experimental games designer, working on his own innovative coding projects. "In my position you tend to manage more and more, but I like to get hands on. So I make a lot of little art games in my spare time which are very experimental. I made a game that looks like two cubes interacting, but it's actually about my marriage. The last game I made was called Stars Over Half Moon Bay, which is where I live; it's just about staring up at the stars and making patterns. Right now I'm making a series of text games. I'm exploring strategy and just getting rid of the graphics altogether, just to see what I can do."Currently in development at EA's Bright Light studio in the UK, it's an intriguingly open-ended project – the sort of thing you might see coming out of the indie community, if in a much more modest and less professionally presented form. We've also seen plenty of more limited art and design packages on handheld and smartphone platforms, including Nintendo's Art Academy for the DS. But will there be mass interest in a more ambitious and demanding title – one with no immediately obvious gaming application, and with a genuine sandbox approach to design? Humble is naturally confident. "When we released The Sims we didn't know who would play it," he argues. "I'm hoping for the broadest possible audience."
UK top 10 games chart, week ending July 31 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Starcraft Ii: Wings Of Liberty(16+)PC (100)12 (1)Toy Story 3(3+)DS (31)Wii (23)PS3 (23)Xbox 360 (19)33 (2)Red Dead Redemption(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)114 (3)Dance On Broadway(12+)Wii (100)55 (4)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (30)DS (26)Xbox 360 (25)PS3 (18)66 (8)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)347 (9)Dragon Quest Ix: Sentinels Starry Skies(12+)DS (100)28 (11)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2(18+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (46)PC (3)DS (1)389 (6)Super Mario Galaxy 2(3+)Wii (100)810 (12)Battlefield: Bad Company 2(16+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (36)PC (18)22Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2009ELSPA(UK) Ltd
That Facebook IPO may be even further off than previously thought ...  Areportby Bloomberg  cites insiders who say that the company may wait until 2012 for an IPO. The previous expected date was 2011, because two top investorshad saidin January that the IPO wouldn't be happening this year.The stated excuse, according to Bloomberg, is that "Facebook would benefit from another year of growth absent the added scrutiny that comes with a public listing" and that the delay will give it "more time to gain users and boost sales". Perhaps. But how much bigger, and will investors be that much more impressed two years from now?Facebook already has huge usage and sales figures. The companysaid last weekthat it now has 500 million users, while the most recentestimates putits revenue in 2009 at between $700 and $800m.Photo byOversocializedon Flickr.Some rights reserved
Less than a week after the US Library of Congress established the "jailbreaking" of Apple iPhones as "fair use", a plucky hacker yesterday launched a browser-based service to do just that.JailbreakMe 2.0will "jailbreak" – unlock from restrictions imposed by the manufacturer – the Apple iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad when visited from the device. Last week the Copyright Office at the Library of Congress ruled in favour of theElectronic Frontier Foundationin deeming that the jailbreaking of mobile devices is not illegal, an argument that Apple contested.During the hearing, a spokesperson for the EFF estimated that "more than a million" iPhone owners have already unlocked their devices "in order to change wireless providers". Now customers climbing the walls of Apple's well-documented "walled garden" approach to devices could easily become unburdened, with the number of jailbroken devices likely to significantly increase. Before browser-based unlocking – JailbreakMe is thought to be the first website to offer such a service – users had to download an application to their computer desktop and go from there.Early problems arebeing reportedby those using the service. At the time of writing, both MMS and Facetime (the latter iPhone 4 only) are said to be disabled.Apple has always insisted restrictions placed on its devices – such as those that disallow certain applications entry to the App Store – are necessary to protect the consumer, warning that jailbreaking voids a device's warranty.A statementreleased by the companyafter last week's case read: "Apple's goal has always been to ensure that our customers have a great experience with their iPhone and we know that jailbreaking can severely degrade the experience. As we've said before, the vast majority of customers do not jailbreak their iPhones as this can violate the warranty and can cause the iPhone to become unstable and not work reliably."Unlocked Apple devices can be returned to out-of-the-box state by clicking "Restore" when connected to iTunes.The legality of jailbreaking in the UK is less clear than that in the US because of the lack of legal precedent set inside the EU. Andres Guadamuz, an IT law lecturer at the University of Edinburgh,told Wired UK: "Although you might be breaking Apple's terms and conditions and voiding your warranty, I just can't see how a judge would rule against it."So why, after paying a small fortune for one of Apple's devices, would you void your warranty and jailbreak? Well, partly because in most cases the handset can be easily and quickly returned to its non-jailbroken state, and partly because doing so can fundamentally transform your using of it. Of course, when you have taken the plunge your device is significantly less insulated from malicious "worms" previously weeded out by Apple. It's your call – but what do the readers think?Commenter Jaxxstormwarnsagainst this particular jailbreak, saying: "this site is a target for mailicous hackers. If anyone has a DNS vulnerability which they've held back they could redirect the jailbreakme site to a different webserver and deliver a malicious payload. All hell could break loose."  Smashy79saysthey're happy with their non-jailbroken iPhone 4, adding: "I tried it with my old 3G, but so many of the apps were so unstable, that it took something away from the experience, as I'd install an app and just use it with baited breath, waiting for it to crash." Tehwalrussees the pointin jailbreaking for app developers, but isn't convinced it's necessary for "ordinary users," "apart from being able to install buggy apps." Petehindle reflects on his experiences of jailbreaking the iPhone 3G: "No wonder these applications [post-jailbreaking] can't be got via Apple, as they are either useless or worthless [...]"There do seem to be three useful applications, only two of which are legal: a tethering app (to use the 3G connection when out and about - of which I think O2 might have something to say), a wireless syncing app, and a bluetooth keyboard app. None of these applications are free, and seeing as they aren't mission critical for me I don't think I'll chance paying for dodgy software."Am I glad I jailbroke my phone? Not really, it was pointless [...] Maybe Jailbreak will grow up and be something useful in the future, but right now it's just for nerds."Are you planning to jailbreak using JailbreakMe? Let us know how you get on in the comments below.
The United Arab Emirates is banning users of BlackBerry mobile phones from using email, instant-messaging and web-browsing services in a long-running spat over security with the device's Canadian maker, RIM.Saudi Arabia is expected to follow suit according to an official from the state-controlled Saudi Telecom,who told the Financial Timesthat the kingdom would ban BlackBerry messenger services.The Gulf states have become increasingly concerned that encryption technology used by BlackBerry devices makes it difficult to monitor them, and that, because of the way the BlackBerry network functions, data is exported offshore. India has also expressed concerns about the way that BlackBerry devices operate.The Telecommunications Regulatory Authority said on Sunday that services in the UAE will be suspended as of 11 October because of the failure of attempts, dating back to 2007, to bring BlackBerry services in-line with UAE telecoms regulations. UAE's two telecoms operators –Etisalatanddu– informed their BlackBerry customers of the decision by text. There are roughly half a million BlackBerry users in the emirate.The regulator stressed that the decision was not about censorship but about regulatory compliance, producing adetailed comparison of telecoms regulation in the UAE, UK and USin an attempt to make its case."We are not asking for RIM to do anything that is not apparently being done in developed nations or so-called open countries around the world," said Mohammed al-Ghanim, director-general of the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority.Specialist encryptionBut the UAE has attempted to monitor BlackBerry users in the past. A year ago,Etisalat told BlackBerry users to install an upgrade that turned out to be spyware. When the purpose of the software was discovered the government distanced itself from Etisalat and told users to remove the update.Unlike other mobile devices, BlackBerry mobile phones access the internet and email through RIM's own network of secure Network Operations Centres around the world using specialist encryption. Any mobile phone company operating the devices must connect to this proprietary system. As a result, BlackBerry devices are more secure and more network capacity efficient than other so-called smartphones. But the fact that data is leaving the jurisdiction of national courts has worried some governments who fear they may not be able to monitor the communications of terrorists and other criminals, even for reasons of national security.The news, which will be a blow to the legion of BlackBerry users in the Gulf, comes as RIM is expected to launch its latest attempt to produce a viable alternative to the iPhone. The BlackBerry 9800, to be unveiled tomorrow, has both a touchscreen and a slide-out qwerty keyboard.RIM hopes that it will be a viable alternative to both the new iPhone 4 and the plethora of devices that are being launched this year which use Google's Android operating system. Its previous forays into the world of touchscreens, with theBlackberry StormandStorm 2, met with mixed success.RIM is also rumoured to be working on a rival to the iPad. Dubbed by tech watchers the BlackPad, the device is scheduled for launch in November,according to reports, and will be roughly the same size as the Apple device. But users will be able to connect their BlackPad to the internet using the wireless connection of their mobile phone, rather than having to pay separately for 3G network access as they must with the iPad.Several computer manufacturers are also planning Android-based tablet computers this year. Samsung will launch the Galaxy tablet before the end of next month and LG plans to introduce one under its Optimus brand by Christmas.
My weekend gaming was dominated by the iPad. Plants Vs Zombies (the best iPad game yet?), Mirror's Edge, Osmosis and Command &amp; Conquer: Red Alert all got some gaming time. Crackdown 2 got a look in on the 360 too, but the iPad won out - primarily because you can grab a quick 10 mins play. What about you though? How was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 11 links for you to kick off a new week, as picked by the Technology team•UAE to Ban BlackBerry E-mail, Web Browsing and Messaging &gt;&gt; Mashable•Steve Ballmer Has No Respect For An Android Tablet &gt;&gt; Business Insider•WWDC 2011: Mac OS X 10.7 to Introduce New Revolutionary Feature? &gt;&gt; Redmond Pie•Motorola Sage: AT&amp;T's next Android phone? &gt;&gt; Engadget•Bing and Google in an Arms Race for Features &gt;&gt; New York Times•Delhi Police Use Facebook to Track Scofflaw Drivers &gt;&gt; New York Times•Microsoft continues to emphasize â€œthe cloudâ€ &gt;&gt; Venture Beat•The Google Investor: Betting The Farm On Social And Android &gt;&gt; Business Insider•Technology Races to Meet Tide of Data &gt;&gt; New York Times•Domain name investing &gt;&gt; Financial Times•UI Centric Proves A Windows 7 Tablet Could Beat The iPad At Its Own Game &gt;&gt; The Next WebYou can follow GuardianTechnology's linkbucketon delicious
It has been accused of proliferating pointless babble online and the 20 billionth message on Twitter will have done little to rebut such criticism.The exact meaning of the landmark tweet on Saturday bya graphic designer in Tokyois difficult to work out as it was part of a larger conversation:"So that means the barrage might come back later all at once."But his reaction to having sent the 20 billionth tweet since the microblogging site launched in July 2006 was much easier to understand."It looks like I posted the 20 billionth tweet. I'm getting replies from people all over the world. It's scary. What are the chances? Maybe I'm going to die. Is it more amazing than winning the lottery? I thought it was a joke," he wrote moments later.Twitter's popularity in Japan has soared in the past year with the company estimating that the Japanese send about 12% of all tweets worldwide, second only to the US.One reason for this surge is that it is possible to say much more in Japanese than in English within Twitter's 140 character limit. Twitter activity reached an all time high of 3,283 tweets per second during the Japan-Denmark game in this year's World Cup.It is just two months since Twitter's 15-billionth tweet and only five months since the ten billionth, which took four years to reach. Worldwide around 300,000 users are signing up for new accounts every day.
Haunted by a revealing photograph  from your drink-mad office party posted on Facebook? Berated by an ex-lover on a blog posting? Or is your business being skewered online by a vindictive customer? Then Gary Powers is waiting to hear from you. He can help.In the modern digital age where seemingly everything and everyone is online, a new industry is emerging to "manage" the internet footprint that people and businesses leave online. "Reputation managers" can clean up and shape a person's online history: burying the damaging stuff and promoting the good.Given the numbers of famous people who arguably are in need of such a service, and the millions of others leaving an online footprint around the world every day, the potential market is dazzling.Kate Moss is already rumoured to be using online brand reputation management to make sure Google searchers come to positive stories first. By contrast, due to recent online leakings of abusive rants about his ex-girlfriend, actor Mel Gibson's fourth result on a Google search is a negative gossip story.The same goes for Paris Hilton, the socialite and heiress. The fifth result on a Google search for her brings up disputed  claims that customs officers in Corsica had found marijuana in her purse and had briefly detained her. A good reputation manager might be able to push that story down Hilton's Google results chain. Lindsay Lohan, currently in jail, is famed for use of her Twitter account where she frequently sends out ill-advised updates. A reputation manager could help to suppress those Tweets or even try to get them deleted.Powers, who works for a US company called ReputationDefender, is paid to help promote the positive, hide the negative and even have hostile internet postings removed altogether. Fees vary across the industry. For $15 (£9.50) a month, ReputationDefender will work with a client to clean up and monitor their internet reputation. They can also send you an alert whenever a new reference to your child is posted anywhere online. For $30, they will try to destroy hostile internet content. In 2008 the firm raised $2.6m in investment funding."We get people from all walks of life," said Powers, the company's "head writer". People who come to the firm for assistance range from professionals, like lawyers or doctors, to those involved in the entertainment industry; anyone who is concerned that someone, somewhere, might search for them online.Increasingly the results of a Google search can affect the most important elements of people's lives. A recent Microsoft study showed that 78% of job recruiters conducted internet searches on their clients in order to check out their backgrounds. Experts say that the huge growth of the internet has in effect created a "permanent memory" online that can be searched by anyone. Embarrassing statements, and photographs, or angry attacks by spiteful ex-friends once faded away. But no longer. Anyone can be judged forever on a moment of madness or bad luck.There are now many firms offering help in keeping people's online history safe. They include companies and websites like Online Reputation Manager, Reputation Professor and Reputation Management Partners. It is an industry that has arisen almost overnight. ReputationDefender was founded in 2006 and now employs dozens of people from its base in Redwood City, California. David Thompson, chief privacy officer at ReputationDefender, sees the sector as involved in an "arms race" with web developments that erode people's privacy. "If they are building a better gun, we are building a better bullet-proof vest," he said.Some developments can be potentially scary. Facial recognition software will allow the internet to recognise – and make potentially searchable – any photograph in which someone appears, even if only in the background (say at a riot, protest or orgy). Experts warn that  everything we do on the internet can be collected and collated digitally. All that information is tracked, gathered and used by marketers who then build up a detailed profile of the consumer.Professor Joseph Turow, of the University of Pennsylvania, believes this "unknown reputation" that everyone has will eventually lead to people having very different experiences online. "People will be defined by marketers in ways they know nothing about, and this is a process that is getting bigger and bigger," Turow said.Turow spoke in front of the US Senate last week appealing for government regulation. "Most people do not have a clue this is going on. They don't even know they have a reputation online that is being used in this way," Turow said.Eventually, experts predict, millions will employ someone to manage the traces they leave, perhaps even those who work in reputation management.Does Powers employ someone to manage his own online history? Not yet. Instead he cuts the problem off at the source, trying not to leave a trace in the first place. "I have a very low profile. I kind of like that," he said.
In the annals of the net, one of the sacred texts is John Gilmore's aphorism that "the internet interprets censorship as damage and routes around it".Mr Gilmoreis a celebrated engineer, entrepreneur and libertarian activist, who is regarded by the US Department of Homeland Security, the National Security Agency and men in suits everywhere as a pain in the ass. He was the fifth employee of Sun Microsystems, which meant that he made a lot of money early in life, and he has devoted the rest of his time to spending it on a variety of excellent causes. These include: creating the "alt" (for alternative) hierarchy in theUsenet discussion fora; open-source software; drugs law reform; philanthropy; and the Electronic Frontier Foundation (which last weekwon a notable concessionfrom the Library of Congress to legalise the "jailbreaking" of one's iPhone – ie liberating it from Apple's technical shackles).The Gilmore aphorism about censorship first saw the light of day in 1993 – in aTimearticle about the internet – and since then has taken on a life of its own as a consoling mantra about the libertarian potential of the network. "In its original form," Gilmore explains, "it meant that the Usenet software (which moves messages around in discussion newsgroups) was resistant to censorship because, if a node drops certain messages because it doesn't like their subject, the messages find their way past that node anyway by some other route." But, he continues, "The meaning of the phrase has grown through the years. Internet users have proven it time after time, by personally and publicly replicating information that is threatened with destruction or censorship."The aphorism came up a lot last week following publication by theGuardian, theNew York TimesandDer Spiegelof extensive reports based on the stash ofclassified US military reports published on the WikiLeakswebsite. And of course in one sense this latest publishing coup does appear to confirm Gilmore's original insight. But at the same time it grossly underestimates the amount of determination and technical ingenuity needed to make sure that the aphorism continues to hold good.The sad truth is that, in practice, it is now trivially easy to censor the web. In most jurisdictions all you need to do is pay a lawyer to send a threatening letter to the ISP that hosts an offending site. The letter can allege defamation, or copyright infringement or privacy violations or a host of other grounds. The details usually don't matter because, nine times out of 10, the ISP will immediately shut down the site, oftenwithout bothering to check whether your complaints have any validity. The reason: a legal precedent set by the so-called"demon internet" case, which established that an ISP may be held liable for damages if it fails to act on a complaint. Most companies won't want to take the risk, so they pull the plug. QED.So if the WikiLeaks operation depended on simply putting stuff on a website, then the governments and corporations who feel threatened by its exposures would have easily wiped it out years ago. Its durability is a product not just of the commitment of the activists behind it, but also of a sophisticated technical infrastructure which uses cryptography to ensure that every node in its virtual pipeline except the final, public, site isvirtually impossible to identify.At the heart of this isTor, an open-source implementation of a networking technology which uses cryptography to pass data from router (internet node) to router in such a way that the identity of each is hidden. (The technology is derived from an earlier, multi-layered approach known as "the onion router" – hence the acronym.) As luck would have it, Tor is also a technology routinely used by governments to pass secret information around, so there's a nicely ironic side to WikiLeaks' deployment of it.Tor provides a way of publishing information so that it's extremely difficult to trace content to a particular internet address. This is good news for WikiLeaks geeks, but less so for the average whistleblower because it requires a level of technical expertise  most people don't possess. Which is why most whistleblowers will have to rely on the old-fashioned approach of putting stuff on lots of websites and social networks in the hope that it will be widely replicated. This may ensure that John Gilmore's aphorism continues to hold. But it will also mean that the whistleblowers' identities will be exposed. So if you have anything to reveal, try sending it to WikiLeaks first.
As its lengthy subtitle – "Learn Painting and Drawing Techniques with Step-by-Step Training" – suggests,Art Academyis a tool to help people learn painting and drawing techniques. Even more than most titles based on popular pastimes, it begs the question "why not try the real thing?" but this is undoubtedly cheaper than a set of paints and an easel, even if stylus and touchscreen seem a poor substitute for oil on canvas.Through a series of step-by-step tutorials, players are talked through the basics of constructing a piece of art, as simple pencil sketches build into full-colour paintings. The toolset is at once accessible and comprehensive, with different pencil and brush types to choose from, while an artist's palette allows the user to mix colours to precisely the shade they're after. Those with a DSi can take photos as reference points before adding grid lines to help ensure an accurate transfer.There's a remarkable verisimilitude to the actual process, with some superb audio feedback subtly conveying the scratch of a pencil or the gentle scuff of brush on paper. Dry bristles scrape patterns in washes created by water-soaked strokes, as creative instincts take over and this accomplished little package becomes an addictive and surprisingly satisfying time-sink.
For all its brooding, monochrome minimalism Playdead studio'sLimbodoes a great deal to dazzle. In fact, much of its brilliance is the work of smoke and mirrors, for underneath its "games as art" styling is a traditional platform-jumping puzzle title.That isn't to undermine the quality of this morbid picture book turned disturbed nightmare. In form and functionLimbois superb; it's just a great deal more conventional than its abstract artistic veil suggests. Its rudimentary structure is remarkably basic: the player's task is to guide an anonymous and largely silhouetted boy through a shadow-drenched forest and beyond, towards some unspoken end to which the antihero protagonist is committed.Realised in an entirely two-dimensional plane, most ofLimbofocuses on exploration, jumping between platforms and solving large puzzles made of levers, ropes, sliding blocks and other classic gameplay fodder. Effectively one long level,Limbois nonetheless filled with enough good ideas to make it hard to put down. Good puzzle design is in plentiful supply.Seemingly set in a distant purgatory,Limbo's light-starved world is beautiful and at the same time monstrously gloomy. Odd dapples of sunlight reveal hints of unfriendly landscapes and, darker still, shapes that tease at the imagination's most macabre corners. Shadows in the grass suggest the discarded bodies of lost children, while gentle swarms of flies hover over pools of liquid with menacing suggestion. Visually, then,Limbois captivating, and despite a lack of narrative, it evokes a universe that combines Lewis Caroll's knack for the absurd with the underlying violence ofGrimm's Fairy Tales. For many action-hungry gamers raised on a diet of photorealistic visuals and big-budget effectsLimbomay just be too modest in its composition, but for those undeterred by subtlety and the morose aesthetic, it offers something truly special.Arguably, the attempt to popularise  esoteric, artistic gaming  through release on a mass-market console is undermined by the title's lack of innovative gameplay. However,Limbohandles platform and puzzle gaming in the classic form with enough sophistication and creativity to ensure that things always feel fresh and challenging, and in reality, it stands against some of the genre greats as an example of just how evocative and wonderful the platform game can be.
Earlier this week, London's gaming elite were treated to the midnight launch ofStarCraft II: Wings of Liberty, the latest venture fromWorld of Warcraftdevelopers – and social-life obliterators – Blizzard Entertainment.After an extended hiatus from theStarCraftseries, unsurprising given Blizzard's reputation for slippery release dates (don't even bother asking aboutDiablo III),SII:WoLpicks up from its futuristic real-time strategy predecessor with the same three life-forms: the renegade human "Terrans", the intelligent psychic "Protoss" species, and the grotesque insectoid "Zerg", still battling for ascendancy inStarCraft's far-off galaxy.For the uninitiated, starting the series from scratch would provide useful context, but mercifully (given the magnitude of the task) this is largely unnecessary as the sequel offers a gentle learning curve and introduction to the story.SII:WoL's innovations are mostly seen in its presentation, with movie-quality cut scenes and smooth in-game rendering; however the most significant change is in the Massively Multiplayer Online (MMO) element. Be warned though: in South KoreaStarCraftis less a game and more a life choice. Indeed, the hysteria surrounding it borders on the surreal, with jumbo jet fleets bearing the game's branding and top gamers practically seen as national heroes – so you may want to hone your skills before venturing online.
With all the fuss surrounding Antennagate (the iPhone 4's kryptonite is, apparently, "being held left-handed") people have all but forgotten that it offers far more than just telephony.For example, combining the highly expensive gizmo with sprinklers, spades and forks in the garden may not seem like a good idea, but to write off theGardening Toolkit(Apple App Store £2.39, Applied Objects) for fear of damaging the device would be a crying shame. It's packed with useful advice and information for even the least green-fingered among us, offering an encyclopedia of flora and fauna, handy notebooks, and an international calendar to ensure you're not planting  rhododendrons at the wrong time of year for your location. Combined with simple-to-understand advice on all manner of plant life and how best to treat them, it makes your phone as essential as a watering can.Just as successful, and equally practical,Real Tools(Apple App store £1.19, Bahn Tech), promises 18 handy DIY functions in one. It's easy to see how an iPhone could be used as a brick or doorstop, yet they're not included. Instead, it's successfully transformed into plumb bob, ruler, measuring tape and quite amazingly, a scale. Of course, they can't quite match the real thing, but for one device that can fit in your pocket to perform so many functions is pretty remarkable. Just remember not to use it as a hammer though. Especially with your left hand.
The fresh-faced 39-year-old man, in a dark T-shirt and jeans, is talking about&nbsp;travelling to Mars. Not now, but when he's older and ready to swap life on Earth for one on the red planet. "It would be a good place to retire," he says in all&nbsp;seriousness. Normally, this would be the time to make one's excuses and leave the company of a lunatic. Or to smile politely and humour a space nerd's unlikely fantasies. But this man needs to be taken seriously for one compelling&nbsp;reason: he already has his own spaceship.This is Elon Musk, a brilliant entrepreneur who made a fortune from the internet and has invested vast amounts of it in building his own private&nbsp;space rocket company,SpaceX. Indeed, far from being crazy, Musk is thereal-life inspiration for the movie character Tony Stark, the playboy scientist hero of theIron Manfranchise.There are some similarities. Outside the SpaceX plant in the baking southern California sun, Musk's sexy electric sports car sits in a reserved parking space (he co-founded Tesla, the firm which makes the vehicle), resembling the sort of motor Stark would drive. Musk is also engaged to the beautiful British actressTalulah Riley, star ofSt Trinian'sandSt Trinian's 2, and he used to get thrills from flying his own private military jet fighter.What's more, like Stark, Musk is on a mission to save the world. But while Stark's aim was to battle evil-doers and achieve world peace, Musk's mission is a little grander. He wants to secure humanity's future by turning the human race into a space-faring people able to colonise other planets. It's the only way, Musk believes, that we can be saved, either from destroying ourselves or from some outside calamity. To put it mildly, Musk thinks big and takes the long view. "It's important that we attempt to extend life beyond Earth now," he says in an accent hinting at his childhood in South Africa. "It is the first time in the four billion-year history of Earth that it's been possible and that window could be open for a long time – hopefully it is – or it could be open for a short time. We should err on the side of caution and do something now."SpaceX is Musk's attempt to do that something. Its headquarters are situated within earshot of the busy runways of Los Angeles International airport. The company's logo stands proudly on an otherwise nondescript hangar-sized building. But inside, a revolution in space travel could be taking place.The factory floor has been roughly organised into an assembly line to make space rockets, part of a process of wresting the future of space travel out of the hands of government bodies, such as Nasa, and into the hands of private businesses. Using its hyper-efficient Merlin engines, SpaceX has successfully flown its first rocket, Falcon 1, up into space, where it put a satellite into orbit. Then it successfully flew the much bigger Falcon 9 rocket earlier this year. Now the company is working on Dragon, a space capsule that will sit on top of a Falcon 9 and deliver first cargo – and then, hopefully, astronauts – to the International Space Station.That is stunning stuff. SpaceX, which was only founded in 2002, is not even a decade old. Yet it is doing things in space that some countries with their own national space programmes have not yet achieved. "When we launched the initial rocket actually leaving the launch pad, that was awesome," Musk says, gazing at the Dragon module being built. "Getting into orbit was when a lot of people thought: OK, it's real. That's something that South Korea tried a couple of times and they failed. Brazil tried three times and they failed. This is normally something a country does, and only a few countries have succeeded."SpaceX is not alone in aiming for the stars. A raft of private firms have joined in a new space race. Jeff Bezos, founder of Amazon, is building a suborbital rocket called the Blue Origin New Shepard. John D Carmack, the man behind video gamesDoomandQuake,has his eyes on a lunar landing. Virgin Atlantic boss Richard Branson is aiming to kickstart space tourism with his Virgin Galactic project. Yet SpaceX is the most advanced and ambitious. Its rockets have already flown into space and it has won hundreds of millions of dollars worth of business contracts for future voyages.Incredibly, however, SpaceX does not feel like a huge operation. It defeats the received wisdom that only major world powers, or gigantic corporations such as Boeing, can truly set their sights on leaving the grip of Earth's gravity. Instead, SpaceX feels like a dotcom company. Inside the factory are all the accoutrements one expects of a booming Silicon Valley enterprise. All the office space is open-plan and even Musk has an open cubicle like everyone else. Employees – who dub themselves SpaceXers – wear casual T-shirts and are not afraid to sport goatee beards and a smattering of tattoos. They often travel around the assembly floor on tricycles and until recently, before SpaceX's employee roster topped 1,000 people, Musk was personally involved in every single appointment. He believes the "all in it together" work culture of a start-up is vital to achieve the firm's staggeringly ambitious agenda. "People work better when they know what the goal is and why. It is important that people look forward to coming to work in the morning and enjoy working."In fact, SpaceX's Silicon Valley-style culture springs from Musk's own background as one of the most successful – and wealthy – figures to emerge from the internet. His interest in technology began early. He bought his first computer at the age of 10 when he was growing up in Pretoria, South Africa, the son of a Canadian model and a South African engineer. Musk taught himself to write computer programs and sold his first commercial software – fittingly, a space game calledBlastar– when he was just 12. He left at 17 to work on a relative's farm in Canada, before going to the University of Pennsylvania. He graduated with two degrees, one in physics and the other in economics, before winning a place in 1995 at Stanford as a graduate student. He stayed there for two days before fleeing to start his first internet company, Zip2, which produced publishing software. In 1999, he sold it for more than $300m (£193m) and co-founded X.com, which eventually turned into PayPal. It was sold to eBay in 2002 for $1.5bn.All of which left Musk wealthy beyond belief and could have led to a life of idle bliss. But besides being a very rich man, Musk is a determined one. Talking to him is a slightly unsettling experience. He is open and friendly, but there is a sense that – on some level – he is operating on a slightly higher plane. Asked why he does what he does, he gives an answer that seems rehearsed but rings totally sincere. "When I was in college there were three areas that I thought most would affect the future of humanity. Those were the internet, the transition to a sustainable energy economy, and space exploration and ultimately extending life beyond Earth and making it multi-planetary."For Musk, the best way to achieve that third goal was to popularise space travel and make it affordable. Thus SpaceX and its fleet of rockets were born. He investigated the science behind rocket launching and concluded that there was no real reason why it was so expensive. He believed the space industry was dominated by inefficient government bodies. By starting afresh, and going back to basics, Musk believed getting into space could be done quickly and cheaply. He was right. SpaceX's Merlin engines are beautifully engineered and powerful, but simply made. They run on highly refined kerosene that costs less than petrol. The rockets they power – in the shape of the Falcon 1 and Falcon 9 – are also simple. They have fewer stages (where one bit of the rocket separates from the other) than their rivals and are mostly re-usable. Thus they can put cargo into space for a fraction of the cost.The Dragon module is also a throwback. It looks nothing like the space shuttle, which it essentially hopes to replace as the "taxi" service to the International Space Station. Instead, it resembles something from the 60s, being shaped like a shuttlecock. Not that Musk cares about looks. He just cares about the fact that it is being designed with windows: a sign of his commitment to one day put astronauts, including himself, inside it. "I would like to go up in a Dragon at some point," he says. A few years after its first flying. I think it would be great, huge amounts of fun. A very life-changing experience."Of course, Musk's life has already changed. You can't be a real-life Tony Stark with plans to retire to Mars and not generate publicity. But it has not been easy for him. Musk, beneath his shell of otherworldliness, is charming and funny, but he finds being in the public eye difficult. He would prefer to spend his time happily working on his rockets, not giving interviews. "I had to learn to be a little more extroverted," he says. "Ordinarily, I would sit in design meetings all day, exchanging ideas with people. But if I don't tell the story then it doesn't get out, and I want to try and get public support for extending life beyond Earth."Unfortunately, Musk has discovered that celebrity has a dark side. In his case, that was a painful divorce from his ex-wife, Canadian author Justine Musk, with whom he has five children. The split generated its fair share of media attention, not least because Justine has blogged extensively about the epic legal tussles over the terms of their settlement. As more details emerged, Musk decidedto publish his version of events on theHuffington Post. The lengthy piece, in which he wrote about his finances and his relationship with Talulah Riley, began with the words, "Given the choice, I'd rather stick a fork in my hand than write about my personal life."Musk's desire for privacy is perhaps surprising in a man so driven and successful. "I hate writing about personal stuff," he says. "I don't have a Facebook page. I don't use my Twitter account. I am familiar with both, but I don't use them."Outside work, where he spends up to 100 hours a week, Musk says he devotes nearly all his spare time to being a good dad. His children are the reason he gave up flying his military jet. "I have five kids and Iron Man does not have any kids," he says. "After having kids and running companies, I had so many responsibilities I decided it was not wise to take personal risks."So are Musk and his entrepreneurial kin the future of space travel? As Nasa, the big daddy of the global space business, struggles with reduced budgets and a sceptical public, it seems perfectly possible. SpaceX is getting into orbit for a fraction of the cost of the space shuttle programme. It aims to make money as an ongoing business concern, rather than draining an ever-tightening public purse. It wants to drive the costs down and improve reliability and make space travel something that is open to everyone. Only private business, Musk thinks, can do that. "The fundamental barriers are improving reliability and reducing cost, and the government is not that good at either. Would you prefer to fly Virgin Atlantic or Soviet-era Aeroflot?"But Musk remains a dreamer, not just a businessman. He did not create SpaceX to get rich for the second time. Instead, he is risking his fortune to start a company in a field most people said could not support a project like SpaceX. Again and again, he returns to the themes that keep him going. He sees what SpaceX is doing as part of humanity's destiny. "I think life on Earth must be about more than just solving problems… It's got to be something inspiring even if it is vicarious. When the US landed on the moon it was for all humanity. We count that as a human achievement. Anyone who could get near a TV got near a TV. If there was one TV in an African village and you had to walk 50 miles to get there, you'd do it," he says.And through it all is the desire to colonise Mars. Musk insists that his most powerful Falcon 9 rockets could already launch missions to Mars if assembled in Earth's orbit. He wants SpaceX to help humanity spread into space, just like the first European explorers setting out for the New World. "One of the long-term goals of SpaceX is, ultimately, to get the price of transporting people and product to Mars to be low enough and with a high enough reliability that if somebody wanted to sell all their belongings and move to a new planet and forge a new civilisation they could do so."Musk's belief that this can be achieved in two decades is something that most experts would scoff at but Musk, characteristically, finds it frustratingly slow. "Twenty years seems like semi-infinity to me. That's a long time," he says, as if surprised that anyone could doubt his aims. It is certainly tempting to dismiss it as a flight of fancy. Except, behind him on SpaceX's factory floor, Musk's nascent fleet of working space rockets are already being built.Space race: the private firms aiming to fly you to the starsSpaceX is not alone in aiming for the stars. A raft of private firms, set up by billionaires, most of them former CEOs or founders of dotcom or IT companies, have joined in a new space race. These space-age entrepreneurs include:■ Jeff Bezos, founder of Amazon, now America's largest online retailer. He  set up his space company, Blue Origin, in 2000, though its existence only became public in 2003 when Bezos started buying land in Texas so that he could build a test site for his spacecraft. Blue Origin's main project is New Shepard, a vertical take-off and landing rocket, that is designed to take tourists to the edge of Earth's atmosphere: the edge of space .■ John Carmack, the man behind video games such asDoomandQuake, has set up a company called Armadillo Aerospace which is developing a series of spacecraft including a lunar landing vehicle and a spacecraft which is also aimed at taking tourists to the edge of Earth's atmosphere. Fares will cost around $100,000, says Carmack. The Virginia-based travel firm Space Adventures has signed an exclusive deal with Armadillo to sell tourist seats on its spaceships.■ Richard Branson, is planning to start suborbital space-tourist flights on his Virgin Galactic spaceplanes within the next two years. In 2004 he signed a deal with the US inventor Burt Rutan to use the spaceplane technology that he had just developed. When flights begin, a small craft carrying half a dozen passengers - who will pay up to $200,000 - will be flown to the edge of the atmosphere. After a few minutes, the spacecraft will then spiral back to the ground. Branson says he expects first flights to begin within two years.■ Jeff Greason's XCOR Aerospace also aims to start suborbital tourist flights. XCOR is based in California where it designs, builds and operates rocket engines and rocket-powered vehicles to government and private markets. The Lynx spacecraft – fuelled by liquid oxygen and kerosene - is a two-seat rocket plane that can take off and land on a runway. The spacecraft has been designed to make up to four flights a day, carrying a single passenger into space where he or she can briefly experience weightlessness before returning to Earth.■ Steve Bennett is Britain's principal space engineer. His company, Starchaser, is developing rockets that are intended to blast paying passengers on 20-minute long suborbital flights that will include several minutes in which they will experience the delights of zero gravity.■ However, SpaceX is the most advanced and ambitious player in the field. Its rockets have already flown into space and it has won hundreds of millions of dollars worth of business contracts for future payload launches.Camilla Turner
3D Space Tank, Nintendo DSiWith a title that could scarcely be accused of being allegorical, 3D Space Tank has you trundling around different planets meting out 3D space justice with your tank's cannon and occasionally taking to the air for quick dogfights. Collect power crystals, activate a warpgate to your next destination, fly down a retro-styled launch tube and repeat the process – all in 1980s, Tron-style colour schemes. From the same people who brought you the superb Starship Patrol late last year and bearing a more than passing resemblance to the classic Nintendo shooter and grandfather of 3D console gaming, Starwing, its artful learning curve ratchets up the difficulty without ever feeling unfair. Comic relief, meanwhile, is supplied by your mildly sassy support-bot, who's constantly on hand to issue instructions and plot exposition. The summer release schedules are a virtual void, but this craftily hidden, old-school cracker arrives for under a tenner with no marketing fanfare or hype bandwagon.Q-Games, 800 DSi points (£7.20)Helsing's Fire, iPhoneHelsing's Fire.Dr Helsing and his hapless assistant Raffton are pursuing Dracula. To help them, you position a torch in each of the game's rooms so that it illuminates as many monsters as possible, before emitting a pulse of light to incinerate them. Naturally, rooms come with increasingly tortuous columns, divisions and scatterings of beasts, who themselves get shields only permeable by a specifically coloured light. You also need to be careful not to fry any stray humans or get your torch extinguished by a flailing member of the undead. The puzzles become gradually more testing, although never to the point of being hard, and there are against-the-clock survival modes to play with once you've spent the hour or two it takes to defeat the Count. Witty, fun, cheap and throwaway in exactly the manner of a good mobile title, Helsing's Fire is a puzzle game that fits perfectly into life's previously entertainment-free interstices.ClickGamer.com, 59pOsmos HD, iPadOsmos HD.Osmos HD is a game about absorption. You control an organic blob, which you steer by firing off little pieces of it to provide subtle propulsion and to direct yourself towards smaller blobs to assimilate. Collide with enough to get very big and avoid hitting any larger than you, which digest you in a heartbeat. Like classic ambient eat-'em-up, Fl0w, in which your predatory microscopic worm ate other multi-cell life forms while swimming through fluid, this has a distinctly watery feel, with strong currents in some levels threatening to sweep you into large enemies. Using simple instructions like "become huge", Osmos also has some twists with anti-matter orbs to avoid; "repulsors" that magnetically bounce away from you, and a sentient "ovarium", which merrily swims after you until you get too big, when it runs away. Complete with beautiful, trance-inducing music, it's an almost meditative experience.Hemisphere Games, £2.99
Kinder TraumaIn the past, long before the invention of song-recognition apps like Shazam, people would enter record shops and ask the assistant "Have you got the one that goes …" A similar thing is happening here with horror movies, as correspondents sketch out a few details of some film they saw as a child and the readers attempt to guess what it is. Apart from these "Name That Trauma" sessions, the rest of this wonderful site concerns itself with movies, books and toys that frightened you when you were a kid, as well as children who appear in scary movies. The Traumafessions throw up the odd confession of pre-teen fright including people who were scared to death by Tango adverts, had recurring nightmares about a scene in The Waltons, and a Dr Seuss book in which a pair of trousers come to life.That's Not My AgeParisian senior hipster from That's Not My Age.The name for this fashion and lifestyle blog comes from the idea that, when you become a certain age, denial sets in alongside the wrinkles, causing you to start lopping a few years off your age. Here an alternative is offered: pride in the fact that you know who you are and a realisation that there's plenty of cool folk over 40 who aren't permanently Botoxed or embarrassingly trying to look younger than their kids. Awards are handed out to middle-aged crush Dr Brian Cox, music hero Jarvis Cocker, TV bossy boots Mary Portas and best-dressed football manager José Mourinho. There's also pining over garments that suit a more mature outlook, a visit to Juliette Binoche's "facialist", and snaps of Parisian senior citizen hipsters. "Think Charlie Watts, not Ronnie Wood and you're on the right track," says the author.Blog roll: BookishBookshelf in Brooklyn Public Library.BookshelfBeautiful bookshelf and thousands of ways to stack/store books.Baker Street BlogFrom graphic mags to TV shows to the original books, blog covering the Sherlockian beat.Curious PagesCelebrating surreal, offbeat and inappropriate picture books for kids.Pulp InternationalVintage filth, scandal mags, TV spin-offs and pulp fiction in full technicolor.American FictionThe power of intelligent brevity – and the process of book design.Baroque In HackneyWonderful poetry blog featuring Dennis Rumsfeld and virtual flash verse.TelereadNews and views on ebooks and digital publishing.What we learned on the web this weekJelly City.Why use Legowhen you can build with jellyWhat Kurt Cobain's widow is wearingThe most homoeroticsports photos of all timeThe Daily Mail's secret editorial formulaBaby's Day Outis not a good movieWhat they keepin the IT Crowd basementWe can't findthe volume switchVelcro shoesare a dating no-noDora The Explorerdoesn't understand Inception eitherZach Galifianakisswaggers at a very high level
