Price £49,490MPG 46.3Top speed 155mphAllowing for the vagaries of translation, one man's name appears on the forecourt of almost every petrol station in the world. But Rudolf Diesel didn't invent the fuel that now bears his name – he developed the engine that burns it. He was born in 1858 in Paris to Theodor and Elise Diesel and at the age of 12 emigrated to London, before being sent on to Germany to live with relatives. Already a maths whizz, Rudolf's lifelong passion for engineering culminated in his greatest invention: a robust, reliable and potent powerplant which would eventually replace the dirty steam engines of the day. It's deeply apposite that Diesel, plagued by paranoia for much of his adult life, finally committed suicide by throwing himself into the Channel from the deck of a steamship.If he were alive today Diesel would take much comfort from the fact that his invention is still evolving and still producing solutions to our increasingly complex transport dilemmas. And the version that nestles like a giant black egg in BMW's reborn 5-Series may be the most sublime iteration yet. It's a&nbsp;super-smooth, slow-revving, clean-burning, all-aluminium, three-litre straight six which blasts the imperious Beemer from 0-62 in a&nbsp;shade over 5 seconds. It produces a bone-shuddering 442lb of torque and 295 brake horsepower while sipping fuel with all the abandon of ladies at a&nbsp;Temperance Society wine tasting. It's not a combustion engine, it's a&nbsp;conjuring trick.Diesel's updated masterpiece, linked to an eight-speed automatic gearbox, is powering both the new 5-series saloon and its Touring model (a snootier way of saying estate). It's almost 40 years since the saloon first rolled out and 20 years since the estate – sorry, Touring – arrived on our streets. In those two decades 670,000 have sold around the world.Other than Rudolf's engine, the most remarkable thing about the Touring is its self-levelling air suspension. This means that if you head over to France to bootleg back 1,670 litres of Beaujolais (the back seats fold flat to create a huge storage space), you won't find the exhaust pipes grinding on the tarmac as you wheelie on to the midnight ferry. You can see the road rather than the sky, and you can drive unhindered.I was beginning to appreciate some of the BMW's prodigious road talents – the effortless way the speed piles on, the insouciant moan of that engine, the immaculate handling, the sense of a car that's been selectively bred over four generations to create this best-in-show stunner – when my wife suggested a trip to Ikea. With low spirits we headed down the A23 on a Friday evening. After a&nbsp;couple of miles the smarter-than-thee control panel told us to pull over, as the rear tyre had punctured. After pausing for a&nbsp;moment, the car informed us it was fitted with run-flat tyres, so we could proceed with caution. But I saw the puncture for what it was – a&nbsp;lifeline. The BMW had answered my prayers. I turned to my wife and said: "Sorry, dear, but the car says we have to abandon the trip and head home.  We can't go to Ikea. What a shame…"The 535d's on-the-road price is £49,490, but the test car I drove had more than 20 extras which added £17,780 to the price. These included 19in double-spoke alloy wheels, sun-protection glass, a panoramic roof and surround-view parking cameras. But the mind reading was free.The true cost of motoringThe Parkers' New Car Awards have been developed with the single-minded purpose of helping the UK's car buyers identify "the cars that make your cash go further". Unlike most other new car awards which are judged largely on opinion, the Parkers' New Car Awards are based on hard facts, powered by Parkers' all-new Cost of Motoring Tool. The user-friendly tool which can be accessed 24/7 atparkers.co.uktakes in to account many "hidden costs" including depreciation, showroom tax and first registration fees, service and repairs, road tax, fuel consumption and even breakdown.The awards celebrate a mix of both value and premium brands across the 11 categories, and car buyers may be surprised at which cars actually represent the best value for money. Among this year's winners, the Renault Twingo 1.2 16v Bizu walked away with the best value City Car award, while Audi won the Small Hatchback category with its A1 1.6TDi SE.  In the Sports and Premium Executive categories, accolades have been awarded to the VW Scirocco 1.4TSi 122 and the BMW 520d SE. But the overall winner of Parkers' inaugural New Car Awards 2011 is, ta-dah, the Kia C'eed.Magic roundaboutsA website has launched a competition to find the UK's favourite traffic island in what some are dubbing Britain's first "Roundabout Idol".Online car-leasing serviceCentralcontracts.comis inviting motorists to send in pictures of their favourite, and most despised, traffic islands in a bid to find the Leona Lewis, Alexandra Burke and Matt Cardle of roundabouts.The Roundabout Idol competition will be launched officially next month, but some keen motorists have already sent in a couple of suggestions. The BBC island in Nottingham has been nominated as the UK's best by Tom Hemmingway. But James Welch is nominating the Queen's Garden's island in Newcastle-under-Lyme as the worst in the UK. He said: "I have the misfortune to have to navigate this appalling road island twice every working day and it's not only an eyesore it's also a catastrophe. It creates traffic jams where they don't need to be. The best thing to do would be to take a JCB to it and plough the whole thing up."If you would like to nominate your favourite, or most hated traffic island, send in a pic of it and your reasons for nominating to:roundaboutidol@centralcontracts.com.
"The internet is made of cats,"Huffington Postco-founder Jonah Peretti once told me. He was, of course, referring to the frankly obscene number of pictures and videos of cats in ridiculous situations, wearing silly outfits, doing hilarious things that are littering every corner of the web.If the hype is to be believed, cats are the epitome of modern web humour. They are the eternal subject of silly, one-click laugh fodder, fromMaru, the Japanese YouTube kitty superstarmost famous for jumping in and out of cardboard boxes (91m views) to the cast of thousands photographed in compromising positions and labelled with poorly spelled captions on the internationally laudedicanhascheezburger.com. But these moggies are more than memes. They explain why we are able to relate to one another online.It's not surprising that so much of online content is comedy; the library of psychological and anthropological research describes humour as the glue that helps to define communities and keep them together. Psychologist Dr Rod Martin, who has published extensively on the role of humour in mental and physical health, describes it as a coping mechanism: we seek to clarify a unified reality through our interpersonal communications, but when that unified reality isn't forthcoming – because we inevitably look at the world through different frames of reference and have different interpretations of what's happening around us – we poke fun at our inconsistencies, which allows us to smooth them over because we are able to embrace the contradictions.It's also an essential part of our social development. From a young age, we are influenced by what our social group defines as funny. We conform to that for the sake of keeping the peace, to feel like we belong, and to function to our greatest capacity in our small section of the world. Now, we share much of our online interaction on social networks such as Facebook with people we know, in an environment that sociologist Ray Oldenberg would call a "third place": a space such as a cafe or pub, where we can extend the bonds we have with one another through light-hearted, often humorous&nbsp;interaction.But beyond Facebook, the web is still an overwhelmingly anonymous place. It has historically had so few default social cues that we've spent much of our online time asking one another, "Age/Sex/Location?" to identity the most appropriate way to chat. Humour gives us, the anonymised strangers, instantaneous common ground. And that explains why social scientists and communication scholars have found so much banter in our everyday online&nbsp;conversations.It also explains the ephemeral and quick-fix nature of most online comedy. Let's face it; LOLcats and a Japanese moggie jumping into boxes aren't exactly high-brow. But across the ocean of possible new friends online, they are the only cornerstones we have to establish connections between one another, and to find people like us. We rely on universals. One of these, in the early 21st century, appears to be cats.Professor Jim Hendler, a veteran of the internet of the 1970s, says that "second perhaps to pornography, humour was a major force" in the first two decades of the net. "The kind of humour that worked best online in the 70s and 80s was counter-cultural stuff that chimed with the nature of what we were doing," he says. "Those of us using email lists on the ARPAnet were hiding the fact from our advisers. Cats really came into the story with the addition of images and web technologies."The limitations of the medium – when a computer screen only had 20 lines of 80 characters – also set the scene for the format of what works in modern online comedy. "Reading anything long took a long time and was boring," says Hendler. Now that we have images, audio and video, successful jokes and puns are even briefer, a feature that Martin Trickey looked for as one of the BBC's comedy commissioners for multi-platform.Trickey has identified four characteristics that work: brevity, topicality, authenticity and self-containment. "You don't need to know anything about where it came from or where it is going," he says. What this translates into is quick hits, rather than ongoing vignettes. "The attention span of the online audience is incredibly short. If we haven't got you in the first 10 seconds, we have probably lost you. It makes character development difficult and long-running narrative&nbsp;impossible."Hence the reliance of most successful online humour on current events and what can appear to outsiders as a series of in-jokes. Importantly, although they may not look like the pinnacle of cultural sophistication, these jokes are transformed into postmodern satire and parodies, as people develop derivatives. They become the bedrock for culture.Although rare, some comedians are able to foster ongoing relationships with their audiences.Peter Serafinowiczhas used YouTube andTwitterfor self-promotion and to play with different ways of being funny. "Immediately you've got a huge audience, and not just locally, but globally," he says. The videos he published with his brother James raised his profile in the US significantly, and won him a TV contract with Channel 4.Serafinowicz has also relished the interactivity of a medium such as Twitter, which he says replicated, in some ways, an offline, live experience. "Twitter is very satisfying for a comedian: to think of a funny quip, to put it up, and to have people re-tweet it or react to it." He also loves how the 140 characters forces him to think shorter. "Brevity is the soul of wit," he says. "It's really helped me hone my one-liner skills."As humans, we grasp commonality, and share what we find funny with our group to demonstrate our belonging. Now, thanks to the rise of social networks, little memes can spread like wildfire, and can be adapted and transformed. The pervasiveness of silly pictures of cats is simply our way of creating a unified reality out of nothing. Humour is the heart and soul of the web. It makes it the place we want to be.
Making a dramatic change from the lush jungles of its original incarnation,Crysis 2shifts its run-and-gun action into a war-torn, disease-stricken New York City – a change in emphasis that only adds to high expectations. On its release, the original was the benchmark by which PCs tested their power, performance and speed, which leaves this new multi-platform game with a huge amount to live up to. However, storywise at least, we're in undemanding, familiar territory. Marine named Alcatraz; alien invasion; coveted Nanosuit 2.0 armour and a mysterious organisation coveting your special suit complete the roll call.Powered by a new engine, the visuals are stunning, the draw distances long, and the texture detail on characters top-notch. On first appearances, the game lives up to its ground-breaking heritage (currently, there isn't a more visually stunning title on the market), but it's not without problems – most notably the clumsy AI, which at times gets confused by ledges, boxes and, well, most objects it decides to walk into.Equally, while on the whole the sound does complement play, there are times when the audio gets stuck in a loop, forcing a restart to resolve. Crytek has also ditched the original "save anywhere" option, which was very handy just before a large assault, and switched to the more mainstream, console-shooter checkpoint system. This seems unbalanced at times, with the distance between checkpoints often either very short or exceptionally long, in turn leading to some incredibly punishing areas.Despite these niggles, however, and a first few hours of play that will leave players new to the new game wondering what the hype was all about,  as the story picks up speed it plays very well indeed, and builds to a satisfying and surprising conclusion in the reasonably timed 10-hour campaign.The real longevity, as always, is in the multiplayer. One area in whichCrysis 2succeeds admirably is in leaning away from the big, pitched battles of the first game and towards a moreCall of Duty-style fast-paced shooter. The Nanosuit powers add a new layer of tactics to be explored, and, backed up with a well-defined progression system to keep gamers coming back, it's a multiplayer offering that outshoots all the other high-octane experiences currently available, even allowing for some post-launch difficulties affecting party mode.Crysis 2looks stunning, plays well, offers a rewarding multiplayer and has – a few minor sound and AI bugs aside – pretty much reached the high standards it set its sights on.
"Impetuosity and audacity," wrote Machiavelli, "often achieve what ordinary means fail to achieve." If you doubt that, may I propose a visit to the upper echelons of Apple, Google and Sony, where steam might be observed venting from every orifice of senior executives? If you do undertake such a visit, do not under any circumstances mention the word "Amazon".The proximate cause of all this corporate spleen is the launch last week ofAmazon's Cloud Driveservice. At first sight, it seems straightforward: it looks like a digital locker in which one may (for a fee) securely store one's digital assets in the internet "cloud". "Anything digital, securely stored," runs the blurb, "available anywhere." The first 5GB of storage is free, with more available at an annual cost of a dollar per gigabyte. Upload files to your "cloud drive", where they are stored online and from where they can be accessed by any device that you own.So far, so innocuous. It's not the online storage business that has Apple, Google &amp; Co spitting feathers, but theAmazon CloudPlayerwhich goes along with the digital locker. If you buy music from the company's vast MP3 store, then it's stored for free in the locker, whence it can be streamed to your computer – and, more importantly, to any Android phone or tablet via a special app created by Amazon. You can also upload the contents of your music library to Cloud Drive (though you will have to pay for space over 5GB). This means users will be able to stream "their" music for free.Watching these developments, the musician David Bowie must be feeling a warm glow of justification. In 2002 he predicted thatmusic would, one day, "become like running water or electricity".Bowie had recognised that iPod users were, in effect, the audio equivalent of travellers to primitive countries who carry bottled water because public supplies are unsafe. In a comprehensively networked world, he surmised, people would eventually become more relaxed about carrying their own bottled music: when they needed it, they would just get it streamed from the network.For Bowie's prediction to become reality, four things had to slot into place: ubiquitous mobile broadband connectivity; internet-enabled mobile devices; cloud storage services; and appropriate business models and licensing arrangements that would support music-like-water services. In recent years the first three have arrived – which is howSpotify, the first major music-streaming service, got going. Spotify has made good progressin Europe (where it has more than a million paying subscribers),but it has made no headway in the US, allegedly because of the music labels' suspicions that licensing streaming services might not yield enough revenue.Behind the scenes in the US, though, there has been frenetic activity, with Apple, Google and Amazon racing to get into the streaming business. Apple has cloud services, customers who are used to paying for music, a good range of mobile devices but no licensing deal for streaming. Google has terrific cloud services and millions of Android devices but no music store customers and no licensing deal. Amazon has cloud services, a music store, paying customers, a terrific e-commerce operation, and access to Android devices. But it also had no licensing deal with the record labels.Which brings us back to Machiavelli, impetuosity and audacity. In launching its Cloud Player, Amazon has cocked a snoot both at its rivals and at the music business. The more one looks at it, the more exquisite the competitive dilemmas of its opponents now seem.The record companies will find that Amazon's size, reach and dominance of online retailing will make it difficult to bring to heel. Apple is confronted with a rival that is much stronger in cloud computing, already operates a big music store and has access to the zillions of affordable Android phones that greatly outnumber Apple's expensive iDevices. Google is without a music store, popular e-commerce system or a licensing deal – and lacks even an exclusive grip on the Android system it spawned. Stay tuned for the greatest spectacle since the Colosseum closed for business. And all because people don't like bottled music.
Encylopedia PicturaEncyclopedia Pictura are a trio of film-makers responsible for Knife by Grizzly Bear, one of the most brain-melting music videos of the past decade. That film's bizarre ecological theme is common throughout their work, which can be viewed here, alongside behind-the-scenes footage illustrating their craft. See Bjork's Wanderlust video, numerous short films of their own and, in the works, a children's movie about "about a gang of kids who hack, scout, make, farm, and build their way out of a catastrophic situation in Pennsylvania 2023". The augmented reality that features in their films also extends to the trio's lives and an eco-community they've set up called Trout Gulch Farm.Street Art ViewA Banksy in Bristol.Google Street View finds another use here as an open air gallery. Zoom in from a map of the world and you can locate a selection of murals, graphics and creative graffiti all captured by Google's cameras. Rather brilliantly, once you zoom down to a specific site Flickr links overlay photographs, so if the piece you're looking at has faded over time you can see what it looked like in its original state. This is particularly useful when searching for Banksy's London and Bristol originals, as many have become victims of vandalism, tagging and over zealous councils. Other artists such as Space Invader and Blu are represented and you can also contribute to the latest additions with your own finds.Blog roll: Hip-hopSix Feet Under And Burrowing … De La Mole.Pigeons And PlanesVideos, downloads and profiles mixing up mainstream hip-hop with indie and 80s rock.No One Man Should Have All That FlourKanye West's lyrics subtly rewritten to all be about food.UK All DayFrom Bollywood mash ups to Nottingham grime to the Phil Mitchell Crackhead Song – the wonder of UK hip-hop.SeleneDownload a hip-hop EP inspired by the soundtrack to Duncan Jones's 2009 science fiction film Moon.Smoking SectionLil Wayne and Mr Chef share webspace with US sports and videogame monsters.Patrick MobergIllustrator re-imagines rap acts as creatures including De La Mole, Missy Elephant, Timbalamb.What we learned on the web this weekWhy people are afraid of clowns.Why people are afraid of clownsThe 50 best dance tracks of the past 20 yearsInception was very brownThe history of submarine games80s Arnie had to handle glassware very carefullyHow people look at websitesWhat happens if you watch The Social Network backwardsThe history of TwitterWhere to cheat at ScrabbleWho stole the kitty cat treats
You have to be careful, with an incredibly bright, white car, that&nbsp;you are judging it&nbsp;on more than its amazing bright whiteness. Hell, I am not too big to&nbsp;admit this: it&nbsp;is fun to have such a&nbsp;car. There's a&nbsp;very slight neck crane from passersby, too, which surely points to some flaw in the species – that we're drawn for no reason to stare at clean things – but let's worry about that another day.This was the Ford C-Max we were&nbsp;dealing with, rather than its larger sibling, the Grand C-Max, so&nbsp;it's not&nbsp;a people carrier as such. Indeed, its family-friendliness is limited to the following factors: children love it (perhaps because it&nbsp;is so white); the&nbsp;boot opens with a&nbsp;futuristic whoosh when you press the keyfob. ("Great when you've got&nbsp;your hands full!" declares the website, though I found it's also great for arsing about to impress passersby. Check out the modern features on my incredibly white car!)&nbsp;The wing mirrors have a similar&nbsp;whooshing action, there's a&nbsp;parking sensor (surprisingly handy, though for high-risk personalities it takes some of the fun out of fitting into a tight spot) and it is attractive. It's not a Maserati; you won't swoon. But it's&nbsp;the nicest looking new large sensible&nbsp;car I've seen in a while, which is possibly down not just to the design, but also to the fact that it's not that large.There's a surprising amount of engine power here, too. The C-Max is a showcase for Ford's EcoBoost engine, so called because it delivers 18% more power and 18% less CO2. (I&nbsp;know, those numbers are a strange&nbsp;coincidence, but for all I&nbsp;know cars were invented by a succession of strange coincidences.) When I say "surprising amount", I&nbsp;don't mean I&nbsp;am a very subtle driver, alive to nuance: I&nbsp;mean if&nbsp;you&nbsp;hit the gas as if you're in a&nbsp;normal car, you will bounce around&nbsp;the car park at Lidl like a&nbsp;kangaroo, and your sister will go, "Wowsers! Is&nbsp;that you or the car?" and you, because she doesn't drive, so won't know any better, will say, "It's the car. It's just a very powerful&nbsp;engine, and that's what they feel&nbsp;like."Motorway driving is smooth but&nbsp;zingy: it has good acceleration, it's responsive, it's zippy when it needs to be and it is possible to forget you're driving, but only because of the interior comfort and intuitive controls, not because you are so slow and bored that you've gone to sleep. It's like a car from the future, if you imagine the future to be modestly glamorous, broadly sensible, fun but not heady, and not at all like Blade Runner or any other postapocalyptic hell scenario.Ford C-MaxPrice£17,195Top speed112mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.5 secondsAverage consumption42.8mpgCO2 emissions154g/kmEco rating7/10In a wordBouncy
Last Sunday, on the eve the wireless industry's largest tradeshow in Orlando,AT&amp;T announced its plan to buy rival mobile service provider T-Mobile USA for $39bn. Were this merger allowed to proceed,AT&amp;T would control more than 40% of all US wireless subscribers. (By way of comparison, the combined T-Mobile UK and Orangewill control 37% of the UK mobile market.) Together, AT&amp;T and Verizon Wireless would be an effective wireless duopoly,controlling nearly 80% of the market.The significance of this type of consolidation can hardly be overstated: in a society where policymakers prefer to rely on competition – rather than regulation – to protect consumers, AT&amp;T's proposed merger with T-Mobilecould have serious ramifications for mobile phone users. Consumers' pocketbooks will likely be the hardest hit. T-Mobile caters to more price-sensitive customers; with its affordable monthly plans out of the picture, AT&amp;T and Verizon will feel less pressure to compete on price with the far smaller Sprint, a company thatthe Wall Street Journal notedwould be "a marginal No 3 player".And this merger could lead to even greater price hikes for visitors to the US from abroad and Americans who travel frequently. Since T-Mobile and AT&amp;T are the only major US carriers that use the GSM standard – the most popular mobile standard worldwide – AT&amp;T could soon find itself with virtually no competition for these two classes of users. Overall, mobile phone users can expect higher bills, longer contracts and more hidden and confusing fees, if this merger comes to pass.But the harms to consumers wouldn't just be monetary. In addition to its lower prices, T-Mobile is also known for its more user-friendly data policies. Unlike AT&amp;T, which caps monthly data use, T-Mobile offers unlimited data plans to its users. What's more, AT&amp;T's most generous data plan, which allows for 4GB of usage a month (roughly 12-24 hours of streaming video), will cost you one-and-a-half-times what T-Mobile's unlimited plan will. And while T-Mobile has never prevented its users from accessing the sites and services of their choice over its network, AT&amp;T has,blocking access to Skype, Slingbox and Google Voice at various points during the last few years.This last point could prove especially harmful given the current state of net neutrality in the United States.The phrase "net neutrality" refers to the idea that all internet traffic should be treated equallyand that service providers should not be allowed to block, slow or degrade traffic based on its type, point of origin or destination. Though net neutrality has many vocal supporters in the US,including Minnesota Senator Al Franken, thus far, policy solutions that would write the principle of net neutrality into law haveexcluded mobile data providers from the rules. A lack of competition in the wireless marketplace, combined with a lack of strong net neutrality rules, could allow AT&amp;T to block popular, high-bandwidth services like Netflix.Still, even as AT&amp;T works to cultivate an air of inevitability around this proposed merger, the company's acquisition of T-Mobile is anything but a fait accompli. Unlike the last large communications merger in the US,that of Comcast and NBC Universal, AT&amp;T's merger with T-Mobile would be a "horizontal" merger – that is to say, a merger of two companies that compete to provide the same types of services.The New York Timesandthe Washington Posthave already expressed scepticism about the merger and the Economist – a publication known for it market-friendly views –advocates that it be blocked. Historically speaking, it is horizontal mergers that have attracted the most scrutiny from the federal government.It remains to be seen whether the department of justice, the Federal Communications Commission and the Obama administration possess the political will to deny this merger, but if they are to keep the best interests of wireless consumers in mind, then they should.
Sony Online Entertainment has closed three studios in a major overhaul of its business. The massively-multiplayer online gaming specialist and creator of Everquest, has disbanded development teams in Denver, Tucson and Seattle, with the loss of over 200 jobs.The closures have resulted in the axing of The Agency, the ambitious massively-multiplayer spy shooter, announced for the PS3 at the beginning of the machine's lifespan. The much-anticipated title promised to feature a globe-trotting espionage narrative and both co-op and competitive play.The Agency is not the only project to be canned this month. Yesterday, Capcomcancelledits downloadable platformer, Mega Man Universe, and last week, Square Enixdroppedthe eccentric third-person shooter, Gun Loco.Earlier this month, veteran developer Irem cancelled Disaster Report 4, a survival adventure based in the aftermath of a massive earthquake. Although the tragedy in Japan wasn't directly mentioned, the connection is obvious.The axing of The Agency seems to be symbolic of the difficulties developers have had in bringing massively multiplayer titles to the PS3 – or indeed the Xbox 360. Back in 2008, Sony Online Entertainment President John Smedleyassertedthat the console could one day stage a massively multiplayer title capable of competing with World of Warcraft. And though there are MMOGs available – namely DC Universe Online and Free Realms (Final Fantasy IV is due out soon) – the genre has yet to take hold. Microsoft's machine has proven similarly resistant, although the indie studio Undead Labs isworking on a Zombie MMOfor the platform.Earlier this year, there were hints that Everquest 3, the latest in the massively successful fantasy MMO series once nicknamed 'EverCrack' for its addictive qualities,may be heading to PlayStation 3, but there's been no official announcement.
Microsoft may be keeping its cards close to its chest on sales of Windows Phone 7 handsets, but the company has released some stats on its smartphone operating system, with the aim of persuading app developers to throw their weight behind it.In a long post on theWindows Phone Developer Blog, Microsoft's Brandon Watson outlines some of the numbers that he says illustrate WP7's momentum. For example, 36,000 individuals and/or studios are now members of the Windows Phone developer community, with 1,200 more joining every week.Some 40% of these registered developers have already published their first app or game for WP7, meaning 60% have not yet done so. Watson also says that the average time to certification – meaning the time it takes to get an initial pass or fail – is 1.8 days, with 62% of apps passing on their first attempt.There are now 11,500 applications available on the Windows Phone Marketplace store, with 7,500 of those being paid apps, while 1,100 are using Microsoft's mobile advertising tools to generate revenues from in-app ads.Watson makes an interesting claim too: "Based on the conversations we are having with some of our developers, many are telling us that they are seeing more revenue on our platform than competing platforms, despite the fact that we cannot yet match the sheer number of handsets being sold."It is hard to evaluate that claim without knowing which developers are saying this, of course. Microsoft has consistently pitched WP7 as a potentially lucrative platform for developers, where there is less competition (for now) than iPhone, and a greater willingness to pay for apps than Android. The message certainly isn't falling on deaf ears, but more specific examples are required to judge how well Microsoft is delivering on that promise.Watson adds that Windows Phone 7 users are downloading an average of 12 apps every month, although there is no further information on how many of those are paid versus free, or any stats on the actual revenues being generated on the Marketplace by developers. More information is likely to come at Microsoft's MIX11 conference, which starts on 12 April and is likely to put an emphasis on making developers feel comfortable on WP7."We look forward to further increasing the engagement and transparency with our developer community, including more visibility into the update release schedules, roadmaps, access to early builds of the new OS and more time with our team," he writes.If Microsoft is to prove analysts like IDC and Ovum right –who as we reported yesterday both see Windows Phone growingto the point where it will be hot on the heels of iOS (or even ahead of it) in three or four years' time, developer relations will be a critical element to get right.Games developers had their say earlier this week, but if you've released an app through Windows Phone 7, now would be the time to pitch in. Are you seeing greater revenues than on iPhone or Android, and are you impressed with Microsoft's developer relations?
Sony Ericsson is launching its intriguingXperia Playhandset in the UK today, although Vodafone, Three and O2 customers will have to wait to get hold of the PlayStation-themed device. Sony has blaimed a 'freight issue' for a shortage of handsets coming into the country, but last week, O2, which is set to exclusively offer a white version of the smartphone,reportedsoftware bugs, which would need to be fixed before stocking. Orange, as well as retailers like Phones4U and Carphone Warehousearesupplying the phone today, with some stockists offering unlocked handsets at around £500.The Xperia Play runs the Android 2.3 Gingerbread OS and features a four-inch multi-touch display, 1GHz Qualcomm Scorpion CPU and an Adreno 205 GPU. A slide out PlayStation-style controller also provides a d-pad, four button layout and a touch pad to provide analogue control. There's also an accelerometer for movement sensing, a 5MP camera and Wi-Fi connectivity.The other big feature is the handset's support forPlayStation Suite, a new development platform allowing studios to easily port PlayStation titles onto compatible Android smartphones. The online PlayStation Store will also be accessible from these devices providing a more seamless purchasing system. At first, Sony will be releasing a range of classic PSone titles – although the Suite hasn't launched yet and Xperia Play owners will have to wait before re-experiencing the 50-or so titles promised. At the moment, only five have been named inlcuding Syphon Filter, MediEvil and Cool Boarders 2. Admittedly, it's not the most exciting line-up as yet, but expect more classics to arrive as third-party publishers clamber aboard.Sony hassaidthat we can expect 'hundreds' of Xperia Play titles before the end of the year. For now, Bruce Lee Dragon Warrior, FIFA 10, Star Battalion, The Sims 3 and Crash Bandicoot are all embedded on the device. As for new games, several publishers are working on Xperia Play-enhanced titles. Gameloft has prepared ten of its Android hits including Assassin's Creed, Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Conviction and Real Football 2011. It also has a Play exclusive in the form of Backstab, a 3D action adventure set on an 18th century Caribbean island.Here's the trailer.There are also several timed exclusives, including Gameloft's sci-fi shooter sequel NOVA 2, and Halfbricks's cartoon dual-stick blaster Age of Zombies.Here's the trailer for that!Sony is alsoreportedto be bringing its subscription-based PS3 music download service, Music Unlimited, to the platform, as well as to the forthcoming NGP handheld games console.We'll be providing a hands-on review soon, but if you've managed to grab one let us know what you think!
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSo a bar walks into an app... &gt;&gt; Twitter blog"The QuickBar was originally conceived to help users discover what's happening in the broader world beyond people they already follow. The bar was also seen as a potential means of in-app notifications for new @mentions, DMs, and other important activity."Instead it turned into the focus of hate over what was seen as the taducing of user-focussed design. And so it's been taken out the back and shot.Acer Should Overhaul Its Operation: Stan Shih &gt;&gt; The Taiwan Economic News"In view of the impact of smart phones and tablet PCs on the PC market, Acer Inc., Taiwan's leading PC supplier, should overhaul its operation to seek higher profit margin, rather than seeking the championship in the global PC market, said Stan Shih, founder of Acer Group yesterday (March 29)."...In recent years, Acer has been striving to become the world's largest PC vendor, in the belief that the goal can help it achieve economy of scale and garner higher margin. Shih remarked that the success of Apple underscores the traditional industrial mode is undertaking a major change, as volume may not have an absolute relationship with profit margin. Therefore, the honor of the world's largest PC vendor may be achieved at the expense of profit margin"Which pretty much answers the question of why the chief executive was booted out: he didn't agree with Shih.Do Not Anger the Alpha Android &gt;&gt; BusinessWeek"Playtime is over in Android Land. Over the last couple of months Google has reached out to the major carriers and device makers backing its mobile operating system with a message: There will be no more willy-nilly tweaks to the software. No more partnerships formed outside of Google's purview. From now on, companies hoping to receive early access to Google's most up-to-date software will need approval of their plans. And they will seek that approval from Andy Rubin, the head of Google's Android group."Three thoughts: (1) game most definitely ON. Google is getting deadly serious about Android's future here; (2) you can ignore the PR about Android being "open" in contrast to other mobile operating systems now; (3) since being taken over by Bloomberg, BusinessWeek has produced cracking stories at a remarkable rate.Confirmed: Samsung is Not Shipping Keyloggers &gt;&gt; F-Secure"The whole saga was caused by a false alarm of the VIPRE Antivirus product. Apparently VIPRE detects the StarLogger keylogger by searching for the existance existence of a directory called 'SL' in the root of the Windows directory. This is a bad idea."Where by "bad" F-Secure means "reputation-destroying leading to potentially actionable outcomes".Samsung notebooks are in fact secure &gt;&gt; Samsung blog"The statements that Samsung installs keylogger on R525 and R540 laptop computers are false. After investigating into this matter, it was found that the software installed WAS in Fact VIPRE, not StarLogger called The Commercial Keylogger. The confusion arose because Microsoft's Live Application multi-language support folder, "SL" folder, was mistaken for StarLogger."This seems plausible.Samsung Series 9 Laptop Shows No Signs Of Spyware &gt;&gt; PCWorld"Rootkit" plot thickens.TMI: Fear, Fukushima and Facts &gt;&gt; Anil DashBuilds on the XKCD radiation chart (which you must know already) and then gets an expert to comment on it. In fact, even XKCD has it overblown. Prepare to revise your figures for fatalities caused by Chernobyl downward by a couple of orders of magnitude, for example.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's April Fools' day! Expect game sites throughout the world to be filled with 'hilarious' spoof news stories. You'll no doubt find respite from the forced hijinks in Chatterbox today...
This is just a quick post to let you all know that, on Monday night, I'll be interviewing Philip and Andrew Oliver LIVE on stage at Bafta. The creators of the iconic Dizzy series and founders ofBlitz Games Studioswill be discussing their career, the changes to the games industry they've witnessed, and the future of interactive entertainment. Blitz is a leader in 3D technology and motion controls so they should plenty of interesting insights about these potentially game-changing new developments. They'll also be chatting about their latest title, the movie karaoke sim,Yoostar 2.The event starts at 6.30pm and tickets are £5. You can find out morehere. Or view theBafta Facebook page. Hope to see you there!
I'm setting up an art and craft room, so I thought that having a laptop might be a better idea than buying a new desktop PC. What's the fastest one, with the largest memory possible, and a biggish screen? I have a 17-inch flat screen at moment. I use it mostly for shopping, word processing, spreadsheet, internet access, email and games. I was thinking about spending £500-700ish.SunflowerThe fastest laptops with the biggest memories are specialist games machines sold under brand names such as Alienware (now owned by Dell) and Asus's Republic of Gamers. Prices generally run from about £1,000 to £2,500. I suspect you are keen to get something faster than your current desktop, but your casual gaming needs and other applications can easily be met by a much cheaper laptop. In fact, you could even consider something with an old Intel Core 2 Duo. For longevity, it would be better to buy a laptop with one of Intel's latest Core i3, i5 or i7 processors, and this year's versions are codenamed Sandy Bay. However, for your purposes, having the latest chip won't make a huge amount of difference.Lots of manufacturers make laptops for the desktop replacement market, and the leading brands include Asus, Acer, Dell, HP, Lenovo, Samsung, Sony and Toshiba. If possible, visit a high-street retailer, PC superstore or large department store (eg John Lewis) to see if a particular brand appeals. You don't need to understand the technical specifications, but concentrate on laptops that have either a Core i3 or Core i5 processor, 4GB of memory, and Windows 7 Home Premium, preferably the 64-bit version. The things that will make more difference are the screen resolution, the "feel" of the keyboard, and your perception of the quality of construction and finish. It might help if you shop with a friend, but ultimately you have to rely on your own hands and eyes.If you will be doing a lot of word processing, try to see if you'd prefer a laptop with an "isolated keyboard" (where the keys are like Scrabble tiles) rather than a traditional keyboard.Mainstream desktop replacement laptops generally have 15.6 or 16 inch widescreens with a resolution of 1366 x 768 pixels, which is somewhat restrictive. Going up to a 17.3 inch screen will usually provide a resolution of 1600 x 900 pixels, which should be comparable with your current 17-inch LCD, though you may lose some height. (If you right-click on your Windows XP desktop, select Properties, then click the Settings tab, it will tell you the resolution. I'd guess this is 1280 x 1024, though it could be as low as 1024 x 768.)There's not a huge choice of laptops with 17.3-inch screens, but the Samsung R780 is in your price range at about £650 (search forNP-R780-JT04UK). It has a Core i5-480M processor, 4GB of memory, 640GB hard drive and 64-bit Windows 7 Home Premium. Alternatives include the Acer Aspire 7741G, Asus K72JR-TY171V, and HP Pavilion dv6-3125sa. You will have to shop around for the best price, but watch out for "cheaper" models that only have 2GB of memory and probably a smaller hard drive.Moving down a notch to the Core i3 processor would provide better value for your purposes. For example, you could get anAsus K72F-TY133Vwith a Core i3-370M for about £460, or an HP G72-b20sa with an i3-350M for about £470-£490. The Samsung R730 with an i3-380M (search forNP-R730-JB09UK) is no longer quite such good value at £526, the current Amazon.co.uk price. Even the Core 2 Duo version of the Samsung R730, which goes for  about £450, doesn't offer a worthwhile saving over an Asus K72F, though it might win on aesthetic grounds.At the bottom of the market for laptops with 17.3 inch screens are machines with Pentium- or Celeron-branded processors, which are slower but fast enough for most home users. An example is the Toshiba L670 with a 2.13GHz Pentium P6200, 2GB of memory and 250GB hard drive, which Argos is knocking out for £379.99. However, laptops with far better Core i3 chips and 4GB of memory are better value, and available for a bit less than your budget.Switching from a desktop to a laptop will save space that you can devote to arts and crafts, but a laptop is not as healthy, ergonomically speaking. Think about using an adjustablelaptop riserto lift the screen slightly. You may also prefer to plug in a separate USB mouse rather than using the laptop's touch-pad.Footnote: A US-based security researcher recentlyreportedfinding theStarLoggerkeystroke logger installed on two Samsung laptops. If that had been true, the web should be awash with similar reports, and it isn't. In fact, the report was completely wrong, and was quickly debunked by Mikko Hypponen at F-Secure:Confirmed: Samsung is not shipping keyloggers.
Microsoft has upped the ante in its bitter rivalry with Google by filing its first formal complaint to regulators, claiming the search engine giant is restricting competition.The US technology firm on Thursday filed the complaint to the European commission, which announced aformal investigation into Google in November, adding significant weight to the chorus of opposition which has seen complaints to Brussels from mainly small internet sites such as price comparison firm Foundem and Microsoft-owned firm Ciao.Microsoft acknowledged the irony of filing an antitrust complaint – the company has itselfpaid billions in fines and leviesin a string of protracted anti-competitive cases over the years."Having spent more than a decade wearing the shoe on the other foot with the European commission, the filing of a formal antitrust complaint is not something we take lightly," said Brad Smith, Microsoft's general counsel,in a blog posting.In a lengthy and detailed post Smith said that Microsoft had been prompted to act after witnessing a "broadening pattern of conduct aimed at stopping anyone else from creating a competitive alternative".Smith added that as "troubling" as the competitive landscape is in the US market "it is worse in Europe". with Google controlling up to 95% of the search market. The company goes on to outline a number of examples of a "pattern of actions" that it claims Google has taken to "entrench its dominance in the markets for online search and search advertising to the detriment of European consumers".Microsoft alleges that these anti-competitive practices include stopping its search engine, called Bing, from indexing content on Google-owned YouTube; blocking Microsoft Windows smartphones from "operating properly" with YouTube; blocking access to content owned by book publishers; and limiting the flow of ad campaign information back to advertisers, making it more expensive to run ads with rivals."Over the past year, a growing number of advertisers, publishers, and consumers have expressed to us their concerns about the search market in Europe," said Smith. "They've urged us to share our knowledge of the search market with competition officials."Google said it would be "happy to explain" how its business works. "We're not surprised that Microsoft has done this, since one of their subsidiaries was one of the original complainants," said a spokesman. "For our part, we continue to discuss the case with the European commission."A spokeswoman for the European commission said: "The commission takes note of the complaint and, as is the procedure, will inform Google to allow it to submit its own views. No further comment."
Yoshinori Ono has big plans for Street Fighter. The affable deputy head of Capcom's consumer games R&amp;D division has already triumphed withSuper Street Fighter IV 3D, which many consider the finest title in the 3DS launch line-up. But that's just the beginning of his plans to turn the fighting game series into a mass mainstream phenomenon.Last week, I met up with Ono in London and spoke to him about his game design philosophy, and about the intriguing future of Street Fighter. What does this long-running series have to do with football? Ono is about to explain...When did you decide you wanted to work on a 3DS title?Two seconds after seeing it I knew I wanted to do something, I didn't necessarily know what, I just knew I wanted to do something. The potential was there, I didn't even have to think about the specifics. I could see it.After that, did you think Street Fighter?In the next five seconds, I realised that 3DS coincided with where I wanted to take the entire fighting game genre. I knew that Nintendo's console was definitely going to be a stepping stone toward that. After seven seconds, the 3DS basically said, 'make Street Fighter' to me.You said that Street Fighter IV 3D is a stepping stone. Where do you want to take Street Fighter?Until very recently fighting games have been a niche. In order to play you needed to understand all the rules, you had to know exactly what to do in every situation. The genre has been isolating itself from non-hardcore gamers. But I want Street Fighter to be a tool, like playing cards or a chess board – you just need the pieces and everyone can play, not just the elite. It will take a few more generations to get to that utopian point, but what the 3DS has done is enable me to take the first step toward my grand scheme.Is it difficult to move toward the mainstream without alienating those hardcore fans?A quick metaphor: think of the Premier League. When Manchester United play Chelsea, you have the most professional, skilful players taking part, so any kid just out of school can't join that team. However, just because not everyone can play for Manchester United doesn't mean no one plays football. Until recently, we only ever aimed Street Fighter at the high end, we've been neglecting people who want to play at their own level. So what we've done with Super Street Fighter IV 3D is, we've retained the hardcore elements, but we've lowered the entry barrier, so people can play in the way they want to play, rather than having to aspire to be hardcore. We've established a very important milestone here.Were there difficulties bringing over any of the moves or characters to the 3DS screen?There were technical issues with the speedy characters who move across the screen very quickly. It became difficult to identify whether it was the character moving or the background scrolling. What saved us, though, was the 3D vision. Because there's now a depth to the background, it's very easy to find out if it's the character or scenery that's moving. It's pretty much perfect.Have Street Fighter players developed different tactics for the 3DS version?Most hardcore gamers will be used to playing with fighting sticks, but those gamers are very dextrous – that's what makes them good. So give them a different control style and they'll adapt very quickly. They've come up with some strange way of playing, they have names for how to hold the 3DS in a professional way. I'm not worried about them at all. I'm happy that I've managed to provide a much easier interface – via the hardware supplied by Nintendo and our own software. Sticks are a little intimidating for people who have not been exposed to fighting games before. I think they find pads easier to use and the way that the touchscreen registers special moves, it allows everyone to adapt the game to their own style – to play the way they want.Street Fighter makes interesting use of the StreetPass mode, allowing your console to fight and swap characters with other 3DS units as they pass by. Are you looking to create ad-hoc communities and meet-ups as we saw with Monster Hunter?StreetPass is very interesting, technologically, and I obviously had to do something to implement it. But the feature isn't really the goal. In Monster Hunter, playing together, hunting together, is the whole purpose of that game. With Street Fighter, we use StreetPass to educate people, to suggest to them how interacting with other players might work. Some people don't want to play with others – they just want their own console, they want to be offline all the time, they don't want to interact. However, some peopleonlywant to play online – all they care about is the multiplayer game.StreetPass is there to work in-between the two. You don't have to involve yourself with other people, but you can enjoy the result of interacting. For people who are scared of online gaming, they might find through StreetPass that playing with other people can be quite fun. It's another string to what we can offer with Street Fighter. It's really exciting.How do you think developers will exploit the 3DS going forward? Is there much still to learn about the device?With any game we make, we always feel like we do 100%. In terms of the 3D edition, we think we've ticked all the boxes in terms of what the 3DS is capable of. But what tends to happen – and this was the case with the NES, the SNES and so on – is that we reach a point where we think we have accessed 100% of the hardware's ability, but then you learn and apply new techniques and suddenly 100% is not 100%. We have included all the features of the 3DS, but I have a feeling there exists some sort of synergy where we'll be able to achieve above this.Let's talk about Street Fighter x Tekken, a historic meeting of the two fighting game series'. What have been the key difficulties of this collaboration?I'm going to try to force in another football analogy! Different national football leagues have their own characteristics, their own personalities, and they all play very differently. Compare the English Premier League to the Spanish La Liga – they're playing the same sport, but it feels fundamentally different. Putting Chelsea and Real Madrid together won't automatically form a functioning team. Although it's an exciting idea, it would require very careful planning and execution. It's exactly the same for Street Fighter x Tekken: two top notch games, both fighting, but in a very different style. I'm having fun creating this game, but it's tough as hell!What alleviates the pain, what lifts my motivation to take the fighting genre to the 22nd century, is the potential that comes from putting these two together. Time for another football metaphor. Even with people who aren't fans of Chelsea or Real Madrid, when they hear the teams are playing, everyone is excited and wants to know what will happen. It's the same here. When these two get together, it creates such a buzz around the whole fighting genre. This is going to be a major spin-off – it's not Street fighter 5, it's not Tekken 8, it's Street Fighter x Tekken! it's there to draw in more interest. After that, we want those people to come to Street Fighter and to Tekken, and think, 'I've been out of the fighting game genre for a while, but now I may come back'. It's all part of my grand scheme to bring the fighting genre to where it should be.What's the working relationship with Namco? Are there creative differences?When we first decided to go ahead with this project we agreed not to interfere with each other at all! So Namco Bandai has no say in anything we do in Street Fighter x Tekken and vice versa for Tekken x Street Fighter  – we have no idea what that's going to look like and we cannot object to whatever Namco does!That's brave...If they go down the Dead or Alive route and Chun-Li comes out rather sexy, we STILL can't say anything!It's like Alex Ferguson managing Arsenal for one match?Yes, even the club owners can't say anything – even if he changes the whole team…Is there anything from Capcom's rich back catalogue that you'd like to see being re-imagined for 3DS? I'd love an Onimusha or Devil May Cry title.It would be an interesting idea to bring classic games back, but one thing to note is that Street Fighter 4 3Dhasto be on the 3DS: it couldn't have existed without the console. If we produced a simple port of Onimusha it would be difficult to fundamentally utilise the capabilities of the 3DS as we did with Street Fighter. I'd rather bring out a completely new title. But, whether that could be a sequel or perhaps themed around Devil May Cry or Onimusha – that's a different question…Do you think the 3DS will prompt a whole new range of game genres?If people don't resort to just bringing game series into 3DS for the sake of it, if they work on creating games for the 3DS that exploit all of its capabilities, they're bound to come up with new genres – it can do so much that other consoles can't. It would be very questionable if we didn't come up with new genres – that would mean we weren't doing enough.  So I have two answers to that question – it should and it will!
Trinity Mirror's Digital Media division has launched a universal iOS app for the upcoming royal wedding, blending photo galleries, video clips and audio narrative from its royal correspondent James Whitaker.Mirror: Wills &amp; Kate a Royal Love Storyis being sold for iPhone and iPad on Apple's App Store for £1.19, and launched this morning.The app's 10 chapters are heavily image-focused, running from William's early years and relationship with his mother and father, through to his romance with Kate Middleton. Sharing features are included, with users able to post content from the app onto Facebook.The App Store listing hopes it will appeal "to all users, whether they be staunch royalists or just swept up in the fairytale romance between William and Kate".The Mirror actually released a special edition print magazine with the same title in November 2010, selling it for £4.99. The addition of video and Whitaker's audio narration to the iOS app show it is intended to be more than just an interactive cash-in.The application's release is another example of a publisher looking for one-shot opportunities on the App Store.Earlier in March, News Corporation published aniPad app tributeto actress Elizabeth Taylor just two days after her death. Released by its digital news subsidiary the Daily, it too sold on the App Store with a £1.19 price tag.
What's life like for an indie coder, working on games alone or in a smal studio? That's what IndieDozen is here to find out. This year, we're following twelve studios/coders/artists working on a range of interesting independent projects. From coding guru Chris Hecker to art gaming provocateurMesshof, these are the studios crafting the next Minecrafts and Braids.This is part two of our latest update. Part one washere, and you can catch up with the whole projecthere. Oh, and there's also our dedicatedTwitter feed, of course.Charlie KnightUK coder Charlie Knight has written a range of cult shooters, including Bullet Candy and Space Phallus. He's currently working on Scoregasm.I've been taking a short break fromScoregasm, as a friend is currently writing the online API for highscore stuff. We're letting players tag their profiles so they can create/join groups at will and only see high-scores from relevant players. It's ideal for groups of friends and forum users! Maybe we can get it working so that the server can create an image that updates live to show top scores for a given tag group so that it's embeddable in forum posts/webpages etc. We'll see...Anyway, in my time away from Scoregasm, I've put a couple of my older games on the Mac App Store, which has gone okay so far. I found it pretty funny/amazing thatIrukandjiwas outselling Call Of Duty 4 for a weekend! (Bullet Candyis also available.)Aside from that, I've started work on a sequel to Irukandji. I've been wanting to do this for a while actually, so it's nice to finally be able to make a start and try out some new animations for the monsters. I feel like I've come a long way in terms of what I can achieve making animations in code since doing the first Irukandji, and the new monsters I've created look lovely in motion! Here is a screen grab, imagine it moving in an extremely impressive way.I've also written a simplified web version of Bullet Candy in HTML5 that'savailable to play on my website. It's just a little test thing and only took two days to write, but I guess it's kind of fun for what it is. You'll need a fairly modern browser to play – Chrome seems to work best. Also, you can press the 'h' key in game to turn the ship into a giant horse.Paul HoeyPaul is working on a 2D platforming/fighting game which mixes SNES visuals with modern gaming features.Not a lot going on over the past week, it's mostly been a case of plugging everything together with the initial menus for the game. It's easy to get everything in and working in a couple of hours, but then you spend a lot of time getting the feel of it right. If you just put in menus where everything is instant it doesn't feel right, so you have to take the time to ease the player onto new screens, put in satisfying sounds so that the feedback is good, lots of little things. Some of the things you usually encounter are basics that you take for granted, like drawing centered text or text that fits into a box without splitting the sentences in a weird way. There is middleware available, but for the amount of menu items needed for this game the time taken to learn it is better spent quickly doing up the basics that we need. For something more menu-heavy though a GUI middleware is a massive help.The process for the menus generally starts with some text and basic graphics describing the flow of the menu system, then you can move onto mocking up static images to get an idea of what looks good, what information we need to present to the player and so on. After that you need to really refine things so that before you get to the stage of creating the actual art assets required you know that it will all look good when it's put together. Generally while this is happening I'll start coding everything up, using placeholder art that gets replaced once the final art is complete and it's something that we're happy with. Once you have the logic done it's easy to rearrange where everything is.Gordon Midwood, Different TunaDifferent Tuna is a collaboration between two studios, Different Cloth andTuna. Together they're working onDerrick the Deathfin, coming out on consoles later this year.This last couple of weeks we have been working on shadows and lighting in the game. Getting these right is vital to achieving the papery look and feel that we need. We are making the game inUnity, but to get the effect we wanted, we ended up disregarding Unity lighting and making our own diffuse shadow system.Diffuse shadows are just like normal shadows, but with a greater degree of diffusion(!); they give everything a much softer more tactile look. They are probably best explained by an analogy: imagine you are walking on a beach with a small dog as the sun is setting. Imagine how the dogs shadow is projected onto the sand. Now imagine that same shadow but with a greater degree of diffusion.Alex Galasso,Crankshaft GamesMonstreal-based Crankshaft Games are working onParty of Sin, a four-player co-op platformer vased around the seven deadly sins.Party of Sin made some advances in development at the expense of going to GDC. Our main focus early in the month was getting a milestone list out. We've now got our list of tasks to complete for March and April. The main task is getting the Hell world completed so we can begin testing and tweaking the difficulty and progression of the game.One of our weaker areas, AI, is getting a revisit this week. We've been working with a bastardized HierarchicalFinite State Machinesystem for the last eight months and our AI code has gotten out of hand. I've elected to rebuild it from scratch. We don't have many behaviours implemented at the moment so it isn't a great loss. I've been examining papers and textbooks to try to find the best possible AI system for our game.Looking at industry standard and successful games like Halo we'll be using a Behavior tree. A behavior tree is a list of tasks connected by compound statements like selectors and sequences. It allows us much greater flexibility in creating behaviours. The best part of it is that we can reuse large pieces of the tree instead of rebuilding them all the time. We've got this with our current HFSM system, but it's not standardised and the code is very hard to follow. I'll be building a Behavior Tree system in the next few days and building new behaviours with that.On the art side, we've completed the visuals for Hell3 and are moving on to Hell4. Liz Hollerman, our lead artist, is out of town for a week visiting friends in Seattle, so we'll have to make due without her. Once the new behaviour is in place we'll be working on pumping out lots of cool encounters with angels.Andy Schatz,Pocketwatch Games: GDC interviewCurrently working on the highly anticipated co-op robbery game, Monaco (described on the studio's website as 'Gauntlet meets Hitman'), PocketWatch games were at theGames Developers Conferencelast month. Here's Andy to tell us what this annual gaming get-together can do for smaller studios.So how useful is GDC to indie developers in general?One of the most important things you can do as an indie is be a part of the community of indie developers. We all watch each other's backs, and we often act in concert with one another in order to make sure we don't get screwed by the big players in the industry. And so for me, GDC is more a chance to drink beer with my fellow indies, commiserate with and inspire each other. If I wore a suit I would call it networking.What were the key talks/sessions for you and what did you learn?Derek Yu's talk was fantastic [there's a report on ithere] – it seemed to confirm some of the things I've learned while working on Monaco. But while I love going to talks when I have the opportunity, I spent most of GDC preparing for my own talks, going to meetings, and hanging out with other developers.What did you cover in your talk and what was the reaction?I spoke several times: I was on the panel talking about the first year ofindiefund, which Monaco is partially funded by. I was part of the Experimental Gameplay Workshop talking about fresh perspectives on user-generated content, andI gave a lectureon the development philosophy that led me to win the IGF with Monaco after only 15 weeks of work. I also was lucky enough to present the Grand Prize at the IGF awards ceremony which was won, not surprisingly, by Minecraft.I was totally caught off guard by the overwhelming reaction to my lecture about the development of Monaco, at least if you go by the twitter reaction.  At the end of that talk I decided to have a play session of Monaco on the projector screens, so I invited up three people from the audience to play.  It was a huge risk but it turned out really well. That's the sort of thing that a big studio just wouldn't do, and I think people recognised that and appreciated it.How has the experience altered your development plans for 2011?Not much, although I started talking with a couple developers about my plans for after 2011. Some grand plans have been hatched!Other stuffIndie12 member,Mike Bithell, hasn't much to report this month, but wanted to point readers to, 'the massively talented guys working onQUBE'. Joystiq has an articlehere.
Biz Stone describes how he turned an offer of cash and stock down from Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg Photograph: Guillermo Arias/APA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle Officially Ends Support For QR Code in Places &gt;&gt; Understanding Google Maps &amp; Local SearchWow. That's that, then. NFC, take the stage.Twitter's Biz Stone Talks About Awkward Acquisition Meeting With Zuck On Howard Stern"[Biz Stone] said [meeting with Zuckerberg about selling Twitter to Facebook] was awkward from the start. Biz was trying to throw jokes around, and each joke died. 'It seemed like he had twelve people in his head,' explains Biz, 'He was prepared for every scenario.' Zuck told Ev and Biz that he doesn't like to talk numbers, but if they told him a number he would say yes or no. The $500 million price was thrown out and Zuck responded with 'that's a big number.' Eventually Biz says there was an offer of a mix of cash and stock but when Ev returned to the office that afternoon, he wrote Zuck a note that they were flattered by the offer but not interested in selling. And the rest is history."Microsoft co-founder lays bare his battles with Bill Gates &gt;&gt; The Guardian"Relations worsened as Microsoft took off. Gates would prowl the car park to see who came in on the weekend. He thrived on conflict and sarcasm; he and Allen would argue for hours at a stretch. Then Gates brought in Steve Ballmer, the firm's current boss, to help manage the company. Gates offered Ballmer 8.75% of the firm, angering other staff and Allen, who had agreed to a far smaller percentage. In 1982 Allen contracted Hodgkin's lymphoma. When he returned to work relations with Gates and Ballmer hit a new low. Allen claims the pair undermined him and he overheard them discussing ways of diluting his stake in the firm. "Unable to stand it any longer, I burst in on them and shouted, 'This is unbelievable! It shows your true character, once and for all,'" he writes."Samsung installs keylogger on its laptop computers &gt;&gt; Network World"While setting up a new Samsung computer laptop with model number R525 in early February 2011, I came across an issue that mirrored what Sony BMG did six years ago. Â After the initial set up of the laptop, I installed licensed commercial security software and then ran a full system scan before installing any other software. The scan found two instances of a commercial keylogger called StarLogger installed on the brand new laptop. Files associated with the keylogger were found in a c:\windows\SL directory. "According to a Starlogger description, StarLogger records every keystroke made on your computer on every window, even on password protected boxes." He's a security consultant, by the way - so this is legit. Samsung's response is promised in the next article. Stay tuned..Does it Matter if Android is Open? &gt;&gt; tecosystems"The question remains: what does it mean? Does it matter if Android is open or closed? "Free software advocates would likely argue that it does, as would developers and enthusiasts wishing to apply open sourced Honeycomb code to a wide variety of platforms from handsets to tablets. And developers are, remember, the New Kingmakers. "But while developers are unquestionably and understandably disappointed, there is little evidence to suggest that a less than open Android will have a material cost in developer traction associated with it. Apple's iOS, a platform that is not open source, has immense developer traction with over 350,000 applications available at the moment. And Android itself, increasingly attractive to developers as it represents the volume shipping platform, has in fact been developed in a closed fashion previously. Precedent for the decision not to open source Honeycomb immediately includes the initial code drop, which was developed behind closed doors."RTF Buffer Overflow Exploit in Action &gt;&gt; Imperva Data Security Blog"This is a Microsoft problem where .rtf files can be exploited. It's a known vulnerability that was used recently when hackers tried lure people to click on files with false messages about helping Japanese earthquake victims. Â This exploit spreads malware. Interestingly, the hackers evaded AV and IPS detection." Yes, yes, but it's against RTF files - those ones you thought were safe. (Not clear whether Apple's TextEdit program is safe from this.) The programming used by the malware writers is very impressive too. Pity there isn't a positive use for it, really.Tablets might be a flash in the pan, says Microsoft's Craig Mundie &gt;&gt; Sydney Morning HeraldMundie is the global chief research and strategy officer, and draws a distinction between smartphones ("mobile) and laptops ("portable") and tablets (not specified). 'Mobile is something that you want to use while you're moving, and portable is something that you move and then use. "'These are going to bump into one another a little bit and so today you can see tablets and pads and other things that are starting to live in the space in between. Personally I don't know whether that space will be a persistent one or not.' "Mundie went on to talk about a new type of smartphone technology he had seen in the labs. When the user looks at the phone, 'instead of seeing a screen it can beam individual rays of light into your eyes right on your retina ... [so] you can look at your phone and see HDTV'. Interesting for other points about "the room as computer" too.Google Releases In-App Purchasing for Android &gt;&gt; Mashable"Google has released In-app Billing for Android, finally giving mobile developers a much-needed source of revenue for their apps. "In-App Billing gives developers another way to monetize their Android apps. iOS has had in-app purchasing since June 2009, helping app developers generate millions from virtual goods, in-game upgrades, content purchases and more. Like Apple, Google will take a 30% cut from all in-app purchases."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
How is it Thursday already?!
Paul Baran, who has died aged 84, was one of the two inventors of packet switching, the technology that underpins the internet. The origins of&nbsp;the internet go back to the 1960s, when scientists at the US Advanced Research Projects Agency (Arpa) were wrestling with the problem of how to connect many geographically dispersed computers. Unbeknown to Arpa, the problem had already been solved several years earlier, in an entirely different context, by Baran, an unassuming and greatly admired engineer who made his scientific breakthrough at the Rand Corporation in Santa Monica, California, and went on to found several hi-tech companies.He was born in Grodno, Poland. His family emigrated to the US in 1928 and settled in Philadelphia, where his father established a grocery shop. Baran graduated in electrical engineering from the nearby Drexel Institute of&nbsp;Technology in 1949. His first job was as a technician with the Eckert-Mauchly Computer Corporation, the world's first computer company, which eventually became the Unisys corporation. At&nbsp;that time, however, the company was besieged with technical and financial problems and Baran, who saw no great future for computers, decided to leave.He settled in Los Angeles, where he took a job with Hughes Aircraft and enrolled for evening classes at UCLA, where he gained a master's degree in electrical engineering. In 1959 he joined Rand, which had been established in 1946 to do military research for the US Air Force. By the late 1950s, it was at the centre of nuclear politics and strategy. An issue of great concern at this time was the vulnerability of US military communications to a nuclear strike from Russia. If the command-and-control network was destroyed, the ability of the US to retaliate would be threatened.Baran invented a futuristic solution to this problem in the form of a network held together by scores of small computers. Messages would be passed ("like a hot potato") from one computer to the next towards its destination. Even if the network was massively damaged, the message would still get through. Another innovation was to chop all messages into small blocks so that they would not be delayed by long messages clogging the network. The blocks would arrive at their destination in a random order via different routes, and the computer at the destination end would reconstitute the original messages from the individual blocks.Baran's digital network proposal was at the cutting edge of computer technology and would have been hugely expensive to build. Numerous technical objections were raised by senior engineers steeped in the old analogue technology. In order to answer his critics, over the next few years Baran compiled a series of 11 reports. These were never secret, because it was believed that resilient networks were needed by friend and foe alike to resolve an escalating nuclear standoff. In the end, Baran failed to gain support for his proposal and, in 1968, with two other Rand alumni, he established the non-profitInstitute for the Future, where he became an authority on the emerging digital networks.Around this time Arpa was designing the Arpanet, the prototype of the internet, and their attention was drawn to the work of both Baran and the British computer scientist Donald Davies, who had developed similar ideas at the National Physical Laboratory in Teddington, Middlesex. Davies (who was unaware of Baran's work) called his system "packet switching", and that name stuck, although the underlying concepts were the same in both proposals. Most importantly, both Baran and Davies had conducted and published detailed studies which established packet switching as a viable technology rather than just a bright idea. This enabled Arpa to commit to the system, and it remains the underlying technology of the internet.In the 1970s Baran combined his inventiveness with an entrepreneurial flair. He eventually founded seven companies, all involved in various aspects of digital communications. Three of his companies achieved annual sales of more than $1bn, some were acquired by major corporations, and a few failed. His most recent venture, established in 2003, wasGoBackTV, an internet television infrastructure venture. At the time of his death he was technical adviser and chairman of the board. He received numerous honours and awards, including the Marconi prize and the US national medal of technology and innovation.Baran was predeceased, in 2007, by Evelyn, his wife since 1955. He is survived by his companion, Ruth Rothman, his son, David, and three grandchildren.• Paul Baran, computer scientist, born 29&nbsp;April 1926; died 26 March 2011
Google will be subject to an independent review of the privacy controls on its most popular products – including Gmail and Street View – every two years for the next two decades following pressure from US regulators.The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has been investigating privacy flaws in Google Buzz, a social media service tied to the company's Gmail service. The regulator on Wednesday accused Google of using "deceptive tactics [that] violated its own privacy promises to consumers" when it launched Buzz in February last year.Google faced a privacy backlash when it launched Buzz because it initially used Gmail users' private contact lists to build their friends network, then made these lists available to be viewed by the rest of the world. The internet giant quickly changed the settings so that contact lists were private as a default.The company has now agreed to set up a comprehensive new privacy policy, including asking users for their "affirmative consent" before changing how personal information is shared, the FTC said."For users who joined the Buzz network, the controls for limiting the sharing of their personal information were confusing and difficult to find," the FTC added in a statement.The Google director of privacy in product and engineering, Alma Whitten, wroteon the company's official blog: "The launch of Google Buzz fell short of our usual standards for transparency and user control – letting our users and Google down."While we worked quickly to make improvements, regulators – including the US Federal Trade Commission – unsurprisingly wanted more detail about what went wrong and how we could prevent it from happening again. Today, we've reached an agreement with the FTC to address their concerns."The FTC chairman, Jon Leibowitz, added: "This is a tough settlement that ensures that Google will honour its commitments to consumers and build strong privacy protections into all of its operations."
Bill Gates betrayed his ailing business partner and tried to deprive him of his share of the Microsoft fortune, according to a scathing memoir fromPaul Allen, the company's billionaire co-founder.Allen portrays the Microsoft mogul as a sarcastic bully who tried to force his founding partner out of the firm and to cut his share in the company as he was recovering from cancer. The book, Idea Man: a Memoir by the co-founder of Microsoft, is set to go on sale on 17 April, and an extract appears in May's Vanity Fair magazine andhas been released online.Despite Gates's moves, Allen held on to his Microsoft stake – one that contributed to the lion's share of what Forbes magazine's estimates to be a $13bn (£8.1bn) fortune.The two were once inseparable and met at Lakeside high school in Seattle where Allen paints a picture of the couple as the original nerds. Allen didn't fit in amid the golfers and tennis players "who carried their rackets wherever they went". Then in 1968 he met Gates, another gawky kid who was also spending all his free time hunched over the school's first computer, anASR-33 Teletype model."His blond hair went all over the place. You could tell three things about Bill Gates pretty quickly. He was really smart. He was really competitive; he wanted to show you how smart he was. And he was really, really persistent."At the age of 13 Gates was already poring over Fortune magazine and planning on building a company. When Gates went to Harvard, Allen followed him and the two spent their spare time working on ideas for a software firm."I'd assumed that our partnership would be a&nbsp;50-50 proposition. But Bill had another idea," Allen writes. Gates had put in more work than Allen, and eventually after some quibbling from Gates, Allen agreed to a&nbsp;64-36 split. Allen writes that when the relationship soured he wondered again about that split. "I'd been taught that a deal was a deal and your word was your bond. Bill was more flexible," he writes. Gates pushed deals "as hard and as far as he could".Relations worsened as Microsoft took off. Gates would prowl the car park to see who came in on the weekend. He thrived on conflict and sarcasm; he and Allen would argue for hours at a stretch. Then Gates brought inSteve Ballmer, the firm's current boss, to help manage the company. Gates offered Ballmer 8.75% of the firm, angering other staff and Allen, who had agreed to a far smaller percentage.In 1982 Allen contracted Hodgkin's lymphoma. When he returned to work relations with Gates and Ballmer hit a new low. Allen claims the pair undermined him and he overheard them discussing ways of diluting his stake in the firm. "Unable to stand it any longer, I burst in on them and shouted, 'This is unbelievable! It shows your true character, once and for all,'" he writes.Ballmer and Gates later apologised but the partnership was over. Allen resigned and Gates tried to buy him out for $5&nbsp;a&nbsp;share. Allen refused and said he wouldn't discuss less than $10. Gates balked at the price and Allen left with what was to become an enormous fortune. Shares are trading at more than $25 and the company is now worth more than $214bn."While my recollection of many of these events may differ from Paul's, I&nbsp;value his friendship and the important contributions he made to the world of technology and at Microsoft," Gates said in a written statement given to the Wall Street Journal.
Apple's iPad 2 has been virtually out of stock in the UK since its launch on Friday. Streams of shiny geeks have been left dissapointed and empty-handed by gadget shops up and down the land.But we have good news. Dixons, PC World and Currys expect to get more iPad 2s in stock today. Most will be going to those who have pre-ordered, but if you hurry you might just be able to buy one over the counter. Fancy that.Argos, meanwhile, has been left woefully short handed. Its 750 stores in the UK and Ireland ran out of stockon Monday– and doesn't expect to get any more until 25 April. Sounds like a bad April Fools' joke.At Phones4U, which was reported to have been given just one iPad 2 for each of its 500+ stores, the devices are now "down to the last few", according to a spokeswoman. No word, yet, on when more will be available.John Lewis, which is famously "never knowingly undersold", has sold out. The retailer says it will have more of the Apple gadgets in time for the weekend. As does Tesco, which encourages customers toorder online.Now, over to you. Tweet@GuardianTechor@JoshHallidaywith the store name, location (preferably with the postcode), and whether there are any iPad 2s in stock. We'll update the map below.Map now closed. Either iPad-hunters were too disappointed to tweet or there is an infinitely better way to do this. We'll crack it next time.
Mobile developers have a healthy disrespect for analyst smartphone forecasts. How many companies predicted five years ago that a Google-powered OS would have left rivals for dust in 2011, after all?That said, this month's set of forecastsfrom OvumandIDCdo have predictions worth chewing over for any developer trying to put together a long-term strategy.They share the view that Android will continue to lead the pack in the next few years, and by some margin. Two other points are just as interesting, though: the analysts' belief that there will be at least four smartphone platforms with a sizeable user base, and their confidence that Microsoft's Windows Phone will not be a flop.Here are the topline stats. In 2016, Ovum thinks Android will take a 38% market share of smartphone shipments, followed by Apple's iOS (17.5%), Windows Phone (17.2%) and RIM's BlackBerry OS (16.5%).Other OS will account for the remaining 10.8%, with Ovum expecting at least one other smartphone OS to "achieve mainstream success" by 2016, citing bada, webOS and MeeGo as possibles, or a new entrant.IDC actually thinks Microsoft will overhaul Apple a year earlier in 2015, when it sees the smartphone market being split thus: Android (45.4%), Windows Phone (20.9%), iOS (15.3%), BlackBerry (13.7%). It thinks Symbian will have shrunk to a 0.2% market share due to Nokia switching to Windows Phone, while others are pegged at having a 4.6% share in 2015.Will all this come to pass? Stick your finger in the wind and guess: come 2015, Apple may have launched an entry-level iPhone. RIM might have pulled a Nokia and ditched its own OS in favour of, say, Android. And China in particular may throw up the wildcard fifth platform, with China Mobile, China Unicom and Baidu rumoured to be working on their own smartphone operating systems.The analysts are bullish about the prospects of Android and Windows Phone, and they don't see iOS or BlackBerry falling away too much either. What about developers though – do you agree that a few years down the line there will still be even four (or even five) major smartphone platforms demanding your attention? Post a comment with your views.
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team'Choose your own job title for the UK Census', they said &gt;&gt; fscked.co.ukQ: Briefly describe what you do (did) in your main job.Â  A: sql injection attack testing. With xkcd link, of course.A message to you, Larry &gt;&gt; Nick Carr"Yes, it would be nice to share Google's view of itself as a selfless, righteous defender of the public's right to unbridled creativity, but the fact that the company just grabbed a frivolous patent on the use of logo doodles makes it clear that its governing point of view is not societal but commercial. It defends its own intellectual capital, to sometimes ludicrous extremes, even as it plays Robin Hood with the property of others." Brutal takedown.Windows Phone will have second-largest share in 2015, overtaking iPhone &gt;&gt; IDCInteresting: IDC says 2015, unsurprisingly, sees Android with the largest share (45.4%); and suggests that Nokia's strategic alliance with Microsoft will be a success, to take 20.9%, ahead of iOS (15.3%) and RIM (13.7%). Basically, a four-horse race. Over to you, Nokia.Website blocking – a primer &gt;&gt; LynxVery useful primer on site blocking put together by Malcolm Hutty, head of public affairs at Lynx. I imagine Ofcom bods will be poring over this, at Jeremy Hunt's behest.My Android Developer Income Report #8 &gt;&gt; KreciInteresting: selling ebooks turns out to be a good income stream too.Nokia's open letter to Symbian developers &gt;&gt; NokiaPurnima Kochikar, vice president of Forum Nokia: "I've been asked many times how long we will support Symbian and I'm sure for many of you it feels we have been avoiding the question. The truth is, it is very difficult to provide a single answer. We hope to bring devices based on Windows Phone to market as quickly as possible, but Windows Phone will not have all language and all localization capabilities from day one.Â  "In many markets, including markets where Symbian is currently the lead smartphone platform with significant market share such as China, India, Russia and Turkey, we will continue to make our Symbian portfolio as competitive as possible while we work with Microsoft to introduce Windows Phone. Â For that reason certain markets will play a more significant role in selling the 150 million Symbian devices than others and we will be selling devices long after Windows Phone devices from Nokia have already started to appear in other markets."Keeping SSDs in TRIM: doing the math &gt;&gt; TUAWVery good overview of why you need TRIM (or something equivalent in the firmware..) if you're using a solid-state drive. You can replace "OSX" with "Windows" throughout, though of course Windows 7 offers TRIM built in - something Mac OS X doesn't yet.Windows? Laptops? They'll Never Catch On! &gt;&gt; TechnologizerThose who are deeply embedded in current uses of existing technologies will not see the potential of new ones.Nokia's tablet path may exclude Microsoft -source &gt;&gt; Reuters"Nokia's strategy for entering the tablet computer market may not include Microsoft, its recently announced partner for smartphones, according to a person with knowledge of the company's thinking. "The Finnish cellphone maker is still considering its options for tablets and these include MeeGo, a platform Nokia has been jointly developing with Intel, the source said." Intriguing.Nokia to Launch Another U.S. Phone Using Older System &gt;&gt; WSJ.comA week-old article, but worth noting. "The Finnish company will launch the C7 smartphone based on the Symbian operating system with T-Mobile USA, say people familiar with the matter. (On Sunday, AT&amp;T Inc. said it was buying T-Mobile for $39 billion from Deutsche Telekom AG.)"Nokia's new chief executive, Stephen Elop, has pledged to continue investing in Symbian through the transition to Windows-based phones. Analysts say the company can't just sit on its heels given Symbian's still large user base and developer support..."Charles Golvin, principal analyst with Forrester Research Inc., says Nokia has to do everything possible to make its Symbian developers feel loved so it can get them to develop applications for it Windows Phone 7 smartphones down the line. "There is an element here of just maintaining momentum in the market," he said. "They have to continue to be seen as a player, even if the software platform they have isn't altogether competitive." Might AT&amp;T bin it, though?Amazon Introduces a Digital Music Locker &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Several experts in digital music say that the music locker business is still legally ambiguous. For example, though some companies let people upload their music and listen to it elsewhere without any outcry from the labels, others, like MP3tunes, have been sued by music labels. Another issue: it is impossible for Web companies to tell whether a song was bought legally or downloaded illegally."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's already Wednesday – how did that happen?
Last month, we introducedThe Indie Dozen, a selection of 12 indie studios all working on intriguing projects, due for release sometime in 2011. We're set to follow all of them through a year of their development lives, finding out about the trials, tribulations and delights of coding games for a living.Here is the first part of our March round-up. Let's find out what the Indie12 have been up to...Jack Nilssen,Dark AcreVancouver film school graduate Jack Nilssen is working on several projects, including an ambitious combination of Star Flight, Star Control and Privateer.I launched the prototype of my tilt-puzzle,Ball of Steel, to Kongregate in February, as part of their Unity Game Contest. I'm also currently in talks to do some contract development for a media firm in town, some form of mobile game that promotes cultural awareness.First part of the week was spent re-adjusting to Vancouver time, and poring over the feedback generated for Ball of Steel via Kongregate and a private circle of playtesters.In the current basic Dark Acre dev cycle, two weeks are allotted for pre-production, where all of the paper-planning and code-snippet prototyping gets done to prove out an idea. Ball of Steel came about in a rush at the end of the last cycle when the previous project imploded.  So since Ball is a proven concept, these pre-pro weeks have been focused on deciding what (if any) new features to add, what needs tuning (game speed was the overwhelming response from players), and the layouts of new levels.I'd like to add 80 more levels to make it worth the baseline price in any given iStore, so some of this pre-pro time has been given to mapping those out. Since the whole thing is grid- and tile-based, it's a matter of sitting down with the graphing paper and drawing. 80 might seem like a lot, but once there are some solid themes to wrap the levels around (like the various mechanics in the game) it really isn't so bad.In addition to the above work on the core Dark Acre project, I've been very closely involved in some collaborative efforts that I'm currently not at liberty to discuss. I've had to factor those into the schedule as well, so the week delay will hopefully help me better accommodate the extra work.Finally, I've taken on an apprentice coder and am spending a couple of hours each day teaching what little I know of C# and how it works with Unity. I taught English for 10 years in Japan, so the mechanics of instruction aren't new to me, but attempting to teach something as complex as a computer language has been a bit of a wake-up call.  I'm pretty sure I'm getting more out of the lessons than the student, as it's helped me organize my own thoughts on programming and given me more insight into how code should work.So there you have it. To say it's been busy would be a bit of an understatement, but there's nowhere I'd rather be, and nothing I'd rather be doing.Dan Marshall,Zombie CowUK studio Zombie Cow is currently working on DLC for its sexual health platformer, Privates.The last couple of weeks have been pretty manic. We couldn't afford to go to GDC this time round, and as it turns out it landed slap bang on a really important week; the Privates DLC level is in final, final, definitely final testing, so there have been a few squiffy bugs and issues to sort out. I don't mind bugs when they're outright hilarious, but at this point they're all just boring, annoying things that need fixing up.I'm also now in full swing on The Next Thing – I've started to scribble down a few ideas about what it might be, and I'm quite excited about how it's taking shape. When I lie awake at night playing it through in my head, it's a really entertaining little game. For me, this is the fun part of Game Development, where you've got a blank page staring back at you and you can just start drawing anything So many questions... What does the main character look like? What sort of weapons will the game have? Will it even have weapons, or will the player be using a toilet brush to scare enemies off? Actually, that's pretty good, I might use that.One thing that's already clear, the next game's already my most manic and ambitious yet. Uh oh.Terry CavanaghThe talented coder behind VVVVVV and Don't Look Back is working on multiple projects including the RPG, Nexus City, with Jonas Kyratzes.I was at GDC! It was pretty amazing, but I'm absolutely knackered. Already looking forward to next year, though.I only went to two talks in the main GDC sessions, and I had to sneak because I didn't have a proper pass. The first was theexperimental gameplay sessions, which was amazing and inspirational - each game had an advocate who talked about what they found interesting. They could also discuss the work of creators who weren't present, like my flatmate Increpare's game,Opera Omnia.The other session I snuck into wasSWERY's design talk on the making of the beautiful gameDeadly Premonition. He discussed the seven concepts that define his approach to narrative game design – all of which were interesting in and of themselves, but moreso when considered in terms of how they led to the direction of the game.For example, in Deadly Premonition, the character can sleep, eat, and shave. It turns out, these are present as gameplay elements, not because they make the game more immersive or anything like that, but because SWERY wanted players to think of Deadly Premonition outside of the game. When you shave or sleep in real life, he explained, you should think of Deadly Premonition.I also attended theIndie Games Summitthis year, which was also wonderful. There seemed to be less focus on indie startups and more on personal stories and designer perspectives, which I really appreciated. Highlights for me wereMichael Todd's personal talk on game design and depression, and Edmund and Tommy telling their story of what went into creatingSuper Meat Boy.I played a lot ofNIDHOGGat theIGF. I dunno if it was beginners luck or whatever, but it turns out I'm awesome at it. Won about 80 games in a row – the only people to beat me wereDaniel Benmerguiand Messhof himself. Was delighted to see it win an award at the festival, it's an amazing game.Dave Castelnuovo,Bolt CreativeBased in San Francisco, Bolt is the small studio behind iPhone sensation,Pocket God. The team is currently working on a range of spin-offs to that game.I partially went to GDC. I didn't get a badge because we couldn't afford to take the entire week off, but I decided to attend some developer gatherings, a couple business meetings and some interviews with a few online outlets.The biggest benefit I get from GDC is meeting with other developers. We exchange secrets, talk about future cross-overs and in general just get to know each other and have a good time. We have a couple cross-overs tentatively planned which will turn out as incredible updates for Pocket God.Other than GDC, our biggest struggle is managing a large number of projects while keeping our team small. This last week we submitted updates forPocket God Journey to Uranusand the iPhone version of Pocket God. Now we have a week of non-development time so we have to rush and get all our meetings, business matters, and planning out of the way before we need to get back into crunch mode again. I have a list of 10 ongoing partner management threads I have to take care of in between updates. I usually completely neglect them once we get two weeks from our submit date, and then have to spend a good week catching up with everyone. It's very hard for me to be in a space where I have to talk to a lot of people and respond to emails while I am trying to be productive from a development perspective.We are also in the process of finding art help for Allan [Dye, the company's designer] before we get too busy again. It's been really hard to find the perfect resource that doesn't need a lot of direction. The last couple of people we tried out actually used up more of Allan's time than him just doing everything himself. I guess that's the negative aspect of not growing into a larger company that has management built into its structure. We are really trying to keep things small so we can continue to work at home and keep expenses low. I really enjoy getting to see my family despite working crazy hours – sorting out an office and building a proper team would get in the way of that. We also want to continue doing the fun part of development and not become overseers.This last few weeks have been mostly about us struggling to get bigger while staying small…Other stuffChris Hecker has had a hectic month, speaking at both the Game Developers Conference and Pax East. You can finda version of his Independent Games Summit speechon his blog.Budding developers have until Sunday April 3 to apply for this year'sDare to be Digitalgame design competition. Organised by the University of Abertay, the contest is open to students in teams of five. There are more entry detailshere, and you can also find a list of vacancieshereif you're interested in joining a team, rather than forming your own.
India is a country of 1.2 billion people and, while only 7% if the population use the internet according to the most recent internet stats reports, Forrester Research has predicted that the country will so be the third largest online marketplace, after the US and China.On this India special edition of Tech Weekly, Aleks Krotoski is joined by HP Labs India's director, Sudhir Dixit, and senior research scientists, Geetha Manjunath and Sri Ganesh Madhvnath to talk about the interests of the web's next billion users. Unique economic, cultural and technological challenges face the subcontinent, and HP is working to develop prototypes to address everything from the interface to the technological economics. Some of their solutions sound straight out of science fiction, like voice recognition with facial triggering and hyperlinked paper.Others, such as mobile social networking service RocketTalk, seem to be India-centric. But is this the case? Aleks finds out about the latest trends to emerge from the country, how decisions to adopt semantic web and W3C standards will affect the west's web use, and what we might expect to get our hands on in the future.
I've got an idea for how we could use some of this government open data.We could … wait for it … use it to map public toilets!"Is that it?" I hear you cry, and with good reason. Every call for ideas on open data has featured the suggestion that we use it to map toilets.The problem is that there isn't any government data on where the public toilets are (or when they are open or who they are accessible to). Public toilets are provided at local government level and even then it is on a voluntary basis.Consequently the data needs to be coaxed out of over 300 councils who may or may not know what open data is, and may or may not see the point in publishing it.This is why I came up with The Great British Public Toilet Map, an idea for a public participation website that tracks which councils have published public toilet open data, and which have not.Where the data exists, the map shows the toilet location and information about them. Where data does not exist, the public can contact their councils to ask them to join in with the project.Faced with requests direct from the public, and seeing that other councils are participating, the councils will hopefully publish the data and we can all use it to make toilet maps containing useful information that is currently fragmented across hundreds of council websites.Are toilets really that big a deal? What sort of person lobbies a council about toilet data?I work on a research project called TACT3, funded by New Dynamics of Ageing. We've conducted 100 interviews with people about needing, finding and using public toilets. When a 26-year-old with irritable bowel syndrome says they won't go to new places unless someone checks the toilet provision first, you start to realise that something is wrong. This is affecting people's quality of life.Many older people have continence concerns and only go to places where they know there is a toilet. Many more suffer from an urgent need to go as a side effect of water tablets prescribed for diabetes or high blood pressure. Consequently if they go out for the day then they don't take the pills. "Tempting providence", as one lady put it.Self-dehydration is no way to manage your health. However, even knowing the answer to that most common of questions: "where is the toilet?" is only solving half the problem.For this data to be really useful we need to know more than where the nearest toilet is. We need to know that it is a toilet that meets our needs. Imagine you are unsteady on your feet and the toilet is down a flight of stairs. Imagine that there is a baby-changing unit in the Ladies, but you are a dad. Imagine you're on your way home from the nightshift and the nearest toilet is shut. Imagine the nearest toilet costs 20p and you don't have 20p. You do not need to have a medical condition to be in a situation where you have some pretty serious "continence concerns".Information about public toilet location, opening times and facilities is information councils have. Sharing this information as open data should not make councils nervous in the same way as that financial data might; it's just useful information that connects a public need to a public service.The biggest risk that councils face is infringing their Ordnance Survey licensing agreement. Despite OS making huge leaps in opening up its data, many councils still insist that publishing the co-ordinates of public toilets and other points of interest provided by OS is not permitted, ironic considering this2008 Guardian article highlightingthe need for OS to move with the times uses public toilets as its example.What I really like about The Great British Public Toilet Map is that it is driven by the public. One of the biggest debates in open data is "how do we get people to use the data that we publish?" If we cannot get people to use the data then we cannot get local government to see the point in providing it.The problem is that we're asking the wrong question. We should be asking "what data do people want?" and through The Great British Public Toilet Map the public are telling us in no uncertain terms.If I am honest then I also like that we would be asking the local authorities to take responsibility for their public toilet information. The other option would be to cut out the councils and crowd-source the data. This is what most of the existing toilet-finder apps are trying, though there is no frontrunner.Of course this can work, (as can adding toilet information to OpenStreetMap and using their data), but this requires a huge amount of data being in the system to make it useful to the public as an app, and then worth their time contributing to it.The apps also need moderators that stop people from listing random pubs as public toilets despite the sign on the door saying "customer use only". Meanwhile the pub receiving a grant from the council under a Community Toilet Scheme is nowhere to be seen.The other issue is, and correct me if I am wrong, if you've gone to a public toilet and found that it's closed for a month due to building works, you've probably got more pressing things to do than correct the data in your iPhone app.Would it not be better if the council, who ordered the work and knew about the closure, was updating their open data that your app is using, thus stopping you from being sent to that toilet in the first place?Council-provided open data could greatly improve all the existing toilet-finding apps and provide the critical mass of data from which to launch an even better service, such as "Trip-Advisor for toilets" as one lady excitedly suggested.I know I sound terribly idealistic, but then there already is a National Public Toilet Map.It's for Australia, it is funded by the Department of Health and Ageing and it provides detailson 14,000 public toiletsprovided by more than 1,200 organisations. The information is also provided as open data.If Australia can publish public toilet open data, then so can we. We just need to ask our councils to provide the data – data that can tell us where we can go, when we "need to go".Gail Knight was the runner-up in the recent OpenUp awards organised by The Stationery Office (TSO) with her proposal. The judges felt that her idea deserved a wider audience because it has such social value and illustrates key elements about open data: it would improve people's lives, it would free data that is already available, and would create a commercial opportunity for websites or apps that could use it. - Charles Arthur, one of the panel of OpenUp judges.
Last October, Microsoft launched itsWindows Phone 7platform to a favourable critical reception and decent sales. The first range of handsets from manufacturers such as HTC, LG and Samsung shipped a respectable 1.5m units in the first six weeks of release, and of course, there's now a partnership with Nokia to (eventually) boost device numbers.But with Microsoft cagey on updating handset sales figures, I wanted to know how WP7 is fairing as a games platform. Right now, developers seem curious enough about the hardware to start cautiously porting across titles from iOS and Android. The question is, can the community be ready to commit wholly to another platform – especially one with an ambiguous level of consumer uptake? And then there's the Xperia Play lurking on the horizon...We spoke to several WP7 developers about their experiences with the platform, and where they see things going.From the outset, it seems there is unanimous agreement on the key strength of Windows Phone 7 as a games device: its seamless integration with Xbox Live, the online gaming service that has contributed heavily to the success of Microsoft's console. When you switch on your handset, there's an Xbox Live icon on the main menu – click on this, provide your gamer ID and password and you have access to your XBL account. Now, any game you play on the device adds points to your gamer score, just like an Xbox title. You also have access to leaderboards, and to your friends list so you can challenge mates to multiplayer games or just spy on them and see what they're playing.Of course, there are similar services on iOS and Android devices (ScoreloopandOpenFeint, for example, or Apple's own Game Center), but for the 50 million Xbox owners out there, the Windows Phone 7 system is convenient and nicely holistic. "The importance of being able to connect to the Xbox live community goes way beyond being able to play games on the handsets," says Mark Clarke ofEarworm Mobile, who make musical brain training apps. "This stretches from mobile multiplayer games, through community building with your gaming clan and friends, to the multiple marketing opportunities of being able to tap into the brand loyalty engendered by the console itself. It's a truly mobile multiplayer community."For developers, too, there are advantages to the phone's use ofXNA Game Studio. This managed development environment is based around the programming language C#, which can cause problems for larger studios who have a lot of their game tech written in C++. However, the easily portability of code betweeb WP7 and Xbox, plus the wealth of online tutorials, libraries and community support, is a massive advantage, especially for smaller and less experienced teams."Microsoft offers many tools for developers both experienced and inexperienced, to rapidly produce applications for Windows 7 Mobile," says Steven Batchelor-Manning, of Nottingham-based studio,Nerf Games. "XNA is fairly open and simple to use. This allows for easy prototyping and testing of products before entering extensive development, which you don't get with other mobile platforms."We program in C#, using the Microsoft tool kits such as C# express edition and XNA 4.0. This allows us to develop the same project for PC, Xbox and Windows 7 Mobile, whilst using the same collection of assets. It rapidly increases the rate at which we create the final product and means we can concentrate our efforts on quality games. Developing for Windows Mobile 7 alongside PC and Xbox development only adds about 30% extra development time."He is similarly complimentary about developer support. "The tools provided by Microsoft have really low barriers in terms of computer know-how. It also produces a lot of good tutorials. But actually, the vast majority comes from the community. TheMicrosoft App Hub(previously known as Creators' Club), allows developers to come together and share knowledge, tools and tutorials. Microsoft also provides a Windows 7 Mobile emulator for developers, which gives an accurate representation of a Windows 7 Mobile device, allowing for cost-effective development as we don't need to purchase the phones."Mark Clarke agrees: "There are lots of example apps produced by Microsoft, and their help has been exemplary.  The community is excellent, too – for exampleCode ProjectandStack Overfloware useful resources. The development environment is several generations ahead of what Apple offers. We have seen iPhone apps that have taken days to transfer to Android that have been transferred to Windows within hours.""We're hugely indebted to Jeff Weber who created theFarseer physics enginebased onBox2D, without it our game would have taken a great deal longer to develop," adds Henry Hoffman ofAngry Mango, developer of Bafta-nominated WP7 title, Mush. "I don't think there's been a single occasion where we've been stuck on a problem and the online community haven't already solved it for someone else. Normally, throughout development we'd ask all sorts of questions, but a simple search of the forums proved enough. Also, XNA is so widely used it's difficult to walk into a Game Development course at a University and not bump into a bunch of experts. Our experiences have been that XNA developers are always willing to share their knowledge and help others out."There are fragmentation possibilities, though. As we've seen with Google Android, phones produced by different manufacturers have different technical specifications, which can be a headache for app developers. At the moment, Microsoft dictates a minimum set of requirements from vendors and the base OS is the same on all devices. However, there are concerns that the recent strategy deal with Nokia, which will see the ailing mobile phone giant building its next generation of handsets around the WP7 platform, willmuddy the waters. Nokia appears to have been granted exclusive rights to customise the WP7 offering, and although the companies have denied this will have any impact on the OS, the ambiguity is there.Clarke, though, is hopeful, the alliance will lead to more not less clarity. "The confusion that Nokia was causing amongst the development community with its multiple OSs was something that also had to be resolved if they were to compete with the other major players. If Nokia and Microsoft can successfully couple Nokia's expertise of manufacturing first class hardware with a stable and well supported development environment and ecosystem, the results could make for a formidable and vibrant development platform." At the very least it should ensure that WP7 doesn't go the way of other recent Microsoft mobile initiatives, like the cancelled Kin, or the Zune, which is now available only in North America. One significant barrier to developer support for WP7 is the fear it might be gone by the time a project is completed.There are other controversial elements of the WP7 developer environment. As with Xbox Live Arcade, Windows Phone 7 offers a curated experience, which means Microsoft controls the quality of games appearing on the device. While Apple's approvals system is strict, Windows Phone 7 software apparently has to go through an even more stringent process, designed to prevent the massive duplication of very similar titles.For consumers it's a good feature – it means there aren't thousands of mediocre apps to wade through, while really good games will be easier to find. For developers, however, the system throws up a few problems.  "It has its benefits and its drawbacks," says Batchelor-Manning. "The App Hub offers a good peer review system, where other developers are asked to check over your game. This helps filter out both low quality and bug-ridden titles. We are always given a particular quality to aim for."Once it's got past this stage there is also a chance that Microsoft will veto against your game going on the platform. Ultimately, this prevents the market being swamped, but above this, there seems to be a layer of games by big publishers (EA, etc) that just step past the smaller developers in the queue. This is the biggest drawback of the system. Microsoft is in complete control and smaller developers will always be battling up hill until they reach a point where their title is trending – like Minecraft."As with Xbox Live Arcade, however, Microsoft is set to run its own games promotions, to help market promising titles. The project kicks off this spring with a Must Have games season, which features six Windows Phone 7 titles, including Angry Birds, Doodle Jump, Hydro Thunder and Plants vs Zombies. These sorts of campaigns free smaller developers up from the worry of having to market their titles – but, of course, that's assuming they're lucky enough to make it onto Microsoft's radar (and the first Must Have selection is very much more about promoting WP7 itself, rather than about helping small studios – Angry Birds and Doodle Jump don't really need a lot of help at the moment).Elsewhere, interconnectivity with Xbox console games opens up some intriguing cross-platform gaming possibilities.Fable: Coin Golf, for example, is a simple but well-designed WP7 puzzler based on Lionhead's epic Xbox RPG. It's basically a simulation of pub games like Shove Ha'Penny and skittles, with players guiding coins through a series of obstacle-strewn courses. But the interesting bit is, if the player also owns Fable III on Xbox, any gold they win in Coin Golf is transferred to their console version, where it can be spent on in-game items.Fable: Coin Golf was developed by London-basedIdeaWorks3D, a veteran mobile developer, working in close conjunction with Lionhead. According to studio head Rob Hendry, the cross-platform integration was surprisingly quick and intuitive. "Lionhead's technical team did some great work to make these features straightforward for us to implement," he says. "They provided a back-end service and API for us to communicate with, including player identification by Xbox LIVE gamertag. We simply had to hook up the client side, run a few tests and it just worked. It's great when that happens!""I think what we'll see more of is things like Fable: Coin Golf – actions happening on the phone that have an impact on the console title," says Kevin Unangst, Microsoft's senior global director of PC and Mobile Gaming. "We have things like Full House Poker, which let you play poker on the phone and have that unlock items in the console version, or have part of your bankroll transferred over. Over time, we'll push that further. We ran a video at Mobile World Congress where we showed we could take things like the Kinect data coming out of the sensor on the console and send that over to the Windows Phone 7. Someone playing on Kinect can interact with someone else on a phone, and the phone can receive things like the skeletal data – it boggles your mind the kinds of experiences once you get that kind of interactivity."And here's that video:Rob Hendry reckons we're entering into a new era of true cross-platform gaming. "Because your online presence now has a common identity on all LIVE platforms, any data whatsoever can be pushed to the cloud and retrieved by another app. Before long, we expect we will see true asymmetrical game experiences, where you play a single game from very different perspectives on different platforms. For example, strategy games where you manage your campaign resources on your phone, then drop into the action on your console.  Or role playing games that use the phone for customising avatars and the console for questing and fighting battles." EA has also mentioned the possibility of a Fifa football title that lets you change your team formation or buy new players via your mobile.The possibilities are fascinating and Unangst sees harnessing this functionality in innovative ways as a key aim going forward. "The phone isn't just a passive viewer it can participate, I can touch the display and send data directly to the console – these screens are truly connected. There are more creative minds than mine thinking, 'wow. I have a whole new range of toys to play with!'"
What with the Bafta awards and the launch of the Nintendo 3DS it's been a busy fortnight on the Gamesblog – that's my excuse for not posting a 'Best of' Chatterbox for a while.So, for your reading pleasure, here is a fortnight's worth of gaming jabber, edited by onedaveofmany and St00. Lots to enjoy here, from Blood Bowl (as usual) to lists, fencing, horrible food and boring movies. Yes! Boring movies!Come on in, it is perfectly safe...Monday March 7There was plenty of Bloodbowl chat to start the week, all HenryPootle's fault for actually being pro-active and organising people into leagues and such. As I type, Goody is anxiously glancing at his 2010 NaN Organisation award and wondering if there's a cup-upset in his future.There was also plenty of weekend gaming to recount from resurgent Killzone 3 victories to people sampling the recently re-released Beyond Good and Evil HD, and those enjoying the new Black Ops maps and accompanied double XP. However, as if realising that this is not the place to talk about games (despite what the sub-headline tells us daily) chat soon moved on to football blog, with Liverpool's victory over Man Utd dominating much of the talk, and TV blog with many people enjoying Wonders of the Universe. GrizzlyDeer seemed particularly enamoured:"'In fact, our entire solar system is made up from the droppings of the giant space weasel. Completely invisible to the naked eye, it circles around the universe, searching for jibbler, a strange cheese-like substance of which almost nothing is known. All scientists agree however, that it is most likely very, very tasy.' - An example of something Brian Cox could say and still make me believe it. I love this show."Talk veered back to games with news of Portal 2's PS3 version coming with a free PC version. CountGinula was not afraid to ask: "What is Portal?" R042 provided arguably the most accurate response, "a good first-person puzzle game based on exploiting momentum and moving through two-way portals, set in a darkly comic science-fiction universe with an acerbic computer providing assistance", though that description didn't do much to enamour the Count to the game.Late on, HumofEvil broached the subject of Fencing. Anticipating some typical Chatterbox ridicule, he was instead offered plenty of advice – proof that this place can always surprise you. Hum was especially concerned that taking up the hobby would involve owning a sword, but CrispyCrumb clearly set out the rules: "fencing is a gentleman's pastime. Keeping a sword by your bed is a mentalist's pastime."Cameroon raised the question towards the end of the day about the feasibility of taking on a masters degree alongside his usual job. General concensus was that the workload would be very difficult. Rollmeister advised that, "(in) my personal opinion, a full-time job and full-time masters is probably too much. It may well be doable, but I certainly wouldn't want to try!" Still it is nice to see the good folks of Chatterbox looking to better themselves in ways that don't involve reaching level 80 in WoW.As if to immediately wipe away this pleasant notion though, the blog quickly turned to literal murder-blog as the day ran out.And it was all going so well.Quotes of the day"Nothing grows as fast as a tramp's beard. Not even bamboo. Incidentally, I cut a lot of mine off yesterday. Like, two inches. By mistake."Fantomex compares himself to a homeless person, to no one's surprise."Roger Moore.... now there is a man"SerenVikity again wins the annual gender identification competition."My great Granddad fought in a war so I could sit in my pants on a Monday afternoon and watch Doctors."HereComesTreble enjoys the benefits of winning blogger of the year.Shrove Tuesday March 8Pancake day, "That créped up on us" (PicPicPic), was the opportunity for Chatterboxers to discuss their favourite combinations of accompaniments for the battered goodies. CunningStunt revealed he likes his with cheese and beans, whereas St00 takes it all very seriously:"Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner and pudding. It's 'DAY' for a reason people, ALL day. Lemon and sugar, civilised like. I'm not Amerkin'."HereComesTreble also got in to the spirit of things... sort of: "I had an omelette for breakfast, which, when you think about it, is sort of like a big egg pancake". Marie2490 hates pancakes but if she ever decides to make them then scientists have  revealed an equation for the production of the perfect crepe: 100 - [10L - 7F + C(k - C) + T(m - T)]/(S – E).This formula neatly relates to the horror that is Excel Blog. The least said the soonest mended. Or as StiLted so eloquently put it: "If it was possible to yawn so hard that your face turned inside out, I would be doing so. Where would you be then hey? Sitting there with inside out face on your conscience that's whereShrove Tuesday coincided with International Women's Day. HateMale felt it was appropriate to recognise all the valuable things that men have given women over the years to help balance out the day: "We even gave you dishwashers. Hairdryers. Ponies. The Clap." To which SerenVikity responded: "I forgot about all those things that men did for me. The pony with clap came as a bit of a surprise but rubbing some ointment on Muffin did the trick."As part of International Women's Day blog, IntraVenus revealed that Leona Lewis had been voted the most influential woman of the last century. I demand a recount as surely it's Susan Boyle (well my vote counted for nothing then – 1918 was supposed to make my opinions matter).Games were also mentioned on Tuesday. Although there were discussions on KZ3, Blood Bowl, ME2 and GT5 (CatZilla even managed an indepth discussion about games manufacturers and payment for online multiplayer), it was one game that had 'boxers quivering in anticipation:Dino D-Day. Makar's excitement was palpable: "There is a clip of someone fighting a T Rex with his fists. Brilliant."Quotes of the day"Quoting Gilbert &amp; Sullivan. A new low."Sheep2 to HenryPootle. [Is thatreallya new low? – Keef]"=IF(C40=1,IF(ISBLANK(C4),"",C11/C12),IF(AC40=2,(IF(ISBLANK(C4),"",C11/C12)*0.95),IF(ISBLANK(C4),"",C11/C12)))"Simian. (That's a special request from akaSilky.)Wednesday March 9So we enter the mid-game, the hump, a hill of chat from which the only way is down – something the contributors of chatterbox know more than enough about. The day started with some brief discussion of the Gunners exit from Europe the night before, however with a distinct lack of Arsenal fans around, the mood was of general apathy and of the conclusion that the better team had gone through. Despite UncleBen and Makar's efforts late on to stir up some debate there were few willing to bite.The morning continued with a somewhat undignified discussion – for which we can blame Weecooper – regarding the various romantic opportunities available in the Mass Effect universe. Killerbee did point out that, "your ME1 love interest's picture is on your desk in the Captain's Quarters when you start, but once you start getting friendly with someone else in the second game, the photo frame gets pushed over." Proof that games are edging ever closer to that other artistic and valid medium – soap operas.A mention of David Cameron's appearance on the One Show opened a gateway to politics-blog. There was a fair amount of Tory hate (shocking for the Gruniad, I know)[it's Grauniad! What an ironic type! – Keef]but there was more than enough reserved for the other two parties as well. In fact, the whole discussion remained (reasonably) tame and good natured, once again proving what a freakish anomaly of the internet the Chatterbox can be at times – I mean everyone even forgot to compare each other to Hitler.StiLteD entered the chat mid-morning with some very positive feedback on his newly acquired 3D TV. In addition to being impressed by Killzone 3, he waxed lyrical about Super Stardust HD as well: "The 3D effects on it are truly superb. When your ship blows up, the debris properly blows out of the TV at you. Remarkably well done. A couple of the BIG incoming asteroids had me madly ducking in surprise".However, his effusing didn't seem to do too much to sway the general blog scepticism about the technology – but proved a diverting enough talking point for a while.The afternoon was largely taken up with a variety of smaller topics, none of which lingered long in the mind. The news that the PSN would be down for the night, therefore putting a quash on any online plans, didn't help and the blog sort of limped over the finish line in a wave of chat-static. It may not have been pretty, but we made it.Quotes of the day"Tim - If we lived in a society like that depicted in Minority Report you would've been locked up a long time ago."SirGiggedy says what everyone is thinking."The girl I work with – the one that tried to implicate me in her fraud – said she thought I was her guardian angel yesterday. She said she had a dream about me rescuing her from quicksand. She's quite obviously away with the fairies."SerenVikity continues to make up stories from her imagined sitcom of a job.Thursday March 10Page 1: Bloodbowl. Page 2: Bloodbowl. Page 3: Bloodb...Zzzzzzzzzz..."Whats the most disgusting thing you've ever eaten?" Bertjansch asked before telling of his surprise at opening a, "Pig's face baguette at a motorway cafe near Malaga... oh, hello, heres Porky Pig whiskers and all."Our token Bahrain-based blogger Jaykelly's delicacies of "Tripe soup" and "Fish head curry" both sound pretty tasty, but Chubster takes the prize for me with his Chicken feet – the problem not being the taste, but that: "...spitting out chicken knuckles isn't my idea of a good time." Indeed. I was just amazed and disappointed someone didn't bring up egg and prawn sandwiches.Intra brought up her upcoming girly sleepover; Seren piped up, saying she had never experienced the pleasures of such an event. Naturally, some people's imaginations took it too far... for some bloggers it seems, thoughts of a girly pillow fight is not a Mid-morning Matter.Somewhere, a tiger killed a lion... reminding me of my old job of staging fights to answer the age old questions like: "Which would win in a fight between a bear and a slightly vexed honey badger?"CatnameBlog? Really? Really? I mean, names for your cat? No, it's never going to stoop that low surely...what?...Oh.ElvishBlog? No chance? I mean, talking in elvish? No, it's never going to stoop that low surely...what?...Oh.Decal got shouty, he had a fair point though. AcidSnake was talking about "organising" a game of Bad Company 2 and "Tic-Tacs", and people calmly waiting for everyone to be ready to play and other such witchcraft instead of just charging forwards blindly running into the opposing force. It's always easy to spot a Non-NaNer....Zzzzzzzz....dbowl, Page 14: Bloodbowl, Page 15: Bloodbowl.Quotes of the day"6 pages before half 11? Jesus."My thoughts exactly, PicPicPic"Jellied eel served on toast. Ich nichte lichte."BarryEans. It's Deutsche Johan, but not as we know it.Friday March 11This morning, news of the earthquake and tsunami spread around the world. Thoughts went out to those with family and friends in the area, and to our bloggers on the Pacific Rim.The morning also a post-mortem of last night's NAN clan action. Typical NAN clan tears were shed over the regular NAN versus Eurogamer BFBC2 matches, with the most common complaint being that the opposition had people who knew how to play the game. This seemed to outweigh the other complaint that someone had hacked a console to use a steamroller, or some such nonsense.There was also fallout from the Killzone 3 games too. Seemingly someone on the NAN clan had learned a similar trick of hacking a steamroller into Mawlr Graveyard, giving NAN a 7-0 win on that map. Take a screenshot of that now, we may never see the likes again.In a move away from his cloning of Tony Hayers, HereComesTreble has started an entirely original writing piece for the gamesblog - The Complete Moron's Guide to Blood Bowl. His first tip was to restart diceblog and point out the difference between red and white dice. More of this every day next week, he threatened.And it's not like Cunningstunt doesnt have his uses. Frequently he attends pub quizzes and wows us with his knowledge, or in this case, posing the Friday question - Which Film Has The Best Battle Scene? It's things like this that get the Gamesblog's blood boiling. Is it Zulu? Is it Saving Private Ryan? Is it Bourne Ultimatum? But the Gamesblog trumps all, with SirGiggidy's quip: "Best Battle – Crispycrumb fumbling his first 1 v 1 with BigWorv on Killzone".Of course, that's not all you'll find up Cunnings sleeve – or, if you'll excuse the expression, under his patio. 'The most boring film' was trooped out, and amongst the usual suspects was Lost in Translation[Noooooooo! How can a film with Bill Murray AND scarlett johansson IN Toyko be boring? – Keef], Lord of the Rings, 2001, The Hours, The New World and Eyes Wide Shut (proof that the blog has mostly poor taste – Dave). Although Limni summed it up best with "There are a lot of film idiots around today", I think he meant to include Tom Cruise in that statement too.The blog then turned to holiday advice. BigWorv is heading for Rome, and apart from avoiding the football hooligans, the best advice came from CrispyCrumb, "Rome? Don't attempt a Leap Of Faith." I think the same holds true for Jerusalem.Monday March 14Monday came the void. Wholly cold and unsavoury, like a strange clammy hand that you don't recognise, somewhere uncomfortable. Something was wrong, very wrong. Devoid of their spiritual home, the Gamesblog refuges quickly took up residence in an old abandoned chatterbox and reminisced about times when this was a regular occurrence, hoping to use humour to quieten their unspoken discomfort. Discordant, forced laughs, echoed all too loudly until finally, a box did birth itself mewling on to our collective internet laps.[Look, I've said sorry! – Keef]Clearly mindful of his tardiness Keef tried to steer the conversation towards 5 specific topics, this was never going to happen, but nice try, you poor, deluded man.[Worth a try – Keef]Onedaveofmany believed Keefs motives went slightly deeper: "A valiant effort, but I suspect your ulterior motive is wanting a shot at the 'Most On-Topic' category at next year's awards. Shameless."Much of the early chat revolved around Fanto's assertion that it was, um, 'Steak Day'. This was discussed in some depth, prompting some less liberated box regulars to take a day off from the action. Turns out that even in the chatterbox there are limits! Who knew?The Blood Bowl juggernaut rumbled (Shouldn't that be 'rambled'?) on, gradually engulfing more and more forum inhabitants. When even Limni and HereComesTreble arrive for the day cursing the name of Nuffle, the end cannot be far away.Talk of the nursery league and the new coaches finding their feet filtered in throughout the day, with Rollmeister considering the Cunningstunt approach to Blood Bowl: "What's the biggest cheat team going? What will I get most abuse for?"Blood Bowl agony aunts, Crispycrumb and Henrypootle jumped in during the afternoon, fielding questions relating to team value, dice rolls, inducements and defence.Stilted summed up the confusion of many, as follows:"Blood Bowl chat – impenetrable dice blog crossed with PES blog, with the volume of 'at peak' Demon Souls blog."Rugby popped up late on in the day, with questions on the laws coming from bitter Scots fans. The day wound down with a spot of Timthemonkey baiting from EnglishRed indicating that, finally, all was right with the blog once more:"Let's hope the Saga of Tim never gets written down because Murphy's Law dictates that if civilisation as we know it was ever destroyed then the sole surviving history of these days would be that book. It would screw future history forever – the Aliens would think we were a race of asexual beings obsessed with cartoons about cheaply made toys."Games:Blood Bowl, Two Worlds 2, Mass Effect 2, Killzone 3, BFBC2, Black Ops and Dragon Age 2Films:Scott Pilgrim Vs the WorldTV:Breaking Bad, Wonders of the Universe, Spaced and Bored to DeathBooks:Shadows of the AptTuesday March 15Tuesday AM found favoured Gamesblog journo, Keef in some wondrous fantasy world, full of amazing space creatures, scantily clad woman and a feeling of complete contentment, as well a nagging feeling that he could probably fly. The worries of the world were alleviated and there was an utter absence of any shoes about to drop. A squealing, squeaking noise began in the back of Keef's mind, permeating his consciousness. It began to sound more like an alarm... an alarm?Keef awoke with a start, his heart pounding. Glancing at his Rolex, the realisation that he'd overslept hit him like one of Timthemonkey's chat up lines. Discarding his Chinese silk pyjamas, his valet hurriedly dressed him and passed him his civet coffee. Sprinting from the house grounds, he spoke to his chauffeur. "This is all Greg's fault. I knew I shouldn't have signed off on that leave request."[All very amusing, but if I see any of you clambering over the walls and staring in through my windows again, I'll set my security staff on you – Keef]After he'd regained his composure and managed to right click the 'Post Today's Chatterbox' button, Keef announced plans to start a regular Guardian Games Chatterbox mulitplayer night. This was met with a mix of griping about family life and firm, instant replies to the positive. St00 pointed out that there were benefits to an official, Guardian sanctioned mulitplayer games night: "Official multiplayer night is a great idea as long as it's not a Thursday. It'll give me an excuse to use to my wife, "I have to play, it's Official."Keef's input in the Monday blog seemed to have a lasting financial effect on some, such as SirGiggidyMMVIII:"After yesterdays blog I seem to have ended up with a Sony Experia, pre orders for a 3DS, an Ipad 2 and also the new build for Dwarf Fortress. I hope you're on commission Keef."[Yes, I have already ordered my Pagini Huayra – Keef]The blog went unusually highbrow for a while, discussing band names with an 'adult entertainment' slant to them. Bloggers plumbed the depths of their depraved and twisted minds, with lowlights such as[Oh, for Heaven's sake! – Keef]amongst many of the more stomach twisting 'I needed to look it up on the internet, but my work filtered it' suggestions.EnglishRed was the first to crack: "Porn names? Really? We've all had a drink, time to go home now." Sorry Red, it's not even lunchtime yet.Unusually, gaming was brought up – Blood Bowl and the newly released Shogun: Total War 2 were hot topics. Blood Bowl is becoming a recent favourite[No, really? – Keef]with a few of the newer chatterbox community, but we won't dwell on that because as we all know, 'This isn't the place to discuss games'.Hairy Nipples.Post luncheon, there was some talk about the ongoing Cheltenham Festival and some bloggers were dishing out tips. A note for the future; taking financial or betting advice from the bloggers may be a poor choice indeed, with FerrisSaved managing to pick a single winner with his tips and Scamander who managed nought out of three. I don't think there'll be many bloggers on the millionaire list next year, thanks to gambling winnings.The afternoon was subdued by blog standards. A few more impatient residents asked why Tuesday was taking so long. Existential answers aside, the end would come eventually, but no one seemed to believe it would happen.HereComesTreble popped in late doors to comment on the fashion sense of Yorkshirefolk: "I haven't seen anyone in Leeds today wearing cufflinks. Can you believe that? Not a single person."And that was that.Shortly after, and despite rumours to the contrary, Tuesday did indeed, end.Wednesday March 16Day three of Greg Howson's holiday from Chatterbox duty, and whether by luck or judgement, Mr. Keith Stuart esq. managed to deliver a 'NooBox', just in time for the start of the working day. Things were looking up and floggings could now cease.Perhaps even more surprising was the Gamesblog collectively indulging in gaming related chat, prompted by a recent article's bold claim that Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood was The Best Game Ever.Naturally, any internet statement, airing one person's subjective opinion is best responded to by similarly subjective opinions, as to why the original point of view is patently wrong and moreover, ignorant and offensive. It's also a fine opportunity to indulge in another favourite pastime of the blog: making lists. Accordingly, although there was consensus that 'AssBroHo', as the game is affectionately abbreviated, is indeed a very fine game, it was determined to be FACT that Final Fantasy VII, Diablo II, Civilization 2, Ocarina of Time and ICO, amongst others, are better.Vegetunks9000 argued a strong case in favour of Mass Effect 2 being the best game ever, maintaining, that watching one cut scene alone, made him spill his pink gin: "so good it took two boxes of kleenex to get my chest clean." You have to admit, gaming doesn't get much better than that.Games:Blood Bowl, Mass Effect 2, Dragon Age 2, Killzone 3Thursday March 17St. Patrick's day, apparently. A day generally characterised by the attendance of church services, according to wikipedia; a happy excuse to drink Guinness all day according to St00. The chatterbox decided to celebrate it in a different way, by reminiscing about old TV shows, giving tips about hairstyles, groom speeches and by talking at length about fantasy American football. So the usual then.Nor'n Irish regular, and current Blogger of the Year™ HereComesTreble, wasn't having the best St. Patrick's day, proclaiming that: "If I hear one more bad Irish joke, I'm going home to get drunk on my own."Whether he was actually in a pub at the time of the post, or drinking at work wasn't made clear. He also seemed concerned with the upcoming Ireland versus England Rugby Union match, stating that: "If England win I'll step out in front of a bus."There is nothing like a bit of perspective, and that definitely wasn't it.Other 'boxers gave insight into their own bleak existences. R042 shared the happy news that: "I'm off to the pub tonight following a meal at Nandos with friends, there's always something to look forward to." You can draw your own conclusions from that – either he's an eternal optimist, or that he really hasn't got much going on in his life.On the other hand, Timthemonkey seemed to have escaped a life of grinding poverty in the bleak wastes of the North East, exclaiming how:"They don't have National Geographic mags in Hartlepool, we were lucky to get Shoot! when I were a lad."The Chatterbox's resident Methuselah, HenryPootle, was on hand to put that comment into stark contrast, however, boasting how the night before: "I didn't actually play any games. I did make a potato and leek souffle though. It was a roaring success"Throw some R042's way Mr. Pootle, he needs something to cheer him up.The rest of the day was taken up with two of the Chatterboxers' favourite topics, old TV shows and Blood Bowl. The day deteriorated into chat about Goblins scoring touchdowns interspersed by reminiscences of Harold Bishop, this included a poignant post from SerenVikity:"Remember when Harold disappeared.... leaving only his big, plastic spectacles floating in a rock pool? I think I cried."Saint Patrick would have been so proud.Quotes of the day"Sitting in a pub on St. Patrick's Day, ignoring people, posting on an games forum. I pray to God that this is the low point"HereComesTreble takes stock of where his life is going."Remember when Joe Mangle's wife Kerry was shot by a hunter who mistook her for a duck? It's a different world"JohnnyCarnage mistaking Neighbours for a documentary about antipodean life."Ben, unbelievably has got even dirtier"Goody84 talking about PES2011 again. I hopeAnd so, like a glue factory reject we hobble lamely on to to Friday, surely the greatest of the weekdays, hopeful of a weekend lasting longer than that last drunken black out and more memorable than this week's prose.Friday March 17Friday's chat started with eloquent words of sage advice for Keef, from AlexP, regarding this week's late starts:"Come on, man up."Luckily, this late appearance didn't confuse too many bloggers and normal service was resumed before anybody wrote a strongly worded letter to their MP, or set fire to something.The previous night's gaming was, as usual, discussed in some detail. Mainly, this consisted of Killzone 3, which seems like it may be a staple of NaN Thursdays for a while yet, along with the usual suspects of PES, Blood Bowl and BFBC2.Throughout the day, many new and upcoming releases were mentioned. Homefront was released on Friday with some picking this up and some undecided. Idoru managed to sneak in a quick blast on the subject and posted his initial thoughts for all to see. His informed 'insider' verdict?"Obviously too early to say"Crysis 2 also seems to be nibbling away at many a blogger's resolve. There were also some local folks looking further into the future, towards Gears of War 3. Those with a penchant for overly massive space marines running around a world full of chest-high walls, got very excited by this prospect. Some were also talking of picking up Topspin 4, and this served to prompt some ace tennis nostalgia from the big-hitting blog old guard, BigWorv and TonyHayers.The afternoon saw a quite irregular and wholly unexpected return to listblog, after an offhand comment from Treble opened the floodgates:"I actually think list blog is one of the better blogs."Whether this was welcome or not, many took the opportunity to post lists with remarkable fervour. Gangster films, space films, cheeses, westerns, favourite lists. Faced with the listblog shotgun pointed squarely at them, people started talking, seemingly unable to stop themselves. My personal favourite was StiLteD's cheese list:"Dutch Smoked x 9 Boursin"Friday finished with some idle banter on a variety of subjects: Tim's job, work hours and the blog's favourite adult film performer. "She seems like quite a sweet girl," said RustyJames.The tail end of Friday read very much like people winding down for the weekend, or rather asleep at their keyboards. Words came difficultly, it seemed.And so the week drew to a close with the shadow of Monday's stark reminder, of the impermanence of our internet ramblings, seemingly forgotten. Everyone departed to do whatever it is they do with their weekends, safe in the knowledge that they'd all be back hooting into the abyss come Monday morning. That is of course if there's a working alarm clock, where it's needed most....If you don't get what you want, you suffer; if you get what you don't want, you suffer; even when you get exactly what you want, you still suffer because you can't hold on to it forever. Your mind is your predicament. It wants to be free of change, free of pain, free of the obligations of life and death. But change is a law, and no amount of pretending will alter that reality.End gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – 'Shape of things' by the Yardbirds.Check theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This double 'Best of' was edited by St00 and onedaveofmany. It was written by onedaveofmany, SerenVikity, Smellavision, TJVS, Simian, Bobbobbob, Killerbee, EnglishRed and SandySleaze."Life must be understood backward. But it must be lived forward."Soren Kierkegaard
Index Ventures has opened an office at Scrutton Street in London's Shoreditch, which means as well as having a corporate office in the appropriately minted Mayfair, Saul Klein and team can "embed" themselves in the startup scene.Index Ventures' partner Saul Klein. Photo byJoion Flickr.Some rights reservedIndex will be moving in withMoo,Soundcloud,Tweetdeck,Groupspaces,LightboxandSparkPR. Klein said in ablogpost: "Our intention is to do something that gets us even closer to the teams we work with, hold open office hours to meet some of the new companies we don't, and generally embed ourselves in what is one of the hottest startup zones in Europe."Index also opened aSan Francisco officein January. As Mike Butcher pointed out onTechCrunch EU, Index isn't the first VC to do this. Angel-backed work space White Bear Yard opened in Clerkenwell in July 2009 and Seedcamp – once rather unfairly described to me as "UK tech's Pop Idol for startups" – is also rumoured to be moving east.
Hyundai has become the latest car manufacturer to launch its own iPhone game, following in the wheel-tracks of Volkswagen, Audi and BMW.Hyundai Boot Shoot was released this week on the App Store, published by the company's UK arm.Apps Blog took the opportunity to ask managing director Tony Whitehorn what the company is looking for from apps, and why it chose to launch a game – albeit one that involves flicking footballs into cars – rather than a more obviously motoring-themed application."Apps help build relationships with individuals, which is why they are becoming so important to businesses," he says. "But we wanted to make something more entertaining, rather than something that's just for information. People are really getting into the games side of things, too – 51% of iPhone users have five or more games on their iPhone, and 37% of them play a game every day."The company has clearly been doing its research – the numbers come froma Compete survey published last July. Boot Shoot is also an attempt to tie an app into Hyundai's existing football activities, as it was one of the official sponsors of last year's World Cup."It's not just a one-off where people will say 'Why on earth are they doing football?'" he says. "We have resonance in that area. If a brand tries to launch a game that has no affiliation with anything else they do, people won't fully understand it."Not just a one-off? That hints at more apps to come in the future, although Whitehorn says that Hyundai is waiting to see how Boot Shoot performs. Volkswagen may be the model to follow: its iPhone advergames for its Polo and Touareg both raced past 1m downloads in a matter of days after their releases in 2009 and 2010 respectively."We do see apps absolutely exploding, so we're going to see how it goes," he says. "People play these entertainment games on their smartphones for hours, so if you can have your brand in the background or being part of that experience, it's fantastic."
News Corporation has held talks about giving up control of Myspace to Vevo, the music video site owned by several of the world's biggest music labels.After kicking off a strategic review looking to sell or spin off the declining social networking website last month, News Corp initially approached Vevo about acquiring Myspace,according to US media reports.This offer was reportedly rebuffed, with talks now focusing on exchanging Myspace for a stake in a new venturewith Vevo, which is owned by Universal Music, Sony Music and Abu Dhabi Media Company.Sony and Universal are also investors in Myspace Music, the part of Myspace that streams songs online. One report said the chances of a new joint venture deal with News Corp were "very slim".A spokeswoman for News Corporation declined to comment. Vevo was unavailable for comment at the time of publication.News Corp hired investment bank Allen &amp; Co to evaluate strategic options and offers for Myspace, with the aim of tieing up a deal before the end of the company's financial year in June. Vevo was one of as many as 20 parties taking a look at the social networking website.In theory News Corp is looking at all possibilities, but insiders say that the company is gearing up for a sale or spin off that could come through a demerger. Myspace was acquired by News Corp for $580m (£363m), and News is not confident that it can achieve a higher valuation than that at the point of disposal – although the company is trying to achieve a price tag of more than $100m.Vevo, which is gearing up for a launch in the UK – most likely next month, after plans to launch in March were pushed back – launched in the US in December 2009.Earlier this month there were reports that News Corp had held talks with fast-growing social gaming company Zynga about a stock-based deal. But Zynga is understood to be concerned about News Corp's valuation.As the rise of Facebook has continued unabated, Myspace has suffered from a loss of users and, as a result, advertisers and in Januaryconfirmed that it was to cut almost half its staff.
Amazon has unveiled its ambitious music streaming service, Cloud Player, which allows users to play songs across a number of computers and Android smartphones.Music lovers will be able to upload most of their existing music library – including tracks bought through Apple's iTunes – to Amazon, as well as buy new songs for digital playback.The online retailer has stolen a march on rivals Apple and Google with the service, known as Amazon Cloud Player, with both internet giants planning their own forays into music streaming. The move also represents Amazon's repositioning as an entertainment destination, rather than just an online marketplace.Another element of the service, Amazon Cloud Drive, works like a "digital music locker" where users can upload thousands of songs and listen to them via Cloud Player on any computer or Android smartphone."Our customers have told us they don't want to download music to their work computers or phones because they find it hard to move music around to different devices," said the Amazon vice-president of music and movies, Bill Carr. "Now, whether at work, home, or on the go, customers can buy music from Amazon MP3, store it in the cloud and play it anywhere."As an introductory offer, Cloud Player is free to Amazon account holders, although users can pay to increase the amount of music able to be stored on Cloud Drive. Customers start with 5GB of storage space – equivalent to just over 1,000 songs – and those who buy an MP3 album from the Amazon store will be upgraded to the larger 20GB service.Apple and Google are said to be planning similar ventures, while Sony's Music Unlimited also offers a digital music locker, but charges upwards of £4 a month. Agreements with all four major record labels are thought to be the sticking point for Apple's and Google's streaming services, with rights owners apparently unhappy with the idea of a one-off payment each time a track is played on any device.Beyond Oblivion, an online music site partly owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, is proposing to woo rights holders by paying them a royalty each time their music is played. The service, which secured $77m (£47m) on investment earlier this month, is yet to launch and negotiations with music labels said to be at a "very advanced stage".Amazon said it has sidestepped legal uncertainties about allowing users to upload music from their computer – some of which may have been downloaded illegally – by being the equivalent of any other storage device, such as an external hard drive.The Amazon director of music, Craig Pape, said: "We don't need a licence to store music. The functionality is the same as an external hard drive."• Amazon's online retail rival eBay yesterday stepped up its attempt to become the primary destination for internet shopping by buying GSI Commerce, an online services firm, for $2.4bn. The acquisition will allow eBay to expand beyond its network of small retailers into the larger retail market.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHacking Twitter's Javascript &gt;&gt; jazzychad's blog"New Twitter uses a massive amount of javascript (for a webapp). Nearly 1 Megabyte of minified, obfuscated javascript powers the site's frontend. "For some unknown reason (maybe I couldn't sleep), I decided to read all of it." And found some bugs and workarounds.Intel doubles capacity, drops price in refresh of popular SSD line &gt;&gt; Computerworld"The new 2.5-in. Intel Solid-State Drive 320 Series offers models that more than triple capacity over the X25-M and reduces prices by up to 30%, or $100, on some models. While aimed at the laptop and desktop market, the consumer SSD has also been Intel's most popular model for servers in data centers." Yup, they're coming to your laptop, and then your desktop. Just wait.It Wasn't Just Verizon – The HTC Incredible S' Bootloader And Recovery Are Signed As Well &gt;&gt; Android Police"Conspiracy theorists would have you believe that the ThunderBolt's signed (and locked) bootloader was all Verizon's doing, but it appears that isn't quite the case – the Incredible S, one of HTC's unlocked GSM phones, is shipping with a similar failsafe system. That basically means no custom ROMs for you (at least until a viable workaround is discovered)." Unexplained: why it would be a bad thing to have your recovery bootloader using a signed key.Why we should support users with no Javascript &gt;&gt; Punkchip"A recent number crunch of the logs at Yahoo, produced a number of stats that prove non-Javascript users still exist. How many users have JavaScript disabled? The answer is an average of 1.3% (a high of 2.06% in US and a low of 0.26% in Brazil)." Sounds like nothing much, but for any large site it turns into thousand and thousands of users.Predicting iPhone sales for dummies &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu, who used to work as an internal competitive analyst for Nokia, gives you the numbers as he sees them for the iPhone 4. His estimate: this model will sell a total of 60-65m in its (15-month) time on sale. Scary. The graphs accompanying the piece are gobsmacking too.Countdown to MIX11: Joe Belfiore Talks Phone &gt;&gt; Microsoft Channel 9Joe Belfiore, in charge of Windows Phone, says sorry for calling updates to Windows Phone 7 "complete" and acknowledges user frustration. WP7 users, are you updated yet?The editorial search engine &gt;&gt; Jonathan Stray"Meanwhile, for several years Google's public language has been slowly shifting from 'our search results are objective' to 'our search results represent our opinion.' The transition seems to have been completed a few weeks ago, when Matt Cutts spoke to Wired about Googleâ€™s new page ranking algorithm. He said: "In some sense when people come to Google, that's exactly what they're asking for – our editorial judgment. They're expressed via algorithms. When someone comes to Google, the only way to be neutral is either to randomize the links or to do it alphabetically." "There it is, from the mouth of the bot. 'Our editorial judgment' is 'expressed via algorithms.' Google is saying that they have and employ editorial judgement, and that they write algorithms to embody it. "Barnes &amp; Noble already takes delivery of 3 million Nook Color e-book readers, say sources &gt;&gt;Digitimes"Barnes &amp; Noble has taken delivery of close to 3m Nook Color e-book readers from its production partner, according to an estimate by sources from the Nook Color supply chain. "With a clear differentiation to Apple's iPads in display size, targeted market and pricing, the Nook Color, priced at US$249, has actually taken up over 50% of the iPad-like market in the North America market, indicated the sources. "Sales of the Nook Color topped 1m units in the North America in the fourth quarter of 2010 and reached 600,000-700,000 units a month during the January-February period of 2011, the sources noted." We're not sure what the "iPad-like" market is exactly, as the Nook is an e-reader. (Note: page will expire to non-subscribers within a day or two.)15 more sites that forbid you from linking to them &gt;&gt; Malcolm ColesJust baffling. This from theNational Union of Students: 'You will not create and publish a hypertext link to any part of the Website' Er, actually, we will.Update 30/03:NUS has updated its Ts &amp; Cs to "You will not attempt any unauthorised access to any part or component of the website or create and publish a hypertext link to these unauthorised components." So there.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Tuesday. What's happening in your gaming world?
Plans to send thousands of warning letters to alleged illegal downloaders have been delayed until next year as the government's embattled Digital Economy Act is held up by a high court judicial review.Internet users across the UK were due to start receiving warning letters from their broadband provider later this year, buta legal challengeby BT and TalkTalk has significantly derailed the plans.Under the government's controversial anti-filesharing scheme, internet service providers send notification letters to customers accused of illegal downloading by music and film companies. Repeat copyright infringers could have their internet access slowed or even blocked under secondary measures in the act.Plans which govern the way rights owners accuse internet users were due to be published on Thursday, 31 March, but have now been delayed indefinitely by the judicial review. The already-delayed act was due to come into force in January, but now looks set to be held up until next summer at the earliest.A spokesman for the Department for Culture, Media and Sport said that "no precise date" had been set for publication of the plans, known as the Initial Obligations Code. "We continue to work with Ofcom, and the code will be published as soon as possible," he added."We are working to implement the system as soon as possible. Our principal concern is to establish a system that works and provides the UK's creative industries with the tools they need to protect their hard work and investment. We will not rush this important task."The future of the act, which was forced through parliament in the dying days of the Labour government in April last year, now rests in the hands of a high court judge.BT and TalkTalk concluded their challenge to the proposals on Monday, arguing that the act infringes internet users' "basic rights and freedoms" and receivedinsufficient parliamentary scrutiny.The judge is expected to return a verdict in six to eight weeks. However, that judgment is likely to face an appeal from whichever side loses, further delaying its implementation.The judge could also recommend that the decision be referred to the European Court of Justice, Europe's highest legal authority. In that case the act's implementation could be even further delayed.Meanwhile, the communications minister, Ed Vaizey, is attempting to get ISPs to introduce new measures to appease the creative industries, which argue that they have been plagued by internet piracy for too long.Among the plans, ISPs such as BT and Virgin Media are planning to launcha music-subscription servicein an attempt to wean customers off illegal downloading.Rights holders have alsodrawn up a listof around 100 illegal downloading sites, like the Pirate Bay and Newzbin2, that they want ISPs to block.
Apple's iPad 2 is already in short supply across the UK just days after going on sale.Demand for Apple's second-generation tablet computer was always expected to outstrip supply, but few people expected reserves to run dry after one weekend.Apple stores in London, where queues for the iPad 2surpassedthose for last year's launch, have urged customers to reserve a device online to avoid disappointment.Argos, the largest non-Apple store to sell the device, confirmed to the Guardian that its 750 outlets in the UK and Ireland have run out of stock. Argos doesn't expect to receive further supplies until 25 April."Demand for the next generation iPad 2 has been amazing. We are working hard to get iPad 2 into the hands of every customer who wants one as quickly as possible," Apple said in a statement.Despite requesting larger quantities, non-Apple retailers including T-Mobile and Vodafone were allocated only around 20,000 devices, meaning supplies were always going to be short. In the US, between 500,000 and 1m iPad 2s were sold in the first weekend when it went on sale a fortnight ago.T-Mobile and Orange are selling the 16GB Wi-Fi and 3G modelfor £199with a 24-month contract for existing customers, or £229 and 24-month contract to new customers.Vodafone hassimilar pricing plans, though it is offering all of the storage sizes – 16GB, 32GB and 64GB – in the 3G range, for prices varying from £199 to £349 for existing customers, and £24.50 per month. New customers will have to pay slightly more.Thousands of shoppers arethought to have queuedoutside Apple stores in the UK when the iPad 2 went on sale on Friday.
Newcastle-based developer Never Odd or Even is preparing for the release ofAppysnap, its new "photosocial" game for iPhone that aims to wrap game mechanics around people's mobile photos – but in a way that appeals far beyond early adopters.The app, which has been submitted to Apple for approval, sets challenges for its users to take and upload photographs with specific themes – such as snapping a place, item or theme. If they complete these missions successfully within a set time period, they can win points and/or physical prizes. Foursquare-style badges are also included, although here they're known as caps."The two white-hot spaces in apps are photos and gamification, and we think we've created an app that brings them both together," says co-founder Paul Smith. "We wanted to try to turn sharing photos socially into a game, but one with potential mainstream appeal. Something my wife would use."The big question about something such as Appysnap is moderation: first, how does Never Odd or Even decide if photos have met the criteria for "success" in its missions, and second, how does it deal with photos that might be considered inappropriate?"Cock shots?" replies Smith cheerily. "That's what we're calling them, although they may or may not be pictures of cocks. We looked at photo recognition technologies, but they're not practical for a startup that's bootstrapping. Also, they're not much help if the mission is to take a photo of a coffee shop, and someone uploads a shot of a hairdresser's."Smith says the developer has focused instead on creating a back-end that lets its staff whisk through submissions quickly and eliminate those that fail the criteria for a mission. It's something that works for now, but may need to be reassessed if Appysnap takes off.At launch, Appysnap players will be able to post their photos on Twitter and Facebook from within the app, but future updates will bring more social features, such as using Facebook Connect to enable players to challenge friends to games.The business model? Never Odd or Even is looking at sponsorship and advertising around missions and caps, especially if the app is able to drive footfall into retailers and other specific real-world venues. In that sense, it will be competing with some big guns, including Facebook and Foursquare, as well as upcoming social location apps such as SCVNGR."We could drop a mission into the middle of a gig, so if people are seeing, say, Primal Scream at Brixton Academy, the mission would be to take a photo of yourself and other fans at the gig, with a meet 'n' greet with the band afterwards being the prize," says Smith.The latter is one of the closer applications to Appysnap in its intended form, with challenges that can include photo elements. However, there is also a direct rival calledHopskoch, which launched on Apple's App Store earlier in March, with a similar idea of setting players missions to take specific photos, with a points system wrapped around it.Smith says there is room for both. "They're very much focused on creating a platform that runs across all mobiles, with this photo element seeming to be a very small part of it" he says. "Besides, with Foursquare and Gowalla [in the social location space] the fact that there were two players helped to create that genre and the activity around it. The same could happen here."At launch, Appysnap will be iPhone-only, but Smith says Android is next on the agenda. The key will be getting the viral effect so that people start playing the game and encouraging their friends to join in –something we criticisedhotly tipped US app Color for when it launched recently.
BT has kindly agreed to help out its chums in the creative industries with anot-for-profit music download servicedesigned to wean its customers off illegal filesharing.The move is yet another sign that Ed Vaizey, the communications minister, has been banging heads together at his high-powered meetings between rights holders and internet service providers.According to a leaked Invitation to Tender document, BT's music download service would be available to its 5.5 million broadband users across the UK. BT says it will unveil the product "in the near future", while talks are thought to be ongoing with major music labels such as Universal Music and EMI.Although BT has promised to forgo a profit on the service for the first six to nine months – meaning it will be free to access for its customers – the ISP will introduce charging after that time.Exactly what that subscription model will look like is currently subject to much hair pulling, though a few lessons can be learned from past and present digital music hits and misses.The move brings to mind BSkyB's ill-fated foray into music withSky Songs, which wasput out of its miseryin December after about a year. Loved by music execs but loathed by the fans, BT would do well to steer clear of a purely subscription-based offering.That would leave BT Beats – for that's what we shall christen it for the time being – using a freemium model, as pioneered by the Anglo-Swedish streaming service Spotify. With1 million paying customers in Europe– representing a significant 15% of its almost 6 million music fans – Spotify is the king of new music models.Why Spotify has not been sat alongside Universal, Sony, EMI and Warner at Vaizey's roundtables is anyone's guess. But that doesn't mean that Daniel Ek's music service hasn't been flirting with ISPs even further behind the scenes.From what we understand, Spotify has been in talks with major ISPs,not just Virgin Media, about potential partnerships. If ISPs were to go where Sky has failed, they would presumably prefer to partner with the$1bn-valuedstart-up, whose loyal customer base continues to grow, than to go head to head with a rival service. We all knowwhat happenswhen you do that.While Vaizey's behind the scenes tenacity may be winning a fig leaf or two for the music industry, BT and TalkTalk continue to fight the very same rights holders in the high court.Monday is expected to be the final day of the Digital Economy Act's judicial review, though no verdict is expected for another five to six weeks.
It seems that barely a month goes by without a new Lego game being released. Harry Potter, Pirates of the Caribbean, Batman – the list of Lego-ised franchises is endless. Star Wars has always been the pick of the bunch, though. The original Lego Star Wars nailed so much of what makes the games hugely popular today – humour, collectables and accessibly rewarding action.The latest edition is based on the successful Clone Wars animated TV series, and while it lacks the cross-generational appeal of Luke Skywalker, Princess Leia and co – although some classic characters can be unlocked while playing – the game adds enough to the formula to be worth a look.For a start, there is so much more going on. From the off you are flung into screen-filling battles that capture the epic nature of the series. Enemies swarm around your Jedi heroes while you leap and slash with a lightsaber. It's all relatively illusionary, of course. Most of the enemies remain cannon fodder, simply there to help you rack up your collection of Lego studs and points. But it's a welcome upgrade on the relatively small-scale combat seen previously.The other big change is the introduction of strategy elements. Like a primary school version of Command &amp; Conquer, the action occasionally switches you to a battlefield that sees you capturing bases and spending cash on upgrades. Hardcore RTS fans will barely look up from their mice but this is a welcome diversion from the standard jumping/cutesy combat formula.A note of warning though – younger children, so easily pleased by older Lego games, may struggle with some these new elements. Older gamers too may find the occasional lack of signposting frustrating too.Perhaps the most impressive improvement is in the visuals, especially on the Xbox and PS3. The lighting effects in particular really add to the atmosphere.As in previous Lego games, the action really comes alive when in multiplayer. The two player co-operative action is more engaging than ever here, primarily because of the more epic nature of the action. Space battles in particular work well and capture the rollercoaster feel of the series and movies.It may not banish Lego-fatigue from hardcore gamers, but Lego Star Wars III adds enough polish and variety to make it appealing to budding Jedi of all ages.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
"Build it and they will come." It's a well-known saying from Field of Dreams (and technically a misquote) but it's no longer enough to build an API and expect developers to flock towards it.At BlueVia we recognise that competition in the various app stores for top 10 placements is almost matched by the volume of service providers and operators who hope developers will integrate their APIs to enable thenext wave of 'smart apps'.In BlueVia, we have launched a series of APIs that developers can use to monetise their apps via zero-risk, revenue-share business models. It wasn't a walk in the park, and we have much to do, but launching an API is the easy part. Our challenge now is to build bridges for developers, and break down the barriers of effort needed to integrate BlueVia APIs into their products across multiple platforms.Today we've launched a major initiative to address just this: our partnership with Microsoft to provide theBlueVia SDK for .Netwhich puts revenue-generating APIs within close reach of the 6 million Microsoft developers using technologies like Silverlight, Windows Phone 7, Xbox and the Azure cloud services platform.One of the first apps to use the BlueVia SDK for .Net is Taxistop from Medianet, which means non-smartphone devices can benefit from its taxi-finder application. "Developers have been waiting for an opportunity to integrate network operator services within our apps in a robust and seamless way for over a decade," says Gideon Clifton, CEO of Medianet."Third party solutions have never delivered due to the historic lack of understanding by operators of the developer opportunity," Clifton adds. "Telefonica and Microsoft have corrected this and we are excited to integrate their tools to deliver ourTaxistop applicationto millions of feature phone passengers."In theMobile Developer Economics report (pdf)published last year by Vision Mobile (sponsored by Telefonica Developer Communities), respondents reported a lack of support from operators - almost 70% said they felt there was little or no developer support from network operators.There's also a fragmentation of platforms, so developers need access to APIs and revenue models that work across many different environments and don't need to be totally re-engineered to open up additional customers.What we think is necessary, and what we're doing at BlueVia, is not just to build the APIs that developers need, but to also work hard removing barriers to reduce the effort needed to generate revenue from your ideas.
An Iranian hacker has claimed he acted alone in stealing digital security certificates used for online transactions by some of the web's largest sites, including Google, Microsoft, Skype and Yahoo.He said the act had been a form of retribution for the joint authorship by the US and Israel of the Stuxnet worm, which was allegedly designed by government-sponsored teams to target Iran's nuclear reprocessing facilities.The claim follows suspicions last week that the hack was sponsored by the Iranian government and was an attempt to destabilise online transactions and erode trust in online security. The "SSL" certificates are used to confirm the identity of a site to the user – typically by displaying a padlock icon in the browser bar (on addresses beginning with https:).The hacker posted detailed information, including names, accounts and passwords, about how he broke into the systems of InstantSSL.it, an Italian company that resold certificates supplied by a US-based company called Comodo.He also insisted,in a posting on Pastebin.com– a code-sharing site which is frequently used by hackers and the Anonymous group to send messages to the world – that "we have no relation to Iranian Cyber Army ... we just hack and own ... I'm a single hacker with [the] experience of 1,000 hackers."He said he began by trying to hack the SSL protocol and then discovered a weakness in InstantSSL.it, and exploited it.Mikko Hypponen, a security expert at F-Secure,said the hacker's postings on Pastebin"look convincing" but added "whether they were posted by a 21-year-old lone gunman or the Iranian government PR department, I don't know".Comodo had acknowledged the attack on 23 March, and said that eight days earlier an unknown hacker or hackers had acquired nine fake certificates for logon sites for Hotmail, Gmail, the internet phone service Skype and for Yahoo Mail. The hack also acquired a certificate for the add-on site for Mozilla's Firefox browser.Acquiring those certificates would mean the hacker could set up other fake websites and would be able to persuade a browser they were in fact one of those sites, which could be disastrous for the security of those using them.Microsoftconfirmed the theft last Wednesday.Comodo's chief executive, Melih Abdulhayoglu, said last week that "circumstantial evidence" pointed to a state-backed attack by Iranian hackers: "We believe these are politically motivated, state-driven/funded attacks," he said. He suggested that the Iranian government planned to create fake sites that would fool activists inside the country into thinking they were on a secure site which could not be tapped, but instead would collect their details.The hacker denies this emphatically, insisting his actions were to point up what he called duplicitous behaviour by companies such as Microsoft in allowing the security holes exploited by Stuxnet to remain open for so long, to the advantage of the US and Israeli governments:"Anyone inside Iran with problems, from fake green movement to all MKO members and two-faced terrorists, should afraid of me personally. I won't let anyone inside Iran harm people of Iran, harm my country's Nuclear Scientists, harm my Leader (which nobody can), harm my President, as I live, you won't be able to do so. as I live, you don't have privacy in internet, you don't have security in digital world, just wait and see ... By the way, you already have seen it or you are blind, is there any larger target than a CA [Certificate Authority] in internet?"Hypponen pointed out that it was odd for a lone hacker apparently acting at random to have created fake certificates for nine principal sites or systems used for communication – hinting that it would be very convenient for the Iranian government to have those faked certificates available if it wanted to monitor dissidents inside its borders.
Facebook is in talks to hire Robert Gibbs, US president Barack Obama's former press secretary, to manage the social network's communications department,according to the New York Times.Gibbs, whoquit his White House post in Februaryafter two years as one of Obama's closest confidants, will help guide Facebook through a planned flotation in 2012, the paper reported on Sunday night.The talks are at an early stage and no formal offer has been made, sources familiar with the discussions told the New York Times. However, Facebook is said to be pressing Gibbs to make a quick decision.Facebook and Gibbs declined to comment.Gibbs left the Obama administration as part of a widespread reshuffle to prepare for the final two years of the presidential term. However, the experienced Democrat spokesman is said to have remained inside Obama's inner circle despite having no formal post in the White House.According to the New York Times, Gibbs had been planning to help Obama campaign for a second term in office before taking a lucrative private sector job. Gibbs would receive a cash salary as well as shares in Facebook potentially worth millions of dollars if he were to take the role, people briefed on the talks said.Mark Zuckerberg has stepped up Facebook's lobbying in Washington ahead of a plan to go public early next year. As Facebook has grown, so has its dealing with policy makers including the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of the National Intelligence and the Defense Intelligence Agency.The 600 million-strong social network was valued at $50bn (£31bn) in January, when Goldman Sachs led a funding round, but is now being talked about as worth up to $75bn by investors eager to get a piece of the fast-growing site.
A quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamiPad 2: Out of stock by Saturday &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech"Reports are still drifting in, but it seems likely that most of the 25 countries where Apple (AAPL) launched the iPad 2 on Friday had run out of product by Saturday afternoon."iPad 2 Users Report FaceTime Issue &gt;&gt; Huffington Post"Several customers on the Apple forums have been reporting that the FaceTime application, which supports video chat via the iPad's front-facing camera, has been freezing while in use."Newzbin2 Uses TOR To Kill Domain Blocking Before It Even Happens &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakSomeone, somewhere in the Thamesside bowels of communications regulator Ofcom, there is a harassed researcher trying hurriedly to see whether Tor can be combated. They may wish to consult the Egyptian government.Color Keeps Digging &gt;&gt; Daring Fireball Linked List"So it's a data mining trojan horse. Well, that changes everything. Who wouldn't love that?" I think John Gruber just set fire to the $14m that venture capitalists gave Color. Um.Apple Wins U.S. Trade Ruling in Patent Fight Brought by Nokia Over Phones &gt;&gt; BloombergHugely important for Apple. "Nokia had claimed Apple was infringing patents that the Finnish company described as 'pioneering innovations' related to cameras, battery life, touch-screens, speakers and messaging. It sought an order barring imports of the iPhone. "The two mobile-phone makers have been embroiled in litigation since October 2009, when Nokia filed a lawsuit accusing Apple of infringing 10 patents and demanding royalties on the millions of iPhones sold since the device's introduction in 2007. Each company has since accused the other of infringing an increasing number of patents." Apple's lawsuit against Nokia is still outstanding, but this is a key win for the US company: it means it doesn't have to pay a slice of each sale to Nokia. Disadvantage Finland.Is Samsung's New Galaxy Tab Fibbing About Its Figure? And About Those Galaxy Tab Fans"Me, I was confused about a different aspect of Samsung's event (which you can watch here). Much of it was devoted to video clips from the 'Samsung Galaxy Tab Interview Project,' which the opening titles said took place on March 3rd in New York, and which was shown to involve inviting busy, successful New Yorkers to try the Galaxy Tab of their choice and share their opinions. The New Yorkers in question were identified as freelance travel writer Joan Hess, independent filmmaker Karl Shefelman, and leading real estate CEO Joseph Kolinksi." McCracken then commits an act of journalism and discovers that they are in fact actors. We're starting to get a bad feeling about Samsung's Galaxy Tab.Acer warns first quarter sales to fall short &gt;&gt; Financial Times"Acer, the Taiwanese PC maker, on Friday warned sales in the first quarter would fall short of expectations, highlighting the continued weakness in demand in Europe and the US and the growing popularity of new mobile devices like tablets. "With just a week to go before the end of the quarter, the company said its PC revenues were 10% less than in the fourth quarter, during which Acer had already suffered an 11% year-on-year fall in revenues." Don't worry - tablets are a fad. But: "Acer is likely not alone in having a disappointing first quarter. February revenue numbers from the top contract PC manufacturers in Taiwan, who account for 90% of global production, were all down roughly a fifth from January. Even Hon Hai, which makes Apple products and desktops for Dell, saw an 18% decline."Introducing Spanner: From Documents to Linked Data Apps – Clark &amp; Parsia: Thinking Clearly"TLDR? Spanner is a new product that automagically turns documents (of any kind) into a full-featured semantic web – or, if you prefer, 'Linked Data' – application that is easily customized or extended via JavaScript." There must be black magic or the sacrifice of goats involved here.The iPad is 99% more open than any other computer &gt;&gt; JP TetiThe blog tagline: "A 14 year old web designer &amp; developer's blog." A 14-year-old who is better at enunciating an argument (even if you disagree with it) than 99% of those we've seen discussing computing. In fact, we may have to do some age verification on this.F**K CAPTCHA &gt;&gt; 90 Per CentYou want to stop spam, you need a captcha, right? No. Elegant explanation of why the spam problem shouldn't be foisted on users, and can be overcome without the use of captchas.Acer locates 'missing' tablet strategy &gt;&gt; The Register"The W500 will be available in Wi-Fi and Wi-Fi + 3G versions, and will be sold either separately or with a docking keyboard. It's this keyboard that rather captures the imagination as the W500 looks every inch a netbook when attached to it. However, it doesn't close up in the way you would expect: the tablet needs to be removed, and the hinged docking latch and interface folded away. Then the keyboard can function as a protective lid, held in place with a combination of a latch and magnetism. "Clumsy and inelegant? Yes, and heavy too." Hang on - a latch *and* magnets? How tightly do they need the lid shut?Steal This E-Book &gt;&gt; Forbes.com"Jon Bruner: On all your titles you've dropped digital-rights management (DRM), which limits file sharing and copying. Aren't you worried about piracy? "Tim O'Reilly: No. And so what? Let's say my goal is to sell 10,000 copies of something. And let's say that if by putting DRM in it I sell 10,000 copies and I make my money, and if by having no DRM 100,000 copies go into circulation and I still sell 10,000 copies. Which of those is the better outcome?" True - though what if you only sell 100, and there are 100,000 out there? Does the author or the publisher bear the brunt?What is this mystery icon? &gt;&gt; Nelson's WeblogInteresting: the younger the idea on which a piece of iconography is based, the more quickly it becomes outdated.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Monday! Grab a coffee, cancel that meeting and tell everyone what you've been up to over the weeked!
They've done it – or so they claim. The people at Tiga, the UK video games lobbying body that hassince October 2008been pushing successive governments to give tax breaks to their industry, did a victory dance when George Osborne sat down on Wednesday. That's the obvious conclusion from their celebratory email afterwards saying "Tiga delivers improved R&amp;D tax credits in the budget", which was a "decisive victory for the UK video games industry".Hurrah! Tiga has finally beaten the boss stage of the Evil Chancellor, which had previously beaten it back time and again – notably last year when it looked like Alistair Darling was going to announce tax breaks, and then reneged. And because it was a change of government, they couldn't even use the save point they'd got to. It was right back to the start.But now they've won! Well, sort of. Except that in the messages flying out ahead of the budget, Tiga had been saying how they were calling for better R&amp;D breaks – but also tax breaks specifically for the games industry (to help it compete with Canada in particular, but also the US, Korea, Scandinavia and Singapore), measures to support prototype funding, changes to venture capital trusts and the enterprise investment scheme (EIS), and incentives to support "games clusters" of companies.OK, the EIS did come through, in some form. But the rest of it? Nowhere to be seen. So let's give Tiga two cheers, or perhaps a crouching ovation. Good, but could do better. We should have known that something like this half-hearted measure was coming.Interviewed by MediaGuardian's Dan Sabbagh last week, Jeremy Hunt let slip thoughts on the games industry – you know, the one that contributes £1bn to UK GDP, employs 9,000 skilled development staff, is almost all (85%) outside London, and is in SMEs that the government so needs.What did Hunt think? "We need to diversify our economy, replicate some of the success of the City," he said – with "the right regulatory framework". What&nbsp;about the tax break? "I don't know if that was the right way to go." Oh, disappointing. But: "we need to offer the video game industry a package as financially competitive as Canada."This is one where you just can't square the circle. Being competitive with Canada means making the long-term investment of a tax break. R&amp;D credits just won't do it – something Tiga grumpily pointed out in its semi-celebratory email: the tax breaks for games companies in Canada, for example, mean its games industry grew by 33% between 2008 and 2010, while the UK's declined by 9%.The government long ago stopped investing directly in companies, but it can still nudge the scales when it wants to. It's happy to do it for the record and film industries – witness all the blather about controlling "digital lockers" that can be used to share files (and are invaluable to businesses that need to move big files around). The&nbsp;games industry is just as big.But of course it isn't 100 years old. Maybe Tiga needs to wait until 2100 for a government that really understands the need for games. Frankly, though, if we have a prime minister and minister for communications who already play games (Angry Birds and Super Mario Galaxy respectively), we could hope for better. Much better.
Last week, a US judge in Manhattan made a landmark decision. As to what it means, opinions vary. Some see it as arresting the cultural progress that began with the Enlightenment; others are celebrating Judge Denny Chin's ruling as the blocking of a predatory move by a giant corporation to control access to the world's cultural heritage. The truth, as always, lies somewhere in between.First, the backstory. In 2004, Google decided that it would digitise all the books currently held in a series of major libraries with the aim of making their contents globally available to anyone with a web browser. Theprojectwas the brainchild of Larry Page, one of Google's two founders, who is soon to become the company's  CEO. It was a typical Google project – audacious, difficult and fiendishly expensive – but one that fitted naturally with the company's stated mission to "organise the world's information".In the past few decades, everything that has been published in print also exists in digital form, but most of the world's books existed only in paper form and digitising them was a task that most people regarded as insuperable. That, however, is exactly the kind of challenge that turns on Google engineers. So they set to work, and to date have scanned upwards of 15 million volumes, the texts of which reside on their server farms, ready to be called up by a simple web search.For some reason, (possibly because it feared rejection) Google omitted to consult publishers and copyright holders about this bold endeavour. The results were predictable. In 2005, the Authors Guild and the Association of American Publishers sued for "massive copyright infringement". Google claimed that the project represented "fair use", arguing that it was providing full text only of works that were in the public domain and showing just a searchable online summary for books still under copyright protection. But the publishers were not placated and the action continued.Then, in an astonishing move, the company and the plaintiffs reached an agreement: in return for a payment of $125m, together with arrangements for collecting and distributing royalties, Google would be free to continue with its project. In retrospect, to call this astonishing is an under-statement. If ratified, the agreement would effectively hand over mankind's cultural heritage to Google, because it would indemnify the company from liability for infringing the copyright in so-called "orphan" works –  works still in copyright but whose rights holders are unknown or untraceable.This is a big deal for two reasons: first, a large percentage of extant works fall into thiscategory; and second, copyright infringement carries "strict liability", which means that there are no limits to the damages that might be awarded for infringement, even if it was done inadvertently. Strict liability is the reason why nobody has hitherto contemplated large-scale digitisation: the potential financial hazards are too unpredictable.The negotiated agreement between Google and the authors and publishers was submitted to the court for Judge Chin's approval. It was, predictably, opposed by Google's competitors (Microsoft, Amazon, etc), but also by some copyright experts and, most significantly, the US Department of Justice. Until Tuesday, nobody knew what the judge would decide.Now we do. In a 48-pagedecisionthe judge concluded that the $125m deal would give the internet giant the ability to "exploit" books without the permission of copyright owners, echoing the Justice Department's concerns about the deal. "While the digitisation of books and the creation of a universal digital library would benefit many," Judge Chin said, the agreement would "simply go too far" because it would "give Google a significant advantage over competitors, rewarding it for engaging in wholesale copying of copyrighted works without permission"" It would also "arguably give Google control over the search market" for books – which is what the Justice Department had argued in its submission.So Judge Chin rejected the agreement. He also indicated that he would consider a revised agreement that would better protect copyright owners, say, by requiring that they opt into the digitisation process. But an agreement modified along those lines would effectively cripple the Google project, because it would mean that most orphan works would be digitally invisible. So it looks as though Larry Page's dream has been derailed.There is, as it happens, an obvious solution. The US Congress, followed by the EU, could change the rules about orphan works, and in particular about the strict liability that copyright infringement carries. Nobody is arguing that infringement should not be punishable, only that the damage resulting from it should be impartially assessed and the penalties should be proportionate to the damage. It's just common sense. The only problem is that common sense about copyright is the one thing that Congress doesn't do.
