Two years ago I joinedZopa, the online bank that claims to offer better rates by cutting out the middleman (tinyurl.com/2cxxgb). I haven't thought much about it since but it turns out that the &pound;2,000 I switched from a building society around October 2005 has gathered interest of &pound;235.82, so it has been a reasonable deal. Zopa has been a modest success, but is too tiny to appear on the radar of the big banks - which have yet to face serious competition from an eBay-type organisation that could remove the need for intermediaries by putting lenders directly in touch with borrowers on a massive scale. Zopa does that in a small way which is still a little complicated for some borrowers, even though processes have been simplified.Zopa has just introduced a fascinating new service - inspired by social networks - that enables you to see a photo (or icon) of the person asking for the loan, together with their pitch and details including their credit rating.One candidate wanted to buy their dream horse and another wanted just over &pound;1,000 to start a business assembling computers from spare parts. You can email the borrowers if you want more details and offer them whatever interest rate you like. It feels a bit like being in the Dragons' Den on telly. Lenders don't get the security of Northern Rock (guaranteed by the Bank of England) but loans are spread among borrowers to minimise bad risks and it sure has a much cosier feel about it than a bank call centre.This is just one example of how social network ideas are rapidly being cannibalised. Over the weekend I signed up for a trial ofphotophlow.com, a new service from the admirable Flickr photo community that enables you to discuss and share photos online in real time with others. You can instantly call up streams of photos while you are chatting (using text) with others. It is a neat addition, though as more join in the conversation it is easy to answer someone else's question by mistake.Normally the likes of MySpace enable people to link with communities of like-minded folk within them. Saga is different. It is already a community for the over-50s with its own magazine, holidays etc. It just needed to switch on the light so everyone could see each other. It did that last week and the system nearly collapsed under its own popularity. I dared to post a comment asking whether members really wanted to be in a ghetto unable to meet under-50s and I was soon shouted down. They said if they wanted to to use Facebook they can (and do) but this was a way of liaising with like-minded folk and that's the way they wanted it. Touch&eacute;.The past week has also seen Plaxo, which has been around for years, re-invent itself with "dynamic profiles" giving users control over friends and contacts. Coincidentally, my annual subscription to Friends Reunited - one of the networking pioneers that blew its early lead - came up this week. I hardly ever use it but decided to stay with it as it is more user-friendly now and gives much easier access to old friends from school, university, work or even by postcode. It has one unusual feature. It charges an annual fee, something that MySpace dare not do. And there are still enough mugs like me not to leave when the automatic renewal comes up.But the most interesting move of the past week was Google's announcement of OpenSocial, a club of third-party developers using open standards to write programs that work on any network that sign up. This could transform these networks from a chain of gated communities into one interconnected world. This is a good for usability and democracy. Well, it's been quite a week in this space. Social networks used to be about finding out what your friends are doing. Now it is more a case of trying to keep up with what the social networks are up to.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Say "massively multiplayer online gaming" and most people will think of goblin-bashing games set in fantasy worlds such as World of Warcraft. However, the traditional MMO has just one way of making money: monthly subscriptions and/or the sale of the client software.But a new MMO format may have found a way to create multiple revenue streams.Empire of Sports, which is about to go into closed beta with a planned launch at the end of this year, is set to capitalise on a number of developments on the internet, including the growth of in-game advertising and social networking.In the game, you start as a rookie and develop your skill at various sports in a virtual world. Activities include football, skiing and bobsledding, with many more planned, according to the Swiss-based developers.This creates multiple opportunities for companies to place their brands in the game - for a fee, of course."Product placement is more attractive to advertisers and to gamers," says Christian M&uuml;ller, manging director of Empire of Sports. Such product placement, he suggests, could include, say, a branded car to transport your avatar between the cities that will make up the gameworld. "Time is precious," says M&uuml;ller, "so you could buy a car to travel in."There is also plenty of opportunity for real-life organisations to have an in-game presence. In-game membership of real-world clubs could, M&uuml;ller suggests, lead to real-world interactions such as meeting stars and going to events. And the development of avatars from rookies to experts in their field requires the player to manage their (virtual) exercise and nutrition. "You could have, for example, a beverage company selling sports drinks that have an effect on your avatar," M&uuml;ller says.Social networking will also be part of the world: players will be able to form teams and join clubs. They will also, Muller says, be able to congregate to watch real-world sporting events: "It's a 3D world where people get together," he says.While that seems like Second Life, user-generated content, however, will be more strictly controlled. "We don't want some of the kind of content that has been seen in Second Life," M&uuml;ller says.What about the traditional way of making money? "It will be a downloadable client," M&uuml;ller says. He is considering a staggered subscription model, with some content free and further content and character development available for a small fee."We hope that in the end advertising and sponsorship will take away the need for a subscription fee," says M&uuml;ller, who adds that it will be "significantly lower" than World of Warcraft's prices.Mixing social networking, competition and creating your own space in a persistent world is, M&uuml;ller says, "not so much web 2.0 as web 3D".
The OperaWatch blog claimed last week that the Opera browser increased its market share by 14% in October, which sounds really impressive until you read a few words on and discover that this represents the conquest of 1% of the net. But is that a large or a small number? Obviously, it is tiny in comparison even with Apple's Safari, which has about 5% of the recorded market - Internet Explorer still has 80%, and Firefox around 14%.On the other hand, 1% of the world's net users is still around 120 million people. That's right: about a fifth of the whole population of the world's is online today. Some people will say there has never been as large a market in the history of the world as these 1.2 billion, but it would be just as true to say that there have never been so many people united by their extreme reluctance to pay for anything.The overwhelming feature of this gigantic digital economy is that individuals play no part in it. They don't buy and they don't sell. This sounds like a paradox. How can more than a billion people, by definition richer than average, just disappear from the market? But it's clear that when people are online as individuals, they don't expect to pay for any digital goods.Corporations will pay, if only because they are worth suing. But has anyone made serious money from selling programs, pictures or even music directly to these 1.2 billion people? The people who have made fortunes from software have done so by selling to companies. Microsoft does its best to ensure that no one ever consciously pays for a copy Windows. Instead they buy a computer, with the price of the operating system baked in; Office is sold to individuals at a trivial price - a licence for the "Home and Student" edition will put it on three computers for &pound;100, which is about the level at which it is less trouble than piracy, but selling software like that would never have made the company rich.Apple's software is really a way to sell hardware; Google is in the advertising business. Opera has such a low market share because for years people had to pay for it, while the competition was free. I was thinking of these things over the weekend at a concert in a rich man's house. John Buckman runs Magnatune, an interesting record label - not least because it hardly puts out CDs at all, and would at one stage give away its products. Almost all of Magnatune's music is downloaded. The buyer chooses the price, knowing that half will go to the musicians - a much better deal than they would get from a mainstream record company.This is the deal that Radiohead got a lot of publicity for last month, but Magnatune has been doing it for years. All of their music is also available as streams, for free, so that you can use the label as a kind of background radio.This, it turns out, is where the money is. Individual humans must contribute to a small profit with their downloads. But without a giant merchandising operation, such as Radiohead has, the musicians are not going to get rich from their fans. The highest average price paid for a Magnatune recording is $10.50 (&pound;5) for the (original) harpsichord suites of Janine Johnson. Most of their recordings sell for less than $8 on average.I fear that the market has spoken, and delivered them a raspberry, What's left is something like the market for music in 1807, before the gramophone and even the symphony hall. There is stuff played in public, for the love of it, and paid for at a modest rate. Then there is the rather larger and much better paid market of music used for "sacred" purposes - though nowadays it is not worship, but shopping which demands music wholesale to put the congregation in the right mood.Finally, there is the stuff delivered to private patrons: in this instance to John Buckman, who made his fortune with a piece of software that only a corporation would buy. I don't want to sound smug.Suppose the net were to double in size over the next 10 years, so that there were 2 billion people online. How many of those would pay for the written word once that, like music, has had its iPod moment? Will writing, too, retreat from the market, and become something that is done for free, or to gratify a patron?&middot;thewormbook.com/helmintholog
Downloaders are freeloadersComScore, a web analysis company, reckons that only 38% of the people who downloaded Radiohead's In Rainbows album paid anything, andthe average payment was only $6 (&pound;2.87).Business gameIBM has introduced avideogamedesigned to help university students develop their business and IT skills.Virtual snooker hallA London pub - The Metropolitan in Westbourne Grove - will today be the first to offer a virtual snooker hall, renting out Nintendo DS handhelds runningWorld Snooker Championship.BlackBerry PearlRIM has launched itsBlackBerry Pearl 8120quad-band smartphone in the UK via O2.Broadband for a tennerPipexhas launched an 8Mbps broadband service with a Mini version at &pound;9.99 per month (plus &pound;20 connection fee) on a one-year contract.Renegade gaming chairEuropean consumers can now order a motorised UGCRenegade gaming chairfor Christmas, for something over &pound;200.Oprah on YouTubeOprah Winfrey now has herown channel on YouTube. Content will include behind-the-scenes videos.Sketch on the phoneDakine Wave has launched a version of its Sketch software formobile phones.
Metroid Prime 3: CorruptionWii, &pound;39.99, cert 12+, Retro Studios/Nintendo, 4/5Here's proof - much-needed, according to long-standing Nintendo fans - that the Wii can provide more than mere casual gaming. The much-loved shoot-'em-up/puzzle-solving franchise has gained plenty from the jump to the Wii: the control system, which assigns movement to the Nunchuk and targeting to the Wiimote, works beautifully, and the Wiimote enables kick-arse heroine Samus Aran to indulge in all manner of gesture-based pulling of handles, pumping of levers and so on. Corruption's story is weirder and more wonderful than ever, and the bizarre alien settings are gloriously imaginative. Throw in some outrageously difficult-to-dispatch bosses and a satisfyingly meaty single-player experience (alas, still no multiplayer) and the result is the best Metroid Prime game yet.Steve BoxerRatchet and Clank Future: Tools of DestructionPS3, &pound;49.99, cert 7+, Sony/Insomniac, 4/5After a disappointing launch, the PS3 finally has a game that does it justice. Ratchet and Clank is a beautiful sprawling adventure that resurrects the tired platforming genre. Like the Pixar movies to which it has been compared - it looks good, but not that good - this has that ability to appeal to the young and old. Comedy weapons make up the core of the game, with a hugely inventive selection - including vicious bees - of ways to dispatch your foes. Graphically, Ratchet is hugely impressive, with each planet offering you the chance to gawp at the sheer amount of onscreen action. The use of the tilt action on the controller feels gimmicky and at times the game feels a little overwhelmed, with almost too much going on. But when HD gaming often means a first person shooter or serious racing game, Ratchet and Clank is a welcome respite. It is also the best PS3 game to date.Greg HowsonHellgate LondonPC, &pound;34.99, cert 15+, Flagship/EA, 4/5You've got to love a game that reduces London to a pile of  zombie-infested ruins, and Hellgate has much going for it. Graphically, it's the best RPG yet, with jaw-dropping setpieces from Covent Garden to Big Ben that wouldn't look out of place in Half Life 2. It's also buzzing with randomly generated quests, items and challenges, making no two games alike. With respawning monsters adding to the frustration of multiple deaths and an over-complicated inventory system, this unofficial sequel to Diablo maintains the same insane addictiveness. If only the gameplay had evolved as far as the visuals it would be a true classic. Still enormous fun, though.Mike Anderiesz
Because there are fewer dialup users to convert to an always-on connection - and beyond them, there's a hard core of about 10m households who don't have, and possibly don't want, internet access of any kind.But as broadband ISPs struggle between themselves to convert the unwilling 1.9 million or so remaining dialup users, the tougher question is: what will tempt non-internet users online? Point Topic, an analyst company, notes that the third quarter of this year was "a bad one for the UK broadband industry", with the lowest broadband gains since early 2003: it estimates that UK ISPs added no more than 470,000 new broadband users between July and September, to reach a total of 15.1 million with some connection."Not only are there fewer [dialup users] but the ones that are left are also more resistant to change ... they have low levels of internet usage, often for email only, and see no reason to pay extra for broadband," says Tim Johnson, Point Topic's chief analyst.Dialup usage peaked back in February 2002; at the time fewer than two thirds of Britons could get broadband even if they wanted it - BT had not enabled the exchanges. But in April 2004 BT abandoned its unpopular "trigger" scheme under which local exchanges were broadband-enabled according to demand, and simply upgraded the lot. Adoption rocketed, and by May 2005 the number of broadband connections had edged out the number of slower dialup connections. For the past 12 months at least, ISPs have relied for their growth on converting dialup users; but now that low-hanging fruit has been picked off.Johnson says that is bad news: "With almost 40% of British households on the wrong side of the digital divide, the social and economic progress of the UK will be stalled unless the great majority can be brought online."There are some signs of hope in innovative schemes aimed at those who might not have thought of using the internet: Orange has signed up 50,000 people in the past three months with its "free laptop for broadband signups" scheme, while Sky has notched up 1 million broadband subscribers in just 14 months. But while Labour may have achieved its 1997 manifesto aim of getting the internet into every classroom, the digital divide is alive and well - and probably at a home not far from you.
In some ways yes, in others no. The latest big cat flavour of OS X unleashed last month was quickly poked and prodded by security experts keen to explore any weakness they could find (since the heaadline "weakness in OSX!" is a surefire reader magnet). They found lots: first, the firewall is turned off by default (as it has been on previous versions), and when turned on will still allow all connections - about as useful as a chocolate fireguard. Next, notes Heise Security, it doesn't distinguish between trusted networks and potentially dodgy ones - unlike (gasp!) Windows Vista (tinyurl.com/39bjq5). Then, you can only deny connections by application, not by service or by port - which you could in Tiger and which you really ought to be able to do. Nor can you block outbound services - and it's those that are usually a problem with exploits. The review identifies other issues to do with Apple not using the most up-to-date versions of various protocols. The gist is clear: security wonks aren't happy.Next is the new Back To My Mac service, which lets .Mac subscribers access their Macs via .Mac from any other machine running Leopard. One click connects directly to it, without any other password. So someone who gets your .Mac account login gets your machine too, for free. "Do not go back to my Mac," warn the Open Door team (tinyurl.com/yo39gk).A closer examination by Matasono Security (attinyurl.com/yqt3pl) also points to weaknesses in the one-time "guest" account and even in the new "address randomization" feature, which should makes some attacks (notably buffer overflows, a common remote exploit) more difficult. Overall, it's cold comfort - especially for those whose mums have accessed their porn stash via Back To My Mac.
There was a patriotic mood in the air on race day in the desert north of Los Angeles last Saturday. On a former airbase close to Victorville, a godforsaken town built along California's Highway 15 to Las Vegas, several cars lined up in front of the grandstand, behind a fence and concrete barriers. Then the starting signal went off. And - nothing happened. The cars remained motionless.That's no surprise. These vehicles are entirely computer-controlled and autonomous; with no drivers inside, they take some time to make their minds up.First a warning siren started flashing on their roofs, then the engines roared. One by one, with a few minutes in between them, the cars - station wagons, Land Rovers and even a lemon-yellow truck - started their journey. Laser scanners, radar sensors and stereovision cameras served as their eyes, connected by cable harnesses to stacked computers in their trunks. The task: to master a course of about 90 miles in less than six hours. This was certainly no high-speed chase. The objective was not to race each other, but to survive simulated traffic without breaking any traffic regulations. An unusual urban tour including passing, parking and handling oncoming traffic.Street car desiresThis competition between driverless vehicles was called Urban Challenge - the third race of its kind within three years, organised by Darpa, the research agency of the US Department of Defense. The motivation: the US Congress has demanded that by 2015, one-third of its armed forces' ground vehicles must be autonomous.While the first two races were robot rallies crossing the empty Mojave desert, Darpa had to look for another site to simulate urban driving, and alighted on the defunct military base near Victorville. Instead of housing soldiers, the abandoned and partly demolished town of Victorville is used by the military to practise urban combat.A total of 35 teams arrived a week before the race in the desert town, all hoping to make it to the finals. Among them were wealthy university crews such as Stanford Racing, lead by Sebastian Thrun. Its automobile, a blue Volkswagen Passat named Junior, was supported by Google, VW, Red Bull and the Silicon Valley venture capital group Mohr Davidow.Two years ago, Stanford's all-terrain vehicle, a Volkswagen Tuareg, beat the red autonomous Humvee from Carnegie Mellon University. That team's leader, robotics expert William "Red" Whittaker, came back seeking revenge. But small teams also took part, such as Axion Racing: its jeep, Spirit, has accumulated nearly 200,000 miles on its odometer. The only European entrants were four teams from car-crazed Germany. All the teams were lured by the technical challenge, the possibility to promote themselves - and a prize of $3.5m (&pound;1.6m).Thrun emphasises the civilian benefit of the technology: "For us, this is mainly about road safety. Thousands of people die yearly on the streets and driver assistant systems can save lives." Cruise control, distance warning systems and lane departure warning already help today's drivers. And with self-steering vehicles, Thrun smiles, one day a car could chauffeur its drunken owner home.To achieve such feats, the 'carbot' is packed with electronics. GPS helps the machine to locate itself within inches, while a digital map aids route planning. Sensors, especially laser scanners, measure the distance to garden fences and pedestrians. Also, measuring the laser's reflection helps to tell whether the car is heading towards a dust cloud or a brick wall. Many teams also installed a special spinning laser by the US company Velodyne that creates a map of the area.But sensors are only one side of the story. It's algorithms, says Thrun, that are going to win the battle: "This is a software race." The data from all the sensors is send to shoebox-sized computers stacked in a metal frame in the back of the car. They help to create a 3D model of the constantly changing surroundings. Based on this, the programs make decisions within milliseconds, sending their control commands to the gearbox, brakes and steering rack.Not all of the 35 teams qualified for the finals; during the testing before the race, teams faced tough tests on different courses. Axion Racing's Spirit hit a blue Ford Taurus as it tried to make a turn into traffic. "This is a historical moment," said team leader Bill Kehaly: "it's the first collision between a robotic vehicle and a human-driven car." A German entrant did not fare much better: Team Lux from Hamburg unexpectedly made a turn - and headed straight towards a following vehicle which, to make matters worse, had Darpa director Ted Tether on board. (He ordered it "killed" - that is, to make an emergency halt.)On race day, Darpa sent only 11 finalists on three missions: they had to reach waymarks in the abandoned town, deciding themselves which route to take. The traffic thinned out quickly. The Oshkosh-truck, weighing several tons, hit the pillar of a house. AnnieWay from Karlsruhe suddenly simply ground to a halt: its computer had crashed. Another German robot car, Carolo from Braunschweig, was deemed too dangerous as it came excitingly close to fellow cars several times; Darpa retired it early. That did not happen to the Cornell and MIT entrants, even though the cars' bumpers collided at one point. Another first: an all-robot traffic accident.In the end six teams remained - and the favourites lived up to their expectations. Junior crossed the finish line first to applause - that came too early. Carnegie Mellon's more aggressive Chevy Tahoe, named Boss, had started much later than Stanford, but arrived only a few minutes later to achieve the best finishing time without any major traffic violations.And with that, the racing Herbie from the Walt Disney movies had come one step closer to reality.Mission accomplished?It was impressive, but not exhilarating. When Darpa first announced the Grand Challenge four years ago, the military research organisation wanted to prove that it was technically possible to create a self-steering driving machine. That mission is now accomplished.But on the way to this race, something got lost. The first events, in 2004 and 2005, were characterised by the feverish obsession of garage tinkerers, savvy engineers and even a horde of unruly high school students.This time, some teams had the benefit budgets of several million dollars; they arrived with PR managers, their own photographers and industry representatives. The self-driving car has become big business - and with that, small teams cannot keep up any longer. After the awards ceremony, second-placed Thrun commented: "These challenges may not be the most suitable way to advance this technology." Tether agreed: "Darpa is in the business of starting things, not finishing them. It might be time for us to move on."
I've come to understand that there's been unexpected interest in my wellbeing from the kind strangers who read this column. My coverage of Brighton's Street Wars water gun tournament, which pitted hippie against hippie in a cross-city assassination competition, in which I confessed that the mental trauma associated with being the witting target for an unnamed foe rendered me immobile and house-bound for three weeks, has resulted in an outpouring of support. Well, I'm pleased to announce to all concerned that I did not meet a gruesome (or, more accurately, wet) end down the barrel of a super soaker.Ultimately, however, my panic was without basis; the Facebook Street Wars page initially boasted more than 100 people, but the end only five were taken out. The rest of us - whether we actually made attempts, discussed grand schemes on the forums or slumped into apathy - managed to make it out alive. I must admit that I fall into the last category; the fear for my personal safety meant that I never actually bothered to track down my hapless victim. I had good intentions of stalking his house and loitering outside with a souped-up balloon launcher, but I got lazy. I have a feeling that there are 94 others out there who experienced the same lethargy. How rubbish is that? Don't tell me, I already know.But as I was staring into the close distance under self-inflicted house arrest, I did realise that this real-life first person shooter experience reflected computer gameplay in general. The group of Street Wars participants can be classified into the four Bartle Types, a classification system developed by the father of the MMO genre, Richard Bartle. The theory goes that at any one time gamers are achievers, killers, explorers or socialisers. And indeed, there were participants who threw themselves into stacking up points by winning the game with style over substance. Others went in with guns a'blazing, hoping to mark up as many kills as possible. Some explored what it meant to be part of such a tournament. Most of the players, however, took on the roles of socialisers, trash-talking one another on the forums and using the game as an excuse to add more friends to their Facebook profiles.I'd like to contribute one more type to the list. This experience and the fact that, if there were an option in most first-person shooters or MMOs to have a nice sit-down and a cup of tea rather than to face the alien hordes around every corner intending to rip me asunder, I would probably take it, suggests that I should fall into the "paranoid beyond sensible rationality" type.I think I'll avoid the next Street Wars and find a new genre. My wellbeing relies upon it.
Last year, about 1% of the web servers bought worldwide didn't exist physically. The licences for the operating systems were paid for, but no machines were sold with them. That's because, going by the licences sold by a company called VMWare, those servers ran inside other operating systems, running on a single machine. Where two physical machines might have existed, only one does; the other exists in a "virtual machine" (VM) made of software.That is part of a growing, and important, trend called virtualisation - the use of software (such as VMWare's) which pretends to an operating system that it, VMWare, is a physical machine.The virtualised operating system can't tell the difference; it sends out requests and receives answers that are consistent with running inside its own physical machine. It's like the question posed by the film The Matrix: how would you know if everything you experienced were being fed directly to your brain, rather than through your physical body? How does the operating system or application know whether it's running inside another program, or its own physical machine?Virtualisation accelerationThe number of virtual machines created last year may be larger than 1%, as those for Linux machines, still the largest proportion of web servers, don't require a licence from Sun or Microsoft. The analyst group IDC forecasts that virtualisation will accelerate, and that by 2011 half of all physical servers will have been virtualised. The effect of that, says David Rose of the consultancy Xantus, will be to slow down hardware sales as bigger companies consolidate their server farms. "You have five physical servers consolidated down to one server, which makes more efficient use of resources," he explains. "Rather than five servers running at 15% to 20% of their capacity, you have one server running at 90% capacity."The use of fewer servers means virtualisation is often mentioned in the same breath as power saving, and with it the idea of "green" computing - or using less power to do the same amount of processing. With energy costs rising dramatically, the owners of server farms are looking to cut down on energy use. Fewer servers running close to capacity is the ideal. Neil Hodson, general manager of the hosting company 1&amp;1 Internet - which claims to be the world's largest, with 5,000 servers - explains: "For instance, instead of one customer on one server, we can have 1,000 customers on one server - reducing hardware, administration and energy costs considerably."Because a virtualised computer has a completely standard "hardware" and "software" configuration - since the whole thing is written in software anyway - it can be treated as a dedicated appliance which can simply be switched on and will run without the nagging problems with software or hardware incompatibilities that turn up in the real world. The principal risk, Hodson notes, is that if the main server crashes, everything goes with it: there's no resilience.Still, companies that now sell single applications which have to fit on all sorts of hardware, and fit with all sorts of other software, can now hope to sell not just their own programs but the machines they run on, all in one virtual bundle which can simply be dropped in to run on a server. One company - rpath, based in North Carolina - already sells programs designed to make it easier to build these virtual self-contained worlds.VMWare, the first company in the business to go public, was the great bubble stock of the summer, shooting up from $56 (&pound;27) to $85; its present $122 stock price values the business at more than $40bn; it is reckoned to have two-thirds of the present virtualisation business. Another (open source) rival, XenSource, was bought for a mere $500m in cash and stock the day after the VMware IPO by Citrix, whose business had been in providing terminals to mainframes. Explaining the move, Citrix noted that "industry experts estimate that up to 30 million office workers will move to virtual desktops over the next five years, creating a new $1bn market for desktop virtualisation".Citrix in particular envisions a world where it would control the gamut of virtualisation: an individual worker would "see" a Windows desktop on a terminal which would in fact be virtualised on a (Citrix-based) central server. There could even be virtualised Microsoft Office applications, which might not even need an entire desktop. Dell and HP have moved rapidly to offer Citrix's products on their servers - because if virtualisation becomes key to winning the shrinking number of contracts, it's important to support it, not resist it.Microsoft has its own offerings, but it also has unique problems, because virtualisation could damage its upgrade business: a company that relies on old programs or whose PCs are wheezing but functional might choose to buy a single new machine and virtualise all the old ones inside it - denying Microsoft the licence fees for new copies of Windows.Dramatic vision of the futureWhile EMC has profited tidily from VMWare, which is close to hitting $1bn annual revenues, Dell said this week it will spend $1.4bn on EqualLogic, a minor partner in VMWare, which sells storage systems adapted for virtualisation; its growth has been rapid, having only shipped its first products in 2003, yet already having more than 3,200 customers.It's a dramatic vision of the future, one where increasingly powerful hardware sells in fewer units, and where, 1&amp;1's Hodson notes, problems with hacking and, in some cases, viruses can be solved by just pausing or restarting the virtual machine. The virus writers are already fighting back: antivirus testers have seen some viruses use sophisticated tests to check whether they're running in a VM; if they are, they won't run. That prevents the antivirus companies dissecting them, since VMs are their preferred method of investigating malware: if the virus messes up the virtual machine, you simply stop the program and restart from the original, virus-free dataset.Clearly, both the stock market and the virus writers think virtualisation is important enough to take note of. Since the focus of both is money, that also suggests it's a force which can't be ignored.
Need to check that your childminder lives where they say they do? Loan them 10p: as a money lender, you're now allowed to check an individual's electoral register entry electronically - a privilege not available if they're merely in charge of your children. Alastair Crawford cites the example as an anomaly thrown up by attempts to control the re-use of official data.He has encountered many more. Over the past 10 years, his startup business has created 192.com, described as "the de facto standard search engine for finding people, business and places across the UK" by acquiring access to databases from phone numbers to postcodes to maps. Generally, it involves a fight.Right to re-use dataIt began with phone numbers. The first 192 product, in 1997, was a national electronic phone book derived from BT data. Crawford claimed the right to re-use phone numbers on two grounds. First, he was acting with consent - subscribers agreed that their numbers be published. Second, isn't it in BT's interest that phone numbers be disseminated as widely as possible? After two years of skirmishing, 192 agreed to pay BT for the data, a setup Crawford describes as "bizarre".The idea that giving information away can increase its value is uncomfortable for many businesses, even state-owned ones. Another 192.com battle was over access to postcodes, produced and owned by Royal Mail but widely used elsewhere to verify addresses. In a lawsuit that went to the High Court, Royal Mail sought royalties from 192."It was a wipeout claim," Crawford says. "They were asking &pound;150 for every CD Rom we had ever produced, and we were only selling them for &pound;34. They were really intent on destroying the company."As with BT, 192 argued that its use of postcodes was legal, because the product involved work by third parties who were licensed. In February 2004, the High Court agreed. The judge was apparently impressed by being asked for his postcode when visiting a museum just before the trial. "It was a very important landmark victory," says Crawford. "If Royal Mail had achieved what it wanted, it would have been able to claim rights to every consumer database in the country."As with BT, Crawford argues that Royal Mail benefits from postcodes being widely available. "It saves them a huge amount of money. The only value it has is because everyone uses it." Attempting to make money from the system is "pure greed".  After the court case, Crawford says, Royal Mail "apologised for what had happened". Relationships between the two organisations are now amicable, he says.Likewise, he describes as "fine" his relationship with Ordnance Survey (OS) - which, like Royal Mail, has come to the attention of Guardian Technology's Free Our Data campaign. Several of 192's products, including a journey planner launched last year, rely on data from Ordnance Survey's digital MasterMap. "OS are very commercial and we find them to be fairly flexible," he says.That does not mean he agrees with OS's business model, which requires it to turn a profit. He claims the current state of affairs puts UK-based commercial mapping companies at a disadvantage with global players such as Google - while Google licenses OS data, it can spread the cost across markets where core geographical data is free."Google can take a view of the costs, because the UK is just one country to them. But for us, the UK is the only place we work. How can we compete?"The most controversial aspect of the 192.com product range involves data from the electoral register. The Guardian's campaign has always argued that data identifying private individuals should not be part of the "free data" corpus.Today, local paper registers are available in public libraries but voters can have their details excluded from edited registers made available electronically. The only exception is for credit reference agencies. "I can access the full database if I'm going to lend you money, but if I'm going to put you in charge of my children, I can't," Crawford says.Need for changeCrawford's view is that making full registers widely available electronically is good for privacy as well as democracy. While there are no controls on private detectives or journalists trawling through paper registers, access to an electronic register could be recorded and audited. "Online is much safer. We log every access. These are all arguments for security and privacy."At the Free Our Data campaign, we're not so certain - a line must be drawn somewhere to stop free data becoming a snooper's charter. Where we agree with Crawford is that the government needs a clear set of rules for making its data available to the knowledge economy with as few strings as possible.This week, the government's Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information published a call for ministers to draw up a national strategy for public sector information. It notes that current policy on the knowledge economy was formulated seven years ago, "before the main enabling knowledge technologies had matured or had even been developed".Crawford agrees on the need for change. "Small companies in this country are trying to make information freely available, but are being prevented at every hurdle."&middot; Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
In the course of 60 years, I have acquired hundreds of negatives that range in size from 5 x 7cm to 10 x 8 inches. Having prints made is ruinously expensive. I know there are scanners for 35mm film, but are there any that can handle larger negatives?JW TarrantLarge-format negatives are usually scanned professionally on drum scanners, but these are very expensive. Fortunately, some of the better flatbed scanners can scan negatives, perhaps with an accessory adapter from BetterScanning.com. Your best bet is probably the EpsonPerfection 4990 Photo, which can handle 10 x 8in negs with a film adapter. It's very good value at under £300.The Epson Perfection V750 Pro is better but is more than twice the price (around £650). The CanoScan 9950F has also been a popular choice for the job but only goes up to 5 x 4in negatives.The Large Format Photography site is doingcollaborative tests of large-format scanners.Make sure the negatives are really clean before you start: dust specks can be a problem, and the built-in Digital ICE does not work with black and white images. You may want to invest inVueScansoftware to do the scanning, andPictureCodeor similar noise reduction software. You will probably need to do some retouching in a graphics program such as Adobe Photoshop or Paint Shop Pro.
I am very happy with my Sony K800i but would consider replacing it with a mobile that had a DAB radio as opposed to an FM one. Is such a thing available?Richard CardenI only know of one: it's an HTC product sold by Virgin Mobile as theLobster 700TV. As the name suggests, it's aimed at the mobile TV market, so it hasn't been promoted as a DAB phone.Backchat: In a comment below, Briantist -- who has one -- says: "Sorry to disappoint, but you can no longer get a Lobster from Virgin Mobile." By email, Daryl Kayes says the shortage of DAB phones "may be partly due to the heavy battery drain of DAB technology. For example, the Freeplay wind-up DAB radio should give you 10 hours of FM reception for 10 minutes of winding, but only half an hour of DAB radio." However, more power-efficient DAB chips are on the way.
When I shut down Windows Vista Home Basic I get an error message saying that KBD.EXE has stopped working.John ChatleyI'd guess you have a Hewlett-Packard wireless or similar extended keyboard. Suppliers provide their own drivers to handle extra multimedia keys, and so on. Check your supplier's website for an updated driver. Alternatively, you could use the msconfig utility to remove it from the startup sequence as explainedhere: if you don't use the extra keyboard features, you don't need the file.TheFile.netsite warns that a malware program could be using the kbd.exe filename. However, any of the mainstream checkers should pick that up.
I have bought a Sony Net MD Walkman to record audio on location, and transfer digitally to a PC for editing. Sony's SonicStage 1.5 gives a fail message on attempting transfer of the sound file to the PC. Short of dubbing in real time, is there any other way of digitally transferring such a sound file, please?Richard ThornNot as far as I know. The "innovation" with Net MD was that you could do quick PC-to-MiniDisc transfers via a USB cable. It didn't allow the reverse. There was apetitionabout this in August 2002. In any case, I think the data is in copy-protected Sony Atrac format, so there's nothing else you can do with it.Sony got the message and in 2004, three years after NetMD, it introduced the new high-capacity Hi-MD format. This can record audio in uncompressed linear PCM (ie, CD format), and a Hi-MD recorder should be recognised by a PC as a DOS-format USB storage device with no drivers required. (Record in Atrac, however, and you will have to use Sony's SonicStage software.) Hi-MD should allow fast file transfer, but I haven't done it myself. See the MiniDisc FAQ athttp://www.minidisc.org/hi-md_faq.htmlfor more details.I'm a MiniDisc user who balked at the stupidity of NetMD and am now wondering whether Hi-MD is worth a go. But I'm more likely to buy a digital recorder such as the Roland Edirol R-09 or Zoom H4, now these are getting smaller and cheaper.
Bill Thompsonwriteson the BBC site, apropos thelatest Mac Trojan:Despite the growing importance of computers and the internet in school I don't expect that this real threat to home computer users will make it into the school newsletter or be announced in assembly as part of the general school concern for pupil safety.And this highlights a real failing in the education system, one that betrays a lack of the sort of joined-up thinking that the government is trying to achieve elsewhere.There is a fair amount of skills-based IT training taking place, so that students leave school knowing how to write a letter, make a spreadsheet and create a presentation, even if their skills tend to be oriented around Microsoft Office instead of being more general.But this really is training, not teaching. IT has been embedded into the curriculum and students learn how to do stuff, but there is no space for discussion and debate that might lead to a deeper understanding of the technology or the issues it creates....It would be nice to think that my son would come home from school to tell me that there was nasty Mac Trojan in the wild because his teachers realised that it might be important to him.Which does get to the crux, surely: people think that they're computer-literate, but have no idea about what threats are out there - whereas if you're teaching (note, not training) someone to drive, you make the point that it's important to assume that other people won't necessarily stop for you, that things can go wrong with the car, that it's important to watch out.John Naughtonwroteon the same topic in January:Seymour Papert, the great MIT computer scientist who has written eloquently about children and computers, would not be in the least surprised by all this. His view, expressed in a series of memorable books, is that computers are intrinsically emancipatory devices, whereas schools are basically institutions of control. The problem is intensified by the fact that kids know more about computers than teachers do, which means the technology threatens to undermine the latter's authority. The response is to try and impose control, for example by creating roped-off spaces called 'ICT rooms' or 'computer labs' where pupils can use the technology only under ludicrously restricted conditions.This also explains why so much ICT teaching consists of training in the use of Microsoft software - preparing kids to use the ageing tools of an old paradigm - rather than educating them for life in a networked society where they will need different kinds of knowledge and skills as yet undreamt-of by the QCA. By failing to recognise this, we are not only boring our children but also doing them a great disservice. Our schools are providing ICT training, whereas what is needed is ICT education.To appreciate the distinction, think of sex. Would we be happy if schools provided sex training rather than sex education for our children? You only have to ask the question to know the answer.And the fact is that a lot of folk out there are getting infections. So why don't we hear the political parties talking about improving the IT curriculum so that it educates, rather than trains?
BBC game-friendly types have be pressing for it for years, but in the end it seems that EIDOS, one of the last few bastions of historical BritSoft gaming development and publishing, has nabbed the rights to EastEnders the game. At least, that's what the rumour mill is saying. According to MCV:Though no details are yet known about the forthcoming title, the odds are that the publisher would favour a Sims-style simulation game based around the antics of the Albert Square population. Though no details are yet known about the forthcoming title, the odds are that the publisher would favour a Sims-style simulation game based around the antics of the Albert Square population.Is it really the game with the ultimate cross-over appeal? Interactive Desperate Housewives barely made a ripple in the game development continuum; will a prime time, much-loved soap opera create the context for audience diversity?
The piece of the iPhone puzzle which will be most familiar to many potential buyers is the one which has helped turn Apple from a computer brand to a consumer electronics company: the iPod.Tucked inside the iPhone is, essentially, an iPod Touch with 8GB of Flash memory. Anyone who has used a Touch – released before the iPhone outside of the US – will already have a very good idea of what the handset offers.The iPod functions can be launched straight from a dedicated button on the bottom right of the home screen, taking you straight into your media library. Nothing revolutionary here – basic navigation is by playlist, artist or song – but, like your contacts list, it is easy to zip through an extensive selection by using your finger to flick through the list.The touchscreen is, once again, used to simplify the way you find your way through your information. It's also where Cover Flow, the visual navigation tool which Apple bought into iTunes last year, finally comes into its own.Rolling the iPhone onto its side while in iPod mode will launch Cover Flow, a horizontal sequence of record sleeves that you can speed through with your fingertips. Just tap the cover you want in order to see what music's available, and start listening.This method of looking through your library always seemed like a luxurious but ultimately pointless bauble to iTunes on a desktop computer – but here, with the addition of a touchscreen, it becomes a very usable way to browse your music library.Once your music is playing, you can switch the screen off with the button on the top of the iPhone and listen away to your heart's content. Basic interactions can without having to switch the screen back on – volume is controllable with the buttons on the side, and using the bundled earbuds, which are better quality than Apple's older ones, you can pause the music or skip tracks (the earbuds also have a microphone incorporated for use as a hands-free kit).This is where the gadget picks up another black mark, however, since the recessed headphone socket - which sits about half an inch inside the top of the iPhone - means that it's almost impossible to plug your own cans in. I prefer to listen on the go with a pair of bulky but non-leaky headphones, but they don't fit into the snug space for the jack.The quality of listening is a familiar experience, and though a portable MP3 player is never likely to capture the full sweep of sound quality, it does make a fair job of the task in hand.And another word of warning: if you don't have the headphones plugged in, the iPhone plays audio over its built-in speaker. The volume doesn't go dangerously loud, but it's still probably classified as Asbo-worthy.There's enough capacity for around 2,000 songs, which will be plenty for casual users – those who use existing music phones or lower-capacity iPods - but is likely to disappoint hardcore music fans. I found myself wanting a little more space; and not just for music.That's because, more than any of Apple's previous media players, you'll probably be tempted to use the iPhone for watching moving images as well as listening to music. As well as the direct link to YouTube content, the iPhone offers you the chance to watch your iTunes video downloads, podcasts and movies or TV shows that you've added.Flip the handset onto its side and (where available) your films switch from portrait to landscape mode, essentially giving you a bite-sized widescreen. Navigation is quick – three obvious clicks from the home screen – and Image quality is generally good, and you can through the latest Hollywood blockbuster without destroying the battery.A couple of small additions also make. You can buy music directly over a Wi-Fi connection using the built-in iTunes store (mentioned earlier). Download speed is the same as you would expect to your computer, and when you next login on your desktop machine, it will add the new music to your iTunes library.Integration with some of the gadget's other functions, meanwhile, is smooth: tunes fade out for a phone call (rather than stopping abruptly) and fade back in when you hang up. It's just a little touch, but one that's meant to remind you that this is not just a handful of different gadgets thrown willy nilly into one box.Incorporating the iPod functions inside the handset makes this one of the best music phones on the market, which – given the complexity of using some rivals isn't as hard as it should be. But aside from the touch-based bells and whistles, the iPhone doesn't offer a massive leap forward for the iPod family... making it a great, but not remarkable, media player.
Portalhas proven to be a MEGA hit for Half Life creators Valve. The puzzle game, released as part of theOrange Boxlast month, has been the subject of much analysis, from theridiculousto the sublime.Rock, Paper Shotgun (via/.) tracked down the developers for a chat. Top quotes include:At strip clubs, there's a guy whose job is to talk between the strippers. He tries to do a good job and be entertaining and enthusiastic, but everybody's just there for the nakedness. That's a professional writer trick we call called an "analogy". What I really mean is that game writers are the game equivalent of the guy who talks between the nude girls at strip clubs. Nobody cares about what that guy does, and anybody who does care is probably a little maladjusted. So I'd have to say the hardest part of being a game writer is learning all the writing tricks like "analogy".from writerErik WolpawTry to imagine a bunch of engineers inside your brain trying to hook up the pipes, where do they hook up? And eventually you'll see something, like you'll see yourself in a portal, or you'll see some momentum, and all of a sudden, we hooked it up. I think in Portal we're much more deliberate about setting up those set pieces that let people understand what's happening.co-lead Jeep BarrettThank goodness for simple puzzle games, reminding us exactly what fun can be.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Amazing, the internet. You can feed a phrase in one of the major world languages into a translation site like Babel Fish (babelfish.com), and out it will come another. Type, for example, "internet translation sites like Babel Fish are more trouble than they're worth", click the "English-to-French" button, and you get "les emplacements de traduction d'internet comme des poissons de Babel sont plus d'ennui que la valeur de they're". Put back into English, that yields "the sites of d'internet translation as of fish of Babel are more d'ennui that the value of they're", which, you will agree, is about as close to the original as to make no meaningful difference.So when indignant officials at the Dutch foreign ministry received an email from a group of Israeli journalists that began, "Helloh bud, enclosed five of the questions in honor of the foreign minister: The mother your visit in Israel is a sleep to the favor or to the bed your mind on the conflict are Israeli Palestinian," they might perhaps have guessed what had happened.Sadly, they did not. Nor did the follow-up questions ("Why we did not heard on mutual visits of main the states of Israel and Holland, this is in the country of this" and "What in your opinion needs to do opposite the awful the Iranian of Israel") enlighten them. And now, according to the Jerusalem Post, the aforementioned journalists' planned fact-finding trip to the Netherlands as guests of the Dutch government is in jeopardy. "How could this email possibly have been sent?" an anguished Israeli diplomat asked the paper. "These journalists have sparked a major, major incident."Blame Babel Fish, bud: it mistakes the Hebrew word for "if" (ha'im) for the Hebrew word for "mother" (ha'ima), and reckons "the Dome of the Rock" can reasonably be rendered in English as "bandages of the knitted domes". So let that be a lesson to you. Or, as Babel Fish would have it in German, "Lassen Sie so einfach, da&szlig; eine Lektion zu Ihnen seien Sie." Which apparently means: "Leave so simple that a lesson to you are you." Amazing, the internet.&#183;This article was amended on Wednesday November 14 2007. The internet translation site used by the Israeli journalists mentioned above was babelfish.com, not babelfish.yahoo.com. This has been corrected.
Why does everyone want one?If you're asking this question, you undoubtedly haven't had your hands on one. This isn't that unlikely, as - unless you've sampled a model from the US, where they've been on release since June - you won't be able to get your hands on an iPhone in this country until this Friday at 6.02pm. But when and if you do, you'll see why.The iPhone, it so happens, has been known to make grown men weep and sensible women coo like a broody robot. The design is already being hailed "a modern classic" and "iconic". It has much the same aesthetic as the other Apple products; the iPods, Macbook and desktop computers: all rounded corners and sleek silver-and-black modernity, and no thicker than a digestive biscuit. And it's an iPod as well as an iPhone! It can hold up to 2,000 songs.But it's the touch-sensitive screen that makes the phone so special. With no keypad at all, every function is accessed by brushing your fingers lightly against the screen - little pokes to select things, fast strokes to whizz through directories and webpages, little slow movements to search slowly, a pinch to zoom in, a flick to zoom out. It's not only a thing of great beauty, it's a screen that makes you tip your face to heaven and ask that: "If this is what is possible, why doesn't everything do it?"What's the catch?Many little narks have been voiced about the iPhone - the easily-smudged screen, compulsory use of iPod-style headphones (if you're listening to music or using the phone hands free) that still leak music like a colander full of apple juice, and the inbuilt camera, which, at two megapixels is quite a lot less powerful than other camera phones on the market.But the main complaint, the one that's seen even the many dedicated and enthusiastic Apple fans - possibly the only kind of Apple fan there is - up in arms is, in the UK at least, the compulsory O2 contract.Because of the expense of developing and manufacturing the phone, Apple has awarded the network concession for the iPhone to the mobile phone network O2 - meaning that not only will it be the only network that the phones can use, but that in buying an iPhone, you'll have to sign up for an 18-month O2 contract. What does this mean financially? Well, the initial outlay on the phone is already £269 - so add to that an 18-month-long tariff on even the cheapest tariff (a not very cheap £35 a month), and that brings the overall cost of the phone to £899 over the 18-months - a package that would give you 200 minutes and 200 texts each month, along with "unlimited" internet usage. But at some cost.Is there a way to get round the locked-in contract?Since the moment it hit the streets in the US, people have been claiming to have managed to hack the phone and make it work with any phone network (even your existing one). And there are, should you wish to find them, detailed "how to" guides to doing this online. The new UK iPhone contains software that blocks the earlier loopholes, but some smart programmer will most likely find a new way through eventually. This sneaky approach has its risks, however - basically, unlocking a phone in itself is not illegal, but users will lose their warranty and the right to upgrades that might correct any faults or offer improvements. The phone will still cost you £269, so you'd only be saving the contract fee, and if the phone goes wrong, you'll have no recourse to get your money back.The other much-touted possibility is to buy your iPhone in France, where the law states that unlocked versions of every phone have to be made available. However, it's unclear how soon these unlocked phones will be released - it's unlikely that it will be at the same time as the initial French launch of the iPhone on November 29. And even when they are released, the cost of producing the phone will have to be recouped somehow - and if it's not through the contract, it is likely to mean that the price for the phone itself will be set substantially higher.Where's the cheapest place to buy one?At the moment of course, the only place to buy one for any money at all is in the US - until Friday when, if you're dutifully queuing outside a gleaming white shop with a large wad of notes clutched in your sticky little hand, you might be able to get one.But a couple of months ago, a report from the Commonwealth Bank in Australia was released which had used the price of the iPod Nano to compare the current financial climate, global currencies and gadgetary prices in 55 countries. Its survey showed that the most expensive place to buy the device was in Brazil, where it cost the equivalent of about £177.50, whereas exactly the same music player would have cost a much more tiny and cute and nano-ish £71 in Hong Kong, even cheaper (though only by a few pennies) than in the US.Therefore, if the phone follows the same trend and you're really very, very keen to buy one cheaply, it's possibly best to think of moving to Hong Kong. Obviously it's probably more expensive to live there alone than with others, so you might want to hook up with some other bargainsniffers, and perhaps rent together. Or just move your entire family over there. Conversely, though the phone is maybe much more expensive in Brazil, the cost of living is cheaper, so may save you money in the long run. Although you will have to learn Portuguese.Should I just wait for iPhone Nano to be released?What iPhone Nano? Or that's the official line, anyway.While the big flurry at the moment is all about the launch of the iPhone, there are consistent rumours that the iPhone Nano can't be far behind. It seems a well-calculated guess, based on the company's previous business model of popping out a beautiful gadget and then pushing cheaper and successively dinkier ones behind it, like a set of technologically-pleasing Russian dolls. But as yet, there has been no official confirmation of the timescale until the next one.So you could just wait, yes, of course you could. You could also just buy a cheaper iPod Touch music player and pretend to talk into it instead. But nothing's going to escape the fact that even if you're sensible and decide to wait, at least one annoying person you know will have walked away with that shiny box at 6.03 on Friday night. And you will be very, very jealous
Game design guruErnest Adamshas written an extensive article fornext-gen.bizgiving away the secrets of his trade. He's compiled the 50 greatest game design innovations into one place, and glancing through them, each of these has become an important part of contemporary successful interactive entertainment products. Amongst the nuggets:Exploration Avatars with their own personalities Mod support Interactive drama Reversible time Mini-games Specialized I/O devices for music (not counting MIDI keyboards) Reconfigurable controls Context-sensitive cameraBeautifully summarised. Well worth a read.
Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg launched Facebook's social advertising system in New York yesterday, and it has nothing to do with banner ads, or text ads. It is, rather, a clever way to capitalise on the rise of fansumers: the sort of people who buy products as a way of making statements about themselves and their aspirations: in other words, it's the off-the-shelf lifestyle business. (Usually, the "statement" is that they have more money than sense.)To give an example, SugarWater will be able to set up a SugarWater profile page, which they can't correctly do at the moment. People who love SugarWater will then be able to "friend" SugarWater, making their allegiance plain to all their friends. The community of SugarWater fans will be able to reinforce one another's judgement about the superiority of SugarWater over the rival WaterSugar product, from which it is otherwise indistinguishable.Since this fits the modus operandi of lifestyle marketing, it should do well.TechCrunchblogged the event, and says:Facebook is announcing three things: Social Ads (ads targeted based on member profile data and spread virally), Beacon (a way for Facebook members to declare themselves fans of a brand on other sites and send those endorsements to their feeds), and Insight (marketing data that goes deep into social demographics and pyschographics which Facebook will provide to advertisers in an aggregated, anonymous way). These three things together make up Facebook Ads. Here are the press releases forFacebook Ads,Project Beacon, and itslaunch partners.Web Strategyhas a good summary of both the MySpace and Facebook announcements, andA likely scenariofor the Facebook system:Shauna, who enjoys Revlon products, indicates she's a fan of the brand and becomes a Fan-Sumer. Marketers at Revlon can then purchase SocialAds, which will then display on Shauna's newsfeed or on ads on her profile. If Shauna purchases Revlon makeup from Amazon, her newsfeed could indicate an eCommerce links recommending it to her 100 trusted friends, resulting in further sales.Welcome to Fanbook? Well, as Zuckerberg points out, it's a free ad-supported service. It has to get a payback some time....
A blog postyesterdayreferred to an Industry Canada paper by Birgitte Andersen and Marion Frenz from Birkbeck College in London which appeared to claim the reverse. In a doubting comment, I mentionedStan Liebowitz, an expert from the University of Texas at Dallas. And having read his quick take on the topic, I'm now pretty sure that claim is wrong.The Canada paper has a major problem, which is that it isn't consistent. It suggests file-sharing increases CD sales ("We estimate that the effect of one additional P2P download per month is to increase music purchasing by 0.44 CDs per year") but it also admits it can find no such effect. The quote in Bobbie's post says:We are unable to discover any direct relationship between P2P file-sharing and CD purchases in Canada... That is, we find no direct evidence to suggest that the net effect of P2P file-sharing on CD purchasing is either positive or negative for Canada as a whole.This is ridiculous. If P2P file-sharing actually increases CD sales then CD sales should have gone up over the past few years. They have not. They have gone down.Liebowitz points out that it's a mistake to draw conclusions only from file-sharers and puts in some simple numbers to show why. In layman's terms (ie mine, not Liebowitz's), heavy file-sharers buy more CDs because they are more interested in music. People who don't care as much about music (which is most people) do less file-sharing, and they also buy fewer CDs.It's not cause and effect. As Liebowitz says: "the results are entirely determined by the simultaneity of degree of music interest and music consumption, whether purchased or downloaded."For a proper explanation and the correlations, go toLiebowitz's siteand scroll down to the bold subheading:Focusing on just filesharers.Finally, a tip of the hat to Bobbie. In his intro to his post, he says: "A Canadian government study by two London researchers suggests that filesharers may buy more CDs than the average Joe." That is exactly right. But they may also buy fewer CDs than they would if they couldn't download them for nothing.
One of the iPhone's plays is that it's great for browsing the web: Apple has made much of talk of the handset as a "breakthrough internet device".Having used a number of other Wi-Fi enabled handsets, it's true that the  iPhone beats them hands down for simplicity. Finding a wireless network doesn't take an ounce of effort – it's automatic – and once you're logged on to a network, you should never have to do it again. I surfed without any difficulty at home and in the office, as well as in coffee shops, pubs and simply walking down the street.The trade-off of having to use Wi-Fi instead of 3G (which isn't supported by the iPhone) is made a little easier if you spend a lot of time near a hotspot operated by The Cloud, the wireless provider that has struck a deal with Apple and O2 to offer unlimited access to any iPhone customer. Most of us, however, will use the wireless access in a more limited way.Still, it's surprisingly good on battery life: even with heavy browsing, listening to music and making calls, the phone managed to come through the test period on just a few charges and without dying once. Here Apple has the chance to benefit from harnessing iPod behaviour such as the nightly docking ritual.Once you're logged on,  you'll want to take a trip around the web. The on-board browser, Safari, renders sites clearly and relatively quickly. Gone are the days of Wap: instead we have something that tries, not entirely successfully, to bridge the gap between desktop web browsing and small screen surfing.When it works, pages look beautiful: double tap to zoom in (the phone smartly understands CSS and fills your screen with the contents of a column), or use the now-famous pinching technique to pick your spot. You can even flip the phone onto its side to turn the web around for a landscape format - but it can't get away from the fact that sometimes looking at a big web page on this screen can be a disconcerting experience, like turning up to a Victorian circus to see a homunculus of the internet.Little additions such as very straightforward bookmarking and tabs are the sort of thing you struggle to find on other phones, and you can share links via email with a couple of clicks.Some of the other web services offered on the phone are also intriguing: Google Maps, for example, could be a clincher for road warriors. Clunkier flavours are available on other devices, but the iPhone variety offers a neat and swift service for maps and directions.Other web widgets turn out to be more of a mixed bag, however. The YouTube video viewer is OK - if you're into watching outtakes and dodgy TV rips. For example - top of the charts at the time of writing was a one-minute video of a laughing baby. The iTunes Wi-Fi store works perfectly well – and integrates nicely with your desktop computer - but it doesn't yet deliver podcasts to you, which would have been a useful stopgap solution for iPhone radio.The lack of rabid small investors in the UK, meanwhile, means it's hard to imagine many Brits using the stock market viewer (conveniently pre-loaded to show you Apple's ever-increasing share price). Coupled with the Google Maps logo – which carries an American-style road sign – it feels as if a bit more time thinking about the needs of the locals would have been well spent.This is the area of embedded applications is where the iPhone has room to stretch its legs, and where hackers have been enjoying themselves. Unfortunately Apple has kept things locked down for the British model: there's still no support for Flash, and everything has to happen through the browser itself. When the iPhone launched initially, it spoke in mealy-mouthed terms about Safari as the interface for applications – that roughly translates as "build web pages if you want to design for the iPhone". And although Apple has announced it will be releasing a development kit for programmers in January, it also feels like double talk.There are some intriguing possibilities for the future, though. Simply having integrated Wi-Fi offers a number of options itself – such as voice over internet calling, ala Skype, or perhaps internet radio or TV.For now, however, those outside a Wi-Fi zone – or in parts of Britain where hotspot density is much lower than in the middle of our major cities - are restricted to using O2's network.That includes the now-infamous Edge standard, a sub-3G speed network that's not heavily used by British customers. O2 is spending lavishly on updating its network to incorporate Edge, which Apple says is the best trade-off between and speed and battery life. In fairness, where Edge is available it does offer faster downloads – never snappy, but sometimes quick enough.However the breadth of delivery remains too limited, and I found plenty of black spots around the country where getting any sort of O2 signal – let alone an Edge one – was an impossible task.It's a bitter pill to swallow, but until somebody hacks the latest software update, there's little option.
As we take another look back in the dim and distant past of the Guardian's technology coverage, things are looking interesting. They aren't, however, looking that dim or that distant, because we're only going back 10 years.Back then the web was still a wee baby, Tony Blair was still just a prime ministerial noob, and high speed internet was... well,let me show you:High-speed surfing on the Internet may soon be available at much lower cost thanks to new technology from BT. ... Home Highway will allow customers to view goods for sale on the computer screen and phone up to order them, or play Internet -based games while talking to other players. At present, most computer users surf the net using their existing analogue phone line, which is slow and hampered by noise on the line. The only alternative is an expensive digital ISDN line.At it's best - if I remember correctly - the best service Home Highway offered was 128Kbps. A decade later, many of us are using lines in excess of 10Mbps (quite a bit faster) - it all seemed inhumanly fast to me back then. I wonder how fast we'll be going by 2017.
Google opened a new front in its global media empire last night after finally confirming plans to enter the mobile phone industry.The company is introducing a new mobile system called Android, which it hopes will bring internet access to the masses - and help it put more advertising directly on to customers' phones.Google chief executive, Eric Schmidt, described Android as a toolkit which will encourage people to use the internet on their phones. At present, specialised engineering is required to get Google software on to handsets.Increasing the amount of time people spend surfing the internet on their phones would also let Google harvest information and display advertisements direct to mobile phone users just as it does to people on their home computers, said Andy Rubin, the company's director of mobile."We currently put ads on phones via the web browser," he said. "Part of this is that it makes it so that there's really no difference between browsing on your phone or on a computer."Android - which will start appearing on phones next year - has support from more than 30 companies, including  networks such as T-Mobile and handset makers such as Motorola.Some experts had previously speculated that Google was planning to manufacture its own mobile phones in a similar vein to iPod maker Apple, whose iPhone handset launches in the UK this Friday.But Mr Schmidt said he only intended to offer new software for mobile phones - not the handsets themselves - bringing to an end months of intrigue surrounding the project, which is thought to have heavily involved staff from the company's British offices. "It's incredibly important to say this is not the announcement of the Google phone," he said.Moving into the phone market could prove to be a money-spinner for the Californian company, allowing it to get a foothold in one of the world's fastest-growing industries.Nokia, the market-leading mobile phone maker, sold more than 100m  handsets alone in the last three months, while network operators such as Vodafone remain some of the largest companies around the globe.The move underlines Google's expanding influence over people's lives as more information and money moves online.The internet giant - which was founded by university room-mates Larry Page and Sergey Brin in 1998 - is now worth in excess of $225bn (&pound;108bn), making it the fifth largest company in America. Thanks in large part to its ability to display advertising on its search engine pages, Google has built a multibillion dollar business and outpaced other internet giants including Microsoft, Yahoo! and AOL.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Stuck for something to do over the next few days? Get yourself over to Norwich where the city's animation festival, now re-namedAurora, is taking place from tomorrow til Saturday.Along with tons of cutting edge traditional and CGI animation, the event features a series of panel discussions based around the theme of 'Possible Worlds', defined in the press release as, "environments shaped by experience and emotion rather than physical phenomena alone." One discussion that should interest Gamesblog readers isInteractive Worlds, which looks into videogame environments, specifically how they represent heightened versions of the real world, and asks whether or not they are essentially utopian of apocalyptic.One of the panelists is Tanya Krzywinska, a lecturer in Film at Brunel University who also studies and writes about games - I interviewed her for Edge a few years ago and she's certainly worth listening to. Also at the event are 'software artist-collective', Igloo (more infohere), who've devised an installation named SwanQuake (pictured), fusing computer gaming imagery with, yes, ballet. It's all about mash-ups on the blog today.You should also check out the ZX Spectrum Orchestra, two blokes named Clive (naturally) who used salvaged Speccies to make 'sublime music'. They're playing at the Norwich Arts Centre tomorrow night (morehere).A full festival pass is £35 while single events cost from £4. You can download the festival diaryhere.
Unfortunately I couldn't be in this week for our interview withSteven Pinkeron the latest instalment of our Science Weekly podcast - but, like you, I can enjoy his ideas about how our use of language reflects what's going on inside us.Prepare the swear box!We also talk ethics, pseudoscience and music from Science Weekly troubadourJonny Berliner.Click hereto listen straight away, or head over to theScience blogfor more information and access to our extended interview with Pinker.
Friends back in the UK collar me on an almost daily basis to ask why mobile phones in Japan are so much better than those in their pockets and bags. They're generally deflated to hear that I'm actually not all that impressed with the gadgetry in phones here in Tokyo.Perhaps there's something about this post-iPhone age that makes society crave more mobile fun, but there is still one sop to offer the techno thrill seekers - and it's a cracker by the name of RFID.Radio Frequency Identification allows you to put tiny computerised tags inside other objects - there's nothing about it (just think of near-field communications and all the other short-range wireless technologies that are in everything from Oyster Cards to recent passports)... but it's the stunningly rapid spread of the technology in Japan that makes a difference.Currently, the RFID tags embedded in about 50 per cent of all new mobile phones can be used as electronic cash for buying newspapers and milk in corner shops; as credit cards for paying for larger-ticket items; as pre-paid tickets or season passes for travelling on trains and buses across Japan; or as storage media for receiving discount coupons from restaurants and collecting a bewildering range of in-store cash-back-style points.It's fitting that, since Japan's love affair with RFID began in 2001 with ticketless travel from major Tokyo rail operator JR East, the same company is behind the next step in the wireless revolution.Working withMitsubishi Electric, JR East is developing an RFID system that delivers journey information to the phones of customers already inside its trains. Should they wish to, passengers can hold an IC-equipped handset near one of the special terminals mounted in every carriage to receive detailed instructions on where to change trains to reach their destinations, and plenty more.When the system comes into service in the next three years, it will also deliver news of delays, possible quicker routes and even directions to the nearest station exits for specific street-level destinations. Naturally, there's also scope for a little covert advertising - but Japanese phone users have long been accustomed to that.Wiimote possibility?Aside from hardcore journey planning, another activity popular on Japanese trains is mobile gaming - with downloadable phone games big with adults, and Nintendo's DS Lite almost part of the school uniform for kids.But considering Nintendo's concurrent runaway success in the home console market, some recent speculation over a gloomy future for its Wii games machine proved a little surprising.According to analysts quoted in Japanese business newspaper theNihon Keizai Shimbun, the Wii - which has sold more than 3m units in just over a year - is set for a sales nosedive because of (rather than in spite of) Nintendo's marketing genius.The paper reports that software houses are tired of seeing Nintendo clean up on both the hardware and games software front, and are likely to switch focus to rival consoles - notably Sony's PlayStation 3.As unlikely as the gloomy forecasts seem, it's worth noting that in 2006 only one of the 10 biggest-selling Wii games was not made by Nintendo. Even that title - Square Enix's Dragon Quest Sword - was considered a box office turkey after falling far short of predicted receipts.Throw falling Japanese Wii sales in both August and September alongside uncertainty among developers and it's easy to see how the Wii could be a victim of Sony's recent aggressive PS3 price cuts.Sunny sideA quick peek into Japan's R&amp;D labs has revealed an old mineral purification technique that is being resurrected to create a next-generation solar cell known as the Sphelar.Kyoto company Kyosemi has used a long-known fact – that dropping small amounts of molten silicon from a 14m tower creates tiny pellets of ultra-pure silicon - todevelop solar cellsmeasuring just 1mm in diameter. These are then connected together to function as light traps.While a solar cell that size is useless on its own, Kyosemi has succeeded in combining hundreds of them into balls that - unlike flat solar panels - can absorb light from any direction, making them many times more efficient than traditional construction methods.With lower and greener production overheads and the ability to embed the Sphelar cells in glass to produce energy-gathering windows, the future's bright for Kyosemi and, potentially, our homes one day.
"I had just got back from a party where the concept of a Pac-Man + Zork hybrid came up as a joke. So, being 2am with a little alcohol in my system, I thought it'd be funny to code it up..."And thus began,Pac-Txt, a browser-based text adventure, based around Namco's seminal pill-munching coin-op. The author has since programmed some 'crappy AI' for the ghosts and included some simple graphics. Having already beenfeatured on CNET, the site could well be attracting a lot more traffic than the creator expected - which will probably mean we can expect more drunken retro mash-ups in the future. Guantlet? Too obvious. How about Donkey Kong?Actually, I think any of us could knock up an Asteroids adventure in BASIC. Anyone fancy giving it a go today?
Like Keith I've beenenjoying Call of Duty 4- it's a fantastic game - but I've been spending more time on the single player mode. Don't get me wrong, the online stuff is hugely entertaining, with the RPG-lite elements really dragging you back in for one more go. But the majority of people who buy COD will be playing it offline only. And the good news for them is that the single player campaign is right up there with the best. The24-stylestory and sense of place is spot on, as is the feeling of being part of a team. And those trademark Call of Duty moments - crouching by a wall feeling helpless while bullets ping around and your comrades shout orders - are more intense than ever. Oh and the Brits play a pivotal role in the game, which is nice, even if the "cockney" actors sound like extras from The Bill.The game rarely lets up but some nice changes of pace ratchet up the tension. One level - I won't spoil it - is stealth based and is quite frankly terrifying. But what about the supposed "short" length of the game? It took me around 8 hours to complete on normal settings and experienced players will probably knock an hour or two off that. But you know what - I loved every minute. I'd much rather have 8 hours of full on exhilaration than a drawn out 20. And that's without the multiplayer.The only real issue is one of realism. The move to modern day and a top-notch graphics engine makes COD4 uncomfortably realistic. Listening to your US co-pilot congratulate you as you mow down a bunch of assailants is surprisingly jarring. Sure it's "just a game" - and the plot does help justify your actions - but gunning down enemies in the Middle East feels more political than shooting Nazis ever did. But this aside Call of Duty 4 is a cracker and yet another must-have in what is turning out to be a very expensive 2007.
It may not be able to read an encyclopedia in seconds like Johnny 5 in Short Circuit, or have the emotional neuroses of C-3PO from Star Wars but a new robot may be able to teach children about social interaction, according to US scientists.The childlike automatons could become a feature in nursery schools after researchers found that toddlers soon learn to regard them as human.It is thought the robots could enrich the classroom environment by demonstrating social skills and good behaviour. Scientists studied how children aged between 10 months and two years played with the "social robot" when left in the same room.The Japanese-built prototype robot, QRIO, can interact with humans thanks to an array of mechanical and computational skills which enable it to walk, sit, stand, move its arms, turn its head, dance and giggle.Scientists found that children's social contact with the robot increased over time and they found the machine more interesting when it behaved in a "human" interactive way than when it was programmed to dance randomly. At first, the children touched the robot on its face and head, but after time they touched only its hand and arms, mimicking the behaviour of children with other humans.Scientists conducted 45 study sessions with the robot over five months. By the end of the study the children were treating the robot like a friend rather than a toy.Some children cried when the robot fell over and tried helping it to stand up, even when told by their teachers to leave it alone. Others covered it with a blanket and said "night-night" when it lay down to sleep, said the researchers in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.The scientists, led by Dr Fumihide Tanaka, from the University of California, San Diego, wrote: "Based on the lessons learned with this project, we are now developing robots that interact autonomously with the children ... for weeks at a time." The robots were being designed to help in the classroom in consultation with teachers, parents and children, said the scientists.
You wonder when, precisely, Yuri Odehnal began to question the technology. The Czech lorry driver was en route to collect a consignment of televisions in his 40-tonne wagon, which measures a handsome 50ft long and 8ft wide, when the satellite navigation system steered him up a lane close to Ivybridge in Devon.As he attempted to confirm with a passer-by that the route was too narrow, his fledgling English failed him, and he soon found himself thoroughly stuck. Odehnal had to live inside the lorry for three whole days, surviving on food brought by locals, until the owners procured a tractor to tow the wagon out.Odehnal was not the first driver to find himself led astray by satnav. In March 2006, satellite navigation directed an articulated lorry over the narrow Morley Bridge on the A383 near Newton Abbot in Devon. Wedged between the bridge's walls for four hours, the lorry was eventually moved by axing several hedges and trees.Later that same year a coach became lodged in Rosemary Lane in Stroat, Gloucestershire, and was forced to drive into fields to escape. The event prompted  local residents to appeal to satnav makers to remove the lane from their recommended route.Earlier this year, it took seven hours and the knocking down of  a stone wall to free a roadworks dodging lorry that finally came to grief down an increasingly narrow lane near Abergwyngregyn in Gwynedd. Just half an hour later, a car towing a trailer became wedged in exactly the same spot. We're sure it could happen to anyone, but for those about to embark upon a journey in an articulated lorry, here's a simple rule of thumb: there are times for your new-fangled satellite navigation, and then there are times for good old-fashioned common sense.
Bobbie Johnson has already reported the story on the Technology site (Google reveals mobile plans), but theOfficial Google Blogsort of apologises for not announcing a Gphone. Instead it seems to have announced something like Symbian, Mobile Linux, or even Microsoft's Windows Mobile (where you can get the source code, change it and ship changes). Except it's "truly open". It says:Despite all of the very interesting speculation over the last few months, we're not announcing a Gphone. However, we think what we are announcing -- theOpen Handset Allianceand Android -- is more significant and ambitious than a single phone. In fact, through the joint efforts of the members of the Open Handset Alliance, we hope Android will be the foundation for many new phones and will create an entirely new mobile experience for users, with new applications and new capabilities we can't imagine today.Android is the first truly open and comprehensive platform for mobile devices. It includes an operating system, user-interface and applications -- all of the software to run a mobile phone, but without the proprietary obstacles that have hindered mobile innovation.There's apress releasethat also has a bullshit score near the top of the scale, that says:The Android platform is ... a fully integrated mobile "software stack" that consists of an operating system, middleware, user-friendly interface and applications. The Android platform will be made available under one of the most progressive, developer-friendly open-source licenses, which gives mobile operators and device manufacturers significant freedom and flexibility to design products.The system has an impressive list of backers but it doesn't seem to include some important players such as Nokia, Sony Ericsson and Microsoft.Engadget providedLive coverage of Google's Android Gphone mobile OS announcement. There are also stories atThe New York Times,The Wall Street Journal,Forbes, theBBCand probably every other news site.Bottom line: Google is trying to use its market power to get a subsection of the mobile phone industry to line up behind a Google-sponsored Linux-based platform, so they can all produce the same sort of phone only cheaper. Presumably they'll all be running Google apps, so will these be open source and free as well?
Google today took another step in its quest to become the most powerful company in the world as it finally confirmed plans to enter the mobile phone industry.The company is introducing a new mobile system called Android, which it hopes will bring internet access to the masses – and help it sell more advertising.Announcing the news, the Google chief executive, Eric Schmidt, said Android was a toolkit that would encourage people to use the internet on their phones and would bridge the conflict between different incompatible handsets."The fundamental problem with handsets today is that they don't have full power internet browsers – we have to do specialised engineering to get our software on those devices," he said. "This will give wireless operators and phone manufacturers the ability to create new things."Increasing the amount of time people spend surfing the internet on their phones would also let Google harvest information and display advertisements direct to mobile phones users just as it does on home computers, said Andy Rubin, the company's director of mobile."We currently put ads on phones via the web browser," he said. "Part of this is that it makes it so that there's really no difference between browsing on your phone or on a computer. This enables Google's business, but you won't see a completely advertising-driven cellphone for a while yet."Android – which will starting appearing on phones next year - has support from more than 30 companies, including mobile phone networks such as T-Mobile and handset makers such as Motorola and South Korea's HTC.Some experts had previously speculated that Google was planning to manufacture its own mobile phones in a similar vein to Apple, whose iPhone device is set to launch in the UK on Friday.But Mr Schmidt said he only intended to offer new software for mobile phones – not the handsets themselves - bringing to an end months of intrigue around the project, which is thought to have heavily involved staff from the company's British offices."It's incredibly important to say this is not the announcement of the Google Phone," he said.Moving into the phone market could prove to be a money-spinner for the Californian company, allowing it to get a foothold in one of the world's fastest-growing industries. Nokia, the market-leading mobile phone maker, sold more than 100m handsets in the last three months, while network operators such as Vodafone remain some of the largest companies around the globe.The move underlines Google's expanding influence over our lives as more information and money moves online. The internet giant - which was founded by university roommates Larry Page and Sergey Brin in 1998 - is now worth in excess of $225bn (£108bn), making it the fifth largest company in America.Thanks in large part to its ability to display advertising on its search engine pages, Google has built a multibillion-dollar business and outpaced other internet giants including Microsoft, Yahoo and AOL.Google's plans for future products and services are wide-ranging, spanning office software, web monitoring and other advertising businesses. It is known to be trialling a system for monitoring television viewing, and last year bought the radio advertising company dMarc, with the aim of delivering adverts across a broad range of media."This is a shot that is going to be heard around the world, but it's just the first shot in what is going to be a very protracted battle in the next frontier of the mobile web," said Michael Gartenberg, a technology analyst with Jupiter Research.Meanwhile, Google is lobbying to buy its own space on the US airwaves in what is seen as a threat to traditional phone companies and internet providers. By purchasing a slot on the mobile phone spectrum, Google could sidestep the telecommunications networks entirely and provide a series of mobile services directly to the public.The announcement of Android comes days before Apple launches its much-vaunted iPhone handset in the UK. Google denied it was attempting to compete head to head with the iPod maker.Although some Google applications such as internet search and maps come pre-installed on the iPhone, it does not require any Google services in order to run. Mr Schmidt, who is also on the board of Apple, said Android was aiming to work with existing phone companies rather than replace them."It's true that I'm on the board of Apple, but it's also important to state that there are going to be many different sorts of mobile experiences," he said.
You may havereadlast week that hackers have managed to 'uncover' edited footage in the PSP version of Manhunt 2, just days after its US release. In what sounded like a re-run of the Hot Coffee scandal, where hidden sex scenes were located in GTA San Andreas, the coders 'discovered' material which had been disabled rather than removed before release. Would the game lose its Mature rating and be knocked back to the commercially disastrous Adults Only status?It seems not. According to several news sources in the States (seehere, for example), the Entertainment Software Rating Board has released a statement indicating that Manhunt 2 will not need to be re-certified as the content is the product of an illegal hack. It seems that certain scenes which had been blurred out in the retail release have been 'unblurred' by bedroom coders - so effectively this is new content added by outside sources. Also, the ESRB was aware of the content when the game was submitted for rating - which was not the case with the Hot Coffee sex scenes. Finally, the modified content requires 'unauthorized versions of software and/or hardware' - in other words a hacked version of the game running on a hacked PSP.It's interesting, though, that Rockstar now finds itself in this position. Its releases have become hacker challenges, partly because the content appeals to the hacker demographic and partly through the carrot dangled in front of the hacker community by the Hot Coffee mishap. Through censorship and infiltration the company continues to reap what it has sown via the manipulation of controversy and notoriety. It is still not clear whether Manhunt 2 will suffer or profit as a result. At the moment, the former is more likely - the hype is fading and so many great games have been released since the title's initial burst of publicity gamers might not care anymore.
MySpace is to launch a big push for its advertising offering, including plans for a DIY service that will rival Google's AdSense system.The News Corporation-owned social networking website is also opening up an extensive targeting trial to new brands in the US.MySpace has been running a targeted trial since July, which categorises users according to the information on their profiles and assigns advertising accordingly.Advertisers can now use Hypertargeting by MySpace to direct their ads to more than 100 groups and sub-groups of MySpace users including gaming, sports, travel, consumer electronics and music.MySpace has also announced plans for a self-serve advertising system that would allow users to design, launch and analyse their own advertising campaigns on the site.Travis Katz, the MySpace international managing director, admitted that the system is based on the same concept as Google's lucrative AdSense system, but said it is still a different product."AdSense was the first targeted advertising product that was open to everyone, and tapped the long tail," Mr Katz added."It showed that you don't have to be a huge company to buy media space, you could be a small start-up, a pizza place or a band. We're taking the same concept but it's not just text based."Launching early next year, SelfServe by MySpace will allow advertisers to create ads using their own logos, graphics and images, and will provide a built-in analytics system to measure the performance of the ad.Meanwhile, more than 50 advertisers have signed up the first phase of the Hypertargeting by MySpace platform including Ford, Toyota and Procter &amp; Gamble. The platform is being rolled out in the US today and will be extended to English-speaking territories in January.MySpace claims that brands involved in the targeted advertising trial have seen response rates increase by 300% for some campaigns.Mr Katz said the company has had more than 100 people working on the system for the past year, which was now "delivering the promise"."It's a very sophisticated technical engine that looks at all the publicly available data on users, groups and the interests of their friends," he added."For advertisers, it's [delivering on] the promise that internet advertising has always been, and users, who have been involved in the testing, like targeted advertising better than generic ads. They don't like untargeted ads because they feel more intrusive, whereas if ads are relevant and of interest to them they enjoy them."The targeting of advertising on social networks has caused concern among some users, who do not want their personal data used by advertisers and are concerned about privacy.Mr Katz said he believed only a small number of people are concerned about targeted ads, and added the system will allow users to opt out.MySpace's UK office now has more than 130 staff but, Mr Katz said, the company is "hiring so fast I can't keep count".&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Activision made my weekend by sending me an Xbox 360 copy of Call of Duty 4, which I played for most of Saturday night and a lot more of Sunday morning than was sensible for the father of a two-year-old who's started getting up at 5.45am every day. No doubt you've seen some of the rave reviews (full marks in the US Official Xbox and UK Official PS3 magazines) and may even have sampled the beta test. Even if you haven't, I advise you to buy this game when it hits the shelves on Friday and then cancel whatever you have planned for next weekend. As a lesson in multiplayer level design, CoD 4 is quite possibly peerless.Something I enjoyed about the three environments in the beta test was that almost every obvious sniping position could be reached from two different entrances, meaning it was more-or-less impossible to park yourself in a safe place and view the game through a gun scope without fear of being snuck up on. This has carried through to the full game. Here, even the most elevated of juicy snipe points are visible from other similarly covered areas so you get these little snipe the sniper sub-plots developing through each round. However, I did notice that the denser urban locales definitely do offer more blind alleys and cubby holes at ground level, so determined campers can usually find somewhere to dig in and wait for victims. Each to his own, I suppose.Balance was always the key concern with CoD4, given its intriguing rank-up system which rewards experience points with special skills (or 'perks') and more advanced weaponry. However, even as a lowly private you can match veterans by taking your time, learning the environments, watching the radar and communicating with your team. It's not a slaughter of the newcomers out there. If you've played a team-based FPS before, you'll be okay.Oh and the visuals are stunning - not just for effects or basic aesthetic competence, but for the sense of place. Thedetail. Pulverised low-rise buildings, bullet-riddled vehicles burnt out and rusting in the sun, rubbish swirling through deserted streets like tumbleweed. CoD4 is a patchwork of every nightmare battlezone to hit our screens for the last twenty years. In its approximation of war-battered streets, all that's missing is haunted-eyed kids playing amid the soldiers.There's been controversy in the States surrounding the game's single player campaign mode which, according to the Official Xbox Magazine review, takes just 4-6 hours to complete. Does that bother you? Personally, I'm not sure. I know I'm more interested in the multiplayer, plus, as a dad with limited time available for 'recreational gaming' (you know, as opposed to the stuff I'm paid to play), I'm not as interested in 50-hour slogs. I'm still only halfway through GRAW for god's sake, and now have GRAW 2 and Bioshock lined up behind it.Anyway, buy it. It's just wonderful to see a game so thoughtfully designed by a developer (Infinity Ward, of course) clearly loving its work and the genre it operates in.
Over the years we've heard plenty from both sides of the filesharing lobby - those against and those for.Both sides have used a variety of weapons, not least statistical analysis and research. Now you can pick and choose the studies you want (numbers can say pretty much anything) but the pro-filesharing lobby has had to rely on one major study for most of its ammunition - theOberholzer-Strumpfdocuments of 2004 (there's aPDF here.Wewrote about that study, but now it's been backed up by another - this time commissioned by the Canadian government.The new review - which was conducted by Birgitte Andersen and Marion Frenz, two researchers based at Birkbeck College in London - isavailable online... and it comes up with some interesting results:We are unable to discover any direct relationship between P2P file-sharing and CD purchases in Canada... That is, we find no direct evidence to suggest that the net effect of P2P file-sharing on CD purchasing is either positive or negative for Canada as a whole.However, our analysis of the Canadian P2P file-sharing subpopulation suggests that there is a strong positive relationship between P2P file-sharing and CD purchasing. That is, among Canadians actually engaged in it, P2P file-sharing increases CD purchasing.A couple of Canadian commentators,Michael GeistandMathew Ingram, chipped in over the weekend with their thoughts.I can honestly say that in the years since Napster, I've enjoyed a musical renaissance - listening to (and cruciallybuying) more music across more genres than ever. But are people like me mainstream examples, or just edge cases?
Justscreen grabsup to 2005, so you can see how they have changed....
The surprising thing aboutBlogrunneris that it's not more popular. Perhaps it should have been called Newsrunner, because that's what it does. It aggregates news stories, links them with blog posts and displays them in a very accessible way.On November 1, The New York Times (which owns the service) called Blogrunner "the robot in the newsroom". Like Google News, it uses automated software to harvest news stories from the web.Unlike Google News, it also collects related news, which it lists under "Who's Blogging about this Article", and so on.The advantages don't stop there. Blogrunner sorts content into more topics than Google News, and it usually surfaces the latest news quicker.Its main subject areas are things like Politics, Technology, Media, Business, Health, Movies, Books and so on. Go to the All Topics list, however, and there are some less obvious ones, such as Abortion, Digital Rights, Gay Marriage and iPhone.Some topics are people, such as Benedict XVI, Harry Potter, Paris Hilton and Rupert Murdoch.And while Google News seems to be compiled solely by software robots, Blogrunner has a slightly more human touch.Blogrunner's sources have been picked by staff of The New York Times, which bought the site in 2005. Further, the paper's human editors can add stories to the list "if they find something interesting and they can take off items when the computer - as computers always do - misunderstands some very human aspect of the English language".According to The New York Times'spress release: "This editing process enables readers to get a thoughtful overview of the day's top print and online coverage, all on one site."It's true that Blogrunner provides plenty of plugs for New York Times stories, but the main Blogrunner pages are kept separate from the version calledThe Annotated New York Times.What's also true is that Blogrunner sends traffic to rivals such as the BBC, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal and Forbes. And it sends traffic to blogs that may not take the same line as the paper, and may indeed disagree with it.Of course, bloggers can reach readers directly, and via other aggregators such as Techmeme. But I think The New York Times deserves some credit for incorporating blog posts into the conversation with mainstream media.Blogrunner itself has had a chequered history. It was founded by Philippe Lourier in 2003, and ran into complaints from bloggers who felt it was intending to make money from their work.On his blog post about Friday's relaunch, Louriercommented: "As it turns out, this is really a beginning. Blogrunner has been around for a while, but it's been largely inactive and abandoned several times for various reasons. I'm now thrilled about the prospect to start a conversation that will help make it better."Lourier created The Annotated New York Times version before The New York Times found and then bought him, instead of trying to crush him. That now looks smart on both sides.
There are two sorts of people in the world: those who have played with an iPhone, and those who haven't. It sounds a bit like a bad joke, but – for now, at least – there's a grain of truth in it.After months of waiting for Apple's flagship to land in the UK, we're finally going to get it this Friday. In the meantime, the hype cycle seems to have gone full circle: first excitement at the US launch, then disappointment with the lack of third-party support, a backlash from some quarters, and finally tentative excitement again.Most of the comments were thrown out by people who fell into the second group (those who hadn't played with an iPhone) and, thanks to Apple's restrictions on mobile networks, none of them came from people who had actually used a fully-functioning iPhone in Britain. But for the past few weeks, however, the Guardian has been testing a British iPhone – with all the bells and whistles on O2's network. So what's the UK iPhone like?For a start, it's pretty familiar. A software update delivers a few minor changes – more international language support, some security fixes and so on – but if you've seen or used an American iPhone, then you know exactly what you're getting. Similarly, anyone who's had their hands on an iPod Touch will also have a good idea of what to expect.For those who have only seen the pictures or been barraged by the advertising, though, it's worth taking a look around.On the outside, there's little debate that the iPhone looks good. It's a typical minimalist gadget, all polished black and silver. It has  just one button on the front, complimented by a volume control and silent mode switch on the side, with a headphone socket and the on/off switch on top.As a phone it's thin enough, but a little longer than desired. It's been sitting in my pocket for the past two weeks, but hasn't yet really become comfortable to carry.You can blame any unwieldiness on the screen, which is about the size of a credit card and one of the crucial weapons in Apple's armoury. That's because multitouch technology is the soul of the iPhone, informing everything you do – and because is it so far superior to anything else on the market right now.Place a digit on the surface and the phone recognises it instantly; stroke a finger sideways and the device responds exactly how you would expect. No fudges or "good enough" answers here: nothing else comes close.The screen itself is bright and crisp, but far from invulnerable to scratches. Although it's more robust than some of the earlier iPod models, it's certainly not tough enough to be treated with a carefree attitude: this is a gadget that demands protection.The touch interface draws you in right from the start, with the "slide to unlock" mechanism that starts you using your iPhone.Steve Jobs calls it three devices in one, and in a sense he's right. Despite the services – phone, internet, iPod – often being interlinked, the different functions of the iPhone feel quite separate, each of them used in a slightly different way.The phone functions are more or less bog standard: call and text. You can use an on-screen keypad to dial numbers, or access the contacts list and use fast fingered scrolling to zip through your numbers with ease. A couple of other little touches make life more bearable too, such as text messages appearing in chat-like conversation format.Elsewhere, if you need to look something else up while on the line, an on-screen button allows you to flip straight back to your conversation – no more accidental hang-ups. Conference calling is easy (you can patch incoming calls straight into your existing one) and "visual voicemail" – where you can zip backwards and forwards inside your messages – is an improvement of kind, not just degree.There are some bizarre omissions that have yet to be fixed – the iPhone has no support for picture messaging, for example, and it still doesn't allow texts to be sent to multiple contacts. The feeling still comes across from time to time that this is a phone built for the American market, or with standards so lofty that it sometimes finds it difficult to remember the basics.On the subject of SMS, it's worth examining the keyboard – one of the iPhone's most controversial elements. Gone is the old number keypad or the Qwerty buttons, ditched in favour of a touch-sensitive onscreen replacement. This has plenty of doubters, and they're not entirely wrong, but Apple has done a lot of work to try and mitigate.It's certainly a league ahead of other devices I've used, where the buttons were nigh on impossible to hit for those who aren't trained marksmen. Typing is helped by the intelligent predictive text and intuitive auto-correct function, and you won't have to spend any dreary afternoons training the dictionary.A few extra additions would have improved life, but remain absent: all punctuation remains on a secondary screen (not even a solitary full stop or comma is close at hand) and the inability to customise the keyboard could prove irritating for those who have peculiar needs.I doubt hardcore BlackBerry addicts will ever achieve the speeds they can manage with a Qwerty keyboard – after all, a good typist can feel when they've made a mistake just from the position of the keys under their fingers – but after a few days of use I was pretty happy with my abilities.In tomorrow's instalment: Using the internet and Wi-Fi
Every week in order to compile the Letters and Blogs, I turn to two blog search engines - presently Technorati and Google Blog Search - to see who has been writing things (nice or nasty, hey, we don't care, it's allconversation, right?) about what we've been writing about.I won't bore you with the details (which involves usingcurlto download the page with the weekly Technology section links, stripping the links to the stories, storing them on a MySQL database on my machine, then recovering them and parsing them to feed to the search engines - hang on, was that detail?). But I think I need some new suggestions for which other blog search engine - or engines - to use.Technorati seems to give a fair spread of results, and isn't too badly polluted withsplogs.For example, here's the generic search forTechnology stories from the Guardian on November 1, which includes those from the paper, web-only, and the print section. It says there are 59 results at present. (Quite a few of those are splogs, but they're easy to recognise.)Google Blog Search though seems to me hopeless. It often gives zero results, when I know there's more than that happening. (Here's thesame search as that above for Technology on Nov 1: 2 - count themtwo- results. That's rubbish. Google Blog Search did have a problem in which it would show you every splog in the world, but now seems to have gone from letting every splog in, to throwing out the baby with the bathwater.)I'm considering IceRocket, which seems to give results that even Technorati misses. (Here's thecomparative search: 23 results.) The ideal would be two search engines whose results cover the lot, while ignoring all the splogs out there.So: do you use blog search engines? Do you recommend any? Which would you suggest, o crowdsourcerors?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Last week I blogged the appearance of a new version ofGoogle's Gmailwhile complaining that I didn't have it. I do now. I noticed immediately because one of my most used addresses stopped working properly. It turns out that Gmail's new Contacts software has a problem with the address that Gmail itself entered for the Guardian's very own Stuart O'Connor.Gmail looks at his valid email address in Contacts and says, in red: "Please enter a valid email address." It refuses to save it.Sending an email, I get the sage advice: "Please make sure that email addresses contain no spaces and exactly one @ sign."It turns out that when I mail Stuart and Bobbie Johnson together, Gmail is throwing in a spare "stua" plucked out of thin air. Maybe it's a random bug from the Ajax code, which is running in thin air. Later, I'll see if it survives a restart....Has anyone else noticed a problem that could be related to having an apostrophe or other less common character in an email address?
It's taken a while but the PS3 finally has a game worth getting excited about. Yup,Ratchet &amp; Clank Future: Tools of Destructionlaunches this week. If you've played any of the previous games in the series you'll know what to expect - platforming, shooting and exploration in a retro sci-fi playground.The series' debut on PS3 adds in a pile of new stuff - including some rather gimmicky usage of the sixaxis controller - but the main "next-gen" update is the graphics. The visuals really are something special and combined with the sheer amount of on-screen action - an early level looks like a day-glo Blade Runner, with all sorts of craft zipping around the sky - make for some serious eye candy. And the game itself does a good job of living up to the looks, although grizzled gaming veterans may find it a little easy. But then this isn't really a game for the hardcore.Compared to the FPS/racer/sports axis that seems to define "next-gen" gaming, the colourful world of R&amp;C is a pleasure to experience. And platformers have gone so far out of fashion that playing one designed for a next-gen console (and adults at that) is a rare treat. Yes you are still shooting things, but this is lighthearted stuff that will appeal to kids as much as 20-somethings.Worth buying a PS3 for then? Potentially, although the 360 is still the best bet if you want to play the largest number of quality games this Christmas. But Ratchet and Clank is a triumph and easily the best PS3 game to date.
Hackers are vowing to unlock the iPhone from the O2 mobile network, just days before it goes on sale in Britain. The £269 touchscreen mobile phone, dubbed "revolutionary" by its maker, Apple, is already one of the most eagerly awaited of gadgets and stores are expecting a shopper frenzy as it goes on sale in the UK this week.Combining the music and video capability of the iPod, with a touch-sensitive screen and wireless internet access, the iPhone was dubbed "invention of the year" by Time magazine last week.The phone has prompted shopper queues in the US this year; British consumers can follow suit this Friday, at precisely 6.02pm, in a clock-watching stunt aimed at promoting Apple's exclusive deal with the British mobile phone network O2.But a cloud looms on the horizon for the two companies, as hackers said yesterday they would make the phone usable by customers of any of Britain's other mobile networks.Apple has been caught in an arms race with hackers since the US launch in June, with programmers trying various ways to unlock the iPhone and break the exclusivity deals with mobile firms, twice succeeding in outsmarting Apple. Software in the UK iPhone locks the handsets into the O2 network but hackers say they will provide a "jailbreak" programme, perhaps within hours of the UK launch.Apple's vice president, Greg Joswiak, said the firm would resist any unlocking of its handsets, confirming comments of the chief executive, Steve Jobs, who said at the launch: "It's a cat and mouse game. People will break in, it's our job to stop them."Despite scepticism from rival firms, who claimed the iPhone was too costly and short on crucial capabilities for European consumers, those involved in the launch are optimistic. Matthew Key, O2's chief executive, thinks 200,000 iPhones will have been sold in the UK by the new year.However, in the US about 250,000 iPhone owners have yet to sign up with the "exclusive" American carrier, AT&amp;T. As this firm pays at least £9 of each monthly iPhone subscription back to Apple, the hackers may have lost it as much as £27m in potential revenue in a year. A similar pattern in the UK could see Mr Jobs lose perhaps £6m just from those buying an iPhone over Christmas. Apple could simultaneously face competition from Google which will announce details of its own gPhone today.
