Paul Barry-Walsh, 42Business:Netstore.Activities:Data warehousing via the internet.Founded:1996.Valued:Business worth estimated &#163;350m, Barry-Walsh's share &#163;87.5m.Starting out:Took sabbatical from computer disaster recovery group Safetynet to set up Netstore, backed by 3i, NatWest and Barclays.Ambition:Gearing up for stock market flotation for European expansion.Spent it?Second home in Spain with proceeds from previous ventures.Education:Degree in economics from Liverpool university.Politics:Apolitical.www.netstore.com
Nick Denton, 33Business:Moreover.com.Activities:Aggregates news sources from 1,500 company websites.Founded:1998.Valued:&#163;6.5m, with backing from investor Richard Tahta, Amazon.co.uk strategic development director, and Christopher Spray of Atlas Venture. Denton is major shareholder.Starting out:Left job as the Financial Times' Silicon Valley reporter.Ambition:"To see Moreover.com headlines on every other website."Spent it?"Too busy concentrating on the business." Recently moved to San Francisco to be nearer his customers. As one of the four founders and "owners" of First Tuesday, he has potentially another &#163;1m.Education:Oxford university, PPE degree.Politics:"Silicon Valley liberal: as in, just let me get on with it."www.moreover.com
Jason Drummond, 30Business:Virtual Internet.Activities:Gets businesses online. Works with FTSE 100 companies.Founded:Set up with &#163;10,000 savings four years ago.Valued:70% stake values him at &#163;40m.Starting out:Ran private companies, mostly in communications and services.Ambition:"To be the dominant player in domain-based services worldwide, to have some fun doing it and make some money."Spent it?Five-bedroom house in Surrey with wife, two kids, Porsche.Education:Burlingtons Danes High School in Shepherds Bush.Politics:Labour.
James Corsellis, 29Business:icollector.Activities:Online auction service.Founded:September 1994.Valued:Capitalised at &#163;60m. Corsellis's stake is around 10%.Starting out:Corsellis and co-founder Simon Montford (who has since left), put in &#163;2,000.Venture capitalists added &#163;250,000.Ambition:Anxious to become a global player as soon as possible. Believes that succeeding on the web is about "having an open mind".Spent it?"Haven't touched it yet." Lives in Notting Hill, sold last car for &#163;250.Education:Failed to finish degrees in medieval literature at the Sorbonne and business studies and French at Oxford Poly. Got a degree in modern history at Queen Mary's, London.Politics:Ambivalent Tory voter, who won't turn to Labour.www.icollector.com
Daniel Gestetner, 28Business:Focus Digital.Activities:Shopping portal, acts as a guide to retail sites.Founded:February 1999.Valuation:"Eight figures."Starting out:Claims to have been the youngest cake buyer Tesco ever had. Got seven figure financing.Ambition:To float next year.Spent it?"We all want a bit of money."Education:Management degree at Manchester university.Politics:Conservative.www.shopguide.co.uk
Carol Dukes, 37Business:Think Natural.com.Activities:Natural health and beauty products.Founded:July 1999.Valued:Company at around &#163;10m.Starting out:With Emap and Carlton, then got &#163;3-5m venture capital.Ambition:"We want to be big."Spent it?"I have no real wealth."Education:Economics at Oxford. MBA at London Business School.Politics:Labour.www.thinknatural.co.uk
Chris Akers, 34Business:Sports internet.Activities:Football-driven sports news, statistics and betting service.Founded:1999.Valued:His stake is worth around &#163;7m. Backers include Rolling Stone Ronnie Wood. Also has shares in Virtual Internet and City Gourmets.Starting out:Investment banker before taking over Leeds United in 1996. Tried to persuade Time Warner to buy Manchester United five years before BSkyB's interest. Left Leeds last year to concentrate on internet.Ambition:"To build high-growth companies that become market leaders in their fields."Spent it?Hires private jet and flies friends to the European Cup Final.Education:Left school at 18.Politics:"Absolutely no interest."www.planetfootball.co.uk
The car marketing people would have us believe they can design cars that will park perfectly alongside their target socio-economic type. Once the cars are up and running though, they often steer straight for the driveways of people who were never supposed to have them. Witness most "off"-roaders - the Discovery, Shogun and Trooper were all badged to inspire rural rutting, but the majority are entrenched in nothing more than soft suburban life.Back in 1996, this seemed to be what was about to happen at Chrysler. The American giant stepped back on to UK soil, promising a high-power coupe-lookalike saloon called the Neon. As its name suggested, the idea was a bit flash. It even had frameless door windows. In America, the car was a big hit among young drivers.So the Neon was sent off, seeking to prove that a saloon car could compete for fresh flesh in the hatchback market. Today, it has sold a reasonable total of 10,000. But who has bought it? Some clues: 70% of the customers bagged the cost-free option of an automatic transmission, 86% of the drivers are married and 79% have no dependent children. Yes, the Neon has become a Meldrew mobile, the average   age of ownership being 53. I don't want to be ageist, but if your driving heydays were behind the wheel of a Cortina or an Austin Princess, you'd think you'd died and gone to heaven. For the price, the Neon was pleasantly appointed and had ABS, air conditioning and two airbags as standard. But against the benchmark of, say, any current Ford, it drove like a dog.So what of Neon 2000, son of Neon? It certainly has impeccable paperwork. For the SE entry-level   car, at &#163;10,995, the revised kit list includes an alarm, a six-speaker stereo and a remote lock blipper, if no ABS. The LX, at &#163;13,495 adds leather, ABS, cruise control and bigger alloy wheels; both models are two-litre cars and the 1.8 option has now been dropped. Both cars, too, look fairly sassy, save for the exhaust tip which dangles like Andy Capp's fag.Get out of a Ford Focus and into a new   Neon, however, and you may soon be reaching frantically for Victor's catchphrase. The seats are big and squishy, like well disciplined beanbags. On the road, the car fidgets and refuses to settle, despite the maker's claim that it is now 26% stiffer and furnished with redesigned struts. The seat will cushion your coccyx from the limitations of the car's ride, but you'll still feel more than a slight measure of vibration and noise, be it road, engine, or queasy companions.Should you have also opted for an automatic model, your lot is sorrier still. Being a three-speed unit, its repertoire is limited to a crude succession of lumpy changes. Floor it at the upper end and, chances are, nothing will happen. And if you're going slow enough to allow for a downshift to second, be warned - it will lunge with all the grace of a shunted Spacehopper.But the Neon is no less dismal than a lot of the mediocrity it seeks to beat, and the yardstick for success is short; if Chrysler sells 3,000 of them in the first year, it will be content.J D Power's index of customer satisfaction ranked the old Neon 28th out of 114 models assessed. This sounds impressive, but bear in mind that the survey depends largely upon the opinion of car owners who are often keen to justify their choice. Bear in mind, too, that the report noted that "rough engines and unacceptable economy colour the Neon's copy book. It is plagued by niggly problems, although the dealers are among the best for low charges and good service."The new Neon may well shine more stongly, but from the driving seat, it's no light fantastic.
Sarah Taylor is a bubbly, attractive young woman. But her eyes tell another story. They are distant, almost dead. They are eyes that have seen something that should never be seen. Sarah Taylor was a learner driver when she accidentally reversed into a lake where she had been picnicking with her friend, Stephanie Greenwood, and Stephanie's seven-year old daughter, Cherrie. All three were in the car. Sarah and Stephanie managed to escape from the submerged car. Cherrie died."I panicked and started to run away from the lake," she says. "I was screaming, not knowing what I was doing. Once I knew she was dead, I started feeling guilty. You go on forever thinking, 'What if...'"3,421 people died on Britain's roads last year. Some were victims of other people's negligence, others victims of their own - but a sizeable number were just in the wrong place at the wrong time. But for every family whose world is shattered by the loss of someone close to them, there is frequently another unrecognised victim: the driver who survived."Extreme trauma leaves a memory trace that is hard to delete," says Oliver James, clinical psychologist and author of Britain on the Couch, "and victims will tend to relive it over and over again. You can't predict exactly how someone will react; a lot will depend on your childhood experiences and on how culpable you are. Death is complicated enough at the best of times; when you're at fault it can be unbearable. One study, conducted in Cambridge, showed that   one third of those who had been convicted of homicide went on to commit suicide."Even when there is no blame attached, the guilt remains, a guilt borne of both the randomness of survival and a feeling that if you'd been going that little bit slower, if you hadn't volunteered to give a friend a lift home, if you'd let someone else drive, if you'd done anything but what you did, another person would still be alive today.20 years ago, Eduardo Gil was involved in a head-on collision on a humped-back bridge near Staines. He was just 21, had newly arrived in this country from the Canary Islands and was working as a delivery driver for a car rental firm based at Heathrow. "My legs were crushed and I was drifting in and out of consciousness. I vaguely remember hearing a paramedic say that the other driver was dead," says Gil, "but it only really registered a week later when a police officer came to interview me in hospital. I threw a complete wobbly when I realised what had happened, especially as the survivors travelling in the dead man's car were in the beds opposite."A court hearing recorded death by misadventure, but even though he was absolved of any blame for the accident he became obsessed with finding out exactly what happened. "I had years and years of sleepless nights, thinking about the man who died, thinking about his wife and children and thinking what I could have done differently," he continues. "I started to film anything to do with roads and cars and eventually became an official photographer for Leicester traffic police, recording   accident scenes. It's been my way of trying to make sense of what happened to me."It has only been in the last couple of years that Gil has been able to shake off his feelings of guilt, and he freely admits that the accident has changed his life profoundly. "I got married shortly after the accident, but was divorced within three years," he says. "I think my wife found it difficult to cope with someone who was severely traumatised."Separation is common among survivors. Most are keen to play down the significance of their accident in the ending of the relationship, but one can't help feeling that this has as much to do with not wanting to acknowledge how much the trauma   has infected every area of their lives as anything else. Having your inner world invaded by guilt-ridden morbid thoughts is bad enough, having your external world ripped apart is just unbearable.In December 1989, John Delmont backed his lorry across a lane near Evesham while manoeuvring it into a parking space. A transit van, carrying three men, crashed into the side. "I rushed to help but there was nothing I could do," he says. "I heard the three men die. It's a sound I hope to never hear again." His solicitor would not allow him to apologise in court to the victims' families, something that still upsets him to this day, and for a year or so afterwards he got palpitations every time he had to turn his truck   across traffic. "I became acutely aware of how random life can be. You can be having a great time and a minute later you can be dead," he continues. "I'll wish for evermore that it had never happened but there's nothing I can do to change it or make it better."Delmont separated from his wife a year after the accident. He has a new girlfriend but prefers to live on his own. "Much as I like the idea of getting remarried," he observes, "I think that the accident has made it harder for me to get close to people."For those who are genuinely at fault, recovery can be impossible. On   Christmas Eve 1993, Chris Sutton mounted the pavement and killed two pedestrians while four times over the legal alcohol limit. After serving two years in prison, he fled to Bangkok. Since then he has acted as if he has a death wish. Only recently he was rescued from the jungles of Papua New Guinea. He talks defiantly of his right to live his own life, but he acts like a man who knew the game was up long before it started.Punishment can come in many forms. Steve Baker helped a friend to start a car and took it for a short drive. Three-year old Leonie Hardwick-Hartford stepped out in front of him. There was nothing he could do to avoid the accident and his only crime was to be uninsured. "It wasn't   as though it would have made any difference to Leonie," he says, "but I've been put though hell since." Baker has been plagued with remorse, has split up from his wife and been forced to leave his home after a local hate campaign was orchestrated against him. On one occasion a broken doll with red paint on its head was left on his doorstep.One of those who took part in the campaign is Margaret Highton, Leonie's grandmother. She takes a very simple, hard line. Driving without insurance is illegal. Anyone who kills someone while driving illegally deserves to be prosecuted to the full extent of the law. She is now active in Road Peace, a road safety organisation, but Baker remains her prime motivating force. Whether lumbering all the guilt on to him is her way of dealing with her own feelings of guilt that Leonie was allowed to step in the road is another matter.There's little relief for those who kill, but from time to time there is the odd chink of light. Stephanie Greenwood has completely forgiven Sarah Taylor. "If I'm going to blame Sarah, then I'm going to blame myself for allowing her to drive the car," she says. "I was in charge. That's it. There's no one to blame." Stephanie now sees Sarah as a younger sister, and Sarah has had a baby with Stephanie's brother. Sometimes Sarah finds it too much to take. "I think, Why's she reassuring me? I'm the bad one."Just as the roads breed random acts of violence, so, it seems, they also occasionally breed random acts of kindness.
Steve Bennett, 33Business:jungle.comActivities:Retails computer software, music, videos, games.Founded:Went live on August 30, 1999, with &#163;7.5m marketing budget.Valued:&#163;40m. Bennett has a 36.7% share, making him worth around &#163;15m excluding other business ventures.Starting out:Decided to launch an internet business before the large US software companies targeted the UK. Own money and backing from 3i.Ambition:"If someone stops people and asks them to name five internet brands, we want be one."Spent it?Made &#163;5m from sale of a computer magazine several years ago which, he says, is still sitting in the bank. Has the "house, car and boat".Education:Five CSEs, Smithswood School, Castle Bromwich.Politics:Reluctant Labour.www.jungle.com
Andrew Doe, 35, David Lethbridge, 36Business:Confetti.co.uk.Activities:Wedding services from gifts to dresses to honeymoons.Founded:February 1999.Valued:Around &#163;8m. Each have roughly one third: &#163;2.6m.Starting out:Met at United News &amp; Media's LineOne. Doe designed Times and Sky TV websites, Lethbridge did marketing for Nestl&eacute; and Johnson &amp; Johnson. Both worked as consultants to fund Confetti launch. Raised &#163;1.8m in May from Atlas and Botts &amp; Co.Ambition:"To see Confetti established as an upmarket household brand across Europe."Spent it?"Haven't seen any cash."Education:Doe has degree in electronic engineering from Southampton university, MBA from Insead. Lethbridge has a degree in management science from Kent University.Politics:Doe Conservative, Lethbridge Labour.www.Confetti.co.uk
Charles Cohen, 30Business:Beenz.Activities:Online loyalty programme.Founded:Went live March 1999.Valued:Business worth &#163;62.5m, Cohen's stake &#163;12.5m.Starting out:Designed corporate websites at a PR company. Had idea for Beenz after finding nothing but golf clubs and crystal decanters in his Barclaycard reward scheme. He and friends raised &#163;300,000 from family. Have since attracted &#163;16m from private investors.Ambition:"To make the theoretical millions into real millions."Spent it?Bought a Mercedes A-class before starting the company. Yet to see any of his paper wealth.Education:PPE degree at Oxford university.Politics:Liberal Democrat.www.beenz.com
Nick Gilbert, 31Business:NewsNow.Activities:Collates news headlines from more than 800 sites.Founded:February 1998.Valued:&#163;15-20m. Gilbert has 25% stake so is worth up to &#163;4m on paper.Starting out:Worked on an IT news website. Funded by journalism. About to get &#163;2m venture capital.Ambition:To float on stock market.Spent it:"We take a modest salary but haven't yet hit the jackpot."Education:Degree in French at Nottingham university.Politics:Labourwww.newsnow.co.uk
Richard Downs, 33Business:Iglu.com.Activities:Online ski accomodation.Founded:October 1998.Valued:&#163;12m. He and business partner Emmanuel Drouet hold 40%, worth &#163;2.4m each.Starting out:Raised &#163;250,000 from friends, &#163;50,000 from London Business School.Ambition:"I'd ideally like to take us to a stock market flotation."Spent it?"It's all virtual money. I'm marginally better off than a student."Education:Civil engineering degree at Loughborough University. MBA at London Business School.Politics:Conservative.www.iglu.com
Xavier Azalbert, 34Business:First-e.Activities:Online banking.Founded:April 1998.Valued:Parent companies enba and Banque d'Escompte invested &#163;37.8m. He has undisclosed stake.Starting out:Had the idea for a purely online bank while working as marketing director for Fidelity.Ambition:200,000 accounts by end of next year, then a pan-European bank.Spent it?"Talking about quick money totally devalues what we are trying to achieve."Education:Degree in maths and econometrics at Toulouse university.Politics:Doesn't vote.www.first-e.com
Mark Bernstein, 39Business:Gameplay.com.Activities:Online games portal; products for sale and interactive gaming.Founded:August 1999. ICE, a direct-to-home supplier of computer games, and Wireplay, an online games company, merged and floated.Valued:Gameplay &#163;60m, Bernstein's wealth "around &#163;6m or &#163;7m".Starting out:Trained as accountant, became finance director of property company Milner Estates aged 27. Set up Virtuality in 1991, selling out 18 months later. In 1995 set up Entertainment On-line. It closed in 1997 losing "a lot of money". Worked for GeoCities, helped $4.3bn Yahoo! merger. Quit in January to set up Gameplay.Ambition:"To build a world ranking internet content business. There aren't any in the UK at the moment."Spent it?Lives in the former country pile of ex-Chancellor Lord Lawson, drives "a very old Daimler".Education:Highgate School, Stirling university.Politics:"Child of Thatcher."www.gameplay.com
Click on a link to view it - scroll down for more.
Ziad Salem walks out of his office above a grimy motor dealership in Fulham and asks: "Do you want to know what my goal is?" He motions towards a well-preserved Victorian school which his building overlooks: "I'd like to turn that into my house. You could put a swimming pool in and it would be really cool."Salem, a squat 25-year-old from Beirut, may be joking, but then again he may not. At an age when most people are still deciding what to do with their lives, Salem has built a company, with a staff of 20, worth around &#163;15m. His own stake in the business, Future Internet Technologies, is valued at about &#163;3m.In his black jeans and Joe 90 specs, Salem is one of a new breed of entrepreneurs who are finding that in the alternative reality called cyberspace, anything is possible. At first blush these virtual prospectors - the "entreprenerds", as they are occasionally described - seem a very different species to the generation of sharp-suited opportunists who rode the dizzy boom of the Thatcher years.Their uniform is T-shirt and combat pants, their offices are often converted lofts and their accents are distinctly multinational. They deploy the vernacular of the West Coast digerati with abandon and their politics are a far cry from the Thatcherite individualism of their 80s predecessors. Many of the 50 pioneers interviewed described themselves as apolitical, with a sizeable proportion professing loyalty to New Labour.Scratch the surface, though, and you soon realise that 10 years ago Salem and his ilk would probably have been embarking on City careers. Far from being a band of talented outsiders crashing an establishment party, our survey revealed them to be the children of the very same establishment, minus their suits and ties.These fortune hunters will have every bit as great an impact on the character of the decade as the Loadsamoney generation did on theirs - and a far greater impact on Britain's business landscape.For people like Salem, the role models are not Bill Gates of Microsoft or Michael Dell of Dell Computers, the American middle-aged pioneers who gave jeans-wearing a bad name. They prefer to emulate people closer to home and to their own ages. The dreams are cast in the image of British success stories such as lastminute.com. Barely a year after setting up their online bargain holiday and ticketing business, founders Brent Hoberman, 31, and Martha Lane Fox, 26, are preparing to float the company on the stock market with a valuation of &#163;400m. That makes it roughly the same size as Selfridges and twice the market capitalisation of the Body Shop.Another role model might be Dan Metcalfe, 36-year-old founder of fortunecity.com, which provides space for community-based websites and is now the 25th most visited site in the US. Metcalfe, who launched the service two years ago, floated his company on Germany's IT stock market, the Neuer Markt, with a valuation of &#163;300m. His stake in the company is worth &#163;18m.Generation e are brash, frighteningly confident and the antithesis of the slacker generation whose lack of ambition was endlessly lamented between economic booms. The zeitgeist is captured by 26-year-old Serena Doshi of Liv4now.com. "A friend of mine said that living through the 90s and not getting involved in an internet start-up is like living through the 60s and not smoking." Liv4now is, ironically, a website devoted to hedonism.The phenomenon is called "landgrab". The race is on to claim domain names and establish cyberbrands in what is almost virgin territory. Amazon has already been hugely successful in establishing itself in the book retailing market, while others are scrambling for position in everything from wedding planners to Body Shop lookalikes - counting on the fact that the bricks and mortar brands are too lumbering to exploit the opportunities.Simon Murdoch, who sold his online book retailer to Amazon for &#163;5m last year, had initially hoped to set up a service for one of the high street retailers but, typically, found himself laughed at. Even the most sceptical traditionalist can't be laughing now. Transactions worth &#163;2.8bn will be made over the internet in the UK this year, rising to &#163;30bn by 2002. There are currently 8.1m people in Britain on the web, projected to rise to 25m in five years.In its idealised form, the rags to cyber-riches dream is to come up with the big idea in a moment of inspiration - preferably in the pub - prepare a business plan, give up the day job, attract investors and then sell or float the company, making yourself a million or 10 in the process.For most, the wealth is still notional - based on the implied valuation given to their company by an investor. But there are enough examples of very real wealth to give the dizzying estimates some credibility. Cliff Stanford, founder of Demon Internet, made &#163;30m from its sale last year.Dylan Wilk, just 25, sold his internet games business to Gameplay.com for &#163;2.6m in cash and &#163;3m in shares. He also draws a &#163;76,000 salary and bought a red Ferrari. He subsequently lost his licence for speeding and has since bought a more sedate BMW 840.Nowhere is the febrile pace more apparent than in the charged atmosphere of First Tuesday, a networking group set up to put people with ideas in touch with each other and, more importantly with the money they need. The Silicon Valley-style group, which started as a monthly social get-together for a few friends, has mushroomed into a weekly schmoozefest, replicated in 16 countries.Conversations flow to the rhythm of fluttering business cards and everybody has their story ready for the right person. Assessments of someone's use are quickly made and eyes are permanently darting around the room."First Tuesday is a mirror of what is happening in the market as a whole," says Julie Meyer, one of its co-founders. "People here are looking for short cuts to build their businesses or else they won't be able to fend off the marauding Americans."It is here that the media-savvy nature of the beast is also at its most revealing. Robert Norton of Click Mango reminds me that I have forgotten to ask his age (27) while another budding entrepreneur, Daniel Gestetner, 28, whose Focus Digital runs a shopping portal, namedrops furiously. He was, he tells me, in the Times the other week.It is difficult to overestimate the impact the cybergoldrush has had on the dynamics of power in Britain's business world. Twentysomethings now have not only the allure of youth but valuable knowledge because of their closer relationship to the new technology. Salem boasts that even a senior investment banker would entertain a job offer from him because of the lure of share options.Charles Muirhead is the 24-year-old boss of Orchestream, which is developing software to improve the quality of internet networks. "There used to be fairly well-understood laws of career," he says. "You would leave university and if you were lucky you would get a job in a good firm and work your way up into management."Technology has changed all that. It has empowered younger people. That's not to say that there aren't some older people out there doing good stuff. The guys at Sportal are hardly spring chickens." No indeed. Rob Hersov, who runs Sportal, which provides sporting websites, is 38.It is an old saw that the universal access and spread of information of the net would create a more egalitarian society. But those making money from the distribution of that information are largely from the same establishment that once made their fortune from manufacturing and selling goods to the masses. The internet is likely to cement the old world order rather than change it. Hoberman's father is a Wall Street financier; Lane Fox is the daughter of an Oxford don.The market is dominated by Oxbridge graduates with the confidence and contacts to raise funds. Norton was at university with Hoberman, who is friends with Hersov, who plays tennis with Salem, and so it goes on. "It's a mafia out there," concedes Salem, who went to a Swiss school attended by Nigerian and Kuwaiti princes. "Every deal that's about to happen, I know will happen."London has become the epicentre for the explosion of the internet in Europe, but any smug conclusion that the Brits have embraced a new spirit of enterprise is quickly punctured. A large proportion of those thriving in London's hothouse environment are from abroad. Hoberman and Hersov are South African; the doyenne of the scene, Eva Pascoe, who co-founded the Cyberia chain of internet cafes, is Polish; Meyer of First Tuesday is American. Ernesto Schmitt, 28-year-old founder of peoplesound.com, which aims to download unsigned artists' music on to CDs via the web, is half German and half Uruguayan. He fondly describes himself as "utter Eurotrash" and questions whether Brits are "ballsy enough" to risk failure.London is developing its own micro-Silicon Valley on the edge of the City in Clerkenwell. Start-ups such as moreover.com, ClaraNet and NetBenefit have already made it their home, and larger concerns such as Hollinger New Media and TheStreet.com are moving in. Outside the capital, Cardiff and Edinburgh have burgeoning internet scenes, but it is Yorkshire which has produced the most successful businesses. Paul Sykes and Peter Wilkinson, who built Planet Online, come from Harrogate, Sporting Internet founder Chris Akers discovered the net while he was chief executive of Leeds United and Gameplay.com's Wilk started selling computer games from his mother's council flat in Batley.The speed with which generation e has arisen has been astonishing. Most start-ups contend that as little as 12 months ago it was next to impossible to raise finance in London. Many claim they can identify to the month when the venture capitalists began knocking on their doors and journalists started taking a prurient interest in their notional wealth.Much of the money flooding in has come from the US, where the market is more mature and the odds that start-ups will become overnight successes are lower. Paul Zwillenberg, a consultant from Kansas working in London, says the immaturity of the European market is attracting people from overseas. "The perception is that in the US the landgrab is over. Here it's just beginning."Some significant private investors have also begun turning their sights on the sector. Rupert Murdoch has created a venture capital fund called eVentures, while Bernard Arnault, the Frenchman who runs Louis Vuitton Moet Hennessy, has put &#163;325m into his own fund, Europ@web.The character of the industry is changing rapidly. As the hype grows, an increasing number of people are coming from the City or with top-flight MBAs, and the ages are going up. Richard Downs, 33-year-old founder of iglu.com, which sells skiing holiday accommodation, is becoming a typical example. He left investment banking to do an MBA at the London Business School where he majored in e-commerce.He says: "Those previously attracted by high salaries and high bonuses of the City are equally attracted by the apparent gains for the first movers in the internet. The City was the 80s goldrush phenomena, the internet is the 90s."Ivan Pope, 38-year-old founder of Net Names, a domain name registration service, set up a newsletter about the internet in 1993 and says the number of people entering the industry from outside is "mindblowing. I used to look around and know everyone. Then all the suits arrived and I hardly know anyone." The slide in Freeserve shares and the reduced valuation given to online auction house QXL on flotation have barely registered with the start-ups, but send out a stark reminder that share options are worthless if the market crashes. Wilkinson, 45, who came up with the idea for Freeserve, making a fortune estimated at between &#163;50m and &#163;100m, sees tougher times ahead. "The internet is a young man's game. Most people would look at me and say I'm past it. But it is the big brands with distribution, the Tescos, the WH Smiths, the Kingfishers, they'll win out in the end."
Shortly after Rob Hersov quit his job to set up an internet business, his friend and fellow South African Brent Hoberman ran up to him in London's Kensington High Street and asked him to put money into a new venture.He couldn't. Hersov had just ploughed all the cash he had into his own business and so missed an opportunity to invest in lastminute.com, arguably the most successful web-business to have emerged in Britain in the past year.For most people, this mistake might have represented the missed opportunity of lifetime, the moment when the prospect of certain prosperity disappeared for ever. For Hersov, it didn't. The 38-year-old is the founder of Sportal, a company that provides links to official websites for sports fans. He started in January last year, and it is already worth &#163;125m.The business has grown rapidly and is in the process of moving from two offices above a nightclub and a furniture shop on the King's Road to larger premises in Battersea. It now employs 140 people and Hersov's 10% stake is worth &#163;12.5m."At the beginning, the internet was about geeks in garages," he says. "They were the real founders. But now it's investment bankers, lawyers and consultants with formidable business experience. They are still young, but they are a different breed of entrepreneur."Hersov wanders through his office as though displaced from a 1950s US TV show. He good humouredly flicks the ear of one of his members of staff, banters with another about the game last night, and another about whether he had one too many the night before - all the while maintaining a broad grin.It's all about having fun here, he says, and who could argue? Staff members in their early 20s are wheeled up to talk about their part in the business. They duly enthuse.He employs a string of former City workers who have abandoned their pin-stripes to seek their fortunes through share options instead of annual bonuses."Everyone here has share options," he says. "I want the junior secretary to wake up one day and find she can buy her own home outright." The company, likely to float on the stock market in the middle of next year, produces official sites for football clubs including Bayern Munich and Paris St Germain as well as grass-roots sport - down to girls' hockey in Denmark. There are also generic sports sites, up-to-date results services and live audio feeds.Hersov claims to have been approached with a takeover offer by all of the business's main rivals in the US: "We want to make this a global business. It's not enough to be another nice UK internet company because all you end up as is an  hors d'oeuvre for someone else."Brought up in Johannesburg, Hersov landed a job at Goldman Sachs in New York while backpacking. He then worked in the media department for Morgan Stanley in London and gained an MBA from Harvard in 1989. He worked for Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation in business development and ended up running Telepiu, the Italian pay-TV channel.Sportal.com was launched with &#163;1m of Hersov's own money and &#163;2m from private investors met through contacts in his former jobs. The business has since raised another &#163;20m, largely from venture capitalists including 3i, the Japanese bank Nomura and Global Retail Partners. Once a year, Hersov still meets up with Murdoch for a coffee.This year, though, there was a certain hesitancy on his part to share what he is up to with his former employer. "I am very careful what I tell Rupert because this is something they clearly should be doing," he confides. "There's no question that the large media companies have been too slow to react to the internet."
A Guardian survey of 50 of Britain's leading internet tycoons reveals they have amassed a staggering fortune of &#163;1.3bn between them in little more than four years. Many of the businesses have turned their founders into millionaires almost overnight.For many of those involved in new ventures the fortunes are still "virtual" and will only find their way into bank accounts through either selling or floating the business on the stock market.A wave of entrepreneurs who   pioneered the development of the internet in the mid-90s, however, have already pocketed vast wealth. Jan Murray, 51, made &#163;41m from the sale of his service provider business Internet Technology Group to a US firm after founding the company in 1995. Paul Sykes, the anti-euro campaigner, has made an estimated &#163;140m from the internet, chiefly from backing Planet Online, a service provider business sold to the telecommunications group Energis.There is also a growing number of teenage millionaires. The youngest featured in the   Guardian survey is Tom Hadfield, 16, who started a website called Soccernet in his bedroom that grew into a business worth &#163;80m. In a cautionary tale for budding entrepreneurs, Mr Hadfield sold the rights to Associated Newspapers for a six-figure sum before realising its value. He has started a new business, valued at &#163;25m, of which he and his father own 60%."There is a serious amount of money to be made," said Gerald Brady of venture capital business 3i. "You can be much more successful far more quickly than you could   in a traditional business which is a great incentive for talented people." He is receiving up to 20 proposals from new start ups a day.Most websites make their revenues from advertising and e-commerce, although few have yet to break into profit.The industry is rapidly taking on professional mores. Where the pioneers tended to have computer-related qualifications, the lure of share options is increasingly attracting people from the City and traditional Oxbridge jobs such as management consulting. A growing number are also entering the business clutching MBAs."The deal flow is incredible," said Mr Brady. "There are a lot of good people out there saying, 'It's depressing to find a 24-year-old doing this' and so an increasing amount of people in corporate careers are feeling that now is the time to go for it."Robert Norton, 27, a former Reuters journalist whose business Click Mango will offer natural health products via the web, managed to raise &#163;3m just eight days after making his first pitch to venture capitalists.Mr Norton founded his business in June and will not even launch the website until next year. "After 40 minutes on the first day we had been offered &#163;1m. By the afternoon someone had made an offer for the company," he said.Carol Dukes, who set up online businesses for media groups Emap and Carlton, is one of the founders of Think Natural, which will find itself up against Mr Norton. Ms Dukes raised around &#163;4m before launch, making her stake in the company worth approximately &#163;2m overnight.Eva Pascoe, who founded   and sold the Cyberia chain of internet cafes, reckons that one in 10 of the businesses now being set up will float on the stock market, giving the founders a real chance to bank their millions.The phenomenon is being fuelled by US cash pouring into London. The wealth of Britain's internet tycoons is still dwarfed by their US counterparts. Jerry Yang, co-founder of Yahoo, is worth &#163;1.8bn at 30 while Pierre Omidyar, 34, chairman of the online auction company e-Bay, is worth &#163;2.3bn.
The explosive growth of internet start-up companies in Britain is now entering its crucial second phase as the bubble share valuations of recent months give way to a more mature approach.  The collapse of Freeshare's  share price by more than 40% since its post-flotation peak was a blessing in disguise. It was a much needed warning to investors who lost some of their money that the internet revolution is about much more than making instant profits.But if the pricking of the bubble at such an early stage leads to a more sober approach then the recent surge of web start-ups in the UK could be put on a much more durable basis. For - make no mistake, the internet revolution is going to turn business and commerce upside down irrespective of what happens to share prices. (And 80% of the action won't even be visible to us because it will be conducted between companies as they put their supply lines and communications with customers online).The issue is whether UK-based companies will grab the lion's share of the action or whether we become a digital fiefdom of the US. The Americans made nearly all of the running until earlier this year when Britain unexpectedly received an entrepreneurial heart transplant. Suddenly dozens of new start-up companies sprouted. Many are run by people in their 20s, or graduates with business plans where their backpacks used to be who hitherto wouldn't have had the opportunity let alone the money to do anything about it.Now the ideas are there, the people are there and the money is there - all of which is creating demand for skilled jobs that has turned the recruitment market upside down. The new start-ups fall into three categories: clones of existing US successes (likeAmazon.com'sonline book sales); those seeking competitive advantage by providing a European version of an American idea (likeQXLthe auction house that announced flotation plans last week). Or, most interestingly, those providing something that doesn't exist in the US - likeLastminute.com(eleventh hour solutions for air tickets, holidays etc) orBeenz.com, an attempt to provide a kind of digital money for the internet.The speed at which  companies are now being set up requires staff not in three months' time after tortuous recruitment processes, but tomorrow. Brian Levine, finance director of Internet Appointments, the online recruitment firm, reports that in key areas demand is up by 47% while supply is going up by only 6%. Good people now have the pick of four to five jobs. He adds; "Talent has taken the initiative. Companies have less control. They don't pick who they want any more".Murray Hancock, head ofFourleaf.com, which specialises in partnering internet firms believes that in the wake ofFreeserve'sshare drop the prospects are still excellent for web start-ups and that the slowdown will be reflected in prices rather than numbers. The internet, he says, is now a preferred career option for MBAs and there are now increasing signs that experienced people are leaving established companies for start-ups. "This is just starting to happen in the UK. Management talent is the key ingredient because venture capital will only follow management talent."It will be left to historians  to determine exactly why the surge of start-ups ocurrred.   It didn't have to happen. The UK largely missed out on the hardware and software revolutions of previous decades and could easily have succumbed to the digital expansionism  of US companies without a fight.That they didn't is due to a variety of factors. US venture capitalists were moving away from the crowded US market to the emerging possibilities in Europe. At the same time Brits returning from visits to Silicon Valley with a "me too" attitude found a nascent venture capital industry more willing to lend at a time when use of the internet in the UK was starting to approach critical mass.The success of Freeserve in achieving a valuation of over £1.5bn  for offering free access to the internet (and topplingAmerica Onlinefrom pole position in the UK net access market) cannot be underestimated. However unrealistic the valuation, it proved that ideas could be translated quickly into highly valuable companies and that the Divine Right of even the biggest US companies to run the internet on their own terms could be challenged.The situation was summed up by one person at the last meeting of First Tuesday, the networking organisation whose initiative in  bringing aspirant entrepreneurs together through monthly wine-and-sign parties is one of the ingredients of the UK's success. He was working in a city firm (and asked that his name not be mentioned) but was about to leave and launch his own web company to remind people of favourite dates and people they could send presents to. "My wife's hairdresser is buying a PC. That's how I know it's happening now. Next year it will be too late. I don't want to wait until I am 80 to say I wish I'd done that. I want to try right now, aged 36."It is possible that the internet will start to remove one - maybe the biggest - obstacle to Britain pulling her weight in economic terms: our inability to translate our ideas or innovations into profitable products.Britain has devised more important inventions in the twentieth century than anyone else yet we have failed to exploit them. The internet suddenly offers the prospect of turning an idea into a corporation without leaving your front room.Of course, it still costs much more to develop an idea even in the internet age than many would-be businessmen would imagine. But the barriers between ideas and achievements - and the money to finance them - have never been lower.
In 1994, when the internet was a fledgling medium, it seemed about to usher in the biggest handback of power to the individual since Universal Suffrage. The excitement was its promise to level the media playing field by bringing a powerful tool within reach of anyone with a computer, a modem and a phone line.Although access is still patchy and unreliable, in certain areas and with the right preparation, individuals can distribute intellectual property, or buy and sell shares and goods around the world with the speed of a multinational. In the ebb and flow of electronic value, one day everyone will be rich for 15 minutes.One day maybe, but not yet. Human nature has not changed since the days of the South Sea Bubble, but the   speed of change has changed, and there is a desperate character to the activities in this new gold rush.Now we need a Media Carta, a charter of rights and wrongs for the new information economy, as significant as the Magna Carta which enshrines Anglo-American civil liberties. The full Media Carta would include protection against tabloid lies and access to channels of old media distribution. My concern here is the new-media segment of the charter. Governments tap into our email, and software companies allegedly build "back doors" into our operating systems to make spying easier.UK and European regulators continue to allow an internet "tax", which racks up &#163;3 per hour in peak time in the UK. The Online Research Agency   reckons 17% of BT's call revenues are internet calls.Rulers have always wanted to know what their subjects are saying and thinking. However, one of the freedoms established in Elizabethan England was the refusal by the Crown to "make a window into men's souls". Today those who put "inappropriate" thoughts on the web become the object of state interest and vilification from China to the USA. An American who started a website called Exploding Heads, featuring the heads of people like Bill Gates exploding into thousands of pieces, was arrested by the FBI and had his computer equipment confiscated.Governments are not alone in trampling on early internet idealism. Email lists are used by spammers who deluge us with get-rich-quick schemes. Companies buy websites that don't work from salesmen who peddled double glazing till the previous day.Internet connections crash because not enough has been invested in the service providers' infrastructure. When that happens, the playing field, so recently levelled in favour of the little guy, suddenly tilts back to an acute angle.   Companies have service level agreements and get compensation, but not domestic consumers.The new Media Carta will recognise that information supply is as precious as the water supply. It will ban junk mail unless the recipient has opted-in. It will safeguard the right to use encryption and protection from the use of personal information for purposes other than which it was intended.Take Amazon, a company with a multi-billion share valuation based on a database it has yet to fully exploit. Amazon carefully put its head above the parapet by releasing figures about books which are popular in small areas, or among specific communities, like people who work for Microsoft.There was an immediate protest from the civil liberties lobby, but no serious opposition from Microsoft, or the news media, who are all too busy wondering how to exploit their own info-hoard.The fact that these freedoms are not yet available to all is a concern. The advanced economies should bring the information poor into the info-structure. Another element of the new Media Carta is a tax on all web revenues to be funnelled   into increasing the global penetration of the internet in the deprived regions and communities. (The Magna Carta has a long preamble about property tax, so there is a precedent.)The Net Aid concert - a global internet music fundraiser - is a partial recognition of that obligation. The concert will raise funds for the United Nations to bring the internet to poor and outlying areas. The stars, including Jon Bon Jovi, David Bowie, Eurythmics, George Michael and Sting, will help to raise money for the information have-nots. A Media Carta would protect the right of these artistes, and all lesser-known ones, to sell their intellectual property rather than having it forwarded free by email.On some levels the net's early promise has been   fulfilled. Consumers are slowly discovering the power of the mouse. Small groups of individuals take more control over their lives, whether it is discussing alternative medical treatments, or researching their own compensation claims. One in seven of all search engine queries is health related.A Silicon Valley couple set up a website to oppose the Clinton impeachment process as a ludicrous waste of time. They received more than $13m in pledges. A student who started an anti-Ford Motors website won his court case to avoid having the site shut down. His weapon was the First Amendment.TV remade political discourse into a series of sound bites and photo opportunities. The internet could remake it into serious dialogue again, and this time around the individual's voice will be heard above the din of politicians.One day everyone will be powerful for 15 minutes.&#149;  A longer version of this article will be published as a pamphlet next week by The Fourth Roomwww.fourth-room.com.Email:info@fourth-room.com
Today's revelation, published in the StudentBMJ, that internet addiction is something that really exists, and that addicts need help and support, raises some interesting questions.Is calling heavy use of the internet "addiction" just a way of pathologising something that's a harmless variation of everyday behaviour? Spending hours at a time online may appear anti-social and seem a mite pathetic, but it's not an illness, is it?Dr Kimberly S Young, from the Center for On-Line Addiction, in Bradford, Pennsylvania, confronts the scepticism. In an editorial in the StudentBMJ, she says many practitioners do not recognise the disorder, but by applying criteria used to diagnose other forms of addiction, it seems some net users do, indeed, appear addicted.The negative effects of it include, according to Dr Young, a raft of antisocial results. "I can describe cases of divorce, job loss, financial debt and academic failure. In general, divorce rates seem to be growing because of online infidelity. Perhaps the worst case is of a 12-year-old boy who shot and killed his mother and then himself because she abruptly took the computer from him."Clearly, those tales are chilling, but people should surely be allowed their heavy use, if it harms nobody. Take    Paul, 37, who still lives with his mum, and who told  net magazine he devotes as much as 18 hours a day to refining his Penny Smith fansite (Smith is a daytime TV presenter), exchanging email and capturing images direct from the telly. Paul has "stopped looking for a girlfriend" and now relies on his email pals for his social life. "I didn't really have a social life before. But now I've got one, I don't leave my room."He's unlikely to look for clinical help, and, one might ask, why should he? But Dr Adam Joinson , lecturer in social psychology at the university of Glamorgan, says in the UK the real debate is over the prevalence of the addiction, defined as use which causes withdrawal   symptoms, leads to financial problems, and which is compulsive. The rate is put by US researchers at about 6% of all net users, a figure Dr Joinson feels is too high."A lot of the case studies are difficult to substantiate," he says. "The patient's description of the effect on their lives and relationships is not enough. I have trained about 1,000 students in the use of the internet, and only three or four of them have gone on to have any real problem."However, he concedes that defining overuse of the internet is a subjective judgment - and confesses that even he always has his email program running.Most of us have had the experience of finding those hours just slip away as we get   absorbed in following link after link. Knowing the very vastness of the web is a powerful come-on.I've been accused of being a heavy net user, though it is mostly work-related, and as I work from home, it can be obvious. As I don't score highly on the "are you addicted" questions, I filled in a Test for Spouses questionnaire as if I were my partner, just to checkwww.netaddiction.com/Cyberwidows/partners_test.htm. My total score was so low, it was at the very bottom of the scoresheet.So it seems most of us are OK, though Young says that people already suffering mental health problems are at high risk.And internet addiction can certainly affect marriages, when it leads to cybersex. Cybersex - basically, erotic chat via email or chatrooms - with partners met online seems to be equally common among both sexes, and there are plenty of anecdotes from the UK to show it's real here, too.Young is convinced that the problem of addiction in all its forms is growing. "Local internet support groups have sprung up across the country."Basically, it's no joke when you see so many new programmes developing in response to the need for treatment. And the problem will only get worse as more people go online."Are you addicted?If you answer yes to five or more questions, you should consider seeking help for addiction, according to Dr Kimberly Young.1.Do you feel preoccupied with the internet?2.Do you feel the need to use the internet for increasing amounts of time?3.Have you repeatedly made unsuccessful efforts to control, cut back or stop internet use?4.Do you stay online longer than originally intended?5.Have you risked the loss of a relationship, job, or opportunity because of the internet?6.Have you lied to others to conceal the extent of your involvement?7.Do you use the internet as a way of escaping from problems or of relieving feelings of helplessness, guilt, anxiety or depression?
One of the simplest truisms summarising the human condition is "sex sells." But, "sex drives innovation"? That's an idea without such a popular following, but no less true.From the early days of photography to the latest innovations in real-time, one- to-one video conferencing, most followers of internet development will agree that sex played a huge role in the advance of new communication technology.But it wasn't just the technology that porn geeks took to quickly: it was also the business models. The mainstream is still stumbling along, figuring out what will and won't work in the online economy. Porn sellers know.The rising numbers of web entrepreneurs think they are doing everything for the first time. Their talk is scattered with phrases like "first-mover advantage" and "groundbreaking business model". But what few people care to recognise, at least not publicly, is that most of these business models and indeed the technologies fueling the new economy were discovered and perfected by the first "first-movers" of them all, the online smut vendors."Pornographers have been the very first to exploit any new publishing technology that comes along: photo  graphy, film, photo-litho printing, video tape and video disc," says David Hebditch, co-author of Porn Gold. "Any country's attempt to interdict cross-border flows of porn would be defeated by advances in communication technology, especially data transmission."Internet industry research firm Forrester Research says the online porn industry will reach $366m by 2001, though other estimates suggest it is already worth $1bn.One reason the smut industry has had such an interest   in developing new technologies is that there are so many controls on acquiring these materials elsewhere. Buying a book, or an airline ticket, in the offline world, is relatively stress-free. But acquiring pornography requires visits to unsavoury venues.Giving buyers a respite from that offers huge advantages. "It's something that attracts a broad audience but despite the content having very broad appeal, it's hard to acquire," says Jakob Nielsen, a web usability expert in Silicon Valley. "You usually have to go to some sleazy porn store. That is very much a paradox."The paradox has turned porn into a hugely lucrative online venture, and has helped smut vendors hone an online expertise coveted in the mainstream industry. Technologies only just being put into popular use have been perfected by porn webmasters.In the 1980s, the internet was frequented by three types of people: government officials, university scholars, and porn seekers. The three were not necessarily mutually exclusive. Today's thriving online pornography industry has its roots in the bulletin board systems (BBS) that evolved separately from the internet in the 1980s. They gave way to Usenet newsgroups and free   FTP (file transfer protocol, a format for exchanging files over the internet). Users talked about things they had on BBSs and in the newsgroups, then traded the files online."The earliest porn sites on the net were FTP sites run for free from college campuses, especially MIT for some reason," said one early watcher of the web who asked to remain anonymous. "All the free sites shut down under escalating traffic load in 93-94. Of course they were all rampant copyright violations, and lots of people stopped carrying the newsgroups because of the huge amounts of bandwidth and storage space they required."Gradually, the sex industry came to see the internet as a new potential market, especially with the illegal trade of in-copyright pictures on the free FTP sites.One of those early entre- preneurs was Danni Ashe. Her introduction to the web came while trying to promote herself as a stripper and dancer."After getting on Usenet and discovering how many of my pictures were being traded around, I made an introductory post to Alt.Sex basically saying hello and that I could be reached through my fanclub address."I'll never forget the stern reply I got from Elf Sternberg, the moderator of Alt.Sex, saying my 'commercial postings' wouldn't be tolerated."In 1993 and '94, the world wide web was becoming popularised thanks to the efforts of Tim Berners-Lee at CERN and the Mosaic Team at University of Illinois in the US. The porn vendors were   among the first to begin taking advantage of this new internet medium combining visuals, text and file transfer capabilities.The distinction between the early free sites and the quickly evolving pay sites is murky, but by 1995, sites like Amateur Hardcore and Sizzle were set up, first steps in what would become porn empires for those webmasters. Sizzle, owned by Starnet Communications of Vancouver, Canada, became a publicly traded company in 1997 and is now worth some $400m.When there were just a few sites online, the sex sites quickly became focal points for early web surfers. "Adult sites &#91;saw&#93; massive amounts of traffic early on, &#91;and&#93; a subsequent need to service that many people," says Mark Tiarra, chief executive of Tiarra, which offers site design services for adult web masters. The early sex sites needed to respond quickly to massive use because when a server went down and lost traffic that meant lost revenue.Although not necessarily credited with inventing these technologies, adult webmasters were the first to figure out how to put them to profitable use."Adult webmasters have    pioneered the implementation of several important developments," says Jakob Nielsen. "We had many of the ideas several years ago in various   visioneering projects I was involved with at Bell Commun- ications Research in the early 1990s and Sun Microsystems in 1994 and 1995. Even so, there is a difference between having an idea and putting it out there and making it pay."As the businesses became more sophisticated, the online porn industry had an accelerated course in the pitfalls of making money on the web. Overloaded servers, difficulties with video streaming technology, credit card processing - all the problems that web businesses struggle with today were handled in short order by the adult webmasters."The adult market continually pushed the envelope of streaming technology because of the huge profits seen in high quality streams," says Tiarra. "We always laugh when we hear about how a mainstream company has a server overload (like Victoria's Secret after the SuperBowl) because they didn't plan for the traffic levels. Some of us see traffic like that every day, and the non-adult companies smart enough to learn from that wisdom don't end up with down servers because of a traffic spike."Technical challenges like video streaming and keeping   a server live in a tide of traffic weren't the only innovations early adult webmasters had. They were also quickly learning how to stimulate traffic and profitability. Two other developments in use today, pay-per-click banner ads and real-time credit card processing, the heart of many content sites, were developed by these early webmasters.The business model of selling and sharing content is one echoed by many news sites today. For example, the Press Association re-sells its news to other sites like Excite UK; in much the same way, maintainers of porn libraries re-sell their images and video to other sites.First Virtual, an online banking scheme that started in 1994, helped many e-commerce sites develop credit card processing. Many of its first customers were porn sites."There were a handful of small pay sites cropping up by   the fall &#91;of 1994&#93; mostly using the First Virtual payment system. They were followed in the spring by more big adult sites like Adult America, Cybererotica and Erotica Online which accepted credit cards," Ashe says. "Sizzle was probably the first big commercial adult website and they were one of the first to use video."Ashe says that a site called Virtual Dreams followed with the first proprietary dial up one-on-one video conferencing software.But the porn industry's experts have stayed marginalised: although some   in the field claim that huge numbers of professional webmasters got their start in pornography, most would be hard-pressed to name examples. At a recent internet industry conference, groups of attendees made note of the problems they were encountering that the porn industry had long since solved. But one attendee noted that no representatives from the adult industry was speaking, or even on a panel.One of the most profitable companies -Internet Entertainment Group, purveyors of Clublove.com - has been shut out of the lucrative American Net IPO market because of its attachment to porn.Others, like Ashe, report mainstream companies approaching them for advice or traffic deals, but backing out because of lurking puritanism that pervades even this most progressive of industries.Sex site surfers teach traffic watchersThis winter, road traffic researchers might be tempted to give up counting cars in the rain and mud, and come inside to surf the web. They could even keep their dirty raincoats on - it's the sex sites that offer some of the best research opportunities.Bernardo Huberman, a web traffic researcher at Xerox's Palo Alto Research Centre, presented his latest results to delegates at a highway traffic conference in Stuttgart this week. "They are tantalised by what the internet offers in terms of research possibilities," he says. "I'm showing them just how easy it is to make measurements - we've now moved away from using simulation."Patterns of web-surfing have many parallels with highway traffic, Huberman says. There are identical patterns of congestion and "solid block motion" where everyone is forced to advance at the same speed.The internet offers a rich new research environment for traffic flow studies - hence the invitation to speak. But it is actually the internet service providers, not road users, who are likely to gain most from Huberman's work.After analysing more than 500,000 visits to a major web portal, Huberman and his colleagues at Xerox have come up with some strategies for drawing consumers deeper into sites, and keeping them there: just what is needed if the providers are to sell their advertising spaces effectively. The undisputed kings of this hill are the internet sex sites."The way they structure these sites is amazingly sophisticated," Huberman says. Apparently, it's hard not to be stimulated by them when you're interested in website architecture.Huberman came across the power of web-sex while studying the surfing habits of internet users. He was looking into the number of clicks a person would make before leaving a particular site."Typically, people click once or twice then get out," he says. "But we noticed people were clicking on some sites 200 times. We discovered most of these were sex sites."Further investigation revealed the masterful architecture, leading people deeper and deeper into the site.They are among the few that make money on the web, he points out, and they do so by follow a strange rulebook. When it comes to content, they don't worry about differing too much from sites offering similar products. They even furnish their sites with links to their competitors. But the surfing patterns through these sites are the envy of everyone trying to do business on the web. So much so, in fact, that the sex companies have been hounded for advice by the more modest service providers.Thanks to his study, Huberman has now developed a couple of tricks of his own. The first involves learning how to remove links that might give the visitor what they want too soon. "If you look carefully, some people are willing to go through many more clicks than others," he says. "You can structure the information in such a way that the user will spend more time there."Put simply, that means slipping some users an "enhanced" version of the site that takes them longer to wade through before they find the information they are looking for.He admits that such tactics are likely to irritate those who would prefer to get in, get what they want and get out. But, he says, the web is like a supermarket: people have to realise that marketing strategies are inevitable. "Most people need milk, so the supermarkets put it at the back; then you have to walk through the whole store. It's the same idea," he says.Real world advertisers know that, once the user is satisfied, there is an immediate "seductive moment" when people are more receptive to the marketer's message. This is where Huberman's other strategy, Coupons, comes into play. At these points the user is more willing to hang around inside the portal, so tempting links are vital. The provider can also charge advertisers a premium rate at these places.Huberman does have something to offer consumers: a scheme to hide their intentions from unscrupulous retailers. When a lot of people access information about a particular digital camera, for example, the retailer takes note, infers a high demand and jacks up the price.He has developed cryptographic software that effectively downloads the whole of the surrounding site, and then extracts only the required information for the user to look at.After this, no one knows exactly which product the user was interested in.Michael Brooks
Freelance computer contractors are temporarily abandoning their terminals to fight government proposals to change the way many are taxed, which they say could badly hit their livelihoods and damage the British information technology industry.They are furious at proposed legislation, named IR35, which aims to tax individuals working through single-person companies in the same way as permanent staff are.IT contractors - many of whom work for their own single-person companies - say it could reduce their income by up to 25%.Strong passions have been aroused. Mike Callen, chair of the British Computer Society's contractor group, last week described the plans as "a great day for Holland", predicting that UK firms would be better off siting projects in the Netherlands than taking on UK freelances who had been forced to raise their rates to pay the extra tax.The Inland Revenue claims that it will not be asking contractors to pay more tax than anyone else. It says that   some contractors work in a similar fashion to permanent employees, but get paid through their own company.That means their company takes payment on their behalf, pays them a small salary taxed at normal rates, and a much larger dividend each year taxed at a considerably lower rate. The company also bears a range of costs from its untaxed income. As a result the contractor's total tax bill is much lower than it would be if he or she were an employee.By ending the practice, the Inland Revenue says it can raise &#163;465m in revenues. Paymaster General Dawn Primarolo said last week that "there is a genuine issue of tax avoidance... I am determined that nobody should be able to avoid paying their fair share of tax and NICs just because of the way they structure their relationship with clients."But David Ramsden, director of the Professional Contractors' Group, says the plans will deter bona fide entrepreneurs and have a serious impact on "UK plc".He says: "It seems to us to be unjoined-up government if, on the one hand, you have   the prime minister and secretary of state for industry saying the knowledge-based skills sector is where our future lies, and then the treasury and Gordon Brown introducing a new taxation regime which will put small one-man businesses under threat, and possibly out of business."Contractors claim that the new legislation will not only hit those attempting to dodge tax, but also those with more legitimate reasons for setting up their companies. Had the legislation been in place when Richard Branson or Bill Gates was starting out, "there would be no Microsoft and no Virgin", says Ramsden.He adds: "The people who are going to be caught by this, regardless of whether they are running limited companies or not, are not going to be able to retain profits within their business for future development, because the treasury is saying that taxation and NI is payable on their gross income."Contractors say the money saved by the one-person companies is essential for contractors who need to provide for themselves when work is scarce, or they are   between contracts. They say it is important, in an industry where contracts can last days or years, that workers save for a rainy day.Ramsden says: "It could be they are going to be out of work for a few weeks, or a few months - that's why they need to be able to hold money in their companies, or use it for expansion."A revision to the proposed legislation, announced last week after treasury officials met the Professional Contractors' Group, attracted guarded praise from some quarters - although not from the contractors themselves. Some costs, pensions and workplace insurance, as well as 5% of total income for company administration bills, will be exempt from tax.But any claims of consultation by the government are false, says Ramsden."The consultation has been a sham. Consultation, as far as I'm concerned, does not involve me being called to the Treasury and being told what is going to happen."That is not consultation, that is direction," he says. "They've replaced the unworkable with the illogical."
Scalpel!Arabella Churchill, granddaughter of the British war leader, is getting a facelift in November, and the surgery will be broadcast live over the internet. This is by no means a first - actors and soap stars have done it before - but it's the first webcast fromwww.celebritydoctor.comwith a British angle. The surgery will be performed by Dr Steven Bloch, who has been featured in Vogue and has also appeared on Oprah. Check his website atwww.bodybybloch.com. We eagerly await the response from the rival "celebrity featured" website,www.ADoctorinYourHouse.com, where you can still watch the video of (Beach Boy daughter) Carnie Wilson's gastric bypass surgery.Fat chanceFatbrain is offering writers 100% commission for the rest of this year if they upload their works to e-matter, its digital internet bookstore. You can set your own price, which readers will pay to download secure texts when the service goes live on October 18. Normally Fatbrain will charge $1 a month to host files, and pay a 50% royalty. Fatbrain will continue to sell printed books atwww.fatbrain.comA place for usIt is an uncommonly beautiful day here: the sun is emerging, and the sharp coastal light picks out the tiniest details of the view before you. Obvious exits: West (W) leads to The Ferry... Old hackers might think that they're playing an antique adventure game, but e-artists Nina Pope and Karen Guthrie are usingwww.somewhere.org.uk/islandto direct you to their Mush (multi-user shared environment).The Pope/Guthrie virtual working island will also be featured next month (October 2-31) at the ICA, The Mall, London SW1 (Box office: 0171-930 3647).13, 14Website that solves crossword clues using clever software developed at Duke University in the US (13, 14). Easy: it's the Probabilistic Cruciverbalist. It's remarkably good at American-style crosswords like the New York Times puzzles, and can even get cryptic clues if they're not too obscure. The OneAcross site is atwww.oneacross.comwhile the fascinating technical background is explained atwww.cs.duke.edu/~keim/proverbDome ticketsThe New Millennium Experience Company has started selling tickets for the Dome from its website atwww.dome2000.co.ukThe tickets are for the first quarter, from January 2 to March 31. Compaq, which implemented the ticketing system, says it can process up to 24,000 tickets per hour.Ask SydIt's only a year to the Sydney 2000 Olympic games, and the organisers have relaunched the official website atwww.olympics.com. It is still pretty dull but they have time to sort it out. The competition atwww.sydney2000.comlooks even more moribund.Save our webA group of European internet users is campaigning to Save The Web from the copyright ideas of global media corporations, government surveil  lance and so on. If you have a website you can link to a logo, or if not, sign a petition atwww.savetheweb.orgSearch hereMicrosoft's new search engine is now in place athttp://search.msn.com. The company has also launched FIN (Freedom to Innovate Network) to encourage grass-roots opposition to "regulation, litigation and government intervention" in the software industry. Visitwww.microsoft.com/freedomtoinnovate.Six of the best:Start-up pagesMax links, min spacewww.hotsheet.comSorted and rankedwww.toptenlinks.comBest Journalists' listwww.nytimes.com/library/tech/reference/cynavi.htmlBuild your own sethttp://crayon.netInstant headlineswww.newshub.comBritish news-hubalikewww.newsnow.co.uk
Betting on Pok&eacute;monThe Pok&eacute;mon monsters are likely to end up in court in San Diego, California, where Nintendo has been accused of violating RICO, "the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organisations law usually used against suspected mobsters", according to America's NY Post newspaper. The case is about Pok&eacute;mon trading cards. Kids try to collect full sets but some cards are rarer than others.One lawyer says: "You pay to play, there is the element of chance, and you've got a prize. It's gambling." The hunt for rare cards is also said to lead to thefts and fights in schools.Nintendo's lawyer, Richard Flamm, said that similar actions had been filed against other trading- card makers but "to our knowledge, none has been successful in asserting that trading cards is a form of illegal gambling".Sierra off lineSierra Online has given some of its most keenly-awaited games, including Babylon 5, the chop. Cancelled titles include Desert Fighters, Pro Pilot Paradise, and Orcs: Revenge of the Ancient. Another game, Middle-earth, is being re-started from scratch. Sierra says sales are up by a third on last year, partly because of the success of Half-Life. It's also expecting more hits from forthcoming titles such as Homeworld, Pharoah, Gabriel Knight 3, and Starsiege Tribes Extreme. The cancelled games "did not meet &#91;Sierra's&#93; success criteria", said president, Dave Grenewetzki.Babylon 5 fans have been exercising their feelings of outrage on various game-oriented message boards, and hoping another publisher will rescue the title.Lara slimsLara Croft'sTomb Raider sitehas been redesigned in the run-up to the launch of the fourth game in the series, The Final Revelation. But it's not packed with pictures of Ms Croft's outstanding attributes, which have recently raised concern. Web game-zine Fastest Games News Online says: "The controversy has caused the biggest debate since Britney Spears decided she'd hurt her leg and needed it seeing to. Has Lara's bosom been reduced for her next outing?" Core Design, the game's designer, replies: "There's no reduction: it's an illusion created by the fact that she's now much smoother and better lit."
Fine filterA software censor that can filter out porn and advertising from web pages is on offer from British company AdScience. Instead of keeping a list of banned sites, like other packages, ADFilter uses artificial intelligence to spot the stuff you don't want to see. That also means the program is much smaller than its rivals, weighing in at under 350KB. AdScience claims 99.97% effectiveness in filtering out adverts, speeding up the web by up to 500%. Get a 30-day trial copy fromwww.adfilter.com.The package costs &#163;15.50, if you decide to buy.SnapDigital cameras tend not to have very good lenses, and tend not to offer powerful zoom lenses. Sony is to address both problems with its CyberShot DSC-F505, which will be available in November. The F505 will offer an f/2.8 Carl Zeiss 5x optical zoom lens, which can be doubled electronically to 10x with some loss of quality. However, the F505 has quality to spare: its high-resolution sensor provides 2.1 million pixels, so it will take 1,600 by 1,200 pictures in 24-bit colour. Sony says print-outs at this resolution are comparable with chemical-based photos.Also in November, Sony will launch the DCR-PC100, the first "megapixel" digital video camera. This provides a picture with a resolution of 520 lines, which Sony says "will appeal to television broadcasters as well as the AV/IT community". The PC100 has a 10x Carl Zeiss zoom lens (40x electronic zoom) and can take pictures with resolutions of 640 by 480 pixels and 1,152 by 864 pixels, so it could also be used as a still camera.Handy IBMIBM launched its first subnotebook PC for the European market on Tuesday. The    thin 1.3kg ThinkPad 240 has been "designed for professionals" and has a smart black UltraCarbon casing with a full-travel keyboard and a 10.4in colour screen. Inside there's a 300MHz Mobile Celeron (Pentium II) processor, 64MB of memory, a 6.4GB hard disk drive and a V.90 (56K) modem. Floppy and CD-rom drives are external. The price is a hefty &#163;1,495 plus VAT.  Next week IBM will also launch a new i Series of ThinkPad notebook PCs described as "personal entertainment centres in disguise". The i Series machines have built-in DVD drives and can be connected to a TV set for watching movies. Prices start at &#163;1,106 plus VAT.Chip slipIntel has announced two faster versions of its Pentium III microprocessor running at 600 MHz and 533 MHz. The 600MHz chips cost $615 each in quantities of 1,000, so they're 12.6% faster than 533MHz chips but 67% more expensive. Intel also announced the new 810E support chipset for PC mother- boards. The expect- ed 820 chipset was not announced due to what Intel called "platform validation issues that may result in memory errors". Alas, this news did not reach Mesh Computers in north London: Mesh sent out a press release dated September 27 for an Elite PC sporting a 600MHz PIII and "820 chipset motherboards &#91;which&#93; will be available in the next couple of weeks". The 820 chipset supports a new form of Rambus RD-ram memory, which is claimed to provide more performance.Name gameMicrosoft is ready to ship the first version of Windows Millennium, the next version of Windows 95/98, to selected users for testing. It is designed for Easy PCs which are intended to be easier to use than models that have stayed compatible with the IBM PC AT (Advanced Technology) launched in 1984. But Microsoft seems to be stuck for a name for the operating system. It could have called it Windows 2000, but it's    already using that for the next version of Windows NT (New Technology) to be launched at the Comdex exhibition in Las Vegas in November. Windows 2000 was originally intended to replace both Windows 98 and NT, making Windows Millennium unnecessary.Unfair sharesMicrosoft president Steve Ballmer made high-tech share prices plunge last week. All he did was say they were absurdly overvalued, including Microsoft's, and that this was "a bad thing for the long-term health of the economy". Microsoft shares promptly fell $7 to $91.18, wiping $1.5bn off Ballmer's paper fortune, and even more off the fortune of his boss Bill Gates. Some shareholders were outraged and, on internet message   boards, suggested Gates should take him outside and give him a kicking. This was not the first time Ballmer has attacked his company's share price, and other Microsoft staff have done the same: chief financial officer Greg Maffei, for example, said the valuation was ludicrous.Microsoft is not one of America's 100 largest companies by turnover and has less than a tenth the number of staff of IBM, but its inflated share price has made its market capitalisation larger than any other company in the world. It has also made Gates, Microsoft co-founder Paul   Allen and Ballmer three of the four richest men in America, according to Forbes magazine's recent listing.Meanwhile, Red Hat, the best-known GNU/Linux operating system supplier, lost $3.1m on sales worth only $4.4m during its last financial quarter, which ended on August 31. When Red Hat was launched on the US stock exchange only last month its shares rocketed from $14 each to $85.25. Steve Ballmer was not heard to comment.
How long have you been using a computer?I got my first Apple Macintosh about five years ago then moved on to my present laptop, a Toshiba Satellite, about a year ago.What kind of things do you use it for?I use it mainly for scripts going back and forth between myself and various writers. There's a software package called Scriptware which allows you to do alterations etc . A lot of emailing. I'm in the middle of building a studio and a training centre in Inverness so we used it for creating a 3D animation to use as a selling document. Showing people the disc was more efficient than just talking to them.How do you feel about the increasing use/importance of computers and computer generated action in films?I find it incredibly fascinating and very, very exciting. I went to an exhibition of the latest video technology in Amsterdam recently, which was twice the size it was last year, and so many of the machines now have done away with rendering and it's all done in real time. One of the things I especially loved was Sony's new 24P High Definition Video Camera, which comes out next April. It reappraises the image 24 times a second similar to a film camera .... so you actually get the same feel as film. Put it through a video to celluloid machine, print it on to 35mm and you cannot tell the difference. So much so that George Lucas shot three scenes in the recent Star Wars using a high-definition camera and he challenges anyone to tell him which three scenes it was. Celluloid costs about &#163;1,000 per minute whereas video tape is 90p a minute ... that's going to have a tremendous impact and drag the film industry kicking and screaming into the technological age.Has any of your film work involved computer generated action?We used a bit of computer generated battle enhancement on Braveheart but,even just five years down the line, that seems a little Mickey Mouse. We had people with ropes saying 'don't step over that line', then we'd all be moved over a different line and shoot it again.Do you use the internet much?I have surfed a wee bit but you would spend the rest of your life sitting in front of a computer screen looking through search engines if you don't actually have a specific purpose in mind.Any you'd like?I'd love a virtual jet-plane simulator, because I hate flying. I do a lot of it and I've never had a happy journey. If I had one of those it would maybe help desensitise me to it.Any thoughts or fears about Y2K?Well I'm not stocking up on bottled water and de-hydrated foods just yet. I mean, even if the water system broke down it couldn't be any worse than what we're getting just now. I think, other than a few glitches, it'll all be all right.
When I first ventured online it seemed there were only three things you could do. The first was send email, the second was contribute to the "lively" debates on various newsgroups and the third was to spend your time downloading bits of software.I didn't know anyone with an email address, my first attempts at posting to newsgroups resulted in a torrent of abuse from various American teenagers (who are all no doubt billionaires by now), so there was no choice. I started to download - and so began a rather helpless addiction.At the time (1993-94) the idea that you could get software for free was really rather thrilling. Until then, all I knew was that you could either buy it from a shop, or type it in from a magazine listing. I had taken a few programs from cover-mounted disks on various magazines, but these had done little more than whet my appetite.Suddenly finding that I could download all the software I could ever need and, even better, tons of stuff that was completely useless, was in my rather sad, geeky way, exciting. The fact that it was pretty much free (at the very worst it died after a 30-day trial period - by which time I'd lost interest   anyway) made it double the fun.My downloads have basically split into four different types. First was the software to help me surf the net better. In those days there was no such thing as just cranking up an all in one pre-installed, do-it-all program. Oh no, you had to have your FTP client, an Archie client, a Gopher client, a news reader and, eventually, a web browser. And all of them had to be updated regularly. Weekly, if possible. Fortunately, those days are over.Of course the first time you finally downloaded this stuff (after several crashes and broken connections), you found out that none of it actually worked because it had to be decompressed.Which brings me on to category number two - the software you have to download to let you use all the other software you have already downloaded. These days a simple copy of Winzip is enough to keep you happy.Next came the software to organise my life. There I was, my finances in a mess, deadlines hurtling by, never   able to find anyone's phone number, and forgetting every family birthday for the best part of a decade. What could I do?Well, there is a simple answer to all this - stop wasting time on the net, write a to-do list, do things and then tick them off.This however was far too dull and effective. My attitude, instead, is that somewhere on the net is the bit of software that can sort everything out for me. For this reason, I have downloaded literally hundreds of address books, personal information managers, To Do lists, databases and finance packages.When I finally acquired a Palm Pilot and, more recently a Psion 5, this complicated things even further. Because not only could I now download organiser software for these machines, but I could also organise extra bits of shareware to make sure that my Pilot spoke to my PC.I dread to think how many hours I have wasted downloading, installing and configuring these bits of software. I am 100% confident that I would be   richer, calmer and much better organised if I had never bothered. But hey, where is the fun in that?The final category is games - particularly for handheld machines. Why read the paper or a book while travelling on the bus or tube when you could be playing PacMan or Space Invaders or Chess or Backgammon or Cribbage on a Palm Pilot? Or even, my current favourite, the fabulous WordBox on the Psion 5 (similar to Boggle and utterly addictive).The big shift since my first days downloading has been the arrival of ever more professional sites. The big leap forward for the world's downloaders was the arrival of cnet's two sitesDownload.comandShareware.com, which have pretty much everything you   want. Their scary efficiency and reliability is almost enough to take away the fun: almost, but not quite.Those with Psions should head immediately toPsionkingor3Lib- the latter has a particularly good range of free software. If you have a Palm Pilot, you simply cannot live without at least a weekly trip toPilotgear.Finally, for those who fancy life among the dangerous downloaders, I can thoroughly recommendHotline. This is a stunningly neat system that allows anyone to set up a server and put pretty much anything on it. As a result, it is heaving with pirated software (as well as MP3s and porn).You have to go through all sorts of bizarre online rituals (basically clicking on a variety of website banners) to be allowed on to some Hotline servers, but once you make it, the pickings are rich, if legally dubious. Download with care.&#149; Simon Waldman is editor of  Guardian Unlimited
Technology lawyers from 17 countries are meeting in London this weekend to plan for the wave of millennium bug-related litigation which is expected to sweep the globe in the next six months.The Lex Millenniale working party of the Austrian-basedCentre for International Legal Studieswill hear that the first millennium-bug related lawsuits have already been filed in the US.UK cases are expected to begin up to nine months after the date change and involve claims totalling hundreds of millions of pounds. John Fleming, a partner at British law firm Howard Kennedy which helped found the group, says litigation will not depend merely on sorting out who takes the blame for any eventual damage.It will relate to a range of other issues, such as who should foot the final bill for Year 2000 compliance work and whether insurance policies are valid. The first cases are likely to involve large firms which can more easily afford litigation, he says. They could be followed by group actions    from smaller firms clubbing together, possibly funded by the no-win, no-fee system newly introduced in this country.There is a great deal of behind-the-scenes legal wrangling already going on in the UK, according to Julian Stait, head of the Year 2000 team at Dibb Lupton Alsop. Disputes centre on who is responsible for carrying out remedial work, and involve several well known companies and claims for hundreds of millions of pounds, he says. Once failures materialise, such cases will be tested in court, he says, and could involve more than 10% of the UK's top 1,000 companies.In some cases potential litigants could find there is no one to sue because their supplier has wound itself up to avoid liability. Fleming says it is rumoured that a significant number of smaller software suppliers have been quietly dissolving and trading under a different name over the past year or two. It is unclear how widespread this problem of    "phoenix companies" might be as precise figures are unavailable from Companies House. Where software suppliers do cease trading, users could try to invoke software "escrow" arrangements.Under escrow - often agreed between client and supplier when software is first supplied - the software source code is deposited with a neutral third-party. Clients can then use it to carry out their own repair work should the supplier fail to provide proper support. However, they could be in for a nasty shock. John Morris, director of legal services at the National Computing Centre in Manchester, which handles 95% of UK software escrow, says most of the firms now checking their safety nets are finding that their agreements are incomplete or have never been properly registered."Many people    who think they have an escrow agreement are finding they haven't, either because the software supplier has not deposited the code with us or because the supplier or client did not follow through with registration," Morris says. "They might think they have 40 or 50 escrow agreements with us, and turn out to have two."According to Fleming, where cases do come to court, one of the main defences for suppliers is likely to be that they were not aware of the    Year 2000 date change problem when the software was written or supplied. An early test case is likely to set a date after which general awareness of the problem can be assumed, and this will have a huge effect on the final volume of litigation. This key date - and the fate of billions of dollars worth of litigation worldwide - could hinge on the cartoon computer programmer Dilbert.In a 1995 cartoon, Dilbert referred to the millennium bug, a fact which some US lawyers argue proves it was common knowledge at that time - the Dilbert Date. Peter Vogel, a Texan technology lawyer and Lex Millenniale member, says around 75 lawsuits relating to Year 2000 issues have already been filed in the US.  These include a suit against a large technology retailer demanding that it put signs next to every product stating whether or not it is Year 2000 compliant; and a suit against the state government of Alabama claiming it did not   spend enough money on repairs to its welfare system.Suits are pending from GTE, Xerox and Unisys who contend (under rarely-invoked provisions known as sue and labor) that their insurers should contribute to the millions of pounds they have spent on Year 2000 compliance because they have saved the insurers a great deal more in potential claims. Vogel says many insurance companies have already received Year 2000 claims and one was predicting it would receive around 7,000.Insurers argue that claims are invalid because insurance covers only unexpected and Year 2000 problems were foreseeable. One factor is now set in stone, according to Fleming: it is now too late for any organisation to rectify Year 2000 problems if it has not done so already. "Three months is not enough time to fix anything. In a sense, the problem is already historical."
Yahoo!is the one internet company that needs no introduction: for the past five years, its directory of web sites has been the most popular site on the net, and in June it was serving up more than 300 million web pages a day.By contrast, relatively few people have heard of Tim Koogle, the chief executive officer who has turned a simple idea, developed by a couple of students in California, into a global business.If the internet grows to 500 million or a billion users in the next five years, at least half will be Yahoo! users, and Koogle will be running one of the world's most important media empires.Nothing could have been further from the minds of Stanford University graduate students David Filo and Jerry Yang back in 1994. Filo's list of favourite websites had got out of hand - more than 200 entries - so they wrote a program to sort them by subject.They put the list online as Jerry's Guide to the World Wide Web, and when it became popular, expanded their coverage. It could have been Dave and Jerry's guide (like Ben and Jerry's ice cream) but they changed the name to Yahoo!, which stands for Yet Another Hierarchical Officious Oracle. The rest is, as they say, history. Well, Silicon Valley history: venture capital funding, hiring experienced managers, taking the company public (in 1996), making eye-watering   amounts of money.Koogle was hired as the experienced manager and became employee number six in August 1995. He had spent nine years at Motorola, and had already run a $300m company, so this was a far-sighted step for both sides. It paid off. Unusually for an internet company, Yahoo! started making operating profits that September, and has been run on a prudent basis every since.That hasn't stopped Koogle taking over lots of small companies - 411, ViaWeb, Encompass, WebCal, Online Anywhere etc -to keep Yahoo! rolling out new services at a ferocious rate. He's also engineered a couple of massive takeovers, picking up home page providerGeoCitiesfor $4.6bn andBroadcast.com(formerly AudioNet) for $5.7bn.Running the business may have kept Koogle away from the media circus, or he may have chosen not to seek the limelight, but I caught up with him in the plush surroundings of the Meridian Hotel in Paris, where he was speaking at a conference. He's pushing 50 and, unlike many Yahoo! employees who are half his age, impeccably dressed.   He's quick to laugh, but considers his words carefully. Like the racing driver he might have been (he learned to rebuild car engines as a kid, and went on a motor racing course for fun) he's clearly not averse to risk, but is careful to calculate the odds beforehand.So what are his plans, apart from taking over the world? "That's not our goal!" he says, laughing. "The overall strategy really has never changed, and that's to build a comprehensive global network business. It's based on the idea that navigation is core and sustainable: it will never go away."At a tactical level, it's to create local branded operational presence so that we can execute within a market really deeply."This strategy has led Yahoo! to start a dozen Metro sites for various US cities from Seattle to Miami, and to set up subsidiaries across the world."Our near and medium-term goal is to build the depth of Yahoo's non-US centres," Koogle adds. There are now Yahoo! operations in eight European countries including Denmark and Spain. Yahoo! is well established in Asia with operations in places like Japan, Hong Kong and Australia, and last week it opened in China. (The earlier Chinese language site was produced in the US.) There's also a Spanish language version, and a subsidiary in Brazil."We're big believers in open access to information world wide, and this allows   consumers to make a choice," Koogle says."Some things are globally popular, like international news, and &#91;users&#93; increasingly buy things without respect to international boundaries. At the same time, we're sensitive first and foremost to the local consumer base. Everyone's interested in the things around them and interested in having them presented in a culturally appealing way." The Japanese Yahoo! should, therefore, be characteristically Japanese, and so on. And it is.What pays for all this? "Advertising is a big component," says Koogle. "It was 100% to start with, but now it's less than 85%. There's a transaction &#91;income&#93; from merchants &#91;in Yahoo's shopping mall&#93;, which is still less than 10%. We also have a platform on which people can author shopping sites, and we host, promote and distribute them: there we're being paid for hosting."All this brought in $115m for the second quarter ending on June 30, a 156% increase on net revenues of $45m for the same period last year. The growth is impressive, but isn't there a dichotomy at the heart of Yahoo!'s business model? Users go to Yahoo! to find websites that interest them, then leave as soon as possible, whereas Yahoo!'s advertising pitch would benefit from hanging on to them."It's kind of a tension, but   kind of not," Koogle replies. "I have never sat in a product review session at Yahoo! where anyone has said 'let's figure out a way to keep users on our service'. We do start conversations with: 'How do we best serve our users?' Period. If we don't have content or whatever on Yahoo!, that's great!" He's happy to send users somewhere else."Our core conviction," he says, "is that if we take care of people, they'll keep coming back. They'll trust us."Unlike America Online (AOL) and the Microsoft Network (MSN), Yahoo! has not created content to compete with the websites to which it sends its users. Nonetheless, it has added lots of functions and facilities that compete with other sites, such as free electronic mail, calendars, chat rooms, games, instant messaging, and auctions. Indeed, many of them are things people have been more used to doing on their own personal computers."The evolution of application software is something we thought we saw when we first started our business," says Koogle. "Things that were sold as packaged software products are evolving into services: one tangible   thing you can look at is &#91;web-based&#93; email, and there are many others, believe me. It serves to commoditise to some extent the application software business, but it is inevitable. I'm a strong believer in it."Can we look forward to logging on to Yahoo! to do our word processing, fill out tax forms and so on? "Yes, yes, yes. It's quite natural, I think," Koogle replies.Back in 1994, Filo and Yang wouldn't have imagined they were starting on a collision course with half the computer business, including Microsoft and IBM, but it's the way the industry is evolving - and it's not over yet."The most fun part for me, for us, has been to play a role in the start of an industry," says Koogle, "but there's evolution involved. There's an early stage when a lot of new companies get formed, and they experiment a lot - Darwin was right! - and some fail miserably and some are successful. Over time it sorts itself out. It's easy to see an equilibrium in which there's a role to be played by a small number of trusted global networks, and there's an equally valid role to be filled on the web by companies that fill a vast array of niche opportunities."Equilibrium may not arrive for years, but if Koogle keeps going at this rate, there's little doubt that he'll be running one of the trusted networks.And "Do you Yahoo!?" will be a superfluous question.
It started with a small group of whacky scientists having a giggle. Now, eight years after the first IgNobel awards were presented in 1991, tonight's ceremony at Harvard university will reach a virtual audience of thousands.Ten prizes will be given for scientific research which "cannot or should not be reproduced". In past years this dubious honour has been conferred upon such masterworks as Chicken Plucking As A Measure Of Tornado Wind Speed by Bernard Vonnegut of Albany university, Farting As A Defence Against   Unspeakable Dread by Dr Mara Sidoli of Washington, and the discovery that a human face could be seen on Mars.Event organiser Marc Abrahams, editor and publisher of theAnnals of Improbable Research, refuses to divulge details of the nominees before the night (the Nobel Awards are similarly secretive), but he does reveal that Britain has excelled itself this year."There are at least two prizes going to people from the UK," he says. "Britain has celebrated and nurtured the best and worst kinds of eccentricity over the   centuries. It is coming to full flower."The most recent British IgNobel went to Dr Harold Hillman of Surrey university for The Possible Pain Experienced During Execution By Different Methods in 1997.One potential UK winner is Professor Len Fisher, whose work on the physics of biscuit dunking at Bristol university was published in the science journal Nature. Professor Fisher will certainly be at the awards, since he is due to give one of the Heisenberg Certainty Lectures, where speakers are charged with refuting the theory that nothing is certain.The speeches are part of a pageant of scientific silliness, including a spoof opera and outrageous costumes which have become part of the event's tradition. Last year featured duct tape, with entire costumes made of the material - along with the scientific revelation that what duct tape is least good for is wrapping around ducts.This attracted webcastersThe Alchemist, a UK-based internet science journal, along with its US sister publication HMS Beagle."Until recently, webcasting gave you only one frame every three or four seconds," says Brian Vickery, The Alchemist's technical manager. "Now it's more like three or four frames a second, so you can follow what's going on."The Alchemist has been among the pioneers of webcasting technology in the UK, hosting "virtual lectures" on a range of scientific topics. This has allowed more than 1,000 researchers around the world to log on to presentations by key academics, with subsequent questions coming in from Australia to Austria. For tonight's webcast, viewers can download free RealPlayer software via the sitehttp://ignobel.orgallowing them to view the ceremony, which begins at 12.30am (7.30pm Boston time). Only 3,000 lines are available, so you may need to get in early to be sure of a virtual seat.Webcasting is certain to grow dramatically in the coming months. NetAid, a charity event on the internet featuring many big names in rock and pop, is to be launched soon, with support from Bill Clinton and Tony Blair. The increasing speed of access and quality of image are making it a viable alternative to tele- vision, and it's interactive.For The Alchemist, the events represent a big step forward. "The IgNobels allow us to reach a new level of participation and sophistication," says managing director Bill Town, who will be in Harvard for the event. "They have attained a certain level of notoriety." So notorious that the UK's chief scientific adviser Sir Robert May has   requested that no British scientists be considered for an IgNobel, for fear of harming their career prospects. He was particularly concerned when ground-breaking research into the reasons why breakfast cereal becomes soggy (by the university of East Anglia) won a prize.The request is treated with derision by Abrahams. He defends the principle of rewarding silly science: "Most of the great technological and scientific breakthroughs were laughed at when they first appeared. People laughed at someone staring at the mould on a piece of bread, but without that there would be no antibiotics."Research which "cannot be reproduced" has a deliberately ambiguous meaning. Pioneering, high level scientific work cannot be reproduced because it is a first."A lot of people are frightened of science or think it is evil, because they had a teacher when they were 12 years old who put them off," says Abrahams. "If we can get people curious and make them laugh, maybe they will pick up a book one day. We really want more people involved in science and I think the webcast will help do that."
It is not easy to bring a 45ft long T-Rex back to life with a computer. Putting life-like flesh on the prehistoric creature's bones is extremely tricky.Once that piece of computer surgery is complete, the challenge is to ensure the flesh moves convincingly over the bones when the enormous creature first begins to walk. For the past 18 months or so, computer graphics experts at FrameStore in London have been grappling with this operation. The fruits of their efforts will be seen next week in BBC1's natural history series, Walking With Dinosaurs.Billed as one of the most ambitious computer-based ventures on British television, the series covers 155 million years of prehistory. It cost about &#163;6m to make and will show all kinds of dinosaurs feeding, hunting, mating, and interacting.  This project is based on the latest scientific understanding of dinosaurs. As well as familiar prehistoric creatures like the Tyrannosaurus and Stegosaurus, TV viewers and internet-based audiences will    see new dinosaurs in action for the first time.For years dinosaurs have been presented in the movies as nothing more than hi-tech ancestors of King Kong. Now viewers will be given a more complete and believable picture. There is plenty of blood and gore but there are also scenes of a female T-Rex laying eggs in her nest and nurturing her young.Eight palaeontologists worked as scientific advisers. More than one hundred were consulted on their specific areas of expertise from dinosaur dung to how the giants actually walked.  Alec Knox, FrameStore's senior technical director, drew on their advice throughout the delicate computer graphics process.Initially, highly-detailed 18in models were sculpted from clay. These were scanned into computers using a 3D laser system. The 3D representations were animated using a software package called Softimage 3D. FrameStore then set about developing the software to generate the documentary's herd scenes. "We produced colour    textures to go on each of the dinosaurs' bodies. These are highly detailed to give the dinosaurs scales and bumps," explains Knox.To make the them move convincingly, the team borrowed behavioural characteristics from animals such as whales and elephants. And for dinosaur attacks, they studied wolves attacking cattle. Walking cycles were generated on computer screens using representations of the dinosaurs' bone and joint structures. Background for the documentary was filmed in locations around the world where ancient plant species still exist, from the monkey puzzle forests of Chile to the redwood forests of California.The camera crew climbed trees and moved branches with string to simulate dinosaurs brushing past. Camera angles had to be precisely measured so the computer-animated models could be accurately scanned in.  There are still areas where computer graphics cannot deliver convincing amounts of detail; and puppets of latex and aluminium were created    by another company, Crawley Creatures, for close-ups. "It has always been difficult to do fur, feather and hair with computer graphics because of the complexity," Knox says."With hair you would have to represent each hair follicle exactly. For this series we have tried to give the best impression of feathers and that is an area that computer technology needs to tackle."The third episode, A Cruel Sea, features an enormous underwater predator called a Liopleurodon. This is about 80 feet long and weighs about 30 tonnes. It attacks and kills a female Ophthalmosaurus as it is giving birth in the water. It makes for entertaining television, but no one knows what a Liopleurodon really looked like. Producer Tim Haines is all too aware of the visual power of computer technology and admits the documentary is based on educated guesswork. "No one will ever know the truth.There are large gaps in our knowledge about dinosaurs, but we have tried our hardest to concentrate on areas where we know things.    But I do sympathise with palaeontologists who say we have made it look as if we know it all. We don't." A sequel has been planned and Haines has briefed BBC producers on the computer techniques so they can consider incorporating them into their shows. It could lead to a new relationship between computer graphics professionals and TV programme-makers.Media commentators often overlook the achievements of the BBC's online services and for this series they have really come to the fore. The dedicated web site atwww.bbc.co.uk/dinosaursoffers 200 pages of information including dinosaur fact files, video clips and downloadable dinosaur games.One lets visitors to the site decide if a dinosaur should run for cover or stay on its nest when a predator arrives.  "You can do things on our site which you cannot do on the programme. TV is at last starting to accept there is a real role for online services    and we are becoming a force in our own right. It is very refreshing," says Richard Williams, manager of science for BBC Online.The site will be constantly updated and there are plans to add information about fossils. Williams jokes that since the creatures have been extinct for millions of years, there is little chance of it becoming out of date.  As a large virtual window on a lost world - a sort of extinct version of David Attenborough's celebrated Life on Earth - Walking with Dinosaurs is a major achievement.But it has strayed into controversial territory because no one is 100% sure the computer graphics team, web designers, TV crew and advisers have got it right.  Our understanding of dinosaurs is hazy and the ability of computers to create virtual worlds raises a lot of questions. But for the time being at least, no one wants to let that interfere too much with what is undeniably a great breakthrough.&#149;  Walking with Dinosaurs starts on Monday at 8.30pm
The internet is an extremely convenient tool for the consumer. At a click of a button, you can buy books, holidays, order clothes and check the football results.But how long will it be before smaller companies in the UK begin to exploit its full potential? The government's recent report on e-commerce revealed that smaller firms have been slow to grasp the opportunities for change that are presented by the internet. However, that could soon change.A number of new online initiatives are about to be launched designed to enable smaller companies to punch above their weight and reap the benefits of the web revolution. This week BT announced what is claimed to be the UK's first free internet site specifically for small businesses - from butchers to manufacturers. It will provide fast access to email and 20MB of web space for commercial purposes.BT research suggests that 67% of the small business sector was not linked to the internet. Oxford-based internet start-up, mondus.com is creating an online business-to-business marketplace for small and medium sized companies. The idea behind the service is simple. Small companies register for free at the site and submit a purchase request detailing which services they require.Suppliers in the relevant category will then bid online for the contract. The buyer can then assess the bids online and contact the supplier whose service provides the best solution for their business needs. Mondus.com is confident that this model could revolutionise the way smaller companies in the UK do business. "Money can be easily saved if smaller businesses join our online service," says its chief executive for Europe, Rouzbeh Pirouz."Buying faster, easier and cheaper are the keywords which best describe what we are offering." The new online business to business service is scheduled to go live in the US in October and shortly afterwards in the UK then it will be rolled out to Germany. Computer supplies, office equipment, courier services and printing services have been earmarked as the initial categories.As a promotional offer, the service is likely to be free to both buyers and sellers initially. Then sellers will pay a small commission on successful online transactions. "I am convinced smaller companies can prosper on the internet. There are so many ways the technology of the internet can be leveraged to give smaller companies the buying power of bigger companies," says Pirouz.He argues that the new online service will quickly extend the network of buyers and sellers smaller companies in the UK normally have access to, and will potentially open up a lot of new markets for them. For reassurance there will also be a feedback section on the sites, so that companies can get first hand accounts of the quality of service provided by registered online sellers. The potential of mondus.com has won support from the UK-based Federation of Small Businesses. "It is very timely. We have 5 million small businesses in the UK and the quicker they can access information like this, the better," said a spokesman.But, he added, members of the federation were still grappling with some of the virtual difficulties presented by the internet. For instance you cannot feel, touch or smell products that are offered online. In the States, smaller businesses are already making use of similar web-based services provided by organisations such as Bizbuyer.com and Killerbiz.com.However, the founders of mondus.com maintain that their system is easier to use. Based in Santa Monica, California, Bizbuyer.com gives small companies online quotes for a comprehensive range of products and services covering human resources, telecommunications, and internet services.Currently there are 4,000 suppliers in 19 different categories.  A  s a sign of how this area of the internet could develop, the chief executive of eBay.com , Meg Whitman has joined Bizbuyer's board of directors. Whitman says: "Bizbuyer.com is doing for small business what eBay did for consumers - defining a new more efficient way of connecting buyers and sellers."New media analysts in the States are now talking about the emergence of a lucrative e-commerce space on the internet and that space has been identified as one to be filled by business to business online services. Killerbiz.com has announced plans to expand its online marketplace to introduce business forums so that small and medium sized business leaders can talk on line with their peers. It will also introduce an information centre specialising in economic and technology issues that affect its customers.The company is also preparing to launch a human resources section with a recruitment service which will research multiple CV databases to find suitable employees. The developments in the US have not gone unnoticed in Britain. Next month, buy.co.uk, the site which gives consumers information on best value offers to help reduce household expenditure, is launching its own business buying service. The founders of buy.co's business service have drawn on the knowledge of the UK-based Cost Reduction Partnership which advises big companies like Asda and MTV how to make the best purchasing deals.One of the chief advantages of the site will be that smaller companies will be able to benefit from discount buying knowledge which was previously available only to larger companies . When it comes to purchasing deals, managing director of Buy.co.uk, David Graham, says bigger companies will always have the edge because of the clout of their budgets. But digital technology is making its impact.He says: "The internet is closing the gap between big business and smaller companies. It is giving smaller businesses the opportunity to find better value deals and become better informed." The emerging online marketplaces for smaller and medium sized companies are precisely devised to meet their requirements. If you want to lease equipment via Bizbuyer.com, for example, you are asked to quickly fill in a needs assessment form online. It asks you to detail what equipment you want, the quantity, the type of company you are, the length of the lease and so on. The internet is gearing up to redefine the relationships between smaller companies and their suppliers. Soon big on the internet will no longer be beautiful.
Still aliveRe your review of Space Bastards (Games watch September 23): your comment "graphics fit for an Amiga" casts a very unfair light on a much misunderstood platform which always excelled at graphics straight out of its box, unlike the PC which needed a graphics card to perform any decent screen tricks at all.I am aware that the Amiga games market is minute now, but I have no interest in games whatsoever. However, you might be interested to know that the Amiga models of the 90s were a far cry from the early 500s and 1000s.You might already be aware that they were capable of displaying 256,000 colours simultaneously with their built-in AGA chipset running in HAM8 mode, but you must have missed out on the fact that the Amiga was and often still is the machine of choice for non-gaming graphics applications.At home, I run a small video production business,   and to that end I run an Amiga A1200 with a 50MHz Motorola 68030 processor, 32MB of memory and a 1.8GB hard drive, and two Amiga A4000 machines. These are used for 3D graphics and image processing, as well as audio recording and editing plus internet access.I work full-time at the Imperial War Museum's audio-visual office. There, we use six or seven expanded Amiga A4000s (in preference to PCs) for 24 bit image processing, production of 2D and 3D animations and graphics, simulated rostrum camera work, slideshow production, multimedia authoring, and broadcast quality non-linear video and sound editing.Our office work is all done on Amigas and the Museum's 15-screen visitor information   system and two interactive multimedia database applications are also Amiga-driven.So please be kinder to the poor Amiga - especially in its hour of need when Gateway has knifed the loyal Amiga community in the back.Steve ClarkMember, KickstartAmiga User GroupClotsDuncan Steel (The Y2K bug in all our calendars) is wrong when he states that there are no clotting factors numbered I to VII. Of course there are.Clotting factors are numbered from I to XIII excepting Factor VI which was assigned to a putative factor that proved to be a complex of other factors. Number IV was assigned to calcium but as it is not a   specific clotting factor, this number is no longer used. These numbers have nothing to do with the calendars or with the day of circumcision. They were assigned more or less according to the time of identification of each one.Dr Steel implied that Factor VIII deficient (haemophilic) babies would not bleed on the eighth day after birth but that is not true. Haemophilic babies will bleed at any time.The most common cause of neonatal bleeding is not Factor VIII deficiency but deficiency of vitamin K which is required for the production of several clotting factors (II, VII, IX and X). This abnormality is corrected by breast feeding within a week; thus there is no excessive bleeding on the eighth day.Dr Gautam Majumdargautam@majumdar.demon.co.ukiPassed overJack Schofield (Online, September 23) omits to mentioniPass. Like him, I travel frequently with my work, and like him I used to be a member of CompuServe.However, I often need to attach photo files to my emails, but the receiver frequently has problems opening those files because of the way CompuServe encodes them.I switched to Direct Connection, purely because it offers the iPass service (as do   14 other UK internet service providers). Through some free dial-up software, I can connect to my existing ISP from every major city in 150 countries, using my existing email software and browser.I pay for the amount of time that I am using the software, but it is cheap. During three weeks in Australia when I picked up email on an almost daily basis, I managed to work up a bill of approximately US$12.Of course, once outside the UK, most country's local calls are flat rate. From Sydney I sent back 15 photographs and was charged 50c by my hotel. That's less than 25p.Finally, I rarely carry any telephone adaptors with me. My modem lead ends in a US-style plug that either fits straight into a wall socket, or the spare data socket of a modern hotel phone. I also carry a small plastic box from Tandy, which has a US phone socket at either end. My modem lead goes in one end, and the lead going into the bottom of the phone goes into the other. I have yet to find a telephone that doesn't connect like this.Simon Grossetgrosset@dircon.co.ukFree for all?It was interesting to read your Feedback regarding free domain registration with BT connect to business (September 23).Nominet reduced its price    for members to &#163;5 on September 1 in an effort to increase domain name registration. Nearly all ISPs in the UK are members of Nominet UK and are familiar with the technical and contractual details of the registration process. As stated on theNominet web site: "The price of direct registrations will remain at &#163;80 (plus VAT)."We have been preparing our free domain name registration offer before September 1 but are very happy to help Nominet achieve its targets.Further information about BT connect to business is available atwww.btconnect.com.Karl Potter, BTkarl.potter@bt.comNot only does BT connect to business make extravagant claims about how much a free domain name is worth, it also obviously only wants people to join who have not yet obtained a domain name.I am informed that to transfer my company's domain name will cost &#163;40. which I accept. However, in addition to the &#163;12 monthly charge you also will pay a further &#163;5 a month for the privilege.Strange: I thought that by having paid all the registration fees, I would actually save BT a few pounds.Paul CampbellBristol
Monsters to the rescuePok&eacute;mon Red, BlueGame Boy Colour &#163;24.99 NintendoAlthough 1989 will be remembered for many things, the launch of the Nintendo Game Boy may not be one. However, this hand-held games console, having beaten off flashier competitors such as the Sega GameGear and Atari Lynx, is celebrating its 10th anniversary by selling better than ever.Upgrades, especially the move to colour, have helped, but its success is mainly down to software. Tetris was the title that sold the Game Boy to the masses, but the extra beef of the colour model has increased developers' ambitions.For example, Crawfish is squeezing in PC spy-sim Rainbow Six, while Datel's SmartCom cartridge offers personal organiser software, complete with Game Boy-to-Game Boy email.But the big thing is Pok&eacute;mon. Sales have gone up 250% since its launch, and when it reaches the UK tomorrow, this global craze is likely to be the bane of parents.Since its launch in Japan four years ago, Pok&eacute;mon, short for Pocket Monsters, has not only spawned a worldwide industry but has kept Nintendo's profits high even though the N64 has suffered poor Japanese sales. It was initially introduced as a Game Boy cartridge, selling 12 million in Japan, but has since spawned everything from lunchboxes and toys to card games and feature films.Difficult as it may be to ignore the promotional hype, the game itself is worthy of praise. Best described as a mix of role playing game (RPG), nurturing and conkers, Pokemon is extremely addictive.Your aim is to traverse the game-world catching the monsters, by battle or trade, with the ultimate challenge being to retrieve all 151. Your monsters evolve when used in battle and players must tactically nurture a decent spread of Pok&eacute;mon to beat rivals. Numerous sub-plots and RPG-style   characterisation are further pleasing elements.But it's the inclusion of the trading aspect which is the real reason for its success, with Pok&eacute;mon launching as two cartridges. Both the "red" and "blue" titles contain the same game but each has 10 exclusive creatures. To complete the set, you'll need to trade, via link-cable, with owners of the other cart.When dealing is over you can challenge your opponent to a conkers-style battle - my level 50 ivysaur versus your level 45 pickachu? - and it's this human interaction that has been setting playgrounds (as well as some offices) alight.Although the excessive merchandising rankles, the basic game is worthy of its success. With all the talk of game engines and texture mapping and so on, there is something refreshing about this superlative gameplay which makes you ignore the cutesy 8-bit graphics.With the N64 nearing its final year of market relevance and its next-generation successor, codenamed Dolphin, not likely to appear until 2001, the Game Boy, and Pok&eacute;mon in particular, is vital for Nintendo.Despite a multitude of platform and puzzle games, the Game Boy's combination of Pok&eacute;mon games and some innovative software should see it celebrate a few more happy anniversaries yet.  (GH)Thud and blunderDarkstonePC CD-rom &#163;39.99 Gathering of DevelopersAt last, the role-playing game enters the 3D accelerated era. Never before have sword-and-sorcerers enjoyed such captivating lighting effects, 360 isometric rotation, graphics that update to reflect what characters are carrying and footprints that trail the blood of their latest kill.While it's all pretty to look at in a nightmare-in-Legoland kind of way, there's little to engage the brain. Quest-solving is basically a game of fetch. Interaction with non-player characters is so limited it's mindless, and progress is generally too easy. Perhaps this is partly because it's all so familiar; Darkstone isn't so much in the tradition of Gauntlet, Diablo and Might &amp; Magic as in breach of copyright. One of the game's biggest selling points is the way the worlds and quests change with each new game. This, of course, depends on you ever finishing the first game. (AB)
So there I am, stuck in the middle behind a caravan. All attempts to upgrade to the outside lane are thwarted by a seamless wall of Vauxhall Vectras. Just what is it that makes other drivers so consistently ignorant, I ask my steering wheel. Only then, a chink of a possibility appears: a young woman in a Rover holds back and flashes me out. Grasping the chance, I zip round the caravan and press the dashboard button marked "thanks". In my rear screen, a board spells out the word and the girl behind basks in acknowledgement. Isn't being polite just the loveliest thing?Of course, this is just fantasy. But it might be a good idea. When road rage emerged into the English language without indicating, the fuel behind the phenomenon was identified as bad manners in motion, from the snub of a cyclist's unraised hand all the way up the scale to the disabled space stealer in the Ferrari.But just how rude are our roads? Officialdom seems uninterested. The Department of Transport, Environment and the Regions is currently researching aggresive driving but for now could only offer: "If drivers are being bad-mannered, it's not something that we would observe, though it may well relate to issues such as speeding," I was politely informed. The Institute of Advanced Motorists is more accommodating. Assistant chief examiner Trevor Poxon believes most of us turn savage in the gap between A and B and that considerate behaviour is more than a garnish to good driving, it is an essential component: "Bad manners show   poor awareness of others around you. The highway code urges you to be courteous, but the 10 commandments of early editions of the police's road craft manual go further. They state it is important to "extend courtesy to other road users AND acknowledge the courtesies extended by other drivers."It's the acknowledgement bit that has most of us chewing our airbags with ire: you wait to allow traffic to come around an obstruction on the opposite side of the road. You could exercise your right to make the oncoming cars wait, but no, you wave them through. And as they pass (school-run mums are best at this) each driver offers you a grimace of plastic indifference. Why bother, you think, resolving to drive like Toad of Toad Hall for the rest of the day.Commercial General Union's research of insurance payouts indicates that 47% of all accidents on the road might be avoided if we were all a bit more pleasant to each other. Conrad King, psychologist on driving behaviour for the RAC Foundation, goes even further. "10 people a day are killed on UK roads, yet nine of those deaths cannot be attributed to mechanical failure. We're educated about how to mechanically master a car, but we fail to understand how our emotions change when we're driving."In social situations, humans make appeasement gestures by habit, but once behind the wheel a driver will "lose common decency because of the sense of empowerment", King explains. "Drivers undergo a personality shift towards aggression, extroversion and paranoia; we forget that   all those other tin boxes contain people, too."Working with the Campaign for Courtesy (formerly the Polite Society), the RAC organises national courtesy days during which motorway message display boards declare kindly advice, such as "Don't hog the middle lane." Indeed, a nationwide poll by the organisation shows that the traditional top three rage-rousers are middle-lane hogs, followed very closely by tailgaters and, in third position (but not if they can help it), drivers who cut in on metre 99 of a 100-metre lane merge. In 1999 though, the queue jumper has been usurped by the rubber-necker, a voyeur whose pleasure is identifying types of ambulance. The new number one bugbear is the hands-on mobile phone user.If one man could make all our rudeness stop it could be the Reverend Ian Gregory, the original founder of the Polite Society. Ian drives an ageing Vauxhall Cavalier but flatly refuses to use the motorway because of our mobile mores: "As for driving to London, I'd sooner walk there," he says. To be a better driver, Gregory says, we should read the highway code with Luke, chapter six, which offers the universal driving truth "do unto others as you would do unto yourself".Perhaps we'd all be inspired to be nicer if we had some nice-guy driving heroes. But motorsport eschews them - witness the uproar that ensued after David Coulthard's noble decision to let team-mate Mika Hakkinen through at the beginning of last year's Australian Grand Prix. "People automatically assume that being a good driver implies you are assertive and aggressive," says Steve Johnson of Drive and Survive, which trains 32,000 fleet-drivers a year and uses the catchphrase "Go the extra mile and put on a smile.""The driving test teaches people nothing about diffusing confrontational situations. We preach the importance of establishing eye contact, even via door mirrors, and being ready to accept you've done something wrong. Sometimes it's not your fault, but you have to be big enough to back down. Women are definitely better at polite driving, because they're more willing to accept information and quicker to recognise their mistakes. Male pride can definitely get in the way."Perhaps the best antidote to male pride - and the closest gadget to a "thanks" button - is a device sold by Urbane Systems, called the Envoy Vehicle Courtesy System. The gadget plugs into most cigarette lighters and consists of a digital message board and a remote command pad. The board has three buttons to access the EVC's limited vocabulary. It is designed to "combat" road rage, so the choice of words is THANKS, SORRY and HELP! (which might be useful if the first two announcements don't work). No other words can be created - for obvious reasons. THANKS is provided, the company says, to "amaze drivers who show you courtesy on the road". On test, I found that they were so gobsmacked they nearly veered off the road.Flashing SORRY can be more contentious. The apology is provided so you can make "clear acknowledgement of your mistakes," but in the wrong hands, like mine, it was open to ironic interpretation. For example, I jumped a queue by driving down the middle of the road and then flashed the SORRY in anticipation of another driver being so charmed that they'd let me in. It worked splendidly.By the same token, I found that a quick THANKS was a wry deterrent for a motorway driver who showed gynaecological interest in my exhaust pipe. Despite the potential for abuse though, the RAC's Conrad King suspects the message board could end the communication problems between car and lorry drivers. "The 'How's My Driving?' hotlines   used by lorry firms are too passive and removed - we've never heard of a driver who has been disciplined as a result of a phone call. An instant message could nip any problem in the bud and might be a good way of helping drivers understand the actions of a driver who is hard to see."Nevertheless, the IAM reckons best gadget for saying you're sorry is your hand. But even then, Trevor Poxon warns that it must be used carefully: "You have to make sure that all your fingers are properly extended and you have to exaggerate the gesture. Not showing your hand properly can make things a lot worse."All drivers who can't be bothered to lift a finger, take note...&#149; The Envoy ECVS costs £39.99 + £3.95 postage (available by calling 0131 550 3773)
If you think that designer labels are a con then I've found the perfect executive car for you. It's the new and much improved Vauxhall Omega, and this one is so good that it ranks alonside the competition from BMW and Mercedes.But despite its qualities the Omega is still only a humble Vauxhall, which means that it's cheaper than the competition. Prices start at £19,705 and rise to £32,830, depending on specification, and all the variants look like good value in comparison with the equivalents from Germany. The cheapest BMW 5-Series won't dominate your drive for a penny less than £24,000, while the cheapest E-Class Merc comes in at over £26,000.This isn't just about money however, because the Omega is now really excellent to drive. Vauxhall have sensibly conceded that the Omega is never going to be a real status-wagon in the great German tradition, so instead they're emphasising their car's sporting pedigree.Spend £25,910 and you'll be able to buy the new MV6 model, which sports lowered suspension, a 208bhp V6 engine and great gum-ball tyres.The tweaks have worked too, because this new Omega handles and holds the road at least as well as a mid-range BMW 5-Series, and even comes very close in terms of ride comfort. The only real let-down is the engine. It's smooth and quiet, but you really have to put your foot down if you need any real go, and I think that the apparently less powerful 170bhp BMW 523i feels just as quick.Vauxhall claim that they've changed 3,000 out of the 8,000 components in the Omega, though you'd be hard pressed to tell that from the outside. There are new front and back ends, which Vauxhall say are "edgier" than before. But the entire interior is now far more up-market, and the climate control system is one of the best I've used (if you drive into a polluted area this car will automatically re-circulate the air that you're already breathing, so I'd advise against too many cheese and onion snacks).With the exception of the under-rated new Astra the Omega has always been Vauxhall's best car - and it still is. And despite it's lack of obvious badge-appeal the Omega is hardly down-market, because no less a personage than the Queen often drives one - a fact which must at least impress the truest and bluest variety of car snob.But if I was spending my own money I'd go for a German badge - because Omegas have always lost their value far more quickly than Beemers and Mercs. I simply couldn't put my own money into a car which could lose as much as two-thirds of its value over 3 years and 60,000 miles. But if it's your employer's money you're spending then you should plump for an Omega.
What do you drive?A very boring, beige Vauxhall Astra that is about 15 years old.What does it say about you?Nothing at all.What do you like about it?It's the safest, oldest, cheapest car and there aren't many miles on the clock.What don't you like about it?The colour, it's so boring.What do you use your car for?I use it for collecting and transporting materials. I don't drive for   pleasure. It's purely to get from A to B. It's a hatchback, so I can stuff any old rubbish in the back.What was your first car?A pale yellow 70s Citro&#235;n Ami estate, very elegant - probably a classic car now. I bought it from a friend of mine who is a Citro&#235;n mechanic.Any driving test tales?Failed several times and with each test I stalled many times. I think the examiner realised I was very nervous.Have you ever crashed/got a speeding ticket/got any points etc?I was involved in a serious accident driving in torrential rain at midnight in Cardiff. I was only doing five miles an hour but because I couldn't see very well I crossed a junction and collided with another car that was driving very fast. I ended up in hospital for six weeks with a shattered pelvis. I wasn't able to drive for six months. It was very shocking, especially as I had two passengers with me who were   luckily unhurt. I got to keep my clean licence even after the crash as the police agreed it was such an awful night, it wasn't that I was a bad driver.What kind of driver are you?Fine but a bit erratic. The accident has made me more nervous.Have you ever had sex in your car?No, sadly. I don't ever feel like it.What would be your dream car and why?A Citro&#235;n DS - they're very long and elegant and feel very French.Who would be your favourite passenger?Paul Auster is my favourite writer   and I'm sure he'd be a very interesting person to share a journey with.Have you ever experienced road rage?More as a passenger, when I've had stormy boyfriends.What music do you listen to on the road?None, as my radio was stolen and the aerial was ripped off. I listen to other people's ghetto blasters.Any bad habits?Always hard to judge yourself but I suppose I sometimes suffer from lapses of concentration.What sort of state do you keep your car in?It's covered in pigeon shit. It's been stolen twice - the second time within four hours of it being stolen the first time. It's been vandalised and ransacked. It's like a workhorse. I'll probably have it until it drops to bits.What's in the boot/glove compartment?In the boot are the remains of sculptural forays - bits of chalk and charcoal. The glove compartment only contains old receipts.&#149; Cornelia Parker's latest exhibition runs at the Frith Street Gallery, London until 29 October (0171 494 1550).
A cross-party committee of MPs yesterday rounded on the government for failing to carry out proper research into the possible dangers posed by mobile phones.In a report on health hazards connected with the phones, MPs on the commons science and technology committee said government spending on research programmes, amounting to less than &#163;400,000, fell "seriously short of adequacy".The MPs concluded: "It is essential that there is independent, appropriately-funded research which is seen to be objective and not to be directed by commercial interests."The Medical Research Council was carrying out no research into mobile phones, the report revealed, while the department of health was spending &#163;60,000.The National Radiological Protection Board was spending &#163;300,000 compared with &#163;3m being spent by the mobile phone industry.The committee said there was no evidence to prove that microwave radiation from mobile phones posed a health hazard. But they recommended, as a precaution, that emissions from mobile phones be cut to a fifth of their present level to bring Britain into line with the rest of the EU.The MPs said: "We agree that there is no validated evidence to justify lower exposure limits. Nevertheless the extent to which many are calling for more research justifies a precautionary reduction in maximum exposure guidelines."
The millennium bug could wreak havoc with the economies of developing countries, slashing growth, pushing up inflation and triggering large-scale capital flight, the International Monetary Fund said yesterday.The fund's chief economist, Michael Mussa, said that it was planning to introduce a special Y2K facility to help countries through possible financial crises. "This is a question we take very seriously," he said.Although the fund believes that most countries are relatively well prepared, its worst-case scenario envisages a temporary slowdown in growth of two percentage points, a one-point increase in inflation and a 15% drop in foreign reserves.According to an IMF study of 17 countries accounting for 60% of GDP in developing economies, the biggest risks are to power generation systems and distribution sectors, where "exposure is relatively high but preparations appear to be relatively weak".Although the IMF plays down suggestions of chaos on financial markets in the new year, it does not discount the possibility that this could occur in some, less-prepared countries. "In such cases, there could be a need for the IMF to provide supplementary financial assistance to help alleviate pressure on a country's foreign reserves, enhance confidence and limit contagion," it said.&#149; The UK government is on track to be fully compliant by the end of the year, with only the ministry of defence and foreign office not liable to be bug-free until December, Margaret Beckett, the cabinet's coordinator, will disclose later today.Meanwhile, a survey of 2000 adults found that awareness of the bug has reached an all-time high of 93%, while concern about its effects is reaching its lowest-ever level.
If a few British bands make it into the US charts, we love to talk about a British invasion. When our stars do the business in Hollywood, we mutter, albeit ironically, about how the British are coming, again. When it comes to e-commerce, the traffic is mostly in the other direction. As far as online retail is concerned, the Americans are coming.Many of the big names are already here. BothAmazon, the leading online retailer, andeBay, the leading online auction site, have .co.uk operations. They will be joined by the hugely successful toy retail companyeToys this autumn.It's not hard to see why these companies are coming over here. There's the shared language, obviously. And many of these companies' stock values are based in part on business plans with global dimensions. So they need to expand into Europe to keep the markets happy.The UK net market is becoming increasingly attractive. Thanks to the free internet service providers (ISPs), 10 million Britons are online and, according to the recent Which? Online survey, they are increasingly interested in net shopping. Some 40% of net users have tried buying online, with 10% describing themselves as regular net shoppers. Those figures will rise soon as the 3m net users who've come online in the past year try their hand at buying online. (It takes around a year for someone to feel comfortable enough online to move on to shopping.)At first sight, the companies best placed are American online retailers. The likes of Amazon and eToys know what makes people buy online. They have well-established net brands and huge amounts of money. How can British companies compete?US companies will not automatically come out ahead over here, according to   William Reeve, head of internet practice atFletcher Research. They have to deal with local market differences. "And local differences can happen in all sorts of funny, unpredictable ways."Americans look at the UK and think, 'we can still use our credit card systems', for example. But they find that the privacy legislation here is different. Regulations, customers and the delivery infrastructure are all different."The failure to realise all   this can help UK companies, according to John Croft, chief executive of Infront, whose retail sites - like the online bookshopAlphabet Streetand the music shopAudio Street- have done remarkably well, with minimal advertising (Croft claims that the latter is the most effective music retail site in the UK). "The Americans tend to have a view that because something is successful in the States, everybody's going to love it in Europe. That's not the case."Croft points out that his sites emphasise local content. Though this is aimed primarily at UK users, it also pulls in buyers from abroad, especially from the US. Audiostreet sells a significant amount to Americans keen to track the latest British bands   and DJs. However, American competitors can easily compete at the level of content, especially if they hire UK teams (as most do).According to Judith Catton, marketing manager at Amazon UK, local content (as in book reviews by British journalists) is vital because it "gives that perception of being close".Oddly enough, one criticism levelled at the Amazon UK site is that it is too British, that it hasn't reproduced some of the features of the US site, like personalised recommendations.Even as it competes aggressively on price - like the summer giveaway of free books - Bertelsmann's book site BOL is offering more personalisation services.Amazon has also been slow to move into the other product areas it offers in the US such as music and video. In contrastWH Smithsells music, games and videos (via its Paradise sites) as well as books. Infront has sites for music and DVDs, with a games site due to open in October.Croft points out that though Amazon UK announced in June that it was going to do a music site, one has yet to open. Croft argues that Amazon's structure is   too bureaucratic. Decisions need to be signed off by the head office in Seattle. So UK companies for once have the chance to be the more dynamic outfits.Catton dismisses this along with claims that bureaucracy was behind the recent departure of managing director Simon Murdoch. "We are not a bureaucratic company - we are growing too fast for that."With competition from a big multinational (Bertelsmann), well established high street names (WH Smith, Waterstones) and clever local internet pure-play operations like Infront, Amazon UK has a fight on its hands.However, the fight is on terms set by Amazon. All the above companies have taken on board Amazon's approach to online retail and are competing on what it sees as the key areas - price, convenience and customer service.In other market sectors, it's easier to discern a difference in approach between US and UK companies. Take online toyshops. This autumn, the big US toy site eToys will launch in the UK. Last Christmas it was the third most visited site on the web in the US. It has floated successfully on the stock market and now has huge amounts of money to spend on conquering Europe, with the UK being the most obvious "beach-head".Marketing director for Europe James Bidwell stresses that eToys UK has a British team, and will feature British toys. "However, what makes eToys different is that we are an internet-only company. We fully understand the internet. There is nowhere   better to understand the net from that the west coast of America."The company will offer a huge range of toys, simple site design, good prices and the right information. If a toy requires batteries or an accessory, buyers will be alerted and linked to the necessary part of the store.Toyzone, which has been promoting itself as eToys' main UK competitor, seems to be stressing content much more than transactions.Matthew Freud's firm, Freud Communications, has linked up with established toy retailers the Goodall family who are behind the Kids' Play Factory and Tom Hunter, founder of the Sports Division chain, to set up the site. He says it will deliver content aimed at "capturing their hearts and minds".Once Toyzone has become a must-see site for kids, it will then aim to move their parents onto purchasing.For example, kids will be able to cruise the site assembling a "Santa's list" of toys to email to their parents and any other relative."Pester power is sort of what we've built our business on," says Freud, who says that Toyzone will benefit from the knowledge that Freud Communications has gained from promoting kids' entertainment brands like Nickelodeon, Disney and Sesame Street.He argues that this approach is more British in that it plays to our national strengths (clever marketing and media literacy) and that eToys' more transactional approach reflects America's   well-established embrace of distance shopping and mail order and won't necessarily work over here.James Bidwell is fairly reticent about how eToys will do here, stressing that the company is in the UK to learn. Fletcher Research's William Reeve expects eToys to do well, but says it won't dominate and may find that it needs to partner with real world UK companies. In contrast, Toyzone will also have a series of real stores where new users can try out net shopping for free.Matthew Freud says his main worry is the huge amount of money US sites have. It's hard to compete against companies that can buy customers and don't need to make an immediate profit.Another problem, according to Steve Bennett, founder ofJungle.com, the UK retail site, is that American companies experiencing a slight slowdown now see buying UK companies as a way of keeping the stockmarket happy."It's hard in the UK. You get a lot of pressure from the States. Then any German company that wants to expand, before they go to the US, they'll test the water in the UK- so we get battered from every side."But he feels one factor is on his side. "Don't underestimate how patriotic the British buying public are. In our last two catalogues for Software Warehouse &#91;Jungle's parent company&#93; we've made a big point of our Britishness and we've had such good feedback."Other UK retailers agree that UK buyers are different from Americans. Many need quality guarantees and assurances about security. That's something that can help established British brands, says Fletcher Research's William Reeve.Perhaps the real way to   compete with US companies is to find an idea they haven't yet thought of and take it over there. That's the approach taken by Brent Hoberman and Martha Lane Fox with Last Minute.com, which has made its name selling cheap holidays and tickets but is now moving into presenting net shopping as the perfect option for time-poor, stressed-out workers. Last Minute is expanding into Europe but has its sights set further afield.Hoberman points out that many UK sites are "me too" operations, in which companies are trying to take American ideas. The problem is that you can't then expand into the US market."When you can't enter the US market, you're never going to be able to get that market power. That's why we're going to enter the US market -so that we can become big enough, quick enough. Otherwise you're always going to have an eBay that's valued at $11bn versus a QXL valued at under $1bn. So they can always swallow you up."Of course, coming up with an original idea is a tall order. For retailers facing strong US competition, the way to survive seems to be to concentrate on the UK market first but to look away from the Atlantic and across the channel instead."There's a massive opportunity for Europe to put up a few very successful competitors to the Americans," comments Infront's John Croft. "That probably requires some sort of European consolidation. But why shouldn't a few successful e-commerce companies in Europe merge and create a real force, a pan-European force, which the Americans would find very difficult to compete with? I'm bullish about our chances."&#149; Jim McClellan is the author of the Guardian Guide To The Internet and the Guardian Guide To Shopping On The Internet, both published by 4th Estate next month.
Orange leapOrange is to design and build its own portable video phone, for launch next March. The new palmtop device will use the Microsoft CE 3.0 operating system, and, as well as standard telephony, will offer videoconferencing, fax, email and internet access, handwriting recognition and a digital organiser.Users will be able to store video stills, record around a minute of video and transfer data at up to 64 Kb/s, aided by compression technology developed at the University of Strathclyde. It is expected    to go on sale for around &#163;500, pitching it straight at offline handhelds from players like Psion and Palm Computing. Orange has also revealed some of the services for its first Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) phones which go on sale at the end of October. Users will be able to read the full text of news and sports reports, call up traffic reports, ask for updates to be sent to their phones, and access listings for TV and cinemas.Power offThe dream of high-speed internet access through your power supply faded this week, after the company aiming to deliver the technology was wound up. Nor.Web was set up in March 1998 by Nortel and UU to develop Digital Powerline technology, which was estimated could be up to 10 times faster than telephone modems. But they decided to quit because of the imminent arrival of other high-speed internet solutions, including ADSL, and the unwillingness of other power companies to install the technology.HauntedThe ghost of Apple past is haunting its latest product, the "supercomputer on a desktop" Power Mac G4. Delays in supplies of its super fast processor from Motorola mean Apple will not fulfil all of the 150,000 orders taken since the launch only three weeks ago. Previous launches, most notably its PowerBook ranges, have also been dogged by supply problems. The problem will hit third-quarter results, interim CEO Steve Jobs said, but stressed it was "a temporary issue" and Apple hoped to catch up with demand early in its fourth quarter. Apple's share price fell more than $9 from its Monday all-time high of $79.Amiga crackedAmiga's new president and chief executive Thomas J Schmidt has dashed fans' hopes of a new system. In a letter published on theAmiga website, Schmidt says: "We have decided to work with business partners who will deliver our software technology on their systems, rather than enter the hardware business directly." The Amiga once dominated    the UK home computer market but it has struggled to find backing. It was taken over by Commodore, which went bust, and Escom, which went bust, then picked up by its current parent, Gateway.  Amiga was planning new hardware running new Amiga software on top of the fast QNX operating system, but switched at the last minute to Linux. Gateway was always more interested in using Amiga technologies in "information appliances".  The latest "death of the Amiga" story confirms what Gateway boss Ted Waitt told Online in May: "It's definitely not a computer business".MS virusA nasty virus is being circulated in electronic mail purporting to be from Microsoft Support. It is in an attachment called Y2Kcount.exe, so    if you get it, don't decode and run it: no harm is done if it's deleted unread. Microsoft says it doesn't circulate programs using email attachments but puts them on its website for downloading, or on CD-rom. In the US, Microsoft has announced Works Suite 2000, the next version of its home productivity software suite. The bundle includes Word, the Encarta Encyclopedia, Money, Home Publishing, Expedia Streets &amp; Trips, Picture It! Express and a "task launcher". The user decides what they want to do, the task launcher picks the best program and loads a suitable template. A UK version is expected.That'll do nicelyAmerican Express has launched a smart card for the internet in the US. The "revolving debt card" comes with eWallet software to store purchasing data.  The first drawback with using a card on the net is that there's no way to read it, so American Express is giving card-holders a free magnetic card reader to attach to their PCs. (In the long term, card readers will be built as standard.) The second problem is that no websites support the Blue card. However, American Express plans to announce a    list of sites in November. Seewww.americanexpress.com/blueThin is inCompaq UK plans to add two handheld palmtop computers to its range on Monday. The Aero 1530 is only half an inch (1.27cm) thick - the thinnest Windows CE machine yet. It has 16MB of memory and a 16-tone monochrome display. The top-of-the-range Aero 2180 has 24MB of memory and a colour screen.AdmiredGeneral Electric (GE) is the most admired company in the world, according to the third annual survey by Fortune magazine. Microsoft came second, swapping places with Coca Cola, which placed third. Intel (4th) and Cisco (8th) also made the top 10.Top 50 - notThe Lycos search engine has started publishing theTop 50search terms used on its site over the previous week. It's a fascinating guide to popular culture, with Pok&eacute;mon, the Backstreet Boys, Britney Spears and the WWF featuring prominently. However, Lycos admits it has excluded "pornographic, four-letter words and otherwise lewd queries, including names of decidedly adult film stars."
American computer company bosses are like buses: you wait ages then half a dozen turn up at once. Friday was Oracle's Larry Ellison (famous for having an ego the size of a planet), Tuesday was Intel's Andy Grove, and Red Hat's Bob Young will be along any minute. Even more turned up in Paris last week, including Larry's mate Steve Jobs of Apple, and Compaq's new head Michael Capellas.Compaq was noticeable by its absence from the "concept PC" show at Intel's conference in Palm Springs, California, less than a month ago. But Capellas said it was working to produce some iMac-style machines before Christmas:   "Yes, you will see us absolutely follow that pattern. We're going to really, really drive innovative design."Compaq is the world's largest PC manufacturer, and research firm IDC reckons it shipped 3.8 million of the 26 million PCs sold just in the year's second quarter.It wasn't such a good week for Britain's Psion. Profits for the past six months plunged from &#163;4.1m to &#163;57,000 after deductions, as turnover fell by 12% to &#163;64.2m. Palmtop sales fell 34% to &#163;24.5m because demand for the Series 5 crumbled as buyers waited for the 5mx. For comparison, 3Com's Palm achieved sales worth $570m (&#163;350m) in its last financial year.Still, US president Bill Clinton probably did us a favour: he stopped trying to pretend that the ban on the export of secure cryptography served any useful purpose. US software houses will now be able to ship products with built-in encryption the CIA can't crack in seconds, which should help e-commerce.
No matter where you travel, no matter how exotic the spot, you'll probably find someone hunched over a notebook computer catching up with their electronic mail. Probably me.Sad? Maybe. But if the net has become part of your everyday life, you won't want to stop using it just because you're on holiday. In fact, access may be even more important, because it lets you stay in touch with the football, family and friends.And while you may not want to spend hours browsing the web, sites like the Guardian andBBC Newsprovide a quick way of keeping up with what's going on back home.Things have got easier in    the past couple of years. The posher hotels now have business centres with internet connections, and many towns have internet cafes where streams of non-nerdy people stop by just to pick up theirHotmail.Nowadays, many free web-based email services, like Hotmail, can also be used to pick up conventional (POP3) email as well.While cybercafes are useful, it's even better if you can take a computer with you. It needn't be a burden: even a handheld can be used to read email, though sending replies can be a bit tedious if it doesn't have a decent keyboard. The Psion Series 5 has the smallest keyboard I find almost usable, but the larger Windows CE-based H/PC Pro machines from Compaq, Hewlett-Packard, NEC et al are also worth a   look. H/PC Pro machines offer the "instant on" capability of a hand-held with almost-full-sized keyboards and screens, and batteries that last all day. (You can recharge them overnight.) The built in software includes "pocket" versions of Microsoft's Office programs, and the Internet Explorer browser, which makes it easy to get online.But going direct to the internet has one big drawback. You probably don't have an account that works outside the UK, which means making a long-distance call to collect email. Hardly any British internet service providers (ISPs) have set up "roaming" facilities so you can connect via a local call in a number of foreign countries. UUnet-Pipex is an exception and even has details on itswebsite, but always make a note of the phone numbers before you go.For the past decade I have solved this problem by using CompuServe or, in the past four years, America OnLine. AOL has dial-up access numbers in dozens of countries from Argentina to Zambia, though there's an extra charge of &#163;2.50-&#163;16.00 an hour for using them (Keyword: access). AOL's software takes less   than a minute to set up, and lets you keep lots of different locations for re-use. Unfortunately, it's available only for the PC and Apple Macintosh, not for CE machines or Psions or 3Com palmtops.Even if you have the right phone number and the right software, physical problems can still get in the way of an internet connection. In any hotel room, it's a fair bet that the mains socket will be some way from the phone plug, and that you'll need adapters for both.It's generally easy to buy phone adapters as long as your modem cable ends in an American plug. But some dim-witted companies still supply cables with British phone jacks for which adapters are hard to get, so start with a UK-US plug. If you're very lucky, an American phone jack will go straight into a spare socket on the telephone handset. But if you travel widely, tryTeleAdaptfor the more obscure adapters, or buy Avro Pacific's kit, which covers 150 countries. (TeleAdapt was set up by a Gordon Brown (not the Chancellor) after he read an article in the Guardian on the problems of accessing email while overseas.)Yes, it may be possible to use a mobile phone instead.   But the connection is so slow (9.6Kbits/sec against 33.6K or better), you'll wish you hadn't bothered, even before you're presented with the bill.With AOL and some other email software, you can send and receive email automatically in a "flashsession" or "blink", usually for the cost of a local call. However, before you start making long calls to the internet, remember to check the hotel's phone charges. There are some rip-off merchants around, especially in the UK.Nowadays I find it's useful to have web access as well as email. The web lets you look up timetables and tourist guides, find out about local events, check weather reports, and get directions to the airportwww.airwise.com. You can also use it to find the addresses of the nearest cybercafe: the site atwww.cybercafes.comlists 2,955 internet cafes in 118 countries.Unfortunately, cybercafe PCs won't have been pre-loaded with your email addresses and favourite   bookmarks. Either print out or "synch" (synchronise) the stuff from your desktop machine with a handheld or portable computer and take it with you.Another idea is to upload the data to a web-based calendaring/diary service such as Anydaywww.anyday.comorWebAddressBook. BothYahooandExciteoffer free email services that let you keep an addressbook online as well. Hotmail doesn't, yet.Travelling may also help to broaden your powers of observation. Imagine you're a cleaner with a Hoover: where would you expect to plug it in? Where would you expect to find a spare phone socket? Airports, hotels, restaurants, stations, and even trains may have power points that can get you out of low-battery situations.People often say they're going on holiday to recharge their batteries, and I've done that dozens of times. Literally.
Linux lassesGeek girls into Linux will want to check outLinuxChix, an organisation with (a few) international chapters that brings together women who just can't get enough of Linus Torvald's open source operating system. The Canadian founder of the group received over 2,500 emails last week after news siteZDNetran an article on LinuxChix, which was crossposted to news-for-nerds siteSlashdot. While   there are groups in Dublin and in Melbourne, Australia, none yet exists in the UK - and you can offer to start a chapter. Since men can go along to some meetings, too, it might just be the place for Linux guys to meet the Linux chick of their dreams.Bag ladiesIf you're a woman, you don't necessarily need to be interested in Linux to pay a visit towww.handbag.com, a new site aimed at British women and described as "the ultimate destination for women of all ages who want to be informed, empowered and entertained". Well, who wouldn't? They'll be offering free web access and email as well. Boots will stock free start-up CDs from October 6.Old lineOlder Britons now have a website dedicated to their interests as well.Onseniorsis targeting the over 50s crowd - 8% of the UK's online audience is over 55, according to Fletcher Research. Along with sections on travel, entertainment, finance and technology, the site has alliances withjobsearch.co.uk,autoexpress.co.ukand others.Get awayOn the other hand, perhaps you'd rather go somewhere warm and sunny. You could visitEscape Routes, the UK online travel site launched simultaneously with the magazine of the same name last week. The site's creators say they're aiming it at "travellers, not tourists" but it includes such frothy items as holiday horoscopes, a tanning guide, and a section called Haven't   Got a Clue to help you decide on a holiday destination.Web awardsTheWebby Awardshas created three new award categories and extended the application deadline for sites until October 8 for the ceremony to be held in March 2000. New opportunities for web designers to win kudos include Broadband, for sites that fully integrate band width-intensive, interactive content; Services for online services such as dating, help wanted and housing; and Kids, for sites for kids and teens under 18.How do you do?Looking for an explanation of how to do something? Why not tryeHow, which has an answer for just about everything, including many questions you'd never think to ask. The site also gives you the chance to link immediately to places that will allow you to buy a range of items connected - even remotely - to your question. It can all get rather surreal, espeically the list of "top 10 eHows" - apparently lots of people want to know "how to build and define your abdominals", "how to maintain a lawn in the fall", and "how to do an ollie on a skateboard".Here the wordWord freaks will love theOneLook Dictionary, a metadictionary site. OneLook searches dozens of online dictionaries, from foreign word books to specialist subject dictionaries, when you enter a word. Narrow or broaden your search by following the site guidelines.Grab the gabIt might sound like a site dreamed up by the writers of satirical e-zine, The Onion, butwww.eYada.comis the real thing, an "all-star, all-talk" website devoted to celebrity gab. The site's creators claim eYada.com will bring "a much-needed dose of celebrity to the Web" - not that any of us had noticed it was missing. The founder, a man with plenty of radio experience under his belt, says eYada will be a "cutting-edge site that provides the ultimate talk experience with the least possible effort for users". When they're this endearingly honest, how can you say no?Picture thisDesigners might be interested to know that RealNetworks has completed a deal to offer the full complement of images in the vast Getty Images catalogue. Thousands of images are offered free to RealSlideShow Plus customers from the RealNetworks site atwww.real.com. The complete libraries of EyeWire, Photo-Disc, and Hulton Getty - consisting of hundreds of thousands of royalty-free and rights-protected photographs, film footage and audio clips, illustrations, and clip art - can be purchased as well. In addition, some images and clips from Getty Images' collections can be bought through RealStore atwww.realstore.comSix of the best: Odd and arty e-zines15 Minutes - video interviewswww.zeldman.com/15/Blair - camp incarnatewww.blairmag.comSwitch -art and technologyhttp://switch.sjsu.eduAtlas - buddha meets cyberbillywww.atlasmagazine.comAdaweb - art onlinewww.adaweb.comWord - still kickingwww.word.com
Britain's biggest internet companies are facing their first collective crisis of confidence this week, after standard-bearerFreeservesaw its shares slump to below their 150p July offer price for the first time.Online auction houseQXL.comsubsequently announced it would come to the market at a price valuing itself at up to £242m, down on analysts' pre-announcement price tag of £350m. That price was itself half what had been suggested by some in July, when net mania was engulfing the city in the wake of Freeserve's oversubscribed flotation.The lower price is a reflection of increased caution towards European internet stocks, which - unlike their American counterparts - are failing 
to blaze a trail in the stockmarkets after their launch.Miles Saltiel, technology analyst at West LB Panmure, says that of 12 internet-related initial public offerings (IPOs) on European markets since June, all but two are trading below the price they managed on the first day of trading. There are a number of factors combining - not least, he says, because Britain's highest-profile net company, Freeserve, is "fundamentally flawed"."I believe that the Freeserve thing was somewhat singular. The truth is that the first big internet flotation to come to the London market was not of the highest quality. 
"Freeserve purports to be a portal, and portals are going off the boil. Two, it's a free service, and it's not clear where its revenue is coming from. Three, it's in competition withAmerica On Lineand AOL has been giving it a drubbing in the third quarter of this year. But it did attract an enormous amount of merchant banking support and an enormous amount of investor attention because it was the first, it was big, and it was liquid, and there was scarcity value and so on. It's possible that that has somewhat soured sentiment or muddied the waters.""With a bit of luck and a fair wind, investors will be able to use this not altogether satisfactory experience to discriminate between better and worse internet stories."
Saltiel suggests that QXL has priced its stock to ensure its IPO is a success, no matter what is happening in the rest of the internet market."We've seen that QXL has had to come up with a valuation that is less than they initially hoped for - or at least less than was originally signalled to the market. I've heard rumours that they could pull &#91;away from the sale&#93; but if QXL is pulled then you won't see another internet IPO in London this year. But I don't believe it's going to be pulled."The truth is it's like everything else: there are pretty girls and there are not so pretty girls. The first wave is breaking. But all that means is that this wave is breaking - a new wave will come along sometime."For its part, QXL has been careful this week to distance itself from Freeserve, with chief executive Jim Rose commenting to Reuters that the company was e-commerce based, and had nothing in common with Freeserve but the internet.
Freeserve's woes have done little to stem the continuing stream of announcements and launches in the European new media scene.Lastminute.com, the 11th hour seller of flights, holidays, gifts and other goods, has served notice of its intention to go public, although it has yet to name a date.Buy.co.uk, which offers consumer information on special offers, has also said that it will list next year.Meanwhile, the First-e bank, based in Dublin, has gathered a second round of private investment which has netted it £29m. And Boots the Chemist has joined with Hollinger Telegraph Media to announce a joint venture to be called handbag.com, which will be an online shopping venture aimed at women.&#149;  Mystery surrounds the much-hyped sportswear retailer boo.com, which was first due to launch in the spring but has had its kick off postponed several times. Men's Health magazine published an article this month praising the $125m venture's "fun and colourful" graphics, and its ability to deliver goods after 48 hours, despite the fact the site has not launched yet.
When did you start using computers?I had an early Sinclair ZX81 but didn't really do very much with it.How much of your work involves computers?Not all that much... although I do write my books lately on planes using my Psion Series 5. I also use an Omnibook for one or two other things. A lot of the computer work is done by my younger brother who runs my website and handles all the email and so on.Are computers a useful thinking tool?I think they may actually do the opposite. They may give people the impression that thinking is no more than search and that if you search right you'll get the answer and you don't have to do anything more.Will computers ever be able to think laterally?The difficulty will be how you let them perceive. If they do their own perceiving, I see absolutely no reason why they shouldn't think laterally. If we give them pre-packaged perceptions, that's a little bit harder because they can't dissect them and separate them out and readjust and restructure them. I certainly wouldn't be one of those people that say in no way will computers ever be creative.Do you think the internet should be regulated?Obviously there are extremes - I think some of the hate sites possibly don't do society much good.Are you into gadgets?I've tried the Nokia Communicator mobile phone. You're supposed to be able to send faxes to and from anywhere but the trouble is every time you log on a fax it says "This country doesn't provide fax service." I'm going to try again with the Ericsson.What do you see in the future for computers?I think the commerce side will get stronger although I'm really surprised that bulk buying hasn't developed. Consolidating consumers is something the internet can easily do and give the consumer so much more power to force down prices. I certainly think we might get computers to do some better thinking. It's something I'm currently working on.Have we become too reliant on computers?I think there is a danger with young people of being dependent in the sense that they don't acquire any identity or self-image of themselves as thinkers. They just go and look it up or they just chat with someone. In other words, relying on something rather than saying: "Okay, I've got the information, how do I create value from it?"What are you working on?The big project is a new language for thinking. Language is an encyclopedia of ignorance. Every word came in at a relative stage of ignorance, got fixed there and forces us to look at the world in a very old-fashioned way. A new language will allow us to form much more complex concepts.&#149;  Dr de Bono's latest book New Thinking For The New Millennium, is available now from Viking
Extra hassleI'm writing to agree with Tom Hawkins (Feedback, September 16). Office 97 is a time-consuming and irritating product. The main fault is that the redesign from earlier versions has assumed that the user will want all the extra "features", ie. the cartoon assistant, by default.This redesign may have been created to encourage the first time user. However, it is also possible that having found that only a few changes were required to enhance the earlier product, all these extra (unnecessary) changes were made in order that it could be claimed that the new Office 97 was a major step forward.It has certainly made me think about the desirablity of using other products. Unfortunately I have to use Office 97 at work.Charles Healechasheale@hotmail.comWar on racismDiane Taylor (Online, September 16) bemoans the shortage of antiracist web  sites in Britain, but neglects to mention many of those there are. For example, the Commission for Racial Equality's own website atwww.cre.gov.ukwhich is an easily navigable and useful resource for anyone wanting to know about British law on racal equality, equal opportunities, or generally about race relations in Britain. It receives many thousands of hits every month, and contains free, downloadable factsheets, and texts of many core publications, as well as news reports, pictures and information on ethnic diversity in Britain.&#149; Other sites she might have mentioned include:www.homebeats.co.ukwebsite of the Institute for Race Relationswww.blackbritain.co.ukwebsite promoting black achievements, and containing job advertisementshttp://les.man.ac.uk/rrarchivewebsite of the Manchester University Race Relations Archivewww.ecri.coe.frwebsite of the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, a Council of Europe initiativewww.jrf.org.ukwebsite of the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, which funds research and publishes reports into many aspects of social concernwww.refugeecouncil.org.ukwebsite of the Refugee Councilwww.warwick.ac.uk/fac/soc/CRER_RC/website of the Centre for Research in Ethnic Relations (CRER)www.wiesenthal.comdedicated to fighting race hate siteswww.btinternet.com/~gcdc2000website of the Global Cultural Diversity Congress 2000www.multicultural.netwebsite on ethnic minorities and the media set up by European Network On-Line and More Colour in the Media.Louis MackayCommission for  Racial EqualityCheap trickI found it quite amusing that Online (September 16) came with a leaflet from BT extolling the virtues of their "BT connect to business" service, where they would register you a domain for "free", "saving" you the &#163;95 admin fees plus "&#163;80 domain registration fees" for the first two years. Elsewhere (What's New - Cheap Names") it was revealed that this actually costs just &#163;5 from Nominet. Nice one BT. Truly we are not worthy.Steve Jeffery,West Bridgford, NottinghamRegarding the article Domain names, cheap or free on page 5 on the 2 September issue. I have been trying www.freenetnames.co.uk ever since and all I get is a "URL unknown" message.Likewisewww.ukreg.com- it is just a wait-and-see holding page. For 17 days already?Brian TomlinsonLondon&#149; There was a typographical error in the name of the first site which should have beenwww.freenetname.co.ukThe service is up and running.As forwww.ukreg.comAndrew Michael, director of Fasthosts, the parent company, says there have been problems over artwork on the site which he hopes to resolve by this weekend. If not, the launch of the site could be delayed for another two weeks.CensorshipPaul Canning (Feeback September 16) has some serious flaws in his argument when it comes to censorship, not least of which is his failure to distinguish between the critical faculties of adults and children.Adults make conscious censorial choices from the day a child is born about what he or she is exposed to in different media, because a child does not have the ability to make those choices.There is a great deal of racist, homophobic, and degrading pornographic material on the web. It is easy to argue that with software filters a child might miss out on more positive gay, lesbian or feminist images, but if you did a net search under "gay", the vast majority of what you would find would be gay pornography. An adult understands pornography in a wide context of cultural and individual values and recognises its purposes, its limitations, and its negative aspects. A child does not.As for the specious argument of the 12-year old   looking on the net for help because she is being sexually molested, I'm sure that most people who have surfed the net will know exactly what awaits the person who uses a combination of search terms involving, for example, "child", "sex" and "abuse".Roger WinterbottomSouthamptonNet pricesJames Snodgrass is wrong to assert that Argos winning its battle not to honour orders placed for &#163;3 televisions would cause a reduction in e-commerce in this country (Feedback, September 16).If mistakes are made in the production of a site which lead to prices which are clearly erroneous and the company is held to these then massive orders on the internet could very quickly bankrupt the company concerned.This risk is likely to discourage small companies from advertising on the net in the first place. I'm sure Argos must be reconsidering at the moment.Surely the common sense solution is to invalidate any contract where the sale price can be shown to be clearly erroneous.And what of retailers such as John Lewis who guarantee to match any other price? Would they be forced to sell TVs at &#163;3 too?Philip Porterphilip@benchees.demon.co.uk
