Soaring digital music sales for groups such as the Scissor Sisters failed to stem an overall decline for the industry in the first half of this year as piracy continued to hit CD sales.Illustrating how to survive in a multi-format industry, the Scissor Sisters topped Billboard magazine's singles, album and digital charts this week. But across the world's music industry, a fall in sales accelerated to a 4% decline on a year ago to $8.4bn (&pound;4.5bn) in trade values, according to international recording industry group IFPI. Physical music sales dropped by a tenth worldwide.IFPI, which works with police to stamp out illegal CD sales, says in its report that piracy and competition contributed to the first-half fall. Digital sales, however, soared by 106% in the first six months of this year to $945m.
Volvo S80 2.4 D5Price:&#163;30,800Top speed:143mphAcceleration:0-60 in 8 secondsConsumption:44.1mpgEco rating:6/10At the wheel:Gary LinekerTop gadget:Silver heating controlsIn a word:StraightHigh, wide and somewhat less than handsome, the S80 is the biggest saloon car in the Volvo range - the Swedish mothership. It comes, though, from a company less famous for luxury than it is for safety: for carefully armoured family wagons, bristling with air bags and rich in crumple zones. Middle-class parental paranoia? Volvo wrote the book. Volvo owners, remember, were pretty much the only people quietly chuckling when the booster seat law came in and sent everyone scuttling to Halfords. The pop-up booster has been integral in Volvo estates since pretty much the dawn of children.They're not integral to the S80, however - or at any rate, there weren't any in our test model, which, buffed to a high sheen, seemed designed only reluctantly to admit children at all, or anyone else likely to spoil it with crisps. If this executive limo has a dress code, it is suits and ties - polo shirts at a stretch - and the back isn't a kiddy hutch but a premium class lounge for business associates.The S80 is engineered to provide an amply competitive version of the desired executive driving experience, one in which all the hard work is swiftly delegated. The car carries you along in a sumptuously upholstered oblivion, its thick-pile carpets and supple leather furnishings providing a suitably neutral acoustic for its triumphant hi-fi. You will have been in very few sitting rooms that are as comfortable. Indeed, with the simple addition of a studio-style kitchenette and a shower room, you could probably rent the place out.But, boy, is it a plain car. By contrast, the BMW 5 Series is a wacky racer and the Mercedes E Class a vehicle for drug-addled crazies. Consider the start button. In almost any other car, the mere presence of a push-button ignition raises, however distantly, some residual memory of the race track. Only Volvo, surely, could manage to make the start button, and the little moment of theatre surrounding it, purely administrative. On the S80, it isn't red. It isn't even round. It's a tab, such as you might find on a microwave or music centre. Here you are, powering up a 2.4-litre engine, and you might as well be ejecting a CD.It's as if the S80's designers had a giant cardboard cut-out of Sven-G&ouml;ran Eriksson in the room for inspiration. The car achieves a truly formidable lack of presence. Dynamism begins and ends with the shark's fin aerial on the roof - and even this is the least scary shark's fin you've ever seen that wasn't on a rubber bath toy.You find yourself wondering, how does anything this big contrive to blend into the scenery so seamlessly? You could block your neighbour's drive with an S80 and the chances are they wouldn't notice until they drove into it. How do they do that? Magic, presumably. Swedish magic.
The press has given Steve Jobsa pretty easy rideduring the current options scandal, but at Bloomberg News, Graef Crystal has made a few points in hispersonal opinion column.Graef says that "In January 2000, Jobs was granted what was, and I believe still is, the largest option grant on a single day. It covered a staggering 40 million split-adjusted shares." The stock went down so Jobs was awarded even more shares: "He was given a second grant covering 15 million split-adjusted shares in October 2001." However, the stock went down again so these options were also "under water",Then in March 2003, Jobs ''voluntarily cancelled'' all 55 million option shares, according to the company's proxy statement. That cancellation is the basis for Apple's statement that he did not benefit from these options.But hold on. In its report to shareholders that year, Apple's board compensation committee noted the voluntary surrender of the options and then disclosed that ''in exchange for his cancelled options'' Jobs had been given 10 million split- adjusted shares. At the time the shares were worth about $75 million.The free shares were restricted from sale for three years. When the restrictions lapsed on March 19, 2006, they were worth some $640 million.It's hard to think of any Apple shareholder -- or anyone else for that matter -- who wouldn't welcome such a non-benefit.Comment: Graef is suggesting that Jobs should give back $85 million, which is roughly the difference between the $640 million he was given and the $557 million he would have got if the options had been set at a "fair" (average) price rather than the price on a date chosen to benefit Jobs. (Apple cleared Jobs in an internal enquiry, telling the SEC: "In a few instances, Apple CEO Steve Jobs was aware that favorable grant dates had been selected, but he did not receive or otherwise benefit from these grants and was unaware of the accounting implications.")Alternatively, Jobs could use his free $640 million to replace faulty MacBooks, except that wouldn't be anywhere near enough....Thanks to the wonderfulSecret Diary of Steve Jobsfor the link.
For the past week's issues on a single page, clickhere. Highlights include:The automated booth-babeWho would replace Steve Jobs?Home Office optimistic over £5.4bn ID schemeGoogle's blog hackedGoogle To Acquire YouTube for $1.65 Billion in StockMcAfee hit in stock options scandalNext, United States vs GoogleDump Firefox, switch to IceWeasel
In the light of Sony's admission that PS3's UK release will be delayed until next March, the Christmas games market has been left wide open for Nintendo's new oddity the Wii, and possibly even more excitingly, for Xbox 360 to show off its second generation of software, some of which is already looking rather exciting. Microsoft recently held a two-day showcase to hype the biggest of their upcoming games.Dead RisingXbox 360, Capcom, &pound;50Going back to its George A Romero-inspired roots, Capcom's new fest of undead slaughter mixes humorously macabre zombie culls with shopping, by placing you among a cornucopia of sporting goods outlets, toy shops and junk food vendors, from which you can pick up weapons, comedy items and tasty snacks for repairing stray bites.Playing a photographer, you must rescue survivors, cull as many brain-eaters as possible and photograph the resulting carnage, winning extra points for pictures judged to be violent, funny or sexy - tasteful this is not. A lurid selection of weapons from lawnmowers to the severed limbs of ex-zombies, the constant stream of would-be rescuees and alternate endings make this a fabulously rich and quirky game, though one that requires profound concentration to stay alive.Alan WakeOut this winterYou play insomniac psychological thriller writer Alan Wake, whose wife has disappeared and whose prose starts coming unnervingly to life. Giving you free reign to drive and run around the lavishly rendered American scenery, this is by turns atmospheric and absolutely terrifying.Gears Of WarOut November 17Heavily armed sci-fi musclemen pumping high velocity rounds into an edacious alien menace may not sound new or like much to get excited about, but actually playing the game changes all that. Loud, brutal and spectacularly beautiful, the signs are that both single and multiplayer modes will be experiences to savour.Mass EffectOut 2007From the people who brought you the excellent Star Wars role-playing game Knights Of The Old Republic and its sequel comes another slab of space opera, this time offering you freedom to patrol the Milky Way at your own pace, on a mission to stop an ancient AI created to wipe out all life. Among its innovations is a completely new approach to in-game conversations.Other itemson the agenda included the less than impressive episodic horror sequelAlone In The Dark; the wonderfulGuitar Hero II(complete with all-new axe); a trailer forHalo Wars, a real time strategy game based on Xbox's killer application; andTony Hawk's Project 8, which promises to reinvent its time-honoured control scheme for the next generation of armchair skaters. The final announcement was of an HD-DVD player add-on for Xbox 360. Launching in November, it will come with the HD version ofKing Kongand a multimedia remote, all for a bargain &pound;129 - possible empirical evidence of Bill Gates' current charitable mood.
MondayWorld of South ParkMy god, is Psygnosis back?Iranian game explores oil route sabotageTuesdayBurger King grills up gamesSound and visionWednesdayWoW fans not amused by South Park "inconsistencies"Call of Duty answeredThursday"Game Innovation" lab for academics and practitionersRare talkFridayTamagotchi loved by kids. Wii loved by adultsGamer lurve
"Owners of Apple Computer's new 13-inch MacBook notebooks, whose systems are plagued by intermittentshutdown issues, have become fed up with extended repair times and inadequate resolutions to the problem, and are now organizing a class action lawsuit against the Mac maker," reportsApple Insider."The issue, which users have dubbed 'RSS,' or Random Shutdown Syndrome, has been well documented on Apple's discussion boards and other forums around the web. During ordinary use, affected MacBooks will randomly shut down, effectively rendering the systems unreliable."Comment: A MacBook can't be that old, so I'd have thought the simplest approach was to return it for a refund -- or, if bought with a credit card, reclaim the money that way -- and buy from a more reliable supplier. The catch, of course, is that since Apple is a proprietary system, there are no alternatives if you want OS X....The Apple Insider story links to theAppleDefectssite, which contains some very sad stories. I was moved in particular by the plight of Andrew F. Sorba, who reckons he has had a300%+ Product Failure Rate. He writes:Powerbook Titanium --&gt; Repaired 4 times, on 5th Apple Replaced PowerMac G5 --&gt;Failed 3 times (purchased 12/2005) 30" Cinema Display --&gt;Failed 2 times, Apple Replaced, New unit failed immidiately, Apple Replaced again. (so I'm on my 3rd Display in 1 year) Powerbook G4 --&gt;Failed 2 times in 1 yearSo by my count, I have had 4 products that have failed a total of 13 times...which calculates to a 300% failure rate...Not one to mince words, he wrote to Steve Jobs to say "I feel disappointed".
IceWeasel is the superb new browser from the Free Software Foundation'sGNUzilla project. This means it's really really free and can be shipped with the Debian version of the GNU operating system, popularly known as "Linux". And Debian is the version used to create Ubuntu.Of course, IceWeasel is Firefox under a different name, with some privacy enhancements. But asInternet Newsnoted:The IceWeasel browser is particularly significant now that Mozilla is cracking down on Linux distributions such as Debian.The Debian GNU/Linux distribution adheres to a strict definition of what is Free Software and considers Mozilla's Firefox logo trademark to be non-free and as such does not include the logo with its distribution. Mozilla has taken issue with Debian's non-compliance with Mozilla's usage policies and has also stipulated that Debian developers submit patches made to Debian's Firefox packages to Mozilla first for approval.This can be slightly tricky if the version of Firefox in Debian Stable is an older version that the Mozilla guys want to kill by forced upgrade. SeeThe return of Iceweaselfor the background.Otherwise, engtech has a good round-up atIceWeasel - Why proprietary software will always win outComment: Ultimately this goes back to the split between free software (GNU and Richard Stallman) and open source. They look the same, but free software is an ethical and moral issue. The open source group broke away specifically in order to dump the ethical and moral aspects and turn it into a development methodology. And thus into a series of software businesses, of which Mozilla is but one.However, if it's OK to do Ubuntu, as a commercialised repackaging of Debian, then it must be OK to do IceWeasel, as a de-commercialised repackaging of Firefox. It can't be a one-way street.For the tension between Debian and Ubuntu, see Ian Murdock (the Ian in Deb-Ian) onCan't we all just get along?
Nick Carr points out that "every era of computing has its defining antitrust case," mentioning the ones versus IBM and Microsoft.So, he says:With Google this week taking over YouTube, it seems like an opportune time to look forward to the prospect -- entirely speculative, of course -- of what could be the defining antitrust case of the Internet era:United States vs. Google.He doesn't actually tackle the problem of Google's monopoly, but he is right on target in pointing out the difference between what Google says and what Google actually does:Google's corporate pronouncements are carefully, and, by all accounts, sincerely, aimed at countering fears that it is building a competition- and innovation-squelching empire. But its actions often belie its rhetoric. Its founders said they had no interest in launching an internet portal, but then they launched an internet portal. They said they wanted customers to leap off Google's property as quickly as possible, but then they began cranking out more and more applications and sites aimed at keeping customers on Google's property as long as possible. The company's heart may be in the right place, but its economic interests lie elsewhere. And public companies aren't known for being led by their hearts.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
A lovestruck gamer hasproposedto his ladyfriend via a webforum and the gamer world has gone mental, tearing the poor guy (and his potential betrothed) to shreds. Far from getting swept up in the romantic notion, subsequent posters have jibed, mocked and ridiculed the couple for "getting it on" so publicly, via the interweb. The two met while playing the free online game Flyff (Fly for Fun).By now, my thoughts onwhyweshouldn'tbesurprisedaboutthisare well-documented. Virtual worlds are, after all, a form of social software. In other words, they help facilitate sociability. And when two people meet - regardless of the medium - there's a chance they may fall in love.For goodness sake naysayers - how is this any different from sports presenters proposing after the Superbowl or men dressed up as astronauts proposing to their alien-clad girlfriends atFlaming Lips concerts?viaDigg
I'm completely out of touch with playground culture - which is a good thing as I'm a thirty-something adult. So I was a little surprised when Iread in the Guardian yesterdaythat Tamagotchi has been the best-selling toy of the year - for the second year running. Retailers also expect it to be the biggest selling toy of Christmas. Now in its third iteration, the toy allows users to link separate Tamagotchis together to play games.This, apparently, is going to be more attractive to children than wearing a cyberman mask. More attractive even than the cool Star Wars Transformers I saw in my local Sainsbury's Superstore at the weekend. I tried to get my ten-month-old son to show interest in a transforming version of Boba Fett's Slave 1 ship so I could buy it under pretense, but he wasn't having any of it. I put it back on the shelf sullenly.Anyway, I thought Tamagotchi was long gone, a fad from the mid-nineties superceded by more advanced fare like Nintendogs. But the continuing success of Bandai's virtual pet makes sense. They're much cheaper than a DS of course - GBP12.99 to be exact. More importantly, everyone wants something to care for - and kids like to care for things that a smaller and even more defenseless than they. In a crowded urban society where real pets are an inconvenience, Tamagotchis are an economical, clean way of assuaging a child's nurturing instincts. And this way, you won't end up clearing a rodent cage out for two years after your son or daughter has tired of Buffy the hamster.The Guardian report also mentioned recent predictions from electrical retailers Comet and PC World about the top ten gadgets for Xmas 2006. Wiitopped both charts. Xbox 360 was in neither. It seems adults like small cute things to fawn over as well.
It's 7pm at Liverpool Street station. You've had a terrible day in the office. The Chelmsford train is late. Again. Your chicken feuillete from Delice de France has burnt your mouth. What next?On Wednesday night the "what next" was hundreds of clubbers descending on the station, turning on their iPods and dancing like crazy people in the latest internet craze: mobile clubbing.The rules are simple: Arrive at location at given time. Start dancing to the music of your choice on your personal stereo. Please utilise the whole space, spread out. The mantra comes from the no-frills websitemobile-clubbing.com, where after-work dancers can sign up to be told of the next surprise venue.One man who, you suspect, would hate it is David Hockney. In London for a a retrospective at the National Portrait Gallery, he moaned this week that we were no longer in a visual age. "In London, everyone has something sticking in their ears, so we're in an aural age."Should you be so inclined, you can also use the internet to take part in urban street water pistol games, human Pacman games, and, from the same people behind this week's dancing, Pillow Fight Club.
McAfee has followed Symantec in publicly attacking Microsoft's plans to increase the security of its forthcoming Windows Vista operating system. George Samenuk, McAfee's former chairman and chief executive, even claimed in an advertisement published in the Financial Times that Microsoft was "increasing [the] security risk with Vista".Samenuk's "open letter" accused Microsoft of hamstringing competitors, and proclaimed: "We won't remain silent as Microsoft imposes unnecessary security risks. Microsoft's new approach is misguided in principle, bad for innovation and competition."McAfee's main complaint is about the PatchGuard system that protects the code in the operating system kernel. However, Samenuk's letter neglected to point out that PatchGuard appears only in 64-bit versions of Windows, and that it was introduced two years ago. It has no effect on McAfee's 32-bit Windows programs.Microsoft rarely comments on other company's claims, but in this case, Ben Fathi, the corporate vice-president of Microsoft's security technology unit, was frustrated enough to respond. Looking over the letter and McAfee's earlier press information, which I mailed him, he said: "They're misrepresenting some of the facts," and "They're taking a very small molehill and making a mountain out of it. They think that yelling and screaming is going to make their points true, and that's not the case."Fathi suggested that Samenuk's letter was confused about PatchGuard being cracked, but he agreed it could be. "No, we're not stupid, but just because there might be a way to circumvent it doesn't mean we shouldn't even try to protect the kernel. This is an arms race."The press statement that McAfee could not disable and replace Microsoft's Defender software was "absolutely false," added Fathi. "They already knew by then that they had that information." Microsoft had not planned to allow this, but following pressure from other vendors, developed the interface and provided the information on Friday September 22.Fathi also claimed Microsoft wasn't hamstringing security vendors - who were given access to computer labs, daily builds of Vista and staff to help them in Redmond. "[McAfee's] developers are working with us," said Fathi. "The PR engine they've spun up is not necessarily in synchronisation with reality."I hate to say this," Fathi concludes, "but we're seeing an example of the doctor wanting to keep the patient sick. To us it seems clear: they stand to lose a chunk of their market if Windows becomes more secure."Graham Cluley of Sophos, a leading UK-based security vendor, confirmed by email that Sophos "is experiencing no problems with PatchGuard for our anti-virus software". He added: "Sophos believes that PatchGuard is a positive step by Microsoft to improve security on Vista, and is not in itself anti-competitive provided that Microsoft delivers on its commitment to provide the same level of kernel support and integration to third-party security vendors as it does to its own security product team."Our view is that security vendors need to remember that the requirements of the user are paramount. They are demanding better security from their computers when they connect to the internet. Security vendors and Microsoft have to retain good relations to deliver innovative security solutions to users. Taking out full-page adverts doesn't sound like the behaviour of a company enjoying good relations with MS, but more like a divorcing Hollywood couple airing their dirty laundry in the tabloids."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
TheDestructoidblog reports on the trial involving the latest Take Two video game, Bully. Turns out the judge wants to see it, perhaps being not clued up enough about the problem of "prior restraint":"Never in the history of gaming has a judge ever asked to review a game before its release -- and that is going to happen here tomorrow". These are words spoken but a few feet from me asJack Thompsonwalked away from a satisfying session against Take-Two and Walmart, which are scheduled to release the game on Tuesday and begin shipping it on Monday night.It's a silly circus but it could lead to some good tabloid stuff that is likely to promote massive game sales. However, one incident could turn out to have more serous implications:The other notable highlight of the session did come from Mr Thompson, who produced a gigantic home made industrial strength wooden slingshot that looked capable of exploding somebody's head in half with the right projectile. It was made of wood and rubber, so he was able to sneak it past metal detectors unnoticed which even took the judge by surprise. It was a moment right out of court TV, but an effective one. If there was any chuckles that a slingshot could be a lethal weapon, they were silenced.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Recently I have been getting a large and increasing number of emails that appear to have been sent from my email address but are being returned to me as not having been delivered. They are addressed to my email domain (ie, what comes after the @ sign) but the name is usually a random assortment of letters. Is there a possibility that my machine has been hijacked in some way and is sending out masses of spam and these have been returned as genuinely undeliverable? I run Windows XP SP2 and do regular updates and scans. Peter HampsonIt is certainly possible that your machine has been hijacked and is sending out spam, which is leading to bounced emails. To double check, run another scan during boot-up or in Safe Mode with a different anti-virus product, such as AVG or Avast Home Edition. Both of these are free. You should also confirm that the IP address given in the mail headers is somebody else's, not yours. For help with this, seehttp://www.mailsbroadcast.com/email.bolts.nuts/deciphering.fake.email.htmHowever, if your PC is fully patched and you have been running a good anti-virus product, this is fairly unlikely. It's even more unlikely that a lot of readers have all had their PCs hijacked at the same time, and your query is by far the most common at the moment. (I'd print a list but it would be too long.) A more plausible explanation is that more spammers have taken to using wildcards to forge email addresses, or they might even be generating spam that pretends to be undelivered mail.Unfortunately, the design of the internet's email system makes it almost impossible to do anything about the problem. And attempts to fix email -- such as SPF (Sender Policy Framework) and DomainKeys -- don't seem to be having any visible effect. You could certainly try to register your email address for SPF (www.openspf.org/wizard.html), which will enable mail servers to reject forged emails (where the mail comes from a server that you have not registered to send your email). It's free and does no harm, but the process is very far from user-friendly.To cope with a flood of bounces, you could try adding a rule to your mail software so that all mail is deleted unless it is addressed correctly -- but you'll still have to download it first. An alternative is to use Mailwasher (www.mailwasher.net) to delete it on the server before you use your mail software to collect mail. You could also try switching to an email service that provides better spam-blocking, such as Gmail, where you can still use your preferred POP3 mail program, such as Thunderbird, Eudora, Outlook or Outlook Express. But most people just seem to grit their teeth and hope the problem goes away.Finally, you could try reporting the companies that return spam you didn't send to Spamcop and other blacklists, to get them blacklisted. It's a safe assumption that the From: address on any spam email is not the address that sent it, so blindly misdirecting spam to forged addresses constitutes net abuse. Seehttp://www.spamcop.net/fom-serve/cache/329.htmlfor more information.Backchat: Alan Pagett, who uses Mailwasher, points out that you can also delete spam on the server viawww.mail2web.com.David Attwood says he had the same problem with spam addressed to random email addresses. "PlusNet fixed it quickly: they now 'blackhole' everything that comes into my mailbox except messages to the wanted address."
Are any TV broadcasters providing coverage to their subscribers over the internet? For example, instead of using Slingbox or Sony's Locationfree or Orb or TiVo To Go, you could just watch things on their website. Paul WoodMore than 400 TV stations from Albania to Zimbabwe provide TV programmes over the net, including the BBC and America's PBS. However, many just provide news clips and a few archived programs rather than streaming their whole output. Almost all these public services are free. Given the usual small windows, stuttering displays and unreliable connections, it would be hard to charge for them.SeeLifehackerfor links to some good TV portals such as Channel Chooser (www.channelchooser.com) and Choose And Watch (www.chooseandwatch.com).Bear in mind that watching TV online consumes a lot of bandwidth, so you will probably need an unlimited account.
Firefox has advantages over Internet Explorer, but it does not seem to allow all sites to work properly. I therefore retain IE as my default browser -- or am I missing something? Patrick LeeYes, you are missing a Firefox extension,IE View 1.3.1 by Paul Roub. This lets you set Firefox as the default but still "load pages in IE with a single right-click, or mark certain sites to always load in IE".
A &pound;5m campaign to persuade citizens to contact their local council via a central government web portal has had little effect, according to an independent study.The Connect to Your Council campaign of radio and press advertisements, sponsored by the Department for Communities and Local Government, was designed to spread awareness of "e-government" services such as reporting fly-tipping online. It advises people to channel their requests throughwww.direct.gov.uk, a website set up by the Cabinet Office and now run by the Central Office of Information to handle all citizens' transactions with government.Website usage statistics published this week by SocITM Insight, a consultancy set up by the association of local government IT managers, suggest that the campaign raised awareness of local government websites but that the increase in demand for services was too small to measure.One service specifically promoted by the campaign, schools information online, "might have seen an increase of up to 1.25% as a result of the campaign," SocITM Insight concluded.The figures, collected from 59 council websites, show that Directgov lags far behind commercial search engines as a first port of call to government.While referrals from Directgov rose threefold after the campaign, fewer than 10% of visitors found their local authority through the site. Most (53%) relied on a commercial search engine, while 16% guessed the website address.Individual authorities confirmed this phenomenon. The Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea in London says that the number of referrals fromwww.direct.gov.ukhas increased sevenfold this year - but the central portal was the source of only 700 of the 97,000 unique visitors its website handled in August.The government says it is encouraged by the growth in numbers of people who know services are available electronically. Angela Smith, minister for local e-government said: "The whole aim of the campaign was to encourage public awareness. It appears to have been successful."Under the Cabinet Office's "transformational government" strategy, Directgov is to become the main channel for communication with officialdom, replacing many of the 3,000 or so existing government websites. Since early this year, users have been able to "deep link" from Directgov to specific services run by their councils. The fact that most citizens identify with Google or their council rather than the Cabinet Office apparently comes as a surprise to Whitehall.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
This week's print editon is now onlinehere.Joined-up experiencesIn a marketplace that offers a bewildering array of hardware, software and services, the company that prioritises ease of use stands a chance of winning, says Jack Schofield.Free Our Data: The fight has only just begunSix months into our campaign, we have raised awareness and identified the biggest barrier: lack of central government policy.Virus busters wash their dirty linen in publicMcAfee has followed Symantec in publicly attacking Microsoft's plans to increase the security of its forthcoming Windows Vista operating system.Gadgets -- Creative Zen V PlusMany companies have tried but so far no one has managed to deliver a small, Flash-based music player than can hold its own against the Apple iPod Nano. Until now, for in several departments the Creative Zen V Plus has its Apple rival licked.Gadgets -- Palm Treo 750vFor a big fan of Palm's elegant operating system, it feels odd to handle a device sporting the Palm logo that runs the Windows Mobile operating system.Newly asked questionsHow will Microsoft stop you stealing Windows Vista?Using SPP, Microsoft's new Software Protection Platform, which is even better - or, if you like, worse - than WGA (Windows Genuine Advantage).Has World of Warcraft finally jumped the shark?In the South Park episode Make Love Not Warcraft, Cartman and friends become addicted to WoW until their game is blighted by a mysterious character who is so powerful that he can kill anybody else in the game.NewsbytesBluEye flyer | Xmod sound upgrader | Mine's smaller than yours | Nokia offers Wibree | Read this online | Looking into it | That's the styleA Rare island of co-operative adventuresWith Viva Piñata, UK-based developer Rare has the potential of creating a new Pokémon. Technology talks to the game's lead designer, Gregg Mayles.I have seen Wi-Fi's future, and it's freeVictor Keegan: A number of places in the UK have claimed to be rolling out free wireless connections for the community to encourage internet use, but only Norfolk has got it up and running.Gamesblog: weapon of mass destructionKeith Stuart: The launch of Nintendo's Wii console could be the most destructive videogame event for more than 20 years. More destructive than the launch of PlayStation, which in effect killed Sega as a console producer and relegated Nintendo to a humiliating court jester role.TechnobileChris Partridge: Snail mail could teach those geeks and bureaucrats a lot about flexibility and elegance.We need the energy to break out of our fossilised waysCharles Arthur: The other day I found myself on the M25. In, of course, a traffic jam. There was a traffic queue on the other side of the motorway too, pointing in the other direction and not really going anywhere either. I had a sudden insight at that moment.£5m e-government awareness campaign flopsA £5m campaign to persuade citizens to contact their local council via a central government web portal has had little effect, according to an independent study.'Get me a blood screen, stat'Analysis is much harder than TV dramas suggest. But faster, cheaper tests are becoming a reality.Ask JackBadly returned spams | Net TV | Firefox compatible | BackchatLetters and blogs
We receive far more letters than we can print on paper, so here's what we chose from. This week's topics include non-lethal weapons, ebooks, Apple's Wi-Fi, Slingbox, and science teaching. JSAnother frightening issue with this is that those at the head of a large crowd of demonstrators might be unable to step back out of range of the beam.Simon HorsboroughThere are strong indications that laser weapons are being used in Iraq already. There are plenty of articles and documentaries on the subject which can simply be found by researching on the internet. It appears the article could be seen as a little slow in picking up what is already happening.Philip Moran, LondonThank you for the excellent article on Raytheon's microwave "less than lethal" weapons of intense pain. This was the best article I have read to date and I commend you for it. Many American citizens are concerned about the research and development by the US military in the area of directed energy weapons. From what is known, directed energy weapons, also referred to as "non-lethal" weapons, is the centerpiece of war technology for the 21st century. Generally, the terminology of "non-lethal" is misleading in that these weaponized technologies are only "less than lethal" when used at a lower than lethal setting. At a longer or more intense setting, it is instantaneously lethal, even incinerating a living being in the blink of an eye. Military personnel often demonstrate the Raytheon technology by incinerating sea gulls at a great distance. I've personally heard the same story of this from many different people who were strangers to each other.Last, I would like to bring to your attention many claims that are being made concerning the use of this technology. It is my understanding that these weapons are prohibited from being used in war per International treaties that the US has signed. When those agreements were entered into, the authority for directed energy weapons were transferred in the US from the Department of Defense to the Department of Justice. The DOJ addresses only domestic civilian matters. Since these technologies have been developed for military application, the US government, in my opinion, needs to characterize it for civilian applications. The fact is that situations in the US where massive civilian crowd control is needed is very rare in our recent history. It is unlikely, given the current climate in the US, that it will be needed any time soon. What many people are perceiving is that the US merely wants to test the Raytheon microwave pain-inducing technology on civilians in preparation for justifying opting out of the International ban on the use of these weapons in war. That would be unfortunate, because there is more to these pain-inducing weapons than has been revealed. The minimalist application sounds reasonable and safe. However, these directed energy weapons will likely never be used at those levels. These are weapons that have the capability to dominate every single living organism within its reach and to cause death in the most painful and inhumane of methods. Again, thank you for your top notch report.R Beth Ross, San Diego, California&gt;&gt; Add this to the widescale CCTV coverage we have in this country, and now a linked speaker system to bark out orders, and you have the possibility of the UK evolving into Airstrip One sometime soon. Of course, CCTV is far from unpopular given the twin threats of terrorism and street crime, leaving the majority of us as though crushed in a huge vice. Effectively they're all on the same side: intimidation. A battle for the minds and not the hearts.http://lowlyseer.blogspot.com/2006/10/complete-control.html&gt;&gt;They've created a weapon that can fry protesters, or at least give protesters the impression that they are being fried. (See crudely added link below for more details.) I say we should fight fire with fire. The system they have created costs $10 million. A snip for your average despot, but beyond the means of, well, us. On the other hand, there are lots of us and I reckon most of us own microwaves. All we need to do is re-wire them so that they work with the door open, buy lots of lenses that will spread the rays, borrow some car batteries and surround the White House.http://hecklescakes.blogspot.com/2006/10/microwave-weapons.htmlSir Humphrey (Free Our Data)I use the following example when teaching researchers, a bit dated now but still valid. When president Clinton addressed the joint Houses of Parliament his words were in the public domain from the moment he uttered them. Anyone can use them. Mr Blair's reply at the same event is different: his words are controlled by Crown Copyright and are subject to users obtaining permission from HMSO to reproduce them. The only exception is under 'fair use' by news organisations. In the land of the free, the USA, government publications, by any means including films, are in the public domain from the date of publication, free for all to use. The thinking behind this is that the Government is financed by taxes, so the American people have already paid for this material and collectively own it and therefore should have free access. In the land of the Mother of Parliaments, Britain, all Government publications are Crown Copyright and remain so for 125 years or in the case of the King James Bible in perpetuity. The thinking behind this completely opposite approach is that the Government is Her Majesty's Government and Her Majesty owns all Government publications, not the people, who are merely subjects who taxed in the name of the her Majesty. Greg Dyke did make the BBC Archives freely available the academic institutions on the grounds that the licence fee had paid for the material. He ran into some trouble with his board of governors for doing this but then he was soon to run into greater trouble with his governors and Her Majesty's Government.Barry Coward, Beulah Audiovisual, LondoneBooksI can only see gadget addicts buying these devices. The cost of the device is far too much in comparison to the cost of a paperback. With other technologies falling in price month on month, i.e. laptops now retailing below £400 with wireless and lots of processing power and RAM, the cost of these devices needs to be significantly lower as the functionality of such a device is so limited when compared to a laptop. OK, a laptop battery does not last as long and does not boot up immediately but the additional functionality outweighs the inconveniences. Also, I would not really be too bothered losing £8 worth of paperback, I would be slightly more miffed if I lost £200-£500 worth of ebook reader.Nathan Seery, Brackley, NorthantsThe statement, ""Consumers will be looking for a more flexible DRM so they can move content around ..." is woefully out of touch with reality. What consumers are looking for is NO DRM. The DRM measures end up being extraordinarily draconian when implemented and costly to develop. And yet, few (if any) consumers want any kind of restriction on what they can do with a published product they have purchased. The fact is, most people are honest and will abide by copyright. DRM punishes the honest and has little effect on those who would abuse the copyright. Furthermore, the pursuit of DRM has yielded the plethora of formats which the publishers are considering, using, or developing. However, most users simply want access to .doc (Word documents), .pdf (Adobe), .txt , html, and .xml. Ironically, the publishers also seem to want to recover the cost of developing their peculiar proprietary formats by pricing their ebooks accordingly. "Most eBooks are the same price as the printed version or lower, in some cases 50% cheaper." is perhaps the most telling statement in the article. Young consumers especially, are aware of what it takes to produce electronic media. A 50% reduction on the book price is only viewed as an obscene profit grab. A +95% reduction might be better greeted. Like the music industry, the publishing industry will have to come to grips with the fact that they must bring their prices into line with what the consumer thinks is fair. To do that they will have to stop spending money avoiding the obvious technological solutions ... and start treating consumers as honest people.Mike Bourassa, Kingston, Ontario, CanadaYou forgot the one real reason that ebooks are doomed When I buy a book. its mine. its property, I OWN that book to do with as I please. When I buy an ebook for the same freaking price as the paper book I have absolutely nothing. NO rights NO ownership and terms that can change AFTER I have paid my NON refundable price and of which I will NOT be refunded if I do not like or decline the new "terms". It's the same reason that online music sales will eventually fail. Once people realize they are buying .... nothing. School textbooks. Do you have any idea how much text books cost? It's bad enough that they rape you trading in your books (better to resell yourself), it's bad enough that they change books more and more frequently to prevent you being able to resell your old books. With ebooks you have no right to resell that ebook so they can both stop changing the books saving them money and prevent us from reselling out old books dramatically increasing the cost of getting an education. Chew on that for a bit. eBooks as corporations see them are very very bad for the people of this country. eBooks that are totally unencumbered with DRM and with full ownership, as owning a real book, would be very good for the people of this country.Chris Taylor, Edgely, Pennsylvania&gt;&gt; Wow. Seriously, write this date down. This is the start of deeply, deeply groovy. This is the future, people!http://highland-frog.livejournal.com/13235.htmlKeeping abreastAleks Krotoski asked for an example of a female icon beyond Lara Croft. How about Jade from "Beyond Good &amp; Evil"? She was awesome! Her sidekick pig wasn't bad either, but that's going off at a tangent.Bulent Yusuf, London"How am I expected to adopt such a character, or watch as representations of my gender are minimised? Please don't mention Lara Croft. Give me another example - one who isn't a male in hypersexualised female clothing -- and then I'll talk to you." Jade from "Beyond Good and Evil". Thanks to Michael Ansel from sunny France for that one. Next question please! It's been done. It's /always/ been done - there's always a game out there that counters pretty much any argument. It's just that they don't sell, and thus people don't know about them. If Ubi had got the marketing right and if people had followed up on the rave reviews and actually /bought/ the game, we'd be on number three or so by now, and we'd have our prominent female role model that everyone talks about. But... it was released at the wrong time without enough marketing, and despite reviewers everywhere begging people to buy a copy, it pretty much flopped. The experiment failed, and the take-home message to a lot of interested parties was probably "female protagonists with B-cup breasts and realistically feminine personalities cause games to sell poorly". The state of today's market in relation to the opening quote is in this regard entirely unsurprising.)Matt Woodward, DevonSlingboxOh dear. I suspect that the Slingbox people may be a little annoyed with Technology Guardian and Matt Dunn if they see this. I think that he has unwittingly provided a critique of his broadband connection and mistakenly blamed it on his Slingbox! Unfortunately many UK broadband providers are still shamefully trying to get away with providing upstream bandwidth of a pathetic 256kbps ... even on downstream connections of 8Mbps. I think Matt will find it is his 256K bandwidth which makes fast action unwatchable. If he upgrades to a decent 1M or 2M upstream bandwidth, I don't think he'd have any problems at all. I do think that Technology could do worse than start one of its little campaigns about this though: it is a bit of a scandal that BB providers are hiding 256K upstream connections behind 2M, 4M and 8M bandwidth claims. They really should provide at least 512K, 1M and 2M Upstream respectively for ADSL on those claimed bandwidths. Also, more and more broadband uses are requiring higher upstream speeds -- but the corporations are far happier when the infrastructure favours us buying their content than broadcasting our own. Don't let them get away with it.John Walters, Bexhill-on-SeaMac Wi-FiActually, Occam's razor actually says there was a particular flaw in most Wi-Fi gear but not with the Apple hardware and drivers and the demo had to use third party gear on a Mac to demo the flaw. They used a Macby their own admission("We're not picking specifically on Macs here, but if you watch enough of those Get a Mac commercials...." etc) because they were ticked at the Macs claims of relative invulnerability. The various writers' dark implications of Apple putting pressure on them is hilarious. If they promised mot to disclose flaws, and then turned right around and publicly made statements about being leaned on, why bother to make promises? On the other hand, if you were called to task on your demo, it's easier to imply that you were being pressured without having to actually prove your claims.Philip Day, Langley, CanadaI haven't seen as perfect (and as brief) an analysis of the folderol surrounding the Wi-Fi exploit/weakness as yours. Great stuff. Some who have examined high-res versions of the Maynor/Ellch Black Hat video would disagree with this statement: "plugging a third-party Wi-Fi card into an Apple MacBook, and apparently hacking into it wirelessly from a Windows machine." They can see the interface MAC addresses in the high-res version, and determined that it appears that the built-in AirPort adapter was in use. Hard to follow, and we may never know. What's interesting about this statement you made -- "But Apple then launched its own internal investigation of its Wi-Fi drivers -- and found exploitable flaws" -- is that this is clearly the single worst security flaw in Mac OS X's history. The fact that Apple repaired it before anything occurred in the wild, no matter whether it was because it was reported or no, is good news. The particular kind of problem they fixed is hard to pin down as to whether it could be exploited. I've been comparing this to electrical faults. If Maynor and Ellch did what you suggest (and I believe), it's like telling Apple, "You have a short in your house's wiring somewhere, but we're not telling you where." Apple says, "Fine, we're going to open up all the walls, check all the wires, and fix what we find." And, like in most homes, they found some disturbing cases that needed to be rewired. But because of how they documented this, we don't whether you'd have to bring in the equivalent of a jet engine and plug it into wall voltage in order to burn down the house, or whether a toaster oven would do the trick -- if it were the right toaster oven.Glenn Fleishman, SeattleMaynor found a weakness in Wi-Fi drivers, and decided to demonstrate it on a Mac. As a result, no one is reporting that this flaw exists in Windows and Linux, too. The Apple story is not news, as Apple has released a patch and a press release. News would be: What is the status of the Windows and Linux patches. Has Intel patched Centrino (Centrino was specifically mentioned by Maynor)? When will the Guardian print real news and answer those questions?Geniver MontalvoCharles Arthur writes: "Occam's razor suggests the following: Maynor and Ellch found a generic flaw in the way that Wi-Fi drivers work. But they didn't demonstrate it on Apple's systems in a way that Apple accepted." Might I suggest that Occam's razor suggests nothing of the sort, but quite the opposite: it suggests Maynor and Ellch found nothing of interest? That might seem unwarranted, but consider. The original reports (by instance:www.eweek.com/article2/0,1895,1998452,00.asp) says: "Ellch, a well-known security expert who uses the hacker moniker Johnny Cache, made it clear that the issue is not specific to Apple's Mac computers. "This isn't an Apple problem or a Microsoft problem. This is something that's problematic across the industry," he said." Even Brian Krebs said in his article: "Again, the whole point of this story was not to pick on Macs, but to point to a security issue that affects multiple operating systems and one that is long overdue for some serious code review by the companies that OEMs rely upon to produce this software." Furthermore, Krebs specifically states that "Maynor said he and Ellch have been in contact with Apple, Microsoft andother companies[my emphasis] responsible for vetting the device drivers that power the embedded or third-party wireless card devices meant for those systems, and that both companies are working with wireless card vendors and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) to remedy the problems" In addition, both Krebs and others (eg Ou, etc) suggests they know how the "exploit" can be carried out. "I spent more than an hour with Dave Maynor watching this exploit in action and peppering him with questions about it" (Krebs).Ou adds: "The transcript clearly reveals that Maynor had demonstrated the same exploit on a Mac without any third party wireless hardware!"Elsewhere, he says: "Speaking of Apple driver vulnerabilities, I had accurately pinpointed the driver issue last month when I reported on Atheros' non-role in this whole affai.r" So why cannot the exploit be shown or demonstrated? Where are the declarations by either the Wi-Fi card manufacturers or "multiple OS" providers or even security companies acknowledging either the hackers or SecureWorks for the information we are assured they provided? Some people assure us that cannot be done because "Apple and SecureWorks" have managed to compel Maynor not to speak. But any such compelling cannot be enforced upon Krebs, Ou or Ellch (or Microsoft or any of the Linux providers, never mind the many manufacturers of Wi-Fi cards) And those gentlemen reputation is as much in the line as that of Maynor. They assured us they knew an exploit can be carried out against "multiple operating systems". It is high time they prove it. Meanwhile, and according to the rules of Occam, we are entitled to think there isn't such an exploit. After all, everything is possible, even a chocolate ball autographed by all the best football players in history and floating half way between Mars and Jupiter. It is up to the ones who say that such is the case to provide the evidence.Jaime Cortez, ManchesterPraiseYour articles are brilliant for How Science Works -- an important new aspect of Science teaching for the new GCSE. I have being teaching the electromagnetic spectrum. Your article on Raytheon's security system was brilliant. I have given it to the class to read and asked them to come with views next lesson as to whether they reckon, given this information, they reckon it is safe. I also used the article, How can I find out where the nearest mobile phone base station is? They were all telling me their postcodes! The new GCSE aims to improve the general scientific literacy of the population so they can make informed decisions on articles they read in the paper. We are encouraged to have discussion on topics that are in the press. I will be using the GPS article when I do satellites, and get them to consider privacy. I will use "step in the right direction" when I do energy. You are providing a valuable resource. These articles really interest them and they see How Science Works, to use the in jargon!C Dunn, St AndrewsRead the TechGuardian over breakfast this morning (still prefer the paper). Targeting the pain business -- very chilling. Technobile -- very funny, more of that please. What happened after they killed the butler. Any chance you will be making an English language version of this available on your site? The "aircover" phrase made me (and I bet most other readers) wince. I would wince less if I drank a paint-stripper and cranberry juice cocktail. Also, the bit about "upside" -- if you have 5% of the market the only way might not be up. Still, it was entertaining to read; I just wonder whether a version of the interview will be appearing on The Onion soon. Well worth the 70p.Patrick D'Alton Harrison, Tring
Last week, Georgeanne Slater asked a simple question, and attracted a big response..... Here's a dozen. JSGeorgeanne Slater wonders why train bogie wheels cannot be used to 'create' power, such as that provided by a dynamo on a bike. The answer of course is that the dynamo merely converts (very inefficiently) energy provided by the original power source (the cyclist) via the transmission gear (pedals, crank, chain etc) to the wheels. In the case of a train, it is far more efficient to hook the generator directly to the loco's engine. Of course, this can't be done with a cyclist, who lacks the necessary hardware. Putting a dynamo on any wheel, driven or bogie, is as good as putting a brake on it. That energy has to come from somewhere.Martin Palmer, DidsburyA look under the carriage on any preserved railway will reveal a belt driven dynamo and storage accumulators. This 24V supply is for the lighting only. Heating is by steam from the engine. Air conditioning is by manually operating the window opening and closing mechanism. Modern trains have either an on board power station, or a supply directly from the mains. No doubt they have emergency batteries for lighting. Unfortunately the batteries cannot cope with heating and air conditioning power needs. Diesels may be heated from the engine waste heat, but electric trains require the main power to be on. As for air conditioning: no power, no air conditioning and no windows that open. Such is progress.David Usher, Silsden, KeighleyIn response to Georgeanne Slater's question concerning wheels on trains that are not powered being utilised to generate power, the simple answer is that it is pointless and would waste rather than save energy. All dynamos/generators generate energy by rotating a magnet in a magnetic field; the interaction between magnetic fields gives rise to electrical energy. You don't get energy for nothing.There is a certain amount of mechanical resistance created by the drag of the two magnetic fields as they interact with each other (The angle of torque between the electrical field and the rotor is proportional to the energy generated, the more energy you generate, the larger the torque angle and therefore mechanical resistance). If you put a generator on a free spinning wheel then you would be applying an extra amount of mechanical resistance on the axle, this has the exact same effect that a mechanical brake shoe has. The mechanical drag of doing this would then need to be compensated by applying more power to the drive wheels and would be similar to driving a car with the handbrake partly on. What you would in effect be doing is converting electrical power into mechanical power and then back again on a different wheel set. Since no power conversion is ever 100% efficient you would be wasting energy. Far better to just use the same power source that powers the wheels to power the train's other electric systems as well. Mechanical load effect from generators is utilised quite well in regenerative breaking. The motor on the drive wheels is turned into a generator (by reversing the polarity of the circuit), putting power back into the grid the train runs off and slowing down the train by utilising the mechanical resistance of the generator as a brake. This is far more efficient than braking using mechanical brakes as these just waste kinetic energy as noise and heat.Stephen Deslandes, EdinburghI'd like to make some points concerning Georgeanne Slater's letter about using axle-driven generators on passenger trains. Such systems were in common usage from the early part of the 20th century, when they replaced oil or gas lights, until finally disappearing at the end of the century. The reason for their use was simple -- the steam engines of the time were not fitted with any means of generating electricity. The disadvantages of the system are two-fold. Firstly, the generator serves as a brake on the vehicle, and secondly, it only works whilst the train is moving. To get around this latter problem, it becomes necessary to use large batteries, typically adding a tonne or so to the weight of each vehicle. Even then, the output is only sufficient to power only safety-critical systems, such as lighting, and not air conditioning. From the middle of the 20th century, the introduction of electric and diesel-electric motive power made it much easier to meet the ever-increasing demands of what the Americans call 'hotel-power' from the locomotive or power-car, supplying the carriages via through-cabling. Even so, there are occasions when the locomotive struggles to provide power for both traction and auxiliaries. Friends who drive for SNCF have recounted stories of having to cut, albeit briefly, the lighting so that the locomotive would have sufficient power to start a heavy train on a steep gradient.Brian Williams, Lyminge, KentFollowing Georgeanne Slater's "train" of thought, why not hook the bogies up to a dynamo that powers the train's motor? Then, once the train is in motion, it can just disconnect from the power rail and the train chugs happily on under its own steam... Presumably Ms Slater has never noticed that when you engage the dynamo on a bicycle pedalling becomes that little bit harder. Similarly, if you did indeed use a dynamo run off the bogies to supply power for lighting, etc. the bogies would act as a brake and the electric motors moving the train would have to work harder. Furthermore, the laws of thermodynamics guarantee that any form of energy conversion is inefficient so it makes far more sense to power lighting, etc. from the primary source -- electricity from the power rail.Dr Lionel Banett, Informatics Department, University of Sussex, BrightonWhy stop at lighting and air-conditioning? Might as well use bogie power to drive the train and solve the energy crisis at a stroke. (Must be some mistake somewhere...)David Tong, LeedsGeorgeanne Slater asks why we don't use the free wheels (ie the ones that aren't doing the driving) on trains to generate electricity to power the lighting and air conditioning, in the same way that a generator on a bike wheel powers the light. Anyone who has ridden such a bike will have noticed that a bike with a generator is harder to pedal than a bike with free wheels. Similarly, as soon as you fit a generator to the free train wheels, they become harder to turn. The drive wheels then have to do extra work to drive the train forward. There's no 'free energy' being wasted at the free wheels -- the only electricity you'd get out of them would be the extra energy that the drive wheels are putting in to driving the train. Conceivably, you could extract energy from the motion of the train during periods of braking. There, energy really is being wasted, as it is turned into useless heat and sound by the brakes. But if you generate electricity from the wheels while the train is driving, all you're doing is transferring electrical energy to kinetic energy at the engines, then transferring it back to electrical energy at the generator -- an incredibly wasteful process. Much better to just plug the lights straight in, which is exactly what they do.Chris Mear, LondonGeorgeanne Slater falls into the common trap of thinking that you can get something for nothing and hence defeat the second law of thermodynamics. Her idea of using the undriven wheels of trains to generate electricity would of course consume more power to drive them than the power which could be generated.Ian Soady, BirminghamGeorgeanne Slater wonders why free-wheeling train wheels cannot be used as a source of power in the way that bicycle wheels can (presumably when a dynamo is attached to them). Georgeanna might not appreciate that when you apply a dynamo to bicycle wheel, you have to pedal harder to supply the energy that the dynamo converts into electrical energy. An electric train would have to draw more power to drive the generator attached to the train wheel. But you might as well use that extra electricity directly, rather than using it to turn a generator so that you can turn it back to electricity. A more plausible suggestion is to use a generator attached to the wheels as a form of braking. In that way the energy of the moving train is converted to electrical energy, which can be fed back into the grid (or stored in batteries), whilst simultaneously slowing the train down. This does happen on some trains (and some electric cars).Allan Jones, Yardley Gobion, NorthamptonshireGeorgeanne Slater asked why bogie (non-driving) wheels on trains aren't used produce electricity for air-con and lighting. The reason is the first law of thermodynamics, generally paraphrased as, "You can't get out more than you put in." Anyone that used a bike-light dynamo will remember that it took extra effort to pedal when the dynamo was on. You need to put more energy into the drive wheels to make up for that taken out by the bogie wheels. However, you could generate some useful electricity by taking energy from the brake system, which I believe is done on some 'hybrid' cars.Mike Hale, LeedsWhy aren't train wheels used to provide power for the lighting? One answer is that they already do just that, and have done so for more than 100 years. As early as the 1880s railway companies were experimenting with generators run via a belt from coach axles. Light bulb technology was still not far developed and an incandescent gas mantle gave a far better light, so most coaches continued with gas lighting (from a refillable cylinder fitted underneath the vehicle) until the early 20th century. By 1930 almost all trains had changed to electric lighting powered from accumulators charged by the rolling wheels via a dynamo. Locomotives were by then powerful enough to cope easily with the additional weight of the batteries and the extra friction from turning the dynamos. The early footwarmers and steam-heating pipes gave way to electrical heating, cookers and fridges in restaurant-car kitchens and, more recently, air-conditioning, public address systems and on-train phones, all routinely powered from the train wheels on the generator/battery system. But it isn't free or effortless energy. Your bike dynamo only works if you keep pedalling; the electricity generated by the train wheels ultimately depends on a hefty engine/motor keeping the train moving and the wheels rolling.Mike Whitley, WhitstableGeorgeanne Slater does not understand why non-driven wheels on trains are not used to provide power for ancillary services. To do this would simply be using the wheels and rails as a rather inefficient means of transmitting power from the engine to the generator supplying the lighting, air conditioning, etc. There are better ways of doing that job.Patrick Lee, Harlow
From their inception in the early 80s to their peak on the N64, game developerRarehardly put a foot wrong. Whether it was Alien 8 on the Speccy or Goldeneye on the N64 you always knew you were playing something special. But then it all went a bit wrong. A failure to adapt to the gaming world post N64 saw the developer bought by Microsoft in 2002, yet the slump has only continued. Grabbed by the Ghoulies and an updated Conker game failed to set the Xbox alight and were probably not what Microsoft had in mind when they splashed the cash. And the 360 has seen little improvement, with Kameo and Perfect Dark Zero, while nice enough to look at, both blindingly average. But judging by what I've played so far Viva Piñata, Rare's latest, could be a return to late 90s form (anyone else enjoyJet Force Gemini?) Today's Technology supplement has aninterviewwith Piñata's lead designer who struggles manfully to downplay the Pokemon comparisons. ElsewhereKeith arguesthat the Wii could be highly destructive.
Alicehas word thatHenry Jenkins, he of MIT and fierce promoter of computer game culture topeople who just don't understand, is one of the thought-leaders heading up a new and very exciting Game Innovation Research Lab in Singapore. Even better, the project has boatloads of money.From the announcement:The SMIGL initiative will enable students and researchers from Singapore to collaborate with MIT researchers and game industry professionals in international research projects. Beyond technology development, SMIGL will also conduct research on the artistic, creative, business and social aspects of games. The new initiative will also provide Singapore game researchers and professionals with access to cutting-edge technologies, the latest conceptual developments and links to international game development and research communities.Lest that all sounds tooIvory Towerfor some, there are some real-world outcomes:Outcomes planned for SMIGL's initial period include development of both an academic and a high-impact research program, publication of peer-reviewed research papers and production of publicly distributable digital games.The focus is heavily on developing Singapore's games market, but with an influx of cash and the right (applied and research) minds there's hope for some new interactive entertainment experiences around the corner for us all.
Fight fryer with fryerThank you for the excellent article on Raytheon's microwave "less than lethal" weapons of intense pain (Targeting the pain business, October 5). Many people believe that the US merely wants to test the technology on civilians in preparation for justifying opting out of the international ban on the use of these weapons in war. That would be unfortunate, because these are weapons that have the capability to dominate every living organism within its reach and to cause death in the most painful and inhumane of methods.R. Beth RossCalifornia&#183;They've created a weapon that can fry protesters. I say we should fight fire with fire. The system they have created costs $10m. A snip for your average despot, but beyond the means of, well, us. On the other hand, there are lots of us and I reckon most of us own microwaves. All we need to do is rewire them so that they work with the door open, buy lots of lenses that will spread the rays, borrow some car batteries and surround the White House.hecklescakes.blogspot.com/2006/10/microwave-weapons.htmlUtter nonsenseWhen President Bill Clinton addressed the joint Houses of Parliament his words were in the public domain from the moment he uttered them (Free Our Data, October 5). Anyone can use them. Tony Blair's reply at the same event is different. His words are controlled by Crown Copyright and are subject to users obtaining permission from HMSO to reproduce them. The only exception is under "fair use" by news organisations. In the US, the government is financed by taxes, so the American people have already paid for this material and collectively own it and therefore have free access. In Britain, the government is Her Majesty's government and Her Majesty owns all government publications, not the people, who are merely subjects taxed in the name of HM.Barry CowardLondonDigital rights and wrongsI would not really be too bothered losing &pound;8-worth of paperback (Will the eBook finally replace paper? October 5), I would be slightly more miffed if I lost &pound;200 to &pound;500 worth of eBook reader.Nathan SeeryNorthants&#183;You forgot the real reason that eBooks are doomed. When I buy a book. it's mine. When I buy an eBook for the same freaking price as the paper book, I have absolutely nothing. No rights, no ownership. Ebooks as corporations see them are very bad. Ebooks that are totally unencumbered with DRM (digital rights management) and with the same conditions as owning a real book would be very good.Chris TaylorPennsylvaniaPower pointGeorgeanne Slater (Letters and blogs, October 5) falls into the common trap of thinking that you can get something for nothing and hence defeat the second law of thermodynamics. Her idea of using the undriven wheels of trains to generate electricity would of course consume more power to drive them than the power which could be generated.Ian SoadyBirminghamPerfectly formedAleks Krotoski (Gamesblog, October 5) asked for an example of a female icon beyond Lara Croft. How about Jade from Beyond Good &amp; Evil? She was awesome! Her sidekick pig wasn't bad, either.Bulent YusufLondonNot so broad broadbandMatt Dunn will find that it is his 256K bandwidth that makes fast action unwatchable on his Slingbox (Technobile, October 5). If he upgrades to a broadband connection with a decent upstream of 1MB or 2MB I don't think he'd have any problems. Technology Guardian could do worse than start one of its campaigns about this, though - it is a scandal that broadband providers are hiding 256K upstream connections behind claims of 2MB, 4MB and 8MB bandwidth.John WaltersBexhill-on-Sea
A number of places in the UK have claimed to be rolling out free wireless connections for the community to encourage internet use, but only Norfolk has got it up and running. It needed to do something dramatic because, as one of the sparsest rural communities in the country, it would run the risk of missing out, not least as a magnet for industry, if it waited until the private sector came along. It is symbolically fitting that Norfolk - birthplace of Thomas Paine, acclaimed by some as the patron saint of the internet - should be thrust into this pioneering role. At present the eight-week-old experiment, funded by a &pound;1.1m grant from the East of England Development Agency, is centred on Norwich but it will soon be extended to 22 villages.Is this the future? The answer is that so far, it is going pretty well despite teething problems. My laptop got through to the web first time both in the Forum, the city's fine new community area where the central library is sited, and in a Starbucks, though the signal was patchy as it is planned primarily to be used outdoors. At one stage I had to walk across the market place to get a strong connection, probably because buildings or trees were getting in the way of a signal from one of 228 small transmitters fixed high up on lamp posts each covering 200 to 300 metres. Some 165 of these are already working and the rest will be switched on by the end of the month. The bandwidth available to the general public is only 256k but public-sector worker workers get 1MB.Norfolk County Council claims there are already 1,000 connections a day - far higher than expected - and it is already seeing benefits including midwives getting bedside access to information from the web, a TV installer able to order spare parts from a rooftop and freelance photographers able to transmit photos directly to agencies rather than having to return to the office. In future it will make CCTV cameras cheaper to install and there are plans to use mobile CCTV units that reduce rowdiness.All this is potentially revolutionary. If Wi-Fi or high-powered derivatives such as WiMax (which can transmit over tens of miles) become widespread then no one will need an internet service provider (ISP) except for premium services (such as spam filtering) because web-based email and internet access will be free. There will be no need either for the mobile phone companies as presently constructed because calls will be routed through the internet as long as the recipient uses the same service.It was partly not to upset private-sector providers (charging &pound;5 to &pound;6 an hour for access) that Norfolk pitched the bandwidth low for citizens. But if Wi-Fi is to take off for telephony it will have to cover whole towns as it is pointless walking around, phone in hand, paying &pound;5 to every local provider you come across to keep connected. The Wi-Fi enabled phones I took to Norwich did not work, but this was due to the labyrinthine procedures needed to set up new access points for these early models.Norfolk's business model of getting public funds to finance development with the council providing infrastructure (lamp posts etc) is a good one, but the difficulty of attracting scarce public finance is likely to mean that a US model, with the private sector providing capital and local authorities infrastructure, is likely to prevail. But if private money is reluctant to take the risks then the public sector should jump in. As Norwich is already starting to show, the investment may be justified simply to improve the productivity of public-sector employees. And if you add in the external benefits to business, hospitals and universities and, above all, the empowerment of ordinary people, then it could become irresistible.Paine, the great champion of citizens' rights, would surely have approved.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Technology Guardian: So tell us a little about the game.Gregg Mayles:It all takes place on Pi&ntilde;ata Island, a legendary place where live Pi&ntilde;atas fulfil their destiny of filling up with candy and being fired off to parties worldwide - don't worry, they get to come back! The player inherits the island's premier Pi&ntilde;ata-providing garden, which has sadly fallen into ruin. The story of its downfall is pieced together even as the player strives to raise a new Pi&ntilde;ata community and restore the garden to its former glory.TG: What things will players have to consider as they manage their island?GM:Lots! How best to make use of space - each Pi&ntilde;ata needs a certain amount of roaming space or it'll become ill - how the contents of the garden affect your Pi&ntilde;atas, the relationships between the different species and how to deal with any trouble that flares up, keeping everyone healthy and happy enough to avoid a visit from the sinister Dastardos, the best way to raise funds to improve your surroundings, where and when to hire Helpers and other services from the local village, what to trade and with whom, and perhaps most importantly, how to entice new Pi&ntilde;ata species into appearing, visiting, residing and romancing. You don't necessarily have to deal with all this at once, of course ...TG:Will the game appeal to both children and adultsGM:We hope so. We're known for making games that can be enjoyed by all ages - from Banjo-Kazooie to Donkey Kong Country - and we realise that there has to be more than one level of challenge present in a game, so that hardcore gamers can get just as much out of it as newcomers and younger players.TG:What about an educational component for children?GM:It's primarily entertainment, but I guess some bits are educational. We do touch on sensitive subjects such as birth, reproduction and even death - although Pi&ntilde;atas don't actually die; they just lose the identity you've given them and return to the wild.TG: It's been announced that the game is part of an agreement with 4KidsGM:Yes, 4Kids have the contract to create the TV show and handle the licensing, merchandise and so on. We don't have much information on how big their plans are in that area just yet; I expect we'll know more when we see how the game and show are received. The show itself has just premiered in America with a first run of 26 episodes. It kicks off in the UK next year.TG: And how will the game relate to the TV series?GM:It's the other way around, really, as the game had been in development for quite some time before Microsoft took it to 4Kids to gauge the TV spin-off potential. We supply 4Kids with info and assets, check over the scripts for consistency and swap ideas, but at the end of the day, they're the experts in that field. We just like knowing that all the Pi&ntilde;ata species you'll see in the show are also in the game, and that viewers will be able to pick up on little tidbits of information in the show that will help them progress through the game.TG: Viva Pi&ntilde;ata's frequently compared to Pok&eacute;mon in terms of franchising. Microsoft apparently wants the franchise to rival Pok&eacute;mon.GM:We've never actually said anything like that ourselves. People always want to compare something with the closest thing they're familiar with, and I guess our comparison point is fated to be Pok&eacute;mon. But to me the two are far more removed than people think: Pok&eacute;mon focuses on the collection and confrontation of characters, while Viva Pi&ntilde;ata offers a much wider range of stimuli and encourages the player to tackle the game in a manner that suits them. They can be direct, they can dabble, play a long game or a short game, be entrepreneurs, play it safe, help others, strive for a garden that's the envy of all their friends, or simply enjoy creating something from nothing.TG: Is the game's "food chain" system part of this?GM:It mimics real life as closely as possible - or at least the common perception of such things in real life - so that players can work out the steps without having to look everything up. So, basically, insects are eaten by birds and small mammals, which are themselves lower down the ladder than birds of prey and land predators.TG: To what extent will the players be able to customise their gardens?GM:The whole garden is basically customisable in that you can allocate any area to any Pi&ntilde;ata or Pi&ntilde;ata group within reason, sow the seeds to grow the plants you want, add or remove fences, ponds and ornaments, and build houses for your Pi&ntilde;atas and garden helpers.TG: How long does a game of Viva Pi&ntilde;ata last? Is there an overarching storyline, or is the game more of a sandbox?GM:There are goals embedded in the main storyline, but there are all sorts of other accomplishments to aim for even after that's been wrapped up. Player titles, set challenges from the factory at Pi&ntilde;ata Central, Xbox Live Achievements, the lure of attracting brand new species from the 60 or more out there in the wilderness. From day one, we were aiming for a game that could be played for two minutes, two hours or 20 hours a day, and hopefully we've come somewhere close to achieving that.TG: And, as you've said, Xbox Live extends that even further ...GM:Yes. Trading between players is one of our main focal points - you'll be able to package up and send out pretty much anything for your friends to use, from seeds to accessories to actual Pi&ntilde;atas.TG: How would you describe the game's premise?GM:To provide an empty space in which you can create whatever you choose, and the tools to enable this.TG: What inspired the title?GM:Looking out of a window at real life. The human desire to collect, swap and trade. Trying to be different.TG: Finally, does the "pi&ntilde;ata" theme stem from that last goal?GM:We just sort of stumbled across it while casting around for a distinctive visual style. The game had been in the works for a while and the ideas were all in place, but we needed an unmistakable look. The pi&ntilde;ata crepe theme was among those that our concept artist started experimenting with, and suddenly it all fell into place.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The launch of Nintendo's Wii console could be the most destructive videogame event for more than 20 years. More destructive than the launch of PlayStation, which in effect killed Sega as a console producer and relegated Nintendo to a humiliating court jester role. More destructive even than the 1983 collapse, when Atari released so many gut-bustingly awful games it almost killed the industry.Wii is unprecedented and unpredictable. Eschewing the ruinously expensive hardware war, in which console manufacturers seek to out-muscle each other with ever more complex hardware, Nintendo has built its comparatively modest machine around a novelty controller: the Wii Remote, a wireless, motion-sensing device that can be used variously as a sword, tennis racket or fly swat, depending on the game.This presents two huge problems. First, game publishers sell 90% of their products on the quality of the graphics. Boasts such as "intense next-gen visuals" and "awesome animation" are burned into the brains of marketers.But Wii is challenging this approach. Screenshots of launch games like Call of Duty 3 and Excite Truck reveal jagged polygons and mediocre distance drawing.Then there's the Wii Remote. On a practical level, this bizarre device requires developers to re-think the way games work, replacing button combinations with movements. But then there are the devastating psychosexual consequences.The barbarians - and by this I mean women and older people - are at the gates, armed with Wii Remotes. My wife will figure out how to use this device as quickly as I do, because it does not rely on the spatially illogical mapping of actions on to small plastic buttons. For many men this is a terrifying, emasculating prospect.If there's one thing western publishers are more scared of than women and old people, though, it's Nintendo. Companies are already grumbling about the decision to bundle the internally produced title Wii Sports with every console sold. The impact on sales of third-party launch games is likely to be significant.Some, however, welcome the impeding chaos. Last week Laurent Detoc, president of Ubisoft's North American division, told Reuters that he believes Wii can help his company topple EA from its dominant position as king of publishers. This could be the first of several stalking horses.An immense power vacuum is looming. Terror, catastrophe and motion-sensing gaming await.
Many companies (Samsung, Philips and Sandisk to name but three) have tried but so far no one has managed to deliver a small, Flash-based music player than can hold its own against the Apple iPod Nano. Until now, for in several departments the Creative Zen V Plus has its Apple rival licked. It is certainly sturdier and better built than the slightly flimsy Nano and is smaller too, if a little fatter. Unlike the Nano, it features video playback and comes with an onboard FM tuner. Sound quality is first class, with the Zen delivering a punchy performance that goes significantly louder than many of its rivals. Where it comes a little unstuck is its usability. Its tiny proportions mean there's no space for a Nano-style scrollwheel. Instead, users have a push-up-and-down button which is very fiddly to use. The new Nano also has the edge in battery life, running for up to 24 hours to the Zen's 20, and perhaps most importantly, the 4GB version of the Apple player is at least &pound;20 cheaper than the Zen. Nevertheless, at &pound;149 Creative has come up trumps with a superb quality mini AV player.
For a big fan of Palm's elegant operating system, it feels odd to handle a device sporting the Palm logo that runs the Windows Mobile operating system. Yet with the 750v, Palm has kept much of the design and styling of its Treo series of PDAs and substituted its own OS for a Windows one (a sad but inevitable move) and in theory should have a winner on its hands. Alas the 750v, available for the time being exclusively from Vodafone, falls a little short of the mark. Sure, it boasts the Treo trademarks of very usable QWERTY keyboard and an intuitive stylus-based interface. It also has 3G compatibility, which enables its web browser to grab pages quickly, and sports an easy-to-use home screen. There are a variety of push email solutions available for the device too. But it loses points for the absence of Wi-Fi (an inexplicable omission), a chunky design that's a world away from the slim lines of the BlackBerry Pearl, and a rather poor quality 1.3 megapixel camera. Overall the 750v is a reasonable handset, but you would have thought that the trio (Palm, Microsoft, and Vodafone) would capable of something more exciting than this.
Mark O'Connell failed his A-levels. As a keen sportsman at school, he spent too much time on the cricket pitch, playing football or doing athletics. But more than 25 years on, he's developed a device for blood sampling.He began his career as a lab technician in the Poisons Unit at Guy's Hospital in London. Eventually, he gained a degree equivalent from the Institute of Biology. A job at the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery saw him doing a PhD, then he moved to Addenbrookes Hospital at the University of Cambridge in 1995 as a senior clinical scientist.Having acquired the right qualifications, O'Connell was still testing blood. While you see doctors on US television dramas yelling, "get me a blood screen, stat" and the results appearing immediately, the reality is somewhat different. "Blood is a very difficult solution to work with. As soon as it leaves the body, its composition starts to change," says O'Connell.The analysis of blood is costly and labour-intensive. Testing begins by separating blood cells from the plasma in a centrifuge and may involve numerous steps. In 1993, O'Connell used experimental microdialysis for the intravenous blood sampling of patients receiving drug therapy. The drug crossed a semi-permeable membrane from the blood into saline, leaving the blood cells behind - in crude terms acting like a sieve - and a sample that was ready for testing. It was based on neurosurgical microdialysis for taking samples from the brain.Impressed by the technique, O'Connell set out on the long road to develop a blood-sampling device for wider clinical use. "It looked as if it was a way of producing high quality results in a very cost-effective manner," he says. "Most blood tests are actually done on the plasma or serum, rather than the cells."Blood microdialysis consists of a hollow polymer fibre inserted into a vein. A saline solution is pumped through a tiny loop, picking up substances from contact with the blood on the outside across a semi-permeable membrane.In 1998, O'Connell set up a company, Probe Scientific, and after attracting funding from private investors and the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts, he left his job at Cambridge in 2005. His lab prototypes have been turned into a production device, called the MicroEye, by Raumedic AG in Germany. By early next year, O'Connell hopes to have regulatory approvals for sale in Europe.Where might you find the MicroEye next year? O'Connell says the first users will be clinical researchers, although he has other ideas involving intensive care units. He points to published research into insulin therapy for the critically ill. Keeping their blood glucose levels within tight limits has shown reduced mortality.Professor David Menon, head of the anaesthesia division, University of Cambridge, and who works in Addenbrookes Hospital, specialises in the critical care of brain-injured people and understands neurosurgical microdialysis. "Taking a blood sample every hour for blood sugar measurement is hugely demanding of nursing time," he says. "If you had some way of continuously monitoring the blood sugar - and it was accurate and dependable - then it would be very useful."Menon has some practical reservations about blood microdialysis because of the body's natural defences. "Putting a catheter in the blood is putting it into a relatively hostile environment," he says. "They need to show it has continued accuracy and precision over long periods."Obtaining reliable results is something Dr Caje Moniz understands well. He took a biochemistry degree before qualifying as a doctor, and is now the clinical director of the department of clinical biochemistry in London's Kings College Hospital, a clinical specialist consultant on bone disorders.Clinical researchThe hospital's lab processes 2,000 blood samples a day with turnarounds in as little as two hours, beginning by separating the cells from the serum. "Centrifuging is time-consuming and laborious - it delays the process," says Moniz. Tubes may break inside the spinning apparatus, spraying out potentially infectious blood.Moniz reckons the MicroEye is useful and, if left in place for 48 hours, would not provoke an adverse bodily reaction. He also sees it being handy in places without quick access to a lab or where centrifuging is an undesirable hazard. Although saline-based samples keep longer than whole blood, Moniz also remains cautious: "It will have to be validated as to whether it reflects what our current tests can do."That might be quite a challenge for Mark O'Connell, as Kings College Hospital is opening a state-of-the-art laboratory with a robotic track system featuring large automated centrifuges and analysers.Although it won't replace routine blood sampling, the MicroEye holds great promise for clinical research, intensive care monitoring, or places remote from a laboratory. So it's definitely something to keep your eye on.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The other day I found myself on the M25. In, of course, a traffic jam. There was a traffic queue on the other side of the motorway too, pointing in the other direction and not really going anywhere either. I had a sudden insight at that moment: in 50 years' time, this scene - of fossil fuel-driven cars and trucks stuck stationary on this motorway - won't happen. There won't be that many vehicles with that fuel.Don't believe me? It's not because the oil is going to run out, but because we'll pass the point where we're finding more than we're using. Which will mean that we're burning diminishing reserves.The US government's Energy Information Agency last year forecast that world demand for oil will grow by 54% in the first 25 years of this century; to meet that, by 2025 oil-producing countries will have to supply 44 million barrels of oil extra every day. (The world used 82m barrels per day in the first quarter of last year.)But there is only a finite number of dinosaurs and other creatures from millions of years ago to be crushed into coal and oil. The International Energy Agency, which collects data from oil products, expects peak oil production somewhere between 2013 and 2037, after which production will fall by 3% annually.Which adds up to very expensive barrels of oil 50 years from now, given that we'll be scrapping with China and India and the US for oil supplies. Look at the price of oil today: at 80p per litre, if your car manages 30 miles per (imperial) gallon - which it won't in a traffic jam, but be generous - then you're spending 12 pence per mile, and that's ignoring the cost of insurance and road tax and repairs. That's a lot. So there'll either be fewer cars, or they'll be powered differently.Now, knowing human nature, one has to feel that people are going to be very reluctant to let go of their cars. Public transport is a wonderful idea, spoilt only by the fact that humans are irredeemably selfish: we're delighted for other people to take public transport so the roads are clearer for us.So, we have a scenario where fossil fuels are much more expensive and electric cars are commonplace rather than remarkable. That suggests shorter journeys (since battery technology has tried and tried for years, but won't get pushed to the limits until one can only use electric) and the price of electricity begins to matter too. By then, some government will have had to bite the bullet about where our power should come from.A combination of pragmatism and politics suggests that nuclear power is going to be important 50 years hence. Pragmatic, because as Brian Cox, a research fellow at the University of Manchester, pointed out on the Guardian Science podcast a few weeks ago, energy conservation just won't close the gap; nuclear power is the only way to give us greedy people enough power to run our cars, computers, lights, ovens and so on.And it's interesting to find that most other scientists take the same view. It's political, because one doesn't really want to rely on Russia for our gas supply decades hence. I'm not expecting nuclear-powered cars. But it's clear that things can't go on like this. And what will get us out of the jam we're in?Technology, obviously. We know how to make nuclear power stations; we know how to make effective batteries; we know how to make a world where we don't measure our journeys by the distance between petrol stations, but between power points. The question is, will we have the will to do it, or will everyone just keep chugging along behind each other?The other realisation that struck me that day was that changing the way that we think about cars and fuel isn't like - as that clich&eacute; goes - turning around a supertanker, because a supertanker has a single captain in charge who directs the course.Instead, there are millions of us making little choices about whether we buy an electric car or a fossil-fuelled one. It's a supertanker made up of millions of little boats. And they're all following the boat in front. Trouble is, we're all going in a circle. When, precisely, will we change course?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Badly returned spamsRecently I have been getting a large and increasing number of emails that appear to have been sent from my email address but are being returned to me as not having been delivered. They are addressed to my email domain (ie, what comes after the @ sign) but the name is usually a random assortment of letters. Is there a possibility that my machine has been hijacked in some way and is sending out masses of spam and these have been returned as genuinely undeliverable? I run Windows XP SP2 and do regular updates and scans.Peter HampsonJack Schofield replies:It is certainly possible that your machine has been hijacked and is sending out spam, which is leading to bounced emails. To double check, run another scan during boot-up or in Safe Mode with a different anti-virus product, such as AVG or Avast Home Edition. Both of these are free. You should also confirm that the IP address given in the mail headers is somebody else's, not yours. For help with this, seetinyurl.com/fafrs.However, if your PC is fully patched and you have been running a good anti-virus product, this is fairly unlikely. It's even more unlikely that a lot of readers have all had their PCs hijacked at the same time, and your query is by far the most common at the moment. (I'd print a list but it would be too long.) A more plausible explanation is that more spammers have taken to using wildcards to forge email addresses, or they might even be generating spam that pretends to be undelivered mail.Unfortunately, the design of the internet's email system makes it almost impossible to do anything about the problem. And attempts to fix email - such as SPF (Sender Policy Framework) and DomainKeys - don't seem to be having any visible effect. You could certainly try to register your email address for SPF (www.openspf.org/wizard.html), which will enable mail servers to reject forged emails (where the mail comes from a server that you have not registered to send your email). It's free and does no harm, but the process is very far from user-friendly. To cope with a flood of bounces, you could try adding a rule to your mail software so that all mail is deleted unless it is addressed correctly - but you'll still have to download it first. An alternative is to use Mailwasher (www.mailwasher.net) to delete it on the server before you use your mail software to collect mail. You could also try switching to an email service that provides better spam-blocking, such as Gmail, where you can still use your preferred POP3 mail program, such as Thunderbird, Eudora, Outlook or Outlook Express. But most people just seem to grit their teeth and hope the problem goes away.Finally, you could try reporting the companies that return spam you didn't send to Spamcop and other blacklists, to get them blacklisted. It's a safe assumption that the From: address on any spam email is not the address that sent it, so blindly misdirecting spam to forged addresses constitutes net abuse. See tinyurl.com/k8pll for more information.Net TVAre any TV broadcasters providing coverage to their subscribers over the internet? For example, instead of using Slingbox or Sony's Locationfree or Orb or TiVo To Go, you could just watch things on their website.Paul WoodJS:More than 400 TV stations from Albania to Zimbabwe provide TV programmes over the net, including the BBC and America's PBS. However, many just provide news clips and a few archived programs rather than streaming their whole output. Almost all these public services are free. Given the usual small windows, stuttering displays and unreliable connections, it would be hard to charge for them. See Lifehacker (tinyurl.com/obh3g) for links to some good TV portals such as Channel Chooser (www.channelchooser.com) and Choose And Watch (www.chooseandwatch.com). Bear in mind that watching TV online consumes a lot of bandwidth, so you will probably need an unlimited account.Firefox compatibleFirefox has advantages over Internet Explorer, but it does not seem to allow all sites to work properly. I therefore retain IE as my default browser - or am I missing something?Patrick LeeJS:Yes, you are missing a Firefox extension, IE View 1.3.1 by Paul Roub (addons.mozilla.org/firefox/35/). This lets you set Firefox as the default but still "load pages in IE with a single right-click, or mark certain sites to always load in IE".Backchat&#183;In Backchat, a reader mentioned ZoomCaps stickers for increasing keyboard legibility for users with impaired vision. Jonathan White responds: "Unfortunately the ZoomCaps stickers are designed for the US keyboard layout, so there are issues with the position of the @ and # signs, together with the omission of the &pound; sign. Kid Glove (www.kidglove.co.uk) produces keyboard stickers in the UK keyboard layout in various contrasts at &pound;10 a sheet. However, wherever possible, I would always recommend learning touch-typing skills over the 'hunt and peck' method."
I hate my web address:www.chrism
partridge.co.uk. It's a typographic abortion, and because it is impossible to put the initial letter in capitals, I had to rewrite the preceding sentence so my ugly, horrid, impossible-to-speak domain name was not at the beginning.But my web address and the equally nasty email address with its unpleasant "@" stuck in the middle are now as much part of my business frontage as my letterhead and business card. I don't want to be represented by symbols with all the style and panache of barcodes.My domain name and email addresses are not just style problems either. They classify me as a UK company. I am not a company and although I am proud to be British, my location is not relevant.It is time we junked the way we do internet addresses. Nobody likes it. International corporations have to administer hundreds of addresses from .ad to .zw but much prefer a simple .com. Ordinary people have to call themselves johnsmith123456789 or something equally dire just because they have a common name.It is not just a matter of style, either. Big business tries to use national domains as a way of controlling consumers - the entertainment giants particularly are trying to maintain their lucrative and anti-competitive regional controls that have kept DVD and CD prices artificially high in this country by preventing downloads from one national domain to another.The unholy alliance of geeks and bureaucrats that set internet standards could learn a lot from the old snail mail system. Traditional postal addresses are attractive, adaptable, historically resonant and contain enough redundant information to correct errors. The Post Office takes pride in delivering poorly addressed letters. Over the bar in one of my favourite pubs, the Hand and Shears in Smithfield, is pinned a postcard addressed simply "Fist and Clippers, London". It was delivered next day. Get just one digit of an email address wrong and it comes straight back.In fact, there is no real need for domain names at all now. It could all be done with tags. My web and email addresses could be replaced by a page of tags including my name, location and the kinds of things I do. To send me a message, you could type something along the lines: "To: that Chris Partridge who ranted about email addresses in the Guardian today" and the system would Google me for the URL, which would remain hidden. I wouldn't have to live under a brand I hate and you wouldn't have to find out the exact sequence of letters and punctuation that constitute my contact details. Simple but powerful.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If a business were worth &pound;1bn a year to the government and supported 25% of a booming economic sector, you'd expect a politician to be taking the credit. But not if that business is public sector information. Responsibility for policy on Britain's digital crown jewels - data on people, property and the natural environment collected at taxpayers' expense - is split between half a dozen different government departments with widely differing ideas about what they should do with it.Six months into Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign, lack of central policy has emerged as the biggest barrier to our objective: to make freely available (apart from limits imposed by privacy and national security) all data collected in the course of running public services.The government treats data in conflicting ways. On one hand, it embraces the web and freedom of information. On the other, it encourages public bodies to manage intellectual property as if they were private businesses. This involves rationing supply, charging for use and negotiating terms for commercial re-use. These prices and conditions apply to public and private users. In the public sector, they obstruct joined-up services; in the private sector they are a barrier to entrepreneurs and social activists.Case studiesSix months ago, Technology Guardian argued for a single policy: free data. Rather than trying to recover costs by selling data, government agencies should follow the US federal practice of making data available to all comers. Of course, this would kill the current business model of "trading fund" organisations such as Ordnance Survey, which returns a profit to the Treasury. Under free data, such organisations would need a direct subsidy. However, the cost of this subsidy should be set against the savings that would be made by other public bodies receiving data for free - and by growth in the knowledge economy.Every Thursday over the past six months, we have published at least one Free Our Data case study. We've looked at the failure of public bodies to agree who owns intellectual property in postal addresses and we have identified examples where Crown copyright prevents citizens having free access to material that should be in the public domain - the laws of the land, for example. We have also looked at case studies overseas, such as Manitoba's free data policy.But to change the government's mind, we need more than evidence of general unease. Part of the problem is that responsibility for public sector information (PSI) is spread across departments with wildly differing agendas. These include safeguarding the interests of trading funds.At the Cabinet Office, which traditionally sets policy on PSI, the key ministers are Pat McFadden, in charge of e-government and the Central Office of Information, and Ed Miliband, whose portfolio until this month included the Office of Public Sector Information. This key office administers the "click use" licence scheme for government publications on the web and acts as a watchdog by accrediting "information fair traders" scheme. However, it is being transferred to the National Archives - an excellent organisation but not seen as being at the heart of government. Here, the minister is Lady Ashton at the Department for Constitutional Affairs.RestlessSeveral ministers are involved as sponsors of important holders of PSI. The Department for Communities and Local Government has two ministers with responsibility for Ordnance Survey: Baroness Andrews and Angela Smith. At the Ministry of Defence, Tom Watson is responsible for the UK Hydrographic Office and the Meteorological Office.However, the department leading the UK in the biggest international PSI controversy is the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs. The Environment Secretary, David Miliband, represents Britain at the EU council of ministers, currently at loggerheads with the European Parliament over the Inspire directive, supposed to make environmental data freely available throughout Europe. (The UK's position is to support Inspire - until it threatens the interests of trading funds.)A department that should have a different agenda is the Department of Trade and Industry. Margaret Hodge, the e-minister, is charged with nurturing the knowledge economy. However, she also looks after Companies House, another Trading Fund. The DTI is also responsible for the Shareholder Executive, a body set up to ensure that the government gets the best return from its nationalised industries - which include several big PSI operators.As ever in British government, real power lies with the Treasury. Here, a key minister is John Healey, whose portfolio includes competition and better regulation - as well as the Office for National Statistics. The Treasury is the department that has the power to free data. Unfortunately it is also in the process of negotiating a rigorous new three-year spending round. When departments responsible for vital public services are being told to tighten their belts, it is not a good time to plead for more up-front subsidy for something as obscure as PSI.There are signs that users and customers of PSI are getting restless: in June, the Office of Public Sector Information ruled in favour of a complaint by a commercial business, Intelligent Addressing, against Ordnance Survey. Last month, local authorities reacted furiously to the Royal Mail's planned increases in prices for postcodes. A new trade association, Locus, representing businesses using public sector information, is sharpening its teeth. Next month, the Office of Fair Trading is expected to publish a study into the market in PSI.We can claim to have had some impact, too. In June, our debate on free data attracted a capacity crowd at the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce in London. We were nominated for this year's New Statesman new media awards. Last month, the Times published an article in which Gervase Markham of the Mozilla foundation made the case for free data. And last week, the Demographics User Group, representing commercial users of PSI, presented us with its annual award. Thank you. We'll keep plugging away.&#183; The leading lights of PSIAngela SmithOne of the two ministers responsible for Ordnance Survey, which makes a profitDavid MilibandRepresenting the UK at the EU council of ministers and at loggerheads with Europe on the Inspire directiveJohn HealeyTreasury minister whose portfolio includes competition, regulation and national statisticsEd MilibandMinister whose portfolio until recently included the Office of Public Sector InformationMargaret HodgeThe e-minister charged with nurturing the knowledge economy at the DTI&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:www.freeourdata.org.uk
When Microsoft launches its Zune to compete with Apple's iPod, it won't just be reversing its own strategies, but going against two decades of received wisdom. This could indicate a sea-change that will help more people get what they want. But it could also lead to users being increasingly locked into whichever systems they happen to buy - and ultimately paying higher prices.In this case, the key word is "experience". When Microsoft announced Zune, it didn't say it was going to ship a portable music player. Its press release was headed: "Microsoft to Put Zune Experience in Consumers' Hands on Nov 14." It was signalling that this isn't just about shipping a product. It is, rather, about delivering a consumer experience that includes an online community and wireless music sharing between Zune owners. It is, says Microsoft, "an end-to-end solution for connected entertainment".According to Ted Schadler, an industry analyst and vice-president of US-based Forrester Research, that's the new trend. "Consumers hate complex things," he says. "They want to be handed a working solution."Last December, Forrester published a research note: "Sell digital experiences, not products." It points out that consumers buy products but often don't buy the content and accessories they need to get all the benefits. For example, half the US consumers with high-definition TV sets don't subscribe to HDTV programming. The conclusion: "Digital industries must stop selling standalone devices and start delivering digital experiences - products and services integrated end-to-end under the control of a single application."The idea's poster boy is Apple's iPod system, which includes the online iTunes Music Store and iTunes software on personal computers. Analysts believe that this vertical integration of online store, PC and portable player enabled Apple to deliver the ease of use that helped it overwhelm the businesses that pioneered the digital music business, such as Elger Labs, Creative Labs and OD2 (On Demand Distribution), the online music service launched by musician Peter Gabriel.Getting horizontalThe alternative is so-called horizontal integration. For example, in Microsoft's rival Plays For Sure music system, users have a wide choice of MP3 players from different manufacturers, and a wide choice of online music stores, with Microsoft's PC-based Windows Media Player in between. Devices and music services are supposed to be interchangeable, but all must support Microsoft's digital rights management (DRM) if they want to copy-protect songs. However, this is openly licensed: anyone can play.Microsoft has argued that this gives consumers more choices than Apple, which does not openly license FairPlay, its DRM. Apple's online music store is the only one allowed to supply songs protected with FairPlay, and Apple iPods are the only portable MP3 players (not counting phones) that can play them. Some European governments, such as France, have objected to this approach, but it has been a huge success with consumers.Apple's vertical approach to the music market matches its vertical approach to personal computers, where it maintains control of both hardware and software, its own online service and even its own shops. Microsoft's horizontal approach matches the one it took with its DOS and Windows operating systems: it licensed them as widely as possible. For Microsoft to try the vertical approach is out of character, and means it will be competing against itself and its own partners in Play For Sure.But it's not quite as shocking as it sounds. Zune has been produced by Microsoft's Xbox games division, which already has a vertical integration strategy. It integrates the Xbox 360 console, Microsoft and third-party games, the Xbox Live online service and a built-in Media Center Extender that relays movies and music from a PC to a TV set. Zune is just another extension to the Xbox game plan.The trend towards vertical integration is also visible in the printing and digital photography markets, where companies are linking personal computers, printers, printer cartridges, photo paper and online services. Buy a Dell PC with a Dell printer and you will be prompted online when it's time to order another Dell cartridge.Is it worth trading some choice for simplicity and a better end-to-end experience? The problem is that vertical integration can give suppliers so much control that they can manipulate prices.For example, a colleague was recently complaining in these pages about the price of a Nokia N80 phone, worth about &pound;450. Vodafone offered him one for &pound;250 on a contract, then reduced that to &pound;150. He was upset because he could get one from Orange for &pound;19, or even for free. Of course, the networks recover the money by overcharging for calls. But because they control the whole value chain, they can do it however they like.Discovering the catchIn a horizontal market, people would buy their phones and call services separately. Everyone would know the real cost of each phone and would shop around for the best value contracts. Open competition would drive down both phone prices and call charges.The markets for printers and games consoles are manipulated in the same sort of way. Printers are sold at close to cost, or perhaps less, with the difference being made up from sales of expensive ink cartridges and photo papers. Games consoles are almost always launched at a loss, with long-term profits coming from sales of high-priced games. Microsoft has been losing around $1bn (&pound;536m) a year on the Xbox, and Sony's PlayStation 3 will lose well over $1bn in its first year.Microsoft didn't want to do this. Its original idea was to sell a software platform supported by multiple hardware manufacturers, like the PC model. But hardware companies did not queue up to sell consoles at a loss so that Microsoft could make extra-large profits on the games. They also didn't see much chance of selling hardware at a profit when rival consoles were being sold at a loss.Many of us have seen it all before. Data processing was like this from the start and the ultimate master of vertical integration was IBM. It did the research, designed and built the hardware, software and networking, told you what you needed, trained your staff and did the maintenance. If you were short of cash to pay for it, it owned a bank: IBM Credit Corp. Other large computer companies - Digital Equipment Corp (DEC), Data General, Sperry, Burroughs, Control Data, Wang etc - also adopted the vertical approach. And, of course, they were all incompatible with one another.These integrated systems suited customers who did not know much about computing. However, they soon discovered the catch: once you had bought a system, it was hard or perhaps impossible to switch to a different supplier. Relief eventually arrived in the form of portable or cross-platform software and horizontal applications such as Unix and the Oracle database. In a vertically integrated market, most customers used the database that integrated with their system, such as IBM's DB2 or DEC's RDb. In the new horizontal market, they could buy Oracle to run on IBM hardware, or on DEC hardware, or on Unix, and so on.Soon, most of the big vertically integrated computer suppliers disappeared, to be replaced by big parts suppliers such as Intel and AMD (processors), Microsoft (operating systems), Western Digital (hard drives), Cisco (routers), Epson and Hewlett-Packard (printers). Competition removed much of the vendor lock-in and brought prices crashing down.Unfortunately, it also meant that if system suppliers were no longer doing the vertical integration, customers had to do it themselves. In effect, they had to assemble their own systems from parts that might never have been tested together. No wonder the result often resembled Frankenstein's monster.Vertical integration may now be making a comeback because consumers are facing the problems businesses faced before: integrating a wide array of products that they barely understand. These include PCs, printers and webcams, smartphones, portable media players, digital cameras, set-top boxes and digital video recorders, games consoles, internet phones and home networking.In this situation, Schadler is probably right to say that "solution providers [who] eliminate many barriers to adoption will tend to win". But I also suspect that as these markets grow and mature, they will tend to tip over into horizontal ones. If we're going have 10,000 manufacturers, we can't have 10,000 different processors or operating systems, and we don't want 10,000 different DRMs. Common standards have to emerge.Kevin Werbach, assistant professor at the Wharton business school at the University of Pennsylvania, says: "Most of the time, and in the long run, the open platform solution will win. But not always. The successful technology companies are generally those who are not religious about vertical or horizontal approaches, but who appreciate that a platform is more valuable when other companies have appropriate incentives to build and compete on top of it."Insist on too much integration, and you become Sony, fumbling the crucial PlayStation 3 launch because it's trying to drive sales of Blu-ray and copy-protected Hollywood movies. Insist on a horizontal approach too long, and you risk becoming Netscape or Dell, with competitors able to undercut or outflank you. Today, there are just significantly more moving pieces in this equation, and much more money at stake than ever before."&#183; The rebirth of verticalisationGeoffrey A Moore is the guru of Silicon Valley marketing, managing director at TCG Advisors and has written best-selling business books including Crossing The Chasm, Inside The Tornado, Living on the Fault Line and The Gorilla Game. He comments:"In the old vertical model, the goal was to maximise wallet share of customer by building everything yourself to a proprietary standard. However, if any part of your value chain misfired, you could not ship the system. This happened more and more as markets began to grow at very fast rates. By shifting to the horizontal model, customers could fulfil their demand via many more swappable elements, which in turn led to better overall systems availability. Today that ride is largely over and 'verticalisation' is coming back into vogue, but for a different reason. We are now in a consumer model where the razor/razor-blade effect dominates. If you do not design the razor, you do not get to sell your blade. Additionally, end-to-end design accountability creates better consumer experiences (witness Apple with iPod, iTunes, Apple stores, proprietary Macintoshes), and these - not price/performance advances - are becoming the determining factor in buying decisions."That all said, don't overstate the scope of this movement. MySpace, YouTube and Facebook are all examples of horizontally open systems that are doing very well. Again, this is because there is a huge mismatch between the massive amount of supply coming online versus the ability of a proprietary model to generate a comparable amount of content."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Using SPP, Microsoft's new Software Protection Platform, which is even better - or, if you like, worse - than WGA (Windows Genuine Advantage).Vista uses a new disk-image installation system so every DVD will carry all the code. This will enable users to upgrade from a cheap version just by obtaining a passcode online or over the phone without needing a new DVD or a long download. This makes protection critical. SPP will therefore check that users have "genuine" (not pirated) versions of Vista, and that these remain "genuine".In other words, the fact that you bought a PC with Vista pre-activated in the factory (as most are nowadays) or had it rated "genuine" online does not mean it will stay genuine. Tampering with the code could make it non-genuine. In which case, you should be able to revert to a genuine state by reinstalling the operating system ... assuming you have a CD or other copy of Vista.If your copy of Vista is rated non-genuine then SPP will give you a much harder time than WGA. Microsoft's white paper on SPP says that after a 30-day grace period, it will switch to reduced functionality mode. "There is no start menu, no desktop icons, and the desktop background is changed to black. The Web browser will fully function and Internet connectivity will not be blocked. After one hour, the system will log the user out without warning. It will not shut down the machine, and the user can log back in. Note: This is different from the Windows XP RFM experience, which limits screen resolution, colors, sounds and other features."The obvious problem - already demonstrated by WGA - is that SPP could mistakenly decide that your genuine copy of Vista is non-genuine. And when paid-up customers get dumped into RFM, they could get somewhat annoyed.Unfortunately, we have no idea how many "false negatives" will be generated. If it's only 1%, there could be at least a million angry Vista customers next year. Unless Microsoft handles them with some care (and with more care than it's managing at the moment), then it's going to face a backlash.But if it works, it could be worth more than $5bn as people using pirate copies finally pay up. Unless, of course, they switch to Linux.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
BluEye flyerUK-based Gear4 has announced BluEye (&pound;49.99), a Bluetooth-based remote control headphone system. It provides a connection between your mobile phone and iPod and lets you view phone numbers on your iPod display,www.gear4.comXmod sound upgraderCreative Labs has announced the Xmod X-fi, a small device that fits between an audio source, such as a PC or MP3 player, and the loudspeakers. It then "upconverts MP3 music by analysing and identifying which parts of the audio stream have been truncated or damaged during compression" to provide a "richer sound that surpasses the original audio CD".www.x-fi.comMine's smaller than yoursVonage says its new V-Phone internet phone (&pound;19.99) is the world's smallest: it's "no larger than a pack of gum". It's for Windows only.www.vonage.co.uk/vphoneNokia offers WibreeNokia has launched its Wibree short-range wireless technology and is attempting to make it an industry standard. It is similar to Bluetooth but is designed to connect PCs and "small, button cell battery power devices such as watches, wireless keyboards, toys and sports sensors".www.wibree.comRead this onlineJupiter Research says that European internet users now spend more time online (4 hours a week) than they do reading newspapers and magazines (3 hours a week).Looking into it"Following evidence of illegal buying and selling of personal information shown on Channel 4's Dispatches programme on October 5, the Information Commissioner's Office has immediately launched an investigation," says the ICO.That's the styleSony has launched Vaio C notebooks in five new colours: silver, green, pink, grey and black. Mandarina Duck bags will follow for Christmas.vaiopro.sony-europe.com/showcase/en/c1Turn-up for the bookBookFinder.com has launched a shopping search engine specifically for the UK market.www.justbooks.co.ukDAB dongleGizoo is now selling a small DAB radio that plugs into a PC's USB port. It lets you listen to and record stations for &pound;49.95.www.gizoo.co.uk/Products/PCGaming/PCGadgets/USBDABRadioDongle.htm
Tom Cruise might think so. After all, being lampooned on the cult animated TV series South Park aroused such frenzy from the diminutive Hollywood hunk that he had the offending episode pulled from the airwaves. Soon after his career was in a tailspin - until finally his studio boss, Sumner Redstone, called time on Cruise's 14-year contract with Paramount.But what's that got to do with World of Warcraft, the insanely popular online fantasy game? Simple: this week it found itself laid bare as the subject of South Park's unerring - and unnerving - comic glare.In the episode Make Love Not Warcraft - which screened in America last week and is now doing the rounds at YouTube and Google Video - Cartman and friends become addicted to WoW until their game is blighted by a mysterious character who is so powerful that he can kill anybody else in the game. After deciding they are the only ones who can beat the stranger, Cartman, Kyle, Stan and Kenny go on a virtual mission to get pumped up for the final battle.South Park creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone seem to have done their homework. In the course of 22 minutes, every aspect of Warcraft's world - from the unending grind of quests to the awkward disconnection between meatspace and the virtual world - is touched upon, nudged and winked at.Of course, some of the jokes are typical anti-gamer invective (the quartet's quest, for example, begins their slow descent into lifeless super nerd blobs who can barely move), but the truth underlying the jokes has turned it into a viral success around the world.And while South Park's touch may prove deadly for some preening icons, our readers didn't seem to think an appearance on Comedy Central would prove the kiss of death for Warcraft. Over on the Guardian's Gamesblog, the comments were fast but not furious."I found the programme really understood the idiosyncrasies of the game and the 'perception' of those who play it," said Lucky Jim."Great, great episode with competent nods to games culture," added Dunc. "Usually TV shows get it so wrong."Of course, not everything was perfect. Fans of the game and the show have lined up to count the inconsistencies between one fake reality and another.One nitpicker took issue with an animated Blizzard exec fretting that "there were 5,000 people killed in the Arathi Highlands"."That number would crash the server," the nitpicker wrote on the South Park Scriptorium website. "The largest event I've been to couldn't have had more than 400 people at the same time, and we all felt the effects."Such apparently horrific errors don't seem to have killed the enthusiasm - at the last count it was still racking up thousands of views across the web.Hitting the mainstream can be a blight for some, but even Blizzard - the maker of the game whose executives were jibed in the show as corporateers - joined in the fun.On its website, congratulations are handed out to South Park's characters. Cartman and friends, it says, "defeated, nay, pwned the evil griefer who had been terrorising players all over Azeroth. Our eternal gratitude goes out to the champions of South Park."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I've been chasing McAfee for a couple of weeks over what appear to be misleading statements about Windows Vista's security, and was disappointed last week not to have a phone interview with chairman and chief executive George Samenuk for a story in tomorrow's Technology section. Or, as various deadlines passed, anyone.I was therefore pretty excited about the interview I had scheduled for 3pm today in London, with McAfee's president Kevin Weiss and George Heron, its chief scientist. They were, I was assured, prepared to deal with all the questions I'd raised in emails.But they didn't. With half an hour to go, the PR called my mobile to say that Samenuk had suddenly retired, Weiss had been fired, and my intended interviewees were already on a plane back to the USA....None of my doing, of course. They were simply the latest casualties of a string of "internal reviews" into the backdating of stock options that has also touched companies such as Apple, Monster Worldwide and CNet. As a result, McAfee will have to readjust its financial results. Restate 10 years, in fact.According to Reuters:In a statement, Samenuk said: "After almost six years at McAfee, I have retired as Chairman and CEO in the best interests of the company, its shareholders and employees. I regret that some of the stock option problems identified by the Special Committee occurred on my watch."Anyway, now I can understand that McAfee probably wasn't just giving me the runaround. I'm sure that the unearthing of financial irregularities -- not to mention the filing of criminal fraud charges against former executives from Brocade Communications Systems and Comverse Technology Inc -- meant they had much more important things on their minds.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Just a quick note to says to all those who turned up for last night's COD2 session. Apologies to anyone who wanted to play but couldn't get on - the servers only take eight players. You missed a fun hour and a half in which we covered Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch and Capture the Flag modes - the latter was particularly amusing, if only for my inability to locate my own base while carrying the enemy's flag.I don't have a PC at present so it'll be more Xbox 360 next week, I'm afraid. However, if anyone fancies overseeing a Gamesblog Battlefield PC session, I can arrange it all for you.
I was struck by an advert in the weekend papers for BP's "targetneutral" scheme (targetneutral.com). The concept is that you, as a motorist, make a voluntary donation proportionate to the carbon cost of your driving that will fund renewable energy projects. It's a cute idea, so I had to try it.I have a Volvo estate (yep, we're talking family-guy stereotypes here), which I use as little as possible but which is in the top-rate of VED tax for CO2 emissions. Using the site's calculator, I find I put out about 2.7 tonnes of CO2 a year, which targetneutral says I can offset by a &pound;15 gift to the cause. As it costs at least &pound;60 to fill a tank, I'd say this is pretty much a bargain for a year's conscience-clear motoring.Except that I can't help feeling it's a completely token measure. In his new book, Heat, George Monbiot calculates that in order to stabilise climate change short of catastrophe, we need a 90% cut in carbon emissions by 2030. That means we'd all have an allowance of 0.33 tonnes of CO2 per year. With my Volvo, I've spent the entire family carbon allowance twice over before even switching on a light.In fact, I spend more than the family's carbon allowance on the precious Volvo. Like all cars, it's a money pit. Insurance premiums, parking costs, petrol, servicing ... it tots up to thousands a year. Just on economic grounds, it's unsustainable. And we live near the city centre, so we don't even have the suburbanites' excuse that there's no other way to get around.If you stop to think rationally for even a minute, it's blindingly obvious that cars - and driving as we know it - simply do not belong to the future. Veteran thinktanker Mayer Hillman, who has recently been working in the area of "personal carbon budgetting", puts it baldly in the current issue of London Cyclist magazine: we simply have to get used to the idea of travelling less. The right to drive everywhere leads straight up the dead end of climate-change disaster.But the difficulty we have is being able to imagine a car-less future. Everything is telling me to ditch mine: the planet would be better-off, and so would I. What's stopping me? It's not as if driving is fun anymore: mostly, I'm stuck in traffic, breathing in fumes and fuming myself. Part of me is scared about how irrevocable the decision is: once out of the car market, it's ruinous to get back in. But much of it, I suspect, is emotional. I've grown up with the idea that being a fully fledged adult (especially a male one) is synonymous with car ownership. I'm proud to be a bike person, but am I ready not to be a car person?Actually, that really is pathetic. A third-hand Volvo, anyone?Bike doctorYour cycling questions answeredDear MattOn my route home from work this week, I encountered temporary traffic lights. Only one narrow lane was open, for about 200 yards. I stopped behind three cars and duly set off when the lights turned green. When I was halfway along this stretch, the lights must have changed - as I was suddenly charged at by a queue of cars coming in the opposite direction and had to squeeze into the side of the road. One driver accused me of going through a red light and others shouted abuse at me. It was a frightening experience: I could easily have been mown down. The phasing obviously did not take into account cyclists. Who is responsible for temporary lights, and what can be done about lights that don't give slower road users enough time?Julia Miller, via emailTemporary traffic lights like this will often be managed under permit by contractors (such as utility companies). These will be licensed by the local authority, which may take direct responsibility for more complex arrangements. In any case, your first resort is to the council: a quick websearch will turn up a phone number and email address to which problems can be reported.There are strict regulations governing all aspects of temporary traffic lights, road safety being the paramount issue. Public liability being what it is, if you use that phrase - road safety - loud and often enough when making a complaint, then the council really ought to jump.Make a note of when you filed a report; if by email, keep a copy. Should the local authority fail to respond, contact your local councillor with details of both the fault and your notification.I recently came across the frame of a Trek 370 racing bike. Both wheels, one brake pad and the right hand grip are missing. Is it worth spending the money to get it on the road?Alan Harnett, via emailIf it was a fabulous frame, perfectly sized for you, so all you had to find was a pair of wheels, I'd say yes. Or if you already had an old pair and the spare parts, then fine. But new bike packages tend to be better value than the sum of their parts. Of course, we should recycle bikes, but the reality here is that you'd probably be better off buying new.Email your bike-related queries tobike.doctor@guardian.co.uk
We were obviouslyveryexcitedby the World of Warcraft-based episode of South Park which aired last week in the US at the beginning of the long-running show's 10th series (enough to post about it twice), but it seems that the very population the creators were parodying took umbrage with some of the "inconsistencies" in characters/weapons/user interfaces from their beloved game.ViaTech2anddigg:"Trailers for this episode show Stan and Kyle in what appears to be the Undercity, right after Kenny is killed. In the airing of the show, they were in Goldshire.""When Randy gives Stan the Sword of 1000 Truths, he is able to talk to Stan even though Stan isn't using his headset microphone--although the animators used headsets as a visual clue that the boys were communicating via the computer, headsets are not the only way to communicate via PC. There could be a desktop mic or one built in to the monitor, etc.""This guy's character is shirtless and wears a helmet, boots and gloves. EDIT: He is seen casting Fire Blast and Arcane Explosion in Westfall(mage only spells). However, summoning scorpions is not possible with a Mage.""Cartman's character is the main tank and wields an Unyielding Maul. He is the leader of the boys' group and is always the last killed. His armor color is the same as his jacket. He is a warrior, but when you see his actionbar, it looks like a Rogues actionbar (It has Eviscrate and Stealth)."Oh no no no no no. This is so wrong.I can only concur with soopahman's comments on digg,I can only imagine how happy the South Park creators must be to see that the very people they were making fun of have turned out to put their social inadequacies on display.For more, read theoriginal Wiki article. I refer you to number 4: "Inconsistencies with actual World of Warcraft play".
"Executives at the UK-based Spamhaus Project said Monday they expect a federal judge in Chicago will soon sign an order that would suspend the domain spamhaus.org because the group has refused to recognize the US court and comply with a $11.7 million judgment," reportsAP."Spamhaus warned the order could unleash up to 50 billion junk e-mails a day on computer users worldwide, though legal and technology experts were skeptical the effect would lead to millions of clogged inboxes."Spamhaus was sued by e360 Insight, which it blacklisted as a spammer. However, the story points out:But experts said even if the order filed Friday is executed, it's unlikely people would suddenly see much more junk mail. Experts note Spamhaus' blacklist already is widely available online, and a suspension at most would provide a hiccup Web-savvy systems administrators could easily work around.
Google Docs &amp; Spreadsheets is now up athttp://docs.google.com/This is the bought-in Writely program plus Google Spreadsheets.The main attractions are online collaboration plus "You can publish your documents and spreadsheets online with one click, as normal-looking web pages, without having to learn anything new."
The Microsoft Security Response Center blog has a list ofthis month's security updates, which will probably have been installed already via Auto Update (and yet again, there was a forced reboot). For manual installation, go toMicrosoft Security Bulletin Summary for October, 2006.For of the six critical updates are for Microsoft Office.
Dear MattOn my route home from work this week, I encountered temporary traffic lights. Only one narrow lane was open, for about 200 yards. I stopped behind three cars and duly set off when the lights turned green. When I was halfway along this stretch, the lights must have changed - as I was suddenly charged at by a queue of cars coming in the opposite direction and had to squeeze into the side of the road. One driver accused me of going through a red light and others shouted abuse at me. It was a frightening experience: I could easily have been mown down. The phasing obviously did not take into account cyclists. Who is responsible for temporary lights, and what can be done about lights that don't give slower road users enough time?Julia Miller, via emailTemporary traffic lights like this will often be managed under permit by contractors (such as utility companies). These will be licensed by the local authority, which may take direct responsibility for more complex arrangements. In any case, your first resort is to the council: a quick websearch will turn up a phone number and email address to which problems can be reported.There are strict regulations governing all aspects of temporary traffic lights, road safety being the paramount issue. Public liability being what it is, if you use that phrase - road safety - loud and often enough when making a complaint, then the council really ought to jump.Make a note of when you filed a report; if by email, keep a copy. Should the local authority fail to respond, contact your local councillor with details of both the fault and your notification.I recently came across the frame ofa Trek 370 racing bike. Both wheels, one brake pad and the right hand grip are missing. Is it worth spending the money to get it on the road?Alan Harnett, via emailIf it was a fabulous frame, perfectly sized for you, so all you had to find was a pair of wheels, I'd say yes. Or if you already had an old pair and the spare parts, then fine. But new bike packages tend to be better value than the sum of their parts. Of course, we should recycle bikes, but the reality here is that you'd probably be better off buying new.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
