I'm sure you've whiled away as many hours as me reading the comments onmy review of the new iPad- 426 and counting so far - but it made me wonder about something.A notable number of the people commenting there are comparing the iPad with Android tablets, just as many of those who comment on iPhone stories compare it to Android smartphones. Fair enough.But the fascinating thing is the level of vituperation. And here's the question that popped into my head: among the people professing their undying love for Android (and you know who you are), what did you have that you could feel this way aboutbeforeAndroid?There weren't any Android handsets on sale before the end of 2008, so did you use another smartphone platform and love/hate it, and dive into comments threads to profess your undying support for it?Or did the idea of using a smartphone simply not occur - there wasn't anything you wanted in the field, or they were all too expensive, or [fill in blank]? Where were youmanningstaffing the barricades of heated debate?Understand that I'mnotasking why you use Android. Once more:I'm not asking why you use Android. But if you're a big Android fan, I'm asking: what did you feel as keen about before Android was around? And do you still feel the same way about whatever that was, or have the delights of Android supplanted it?Why Android? Why not iPhone, or Windows Phone? Because Android doesn't have any OS heritage behind it. Apple fans were almost praying for an iPhone since about 2001. Microsoft fans have had Windows Mobile, and now Windows Phone. But Android - there's no desktop equivalent. Yes, I know, Linux, but it seems to me that the number of people who are mad keen on Android is far greater than the number who were ever mad keen on Linux. Though perhaps you'll disabuse me there.So, again: if you're mad keen on Android now. what were you mad keen on before it was around - so, before mid-2008? Let us know.
Last week I wrote a piece on themishmashed messthat was Metro-style apps running on Windows 8. I wasn't alone - there wereplentyofotherswho found it similarly flawed.Towards the end of the article I was at pains to separate how I felt about the bastardisation of Windows and Metro-style from how I felt about Metro-style on a tablet device. On a tablet, Windows 8 and the full-screen Metro-style apps work very well. But do they work well enough to that you can class the tablet as a fully-fledged post-PC device? That depends on how "human" it is.Emotional highI bought my first iPad when it first came out. I had no idea why I would want one when I bought it - it's my job to understand these things, hence the expenditure. At the time I wasn't particularly into Apple stuff. I had an iPhone 3GS, but the only pieces of Apple kit I'd bought before that was an iPod in 2004 and an "Ive Special" iMac back in 1999.One of the things that I'm passionately interested in is how technology can be used to positively enhance human relationships. (I'm not particularly interested in technology for technology's sake. Even the most ardent among us would probably admit it's all a little dull. Really? That new processor can get us an extra 30 minutes of battery life? Yawn.) Most of the technology that's had a disruptive effect on society has worked because it's had a disruptive effect on people. When Orange was launched in the UK it was the first entirely digital mobile phone network. A feature of the new handsets was text messaging capability. (Other than that they handsets were pretty crappy compared to units like the awesomeNEC P4- warning: early-90s phone porn.) When Orange was launched, the company didn't even charge for texting. You can bet if Orange had known how popular it was going to be they would have charged from it for the get-go.Importantly, no one in Orange's marketing department was contriving different ways to upsell customers into sending text messages. It was a tool given to people that made sense, so people used it, then the network's monetized it. But people don't use text messaging because of what isis. What itisis inordinately dull - it's a way of encoding strings in the network's control data stream. What itdoesis let you be down the pub with your mates being bored hearing the same story for the n-hundredth time and receive a text from that special person you want to be your beau or belle. It's the emotional hit that comes from the human connection enabled by the technology that's important - not how SMS works.Facebook works in the same way. Facebook is the most boring site in the world from a technical perspective - just a socking great database of triviality. (OK, some of the "how" is fun if you need to build a socking great real-time-ish database. Do you need to?) What you're doing when you use Facebook is buzzing off of the emotional highs and lows you get when dealing with people in your life.iPhone - not impressedThe iPhone that I owned when I first took delivery of my iPad didn't impress me much. Yes, it was nice - nicer than my BlackBerry Pearl with the two missing keys and the tiny screen - but apart from the novelty of Angry Birds, it wasn't doing much for me.The first time I took the iPad along to a client's office, I was showing it around, and someone in the office held it up to his ear and yelled, predictably, "HELLO! I'M ON AN IPAD!" It actually made me quite cross - not because of the predictability of his Dom Joly-esque comedy stylings, but because he didn'tgetwhat the iPad did, and even though I'd only owned it for a day I'd already developed an emotional attachment to it.Hang on - an "emotional attachment"? Odd, right?The iPad did to the personal computer what text messaging did to telephony. Text messaging turned a box that could make phone calls into something that you could use to - for example - surreptitiously flirt with someone exciting while having a really dull day at work. It reduced the distance between you and those who provide you an emotional high. The iPad does the same thing. Email, Twitter, Facebook, anything you're into, is a factorcloserto you, a factormore accessiblethan before. It also brings the information you need a step closer too. If I want to watch Top Gear in bed, or read a book on Kindle, it's a breeze on an iPad. Do I want to prop up a laptop in bed and deal with all the faff? No. Just make what I need availablethere. Don't make me have to go overthere. Hence why I was cross with the office wag - he was lightly mocking me for an object that had quickly become important in my psychic landscape because it was already a gateway to experiences and people that embedded in my life and lifestyle as important.For me, it's a shame that the term  "personal computer" was snaffled by IBM back in the 80s. Really, the iPad is the "personal computer". What we call a PC really isn't that "personal" at all. Ask yourself whether it is, next time you're pounding away at your work desktop bought at the cheapest possible price and built from the same system image as your nearest "n" colleagues, unable to mount a USB drive, or get to sites you want through the firewall. Nope - not "personal". In comparison the iPad is a deeply personal and - here's the key word -humandevice.WOA thereThing is, there's nothing magical about the iPad. Apple are fabulous at marketing. The iPad is a really, really good device. It's staggeringly cheap. If iPad had a good competitor we'd be talking about killer sales for "tablets", not for "iPads". (But there isn't, so we talk about "iPad" sales by default.)By rights, Android tablets should sell. They're as arguably human as the iPad. They do the same thing - they bring the people you interact with online closer. But they don't sell in anything resembling the same quantities (in the west. Millions of cheap Android tablets are sold in Asia, but the research companies can't get a handle on them, so they mostly ignore them.)My best theory on this is that Android doesn't have a brand. Google changingAndroid Market to Google Playhighlights this point. That's a dumb move. Somehow Google has managed to create a smartphone platform so popular over half the phones sold are Android, yet most people who own an Android phone don't know what Android is! Best to entrench that position and rename a key property involved in the Android ecosystem away from the Android brand … Sheesh.But I digress.Perhaps a deeper problem is in how these companies think. InCharles Arthur's book Digital Warsthere's a part about Dell trying to build a competitor to the iPod. In early 2001, Toshiba had shown Apple's hardware chief Jon Rubenstein a nifty - and tiny - 5GB 2.5" disk drive. He reasoned that this would work in the music player Apple wanted to build, and tied up an exclusive contract. A year or two later, Dell wanted to compete – but decided its supply chain needed two drive suppliers. Trouble is, the suppliers put the connector in different locations. The result: Dell had to design the device with two voids so that either hard disk unit could be accommodated on assembly. Result: the player has air in it. It's physically bigger.Dell, at that historical point in the game at least, was probably better at running a supply chain and manufacturing than Apple. But by taking the focus away from the humans who would use the devices, and instead into the process that builds the devices, they stripped away some of the humanity of their iPod clone. Apple would never do this, and it's not because Jonathan Ive is being fussy or fastidious. It's because designing a device primarily around a supply chain is un-human.Apple's success comes from removing the "un-human" part of business. It's not in the size or quality of their App Store, it's not in that they're first to market, it's not in that they have the biggest database of credit cards, it's that they're focused on the human experience.Oh, the humanity!In order for Windows on ARM (WOA) tablets to succeed, Microsoft has to create a distinctly "human" tablet to compete with the demonstrably "human" iPad. Understanding how people interact with others through their post-PC devices to enrich their lives is where success in WOA lives.(You can see Microsoft is mucking some of this up already. "WOA" - honestly, is that a good name for a "human" device? Hardly. Metro-style? What is that? How do I explain that to a relative who has a passing interest in technology?)If you run Windows 8 on a tablet, you can see that it has the potential to work. The way the tablet works is very human - the touch capability works nicely; it's quick and responsive; Metro-apps ebb and flow in a less clunky way that the iPad's equivalent. Like the iPad, it's able to punt the OS the hell out of the way and allow the user to drive a quick path to the who or the what that the user needs to connect with to get their emotional hit.Metro-style on the desktop doesn't do this - this is why it needs to be killed, preferably with fire. Metro-style is the equivalent Dell having to put voids in its case to support its supply chain choices. It's the wrong way up, guys!So remember, Microsoft, when you're building an OS, it's all about my life and my world and much, mess less about your suppliers and your shareholders.Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is the keynote speaker at the firstWindows 8 Conflabbeing held in London on 18 April.
So, will it be the super hero thrills of Batman: Arkham city, the physics-based spills of Portal 2, or the hard-boiled chills of LA Noire that dominate tonights Bafta video game awards ceremony?The awards kick of at 9pm this evening, and we'll be there to bring you live coverage as the 18 categories are decided. Batman and LA Noire are the most heavily nominated titles, but Uncharted 3, Portal 2 and LittleBigPlanet 2 are all up for multiple awards.You can check out the full nominations list at your leisure.Joining the host Dara O'Briain will be a host of celebrity award presenters, including The Saturdays, Jonathan Ross and Adam Buxton. Video game luminary Ian Livingstone will also be handing out a gong.Gamesblog contributor Simon Parkin will be runningour liveblog of the event, complete with winner interviews, gossip and speculation. We'll also havea live video feed of the event. We'll provide links to both of those later. Meanwhile, I'll be on the event floor recording interviews with various developers for the Tech Weekly podcast on Tuesday and trying not to drink too much champagne.So open up two windows on your computer screen this evening, print out the nominations list and get ready for some Bafta video game award action!
An alleged computer hacker has appeared in court accused of conspiring with three British teenagers to bring down the websites of the CIA and Serious Organised Crime Agency.Ryan Ackroyd, 25, appeared at Westminster Magistrates court in London on Friday charged with computer hacking offences for the so-called "hacktivist" group, LulzSec.Ackroyd is accused of attacks on the NHS and News International, publisher of the Sun, as well as police authorities in the UK and US.The Doncaster man is the last of four British males to appear in court in the UK in connection with attacks by LulzSec, a spin-off group linked to the hacking collective Anonymous.He faces two counts of conspiring with Jake Davis, 18, Ryan Cleary, 19, and a 17-year-old boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, to do "an unauthorised act with intent to impair or with recklessness as to impair the operation of a computer" between 1 February and 30 September 2011.Wearing blue jeans, a brown Bench zip-up top and white trainers, Ackroyd spoke only to confirm his name and address.District judge Howard Riddle granted him bail until a plea and case management hearing at Southwark crown court on 11 May, on condition that he does not access or have in his possession any device that could access the internet.Ackroyd, of Oak Road in Mexborough, Doncaster, was charged on 6 March along with the unnamed 17-year-old from south London, who appeared at West London youth court on Wednesday accused of two counts of conspiracy to do an unauthorised act with intent to impair or with recklessness impairing of an operation of a computer or computers.He will appear at Southwark crown court alongside Cleary and Davis on 11 May.
Talk to parents whose children are using apps, and you'll often find a nagging concern in the back of their minds about digital play cannibalising physical play.If a toddler has access to beautiful, interactive touchscreen apps, will he or she still be interested in building blocks, plasticine, painting and toy cars? Call it a re-run of the kids/TV debate, if you like.In my experience, the concerns have been unfounded, because there isn't an either/or dynamic here. My children are as happy digging around in Lego and painting smiley faces as they are playing on an iPad.But there's another interesting trend emerging: apps that try to reach out into the real world to merge digital and physical play.You can see it in Toca Boca's Toca Tea Party and Toca Store apps, which are designed to be used as a spark for real-world roleplaying rather than a replacement for it.Meanwhile Disney and Crayola have launched accessories for kid-apps – a toy car and a crayon-like peripheral respectively. Hallmark sells teddy bears that interact with a series of book-apps when placed next to the iPad. This is just the start.Makegois another great example of the boundaries blurring between digital and physical play. The app wasreleased in February 2012by British artist and designer Chris O'Shea, who has worked on a number of installation artworks in recent years.The Makego app runs on an iPhone or iPod touch, and takes the form of a series of cartoon vehicles, seen from a top-down perspective – a racing car, ice cream truck and a river boat. That means engine noises and speedometers, ice creams and a till, and leaks and bread for ducks respectively.The twist is this: children make a physical chassis to house the iOS device – cardboard and Lego are the two obvious methods – and can then drive their virtual car around on the floor or tabletop. It's a very clever yet simple idea."I got really interested in why play is important, looking at how parents and kids play together and get surprised by things," says O'Shea."I also wanted to do something that more people could experience. Installations attract quite a limited audience, and only exist in videos afterwards. I liked the idea of having something that people could buy and play with at home."Having considered doing something with the Xbox Kinect controller, O'Shea ultimately decided to try an iPhone app. Hence Makego, which he says is most definitely a toy rather than an educational product. And one that's designed to be shared."I think we'll start to see more co-play experiences between parent and child on these devices," he says. "It's not just about giving the child a phone in the back of the car to keep them quiet. It's about using things around the kitchen table."O'Shea admits that one barrier to using Makego is that requirement for physical creation, which may not suit all parents."The barrier for some parents may be 'How do I make this car?'," he says. "You have to be the sort of parent who would sit down and make that thing with your child. A lot of people might rather buy the car though, so I've been thinking about making card templates."He is also trying to encourage anonline community around Makego, with parents sharing photos and videos of their creations to inspire others. These are already starting to filter through.O'Shea isn't dogmatic on the physical v digital play topic, but he does have strong views that physical play is important. "Kids need to have some time with cardboard, paint and Lego," he says. "It can't just be about an iPad and an Xbox."Makego has had a steady start on the App Store, with a decent chunk of early downloaders using it for half an hour or more at a time. The app is currently housed in the Education category, but O'Shea would like to see Apple tweak the way it retails apps for children."I think they need a dedicated Kids category, and hopefully Apple will add one," says O'Shea. "You want a rolling curated selection of what's new this week that isn't just tied to educational content."For now, he's starting to think about future updates for Makego, with additional vehicles the most obvious option. Revamping the graphics and adding more sounds may also be on the cards, but O'Shea also has other ideas."There are various other digital toy apps I'd like to try, which range from having physical things that you build out of cardboard around an iPad to use it as a stage or window, through to apps where you're being creative on the iPad itself."
A selection of 19 new apps for you today:Barefoot World AtlasBook-app publisher Touch Press is back with an innovative atlas app for children, based on the Barefoot Books World Atlas. A spinning 3D global can be zoomed in on to check out animations, photos and historical objects, with text and narration from BBC presenter Nick Crane. It's optimised for the new iPad's Retina display too.iPadSky Gamblers: Air SupremacyNamco's Sky Gamblers dogfighting game was one of three app demos at Apple's launch for the new iPad, so it's hotly anticipated. Its spiffing 3D visuals show off that device's Retina display, but it runs on older iOS devices too. Expect 40 jets to fly, and a combination of solo and online multiplayer modes.iPhone / iPadScramble With Friends FreeZynga has ported its Boggle-like social game Scramble With Friends from iPhone to Android, opening up even more potential for competitive wordplay between friends. It involves finding words in a 4x4 letter grid in two-minute rounds, with players taking their turns at their leisure.AndroidFlight Control RocketNow an EA studio, Aussie developer Firemint has launched an interstellar sequel to its hugely popular Flight Control game. It sees you guiding 15 different spacecraft into base safely, with robots chipping in to boost your score. It's fully Retina-friendly for the new iPad too.iPhone / iPadFIFA 12EA has taken its latest FIFA football game to Android, with the usual big licensing stats (22 leagues, 500+ teams, more than 15,000 players), and silky-smooth gameplay.AndroidLittle Fox Music BoxThis is a real work of craft: a "sing-along app" for iOS that teaches three songs to children using beautiful visuals, before letting them create their own tunes by tapping on objects in a fox's treehouse. It's the work of German developer Shape Minds and Moving Images.iPhone / iPadMass Effect 3 Live WallpaperNvidia and Bioware are making... live wallpapers? Yes indeed: this promotional download on Android kits your smartphone out in full Mass Effect 3 branding.AndroidQello - Watch HD Music ConcertsLive music website Qello has launched its first iOS app, which offers a large archive of gig videos from the likes of Jay-Z, Rolling Stones, Bob Marley, U2, Mumford &amp; Sons and other artists. It's free to download but costs £2.99 a month via an iTunes subscription.iPhone / iPadDora's Rhyming Word AdventureThere's a definite increase in the number of rich apps for kids launching on Android, after a long time where iOS was the platform of choice for children's apps. Dora the Explorer stars in this educational app from MTV Networks.AndroidZombie JombieJapanese social mobile gaming company Gree is setting its sights on western markets, with Zombie Jombie its first game on that score. It's a card game that sees you battling zombies, while using in-app purchases to boost your prospects.iPhoneNBA JamAnother big EA franchise makes its way to Android, as 30 NBA duos do battle on the court with big dunks, tricks and a local Wi-Fi or Bluetooth multiplayer mode.AndroidPurple CherryRetro emulator apps can be a controversial area, but Microsoft is happy enough to let Purple Cherry loose in its Windows Phone Marketplace. It's an emulator of the Gameboy pocket handheld, albeit without sound for now.Windows PhoneSix-GunsAnother meaty iOS game comes to Android – Google's relaxed limits on file-size may well be the spur. This is Gameloft's take on the free-roaming Wild West genre (i.e. Red Dead Redemption), with plenty of cowboys, bandits and horses to play with. So to speak.AndroidThe Final Hours of Mass Effect 3What, more Mass Effect 3? This is a journalistic endeavour: a 15,000 word longform article by Geoff Keighley on the development of the console game, including video interviews, concept art and early footage. Keighley previously did this for Portal 2.iPadMy Little GeekPerhaps the most appealing ABC app yet for tech-savvy parents, this teaches kids the alphabet in a different way: "Imagine the joy of hearing your two year old chatting away about his holographic ninja or time traveling joystick..."iPhone / iPadGO Launcher HD for PadAndroid utility Go Launcher has been upscaled for tablets, helping people customise their homescreens just-so with widgets and folders.AndroidGo PlayHere's a good alternative to letting your child loose on your iOS music library: an app that gets you to map their four favourite songs to giant colourful buttons, so they can play the Rastamouse theme to their heart's content.iPhone / iPadSoulCalibur MobileNamco's popular beat 'em up franchise Soul Calibur has made its way to Android, albeit with a side-on perspective that's more reminiscent of the Street Fighter games.BlackBerryGardeners World – Grow Your Own Fruit &amp; VegetablesThe BBC Gardeners World magazine has spawned this "bookazine" spin-off for iPad, offering tips on growing more than 60 different crops in gardens, patios and allotments.iPad
Gadget fans have been camping outside Apple stores in London, Sydney and Tokyo to be among the first to get their hands on the new iPad.The third version of Apple's popular tablet computer will also go on sale in the US and several other countries on Friday.Some people have spent days queuing outside the Apple store in London's Regent Street, which opened at 8am, and more arrived in the early hours of Friday morning.The new model iPad comes with a faster processor and amuch sharper screen, as well as voice dictation and an improved camera, similar to that of the iPhone 4S. It ranges in price from £399 to £659.First in the queue was Zohaib Ali, 21, from Uxbridge in north-west London, who waited for five days and already owns an iPad, iPhone, iPod, Macbook and iMac."The iPad is the best product of the year and there won't be any more until 2013 so I am happy to queue. I love Apple products," he said.Men outnumbered women 10:1, and the average age of those in the queue was 25. It was a queue of confirmed technophiles, each carrying £1,217 worth of electronic gadgets, from iPods to smartphones and laptops.Those waiting were handed free food and drink by companies they had contacted through Twitter.Noah Green, a 16-year-old student from Stanmore, north-west London, had been fourth in the queue but took £300 to move back.He said: "It is worth it. I am still 18th in the queue so I will be one of the first to buy an iPad. I am going to sell it though and earn some money."When asked why they were queuing, almost a third – 32% – said they were die-hard Apple fans, followed by 27% who said they had returned after queuing for earlier generation iPads, according to gadget insurer Protectyourbubble.com.Meanwhile, 15% said they were waiting because they had missed out on pre-orders, and 10% were there to soak up the atmosphere. There were fewer people waiting in line than for the iPad 2 launch, probably because Apple has opened another store in Covent Garden.In Sydney, David Tarasenko, a 34-year-old construction manager who was the first to pick up the iPad from a Telstra store at midnight, said ever since Apple chief executive Tim Cook had revealed the tablet's third iteration, he couldn't wait to get one."When Tim Cook announced it, it sounded like such a magical tool. I just got hyped into it, I guess," he said. He bought one with 4G mobile broadband capability – although warning stickers on the box say that that specific functionality will not work with Australia's networks.About 450 people queued outside Apple's Ginza store in downtown Tokyo. Some slept outside the store to be at the front of the queue when it opened at 8am, two hours earlier than usual.The excitement has benefited Apple's stock, which briefly touched $600 (£381) for the first time on Thursday. Apple is the world's most valuable company, with a market cap of nearly $555bn.Two years after the debut of the first iPad, the launch of a new version has become the second-biggest "gadget event" of the year, after the annual iPhone release.A year ago, thousands lined up outside the flagship Apple store on New York's Fifth Avenue. The tablet computer sold out on launch day, even though it did not go on sale until 5pm.In Hong Kong, a steady stream of buyers picked up their new devices at preset times at the city's only Apple store. The system, which required buyers to have local ID cards, helped thwart attempts by visitors from mainland China to scoop up gadgets early and avoid sales tax at home. The iPad's release date in China has not been announced yet.Those who placed orders onlinewill have to wait for two to three weeks for delivery. Apple quickly ran out of supplies it set aside for advance orders.The new tablet is called "the new iPad," rather than "iPad 3". This is consistent with Apple's naming practice for iPods, MacBooks and iMacs, but a break with the way iPhone models are named.Despite competition from cheaper tablet computers such as Amazon.com's Kindle Fire, the iPad remains the most popular tablet. Apple has sold more than 55m iPads since its debut in 2010, including some 40m last year, and is estimated to have more than 60% of the tablet market.Wall Street expects a strong start for the latest iPad and some analysts even expect sales of the current model to overtake the iPad 2. Apple will continue to sell the iPad 2 but dropped its price by $100 to start at $399.Sam Noble, of digital marketing specialist Koozai, said: "People queuing for days on end on Regent Street is not just a curiosity among consumers, but a precursor to fundamental change in the way companies and consumers interact."Tablets and mobile devices are rapidly overtaking desktop PCs as the preferred way people consume content online, so companies need to shape their content and campaigns accordingly. Few are doing so despite the fact that change is staring them in the face. Are their websites and PPC strategies optimised for tablets and mobile devices?"Online reviews of the new iPad have overwhelmingly praised Apple for its improved screen resolution."My epiphany came when I placed my iPad 2 next to the new model, with the same text on the screen. Letters and words that had seemed sharp on the older model five minutes earlier suddenly looked fuzzier," saidWalt Mossberg at the AllThingsD website.The inner workings of the iPad are similar to previous models,based on a teardown by the Californian gadget-repair firm iFixit, one of whose team queued up in Australia to get one of the new tablets and quickly took it apart.iFixit cofounder Luke Soules found Apple suppliers Qualcomm, Broadcom and Samsung had maintained their key roles in the newest iPad. It includes a Qualcomm LTE cellphone chip and a Qualcomm wireless modem for 3G and 4G. Broadcom supplies a semiconductor handling wireless tasks like WiFi and Bluetooth, according to iFixit.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe New iPad: how a gut renovation masquerades as incremental innovation &gt;&gt; Forrester BlogsSarah Rotman Epps:The new iPad shares nearly nothing with the iPad 2 hardware, according to Apple executives I spoke with. Its retina display has 1 million more pixels than a large-screen HDTV. The new A5X chip has, according to Apple, four times the processing power of Nvidia's Tegra 3 chip. Compared with iPad 2, it has a nicer camera, a video camera, dictation input, and 4G, while still squeezing out 10 hours of (Wi-Fi) battery life. It's a wee bit thicker and an ounce heavier. And yet, in my conversations with numerous reporters over the past few days, the theme they kept bringing up was "incremental innovation": Will the next iPad be innovative enough to maintain Apple's momentum? If the iPhone 4S is a case study, the answer for consumers is a resounding "yes."Sort of puts the "iPad 2S" jokes into context.Apple's iOS runs HTML5 games three times faster than Android | VentureBeatThe platforms that run HTML5 faster are likely to have an advantage in running a whole new wave of applications and games. So Spaceport.io, the cross-platform mobile game development tool maker, ran a study to find out whether iOS (iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch) is faster than Android at running HTML5 games. Hands-down, iOS won."Android" in this case being the Samsung Galaxy Nexus (which got the top mark of the Android devices tested), and "iPhone" being the iPhone 4S.Browsing behavior in February: Internet Explorer and Chrome down, Firefox up &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThis means that Firefox is retaining a slender lead over Google's browser. Last month we speculated that the halt in Chrome's growth might be related to Google's decision to penalize Chrome's positioning in its search results due to an advertising campaign that contravened Google's rules. The sixty day penalty will expire in the next few days, restoring Chrome's prominent positioning in Google searches.Get your diaries out and watch for those Chrome ads.BitTorrent pirates go nuts after TV release groups dump Xvid &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakFrom February 22nd and earlier in some cases, release groups including ASAP, BAJSKORV, C4TV, D2V, DiVERGE, FTP, KYR, LMAO, LOL, MOMENTUM, SYS, TLA and YesTV began releasing TV shows in the new format. Out went Xvid and avi, in came x264 and MP4.The scene is set. (By the way, calling them "release groups" is clever spin. Makes it sound like the TV episodes are being kept in cages too small to turn around in.)However, while the release groups want to move with the times, there are many people consuming their content who either don't or can't. In the main, people seem disappointed because their standalone Xvid compatible DVD players won't play the new releases. Some of the reactions are polite enough, but show a misunderstanding of how the system works... At worst, some of the comments show an embarrassing sense of entitlement and an attitude that those downloading for free are actually "customers" of these release groups and as such deserve to be treated better.An "embarrassing sense of entitlement" among people illicitly downloading content for free? We're shocked,shocked.A story about an iPad browser that never was &gt;&gt; Geek &amp; MildIt was May or June of 2010 (I can't remember exactly) and we were loving our brand new iPads ... except for the web browser, Safari. While advancements had been made in terms of its speed, we felt it still lacked in features and experience implementation - or UI. So we had the brilliant idea to make a new browser for the iPad.See if you can figure out why it's not available before you click through.iPad 3 4G Teardown &gt;&gt; iFixitOh my god - it's full of battery.Search behavior of iPad users in Russia &gt;&gt; YandexAccording to Yandex.Metrica, by the end of January 2012, at least one million of all online visitors to websites in the Russian internet4 were iPad users. More than 700,000 of them were from Russia. The iPad was officially released in Russia in November 2010. By that time, several tens of thousands of iPads were already in use in the country. In early 2011, their number exceeded 100,000 and then it increased six times during the year. Over the same period, the number of both mobile phone users and PC users also went up, but the progress was significantly slower than the growth in the number of iPad users - the number of mobile phone users increased 2.5 times, while the number of PC users grew only 1.4 times.This sounds like one of those old jokes - "in Soviet Union, search engine watches you!"The day I tried teaching primary school kids to code (and succeeded) &gt;&gt; Martin SaundersInspirational. This is what we want from teachers.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
EBay is set to shake-up the controversial secondary ticketing market with the official UK launch of the online marketplace StubHub.StubHub, which was acquired by eBay in 2007 in a deal worth $310m (£197m), will take on rivals such as Seatwave and Viagogo which connects buyers and sellers of tickets online.The latter was the subject of a recent controversial investigation byChannel 4's Dispatches.Viagogo, which was launched by StubHub founder Eric Baker,sought a high court injunctionto stop Channel 4 airing The Great Ticket Scandal last month.The programme, which is critical of the business practices employed in the secondary ticketing market including inflating prices, was aired after Channel 4 overturned the injunction.StubHub estimates the UK secondary ticket marketplace to be worth more than £300m.StubHub, which claims to be the largest player in the US, aims to distance itself from such accusations, pointing out that it has what it claims is the highest customer satisfaction ratings in the ticketing industry.Launched in San Francisco in 2000, StubHub says that it backs purchases with a guarantee system, called Fan Protect, which guards against fraud and ensures that buyers get what they pay for.The UK beta site, which officially launches on Friday, has more than 140,000 tickets to events including Madonna and Coldplay.StubHub also intends to launch a retail outlet in Great Portland Street, central London, to allow fans to buy, pick up or drop off tickets.Other "pop up" locations are planned across the country alongside a UK-based call centre for inquiries.In 2008 the governmentwarned ticket re-selling sitesabout offering tickets to "crown jewel" events, such as the Grand National, Olympics and Wimbledon, saying that inflated prices don't add anything to the cultural life of the country, but instead leeches off it and denies access to those least able to afford tickets.
Yey, Friday! Making any game purchases today? Tell us about them!
We have to like the hero. That's rule one in the adventure game handbook. If we don't like the hero, we just won't care whether he escapes with the treasure or not. The moment he falls into the game's first trap and gets his pantaloons impaled on a spike, we'll put down the controller and say to ourselves: well, sod it, he was clearly an idiot anyway.It's not hard to make the main character likable. There are endless ways of doing it. Have them fire off a couple of decent wisecracks and we're in love. If they help a small child in the opening sequence we'll follow them to hell and back. They don't even have to say anything. If we're honest, we'll root for a hero just for looking like a bit of abad-ass. We're that easy to please.So it's pretty much inexplicable that the creators of Ayumi, the buxom heroine of hack'n'slash adventureBlades of Time(Xbox 360/PS3), have packed the first five minutes of their game with reasons to want her to fail. Unless, perhaps, the purpose of this game was to lay the groundwork for the future release of a title in which you kill her, repeatedly, in ever more gruesome and unpleasant ways. If so, then the hero of that game will have my heart for ever from the moment they first punch her in the face.First off, she's a clone of Lara Croft. A botched clone, admittedly – she's blonde – but a clone nonetheless. Glamour-model curves are lamentably par for the course among videogame heroines, but a dual-wielding treasure hunter with a penchant for skimpyhotpants? They might as well have called the gameMagical Tomb Raider. The few parts of Ayumi that weren't grown straight from a lock of Lara's hair were clearly plucked from the big box of videogame cliche: she is impulsive, and known in the treasure hunters' guild as a rebel, but the best there is.Forget the generic template, and you will still find plenty to dislike about her. Not least in the game's baffling openingsequence, in which Ayumi and her partner Zero – named after Ayumi's redeeming features – attack and kill, in cold blood, several members of their own guild, just because they are bored of waiting for their turn to use a magical round portal. Then, having slaughtered half her colleagues for the sole crime of standing near a glowing sphere, she tells the Guildmaster: "I will use the sphere now! Sitting and waiting's not my style!", as if impatience is a tried and tested defence for homicide. And, best of all, he responds: "Well, you deserved it. I won't be stopping you." Meaning that the first thing we see Ayumi do is wipe out a load of her own innocent allies in order to achieve something that no one was ever preventing her from doing in the first place. Which must be close to the exact polar opposite of helping a child.Things only get worse when she heads through the portal. First of all, because the realm she enters – which is the setting for the rest of the game – has been blessed with just about the least original name in fantasy gaming history. Ready?Dragonland. That one must, surely, have been a place-holder that the writers just forgot to come back to.Worse even than the name is the fact that Ayumi is alone in Dragonland, and takes this fact as an invitation to talk to herself. A lot. In fact, hardly a moment passes in the first hour of the game without Ayumi broadcasting her tedious innermost thoughts for the benefit of her controller. And while she may have the body of a lingerie model, she clearly has the mental age of a six-year-old. So, for example, when she first encounters a zombified opponent, she exclaims, "They're so ugly! They look like humans!", and at various confusing moments yells, "What's going on?" and "It doesn't make sense here in Dragonland!", as if the total lack of logic in the story is the player's own darn fault.All of which, alas, makes it very difficult indeed to look past the character to the gameplay, which is, in places, innovative, challenging and satisfying. Particularly cool is the ability to rewindtime, fighting alongside versions of yourself moments earlier, attacking an enemy from all sides simultaneously. But once you've decided you hate Ayumi, the game is all over bar the hacking and slashing.
Where's My Water isn't just notable for being the25 billionth downloadfrom Apple's App Store.When it launched in September 2011, its alligator hero Swampy became the first new Disney character to be launched in a mobile game, rather than in another entertainment medium.The significance shouldn't be overblown – Swampy isn't appearing on cinema screens just yet – but the sight of Disney launching a new character on mobile and supporting him through its other channels is interesting."In China, we're introducing Disney, and one of the important vehicles is Swampy," says Bart Decrem, senior vice president and general manager of Disney Mobile, who joined the company in July 2010 when it acquired his apps startup Tapulous (of Tap Tap Revenge fame)."The company is really supporting it, with t-shirts and documentaries on the Disney Channel, and YouTube stuff. It's not something I could do if we were a little startup."Disney hasn't released sales or download figures for Where's My Water, which is available in free and paid versions for iOS and Android. Decrem gives a hint at its scale, though."When we started Tapulous, I told our investors we'd get 1m users in 18 months. We got them in 20 days. And this thing [Where's My Water] is exponentially bigger and faster. It's already bigger as a business than Tap Tap Revenge."The game was created by an internal development team of 5-6 people in six months, according to Decrem, who says they now have creative ownership of the Swampy character, including approving marketing collateral and merchandise.He says the aim was to create a startup-like environment to develop the game, but then capitalise on Disney's network to promote it.Alongside that, Decrem's Disney Mobile team is figuring out how best to bring the company's established characters to mobile in interesting ways."We're going to build 10 games over the course of the year, trying to bring Disney characters to life in cool new ways, or create new Disney characters," he says."I'm excited about both. There is so much power in Disney characters, but what you have to do is build a fun game with great mechanics, and also think about the characters you have, and placing them in a world that makes sense."As someone who's been involved in iOS apps since before the official beginning – Tap Tap Revenge was originally developed for jailbroken iPhones in 2007, before being acquired by Tapulous and rebranded for the launch of the App Store in July 2008 – Decrem has a good perspective on how the store has evolved."In any ecosystem the barriers to entry grow up, discoverability becomes a bigger issue, and distribution consolidates around a number of key players over time," he says."Some of that is going on, but you're also seeing something like Temple Run shoot to number one, which is made by three people who are just loving what they do. Apple is doing a fantastic job at managing an ecosystem that rewards quality."He admits that there are challenges, particularly the cat-and-mouse game of dealing with companies and tools that try to game the App Store rankings system.Decrem is also interesting on the explosion in freemium business models in the mobile games industry – something Tapulous was early into with Tap Tap Revenge."2011 was all about builder and RPG-sim games being freemium, but 2012 is about any game genre – Infinity Blade core-style, word games, puzzle games… Any kind of gameplay will get a freemium wrapper," he says.That's even more the case in countries like China, adds Decrem, where a lot of iPhones are jailbroken, and very few Android handsets have a credit-card associated with the user's account."There are a lot of places where it's very hard to monetise a paid game, so by necessity freemium is going to be the dominant model," he says."Now, we can't just put a freemium model on top of Swampy without thinking hard about the gameplay. But the cool thing here is that it's at least as important to create new IP and introduce Disney to new countries."He continues: "Somebody's going to build a game that reaches 1bn people. That's a big deal, even though the economics are small by Disney's standards. We can reach 1bn people at near-no cost. Boom, all of China knows who Disney is."One challenge for Decrem and Disney is that the "somebody" is likely to be Rovio Mobile with Angry Birds, which is currently well over 700m downloads. That company has made no secret of its desire to become the next Disney, although Decrem prefers not to comment publicly on that aim.You can surmise this, though: the scale and reach of mobile apps may have the power to create a new Disney, but the old Disney is still very much alive and kicking on mobile, with new characters as well as old.
In the 1960s,the pioneering British artist Roy Ascottbecame fascinated with the possibilities of the telecommunications network as a conduit for his work. He had long been interested in the idea of cybernetics and human-machine interfaces, but as the internet emerged, he saw in it, the possibility of a new form of interactive art, in which groups of distant participants would be able to collaborate in online projects.Later he coined the term telematic art to describe artworks constructed with telecommunications networks as their medium. The most famous example is his 1983 work, La Plissure du Texte, which arranged for a group of artists in different places around the world to collaborate, via the internet, on an emergent narrative, each contributing a section of a story to an online work, none having an overall vision of where that story may lead. Some of the collaborators may have known each other, others wouldn't, but all they shared was a string of words appearing on their separate terminals – a tale emerging seamlessly from the web.Fast forward 20 years and we have Journey, the latest release from experimental LA studiothatgamecompany. If there's one thing most game critics can agree on, it is that you must experience it. This ethereal wonder – part adventure, part meditation on life and death – is one of the most fascinating mainstream video game releases of the decade; not as much for its content (which is beguiling enough) but for what it actually is.And what it actually is, is the key question. Because, by generally accepted definitions of the word, Journey is not a game. It has no fail state: although there is perceived peril, it seems impossible to actually "die" while playing. There is no time limit, so solving puzzles has no sense of tension. And although the presence of puzzles suggests challenge and therefore a game-like experience, these tasks are simple and toy-like.Players cannot compete for resources or physically interact (the collision detection was apparently removed so that participants couldn't knock each other off walkways). Although there is exploration, the experience ends inevitably with one conclusion – though of course, that conclusion can be interpreted differently by each player.So what is it?Well, thatgamecompany continually refers to Journey as an experiment. When I interviewed the producer Robin Hunicke last year, she was very clear about that. Aware that they'd never produced a game with a traditional multiplayer component before, the studio set about exploring the meaning and conventions of online interaction, and sought to manipulate them to create something more spiritual and reflective. All thatgamecompany titles are effectively a Voight-Kampff test – they are designedspecificallyto provoke an emotional response. And in this sense, they are more like art than games.That's what Journey is. A work of interactive art. Through its gorgeous emotionally resonant soundtrack, its looming symbolic landscapes, its exploration of interactivity and telepresence, it wants us to ask questions and experience feelings, without necessarily having to engage with game-like structures. It has more in common with the works of, say, interactive art collective Blast Theory, than it does with Modern Warfare or other traditional online games.The problem, I suppose, is that the term "Art" carries so many connotations, many of them negative. Art can mean pretention, hubris, exclusivity. The brilliance of Journey is the way in which it has got people to think about and engage with the experience as they would a work of art, without necessarilyhaving to be conscious that they're doing so. Journey is art without all the baggage; it is art without a gallery, art without a critical elite telling you what it means or where it fits in to their esoteric pantheon.All art is about communication – that's the only definition that really works. And at the centre of Journey, is the conundrum – how do two players who find themselves in this landscape, with no traditional means to talk to each other, share the experience? And what is the game trying to tell us, anyway?Roy Ascott imagined an era of art in which the lines of telecommunication were both the medium and the message, and in which stories emerged from telepresence. Journey is the modern commercial realisation of that. But the wonderful thing is, you don't have to think about any of this as you are sliding down a great sand dune, interweaving with a stranger, intermittently bouncing sound icons between each other; and, of course, you don't have to think about art when you look at an amazing painting by Titian, or Monet or Picasso. Whatever you feel is the most important thing. That isn't pretentious, that's sort of beautiful.
If you open and edit Microsoft Word documents from a USB memory stick, does this leave a "footprint" or any other trace of the files on the computer?JohnYes, I would expect the files to leave obvious traces, though I would not expect to be able to find the contents of the documents easily if at all. For example, the names of recently-used files should be listed in the Start menu under Documents, with older ones under My Documents. They will almost certainly be visible in Word's list of Recent Documents, and probably in Windows Explorer's history. Unusual file names could well attract attention.Word also keeps temporary copies of documents in hidden recovery files start with a tilde. Word usually opens these in the same directory as your original file, but sometimes bits of text end up in files with names like ~WRL0001.tmp or in the Temp directory. I guess that might happen if Word crashed or your USB stick didn't have enough space. Finally, parts of any Windows file may be stored in the Windows swap file (pagefile.sys) or the file used to hibernate the PC (hiberfil.sys), though it could be hard to extract any details.You can minimise the problem by making sure that Word's auto-save function is turned off, and by runningCCleanerto clear out temporary files and histories. In fact, there'sa version of CCleaner that runs from a thumbdrive, so that people can remove traces of their files when using PCs in cybercafes and libraries.One alternative would be to run your own Chrome or Firefox browser from the USB memory stick, perhaps usingPortableApps, and edit Word files using the free online Microsoft Office apps accessed via Hotmail or SkyDrive. These are not fully featured but at least they don't mess up Word documents like Google Docs.Zoho Docsmight also be worth a look. It depends on your documents. Simple text files are no problem, but multi-column Word documents with special heading fonts, embedded images, equations, footnotes etc are hard to handle.CD stuck in driveI have an Acer laptop running Windows Vista. On trying to eject a CD there was no response … except for a helpful (?) message saying "there is a problem ejecting a disc from drive E".Stan LawrenceIs there a tiny hole just under the drawer, probably on the left? If so, poking that with the end of a paperclip should open thedrive. If not, (1) try ejecting the CD from the My Computer screen; (2) reboot your PC: the drawer should open before the PC starts; (3) try updating or renewing the driver; (4) put the laptop down on a flat table with agentlebang. This is good old fashioned "percussive maintenance". If all else fails, you may have to unscrew the bottom plate and extract the drive. [In this case, the paperclip worked.]Skipping CDsAround 2003, I transferred some private recordings made on DAT and reel-to-reel tapes to CD-R discs. Recently, skipping has appeared towards the end of tracks during playback on my Philips CD player and on the computer's CD player. Have you any suggestions?Derek RoughtonThe CD Repair FAQ (list of frequently asked questions) has a good section onskipping, and describes four basic types. The simplest alternative would be to make new CDs from the files, if they are still on your hard drive or on a backup. If you didn't keep the originals, you can try using the freeExact Audio Copysoftware to copy the skipping discs. EAC is slow because it reads disc sectors multiple times and compares the errors; in the worst case, it can read something 82 times. However, if it's possible to read a CD, then EAC will usually do it.You may also find another recent answer useful:CD, DVD or SD: what's best for backups?Auto-updates won't turn onMy computer is running Windows XP with Norton Anti-Virus. I became aware recently when checking the Security Centre that neither the firewall nor automatic updates were on. I was able to turn on the firewall, but when I tried to turn on the automatic updates, I got the following error number: Ox80070424. Is there an easy way to solve this?Mary HaggerMicrosoft's support site has a lot of entries for error 0x80070424, but the gist of the problem is that Windows Update doesn't have the right entries in the Registry. However, it could also be a malware infection, so the first thing to do is to run Microsoft's freeSafety Scanner(msert.exe). If it finds anything and fixes it, you should restart your PC and runMalwarebytes Anti-Malware Freefrom your desktop, selecting the Quick Scan option. MBAM is more thorough than Safety Scanner, and the aim is to catch anything that Norton might have missed.Next, go to the Microsoft Support page:How do I reset Windows Update components?This page should pop up a FixIt window offering to "Automatically diagnose and fix common problems with Windows Update", so click the "Run Now" button and do that. The problem may be that a particular file, wuaueng.dll, has not been registered correctly, so if Microsoft's fix doesn't work, try registering that file manually as described inMicrosoft Answers.
A selection of 13 new apps for you today:SparrowDisappointed with the official Gmail app for iPhone? Sparrow should be your first port of call. A spin-off from the desktop application of the same name, it's an IMAP email client that works with Gmail and other accounts, with an intuitive swipe-based interface.iPhoneStrumifyStrumify is the latest iOS app that wants to teach people to play the guitar, using the device's microphone to listen to their playing and provide feedback. In fact, this also covers ukulele and mandolin players, teaching chords and progressions, with songs and additional exercises available via in-app purchase.iPhoneChaos Rings IISquare Enix's acclaimed iOS RPG franchise has a sequel, with a hero tasked with sacrificing five people to save the world, including a childhood friend. Future updates are planned with extra missions, which is good, but the decision to sell the iPhone and iPad versions separately (£12.99 and £13.99 respectively) rather than one universal build is a puzzling strategy.iPhone / iPadDoDonPachi Resurrection HDSquare Enix should take a look at fellow Japanese firm Cave for a better example: its new Bullet Hell shoot 'em up costs £7.49, but is a universal app so buyers can play it across their iPhones and iPads. Enormous amounts of bullets, and a smartphone-optimised scoring mode.iPhone / iPadDreamtopiaNew from DeNA subsidiary ngmoco is Dreamtopia, the latest Android game in the West to run on its Mobage platform. "Join thousands of other players, in an whimsical, living, breathing world. By interacting with their dream lands, you'll work together to achieve unimaginable things," explains its Google Play store listing. Dreamy world-building strategy, in other words.AndroidThe Daily's Angry Birds Space GuideThis may be the moment when the app world eats itself: News Corporation's mobile-only newspaper The Daily has made an app all about the next version of Angry Birds ahead of its 22 March release. It introduces new characters and gameplay, with content from Rovio's partner NASA thrown in for good measure.iPhone / iPadPeggleEA has taken PopCap's globe-conquering peg-puzzler to BlackBerry smartphones, offering 55 levels to play through, and a Duel Mode to take on friends.BlackBerryAvengers Origins: HulkDisney Publishing's latest book-app celebrates the origin story of the Hulk, as Dr Bruce Banner gets a gamma radiation blast that puts him in touch with his inner angry green giant. This is aimed at younger fans though, with voice narration (by Stan Lee!) and interactivity.iPhone / iPadBarnstormerAardman Digital has teamed up with Nokia to make a Windows Phone game based on Shaun the Sheep: a platformer starring everyone's favourite animated TV ruminant (unless you prefer Timmy Time, of course).Windows PhoneICQVeteran instant messenger service ICQ has a new Windows Phone app, although it also taps into Google Talk and Facebook chat, which is handy for anyone who forgot their ICQ login years ago.Windows PhoneMotoHerozDeveloper RedLynx started life making mobile games, then had a huge Xbox Live Arcade hit with Trials HD. Now it's back on iOS with MotoHeroz, a driving game that "takes the fun, fast gameplay of a Trials style game, adds it to a frantic rally race, and delivers a fresh new kind of side-scrolling, platform racing game". It's based on the WiiWare game of the same name.iPhone / iPadSunPhosThis sounds niche, but could actually be really useful. It takes any location and predicts the sun path from dawn until dusk, on any given day. Suggested uses include gardening, architecture, photography and househunting.AndroidGridrunnerLegendary games developer Jeff Minter has ported one of his classics to iOS. GridRunner, which originally came out in the early 1980s, includes the original C64 version, as well as a modernised version for 2012.iPhone / iPad
A decade ago, for a few fleeting moments, Sega had some of the most creative and boundary-pushing developers in the business. Its arcade division was pumping out brash, genre-hopping oddities like Crazy Taxi, Brave Fire Fighters and Jambo Safari, while on Dreamcast there were dizzyingly fresh experiences such as Rez, Chu Chu Rocket and Shemue – games of imagination, colour and flamboyance. Games that truly celebrated their game-ness.Then there was Jet Set Radio. Developed by Sega's Smilebit team (now responsible for the Yakuza series), this unusual adventure pitted rival graffiti gangs against each other on the streets of Tokyo, tagging buildings and vehicles while avoiding the cops. It had a ridiculous J-rap/dance/rock soundtrack and daft characters who reflected a crazy nineties reading of early eighties New York street culture.Most importantly, it popularlised a new way of rendering 3D visuals so that every object had a cartoon-like black border. It was called cell-shading, and for a while everyone was doing it – indeed, lots of developers still are (see Catherine, Borderlands 2 and Fable Heroes). It was perhaps one of the most important things to happen to polygonal graphics since the introduction of texture mapping; it meant that 3D didn't have to be synonymous with photo-realism, that 3D could also be strange and subjective. It was modernism all over again.Now Sega is bringing out a new translation for XBLA, PSN and Steam, in 16:9 widescreen HD. It's an amalgamation of the original Jet Set Radio with the US version, Jet Grind Radio (which added a couple of extra maps and new songs), and the Japan-only update, De La Jet Set Radio. The game's three chapters will take in five areas of both Tokyo and the fictitious Grind City, all visually overhauled, but still recognisable to fans. Key selectable characters Gum, Tab and Beat are also back, displaying their aggressive rude kid attitudes as though it were still 2000.I played a brief demo of the Shibuya bus station level at a Sega press event in London last week. As ever, the challenge is to locate the graffiti tags left by rival gang members and then cover them up with your own. While exploring the environments, there are rails to grind, ramps to jump and tricks to pull off;  these still combo together nicely, bringing in the open, breezy fun of the early Tony Hawks titles.The controls have been well mapped to modern twin analogue controllers. The right stick controls the camera, allowing you to size up areas and plan tricks with more ease; right trigger is speed, and left sets you up in front of a wall to start spraying some paint.Tagging is a case of copying the onscreen directions with the left stick in order to control your characters' spray can. Things feel a little fiddly at first, and my skater was constantly failing to get onto the correct trick lines because the turning circle is very wide. But, as in the original, you get the hang of it and begin to learn the correct routes through the leaps, walkways and stopped traffic. With the timer ticking down, officers of the law soon arrive, marching in like a freakish combination of the Thought Police and the Keystone Cops. The game retains its sense of both freedom and pressure. It's still fun.Sega is looking to add extra contemporary value to the release. Along with online leaderboards, players are able to create their own tags; according to the Sega rep I spoke to, there are plans for an upload service allowing graffiti to be shared and rated – although other reports suggest this has been ruled out. The publisher is also considering DLC packs by famous graffiti artists (the game's original tags were created by early Banksy collaborator, Inkie). It also comes with Trophies and Achievements.The soundtrack has yet to be fully announced, but some tracks are likely to be missing due to licensing difficulties. The question is, I guess, whether this idiosyncratic title will have anything to offer newcomers.I think it may. Like the also soon-to-be-updated Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, Jet Set Radio speaks about a period in game design when developers were toying with open-world structures while catering for a new audience of post-pub, twenty-something players who wanted their lifestyles reflected in the games they bought. Whole new genres were emerging. They were interesting days.Plus, the vibrant depiction of a hyper-real Tokyo street culture – all robotic otaku and brash decora girls – is likely to be worth the entrance price all by itself. Jet Set Radio is a fashion museum with a serviceable freestyle skating game attached. And if you were there at the time of Sega's pomp, those heady days of experimentation and craft, it is almost certain – unless the other maps are catastrophically bad – to raise a warm smile of recognition.• Jet Set Radio will be released on PS3, Xbox 360 and PC in summer 2012
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamJoe Pirillo uses Mac OS X for the first time &gt;&gt; YouTubeYesterday weshowed you Chris Pirillo's father using Windows 8 for the first time. Now here he is using Mac OSX for the first time, and trying to find "the internet". Fascinating piece of user interface film: watch this before you judge users. (Pirillo senior is a confirmed Windows user, though he has used iPads and iPhones.)Response to Open Data article in The Guardian &gt;&gt; Open Rights GroupThe Guardian published quite a goodarticleon Wednesday in relation to a publicannouncementon Open Data by Francis Maude, and we wrote a response highlighting some issues the Guardian missed.  While the advances since 2006 are undeniable, the comment above shows there is a long way to go. The new Public Data Group that will amalgamate OS, Land Registry and some other data providers will perpetuate the monopoly model while giving away minor data concessions. The issue here is the basic core public data infrastructure (mapping, stats, etc.) required for every other service and open data project. This is the "too difficult" box that could hamper innovation beyond some college project apps.No argument about this - there is a lot still to do.Hacking is important &gt;&gt; Rands in ReposeMichael Lopp explains: he doesn't mean Anonymous-style hacking, but the coding-something sort of hacking a la Mark Zuckerberg:Hackers are allergic to process not because they don't understand the value; they're allergic to it because it violates their core values. These values are well documented in Zuckerberg's letter: "Done is better than perfect", "Code wins arguments", and that "Hacker culture is extremely open and meritocratic". The folks who create process care about control, and they use politics to shape that control and to influence communications, and if there is ever a sentence that would cause a hacker to stand up and throw his or her keyboard at the screen, it's the first half of this one.Demand for new iPad shakes up corporate market &gt;&gt; ChangewaveA recent ChangeWave Research survey of 1,604 business IT buyers shows the new iPad is already having a powerful impact on the corporate tablet market.    Going forward, better than one-in-five companies (22%) say they'll be purchasing tablets for their employees during 2nd Quarter 2012, and the percentage reporting they'll buy Apple iPads has jumped to the highest level of corporate iPad demand ever seen in a ChangeWave survey. A total of 84% of companies planning to buy tablets next quarter now say they'll purchase iPads - a 7-pt leap since the previous survey.The current (global) Google Trends chart for Google+ &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansThe current (global) Google Trends chart for 'Google Plus' - a clear indication of how it is sliding away into irrelevance.Or just slipping out of the media's eye. Not necessarily tied to actual use - the media overlooks such stuff rather easily.Fourth-quarter tablet shipments &gt;&gt; IDC Press ReleaseTablet sales exceeded IDC's expectations:Despite an impressive debut by Amazon, which shipped 4.7m Kindle Fires into the market, Apple continued to see strong growth in the quarter, shipping 15.4m units in 4Q11, up from 11.1m units in 3Q11. That represents a 54.7% worldwide market share (down from 61.5% in 3Q11). Amazon's shipment total put the company in second place with 16.8% of the worldwide market. Third-place Samsung grew its share from 5.5% in 3Q11 to 5.8% in 4Q11. Despite shipping more units, including its new Nook Tablet, Barnes &amp; Noble saw its worldwide market share slip to 3.5% (down from 4.5%). Pandigital rounded out the top five, grabbing 2.5% of the market, down from 2.9% the previous quarter.When the second-placed Google Android tablet is getting just 6%, and in total they have under 25% of the market, there's a problem. It's greater for Microsoft, with 0% - but it has a strategy there.Why I left Google &gt;&gt; MSDN BlogsJames Whittaker, who left Microsoft for Google, and then Google for Microsoft:It wasn't an easy decision to leave Google. During my time there I became fairly passionate about the company. I keynoted four Google Developer Day events, two Google Test Automation Conferences and was a prolific contributor to the Google testing blog. Recruiters often asked me to help sell high priority candidates on the company. No one had to ask me twice to promote Google and no one was more surprised than me when I could no longer do so. In fact, my last three months working for Google was a whirlwind of desperation, trying in vain to get my passion back. The Google I was passionate about was a technology company that empowered its employees to innovate. The Google I left was an advertising company with a single corporate-mandated focus.This post has been going viral. Note that it's on the MSDN blog, not Whittaker's own - a clever bit of PR by Microsoft.New iPad, Asus Transformer Prime, or Samsung Galaxy Note: Which Tablet To Buy? &gt;&gt;PCMag.comSascha Segan, at PCMag, wants a tablet for his six-year-old daughter and the rest of the family:Google's approach, which is to say that apps should be screen-size-independent and that it's okay to blow up phone apps to tablet size, is simply wrong. Developers need to take different design approaches on a 4-inch screen and on a 10-inch one. There is no shortcut, no way around this. The result is that you have a lot of apps on Android tablets--Twitter and Facebook are the most prominent--that function but look ugly and take lousy advantage of the real estate. They aren't grainy like iPhone apps blown up to 2x on an iPad, but they're awkward to use and full of blank space. We see this problem regularly in the PCMag Labs when we try to do Android tablet app stories. It's easy to create a list of 75 great iPad apps. Building a list of great Android tablet apps is harder. On our last attempt, our software team only found 12.Yahoo Patent Suit Makes Waves In Silicon Valley &gt;&gt; WSJ.com(May require subscription:)Yahoo's decision to sue Facebook for allegedly violating 10 of itspatents covering technologies like online advertising, privacy controls and messaging is widely linked to the determination of the company's new chief executive, Scott Thompson, to get a better return on its assets. Those assets include Yahoo's more than 1,000 U.S. patents, which reflect investments in research and development since the company was founded in 1994. Some industry executives, however, view Yahoo's suit as a sign of weakness and a break with the Internet industry's tradition of avoiding patent suits.The Yahoo lawsuit against Facebook turns out to be one of the most-hated that you've ever seen in Silicon Valley - by both Facebookers, ex-Yahoos and onlookers.My review of the new iPad Reviews. How Meta! &gt;&gt; GigaomRanked by order of length. Of course, he couldn't know aboutour review, which didn't launch until 7am, and weighs in around 3,230 words (pictures too!), thus making it third-largest.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
In answer to your first question: yes, there is a difference. In answer to your second: yes, you can actuallyseethe difference. It's subtle, and yet it's definitely there.I'm talking, of course, of the "Retina Display" on the new iPad (which is what Apple seems to be calling it – no marketing niceties such as "iPad 3" or "iPad HD"). With much fanfare, Tim Cook unveiled it last week and the world said "wow!" or "is that all?", depending on the viewer's disposition. Expectations had been cranked high (about touch displays – ahem), but after so many had wrongly forecast the coming of the retina display last year (overplaying Moore's Law), expectations were about right this time. But the incremental updates that Apple is making – having established this sector – don't satisfy those who would like more, all at once.So the key question is whether the new iPad is "wow!" or "huh".CONTENTSThe screen is the computerCameras? Why?Take some dictayshun, SiriInside: the processorStorageWhat's in the battery?4G, LTE, 3.5G, or soWhat's missingConclusionThe screen is the computerThe essential thing about a tablet – particularly a "slate" like the iPad – is that the screen is pretty much all there is. Sure, there's all the stuff around the back, such as the processor, the graphics processor, the storage, the battery and the wireless connectivity. But on its own, the screen is what you deal with. So if that's better, you should benefit.So, in specifications, the iPad 2 has 1024x768 pixels on a 4:3 9.7in screen, giving it 132 dots per inch (DPI). The new iPad has 2048x1536, giving it four times as many pixels (3.1m, Apple points out; more than the typical HD TV set) and a resolution of 264dpi, which when held at a distance of about 40cm (15in) means that the average eye can't discern adjacent pixels. With the old iPad, you could … perhaps. Actually, even last year at least one expert wassuggesting that the iPad 2 was "almost identical" to the iPhone 4'sretina display.In fact, the difference between the visible screen quality of the iPad 2 (still available, but at a reduced price) and the "new iPad" isn't immediately obvious. I tried putting the two side by side and looking at the icons: even for Apple's icons, which you would expect would have been optimised for the new super-ultra-hi-res screen, it was hard to tell that anything had changed. (I also enlisted an 11-year-old just to make sure it wasn't my eyes at fault. He didn't spot the difference immediately either.)But there is a difference. The clearest example comes from looking at two covers from the Newsstand app, where the difference between the covers of the Economist and New Yorker was clearly visible: on the iPad 2 the covers were pixellated, while on the new iPad they were sharper.Here's the iPad 2:Newsstand on the iPad 2: note pixellationAnd now the iPad 3:Newsstand on the iPad 3: note less pixellationThe screenshot shows the difference when you magnify it to the pixel level, first on the iPad 2:Detail of Newsstand cover on iPad 2And now the iPad 3:Detail of Newsstand cover on iPad 3That difference is small, but it's real. And while it's close enough to be almost subliminal, the extra tidiness of the letters – possibly better than you can get with physical print – and icons gives this experience a tidiness, a cleanliness that you rarely experience on electronic devices.It also exists at system-level facilities such as the keyboard, which gains extra sharpness – and the letters on the keys really do get an extra helping of precision. Again, it's not a dramatically obvious difference (and most computer screens can't show the difference natively), but when you bring up the keyboards on the two devices side-by-side there is a faint furriness to the iPad 2 that isn't there on the new one.This is the iPad 3 keyboard detail:Detail: Q and W on iPad 3 keyboardNotice how the anti-aliasing works around the circle of the Q; this is one of the hardest shapes to do well.And now the iPad 2:Detail: Q and W on iPad 2 keyboardAnd finally for comparison, because I had it to hand, the BlackBerry PlayBook (which is a 7in, 1024 x 600 pixel screen, with a resolution of 169 dpi) running the PlayBook 2.0 software. The PlayBook used to be ahead of the iPad 2 in dpi (169 v 132):Detail: BlackBerry Playbook keyboard detailYou can see that the keyboard's Q isn't as clean in the anti-aliasing.Update:@lollygaggingpoints out in the commentsthat the PlayBook by defaultseems to use about 60% compression on screenshots, so that picture above will include some artefacts from the lossy JPEG compression. The question of the Playbook screen remains moot - though its given DPI is lower than the iPad 3 (but still ahead of the iPad 2).So the screen is better: more detailed, especially down at the system level. Now the question is: does that difference make a enough of a difference for it to be worth your money to either upgrade or buy?Part of the problem in answering that is that although the retina display on the iPad has been expected for ages, there don't seem to be developers around who have taken advantage of it. That in turn means that it's only Apple's apps which have been updated to take advantage of the new high-definition display. So apps like Newsstand do show it – when it comes to covers. But on comparing the same article from the New Yorker under high magnification (a screenshot that is then enlarged), there's actually no difference, because the articles arePDFsgraphics, and don't have any extra resolution; the processor can't create resolution that isn't there. All it can do is faithfully fill in the places that are already filled.Update:corrected: those aren't PDFs, which would scale perfectly, but images, which don't scale.That is going to cause some problems for magazine publishers who ship their products asPDFsimages(I'm looking at you, Conde Nast), because they will either have to shipPDFsimageswith four times as many pixels – which means four times as many bits to ship, which in the case of the New Yorker would mean about 2.8GB per issue for benefits that most people won't either notice or benefit from initially – or they're going to have to start figuring out how to generate their output in formats such as SVG which will be as precise as the screen allows. Or, of course, they might just ignore it on the basis that thePDFsimageslook pretty good already. (I'm not sure this would be a good idea.)But for experiences such as games and other apps, the level of detail is going to offer developers thrilling chances. Apple showed off some games that are under development for the new iPad, which take full advantage of the pixel detail on offer; if you need to get the feeling that there really are rivers of molten lava flowing under the bridge on which you're standing, that's the place to see it.The downside? Those apps are going to get bigger. It's hard at present to foresee quite how much of a problem that's going to be: will app writers shift over to scalable vectors (it would be wise)? Will people just resort to Wi-Fi? I don't know, but with forecasts that apps could grow in size fivefold to accommodate that detailed screen.Of course other content will benefit too – particularly high-definition content. I watched the first episode of the BBC's series Orbit, which is available in standard definition (boo) or high definition (yay!), which is a 1.7GB download (gulp).Left is the iPad 3; right the iPad 2 – both showing a scene from the BBC programme Orbit (the HD version) with the screens of both on full brightnessAnd again, you can see the difference. The detail seems minor, but if the camera has captured it then the iPad 3 will show it. I compared Orbit on an iPad 3, iPad 2 and new 1080p Apple TV on an HD TV. (The nice thing being I only had to buy it once.) On the iPad 2, some of the fine detail was lost on an early shot around clifftops. On the HD TV, the colours were richer, I thought; but on the iPad 3, as much as anything because you're closer, you can pick out detail that simply isn't visible across a room on a TV.So what we might call That Screen definitely does make a difference. Expect that other companies will try to match it (there's no point exceeding it) in short order; by the end of the year it's likely that only Apple (with the iPad 2) and the low-end Android tablets will be offering non-retina displays. (And Apple will probably be making the better profit out of it.) In fact, as Benedict Evans of Enders Analysisput it recently in a tweetyou can read as ironic or factual, "a baby born today will never see a pixel".The rest of the iPad experience is much the same. Apple says that the screen now has enhanced colour reproduction; that's quite hard to discern, though again the comparison of the iPad 3 against the iPad 2 (in the picture, the newer is on the left) with both turned to maximum brightness shows that yes, the bright is brighter and the dark seems just as dark – so a greater brightness range.CamerasThe back camera gets an upgrade, to 5 megapixels, and the same assembly as the iPhone 4S. There's also HD video, which gets video stabilisation (through the processor; so only the new iPad gets it). What's the use, you ask, in having 5MP and HD video on a tablet? You don't take photos or video with them.But actually I suspect that, given this facility, people will start shooting video with iPads – especially now that Apple has iMovie for the iPad which offers all sorts of built-in functions. For taking a film, quickly cutting it together and uploading it, this could be – well, not ideal, but a lot better than trying to do it on a camera, and simpler than filming it and transferring it to a computer to cut it there (even if you'll do it better). Expect to see plenty more iPads reflected in mirrors and so on in YouTube, and the words "this is my first video, and …".And even if you don't have any use at all for a camera, even a 5MP one, or HD filming – you're effectively getting it for nothing.Voice dictationSiri hasn't come to the new iPad; instead, there's what you might call "Siri lite". That is, whenever the keyboard pops up, you also get the option of hitting the microphone button and dictating instead. Hands-free input! What could be better?I have to say that it's not great. To be honest, it's not even good. With Siri, there's the advantage that you tend to speak in short bursts, which makes the speech-to-text part of the process easier. With dictation, especially for long notes, you tend to talk in longer sentence-ish clauses, which the back end is much less good at handling. I tried it over a 3G connection, using a mic built into a pair of Skullcandy headphones. Here's what I said, and what it offered back:I said: "The new iPad has voice dictation which should mean that you can speak to input text directly."It offered:New iPad has voice dictation shipmen speak text input directory(It was 8am, so I wasn't slurring – or not more than usual.)I said: "However, in my tests I found that it wasn't very accurate."It offered:However in my tests I've found that it wasn't very accurate.(OK.)I said: "You have to use short sentences and speak very clearly."It offered:You have to use short sentences speak very clearly.(Note that it missed "and".)I said: "But even then it will miss occasional words such as 'the'."It offered:Even though it warmness occasional searches. (Huh?)I tried it on Wi-Fi, in a quieter environment. The results weren't much better. Short sentences it's good with – so "yeah that's great I'll see you later" came out perfectly three times in a row. But "I don't think you've ever seen one of those ever before" came out as"I don't did you see monomers and before". Conclusion: don't throw away the touch keypad. (Well, you can't.) Or the spare keyboard, if you have one. This barely counts as a feature at present until it gets much, much better. (Dragon Dictation is a free app and does much the same job using the same back-end technology.)Update:some people have asked me whether the Voice Dictation just isn't attuned to British accents. The answer: I don't know. Siri does OK, generally, with my voice.ProcessorAlthough Apple says that this device is using an A5X processor – which sounds like the iPhone 4S to the iPhone 4, compared to last year's A5 processor –benchmarkssuggest that there's no difference in the standard compute power (though the RAM is up to 1GB - that's half what you get on the lowest-spec MacBook Air; all the improvement is in the graphics processor. Those pixels won't shift themselves, you know.StorageNothing's changed here: it still comes in 16GB, 32GB and 64GB flavours. So much for the rumours about 128GB. The point to realise about Apple's strategy is that it's increasingly about the cloud: giving you devices on which you can store loads of content makes you less likely to put it on multiple devices. Also, if you buy something like a TV episode, then you can play it on any number of iPads, iPhones, Apple TVs and Apple Macs if they're all using the same account. This is actually pretty neat – and makes the storage point moot.Bill Gates said in 2005 that Blu-ray DVD would be the last physical format. He was right.BatteryThe new iPad has a 42.5 watt-hour capacity, compared to 25Wh for the iPad 2 (so 70% more). Some new technology? Apple wouldn't say, though clearly the fact that the device is barely any thicker suggests it has done something radical. But it's still claiming the same 10-hour life between charges, and my side-by-side tests suggest that this is true: even if you were to turn off the connectivity, you wouldn't magically get 17 hours' capacity. What seems likely is that those extra pixels, while smaller, are using up more energy overall; somewhere in the mix between four times more pixels in the same screen space, and 70% more power, you get equality. (If each new pixel uses 42% as much energy as each old one, then that would make sense.)For all this, the new iPad barely weighs any more. That's remarkable.Wireless connectivityWhen rumours surfaced that the iPad 3 would have LTE (long-term evolution) networking, there was surprise. LTE is thought of on phones as a battery killer, because it demands so many radio frequencies at once. This is where that upsized battery comes in. But the implication seems to be that much of that is upped in order to drive the pixels, rather than for LTE. Apple says that using LTE will only reduce the battery life by one hour, from ten hours to nine.I didn't get any chance to test the 4G/LTE connectivity, and it's unlikely anyone in Europe will be able to. The US, for which the 4G iPad is designed, uses 700MHz spectrum for LTE; but in the UK we're on 800MHz, and other countries have similar incompatibilities. Equally, we're not really expecting 4G/LTE to be widespread until late 2013 at least, which is at least one more generation of iPads away. That gives Apple the chance to introduce a "European" 4G iPad, if it thinks it's worth it. But for the most part, European buyers – unless they're going to travel to the US – should expect that the LTE circuits will stay dark.However there isHSPA(high speed packet access) andDC-HSPA(dual-cell HSPA) connectivity, which some networks in the UK are rolling out. Those offer faster connections than 3G – and faster than the average fixed broadband too – so Orange/T-Mobile is happy to describe it as "3.5G". It'll do. The key thing is that it's faster, and it isn't going to put a dent in your battery life. And 3G will work. So again, it's a feature you'll get little use out of – but as the price is the same as a year ago, you're getting the screen for free.What's missing?There still isn't an SD slot, or a USB connection, or direct HDMI out. Nor is there the ability to play .AVI or Flash files, and the iPad won't pick up files on a network (such as a network attached storage drive running the DLNA protocol, which gives you plug-and-play on desktop computers and lots of home devices). You can't install alternative virtual keyboards (such as Swype, offered on devices such as the Motorola Xoom). You can't browse the file system as you can on, say, an Android tablet. You can't add extra storage via an SD slot.If the iPad were a desktop computer, those absences would be a terrible loss, and it would be a flop. But rather as the iPod survived not having an FM tuner (something other manufacturers insisted for years wasessentialto an MP3 player) or Wi-Fi, the iPad doesn't have those things because they're not seen – by Apple, and buyers – as core to its function. Sometimes they're inconvenient (you can pick from the list which is the most egregious loss) but none actually prevents you doing stuff with the device. If you need to load SD content, there's a camera adaptor. If you want HDMI out, there's an adaptor for that – but also AirPlay for video.The key thing that Apple has latched onto is that those things aren't necessary for the essential experience of a tablet. It's generally self-contained, rather like the iPod before it: you load it up and you go. The extras that you now get in the cloud (such as films and music) are great, and extend the iPad hugely – but the hardware extension isn't, in the end, what it's about. The experience is what it's about.ConclusionThe iPad has had a really strong content ecosystem since its start. It's remarkable to think that two years ago we were still adjusting to the idea of this device, with plenty of people saying "it's just a big iPhone". Since then, the iPad has burrowed into western consciousness, Microsoft has veered off its normal Intel-hugging course to embrace the ARM architecture for Windows, and even while Windows 8's development predates the iPad, the direction that Microsoft is taking with its tablet offerings indicates that the two companies that defined desktop computing agree really closely about tablet computing too. Not in every detail – Microsoft is trying to make Windows 8 cover more bases – but in the essence.The iPad 3 puts Apple a mile ahead of anything we've seen from Android tablets. The interface is unchanged. But all sorts of incremental details – especially the screen, but also the camera capability and so the graphics heft, and the mobile broadband capability – have been ratcheted up. It's hard to see anyone catching this product because it offers what people want: access to computing wherever you are. Not every sort of computing, and there are still rough edges (notably the dictation) and incompatibilities (LTE). But for function and form, nothing else gets close.Of course, if you don't think you'll be able to tell the difference in the screen, and if you think LTE is not going to happen in time, good news: the iPad 2 is now cheaper than before. Win-win.
Thursday, almost the end of the week already. What are you up to?
Virgin Media has been awarded the contract to provide Wi-Fi access on London Underground platforms, with mobile internet services set to be available in time for the London Olympics.The service will initially be rolled out to 80 stations by July, and 120 by the end of the year, following a competitive tender run by Transport for London.The Wi-Fi connections will only work at station platforms, though – not while trains are travelling through the tunnels."Millions of passengers will now be able to connect to their work, friends or access the latest news and travel information whilst on the move," said London mayor Boris Johnson."This is a fabulous new and free resource which will be in place from this summer when London is being showcased on a global stage and playing host to millions."The service, which will give access to mobile internet via a TfL portal offering travel, news and entertainment bulletins, will remain free for Virgin Media customers after the Olympic Games.Other users will only be able to access a limited amount of free content on the TfL portal, with full mobile internet services offered on a pay-as-you-go basis.Virgin Media is building the Wi-Fi network from a total capital expenditure budget of about £640m for 2012, set at between 15% and 17% of the cable company's £4bn in revenues."With the eyes of the world on London this summer, we'll be showing off our capital as a leading connected city on the global stage," said Neil Berkett, chief executive of Virgin Media.
My friend and former boss Joe McNally, who has died of cancer aged 69, launched Compaq into the UK personal computer market in 1984, shortly after the company was founded in the US. He did so on his own, apart from a secretary, with initial funds of $40,000 and a rented office in Piccadilly, delivering the first machines by taxi. Working frequently from gut instinct, and with a laser focus on "the number" (the current month's revenue), he built an eclectic team, frequently hiring young staff and delegating an unusual level of responsibility.The company's growth was amazing. In the mid-1980s, IBM's PC division was 400 times our size. By the mid-1990s we had overtaken them. Joe's choice of John Cleese to front someinnovative and cheeky advertisingwas a notable success. When Joe retired in 2001 as chairman of Compaq – which had by then combined with Digital Equipment and Hewlett-Packard – the total UK revenues from sales and manufacturing amounted to $6bn, with a headcount of 6,000.As financial director, I watched Joe at close quarters for 15 years. Frequently gruff (partly for show), and routinely scheduling meetings at 7.30am, he earned respect and loyalty – which he reciprocated.Born and raised on Tyneside, Joe attended Gateshead grammar school and gained his business acumen the hard way. He was sacked (twice) from the steel stockholders Miles Druce by his own father, the managing director, before he found his feet over nine years as a computer programmer and salesman with ICL and Honeywell.He then joined the meat processors FMC Harris as director of their southern operations, broadening his general management experience and becoming chief executive designate, before a hostile takeover saw him again out of a job.Joe was very interested in opening up opportunities for youth employment and for more than 20 years was closely involved with the Duke of Edinburgh's award scheme, latterly as trustee. For this he was made a CVO in 2011.He is survived by his wife, Anne, whom he married in 1968, and their children, Kirsten and Joseph Daniel, and two grandsons, Millen and Joseph Jack.
The games industry was a very different place 10 years ago. Still dominated by Japanese games and Japanese games machines, Microsoft's plans to launch its own dedicated console were met with skepticism.A few years before, EA co-founder Trip Hawkins had tried to wrestle his way onto the games hardware scene with the 3DO – an abject failure against the might of Sony's PlayStation. Many thought the Xbox would go the same way.It didn't. Instead, it changed the industry, bringing broadband connectivity and hard disk storage to consoles for the first time and introducing us to important new franchises such as Halo and Project Gotham.Not bad for a project that originally started out with a two-man team (Microsoft engineers Otto Berkes and Ted Hase) as something of a hobbyist attempt to create a Windows games machine.Games journalist andvg247.comfounderPat Garratthas releasedan extensive history of the Xbox on Kindle. Here we discuss the history of the machine and its lasting legacy on the industry …Keith Stuart: What was the reaction to the Xbox announcement back in the early 2000s? Microsoft hadn't been hugely involved with consoles before that point – apart from providing a modified version of the Windows CE operating system for Sega's Dreamcast. I remember journalists being rather cynical.Pat Garratt:I think there was a general air of disbelief around the time of the announcement. PlayStation owned the core market and Nintendo was at the height of the Game Boy craze with Pokemon. We thought Microsoft's intentions were ridiculous.Bill Gates appeared on stage in person to announce Xbox at the Game Developers Conference in San Jose in 2000, and still no one could believe it would ever work. Microsoft was a PC company and didn't understand the console world, which was Japanese. The whole thing was blatantly engineered to build a bridge from the PC games business to the living room, and we all thought it was doomed.There was a lot wrong with it, but the fact Microsoft was able to make a gamble of that size in the face of so much opposition from the press, the development community and even gamers themselves shows just how badly the console market needed shaking up. We didn't believe there was a gap, and we didn't bank on Microsoft's tenacity.I think there were maybe two important things about the launch. One was the built-in hard-drive, which clearly took the games console into the era of downloadable, digital entertainment. The other was Halo.The hard drive was a major step for consoles. Microsoft used it as a method of differentiation, as PlayStation 2 had no hard storage. The origin of the hard drive on the original Xbox is interesting. It became a PR tool, in that Microsoft said it was important for playing online games – and yes, it allowed people to play digital music and all the rest – but it was only ever included in the first instance because Windows needed it to boot. The hard drive was just a technical thing, but the consequences were dramatic.The drive meant shooters like Halo were playable like PC games, with no load times between areas. It was also possible for Halo to be a proper networked shooter, as data could be read quickly from the HD. Online games were only really possible on PC before that. PS2 couldn't really do any of it because it didn't have dedicated storage.Yeah, I mean, there were a few PS2 Net Link games, but they were difficult to set up.Whereas Xbox was built from the ground up to enable proper multiplayer. Halo was revolutionary, really. It's funny to look back at the reaction to Halo. Before it came out, the press couldn't fathom a first-person console game with a green and grey colour pallete; everyone was used to anime-styled, neon-coloured Japanese games. When Halo launched alongside Xbox, UK magazine Edge reviewed it at 10/10 and suddenly everyone loved it. It was a turning point for console gaming as a whole.Apart from the hardware and software itself, I think the really important thing about Xbox was that it was made by Microsoft, an American company. I saw Gates unveil Xbox at GDC, and the crowd was in rapture. It was as though Bill Gates, the all-American tech hero, had come to save the US games trade.Halo's protagonist, Master Chief, connected deeply with the American psyche at that point. Superman's resonance with the US market has been compared to Master Chief's. America was facing the start of its "war on terror" and had just been through 9/11, while Superman became popular in the US after [the second world war]. I think young Americans needed a hero, a fantasy in which everything works out against all odds. Master Chief was in the right place at the wrong time.I think the fact Xbox was American was a big factor in its ability to get a foothold in one of the main world games markets.It's interesting to look back, though, and realise that it was far from a perfect launch. The game line-up was pretty poor – only Halo and Project Gotham really stood out. And Halo had no online multiplayer mode – it had to be set up via a LAN connection to allow 16 players to take part, with four machines running four-player splitscreen – a pretty obtuse set-up. When you were researching your history of the Xbox, did you find out why the machine didn't launch with Xbox Live? If online connectivity was part of the vision form the start, which Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer would have us believe, why didn't Xbox Live turn up until later in 2012?It's important to remember that general broadband availability was in its infancy in 2002. There were only 700,000 households in the US with broadband in 2000, and predictions at the time of launch were that there would be 12.6m by 2006. There was no such thing as mass penetration; we were all using dial-up at home.Xbox, in many ways, was a console ahead of its time, and banking exclusively on broadband was probably the greatest risk Microsoft took with the machine. Sega's Dreamcast came out in the west in 1999, but shipped with a dial-up modem as broadband was seen as a future technology. Microsoft refused to use anything other than broadband for Xbox, though, as the vision for Live was a system that allowed downloadable patches, new maps and other pieces of content, voice communication and lag-free action gaming in intense real-time genres such as first-person shooting. Gates was a hugely believer in the internet – Microsoft still is, obviously – and Xbox essentially shipped with an online component that very few people could actually use as a result.I didn't specifically ask why Live launched after the console itself, but I'm going to assume it wasn't ready. The entire Xbox development period was a horrific crunch for Microsoft, and I'd guess someone just took the call to move Live into "phase two" as broadband penetration wasn't extensive.Halo was originally intended to be a PC and Mac title, with large teams of players on each side, but Microsoft bought Bungie specifically for the game in the run-in to Xbox's launch. The first Halo as it appeared on Xbox was never designed for online play as Live didn't even exist. I think the simple answer would be that Gates and Ballmer were totally commited to broadband gaming with Xbox, and that was the reason Halo launched without full online play.Microsoft released a 10-year anniversary edition of Halo towards the end of 2011 that featured online competitive play and online co-op for the first time, which was a big deal. Halo was the first shooter I ever played cooperatively, and I know for many fans it was a real dream to be able to play it online with friends using voice comms. The original game was only playable via LAN or split-screen, as you say.What do you think were the other key games for the console though? I guess it was Project Gotham, Splinter Cell, Knights of the Old Republic. But did any third-party publishers really exploit the hardware fully? The 233 MHz NVidia GPU and&nbsp;Intel Pentium III&nbsp;CPU were technically in advance of the PS2, but it just felt a lot of the time that publishers were doing as little as they could in the conversion process.I think a lot of developers and publishers aimed for the lower PS2 specs when they developed cross-platform titles. Xbox didn't really get going as a truly competitive entity until Xbox 360, I'd argue.That doesn't mean people didn't produce good content for Xbox, though. Splinter Cell's a great example of how a publisher was able to create something technically exceptional by focusing on the increased Xbox specs. I remember seeing it for the first time at E3 with a colleague who was big on PC games, and the sight of Sam Fisher crawling down a vent with a rotating fan causing real-time shadows on his back was enough to make him buy an Xbox. PS2 couldn't handle anything like it.But yes, I'm sure companies were putting games onto Xbox as an afterthought to PS2. I worked on an Xbox magazine at the time, and sometimes it was tough to fill the pages. There just weren't that many games compared to PS2. To my mind, though, the third-party games that made a mark through exploiting the extra grunt were BioWare's Knights of the Old Republic; Tecmo's Ninja Gaiden and Dead or Alive 3; Ubisoft's Splinter Cell; Starbreeze's The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay; and Namco's Soul Calibur 2, which was, amazingly, at 720p. I'm sure there were more, but those are the ones that spring to mind and using Xbox's technical specs to good effect.Being on an Xbox mag, do you feel the console really had an identity through its games at that time? A few years before, I was on a Dreamcast mag, and its big games – Sonic, Jet Set Radio, Chu Chu Rocket – were unmistakably Sega. I think in its early days, Xbox suffered from the same problem as the 3DO – it lacked those first-party and second-party relationships that Sega, Nintendo and Sony all achieved. In the end, does Xbox have a legacy of its own, apart from Xbox 360?I think it struggled, especially with third-party content, but it certainly does have a legacy and it did have a distinct feel at the time. Xbox was for grown ups, for early adopters willing to pay for the best visuals and hardware. Halo and Project Gotham Racing are indicative of Xbox's essence. The first-party content really made it.There was also a large mod scene around the hardware itself, which never really appeared around PS2. Dreamcast had it to an extent, but because of Xbox's hard drive and relatively open systems it could be converted with new user-made dashboards to create a powerful media centre, and it had loads of emulators. You could play Mario Kart on an Xbox if you knew how. Xbox felt quite underground to us when we worked on the magazine. We ran articles about BIOS flashing and other community modding topics you didn't really find on the Japanese machines.Even in the early days, there was a lot of power in the brand. We paid for one guy to get an Xbox tattoo in one issue; he had the logo put on his arm. He was a fully paid up member of the multiplayer community, and just lived for it. Xbox's legacy was all about bringing console community to the west, I think. There were some key games, but I definitely look on those years with rose-tinted specs thanks to the sheer daftness of it all.• Microsoft has released its owntimeline of Xbox history
Google wants British businesses to put more thought into their mobile web strategies, and has launched a UK scheme called GetMo to encourage them.TheGetMo websiteoffers a tool for companies to see how their current website looks on a mobile phone, while providing tips on how to build a more effective mobile site, and information on mobile consumer trends.The scheme is a UK extension of the GoMo initiative that Google launched in the US in November 2011. It also follows theGoogle Sites Mobile Landing Pages(Google Mobilize for short) scheme from June 2011, which provided small and medium-sized British businesses with templates for their mobile landing pages."As the smartphone explosion continues, more consumers are looking to engage with brands by searching for them on their mobile phone. Yet the majority of businesses don't have mobile sites or a mobile strategy for connecting with them," says Google's director of mobile advertising for Europe Ian Carrington."Businesses need to get mobile in order to provide a positive user experience for their customers. At the moment, business are not keeping up with consumers."Google cites stats from Ipsos CT showing that 93% of smartphone owners in the UK use their handsets to access the web every day, with 84% looking for local information.GetMo includes a guide to "10 Mobile Site Best Practices" (PDF link), which advises businesses to ensure their mobile sites load quickly, have simplified navigation, are "thumb-friendly", offer local information, use mobile site redirects, synchronise features like shopping baskets with the parent website, are designed for visibility, and are accessible.On the latter point, here's Google's advice: "Ideally, your mobile site should work across all mobile devices and all handset orientations. Find alternatives to Flash – it does not work on some devices. Use HTML5 for interactivity and animation."This is a lesson still being learned by many different kinds of businesses. For example, music:Research in March 2011by ShareSquare found that of the 1,700+ bands playing at the SXSW festival, nine out of 10 didn't detect or recognise mobile browsers, while a third used Flash.Google is also advising businesses to "listen, learn and iterate" by using analytics to understand how people are using their sites, while collecting user feedback through other means like user testing sessions before and after launch.One of Google's partners in GetMo is mobile commerce firm The MoBank Group, which works with businesses to add shopping features on their mobile sites."Statistics show that over 15% of all online traffic is now coming from mobile, therefore retailers that use websites which don't adequately support mobile transactions are losing the equivalent to one day of business per week," says its chief executive Dominic Keen.Otherpartners for GetMoinclude Boost Communications, Incentivated, InfoGin, Lumata, Madmaker, Mediacom, Movement, Imano, Psycle Interactive, Pure Agency, Sayu, Somo, Sponge, Wapple and dotMobi.
You've heard about the Windows 8 Consumer Preview, and you've read the early reviews which say, for example, that while it'sgreat on a touchscreen (such as a tablet), it'sjarring on the desktop.But those all came from people who were techies. They're not really representative of the broad user base out there – the hundreds of millions of people who use Windows every day, and have become familiar with concepts such as the Recycle Bin and Start menu ever since Microsoft made them iconic with Windows 95, which was the rock star version of Windows (launched, lest we forget, with the Rolling Stones' classic Start Me Up to help people tie the idea together.)Just as a reminder, here's that Start Me Up advert from 1995 (orwatch it on YouTube:(Thinks: what agreatad. Works just as well now.)And now here's Chris Pirillo's father trying Windows 8 Consumer Preview. Pirillo essentially leaves him to his own devices (literally) and challenges him to find his way around. (There's also an IM stream in the background of people who are watching what's going on. You can alsowatch it on YouTube.)One hopes that they're watching this in Redmond, and are making suitable adjustments.There's more over at theFixing Windows 8 blog(motto: "Touchscreen + Windows 8: Great! Keyboard/mouse + Windows 8: Hate!").(Updated to add links for mobile viewers.)
A selection of 14 new apps for you today:Daniel Johnston's Space DucksUS artist Daniel Johnston has a devoted cult following, and not just for his music. Johnston's illustration prowess is well known, and forms the basis for this new comic-book iPad app based on his new album. "Play your way through the story, watching animated films and unlocking Daniel's newest album along the way."iPadFlud NewsiOS news aggregation app Flud has been ported to Android, offering "a new kind of social news reader". That means connecting it to Facebook and Twitter, then customising a feed of news based on your preferences, while following other "Fluders" who share your interests.AndroidMass Effect 3 DatapadThe latest companion app for a console game comes from EA, and works with Mass Effect 3. It offers news, a database of characters, messages from people you've met in the game, and a Fleet Commander feature to "influence the Readiness Rating of your troops directly from your iOS device".iPhone / iPadMet Opera on DemandNew York's Metropolitan Opera has a brand new iPad app providing on-demand video and audio streams of some of its most famous concerts. It requires an existing subscription to the online service.iPadSuper Monkey Ball 2: Sakura EditionSega has taken its latest Super Monkey Ball game to Android, offering 125 mazes and six worlds to roll around, plus mini games Monkey Target, Monkey Golf, Monkey Bowl and Monkey Base.AndroidPlanes - Byron BartonOceanhouse Media's latest book-app is all about airplanes, and aimed at young children who want to tap and play with seaplanes, passengers and clouds while reading a story.iPhone / iPadSamurai vs Zombies DefenseThe latest freemium game from US publisher Glu Mobile has debuted on Android, putting you in the (silent) shoes of a Samurai, defending your village against waves of zombies. It looks much more of an action title than the Plants Vs. Zombies clone that the description would suggest, though.AndroidGerbil PhysicsIf you thought birds slamming into pigs was silly, how about gerbils? The latest Xbox Live game for Windows Phone is Gerbil Physics, published by Microsoft Studios. Based on an Xbox 360 Indie game, it sees you exploding blocks to free the rodent heroes from a nefarious Toad King.Windows PhoneShoptownShoptown is an intriguing iOS game that sees you running shops in a virtual town, with the twist being that it uses GPS to populate the town with stores from your actual town.iPhone / iPadPrimeTubePrimeTube is the latest unofficial YouTube app for Windows Phone, and this one has been fully jazzed up for Microsoft's Metro user interface. The free app offers search, commenting, and the ability to pin videos, playlists and creators to the homescreen.Windows PhoneSkirt AlertI covered this when it launched in the US, but now Skirt Alert is available worldwide. The idea: weather alerts including sun and wind info, to help women judge whether to wear a skirt that day or not. It includes push notifications.iPhoneFriskies You vs. CatCat-food brand Friskies hasn't released its latest app in the UK yet, so it's US-only for now. The idea: a game that gets a human to fling virtual pieces around the screen, while their cat tries to catch them. And that's a real cat, playing with the iPad. Justpossiblylaunched for PR purposes.iPadNew Star SoccerNew Star Soccer is a football simulation with a focus on RPG-like elements, as you guide a footballer from aspiring pro to global superstar. Already popular on PC, it's now made the leap to mobile. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadTower Solitaire vs FriendsUK publisher Neon Play has launched a freemium take on Tower Solitaire, which gets people playing cards against their Facebook friends. In-app purchases buy virtual coins to spend on power-ups.iPhone / iPad
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle confirms it's working on Chrome for Windows 8 &gt;&gt; MashableA Google spokesperson told Mashable that the new version of Chrome would be based on the desktop browser (as opposed to the Android version). "Our goal is to be able to offer our users a speedy, simple, secure Chrome experience across all platforms, which includes both the desktop and Metro versions of Windows 8," the rep said. "To that end we're in the process of building a Metro version of Chrome along with improving desktop Chrome in Windows 8 such as adding enhanced touch support."Not offering Chrome for Windows 8 would basically be leaving money on the table on Google's part.Geotagging poses security risks &gt;&gt; The United States Army[Steve] Warren cited a real-world example from 2007. When a new fleet of helicopters arrived with an aviation unit at a base in Iraq, some Soldiers took pictures on the flightline, he said. From the photos that were uploaded to the Internet, the enemy was able to determine the exact location of the helicopters inside the compound and conduct a mortar attack, destroying four of the AH-64 Apaches.Ow.So Sirious: iPhone user sues Apple over voice-activated assistant &gt;&gt; WSJ Law BlogAccording to the lawsuit filed Monday in federal court in California: [I]n many of Apple's television advertisements, individuals are shown using Siri to make appointments, find restaurants, and even learn the guitar chords to classic rock songs or how to tie a tie. In the commercials, all of these tasks are done with ease with the assistance of the iPhone 4S's Siri feature, a represented functionality contrary to the actual operating results and performance of Siri.The Law Blog asked Siri whether her makers exaggerated her worth. And she has an answer.Will 4G LTE devices ever roam internationally? &gt;&gt; CNET News"What's happening in terms of the number of radio technologies that can be added to a chip is not classic Moore's Law, but it's similar" said Dan Warren, senior technology director for the GSM Association. "There has been a lot of change in the past 9 to 12 months. And we're seeing chipsets go from single and dual frequency to four and five frequencies." Today's so-called "world" phones already need to operate in about six bands to get access to 2G and 3G networks around the world. To include LTE roaming, wireless devices will need another six or seven frequency bands, Warren estimates. This means that the next generation of truly mobile "world" devices will need at least 12 frequency bands.Looks like roaming will be HSPA roaming - or just 3G roaming.Exclusive: Amazon Has Sold Over Two Million Kindle Singles &gt;&gt; paidContentAmazon says that in the 14 months the program has been running, it has sold over two million Kindle Singles. Seventy percent of each sale goes to the author or publisher, and Amazon keeps 30%. Amazon wouldn't disclose its total revenues from those two million singles, but the minimum price of a Single is $0.99 and most are $1.99 (the author or publisher sets the price). So with an average price of $1.87 multiplied by two million, a rough estimate of Amazon's 30-percent cut is $1.12m.The novella - or short story - is back?HP attempts to take on Amazon's cloud service &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comZorawar "Biri" Singh, senior vice president and general manager of H.P.'s cloud services... did not say how much the computing services would cost, but said "we are not coming at this at '8 cents a virtual computing hour, going to 5 cents.'" Amazon recently cut its prices, and its lowest cost computing is 2 cents per hour, though with extra features it can cost more. While Amazon tends largely to have a self-service model, Hewlett-Packard's cloud will also offer more personalized sales and service, Mr. Singh said. H.P. also plans to offer a number of tools for developers to use popular online software languages, like Ruby, Java, and PHP, as well as ways for customers to provision and manage their workloads remotely. The service will also include an online store where people can offer or rent software for use in the Hewlett-Packard public cloud.Hard to see quite who HP is going for, though. If they don't go with Amazon, wouldn't those customers go with Microsoft?Pricing updates (good news!) from Element 14/Premier Farnell and RS Components &gt;&gt; Raspberry PiBasically, now going to cost a total of £31.86 to get it in your totally non-sweaty hands. (Inc postage and VAT.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.(Corrected headline: it's Chrome for Windows 8 Metro, not necessarily the ARM version. Thanks @pezzonovante1 for pointing that out.)
A US antitrust investigation into Google has subpoenaed Apple to find out more information about the deal by which the search giant provides services for the iPhone and iPad, according to Bloomberg, citing sources inside the Federal Trade Commission which is carrying out the probe.The FTC began investigating Google's position in the US search market last year to determine whether it unfairly increases advertising rates for competitors, and whether its search results are skewed to favour its own businesses – such as its burgeoning social network Google+.US authorities have now demanded that Apple hand over the agreements by which Google is the default search and mapping engine on its mobile devices. According to Bloomberg other mobile handset makers as well as mobile networks have also been subpoenaed.Rivals to Google, such as Microsoft, have called the agreements anticompetitive. Together, Apple's devices and mobile phones running the Android mobile operating system give Google about 75% market share of the mobile market in the US at present, more than it has in the desktop realm where its share there is 66.4%, according to ComScore. In Europe, where the European Commission is also carrying out an antitrust investigation into the company, Google's desktop share is closer to 90%. It is not known whether the EC is also probing Google's deal with Apple, though a decision on its investigation is expected next month.Details of the Apple-Google relationship may show whether the latter is abusing its dominance of search to boost revenue in the mobile phone advertising market, Allen Grunes, an antitrust lawyer at Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck in Washington, told Bloomberg. "As mobile search gets more widespread, the default setting becomes more significant," said Grunes, who does not represent Google or its rivals.Google has been the default search engine on Apple's mobile devices since the iPhone was unveiled in 2007, though Apple is believed to have pursued talks with Microsoft in 2010 to use its Bing search engine instead. However, Google wound up with the continuing contract; Apple and Google are understood to share ad revenue from Google searches on iPhones, iPod Touches and iPads.The FTC's probe of Google is also understood to be investigating whether the company is using its control of Android to harm competition. That's because "it's very likely in the next few years, we'll see mobile search outstripping desktop search," Ben Schachter, a New York-based analyst with Macquarie Capital told Bloomberg. He estimates that by the end of 2012 mobile searches in the US will make about 25% to 30% of all searches, up from 15% now, and that people will use whatever is the default on the device, even though it can be changed in the settings."Most people don't even know what default search means – they just know there's a box they can use to look for information," Schacter said.Apple and Google have declined to comment on the subpoenas.Google in 2011 earned $1.3bn in search-related revenue on Apple products, according to a report released on 8 March report by Macquarie Capital, which said that the revenues were then split to give Apple $1bn and Google just $335m.In January, eMarketer, a New York-based research firm, estimated Google's share of US mobile advertising revenue was 52% in 2011, driven by searches. Google earns about 95% of all US mobile-search ad revenue, the firm said.The FTC's subpoena is the latest twist in the relationship between Google and Apple. The two companies were linked for much of last decade, with Google Chairman Eric Schmidt serving on Apple's board of directors. But that changed when in 2008 Google announced it would introduce Android to compete against the iPhone.Schmidt left the board in 2009, the same year the FTC said it was examining whether Apple and Google were violating antitrust laws by sharing board members. Schmidt, then Google's chief executive, said the FTC probe did not prompt his decision to step down from Apple's board.Conflict between the two companies intensified in 2010 after Apple's late co-founder Steve Jobs opened a patent battle against companies whose mobile devices run on Android, including Samsung and HTC.Joaquin Almunia, the European Commission's antitrust chief, said on 5 March that he will decide next month on the future of the EC's 18-month antitrust probe into Google and notify the company about any concerns.
So, finally, it's on. US District judge William Alsup has scheduled a trial between Oracle and Google Inc for 16 April and expects it to last about eight weeks. At issue: claims that Google violated Oracle's intellectual property rights relating to the Java programming language.The trial is set to take place in a San Francisco federal court. It has been a long road to get to trial: Oracle first sued Google in 2010, alleging that the Android mobile operating technology infringes Oracle's Java patents. But almost all of the patents that Oracle first asserted against Google have either been withdrawn or knocked down following re-examination by the US Patent Office at the behest of Google, and Alsup pressed Oracle in the past few weeks either to abandon the patents element altogether or to focus on just one.Oracle, in response, has been trying to get the trial to go ahead without the patent element, but leaving the way open to have a fresh trial over the patents in future - a suggestion Alsup has resisted strongly. But Alsup seems to have relented: in the trial order there are now two patents remaining in the lawsuit, out of five that Oracle initially asserted.But the patent elements aren't the only ones at issue. Oracle has also brought copyright infringement claims against Google, and those are expected to be the key part of the upcoming trial.Oracle acquired the Java programming language through its purchase of Sun Microsystems in 2010. It is claiming substantial damages - though the amount is subject to argument. But if successful over both the patent element and the the copyright claims, Oracle's damages could still run into the hundreds of millions of dollars, but probably not the billions that it was once demanding from Google.However Florian Müller, an independent patents blogger,saysthat Oracle's objective is not simply financial; instead, he says, "its priority is to win an injunction against Android in order to 'bring Android back into the Java fold'… if Oracle wins an injunction based on copyrighted API-related material, it's possible that Google will indeed have to accede to Oracle's demand to adhere to the official Java standard (or that Google will have to pay a much higher price in order for Oracle to condone continued fragmentation of Java)."According to the Groklaw blog, whichhas copies of the trial briefs of the copyright element of the case, Oracle contends that Google has copied and "created derivative works" of 37 Java API design specifications, along with the implementations of those specifications - where Oracle says Google may have originated the source code, but that that code is a "derivative work" of the specifications, and that copying 11 Java software code files. On the specifications, Oracle contends that Google copied them almost verbatim in creating the corresponding Android API specifications.The case in U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, is Oracle America, Inc v. Google Inc, 10-3561.
Good morning, it's time for some mid-week game chatter!
An "open data" revolution kicked off by a Guardian campaign is gathering pace in the UK. The Cabinet Office minister, Francis Maude, is trumpeting the UK's success in making government data freely available - and pointing to examples of companies that have sprung up to create commercial businesses around free data from public bodies.Maude says that "companies including SMEs [small and medium-sized enterprises] and startups are using open data to improve public services and create innovative products." But, he adds, he wants both "data holders" in government and new data-driven businesses to "promote the open data revolution".The Cabinet Office cited a number of startup businesses which use government-supplied free data as their core input, fromParkopedia- which uses live data from local authorities to help drivers find free care parking spaces, and now covers more than 20m space in 25 countries - toPlacr, which pulls together data from public transport operators to provide a nexus of data which is then available to users, developers and service operators themselves. Other companies cited includeCycleStreetsand theBarclays Bike Hire schemein London, which offers real-time data to developers who have in turn created a dozen apps for smartphones to help people find the nearest and best-stocked bicycle hire station to them.One of the newest apps to appear using government data is an iPhone all calledYour Taxi Meter, which uses live data from local councils to find out from a car's registration number whether it is a licensed taxi - so that would-be passengers can check on it before they get in. It also gives taxi fare estimates for more than 360 districts across the UK, using fares set by local government. "Without the data provided by the local councils for free, the service would not be possible," says Tom Macmichael, its creator.The explosion in open data in government followed the success of theFree Our Data campaign, launched in the Guardian in March 2006. That advocated making non-personal data collected by government available for uncharged re-use, whether by individuals or businesses - and was adopted by Tom Watson, then Cabinet Office minister in Gordon Brown's administration. That led to akey move in April 2010 when Ordnance Survey map data, which had previously been charged for, was made available for free- along with a database of postcodes and their geographic locations.In a speech on Wednesday, Maude will praise the efforts of both government and developers. He will say that "The digital age has made transparency an irresistible, unstoppable force," and that open data "will be the essential characteristic of future public policy". He points out that data about cardiac surgery led to the discovery of huge variations in mortality data across the UK, and thus to the elimination of bad practices. "It can save lives," he says of the open data movement.The availability of open data from government - in effect making data collected with taxpayer funds available back to them - has led to commercial businesses which are just getting off the ground. Jonathan Raper, the chief executive of Placr, was on Tuesday visiting Blackpool where he hopes to seal a contract offering his company's services - which are built around public data - that will cement its position.Placr already employs three staff, and the tax bill was probably enough in 2011 to pay for a teaching assistant at a school, says Raper: "so we feel we've begun to do our part."But Raper said that there is still huge amounts of work to do inside government, where willingness to making data open is still variable from ministry to ministry. "I'd give the government six out of ten so far - the have tried hard. But now they've reached a checkpoint. Reforming government isn't easy, but at the same time this is the time, economically, when we desperately need growth. When we have data lying around inside government that we could reuse for free, at no cost, then why does that task get put into the 'too difficult' box?"He said that investors in private companies using public data still needed persuading that the government would give them both the continued backing and guaranteed access in future to open data - something that Maude has repeated, but which is yet to be enacted through legislation.
The grandmaster of origami, Akira Yoshizawa, has had his paper folding skills celebrated as a Google doodle to mark the 101st anniversary of his birth.Japanese-born Yoshizawa is credited with turning origami from a children's pastime into a serious art form and was known for his innovative folding techniques.His achievements have been recognised in theGoogle logowith each letter being turned into a paper folding design to mimic the famous traditional art form.Yoshizawa was born in 1911 to dairy farming parents but moved to Tokyo when he was just 13 where he started working in a tool factory.In his early 20s, he was promoted to a technical draftsman and used origami, a skill he had acquired as a child, as a tool to teach younger employees basic geometry.Yoshizawa left the factory in the mid-1930s to pursue his passion for art and, for more than two decades, lived in poverty selling preserved fish door-to-door. But in 1951, a Japanese magazine commissioned him to fold the 12 signs of the Japanese zodiac to illustrate its next issue which catapulted him on to the international stage.His work has since been exhibited around the world and he has published more than a dozen books on the art form.Yoshizawa died from complications caused by pneumonia at a hospital in his home town of Ogikubo, Tokyo, in March 2005.• This article was amended on 14 March 2012 because the original described origami as an "infamous art", when what was meant was a famous art form.
Aleks Krotoskiis joined byCharles Arthurto round up the week's technology news, including the new iPad and Yahoo's patent battle with Facebook.Simon Parkinjoins us straight from San Francisco with news from the Games Developers' Conference.And the head of the UK's Interactive Entertainment trade body,Jo Twist, joins us to reveal her strategy for making games a priority in the forthcoming UK budget.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Along with LittleBigPlanet developer Media Molecule, thatgamecompany is one of the best examples of Sony's willingness to invest in new ideas. It's a studio focussed on making games that resonate emotionally, drawing on its staff's background in multimedia art. So far the studio has made Cloud, flOw and Flower: Cloud is a wonderfully relaxing flight through blue skies and drifting cumulus; flOw lets you be a micro-organism in the primordial ooze, munching others as you float; Flower is a gorgeous if rather heavy-handed meditation on the relationship between the urban and the natural in which you literally play a cloud of petals. They are beautiful, whimsical creations, but they have always stopped short of profundity.These are all games that have tried to push the boundaries of what interactive entertainment can express, but Journey tries harder – and Journey succeeds. Journey is profound, or at least it can be. The studio describes it as an interactive parable, the story of a lone traveller and their path through life told in the form of a voyage that starts in the vast expanses of a desert and ends … well, to tell you how it ends would spoil it. You think you know what Journey is going to be about after the first five minutes, but you don't. I came to it expecting something charming, visually stunning and perhaps even mildly edifying. I left thinking that it may well be, in many ways, the best video game I have ever played.You play a traveller swaddled in red robes, beginning atop a desert sand dune with a view of a shining mountain on the horizon. You're given no direction; instead you're guided by the natural impulse to move towards that looming, distant beacon. Control is intentionally simple and unobtrusive; you can only walk, jump and sing, but Journey still crafts some astounding scenarios from those bare gameplay ingredients. It has you surfing down sand dunes in the fading light, scaling towers, flying on the wind and cowering in underground ruins as you slowly uncover what could have happened to the civilisation that must have once lived there.It's steeped in vague religious imagery; shrines, billowing robes, a solitary desert setting that can't help but evoke the Old Testament from time to time. Gentle puzzles and hidden scraps of material that extend your fluttering scarf and let you stay airborne for longer provide the only traditional gameplay elements to be found in this adventure. Instead, the enjoyment comes from inhabiting and admiring its world.You will rarely play a game that makes you feel so much like you're actually there as Journey does. There is not the slightest inconsistency in its art direction, and this, together with extremely clever sound design and natural signposting, absorbs you in the game's world entirely. High dunes act as boundaries, and your eye is always instinctively drawn towards where you're supposed to be headed next, whether through lighting, camera direction or. At no point was I pulled out of Journey's world through clumsy design or a single frame of unnatural animation.It helps that Journey doesn't overstretch itself; it's about 90 minutes long, which is enough time to get you absorbed in its premise but not enough time for you to start questioning the substance behind its beauty. A lack of nuanced gameplay mechanics is hardly a problem for a game of this length. But the thing that really energises Journey, the thing that makes you want to play it through over and over again, is that you don't play it alone.From time to time, you'll see another traveller huddled down into their robes just off in the distance. Journey has ambient multiplayer that drops people into your game from time to time. You can either interact with them – by singing, or running around in circles together, by sticking with each other through to the game's conclusion and supporting each other – or leave them be to wander off into the sands again. Journey's emotional impact, which is not inconsiderable when playing along, is multiplied exponentially by sharing the experience with a stranger. It manages more meaningful communication with one button than most can with endless text and voice.There are probably some players for who the trick won't work, and for who this journey will be a beautiful but ultimately hollow one – aesthetically stunning, but perhaps not meaningful. For me, though, Journey has moved me as much as any other piece of art or entertainment has.Journey's visual and sound design sets new standards for interactive entertainment. This alone makes it an extraordinary work, but it's the way that these aesthetic elements come together with beautifully subtle direction and storytelling to create a lasting emotional effect that elevates this to one of the very best games of our time.• Game reviewed on PS3
From Norwich to New York, hotspots are pulsing on every street. A messy urban patchwork of Wi-Fi signals is being gradually woven into a blanket of coverage which may soon be equal to the signals pumped out by mobile phone masts.Wireless Fidelity (a non-scientific term invented by marketing people) is considered easy to hack, and the signals can often be weak, or password protected. But they are usually free and once in, they work at speeds well above the average mobile connection.Even for phone users, Wi-Fi has become the most popular way of accessing the internet. So why are mobile phone companies planning to spend billions connecting us to the internet via 4G phone masts?Vodafone says creating its 4G network in Europe will cost€30bn (£25bn). New evidence has reached my inbox which fuels a growing suspicion that it could be about to waste a lot of money on what may one day become a niche technology.In the UK in January 2012, only 19% of all internet traffic on smartphones was transmitted by a mobile network, according to researchers atInforma. They worked with Mobidia, whose app measures how much of your data allowance your phone has used up. The information was drawn from about a third of Mobidia's 600,000 users.Globally, Mobidia found 70% of smartphone internet traffic is carried by Wi-Fi. In the US, the total is two thirds. The picture is similar in Hong Kong, Germany and Spain. Among the major markets, only Japan and Singapore show an even split between networks. Informa says this is helped by the fact that they already have superfast mobile broadband, but more importantly because customers are sold generously sized or unlimited data plans at competitive prices.Informa analyst Thomas Wehmeier, author of Understanding Today's Smartphone User, published in February, said:The expansion of Wi-Fi into hundreds of millions of private homes and offices around the world, the deployment of more than 1m public Wi-Fi hot spots by the end of 2011 and the growth of a vast and mature ecosystem built of thousands of devices has established Wi-Fi as the most heavily used wireless technology in the world in terms of volume of data transmitted ... Wi-Fi is the primary form of connectivity for the overwhelming majority of users and it is apparent that Wi-Fi has become firmly entrenched in day-to-day usage.Informa last year forecast 5.8m open to all Wi-Fi hostpots worldwide by 2015, provided by public bodies such as town councils. BT Group's own network, not strictly public but widely available, now numbers 3.5m. It consists mostly of domestic Wi-Fi signals which home owners have agreed to share with other BT customers who might be passing within range.Even mobile operators, conscious that their own masts will soon be creaking under the strain of data traffic, are moving into Wi-Fi. At O2, they have promised a network of 15,000 sites, in public places like coffee shops, open to customers and non customers.Analysts Thomas Seitz and Jerry Dellis atJefferiesbank believe Wi-Fi is not as previously billed just a useful offload or back-up technology for mobile networks. Rather, it is threatening to eat their lunch.We believe evidence continues to mount suggesting Wi-Fi should no longer be viewed solely as a complement to mobile networks, but increasingly should be looked at as a potential disruptive substitute.Wi-Fi is not just an offload avenue for wireless data traffic, but in fact may be the primary means by which wireless data is consumed. Given that the bull case for mobile operators hinges on capturing revenue from the exponential growth in data volumes, we believe these trends need to be monitored closely. In our view, how the relationship between the mobile networks and Wi-Fi evolves could be a key determinant in the investment attractiveness of the wireless services sector.In the UK and elsewhere, operators have mostly stopped selling unlimited data at a fixed price. We now have allowances. When they are breached, heavy penalty charges kick in. Dellis and Seitz argue this change is driving smartphone users on to Wi-Fi.It is a grassroots technology, promoted and funded by a ragged coalition of trade bodies, cafe owners, universities, town councils, entrepreneurs and the occasional telecoms company. Despite this, it is gaining ground against lavishly marketed mobile networks.Wi-Fi is triumphing against the odds, suggesting it is the natural choice for carrying most internet traffic, even on mobile devices.How often, outside of a car or a train, do we need an internet connection on the move? It will be Wi-Fi that finally provides a phone signal for passengers on theLondon Underground, with the service due to be live for the Olympic games.Of course we still need 4G networks. A signal that works without having to fiddle about with passwords is always going to be worth paying more money for. For many rural householders, whose homes are difficult to reach with fibre cables, the technology offers the best chance of a fast internet signal. When it comes to keeping cities connected, however, Wi-Fi is slowly draining the power of the mobile phone mast.
Released in 2010, the first episode in this latest Sonic revival did what Sonic revivals tend to do – split critics, but ultimately disappointed fans. While some saw in this shameless ode to the original titles a hint of the old luster, others found it a tired and unchallenging romp through history.Episode 2, from my brief hands-on play of two zones, is a distinct improvement. Once again, it mixes familiar zonal themes from yesteryear with new gameplay elements and fresh layouts, but the effect feels more weighty and consistent this time round.A big improvement seems to be the handling. While Episode 1 made it all too easy for Sonic to accelerate from nothing to full-speed, allowing him to clamber up hills from a dead stop, Episode 2 takes us back to the more testing physics of old. Once again, Sonic has to build momentum to climb, and there's a slight delay as he begins a run, adding more challenge to jumping sections, as well as enemy attacks.There's also more detail and fun in the level designs. the Sylvania Castle Zone is a rush through ancient ruined buildings and lush forests, with light blazing through tree tops. Better though is White Park Zone, a swooping fight through a wintery theme park, with huge roller coaster and pirate ship rides animating in the distance, and pine trees lit by glowing lanterns lining the root.Here, we get lots of nice detail in the parallax scrolling backgrounds, but the level's graphical themes also intrude into Sonic's line of play – so, for example, he'll often have to bash snowmen to reveal spring pads. Its a really small touch, but it does much to combat that sense of separation between vibrant foreground and vapid stationary scenery that blighted Episode 1 at time.The major addition, though, is the arrival of Tails. Hitting the Square button during the single-player game brings Sonic's little chum into action, providing one of three helpful moves: a quick flight to lift Sonic over an obstacle; a deadly dual roll to power through enemies; or a submarine dash to get through water. Sure, they're a little intrusive and – like the homing attack from Episode 1 (which is back again here) will no doubt irk the purists, but it adds a touch of variety to the levels. And, of course, there's a co-op two-player mode too, that can be enjoyed locally or online.A few other details: Metal Sonic will be back for some of the boss battles, while bonus stages are going to re-appear, though Sega isn't saying anything about those at present. There are three acts in each zone, with four zones and a variety of extra levels to playthrough. The game will be released later in the spring on XBLA, PSN, PC, Windows Mobile and on Tegra 3-powered Android devices, and apparently each version will get its own unique features.I was genuinely charmed by my brief run-through of Sonic 4: Episode 2. The new graphics engine has certainly added depth, while the re-tuned handling brings some real challenge back in and will stop some of the cheaty moves that the instant acceleration of Episode 1 allowed.The Sonic revival continues, and this time there should be genuine and optimistic intrigue about how it pans out.
A selection of 12 new apps for you today:WrappSocial gifting app Wrapp has launched in the UK, getting people to connect their Facebook accounts to get a list of free and paid-for gift cards to send to friends. Retailers and businesses taking part in the UK include ASOS, Aurora Fashions, Fitness First, Pizza Express and Theater Tokens.Android / iPhoneShopitizeShoptizie promises to help people "manage, understand and control your everyday shopping" by taking photos of receipts. It then stores and analyses them to provide reports on your spending. In the future, it will also offer personalised deals and discounts. An iPhone version will follow shortly.AndroidKinoma PlayKinoma Play isn't one app: it's 50. Or as its Google Play Store description puts it: "a suite of 50 apps focused around digital media, social networking, location, and search", with those apps combining information into five "dashboards" called Play, Search, Places, Music and Send.AndroidPhotosynthMicrosoft's panoramic-photos app Photosynth came out in the US in April 2011, and has since racked up more than 6m downloads. Now it's been released worldwide, so everyone else can join in the fun of having their panorama photos stitched together automatically.iPhoneThe BeerdogThe Beerdog is a social location app for fans of, yes, beer. The idea being that it awards points for finding interesting beers around the world and sharing them, using image recognition to identity bottles, tapheads and beermats from photos. US-only? Judging by the App Store screenshot of a bunch of brews found in Dunfermline, this is global.iPhoneGlitch HQGames startup Tiny Speck has released an official Android app for its MMO Glitch, enabling players to check their profiles, message one another, learn and unlearn skills, and access their friend lists. For more on Glitch and mobile, read Apps Blog'sinterview from October 2011.AndroidFrank TurnerSinger/songwriter Frank Turner is playing Wembley Arena in April, and he's released an app to celebrate. Created by Offficial [sic] and PIAS Media, it'll see Turner posting videos, audio and photos from wherever he is in the world in the run-up to the concert.iPhoneRolex 2012 CollectionTantalising timepieces ahoy! Rolex has launched an iPad app to show off its 2012 collection, including high-resolution photos, videos and interactivity. The focus is the Oyster Perpetual Sky-Dweller watch.iPadProject SoundsProject started life as the first iPad-only men's lifestyle magazine. Now it has a musical spin-off called Project Sounds, which includes an album's worth of songs from new artists tipped to be big in 2012. The link above is for iPad, but aseparate iPhone version is available.iPhone / iPadMatchPintMatchPint could be a godsend for sports fans in the UK: it shows a list of local pubs and bars that are showing matches – and which ones they're showing. Facebook is tied in to invite friends along.iPhoneDoomGLESHmm, there's something familiar about this game: guns, demons, strafing... Yes, this is an Android port of the original Doom for smartphones and tablets, with the ability to also run Doom 2 if you have the .wad files to sling onto your device.AndroidLa Sagrada FamiliaBarcelona's famously unfinished cathedral now has an official app, developed by the Construction Board of the Basilica of La Sagrada Família. It offers a virtual tour of the interior.iPhone
A lot of companies shy away from talking about sales figures for their apps. Some are scared of Apple, others are waiting for the right milestone, and others hide behind the "we're a public company excuse". And yes, some are sensibly not admitting publicly that their apps have flopped.Thankfully, some companies do give figures. Here are some, fresh from BAFTA's What's App event in London on 13 March."In 16 months we've sold just under 600k apps across all of our brands, and we do around 15k downloads a week at the moment, all paid for," said Peter Sleeman, co-director of British publisher P2 Games, which has published iOS apps based on Peppa Pig, Fireman Sam and other children's brands."Peppa is the dominant brand, although Fireman Sam is doing extremely well. One of our apps will have sold in excess of 300k units in the next three months, while five or six will be through 100k units by the end of 2012."Sleeman said that P2 games spends between £50k and £60k developing each app on average, noting that the company's business model is profitable, while warning that app publishers "can burn cash if you get the market wrong".More figures came from Paul Bennun, chief creative officer of content design and creation firm Somethin' Else. Its Papa Sangre audio-only iPhone game cost £4.99 on the App Store. "We did about 70k copies of that, which is good business," he said at the event.Somethin' Else also worked with Random House subsidiary Transworld Digital on a book-app for Richard Dawkins called The Magic of Reality, which was sold for £9.99 on the App Store."That's a lot of money for an app, but it went to number one in 15 different countries in the Books section," he said. "We have sold about 23k copies of this now worldwide, and it's been out for a couple of months."Bennun added that Somethin' Else's The Nightjar – a free follow-up to Papa Sangre sponsored by Wrigley's 5 Gum – has been downloaded more than 130k times in the UK so far, and is now nominated for two BAFTA games awards.The Magic of Reality book-app has sold 23k copies at a £9.99 priceThe event, which focused on storytelling and children's apps, although not exclusively the latter in Bennun's case, threw up some interesting lessons learned by the two men and third speaker Tom Bonnick, digital project and marketing manager at book and book-app publisher Nosy Crow.Sleeman explained that P2 Games' producers aren't generally drawn from the games industry, but instead have a background working with children's TV, brands or content."It's easier to turn people with broader media and preschool experience into into producers of games than the other way around," he said. "We've had games producers come in and hate games that we know from focus groups are games that kids love, and love to repeat."He also noted that "your existing products are your best pathway back to your new products", citing P2 Games' inclusion of a 'More Games' button in its apps. He admitted that there had been a backlash from some parents, who saw this as selling to children in an inappropriate way.He also criticised the idea of using freemium models – free apps that use in-app purchases – for a preschool audience. "We don't believe in the freemium model for preschool, we believe in a priced model," he said."If the app is high quality, we believe people will pay £1.99 or £2.99 for that product. It's cheaper than a comic, and it lasts longer! We think the freemium model is just not right for preschool."Bennun said that with its premium-priced apps, Somethin' Else had been inspired by Apple's hardware strategy of pricing its products high, and relying on their quality to avoid being sucked into price wars with rivals."The business model for this is make something premium, market it in a specific way, then sell it for a lot of money," said Bennun, before highlighting the importance of Apple's role as iOS platform owner."If they choose to feature your app, you're sorted. If they don't, you're toast. At the same time, Apple can choose to change the rules whenever they want. It's their ball game, so they can, and they will."Bennun went on to give a specific example, citing Apple's launch of the iBooks Author software for creating e-books with light interactivity and multimedia content, to be sold in the company's iBooks store rather than its App Store.Bennun described iBooks Author as providing "a very limited subset of what you can really do with an interactive book", but suggested that Apple may be encouraging publishers to turn what would have been book-apps into iBooks."It's quite likely, based on nudges and winks, that Apple are going to turn around and say 'that looks like a book, it smells like a book, so stick it inside the iBooks store or you can't do it: we'll reject your app'. They're capable of doing it, but I hope they don't."Nosy Crow's Bonnick did not divulge any figures at the event – the company strikes me as waiting for the right milestone rather than any of the other reasons listed at the start of this post.He talked engagingly about how the company goes about its business though, with critically-acclaimed book-apps including Cinderella and The Three Little Bigs under its belt."You have to convince your audience that they should pay for digital content," said Bonnick. "It's a constant battle that we're facing, and a lot of digital markets are. There is still to some extent – although it's dissolving day by day – resistance to the notion that apps and any kind of digital content is worth paying for."He also talked about Nosy Crow's decision to keep its app development in-house, including recruiting team members from the games industry. And he said that publishers targeting the children's market must have a focus on quality above all."Children's expectations for interactivity are set so high when they hold an iPad," he said."If you just squash a lot of [book] pages onto the screen without them doing anything, a child will inevitably be disappointed. And we didn't want children to be given a book on-screen and feel disappointed about it."Nosy Crow's Tom Bonnick shows the Cinderella app at BAFTA's eventIn the Q&amp;A section of the event, the panel were asked about Android, and whether they see a big opportunity for children's apps on the platform. Bennun pulled no punches."You can't make any money out of Android," he said. "It's a total waste of time, and also an incredibly difficult platform to target technically because of the fragmentation."Even so, Somethin' Else is starting to make some Android apps, including some for Amazon's Kindle Fire tablet. "I'm not looking forward to it: it's going to be like pulling teeth," he said.Bonnick agreed that fragmentation is "a huge problem" for Nosy Crow, focusing particularly on the different aspect ratios of Android devices, and how this impacts "what can happen where on the screen" in interactive book-apps.However, he also implied that Nosy Crow will support Android once it sees a healthy market for its apps there. "There is no financial incentive to do it yet, but maybe one day."Sleeman was more positive: P2 Games' first Android app will come out in March or April this year."We're hoping that the strength of Peppa Pig, and the fact that we've already had to take down four or five fake apps [on Android] means there is a demand for preschool apps," he said."Game publishers are finding that growth is exponential on Android for good-quality products, but there absolutely is a ton of dross and a host of incompatibility issues. It has not been a particularly pleasant initial development experience for us, but we are planning another one."
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSir Jonathan Ive: The iMan cometh &gt;&gt; Evening StandardGood (if a little London-ish; understandable, as the Standard is a London local paper) Q&amp;A with Jonathan Ive of Apple.Hardware-accelerated audio/video decoding in Gecko (bug 714408) - mozilla.dev.platform &gt;&gt; Mozilla mailing listAndreas Gal is one of the Mozilla team leaders:I want to land bug 714408 on mozilla-central as soon as I get review for it. It adds hardware-accelerated audio/video decoding support to Gecko using system decoders already present on the system. Android, for example, ships by default with a number of decoders, and in particular for such mobile devices we really have to use these hardware-accelerated decoders for good battery life (and performance).Looks innocuous; in fact, it's the Firefox team caving in and using system decoders for H.264 and AAC and MP3 (patent-encumbered all), and essentially admitting that the open source WebM video codec is not going to get any traction on the web. Those with long(ish) memories may recall which company said it would drop H.264 support from its browser - but so far hasn't. Read the whole thing; fascinating.How does £15,000 of startup investment sound? &gt;&gt; Bethnal Green VenturesBethnal Green Ventures is an accelerator programme for technology startups working onthings that matter. How it works: once a year, we work with a group of very early stage companies and provide them with up to £15,000 of investment and a three month programme of support based in Bethnal Green in East London.Tell a friend.Nokia Money shot: Indian mobile banking service axed &gt;&gt; The RegisterFootnotes:Nokia is axing its banking service in India, the only place it was ever launched, as the company continues to scale back to focus on selling mobile phones. Following trials going back to the start of 2010, leading up to a national launch across India late last year, Nokia Money is shutting down in the face of increasing competition from local rivals. The company's new focus on making mobes has seen a load of periphery projects lopped off.Google Knowledge Graph could change search forever &gt;&gt; MashableThat's a Mashable "forever", so bring salt. However:Google has a confession to make: It does not understand you. If you ask it "the 10 deepest lakes in the U.S," it will give you a very good result based on the keywords in the phrase and sites with significant authority on those words and even word groupings, but Google Fellow and SVP Amit Singhal says Google doesn't understand the question. "We cross our fingers and hope someone on the web has written about these things or topics." The future of Google Search, though, could be a very different story. In an extensive conversation, Singhal, who has been in the search field for 20 years, outlined a developing vision for search that takes it beyond mere words and into the world of entities, attributes and the relationship between those entities. In other words, Google's future search engine will not only understand your lake question but know a lake is a body of water and tell you the depth, surface areas, temperatures and even salinities for each lake.Sounds very like the semantic web that Tim Berners-Lee imagined so long ago but is still waiting to happen.Google Search Quality Meeting: spelling for long queries (annotated) &gt;&gt; YouTubeAs part of our continued effort to be more transparent about how search works, we're publishing video footage from our internal weekly search meeting: "Quality Launch Review." We hold the meeting almost every Thursday to discuss possible algorithmic improvements and make decisions about what to launch. This video is from the meeting that happened on December 1st, 2011, and includes the entire uncut discussion of a real algorithmic improvement to our spell correction system.Fun, and insightful. We're also looking forward too to the video from the week when they debated pushing Google+ results up in the US but not the rest of the world (particularly Europe).And another pointmade elsewhereis: if this is Google, where are all the Chromebooks? What's with the Apple laptops?Open data comes to France: every public building mapped &gt;&gt; Guardian Data BlogAlors, j'ai trouvé la Musée d'Orsay. Essayer it yourself.Why You Need To Back Young Rewired State Right Now &gt;&gt; TechCrunch UKMike Butcher:Even as the UK government seems keener than ever to promote the technology sector as an engine of much needed growth - especially startups - there's a programme right under its nose which has been running for years which needs help, and now. Young Rewired State has been running annually on very low funding for a while.Yes, get involved. We'll do some flagwaving presently, but this is one to back now.Apple and its maps &gt;&gt; MapBoxA puzzle:Currentlythere is speculationthat Apple is using OpenStreetMap data for coverage outside of the United States, and the US Census'sTIGER datawithin. If this is the case, it's a strong vote for the use of OpenStreetMap data in mission-critical scenarios, much likeFoursquare's recent move. OpenStreetMap contributors have found telling similarities between Apple's maps and OpenStreetMap. Here are some examples fromGermany,ItalyandAustria. However, the data Apple may be using here seems to be from around 2010, assome people have commented on Twitteror havehypothesized based on reverse engineering. Neither Apple's website nor thelegal terms of the iPhoto applicationinclude mention of OpenStreetMap data though, leaving Apple's data sources officially unconfirmed. Neither Apple's website nor the legal terms of the iPhoto application include mention of OpenStreetMap data though, leaving Apple's data sources officially unconfirmed.The puzzle remains. What's clear though is that Apple hasn't gone for Google Maps. And that's significant enough in its own right.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Tuesday, then. Any start-of-the-week gaming action last night?
Yahoo is filing a lawsuit against Facebook claiming infringement of patents covering advertising, privacy controls and social networking, following through on a threat it made last month.In a court filing , the former web giant - which has been reduced to a shadow of its former self as internal strife and the rise of Facebook have eaten away at its position - said that Facebook, founded in 2004, infringes 10 of its patents.Yahoo had first threatened the suit last month. It demanded that the giant social network, which is preparing to go public in what may be one of the largest public offerings ever, should license the patents.Facebook, in response, pledged to defend itself vigorously against what it called "puzzling actions" by Yahoo. "We're disappointed that Yahoo, a longtime business partner of Facebook and a company that has substantially benefited from its association with Facebook, has decided to resort to litigation," the company said in a statement.The patent claims could cast a spotlight on Facebook's vulnerabilities as the company tries to complete an initial public offering of stock this spring. At the end of 2011, only 56 US patents had been issued to Facebook. That's a relatively small number compared with other big tech companies. Yahoo, founded in March 1996, has filed more than 1,000 patents covering various aspects of its operation.Lawsuits over patents, even in the realm of software rather than physical hardware, have become increasingly common in US business, where the US Patent Office is seen as more willing to grant patents on programmatic functions. Oracle is currently suing Google over patents that it claims to have which relate to the Java computing language and which it says are infringed by the Android mobile operating system.Similarly, a number of software developers who have written apps for Apple's iPhone and Google's Android software have been targeted by companies in the US claiming ownership of patents covering their functions.But software patent lawsuits often fizzle out. Oracle has withdrawn a number of those which it claimed to have, while Microsoft and a number of other companies succeeded in defeating a claim in February by Eolas, which claimed a patenton the "interactive web"- one in which Sir Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, personally testified.Yahoo defended its lawsuit, saying it has invested "substantial resources in research and development" over the years that have led to patents of technology that other companies have licensed. "Unfortunately, the matter with Facebook remains unresolved," the company said in a statement.Yahoo, which has seen its revenue fall steadily over the past three years, made hundreds of millions of dollars from a patent settlement that it reached with Google just before that internet search leader went public in 2004. That covered the system used to generate the advertisements seen beside search results: Yahoo owns Overture, the company which first came up with the idea of keyword-targeted adverts to go with searches.Yahoo will be hoping for a similar result this time round. It has been steadily losing share to Facebook in online display advertising: in 2008 it hit a high, when Yahoo's share of US display revenues peaked at 18.4% and Facebook had just a 2.9% share. According to eMarketer, in 2011 Facebook's share of overall US display advertising revenues grew to 14%, up from an 11.5% share in 2010, while, Yahoo's share of US display ad revenues fell to 10.8% in 2011 from 14% in 2010.• Twitter has bought the blogging site Posterous, "This team has built an innovative product that makes sharing across the web and mobile devices simple – a goal we share," Twitter said in a statement. "Posterous engineers, product managers and others will join our teams working on several key initiatives that will make Twitter even better."Posterous has previously raised $10.4m in venture capital funding, with $5m being injected last September, which implies that its sale price will have been well above that value.
Something important is happening with games at the moment. It has nothing to do with the blockbusting mainstream success of Modern Warfare 3. It isn't about the increasing convergence of Hollywood movies and Triple AAA interactive entertainment. It is about a quiet revolution in the indie sector, where small studios and even lone developers create offbeat subjective titles rather than noisy mega-bucks shoot-'em-ups.Because, just as in movies, it is the game design outliers who are producing the most interesting work, and who speak about the future of the medium. Last week saw the release ofJourney, a beautiful, elusive adventure game by the small LA studio thatgamecompany. Set on a dying desert world, it encourages players to co-operate anonymously over the internet to solve puzzles and reach a looming mountain peak. There is no text, there are no missions, the structure is poetic and abstract. It is like nothing else out there.The game tells us little about itself, but we may soon find out much more about how it was conceived and why. Three years ago, veteran New Zealand filmmaker Stephanie Beth was introduced to indie games by a young researcher at her documentary production company. She discovered designers like Jenova Chen, the Shanghai-born creator of Journey, as well asJason Rohrer, who makes thoughtful, philosophical adventure games like Sleep is Death, and Petri Purho who crafted the 'sand box' puzzler, Crayon Physics. She saw in the indie sector something comparable to the counter-culture scene of the sixties, and it fascinated her.Jenova Chen, the designer of Journey, in a still from the documentary"I wanted another big project for myself, I wanted to spend my sixties productively," she tells me via a Skype connection from her home in Christchurch, New Zealand. "I wanted to make a film that touched some of the grand themes. I do think there's a wonderfully rich and soulful layer to game production. I wanted to be part of telling that story with a documentary that has a life outside of the games industry hype. I could see that indie developers were slowing down to more reflective work in the face of this huge mainstream assault. I saw that as my point of entry."The result isUs and the Game Industry, a feature-length documentary, which Beth is currently shooting and editing. It is something of a meditation on the games creation process, and on the motivations of indie developers. Through the film, Beth follows the production of Journey, but also interviews Rohrer and other indie developers like Douglas Wilson, of Copenhagen studioDie Gute Fabrik, responsible for the genre-defying physical game, Johann Sebastian Joust."I was inspired by titles like Flow, Aether, Passage, World of Goo and Braid," she says. "These small games were designed to allow players to experience curiosity without their sensibilities being barraged by all the extras accrued in commercial games. They had a quieter purpose. It was this shift to more respect for the player's mood that was deeply exciting."Stephanie Beth with indie game designers Edmund McMillen (left) and Daniel Benmergui at the Independent Games FestivalBeth has an eclectic working background. In the seventies and early eighties she made feminist documentaries I Want to be Joan and IN JOY before travelling extensively and then moving in to teaching. "My undergraduate university life was fine arts, moving image and then some anthropology and cultural studies a decade later," she explains. During the last decade she has taught Media Studies and film production at the progressive Hagley Community College in Christchurch. Here, pupils habitually use creative games like LittleBigPlanet and Minecraft as a key element in their studies.For Beth, games are about much more than throwaway entertainment. Indie titles like the heavily spiritual Journey and Rohrer's collaborative narrative adventure Sleep is Death explore the sorts of themes tackled by the great indie filmmakers, and do so in similarly expressionistic ways. "Game design is the 21st century frontier," she says. "There is an opportunity to engage in a quest, whether that's intellectual, spiritual or emotional."There's been a great convergence of the media. How wonderful that the virtual world has widened our space – and we need space to not feel crazy. These forms – these games – are now superior, in terms of speed, impact and participation, to the long forms we've had since the nineteenth century. We don't need long narratives as much anymore – a French friend of mine keeps reminding me that the French language is just an antique luxury now!"Throughout our chat, we keep returning to this notion that indie developers are the modern equivalent of the counter-culture artists and musicans of the sixties. In the US, the indie games scene is heavily centred around San Francisco, the birthplace of the hippy movement. Lots of the key developers are based here, plus major indie-friendly events like the Game Developers Conference andIndependent Games Festivaltake place in the city. Undoubtedly, of course, many are here because of the area's role in the development of computer technology. From the forties, nearby Silicon Valley has been the beating heart of the US tech industry, while the dot com boom of the nineties saw hundreds of internet start-ups hit the city.But then, the computer industry and the rise of psychedelic culture in San Francisco share similar origins. Stanford University provided many of the brilliant graduates who would go on to populate the research centres of Silicon Valley, but it was also where Ken Kesey experimented with LCD and where many of the major Vietnam War protests began.With indie studios like thatgamecompany, there is a similar concern with exploring the parameters of audio visual experience. Jenova Chen's first commercial PlayStation game, Flow, is essentially a psychedelic music toy, while titles like Aether and Braid are surreal meditations that carry some of the spirit of Frank Zappa and Terry Southern."The sixties was all about this urgency to critique the fetid decline of  apathetic civilisation," says Beth. "It's incredibly important to support people who are forlorn with the way the world is. That's where game development has given fresh hope – it's an open space; it's a space to feel alive in. That's what excited me about these people making games - there is an emotional timbre to why they're doing it. There is a soul."The creative puzzler, Crayon Physics DeluxeInterestingly, Beth is looking to raise money for her film using the same crowd-sourcing techniques as the game makers themselves. She has set upa page on the funding website Kickstarter, which is mostly used by media companies and game makers who want to appeal directly to their supporters and communities rather than venture capitalists or mainstream publishers. Popular US indie developer Double Fine has just raised over $2m for its next title using the site.Beth's plan is to get the movie into festivals over the summer, and then start looking for a cinematic distributor. It will also be available via DVD and internet streaming, but she wants to get these games on the big screen in front of a more mainstream film-going audience.And this isn't the only current work exploring the indie games community. Filmmakers James Swirsky and Lisanne Pajot are currently touring the festivals withIndie Games: The Movie, another documentary interviewing and analysing the works of North American game makers, most notably, Phil Fish, the creator of the surreal and ingenious platform game, Fez, and Edmund McMillen, co-creator of the Xbox indie hit, Super Meat Boy. Theirs is perhaps a more conventional work, more knowingly structured as an 'outsiders-done-good' tale. It got a standing ovation when shown at the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco last week and is due for a DVD and internet streaming release later this year.Did it worry Beth that another indie games movie was doing the rounds? "As soon as I was aware that it was being made, I sort of switched off to it," she says. It was more about not wanting to be influenced by their approach or their subjects, though, rather than worrying about competition. "I thought it was exciting because it's more media about this point in the games industry - it just shows the depth of material there is in this realm. And I knew it wouldn't be the same, structurally. I knew I'd have a different pace, a different tempo and a calmer scrutiny."The collaborative story-telling game, Sleep is Death, by Jason RohrerWe talk a little about the way indie games are seeping in to the mainstream. While massive titles like Call of Duty and Grand Theft Auto are still making billions of dollars, many publishers are struggling to attract big audiences with their conventional Triple AAA releases – so they're looking toward the indie sector for inspiration. Sony has funded the development of Journey, as well as other smallscale projects, while mega-publishers like Electronic Arts are keenly scouring the indie scene for offbeat titles. Many games industry watchers are wondering whether we're reaching the point that the movie business got to in the late-sixties, when the major studios just lost touch with their audience and started giving creative freedom to auteurs like Francis Ford Coppola, Martin Scorsese and William Friedkin."The interface between art and technology is becoming more sophisticated now and that means people are not as impressed with advanced technology for technology's sake," says Beth. "That's a great place to be, to really look at this form. I'd like to think this film will communicate the 'wow' factor of indie games – the players and the makers both embody this excitement. Games give us the opportunity to indulge in curiosity, they provide factors that keep the brain active - and that helps human growth."What Beth also sees in indie gaming right now, which again takes us right back to the counter-culture movement, is this sense of youth and alienation, of frustration with the order. And sometimes of brilliance. "You must take a stand in your twenties," she says. "You have to work alone to see where you can rank yourself as a designer or programmer. You need to know that you can take the whole thing through to completion without falling apart."Every developer makes a decision about the meaning of life. Game design is for the bright and the focused, it's not for everyone. It's an incredibly hard discipline."You can find out more about Us and the Game Industry at the film'sdedicated website.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Any computer that can play illegal streams of football matches. I love the iPad, but they've got to get over their problem with Flash so that I can continue to watch football games illegally while on tour.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I watched Arsenal being beaten 4-0 by Milan in a hotel in Disney World, via a website I know. It was not the happiest place on Earth, that particular afternoon.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?No, I can't think of one.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Buy every second generation.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a nerd – phenomenally nerdy. But then, that's such a badge of honour these days.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably a desktop – it used to be a couple of grand for a computer. God bless Moore's Law.What is your favourite gaming system, and why?The Xbox, just for its versatility – but the PS3 probably has a bit more oomph. And the HD is better on the PS3. I'm in the luxurious position of having them all.What game are you currently playing?Batman: Arkham City. But it should be presumed that at any stage I'm playing all of them, because I haven't finished anything. I got to the end of Dead Space, and I will do with Batman, but I only finish one or two a year. I do like the blockbuster games.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download?I don't download games. With movies, I'm moving more toward Netflix and Sky Go. New music I gave up on ages ago – I'm all about Spotify. So if Netflix turns into Spotify, that will be the end of DVD.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Can they do stairs? Can they get into corners? Children will fulfill many of the same functions. And I'm yet to meet a robot who can fix a daiquiri as well as a small child can.What piece of technology would you most like to own?The best invention ever would be a straight to bed button – where, if you push it, you end up snuggled up in bed. You wouldn't have to negotiate the travel home, or anything. I'd pay any amount of money for that.•Dara O'Briain will host the2012 Bafta Video Game Awardson 16 March
Having conquered the arcades and consoles – no doubt with a little half-hearted trashtalk in the process – Tekken makes its debut on Nintendo's 3DS.Given the reputation of the title, it won't come as a surprise to hear that, for the most part, it's a seamless transfer. Sadly, for those who've played the game on a handheld before, it also won't come as a surprise to hear it's only fun for about 20 minutes.So, the positives. It's very pretty. The combat is slick. The game packs a lot of fighters – Tekken 6's 40-odd, in fact – into a tiny cartridge. There's canny use of the touchscreen: rather than attempt combination button mashing on the 3DS's tiny layout, the signature moves have been moved to four onscreen "buttons" so victory is often just a carefully timed thumb stroke away.Possibly too often in fact. While it's certainly less frustrating than the PSP conversion, to be all conquering doesn't always take much skill and craft on the lower skill settings. Random button presses generally work just as well as attempts to learn the ropes.The lack of challenge is compounded by the limited game modes and, arguably worse, the lack of unlockable content.Customisation is extremely limited: fighters come with a choice of outfit but that's all and victories earn cards rather than upgrades. These can then be traded with other Tekken 3DS fans  via Streetpass.  With the best will in the world, surely that won't appeal to anyone over the age of, what, eight?So, what do you get for your money? Beyond standard fighting or five, 10 and (ultimately) 20 fighter survival modes, not very much at all.Clearly there are enough Tekken fans out there to justify the conversion but it all simply boils down to pixels slapping pixels and that gets very boring, very quickly. Unless your name is Michael Bay, of course.• Game reviewed on 3DS
The latest Sims 3 add-on, like the others, has been carefully crafted to find new ways to micromanage your time and befuddle your senses. The basic virtual dollhouse formula is unchanged but Showtime adds a new hood, new bling and a supposedly new incentive to play – namely, discovering your inner diva.As always, you start by creating characters, finding accommodation and decking out them out with old and new items – of which there are more than250. Starlight Shore is a smallish new town, but comes complete with a bohemian beachfront area and plenty of inspirational housing to move into once you start making money. You'll also notice a bevy of performance venues, from small clubs and bars where you perform for tips to arenas that you can pack with paying customers once your skills improve.Sims vets will quickly plough into the minutiae of making friends, money and opportunities. However, what will strike you from the outset is Showtime's big new idea – Social Networking.Social Networking can be found in the top right of the screen as a pop-up window where players post memories, achievements, messages or friend requests. You can control who sends these messages to a certain extent, creating a constant visual chatter that you can tune into or out of at will. Old timers might find this distracting or even annoying, but I'm guessing the Sims' younger audience will love it.Perhaps less successful is the SimPort. This is basically an extension of the game's IM feature, allowing you to pack your character off to another player's game for an impromptu gig.They return with shared experiences and memories but little else – drawing attention to the fact that what this feature really lacks is a picture-in-picture display of your Sim being cheered or heckled by your so-called friends. This was probably too technically demanding for a mere add-on, but without it SimPort feels like a good idea waiting to be better implemented.So what of these new careers? Well, for the first time, Sim jobs are more than just a featureless means to making money – these are proper interactive pursuits that you are supposed to invest time in improving. You can choose between Singer, Acrobat, Magician and DJ – although the latter is a moonlighting career that any profession can try. I'm guessing most players will try the Singer first, armed with only a couple of cheesy tracks and a poor sing-o-gram business. As your reputation grows (and this applies to all three new careers) you can start requesting auditions for bigger gigs or showing up at SimFests; public talent contests with cash prizes.Each of the eight career levels adds more tracks, tricks and props to your repertoire. There are also new Wishes, Skills and three new character Traits too; natural born performer, social butterfly and diva.Fans of quirky characters, after the previous appearance of Vampires, can also look forward to a Genie granting them three wishes (including the ability to return from the dead) once the dusty lamp has been purchased from the Lifetime Rewards catalogue.So yes, Showtime has more of everything you'd expect but what it's really crying out for are some diva performances. I know it's a Sims game, so recycled moves and gobbledygook lyrics are perhaps to be expected, but surely they could have splashed out on better backing tracks?Even the Katy Perry limited edition, which you'd expect to be jam-packed with hits, only has a few fashion items and a poster. As for the DJ, there are some decent genres to mix (including Dubstep) but nothing you'll be tempted to crank up the volume for. Things do improve a bit if you choose to be an Acrobat or Magician, who at least can draw on better props as they move to bigger venues. It's not exactly Cirque du Soleil, but it's a lot better than sitting through endless karaoke gibberish from the singers.For dedicated fans of the series, Showtime is a worthy add-on, chock full of new diversions and clearly on a mission to take its audience out of the bedroom and into the wider world. In fact, between social networking and SimPort, if you were looking for a clue as to the future direction of the franchise, look no further. However, if it was hoping to keep reality TV fans tuned in, what it really needed was some Guitar Hero swagger.• Game reviewed on PC
The hard disc on my Windows XP desktop PC (not attached to internet, so nothing has crept in) has started thrashing for up to 10 minutes at start-up, and is thereafter very slow.Nigel TaskerOne relatively common problem with Microsoft Windows XP is that it can grind to a halt when there is some sort of runaway process that is using more than 80% of the hard drive or 100% of the processor. Usually, everything else is frozen until the rogue process stops.Unfortunately, it's a very unpredictable problem. A PC can run perfectly for years then start to misbehave for no obvious reason, perhaps because numerous files have been upgraded in the background. Your PC might, of course, have a virus or other malware infection, which is a very good reason for trying to identify the problem. But far more often, both the cause and the cure are buried somewhere deep in the operating system where most people prefer not to go.In general, the culprits tend to be either software drivers or anti-virus programs and firewalls. These are the ones that (unlike applications) operate at low levels in the operating system, and they don't always follow Windows programming rules. The systematic approach is to uninstall all your anti-malware software, update your drivers, and then use XP's old Config program to do a "diagnostic start-up". The quickest way to run the System Configuration Utility is to click Start, select Run, type msconfig in the box and either click OK or press Enter.If your PC works fine with only essential operating system files loaded – which it should, if you have 2GB or more memory and at least 1GB of free hard drive space – then use the Startup tab to remove all the extras, and add them back one at a time until you find the culprit. This involves numerous reboots and is so mind-numbingly boring that I've never actually done it.The alternative is to try to solve the problem by locating the specific process that is hogging the CPU or thrashing the hard drive. There are lots of ways to do this, including a very simple one, which I'll mention last. Non-techies can skip to the penultimate paragraph.The best known method is, of course, to run the Windows Task Manager (Ctrl-Alt-Del). This doesn't automatically show disk activity, so you will have to click the tab marked Processes, click the View menu, and then Select Columns. Tick the check boxes to add columns for two input/output columns, I/O Reads and I/O Writes, then look for any numbers that are changing rapidly. That should identify the rogue process that is thrashing the hard drive.Many of the processes running in XP should be obvious from their names, such as iexplore.exe and winword.exe, but you may have to run a web search to identify others.SysInternals (which was bought by Microsoft) provides a much better utility:Process Explorer. This is like a souped-up version of Task Manager. It has graphs at the top to show memory, disk and network usage, but you will have to go through the same routine as before to add columns for Read Bytes and Write Bytes. Again, this should enable you to see what's thrashing the hard drive.However, the most helpful utility for tackling this kind of problem is, in my experience,AnVir Task Manager Free. This replaces both Microsoft's System Configuration Utility – you can use it to remove startup programs and any unwanted services – and Windows Task Manager. Its Processes tab already has columns for CPU and Disk Load, so you just have to click the Disk Load heading to see all the programs that are using the hard drive sorted to the top of the page.Another nice feature of AnVir Task Manager Free is that you can hover the mouse over any process. This pops up a yellow note that tells you all about it (assuming it knows), including the process that hosts other services (svchost.exe). It provides all kinds of information including when the program was first detected (installed) on your PC, and when it was run. This means you can tell whether the program started up with your PC (in the example above, AnVir started when I rebooted XP on 28 February) or was run later. It's very useful if you're trying to find something that's behaving badly or should not be there at all.Task Manager Free looks things up on AnVir's website, so you may not get the full range of up-to-date info if your PC is offline.Some people will look at Windows Task Manager, Process Explorer and AnVir Task Manager Free and think they provide far too much information. They just want a simple answer to a simple question. As it happens, there is a program that does exactly that. It's calledWhat's my computer doing?, and I mentioned it in a similar answer a year ago (Why is my computer whirring?). What's my computer doing? provides a continuous read-out of the handful of processes that are actively doing things like accessing the hard drive, without listing the hundreds that aren't. Clicking on a process provides details, including Known Problems, plus links to external solutions in, for example, Microsoft support documents.If all else fails, the traditional solution is to reinstall Windows XP. This can clear up a lot of problems, especially if you have not done it for three or four years. However, XP is an antique in computer terms. It was released on 24 August 2001, so it predates both Vista and Windows 7, and Windows 8 will be along later this year. Rather than spend a lot of time debugging XP, have you thought about moving on?
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 10 MarchPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (73)PS3 (14)PC (8)12 (1)SSX(3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)23 (–)Street Fighter X Tekken(12+)PS3 (49)Xbox 360 (51)14 (2)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (38)Wii (7)PSP (3)245 (3)Mario Party 9 (3+)Wii (100)26 (–)The Sims 3: Showtime(12+)PC (100)17 (5)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (58)3DS (42)158 (7)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (45)PC (4)Wii (3)189 (9)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (43)PC (7)1610 (14)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (82)Xbox 360 (12)PS3 (5)5011 (16)Rayman Origins(7+)VITA (37)Xbox 360 (28)PS3 (24)Wii (11)1012 (10)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (34)PC (13)2013 (13)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (41)PC (16)1814 (17)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (79)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (2)2215 (–)Unit 13(16+)PS Vita (100)216 (4)Uncharted: Golden Abyss(16+)PS Vita (100)317 (6)UfFC Undisputed 3(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)418 (12)Batman: Arkham City(15+)PS3 (62)Xbox 360 (35)1219 (18)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (37)1720 (20)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (37)17UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of 18 new apps for you today:Khan AcademyArmed with the promise that it "allows you to learn almost anything for free",  educational site Khan Academy now has an iPad app providing access to its 2,700+ videos, covering everything from maths, biology and physics to finance and history.iPadWatch with eBayThis is US-only for the moment, but it's a fascinating take on second-screen apps from eBay. The idea: find auction listings relating to whatever TV show you're watching at the time, from branded sports apparel to DVDs and signed autographs. There's also a feature focused on celebrities' charity causes, spotlighting related items.iPadWilliams F1 iPredictorThe Williams Formula 1 team has launched a new iPhone app in time for the new season, which gets fans to predict events in each race to earn points: from the top six cars to the total number of safety car appearances. Players have to log in via Facebook, with a prize of a guest slot at a Williams practice day on offer to the winner.iPhoneSecret Agent Splat's MissionHarper Collins' latest book-app brings Splat the Cat to iOS, as the feisty feline goes on a search for some missing toy ducks. That's cue for a story, as well as three spy-themed mini-games for children to play.iPhone / iPadiA WriterMarvellous minimalist word-processor app iA Writer is already available on iPad and Mac, but now the former version has been made Universal so it works on iPhone and iPod touch too. And all three sync documents using iCloud.iPhoneDolphin BrowserInnovative gesture-based browser Dolphin has been a big hit on Android, but now it's available for RIM's BlackBerry PlayBook too. Tabbed browsing is blended with a system to trace symbols on the screen to access your favourite websites – a 'G' for Google and so on.BlackBerry PlayBookPhoto 360° by SferaPhoto 360° is getting plenty of praise for its slick ability to take panoramic photos, while capturing sound recordings to go with them. However, it's getting a kicking on the Google Play store for charging via in-app purchase if people want to actually share their shots.AndroidWhere The F*** Should I Go For Drinks?It started life as a website, but is now an iOS app. This gives you a simple recommendation of a bar nearby, laced with f-bombs.iPhone / iPadScreamBoardHammer Films has been digging into its horror archives to build this iPhone soundboard app, which lets you mix and match samples from different movies – although some sound sets have to be bought via in-app purchase.iPhoneChess Academy for Kids by Geek KidsWanting your children to learn chess? This iOS app may help: it has 140 tutorials and challenges designed for kids as young as five, with a progress-tracking bar to keep their enthusiasm up as they work their way through.iPhone / iPadDodgyIf iPhone is good enough for them, it's good enough for me... Britpop veterans Dodgy have a new app, offering news, videos,  music and gig listings. More social features are on the way in an upcoming update.iPhoneSXSW GoThere's now an official SXSW apps for Windows Phone with a schedule-builder, map of Austin and the conference venues, and social features.Windows PhoneRun TrainerThis is the latest sports-tracking app, this time for Android. It's based around 10-week training programmes for people looking to run 5k, 10k, 15k and 20k races. The app is free, but each course is paid for via in-app purchase.AndroidTopwrite for iPhoneThe slogan here is "Share ideas fast!" It's an app to type in text then quickly share it on Facebook and Twitter, send it as a text message or email. The idea being that you can change your mind on the destination midway through writing without having to switch applications.iPhoneFashismThe name may make you wince, but fashionistas may appreciate this Android app's ability to get you instant feedback on outfits. The idea: take a photo of yourself and ask the community what they think.AndroidMindWave Mobile TutorialI've seen the MindWave Mobile headset shown off at a couple of tech conferences: it aims to get you using brainwaves to control phones and apps. This new iPhone app aims to explain how it all works and get people using it.iPhoneFanzThis is the latest app aiming to connect sports fans, drawing on Facebook and Twitter to curate conversations around specific athletes and teams.iPhone / iPadChirp!Looking for a fresh Android Twitter client? This one's been built according to Google's latest design guidelines, although for now it's in early alpha – which at least means a chance to give feedback and influence the final version.Android
A quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple unveils iOS 5.1 with over 80 security fixes &gt;&gt; InfosecurityJailbreakers, bad news:Apple has unveiled iOS 5.1, the latest version of its mobile operating system, with fixes for over 80 vulnerabilities. Most of the plugged vulnerabilities involve the WebKit framework used to render web pages in Safari and other applications. Apple warned that visiting a malicious website could lead to a "cross-site scripting attack", an "unexpected application termination", or "arbitrary code execution", according to asecurity advisory. A number of screen lock bypass issues were fixed, including a race condition issue in the handling of slide to dial gestures.However jailbreakers said they'd figured how to get around it within a few hours. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Google+ aims to more than double users this year, executive says &gt;&gt; BloombergGoogle added the social-networking service in a bid to keep users on its site longer and boost ad revenue. The company said in January that Google+ had topped 90 million members, more than double the amount in October. Still, its user base is dwarfed by Facebook Inc. (FB)'s 845 million-plus members. And ComScore Inc. estimates that Google+'s members spend a fraction of the time on the site than their Facebook counterparts. Google+ is the basis for a broader shift at the Mountain View, California-based company, Gundotra said. "Google+ could be viewed as Google 2.0," he said. "Google+ is the next generation of all of Google becoming unified because it understands you and your relationships. And so all services get better."The question is to what extent people want that - or whether they want something more dispassionate. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)CanSecWest Day 2 - Smartphones, mobile security, iOS 5 and NFC &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityChester Wisniewski on the latest, which includes trying to hack "unrootable" Android phones, hacking iPhones, NFC risks and some more - notably what percentage of iPhones have been found to be jailbroken. Which is fascinating.Visualising the Kony video being shared &gt;&gt; Google+ RipplesThis is very cool:The ripple diagram shows this post spreading as users share it on Google+. Arrows indicate the direction of resharing. (Only public posts show up.) Circles within circles represent a resharing sequence, so large circles indicate heavy resharing.Observations: two people basically did all the sharing: Vic Gundotra (of Google) and Brian Brushwood (a magician).iPhone becomes biggest-selling cellphone in Japan &gt;&gt; ElectronistaAstonishing:Apple now has the top-selling cellphone of any kind in Japan, IDC Japan determined late Thursday. The iPhone 4S launch helped Apple claim 26.6% of all cellphone shipments in the country this fall. It may have been the first non-Japanese company to top local ranks, ending a longstanding emphasis on local makers. The Fujitsu-Toshiba alliance was next closest at 18.3% courtesy of its Arrows smartphones, while Sharp (15.7%), Kyocera (9.8), and Panasonic (8.8%) were next. Year-long, the spike was enough to give Apple 14.2% of the country's cellphone sales. Sharp (20.1%) and Fujitsu-Toshiba (18.8%) were still larger, but it did see Apple eclipse Panasonic (10%) and Kyocera (9.7%).Where are Samsung and Nokia? Japan really is a strange country.The new iPad battery: same great lifespan, tons more capacity &gt;&gt; iMoreSo, just how big is the battery?  The new iPad clocks in at 42.5 watt-hours, which works out to 11,666 mAh. That is a solid 70% boost to capacity over the iPad 2?s 25 watt-hour,  6,944 mAh battery.  The new iPad maintains the established 10-hour lifespan standard, and even if you're active over LTE rather than Wi-Fi, you're still getting a very respectable 9 hours of life.  To put that in context, an iPad 2 with with this new battery, if such a device existed, would probably last close to 17 hours on Wi-Fi. How does this shape up versus other LTE tablets? Well, Samsung claims the LTE-enabled Galaxy Tab 10.1 has 12 hours of continuous usage with a 7000 mAh battery, while AT&amp;T claims just as much with HTC Jetstream and its 7,300 mAh battery. Of course, these are dealing 1280 x 800 screens, which are bound to be way less taxing on lifetime, but it's still a considerable difference.Would be interesting to know if Apple has some new battery technology in there. Given the volume/power change, it seems like it must. Perhaps the iFixit teardown (expected any time soon) will explain.Apple R.I.P. &gt;&gt; Forbes.comNote that this isn't contemporary. In fact, see if you can guess when Michael Malone wrote it before clicking through:But with falling profits and plummeting stock, and having hastened the end of the desktop PC era, Steve Jobs has put Apple again in a precarious position. When the end does come, the big companies will have the necessary capital to transition into the multitude of new industries that will evolve out of the PC. The products of these new markets will be, thanks to Apple, stylish and beautiful. What an irony it will be if Apple, cranking out ever-less profitable commodity iMacs, its stock depressed, cannot afford to follow.Kaspersky: Duqu Trojan uses 'unknown programming language' &gt;&gt; ZDNetFaintly worrying:The sophistication of the worm is one thing, but the fact that an entirely new programming language may have been created for it, points to some seriously deep pockets backing the project. Security experts have suggested that a state must have been involved in its development, and Kaspersky CEO Eugene Kaspersky supports this speculation on Twitter:The mystery of #Duqu frameworkhttp://bit.ly/w5BrzP&lt;- seems the state behind #Duqu sponsored the development of a new progr languageThat's slightly worrying. A whole new programming language for something to attack Windows?SPDY Momentum Fueled by Juggernauts « Mike's LookoutRecentSPDYnews comes from some big brands: Twitter, Mozilla, Amazon, Apache, Google.Twitter has adopted it. SPDY ("speedy") aims to be a method to reduce latency for web pages.Instagram hits 25 million users - you heard it here first &gt;&gt; Lies, damned lies and statisticsDirk Singer:Since Christmas the mobile photo network Instagram has gained over ten million users.  This makes Instagram the largest mobile only social network with a global reach (see comment and update below).  Foursquare by comparison is on around 22 million. Instagram hasn't officially announced these figures, and they aren't published anywhere else as far as I can see.Though of course, same question as any social network: how active? How interactive?Weathering the Vertical Storm &gt;&gt; Expletive InsertedAn ex-Microsoft employee writes:If Apple is made in Steve Jobs' Image, then Steve Ballmer is made in Microsoft's image. The large, blustering, bumbling exterior belies a very smart, capable core that is struggling to weather two storms: (1) the shift in power from from client to cloud and (2) the return to dominance of a vertical industry structure in the fastest growth area of computing: mobile. Steve Ballmer can't take many lessons from the way Steve Jobs weathered the horizontal storm. Microsoft's remarkable profitability means that it will not hit bottom for a long, long time. It can't easily do the iMac trick and retreat into a niche, because horizontal platforms need market share and scale in order to succeed. And it can't do the iPod trick of finding a nascent category to dominate, because horizontal platforms don't do well in the early stages of a market when consumers need clarity and simplicity more than anything else about the value proposition.Is the UK music industry sleepwalking into a CD crisis? &gt;&gt; Music Industry BlogMark Mulligan makes the point that the CD, the main money-maker, is vanishing, and nothing is coming to replace it:The music industry is being entrapped by a demographic pincer movement: on the left the emerging Digital Natives lack a product strategy that meets their needs, on the right the traditional CD buyers lack a format succession cycle. This is why the industry is becoming obsessed with squeezing as much 'ARPU' as it can out of the remaining core of 20 somethings and 30 somethings. But of course that strategy can only go so far.I've written at length about strategies for the Digital Natives, but the case for the Digital Refusniks is even more pressing, if less glamorous.Our future with Android &gt;&gt; Mike MobileWhere did your dollar go?  We spent about 20% of our total man-hours last year dealing with Android in one way or another - porting, platform specific bug fixes, customer service, etc.  I would have preferred spending that time on more content for you, but instead I was thanklessly modifying shaders and texture formats to work on different GPUs, or pushing out patches to support new devices without crashing, or walking someone through how to fix an installation that wouldn't go through.  We spent thousands on various test hardware.  These are the unsung necessities of offering our apps on Android.  Meanwhile, Android sales amounted to around 5% of our revenue for the year, and continues to shrink.  Needless to say, this ratio is unsustainable. From a purely economic perspective, I can no longer legitimize spending time on Android apps...Mika, as you can guess, makes games - specifically Battleheart, a real-time RPG, but others too.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
People pre-ordering Apple's new iPad online to avoid the release-day crowds at  stores will have to wait longer to get their hands on the devices.Apple says that due to high demand, it has been forced to put back delivery times for online buyers.Those ordering online will now be restricted to a maximum of two devices, and will have to wait until Monday 19 March, rather than getting deliveries on the launch date of Friday 16 March because demand for the new version of the tablet is "off the charts", according to an Apple spokesperson.Unveiled by chief executive Tim Cook on Wednesday 7 March, the new iPad boasts what Apple calls a "retina display" – meaning that when held at normal reading distance the individual pixels in the display cannot be discerned.The new iPad also includes superfast LTE connectivity for mobile broadband, though the wide range of frequencies used throughout the world, and Apple's focus on the US, means that the first models will apparently not be compatible with LTE frequencies allocated for the UK.The announcement of the three-day delay in shipments for online orders may increase crowds at the company's retail stores ahead of the launch. However Apple is still selling its iPad 2, now a year old, on which it has reduced the price – from a starting price of $499 down to $399 in the US, and from £399 to £329 in the UK.Would-be Apple buyers can be impatient. In January, enraged Chinese shoppers pelted Apple's flagship store in Beijing with eggs and shoving matches broke out with police after customers were told the store would not begin selling the iPhone 4S as scheduled. The company is believed to have halted sales there after determining that many of the buyers were aiming to sell them on directly for a markup.The demand for the iPad may raise Apple's share of the tablet market beyond the 60% share it already enjoys, according to some analysts.IMS Research forecasts that approximately 70m iPads will be shipped in 2012, which would represent a 71% year-on-year growth.Gerry Xu, PC market analyst at IMS Research, says: "There is a large customer base loyal to Apple products that have been waiting for the latest tablet."Many owners of the iPad 1 are also expected to upgrade to the latest release. In addition to this consumer demand, growth is also forecast as a result of sales into enterprise and education."IMS Research is forecasting that Apple's share will rise to 70%, while that of Android tablets will actually fall, from 35% in 2011 to 26% this year, as new tablets using Windows 8 become available in the latter part of the year.
