There is still a significant divide between the internet haves and have-nots across England and Wales, according to a new map which charts web access across the two countries.Point Topic, a consultancy that specialises in internet issues, has analysed take-up of high-speed broadband internet services and mapped its results along constituency lines."There are two digital divides in England and Wales," explained Point Topic's founder Tim Johnson, "a geographic one and a social one. The geographic divide is closing fast but the more serious issue is the social digital divide."Point Topic's research shows that in affluent urban areas - such as north London - where broadband is available through BT's phone lines and cable networks Telewest and NTL, up to a third of households have broadband. In poorer areas fewer than 10% have broadband.As internet access is increasingly used in education these areas risk being left behind in the push for a "knowledge economy".The research also shows an age gap, with only 8.8% of households headed by someone who is 75 or older having any form of internet access.The divide is perhaps most severe in Wales. The central and north Cardiff constituencies have the highest penetration of broadband internet access at 37% of households, but seven of the 10 least wired constituencies in England and Wales are to be found in the principality.Plaid Cymru's Adam Price, contesting one of the 10 worst supplied areas, Carmathen East and Dinefwr, as its incumbent MP, described the digital divide as "clearly very severe"."Broadband is a prerequisite for a thriving economy in the 21st century," he added, saying the present government has failed to make use of technologies that would open up rural areas to broadband. Most rural parts of the country rely on BT's lines for broadband internet access.Last summer the company announced it would place broadband technology in most of its telephone exchanges, opening up high-speed web access to more than 99% of Britain. However in some remote areas it is not economical to install broadband equipment.A spokesman for the company said yesterday it is working on wireless solutions to help to bring broadband to areas without coverage, such as parts of Wales.The Welsh assembly is also looking at obtaining funding to help remote parts of the country get wired-up.
StolenPS2, XBOX, PCTaking its visual cues from Sean Connery's Entrapment, Stolen is about the seductive, safecracking Anya Romanov. Unlike Lara Croft, Anya's repertoire of moves is designed to avoid detection, with darts to track guards' movements replacing weaponry and hand-to-hand combat providing her slightly pathetic last resort. Although nimble, the twitchy, imprecise-feeling control scheme serves to highlight the unutterable perfection of piloting fellow wall-runner the Prince Of Persia. To reinforce the clumsiness of its antics still further, Stolen's proximity of release to last month's Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory, a stealth game par excellence, makes this a difficult purchase to justify for all but those obsessed with computergenerated lady bank robbers.&#183;Hip Games, &#163;30-40Starfox: AssaultGamecubeAlong with boring pink cloud Kirby, Starfox is one of Nintendo's also-ran mascots, with his most recent outing, Starfox Adventures, a case of grafting Starfox branding onto a game previously announced as Dinosaur Planet. Starfox: Assault is a return to the series' shoot 'em-up roots, with traditional in-space and tank-based levels joined by slightly duff on-foot missions. Once again Fox is supported by three wingmen doing very little except bleat for help. Starfox: Assault is a reasonably competent shooter that's a victim of the unusually high standards set by the series' early heritage.&#183;NG Nintendo, &#163;40Red Ninja: End Of HonourPS2, XBOXWhether discovered via Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles or martial arts epics, the lure of the ninja is a powerful one. This is a fact well understood by games developers with titles from the rigorous Ninja Gaiden to the silly iNinja silently stalking the shelves of games emporia. Joining these ranks is Red Ninja: End Of Honour, a game featuring the usual stealth attacks and running along walls, cursed by controls clunky enough to reduce you to bellowing fury before you've even finished its training level. Dull, irritating and deliberately bloody to court an 18 rating, this is gaming at its least rewarding.&#183;NG Vivendi, &#163;40
Poor celebrities, they can't blink without someone taking their picture and scoffing at how weird they look with their eyes closed. Visithttp://blinkorama.blogspot.com/for the evidence. Meanwhilecelebrities-eating.comhas added more pictures of famous folk wrestling with bad food. Fans of photos of drunk stars falling out of taxis - who isn't? - should head towww.befuddle.co.uk,   a high-end version ofwww.beerandrugby.com/Pages/mateinastate.htmbut with Paris Hilton. Calmer people paparazzi can be found athttp://www.notundoom.com/whileyouweresleeping.html. Whilewww.hanasiana.com/spt/features photos of people taking photos. Finally for some Japanese photo fun why not pay Miss McDonald a visit atwww.livejournal.com/users/miss-mcdonald/- just don't mention Hamburgler.JDEmail your favourite sites totheguideinternet@gmail.com
For those of you, like me, who are still addicted to the marvellousWorld of Warcraft, then today is a big one. The "honor" update goes live in Europe, rewarding players who kill members of the opposing faction. Before today the only reason for attacking a player controlled enemy was the thrill of the hunt - now players will get ranking points. And asBruciealways said, points make prizes, which in this case include new armour, weapons and other goodies. Butadvance reportsfrom the US suggests that the nicely balanced gameplay of before has been shattered, with groups of higher level characters ganging up on lower-level cannon fodder. Whether the European servers will be affected in the same way remains to be seen, but those who like to mind their own business and play alone could be in trouble.
It's proving to be a slow day here at Online Towers. I was trying to Photoshop an iPod advert featuring Bill Gates dancing around, but unfortunately my l33t skills were just too poor.Instead I found this: a picture of Steve Jobs posing for a magazine sometime in the 80s. Note the lack of bow tie, oversized double-breasted suit and knowing smile.Anyone got any amusing captions?There's even a prize: best one wins anexclusiveOpera browser T-shirt (pale blue, sized L). I bet you can't hold back, can you?
Anyone familiar with Dick Tracy will have surely coveted a crazy watch that can show you film and speak and all kinds of stuff.Well, kids - the future's here. But it's not all that.This week our gadget stalwart Ashley Norristook a look at NHJ's VTV-201telly wristwatch, and came out with a puzzled look on his face.For football fans who can't get near a TV for next year's World Cup, the £129.95 VTV-201 could fit the bill. Shame the battery will die before the final whistle blows.There's a whole bunch more inWhat's New, our weekly gadgets round-up.
Watch out, everyone: some researchers are claiming that email is worse than smoking a spliff. Fortunately sending digital messages has not been made illegal - just yet. Here's a bit ofexplanation:The distractions of constant emails, text and phone messages are a greater threat to IQ and concentration than taking cannabis, according to a survey of befuddled volunteers.Doziness, lethargy and an increasing inability to focus reached "startling" levels in the trials by 1,100 people, who also demonstrated that emails in particular have an addictive, drug-like grip.Anyone who's got experience of BlackBerry will understand why it's known as "CrackBerry", and there's something to be said against the mind-numbing stupefaction of sitting in front of your screen all day.But really?
TheFinancial Timestakes a look atLonghorn(subscription only, pah!).The long-awaited new version of the Windows operating system is about to move out of the realm of the theoretical. Next week, Microsoft will hand out a limited early rendition of the software to help hardware developers design compatible equipment. ... In effect, Longhorn has been unbundled. Each of the three elements that were once touted as its key ingredients have been split off from the core system. One - a new file system known as WinFS... has been delayed. The other two elementsIndigo... andAvalon... will be made available without Longhorn.So what does that leave of the "core" Longhorn system?I think we've still got to wait until ordinary developers and punters can get a look at the system before we can answer that one.
The distractions of constant emails, text and phone messages are a greater threat to IQ and concentration than taking cannabis, according to a survey of befuddled volunteers.Doziness, lethargy and an increasing inability to focus reached "startling" levels in the trials by 1,100 people, who also demonstrated that emails in particular have an addictive, drug-like grip.Respondents' minds were all over the place as they faced new questions and challenges every time an email dropped into their inbox. Productivity at work was damaged and the effect on staff who could not resist trying to juggle new messages with existing work was the equivalent, over a day, to the loss of a night's sleep."This is a very real and widespread phenomenon," said Glenn Wilson, a psychologist from King's College, London University, who carried out 80 clinical trials for TNS research, commissioned by the IT firm Hewlett Packard. The average IQ loss was measured at 10 points, more than double the four point mean fall found in studies of cannabis users.The most damage was done, according to the survey, by the almost complete lack of discipline in handling emails. Dr Wilson and his colleagues found a compulsion to reply to each new message, leading to constant changes of direction which inevitably tired and slowed down the brain.Manners are also going by the board, with one in five of the respondents breaking off from meals or social engagements to receive and deal with messages. Although nine out of 10 agreed that answering messages during face-to-face meetings or office conferences was rude, a third nonetheless felt that this had become "acceptable and seen as a sign of diligence and efficiency".In fact, it is a recipe for muddled thinking and poor performance, said Dr Wilson, who also called for restraint by the two-thirds of people who check work emails out of office hours and even on holiday. He said: "Companies should encourage a more balanced and appropriate way of working."
We've got that Friday-in-the-sun feeling.This, assomanyothershave suggested, is a hilarious and surreal commentary on the battle between historical and contemporary game consoles for supreme dominance, done in retro Final Fantasy style.Sega Fantasy IVis long and is geeky, but oh is it funny.For anyone who's ever had the pleasure of getting stuck into a FF game and has dreamed of a different outcome to the current leader board of console market contenders, this is an excellent distraction. Take the afternoon off and enjoy.
Wall Street roared back yesterday with the Dow Jones blue-chip index enjoying its best gains in two years.That momentum could be maintained today after Google, releasing first-quarter figures after the close of the session, reported a more than fivefold increase in profits.Investors appeared to gain confidence on the back of more positive economic data, merger activity and gains in first-quarter profits at some of America's biggest companies.The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended the day 206.64 points higher at 10218.60. The past two weeks have seen violent swings on US markets in both directions due to fears that the economy might be stalling. The Dow skidded towards the 10,000 mark on Wednesday, losing 115 points.Yesterday was the Dow's biggest one-day gain since April 2, 2003.Google shares were marked up almost 9% higher in after-hours trading to $215.54. The company went public last year at an offer price of $85 a share.The internet search engine posted earnings of $369m, (&#163;194m) compared with $64m a year earlier. Revenues almost doubled to $1.26bn.The figures reflected the broad growth of online advertising and Google's continued stranglehold on the search market. Eric Schmidt, the firm's chief executive, said the company had "been able to take full advantage" of the improving advertising climate.The company worked to keep ahead of rivals during the quarter, launching new services including Google Maps. However, almost all of Google's revenues still come from advertising that is triggered by key search words.Nerves were frayed last week by negative corporate news.IBM missed forecasts and said it was having trouble nailing down deals towards the end of the first quarter, while Apple and General Motors also disappointed. But the flood of first-quarter results released by other big names in corporate America this week has eased concerns that the economy could be hitting a wall. Technology firms were particularly hit by IBM's warning and they experienced marked gains yesterday after positive numbers from the likes of Intel, Yahoo! and Motorola. Microsoft rose 4%, Intel 2.8% and Hewlett-Packard was up 2.6%.The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 48.65 points, or 2.54%, to 1,962.41.Among other companies reporting yesterday, McDonald's posted a 42% rise in profits to $728m as it reaps the benefits of an investment programme to improve its restaurants and menus, begun two years ago.The fast-food chain said its American business enjoyed its 24th consecutive month of same-store sales increases in March - the first time in almost 25 years. McDonald's revenues climbed 9% to $4.8bn.Shares in Altria, the owner of Philip Morris, gained 2.6% after it said it had opened talks with Beijing to begin making and marketing Marlboro cigarettes in China. United Parcel Services was also up 5% after raising its full-year estimates.The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 rose 22.45 to 1,159.95 points.Fears for the economy were further eased by a report yesterday showing that factory output rose in April. The Philadelphia Federal Reserve's report said its business activity index jumped to 25.3 from 11.4 in March. Wall Street expected a contraction. A figure above zero indicates growth.In addition, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, told a hearing that the US economy appeared to be growing at a "reasonably good pace this year", although he did warn again about the need to rein in deficits. Initial jobless claims for the week showed the biggest drop in three years.The biggest share price jump was at Archipelago, the electronic trading company that is merging with the New York Stock Exchange. The NYSE announced the historic deal that will see it traded as a public company for the first time late on Wednesday. Archipelago shares closed 66% higher."Solid earnings, the absence of any inflationary readings and the midday trigger of a stronger-than-expected Philly Fed opened the dam," said one analyst of the rising indices.
"The new Google service, available starting Wednesday on Google Labs, tracks every search users have done when they are signed on to My Search History and it also lets them search all the pages they've found using Google.com's search engine," reportsReuters."Users will be able to review the full text of any Web page they clicked on from a Google search results page. They also have the option to disable the service or remove particular searches from their history."All of the information will be stored on Google's servers — something analysts said is all but certain to rankle privacy advocates — which will allow users to view their search history regardless of where they are when they sign on."Comment:Use your Google or Gmail account athttps://www.google.com/searchhistory/login
A couple of weeks ago, I wrote aboutthe race for bigger, faster, cheaper broadband.No surprises that BT, the goliath of British ISPs, is able to make price cuts... and that's exactly what it's doing. BT is upping the ante by reducing the prices of all its services - for a limited time, though.The spiel says "Today BT launches its best value broadband offer for its family of consumer broadband products - giving customers the chance to buy broadband for just £15.99", but here's the real deal.For the first three months prices for the Broadband from BT family of products will be as follows:BT Broadband Basic (up to 1Mb) down from £17.99 to £15.99BT Broadband (up to 2Mb) - down from £24.99 to £22.99BT Yahoo! Broadband (up to 2Mb) - down from £26.99 to £24.99BT Yahoo! Broadband (up to 2Mb) - down from £29.99 to £27.99The proviso is, of course, that these prices only apply for the first three months. It's likely in response to price sensitive advertising from the likes of Tiscali, but competition and price cutting are usually fairly good news for customers.Whatever the motive, it still marks a step change in the aggressive marketing of higher speed services.
These are competitive days in the mobile industry. Barely a week goes by without the launch of a new video or music download service from one of Britain's operators, and each network is constantly enlarging its portfolio of 3G services to tempt new users. After splashing out &#163;22bn on third-generation data licences during the height of the dotcom frenzy, there is a strong desire to make 3G profitable - so the operators are working in overdrive."And they have to be," says Julian Hewett, chief analyst at Ovum. "According to our forecasts, revenues from voice services are going to be in decline."This is the stark financial imperative for mobile operators to broker content deals and trumpet new products. Faced with declining profits from voice calling, the networks have turned to content as their third way - a ploy to get customers to keep spending money. Ringtones and messaging continue to perform remarkably, but operators and handset manufacturers alike are increasingly placing their focus on mobiles - especially 3G phones - as the perfect platform to deliver valuable text, video and music."This is an exciting time," says Bob Iannucci, a senior vice president at Nokia and the head of Nokia Research Center, where the mobile manufacturer develops new products and interfaces. "The mobile industry had explosive growth around voice in the 1990s. Now, over the coming years, it is data - video, music and the like - that is going to explode."This prediction is shared by most industry insiders, a proposition that essentially boils down to "the future's bright, the future's data". They dream of properly translating the revolutions that have rocked the internet to cellular networks. It is a promise that phones have never really delivered on, but has now become possible using existing protocols and faster technologies such as 3G. At the moment, this is delivered to customers in a limited fashion through walled-garden operator portals, such as Vodafone Live! or T-Mobile's T-Zones.By contrast, the world inhabited by Tomy Kamada, the co-founder of Japanese software licensing firm Access, is one that looks a lot like the internet. That's because it is: he is one of the brains behind i-mode, a web-browsing mobile application that sets a new standard for bringing content to mobile users. Here, the walled garden has a much lower fence around it, and everyone - broadcasters, publishers and amateurs - can get their content out to mobiles. "Content providers who really want to make money from mobiles spend money on making their content specific for mobiles," he says, but the restrictive barriers of the operator portal have been broken down.Six years ago, Kamada's firm linked up with Japanese telecoms firm NTT DoCoMo to create i-mode, an alternative to the Wap (wireless application protocol) mobile internet standard. When i-mode launched, the information superhighway was bustling with youthful vigour, and far-sighted mobile manufacturers knew that people would want to get web-based information on their phones.Fast forward to 2005, and i-mode has more than 42m subscribers in Japan alone. What started as an untested joint venture now dominates its home ground - and has valuable lessons to give the nascent European market, where it is beginning to make inroads. It is launching services with networks including French operator Bouygues Telecom and Spain's Telefonica, and later this year it will make its first appearance in Britain under the banner of O2."There's a two-year advantage for the Japanese market," says Kamada, who believes that content is the most important thing 3G has to offer customers. "Why? First of all, it's the price of the devices. This year, handset manufacturers will start to make 3G handsets affordable in Europe. Then there are the prices of 3G services. If price is acceptable and handsets are affordable, then we'll see growth."That growth is not happening fast. It took 3 eighteen months to get past the 1m subscriber mark, despite being the only 3G operator for most of its lifetime. Vodafone, which launched its 3G service in November, is struggling to encourage uptake - some have pegged the figures at less than 200,000. Higher prices and limited interest have made it relatively slow to take off, but Charles Dunstone, the chief executive of Carphone Warehouse - Britain's biggest mobile phone retailer - last week said he believed "3G will go mad in the second half of the year".It is unlikely the restrictive Wap browsing of 3G-based content has had much effect on uptake, with price the major factor. But the future could be different: the war over content will really heat up once the price of switching to 3G drops and content providers begin to take an interest.There are, however, striking parallels with other technology that mean the content war between networks could be a short-lived flare-up rather than a raging inferno."This is the same cycle we had with the internet," says Ovum's Hewett. "Just look at what BT did a few years ago when they launched broadband: it was all about the content they could deliver. Now that's been dumped almost completely. Ultimately, service or content providers don't want to be limited to one network, they want to be on as many networks as possible because that's where the value is."This "internet effect" - the democratisation of content - has been a major driver on the web, letting users out of their ISP's clutches and giving them the freedom to read whatever they want. Although some services, such as AOL, promote a contained browsing experience, most simply provide the pipeline through which customers access the web.The internet effect gives media companies the opportunity to deliver output directly to consumers, rather than through a third party. Internet browsers that give users the freedom to surf fully on their phones - such as i-mode and the recently released version 8 of Opera - offer a kind of freedom that hands power back to content creators. The middleman has lost his way, and if free browsing becomes standard on mobile phones, the operators could suffer the same trouble ISPs did five years ago."At the moment, the platform is chosen by the operator," says Simon Garth, vice president of marketing for software firm Symbian."The product is packaged and given to the end user rather than them having freedom. But over time, as end users get more familiar with the packaged services, they will demand more flexibility."It is a bind worthy of Joseph Heller, if not quite as dramatic: operators use content to differentiate themselves from rivals and draw in more customers - but, once 3G uptake is large enough, content providers become more important than networks. The same content will be running across multiple operators, and it will become more difficult to stand out from the crowd.For example, customers might stop saying "I want the network that has Premiership football highlights" and start asking "why doesn't this network have Premiership football highlights?". It is a subtle difference, but one that changes the relationship between the operator and the brands it carries.If content providers wrestle power back for themselves, through the web or other on-phone applications, networks could be left in the lurch - relegated to the role of an internet service provider."Frankly, you can do some of this already," says Symbian's Garth. "On smartphones you can already run non-operator applications. And we see smartphones reaching the mass market by 2006 or 2007."Thomas Husson, mobile specialist with Jupiter Research, is more upbeat. "Strong brands like Disney or MTV will want to go straight to the user, but at the moment the mobile portal is the way into the data," he says.He thinks operators have enough time to get stronger before the internet effect takes over."Search engines are still some way off and the networks are using the content to build their own brand," he says. "For example, 3 is focusing more on sport, while Orange is maybe more interested in cinema."But the situation means networks are finding themselves in some strange places. The desire for mobile video is sending them towards broadcasters such as BSkyB, while tailored news services will compete against established websites such as the BBC.Orange's music download sales, meanwhile, are being incorporated into the download music chart, placing them in an area more familiar to Apple's iTunes.Are they network services or internet portals? It is still unclear, but the lessons of the web suggest they will struggle to be both. Perhaps operators must face up to the fact that control will eventually be handed to content creators.It's not all bad news, though. "There's little loyalty from consumers," says Hewett, "but even if the operator only gets a 20% share of content revenues, it still could be a substantial piece."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails to  online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Government should look to the open source movement for more than its software, an influential think tank said yesterday. Wide Open, a pamphlet published (free) by Demos, suggests that habits of sharing knowledge through loose communities of interest, such as the Wikipedia encyclopaedia, could improve law-making, standards in the media and health education.But first, says co-author Tom Steinberg, government must relax its obsession with stopping things going wrong and become less risk averse.Steinberg is a director ofMysociety, the charity behind pioneering websites such aswww.FaxYourMP.comand the recently launchedwww.NotApathetic.com, a site where people not intending to vote can post their reasons why.Demos avoids the temptation to talk of "open source government" - the term open source should be limited to software. Instead, it proposes three new terms: open knowledge, open team working and open conversations. These "open methods" are tools to encourage the evolution of good ideas and to spread their benefits more quickly. What they have in common is that "they give people back forms of power they have either lost, or never had".Examples of open methods are Mysociety websites such aswww.TheyWorkForYou.com, an annotated, open knowledge version of Hansard. Another project along these lines isTalkEuro, an annotated version of the European constitution. Such sites cross the boundary between activism and officialdom, Demos says, to the discomfort of some politicians and officials. However, "just as in the case of open source development projects on the internet, the involvement of more players tends to improve the quality of what is done, without necessarily reducing the room for leadership".Steinberg says that experience with sites such as TheyWorkForYou shows that most people act responsibly when posting annotations on the web. However, government's instinct is to cater for trouble makers. The former civil servant says it should be bolder about experimenting rather than following its instinct "to put up barriers to ensure quality".One of Demos's suggested roles for open methods is in drafting new laws. Although the government publishes draft bills on the web, these are mainly for the benefit of specialists - and are posted in "such obscure ways that they may as well never have been put online". Wikipedia-style drafting need not be a free for all, Demos says. Contributions could be categorised, allowing citizens, academics, judges, politicians to comment and have their contributions clearly marked. (It also notes that even Wikipedia has had to lock certain entries, such as that on President George Bush.)However, if the process achieved enough scale and legitimacy, "one can even imagine parliamentary processes being adapted to make consideration of the contributions via the open system obligatory".More immediately, local bylaws could also be drafted according to open principles. "With very high levels of internet penetration, it is entirely conceivable that these could evolve in a semi open source way, enabling anyone living in the area to propose changes and, subject to structured discussion, amendment and voting protocols, to have new bylaws agreed."Steinberg stresses he is not talking about sidestepping local elected members. "As with many kinds of very local democracy, there would need to be some backstop powers to prevent abuse, discrimination or rules that directly threatened the competence of higher level bodies."Although Steinberg agrees that drafting laws with open methods is "one of the more way-out ideas", he sees no reason why society should   not immediately try out the open source model of working in such areas as health care.One idea would be to help front-line NHS staff share radical ideas to improve treatments or cut costs. A public open collaboration might provide an entirely open space on the web for such brainwaves. "There would be no limits on who could contribute. There would be visible recognition and sometimes reward for ideas that are widely taken up."The recently launched Teachers TV digital channel could provide a platform for similar processses in education.Elsewhere in society, e-marketplaces could allow small businesses to employ people for short periods. Set up on an open working model, these would incorporate a system of scoring workers for reliability and ensure they knew what sort of organisations they were dealing with. A consortium of local authorities in London has recently received funding to test e-marketplaces as a way of employing casual staff among people unable to work more than a few hours a week.What is needed now, Demos says, is a period of experiment and argument: finding out what works. Obviously, the open methodology is not applicable to every situation, Steinberg says. "You wouldn't want to do experimental surgery on an open source approach, but there are areas in life where it doesn't do any harm to be exposed to more openness and criticism."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Reutersis carrying an interesting report from Kenya on a new text message service for jobseekers.Since internet access is fairly limited in rural parts of the country (despiteattempts to get more computers into schools), people use text messaging to look for work."It's relatively easy. All you need is access to a mobile phone with a Safaricom connection," said Antony Mwaniki, OneWorld International's business manager."The moment we get a job advertisement and put it on the system, it is automatically sent to the subscriber's phone as a text message," he told Reuters.More grist to the mill of those who theorise that it is telephony, not computing, that canreally bridge the digital divide.
Two self-promotions in a row... I hope you don't mind.There's a cracking piece in the Guardian today that I'd like to point you to. It's an extract from a new book byThomas L Friedman, the commentator and columnist probably best known for his work with the New York Times.The piece is calledGlobal is good, and explores the incredibly international supply chain behind his new Dell computer - and how technology and supply could help make the world a safer place.I'll let the article's standfirst tell you a little more.In his provocative new book, distinguished American commentator Thomas Friedman argues that digital technology and increasing globalisation have created a 'flat earth'. In this exclusive extract he unravels the dizzyingly complex supply chain behind his laptop - and argues that it will make the world a safer place.Go read it.
This week's edition of our print supplement hashit the streets, full of all the technology goodness you could possibly want.This week we're looking at how getting fully-functioning internet on mobile phonescould leave the networks a tight fix, what differencethe download chart really madeand Google's move intolocal searching.We talk to Intel co-founderGordon Mooreand Jack takes a look back overMoore's Lawon its 40th anniversary.Glyn Moodyargues for BitTorrentas the tool that can save small producers, while Michael CrossWe also examine north London's new"Technology Mile"and wonder how businesscope with email.And there's much, much more.Click herefor a complete listing of this week's articles.
Open sesameI must have dozens of passwords, user names, account codes, pieces of "personal information" etc. I manage these by making cryptic notes on bits of paper. And I forget them. Is there an easy-to-use solution?John WhiteJack Schofield replies:Passwords should be long, should include numbers as well as letters, and must not be dictionary words. One simple way to construct memorable passwords is to take two four-letter words and join them with a number, such as jobs4boys or swan2sing. Or use a 3/5-combination of letters with two numbers, or whatever. You can keep these in a notebook, possibly using hints so you don't have to write them out in full. Another idea is to associate a pop song with a site, use the first letters of the most memorable line, then add numbers. Joni Mitchell's "I've looked at clouds from both sides now", for example, becomes Ilacfbsn.Once you have a system, you should be able to construct and generally reconstruct passwords from memory. This is probably secure enough for most purposes as long as you don't tell anyone your system. However, there are lots of small programs designed to store passwords safely, such as Gregory Braun's shareware Password Keeper for Windows (www.gregorybraun.com/PassKeep.html). There are about 18 alternatives atwww.nonags.com/nonags/orgmisc.html. Scarabay is one example that works from a removable medium, such as a USB drive.Parish ITOur parish council has been given a one-off payment of &#163;1,000 to spend on improving our IT usage. I have managed to get a website by usingwww.thelocalchannel.com. Can you advise on the best use of the money? Could we get Wi-Fi?Michael ScottMargarettingJS:You could certainly set up a council or community Wi-Fi network in a central location, but this implies on-going costs for a broadband internet connection. Also, how many people would use it? You have made an excellent start with the website (The Local Channel), so I'd be tempted to spend the money on a 10-year domain name and look at building a "village portal" at Margaretting.com. Because of ongoing costs, you'd have to use free hosted services, but you could start with a message board, a Wiki, a closed user group on MSN Spaces, and so on. What do readers think?Scam cityI have been searching for a good online service allowing legal MP3 downloads without digital rights management for use on my MP3 player. MP3downloadcity.com seems to be a very attractive service, claiming to be legal, but I can't see how a one-off payment can provide you with a billion music files, movies and games.Chris BrownJS:You are right, it can't - not legally. MP3downloadcity.com has been reported to the US Federal Trade Commission for deceptive advertising (seewww.cdt.org/copyright/20050308complaint.pdf). Like MP3downloading.com, mentioned last month, it's a scam.Server saverI have recently moved on to PlusNet Broadband and note that it includes a security package with anti-virus, spam filtering and firewall protection in the basic price. Will it be as effective as the current Norton anti-virus and firewall protection, which I am paying for separately?Bob WhiteJS:PlusNet says it is using Sophos anti-virus software to check email on its servers, so you should not receive any viruses except, perhaps, for very new ones that have yet to be added to Sophos's checklist. I'd rate Sophos above Norton. Spam-blocking is also done on PlusNet's servers. Even though some malware will always get through, I think most people will prefer having spam and virus emails blocked rather than delivered to their PCs. After that, the best protection is an alert human brain.PlusNet's FAQ says a software firewall will be provided "in association with a major firewall software supplier". If you don't like that, you can always run a good free firewall such as Sygate Personal or Kerio.Backchat&#183;Last week, I suggested Mike's CDScan as a simple way of capturing a CD's file list in plain text (since you can open the resulting catalogue in Notepad or whatever). Oliver Searle says: "The way I catalogue the contents of my CDs and DVDs is to open a command prompt, cd to the folder/disc, then execute tree /a /f &gt; c:\contents.txt. This produces a very readable tree structure in the file c:\contents.txt." You can also write a batch (.bat) file to save all that typing.&#183;Janet Gyford asked about simple mobile phones for technophobes and I suggested the Nokia 1100. Alan Paterson recommends getting a pre-pay Sim and a Nokia 8210 on eBay. It is still "the best phone (as opposed to phone/camera/music box) ever made", he says, "and all for about &#163;25." They don't make them like that any more, unfortunately.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
PC sales upWorldwide PC shipments increased by 10.3% to 50.4m units in the first quarter of 2005, according to Gartner researchers, with strong European growth compensating for a soft US market. Dell's shipments grew by 13.7% to 8.5m units, and it gained market share, but this was the first time for 10 quarters that its growth was less than 20%. HP held second place with 7m sales and a market share of 13.9%, followed by IBM (4.6%), Fujitsu/ Siemens (4.1%) and Acer (3.7%). Acer's worldwide shipments grew 35.9% to 1.85m units, and research company IDC said Acer retained its market leadership in notebook sales in the EMEA region (Europe, the Middle East and Africa).Two's companyAlienware, Dell and Velocity Micro this week started shipping PCs with dual-core Intel microprocessors, which Intel is targeting at "computer hobbyists and entertainment enthusiasts" who are most likely to pay a high price for extra power. The initial platform is based on a 3.2GHz 64-bit Pentium Extreme Edition 840 ($999 - and that's just for the chip) with the Intel 955X Express chipset. More affordable systems are expected later. Intel's rival AMD is expected to make some dual-core Opteron announcements today.Flash gunnedAdobe is to acquire Macromedia for $3.4bn (&#163;1.8bn) in a move that will simplify the content creation market. The combination of Macromedia's Flash graphical animation software and Adobe's Acrobat portable document format (PDF) also opens up interesting possibilities for developments. The two companies have a degree of overlap between product ranges and it seems likely that Fireworks and Freehand will be merged into Adobe's more successful Photoshop and Illustrator, while its GoLive could be subsumed into Macromedia DreamWeaver. This could reduce competition and make the merger subject to scrutiny on monopoly grounds.Adobe and MacromediaLesser BlueIBM, the world's largest computer company, is preparing to cut costs in Europe following disappointing first quarter results for the year. Mark Loughridge, IBM's senior vice president and chief financial officer, singled out Europe and Asia as areas ripe for reorganisation - which will probably mean the loss of many jobs. Germany, Italy and France seem to be problem areas but that does not mean the UK will escape cuts. Big Blue appears to be considering moving centres from Germany and Sweden to exploit lower costs in Eastern Europe. Ovum, a market analysis firm, believes IBM's results may be made worse by organisational restructuring and awaits next quarter's numbers with interest.Ovum technology newsTechnology islesThe Isles of Scilly council is improving its e-government provision of a single service to a small, dispersed population across five islands. This poses the country's smallest unitary local authority with the problem of offering therequired range of services from a limited council tax income. The project is being steered by an e-programme manager supplied by SocITM Consulting, and the first phase will examine possible options. The second phase, from May to December, will focus on delivery. The wider use of technology will improve communications capabilities and the quality of services provided to the 2,000 inhabitants.Isles of Scilly e-technologySkype anywhereOverseas contacts can call at local charges using an extended service from Skype, the internet telephone company. Skype is extending its Voice over IP (VoIP) services to allow calls to, and accept calls from, standard phones. The test covers eight countries, including the UK, and each user can buy up to three phone numbers in any of the participating countries. A Skype user based in the UK but with friends in New York can buy a local US number, making international calls free. Numbers can be rented for &euro;10 for three months or &euro;30 per year.www.skype.comSkyCard floatedBSkyB has launched SkyCard, which works as a standard credit card and loyalty card, but can also be inserted into the interactive slot on Sky set-top boxes. Sky says this will allow users to manage their credit card account and redeem loyalty points via their TV and remote control, and it plans to add more services. Customers can apply for SkyCards via Sky Active or the web.Sky card&#183;Contributions from Jack Schofield and Eric Doyle&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails to  online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Lego Star Wars is the pick oftoday's reviews. The cutesy, yet amusing, re-enactment of battles from Star Wars Episodes I-III is easy to pick up and play. "Varied gameplay sequences, such as pod racing, are plentiful and challenging, and a Free Play mode offers replay value", says reviewer Steve Boxer. Aimed at kids maybe, but adults will get a lot out of this - especially when playing with another person. Lets hope they bring out one based on the original movies.Next upis another good 'un - Freedom Force vs The Third Reich. As you'd expect with a title like that, this is one game that doesn't take it self too seriously. This is comic-book strategy/role-playing action that is all about creating your own superhero and learning how to use your powers. Rhianna Pratchett is impressed. "It is obvious that Irrational has had as much fun developing this game as you will have playing it", she says. Last and least is Matrix Online. I've been playing far too much ofWorld of Warcraftrecently - what an utterly compelling relationship-killer that game is - and was interested to see how its new competitor shaped up. Not very well is the answer. While there are some interesting elements - stylish combat, movie plot premise - the game basically feels unfinished. At least for now then, this is one for patient and understanding Matrix fans only.
It wasn't quite the rock revolution the industry had hoped for. An unknown indie band didn't snatch top spot, Mariah Carey wasn't relegated to the bargain bin, and, bar a few more guitar riffs, disposable pop stayed strong. In fact, Sunday's Top 40 Official Singles Chart, which for the first time included legal music downloads, didn't change its tune very much at all.Tony Christie's (Is This The Way To) Amarillo remained at No 1 for the fifth week in a row. Elvis Presley and 50 Cent were ever-familiar faces in the Top 10. And there was only one independent record more than there would have been before."It wasn't a radically different chart," admits James Gillespie, spokesman for the Official Chart Company (OCC), which compiles the chart. "But because it sampled twice as many units sold, it hopefully was relevant to twice as many people."After including tracks downloaded on to iPods, MP3 players and computers, the new chart almost doubled in size to 800,000 units - making this historical change more about representation than revolution. The new chart "will identify the real big hits out there and they will stay there for a while," says Gillespie.This fairer representation of music buyers is meant to radicalise the charts. The young, mostly female buyers should be replaced by older, male fans searching for rare rock records and independent acts. According to the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), while a majority of singles buyers are female and 39% are under 25, 96% of the download spend is by males, only 7% of whom are under 25.On Sunday, however, these influences were hard to find, apart from a few subtle moves in the ladder of pop popularity. Oh My Gosh by Basement Jaxx, for example, would have been at No 45 if just physical format sales were counted, but instead made No 27. And Dakota by Stereophonics reached No 34 instead of No 46."It was interesting there weren't more changes for the Top 10," said Monica Stephen, co-founder of digital record label Protest Recordings. "The focus was more on shuffling of positions rather than new entries."This could have been because a rule of the new chart stipulates that all entries must be released in physical, as well as downloadable, format to be eligible for entry. So one band, Gorillaz (EMI), released 300 limited-edition vinyl copies and made the rest of their sales online, entering at No 22.With Protest putting out a digital-only release soon, the label questions the need for physical formats. "&#91;The OCC&#93; assured us this was a temporary arrangement," Stephen says.Gillespie backs this up: "We will have to look at all the rules and see if they are serving the industry properly. Whether it will stay like that, I can't say."There are many benefits to digital music: wider audience reach, unlimited stock space and cost. Digital tracks are cheaper to make and cost less - iTunes costs 79p compared with the lowest single price of &#163;1.99. It is also easier to track chart fraud from download sales. In the 70s and 80s, says Omar Maskatiya, the OCC's chart director, fraud was widespread, but it has cleared up a lot. "Because you buy online, there is a record of the transaction, so any potential hyping leaves a trail of evidence."But others are still concerned about the inclusion of digital formats so soon after the launch of the first download chart in September. Last week, the Association of Independent Music (Aim) submitted an official complaint to the Office of Fair Trading, claiming the chart was unfair. Aim accused download retailers of prioritising releases from the majors - Universal, Warner Music, EMI and Sony BMG - over independents.The OCC refuted the claims, yet the inclusion of downloads was delayed by the BPI, which postponed the March 20 launch over fears it would disadvantage indies who had not had enough time to put tracks online.Aim maintains the merger took place too soon, with two-thirds of indie singles in Sunday's Top 75 lower than they would have been without combination. The independent label singles that are benefiting - the Stereophonics (V2) and Basement Jaxx (Beggars) - "are buoying up this false impression that &#91;the download chart&#93; is doing well", says Aim's chairwoman, Alison Wenham. The UK independent sector, which accounts for a quarter of the market, is not well represented in the new chart, she says. And without a chart placing, tracks suffer in terms of marketing, radio play and press coverage.But this should change. "The industry is now aware of the problems independents have, and they will hopefully be given priority," says Wenham.LinksOfficial Charts Companywww.theofficialcharts.comBritish Phonographic Industrywww.bpi.co.ukAssociation of Independent Musicwww.musicindie.orgBBC Radio 1 Chartwww.bbc.co.uk/radio1/chart/singles.shtmlProtest Recordingswww.protestrecordings.comHow to release digital musicGuardian Online: How to release a web-only album&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails to  online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Cable &amp; Wireless is considering extending its Bulldog broadband service to more than half the UK population, presenting a significant challenge to BT in the race to attract internet users.The company, which returned to the residential market a year ago through the acquisition of Bulldog, yesterday announced plans to spend &#163;190m in the next three years upgrading its UK network.While the new network will allow C&amp;W to offer corporate customers an improved range of communication services using internet technology, it will also serve as the basis for a reinvigorated consumer offering through Bulldog.As a result, Bulldog is understood to be aiming to recruit many more engineers and will reveal numbers when it reports its annual results in May.C&amp;W, which was led to the brink of collapse four years ago by an ill-timed expansion into the internet sector, hopes to save an extra &#163;50m this year through its new network. BT is meanwhile spending &#163;9bn on an upgrade that will take four years. It is expected to announce the hardware partners that will supply its new kit within weeks.But C&amp;W's chief executive, Francesco Caio, who took over the ailing business in April 2003, denied that his plans for a new network are a knee-jerk reaction to BT's move. "This is not just an investment in boxes in the ground ... this is an opportunity for us to take a   mid-term view &#91;of the market&#93;," he said.He also warned that competition in the corporate communications market is as tough now as it was in the dotcom boom. "In general terms, we don't see any major variation to price trends," he added.With this in mind, C&amp;W has become increasingly interested in the consumer market, where it made a name for itself in the 1990s with the Mercury brand. There are more than 7 million broadband internet users in Britain, but most ISPs are forced to base their broadband access on wholesale products sold by BT, meaning they are unable to offer differentiated services.Bulldog, which C&amp;W bought for &#163;18.6m last May, is involved in local loop unbundling which allows the company to take control of the crucial copper phone line that connects homes and businesses with BT's local telephone exchanges. Taking control of that line allows Bulldog to design its own services.Bulldog had aimed to place its kit in 400 BT exchanges by December this year, covering 30% of the UK population. Mr Caio said yesterday it had reached 320 by last week and "we are reviewing opportunities and options to expand our coverage beyond the 30%".The company is understood to be planning to roll out its service to more than 50% of the population, which would make it the largest national competitor to BT, on a par with cable companies Telewest and NTL.
Savvy votingCould the ghost of tactical voting be back to haunt the Conservative Party? Last seen in action in 2001, Tacticalvoter.net resurfaced on Friday to scare Conservative candidates defending slender majorities. The site runs a service that pairs Labour supporters who live in one marginal constituency with Liberal Democrats who live in another. The aim is to get them to pledge to swap votes in the hope of defeating the Tories.Tactical voting promises to be more dangerous than in 2001, and the number of sites has exploded. Brian Eno and Billy Bragg are waging online tactical campaigns, while Tory grandee David Davis might be displeased to hear of the unofficial blog dedicated to his ousting. Other sites urge you to register a tactical protest vote against Labour.tacticalvoter.net/blogwww.strategicvoter.org.ukwww.libdemthistime.orgwww.votedorset.netwww.ditchdavis.comblogs.guardian.co.uk/election2005Secret diaryYou might also be surprised to learn that Michael Howard has a daily campaign blog, although he doesn't write it, and neither does anyone at Conservative central office. It is, in fact, the work of "Toby Flux", who revives the style of Private Eye's Secret Diary of John Major (aged 47). We learn that, like President George Bush, the fictitious Mr Howard is also a recent iPod convert. His playlist might lack Dubya's taste for country music, but "the Tory leader" affirms he is "too tough on crime to fileshare".Further sophisticated Tory baiting comes courtesy of a site that allows clever manipulation of the party's campaign material. You can create your own version of its recent controversial poster campaign (the one that says "it's not racist to impose limits on immigration") by adding your own text to a basic design template that renders your slogans in the familiar "handwritten" Tory typeface. You can then print out the results, a far easier and safer option than defacing the originals, though there's also a site dedicated to that.www.michaelhowardmp.co.ukkryogenix.org/code/conposter/index.phpwww.toryscum.com/2005/04/09/taking-streets-part-2Question timeIf you are still undecided in two weeks' time, then a quick stop at Whoshouldyouvotefor.com could help you make up your mind. All you need to do is answer 23 straight- forward multiple choice questions, sit back and let the site calculate your likely voting preference. Old Labour voters beware: show too many socialist tendencies and you are likely to be told to vote Liberal Democrat.www.whoshouldyouvotefor.comTubeway armyAway from the election, new tube sites appear as regularly as metro mice on the Central Line. Transport for London recently added a map of what the tube will look like in 2016 to its website. The equally well-designed Yourstation.co.uk is a welcome addition to a growing canon of third-party sites dedicated to the London Underground. It dedicates a page to each station and asks you to fill them with stories that "tell more about the surrounding area than the official text".Map of the tube in 2016www.yourstation.co.ukSatellite image of the tube mapRising highManhattan is no longer home to the greatest number of high-rise buildings. According to monthly data published on the Emporis website, a provider of building-related data, Hong Kong is top of the blocks, with 7,422 buildings of 12 floors or more. The former British colony is followed by New York (5,444), then Seoul, Chicago and Singapore. The European city with the most high-rises is London (1,295), a lowly 23rd on the world chart.www.emporis.com/en/bu/sk/st/srMusic for charityThe War Child charity network has launched a site that sells exclusive music downloads. Unlike Oxfam's Bignoise, the site selects a small selection of tracks and makes them available for a month. You can subscribe, or buy individual songs. Currently on offer are exclusive Bjork remixes, as well as new material from Four Tet, Sons and Daughters and Morcheeba. Each track costs 99p and all profits go to help kids in war zones.www.warchildmusic.comwww.bignoise.comSix of the best - Hitchhiker's Guide To The GalaxyThe moviehttp://hitchhikers.movies.go.comThe bookswww.hhgproject.orgThe original radio series/www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/hitchhikers/Can't waitHobbes download archiveDouglas Adamswww.douglasadams.comH2g2www.bbc.co.uk/dna/h2g2&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The BBC has launched agame design competitionfor kids between the ages of 13-19. The winner (judged by Peter Molyneux) will have his or her design transformed from paper into a web game for theBlastandTeenswebsite.Your task is to come up with a great idea for an online game inspired by art, film, music, writing or dance. We're looking for a game offering about 5–10 minutes of game play. The winning game will be made using Flash. You don't need technical or illustrative skills to take part but you do need to be passionate about games.Even more fab is that they're taking the game design challenge on the road, offeringworkshopsacross the country.The competition closes on 19 July. In the meantime, try and beat my score of 14000 on theGame History Quiz(1 wrong, completed in 1 minute).viaWonderland
Six weeks on the chart so far, most of those at number one. But only average reviews in the dedicated press. How has FIFA Street become the sales phenomenon of the spring? What has elevated this well-presented but rather shallow title to the heights of chart success? Of course weshouldknow the answer (and it's not all about the lack of serious competition). But here's a re-cap just in case…First, EA is pretty smart. It has clearly studied the marketing tactics employed by the big sportswear manufacturers – dividing its key franchises into micro-brands to target specific user groups. FIFA Street, a subdivision of the FIFA Soccer series, goes squarely for the urban teen, with its run-down inner city settings, rap soundtrack and clearly identifiable real-life heroes. The likes of Adidas and Reebok use identical techniques, creating limited edition sub-branded street wear, quite separate from – but trading on the reputation of – their performance footwear lines, then using hip artists to endorse the range (see 50 Cent in the current RBK campaign). EA, you see, actually has more in common with Nike than it does with Activision.But EA also knows its consumer better than any other publisher currently in the business. It knows that most people who buy games, don't really understand the technicalities of what makes a well-crafted experience. Many reviews of FIFA Street criticised the poor AI and ball physics, but these elements are more or less invisible to the mainstream gamer. Meanwhile the customer comments on Amazon concentrate on the great graphics and exciting speed. These are the elements EA focuses on. Of courseallpublishers prioritise visuals, it's not rocket science, but EA is upfront enough to admit that FIFA Street offers little else. 'It's how you score, not how many' goes the marketing message – style over substance is written into the very DNA of the game.FIFA Street, then, is all about immediacy, the initial enthusiasm linked to performing an overhead kick with a player who looks just like a real-life superstar. That buzz is enough for most casual gamers, just as the buzz of a great special effect is enough for multiplex cinema goers. The buzz is forty quid well spent. And let's be honest, how many PES players ever get anywherecloseto mining the game's depths? The intricate Master League mode, the wealth of strategic options opened up by the shoulder buttons… A tiny minority, that's how many.Clearly there's a vast difference in expectation between the reviewer and the mainstream consumer. Twas ever thus. Critics in every field of entertainment love products that the public don't, and vice versa. Only very rarely do the two groups agree (GTA being the shining example). Obviously, this is because reviewers are specialists and fanatics, they demand a thorough experience. Which brings us back to the fundamental issue, the thing that game reviewers forget time and time again:the public actually aren't that demanding. How else could you explain why Amityville Horror, a bland remake of an average seventies horror flick has just shot to number one in the US box office, grossing $23m in its opening weekend? The public don't want depth, they want polish, they want safe, recognisable brands, if possible tinged with nostalgia or coolness.This is why FIFA Street is number one. It hits all the right buttons. It is mainstream, but yet has an 'edge'. It has good graphics. It is fast enough to convince players that they are having a good time. And that empty feeling when all the bluster is over? When the lack of depth becomes apparent? It. Never. Comes. Because the mainstream consumer has rushed onwards. To another flashy, intensely marketed, brand-focused product. 'Kicking and squealing Gucci little piggies', as someone more bitter than I once put it.Mainstream buying habits masterclass (for those in any doubt)How videogame reviewers would like people to buy games1. Read reviews in dedicated videogame magazine 2. Make informed choice based on considerations of game depth 3. Go to independent game store and buy game 4. Play for many months, determined to wring every ounce out of the experienceHow peopleactuallybuy games1. View a range of brilliantly produced TV adverts, created using jump cuts of pre-rendered footage, perhaps showing the odd two or three micro-seconds of gameplay. 2. Choose a game that is attached to the most currently visible brand (at the moment that would be Dr Who, Frank Lampard and the Roman Catholic church) 3. Go into highstreet videogame chainstore where row upon row of shelving, as well as window areas and point-of-sale advertising space, has been bought up by the publisher of the game mentioned above. 4. Play alone for a few hours. Play for a few hours with mates. Consign to shelf, or return to highstreet videogame chainstore along with a couple of other neglected brand games, to trade them in for… FIFA Street.
One of my favourite things to do of an afternoon is to go to theTrocaderoin London and marvel at the mad skillz of theDance Dance Revolution(as it was formerly called) geeks as they do mental things with their feet on the floor controllers while remaining calm, cool and collected above the knees. Well, this one takes the cake. Check outthisvideo (.wmv) of some uber-childjuggling pinswhile playing on a totally extreme level.Now if only he was doing it backwards... Then he'd get some serious respect.viaBoingBoingandWonderland
EBay reported rapid growth in the first three months of the year last night, calming fears that the online auction firm could be hitting a wall.The firm posted first-quarter earnings of $256.3m (&#163;134m), up 28% on the same period in 2004. Revenues hit just over $1bn, up by 36%. EBay said 147 million people were registered to use the site last month, up from 105 million a year ago.Growth was fuelled by EBay's international divisions, with revenues 52% higher at $394m. The firm has invested heavily overseas and has sites in countries including Britain, South Korea, France, India, the Philippines and China.The company lifted its full-year revenue forecasts to between $4.27bn and $4.36bn. Meg Whitman, eBay's chief executive, said the firm had a "wonderful" first quarter.EBay is a rare success story from the internet gold rush of the late 1990s but it has fallen out of favour this year. It spooked investors with fourth-quarter results that showed growth slowing in its biggest markets, the United States and Germany. This sparked a sell-off of eBay shares - from $59 in January to a low of $31.58.Analysts were also concerned about plans to increase listing fees, which caused an outcry among long-time users. EBay makes most of its money from listing fees and taking a commission from each sale.The shares rose 3% yesterday and added three cents in after-hours trading to $33.12 when the results came out. It also reported strong gains at its PayPal online payment service, with revenues up 47%.Yahoo! reported first-quarter earnings more than doubling on rapid growth in advertising. Its shares rose 4.3% yesterday to $34.65. Google is due to report earnings tonight.
Computacenter, the British computer services group that sells IT services and PC equipment to companies and government departments, reported a 10% decline in sales last year, blaming "difficult" trading conditions.The company warned that profits would be substantially lower this year if sales do not improve.The surprise profit warning sent shares in the group falling 26p, almost 9%, to 264p, their lowest level this year.The company said a shift away from higher margin goods towards cheaper items such as laptops had hurt the business.In March the IT group   forecast flat revenues for 2005 due to price cuts.At that time, the company, whose customers include BT and airport operator BAA, said pre-tax profits before one-off items rose 3% to &#163;67.3m in the year to end December.
Necessity is the mother of invention, but money is a pretty good auntie. With this in mind, the government has just awarded &#163;6m to fund local councils' bright ideas for improving public services with IT. The cash will pay for work on everything from online cemeteries to community WiMax.Impressively, the 12 winning "e-innovation" ideas were picked from 280 proposals. This implies that two-thirds of the councils in England are nurturing brainwaves. More likely, given the state of local government finance, many submissions were desperate attempts to balance books by tapping a new source of Whitehall funding.However, the ideas that got through suggest a culture of innovative risk-taking at odds with our normal image of what goes on inside council IT departments.One project, led by Tamworth in Staffordshire, will investigate a way through the impasse of distrust and confusion about government agencies sharing citizens' personal data. The idea is for individuals to "self-administer" their data. Bristol meanwhile, plans to develop templates for blogs, e-petitions and other tools to help residents mount community campaigns. The London borough of Camden wants to involve citizens in the planning of new homes and public facilities with the help of virtual reality.The online cemeteries idea comes from Manchester, where the council plans to digitise its crumbling Victorian burial registers for the benefit of genealogists and historians. A consortium of authorities in London aims to investigate   whether the next generation wireless data network technology, WiMax, can help mobile workers on their daily rounds.Another consortium plans a multi-pronged investigation of open source software. It will create an open source academy to help share knowledge on the costs and benefits. Members should have plenty of raw material to contribute: lead authority Birmingham plans to convert 10% of its desktop systems to open source. No doubt IT companies on both sides of the debate will want to put their own spin on the academy's work.Government support for local e-innovation is welcome, with one caveat: recipients should not be able to tick a "no publicity" box. Experience with past programmes suggests that enthusiasm for publicity tends to evaporate when the   lessons learned are negative. Much of the fault lies with central government, which has to maintain a fiction that every project it funds is a resounding success, even if all the evidence points otherwise.This is wrong, for two reasons. One is that negative information can be valuable in its own right - if, for example, Manchester runs into trouble digitising its registers, other proprietors of Victorian cemeteries will want to know why. Also, publicising negative results may prevent mistakes being repeated a few years down the track.The whole point of government funding for R&amp;D is to allow innovators to test ideas that would be too risky for their own resources. If 100% of the projects funded by the e-innovation turn out to be worthwhile, then government has picked the wrong projects to fund.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The length of Upper Street, Islington, has been blanketed with free wireless internet access, courtesy of the local council. It is London's biggest hotzone, and typical of things happening around the world - though there is less agreement about who should pay for them. In a US city, for example, Islington's launch would cause political outrage, but in other countries, it would pass unnoticed. Finland, for instance, has hundreds of square kilometres of continuous Wi-Fi coverage in its major cities.In Islington's "Technology Mile", anyone with a Wi-Fi-enabled laptop can use the internet free - and thus get access to information about services on the council's sites. For those without laptops, Islington has put PCs in businesses including cafes and dental surgeries. "The project helps to meet e-government directives by providing free internet access to all," says the press release. Like Bristol's StreetNet, Islington's hotzone is backed by the local council.Hotzones are a great way to provide broadband access to wireless devices in urban areas. Wi-Fi access points can be installed close enough together to give full coverage, and uplinks to the net can be provided by DSL or wireless broadband. Continuous wireless coverage is a boon to local authorities in particular, as it lets them hook up CCTV cameras where they like. It also gives staff access to email and databases anywhere.Gung-ho US cities such as Philadelphia have gone far beyond what Islington has achieved, with a proposal for a 350-square kilometre network, but the model is the same. The local government sets up city-wide Wi-Fi "clouds" for its own use, then opens them up for access by citizens. Since these networks have already paid for themselves through public sector applications, and have spare bandwidth, the cities have found they can let the public on very cheaply - or free.The scheme lets cities - or areas such as Islington - promote them selves as an up-to-date environment for business. However, in the US, the idea has faced a backlash from telecoms operators, who claim public clouds are unfair to their businesses. Bills have been proposed in a dozen US states that would forbid cities to offer Wi-Fi services to citizens on the grounds that government should not compete with private enterprise.Supporters of municipal wireless say this is just special pleading on the part of the operators who have wired monopolies. US bloggers such as Esme Vos at MuniWireless (www.muniwireless.com) and Glenn Fleishman at Wi-Fi Net News (www.wifinetnews.com) argue strongly for municipal wireless."These are very disruptive, low-cost technologies, and it's not in the incumbent telecommunication companies' best interest to embrace them," venture capitalist Bill Gurley told the Houston Chronicle. "But these are technologies that can be very beneficial to communities."We are unlikely to see such fireworks in the UK. Islington is keeping its involvement in the Technology Mile low profile, at least until the election is over, when it will have a public launch."It is a very different economic and political landscape in Europe," says Marc Meyohas, chief executive of Cityspace, the company that built both Islington's hotzone and Bristol's StreetNet. "Councils are not providing networks that will compete with commercial operators. A few hotzones will not bring BT to its knees. The economic case is strong enough based on applications like wireless CCTV cameras and supporting mobile council employees."But some observers think that, even if they don't attract serious controversy, schemes such as the Technology Mile will be a short-lived phenomenon. "In the short term, it may be that no one creates much fuss," says Ross Pow, managing director of telecoms analyst Analysys, "but in the long term, politicians will ask why public money is being used to subsidise this service."Wireless networking would have to be seen as a public good before the council should add it to its services, alongside schools and rubbish collection, says Pow.Meanwhile, Scandinavian countries have raced ahead. Zonet, for example, provides access to an 800 square kilometre hotzone in the M&#228;nts&#228;l&#228; region of Finland - around the size of New York City - serving 60,000 people."Zonet is a group of operators that has created a roaming agreement, so users can roam from one city to another," says Angela Champness, chief executive of Radionet, which provided the equipment for Zonet. "Users buy a subscription to the service, and get guest access in other cities."Zonet was installed by the local power utility, says Champness: "They have a massive customer base, and can easily sell broadband internet access. It is complementary to their other business, and allows them to differentiate." One part of the network uses 90 base stations to cover 400 sq kilometres, she says.The technology of hotzones is less controversial. Wi-Fi is generally agreed to be the best access method. WiMax (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access) is emerging as the accepted method for uplinks, although the WiMax standards are not complete, so perhaps we should call it pre-WiMax."Wi-Fi in PDAs and phones is just starting to take off, and will be around for a long time," says Champness. "It will be Wi-Fi for access, for the foreseeable future, with WiMax for backhaul."Although Intel is proposing that WiMax should eventually be built into laptops, just like Wi-Fi, there may be so much Wi-Fi available that those radios will scarcely be used, adds Champness. "Mobile WiMax will play in vertical markets, where you need capacity and range".The Islington network uses multi-radio mesh equipment from US company BelAir. Each node has a Wi-Fi radio for access, and a pre-WiMax radio for mesh links, operating in unlicensed spectrum around 5GHz."Islington has eight units in total, connected with point-to-point links,"   says Phil Belanger, vice-president of marketing at BelAir. The products have been re-engineered to meet European radio specifications, he said.Belanger expects to see public access Wi-Fi spread, whether provided by councils or private enterprise. "I don't think politics will be a real obstacle," he says. "We work with big carriers, and they are all working on programs to do community deployments. It is going to happen."Telecoms operators will come in more enthusiastically when WiMax equipment is available for the licensed 3.5GHz spectrum. "Having something they control will make them comfortable with this system," says Belanger. "It will still be Wi-Fi at the edge."Pow and the rest agree the politics will eventually go away, as operators and councils converge on the idea of simply providing services. "We see it as a collaboration between public and private," says Champness. "There always needs to be an operator who runs the network."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Spirited stuffFreedom Force vs The Third ReichPC, &#163;29.99 Digital Jesters/ Irrational Games, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;It has taken a few years for Irrational Games to produce a sequel to Freedom Force, its original team-based role-playing game, but the continued antics of the 1950s-style superhero gang has been worth the wait.Even though the game's 3D engine, which lets you destroy buildings and wield lamp-posts as weapons, hasn't changed much, the game still feels fresh and lively. Much of this is down to the incredibly good storyline and characters. These capture the spirit of old-time superheroes so well that you can't help wondering why no one dreamt up the likes of Alcamiss and the Sky King as real comic book characters.The original cast is joined by new heroes such as the morbid Tombstone, Black Jack and the Green Genie. Together, they seek to thwart the evil plans of Blitzkrieg, an uber villain who has gone back in time and delivered Energy X (the source of powers) into the hands of the Nazis and thus turned the tide of the second world war.There has been a concerted effort to diversify the powers of the heroes, so it is not so much about how hard they can biff, but more about their strategic abilities, such as temporarily turning enemies into vases of flowers. Consequently, both single player and multiplayer battles feel a lot more rounded.Despite its linear nature, the game is very compelling, as is discovering the secret identities of your heroes. It is obvious that Irrational has had as much fun developing this game as you will have playing it.Rhianna PratchettWorthy allianceLego Star WarsPlayStation 2, Xbox, PC, GBA, &#163;39.99 Travellers Tales/Eidos, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The link between Lego and Star Wars has always sounded unlikely but it has definitely struck a chord with the public - the Lego reconstructions of vehicles and characters added a cuteness to science fiction's biggest franchise. But surely turning this alliance into a videogame would be a step too far?Not so. Developer Travellers Tales and struggling publisher Eidos deserve a lot of credit. This is a game that may be aimed at kids, but will find favour with adults. It mainly sticks to the action-adventure genre, and essentially lets you re-enact classic battles and sequences from Star Wars Episodes I to III - except the characters, machinery and furniture are made from virtual Lego.The game allows you to control a number of characters in each mission, each with different skills - Jedi, for example, can wield light-sabres and use the force to move objects and solve puzzles. This format is particularly good when played cooperatively, and it is easy for a second player to take control of a character at any point. Varied gameplay sequences, such as pod racing, are plentiful and challenging, and a Free Play mode offers replay value.One could criticise the game for being a bit short, but it should keep everyone happy until Episode III reaches cinemas.Steve BoxerPlaying hard to getThe Matrix OnlinePC, &#163;29.99 (plus &#163;9 monthly fee) Monolith/Sega, &#42;&#42;A year ago, it was acceptable to release a massively multiplayer online game half-finished. The audience for these titles were hardcore gamers used to the update cycle. But that has changed due to the enormous success of World of Warcraft, which has shattered sales records and dragged online role-playing games into the mass market. So the stakes have been raised for newcomers such as this.Set in the Matrix universe, the game offers fans of the film trilogy the chance to fulfil those leather trenchcoat fantasies. But while the sci-fi setting is a break from the fantasy norm, the genre conventions remain. Players can either be combat or support-focused, with character advancement attained by earning experience points. Combat is key, which is why the flaws are frustrating. Combatants can fire from range or go hand-to-hand. And while there are some lovely animations, they hinder the game.However, there is a lot of depth, with a stack of skills to learn. Unfortunately, numerous bugs and graphical glitches convey an unfinished feel. If you have been lured into the delights of online gaming via World of Warcraft, then you are better off staying where you are. This is only worth a look if you are a huge fan.Greg HowsonTop 5 gamesAll formats1Fifa Street2Midnight Club 3: Dub Edition3Doom 34Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory5Gran Turismo 4(Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, (c)2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd)&#183;Keep up with the latest from the gaming world with our Gamesblog atwww.blogs.guardian.co.uk/games&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
A timepiece that's worth watchingOver the past few years, we have seen watches with built-in MP3 players, cameras and even mobile phones. Now, the Japanese manufacturer NHJ has taken timepieces to another dimension with the VTV-201, the first watch to feature an integrated analogue terrestrial TV tuner. Calling the VTV-201 a watch is stretching it a little. Although it has time and date facilities, it is much bulkier than rival timepieces.The images on the 1.5in screen are what you'd expect - noisy, fairly dark and just about watchable. But there is no integrated speaker, so you have to listen to the broadcasts on not very high-quality earphones. Another disappointment is the one-hour battery life. Overall, however, especially given the price, the watch functions reasonably well. For football fans who can't get near a TV for next year's World Cup, the &#163;129.95 VTV-201 could fit the bill. Shame the battery will die before the final whistle blows.www.firebox.comAshley NorrisPersonal computersThe living is easyThis month, Alienware continues its campaign to reinvent the PC as a living room-friendly consumer electronics device with the launch of its DHS 2 Series models. The PCs, which sport a horizontal DVD-style design, include two TV tuners, hard disk video recording facilities and DVD record/playback. They are controlled via Microsoft's Windows Media Center XP 2005 operating system. They also feature a free electronic programming guide that enables users to schedule timed video recordings up to 14 days in advance. Other facilities include an HDTV 720p/ 1080i output, and compatibility with wireless systems and Microsoft's forthcoming Media Center Extender devices. Basic systems start at about &#163;1,200.www.alienware.co.ukMobile phonesMake light of itPanasonic has unveiled what it claims is one of the thinnest clamshell-style camera phones on sale. The X400, available via Vodafone and compatible with the network's Live! web portal, features a VGA camera with a self-portrait mirror, a 65k colour TFT screen, and Java for downloading games and ringtones. The handset weighs 86g and sports multimedia messaging capabilities, a speaker phone and voice recorder. Battery life is rated at up to 4.5 hours talk time and 210 hours standby. It retails for &#163;100 on a pre-pay contract with Vodafone.www.vodafone.co.ukAudio playersTakeaway tunesPhilips will launch a pair of digital music accessories next month. The SLA5500 to retail for about &#163;100, is a small audio device that enables users to wirelessly (using 802.11b/g) stream MP3 and WMA music from their PC to a hi-fi system/TV. It can also be used with wired Ethernet-based systems. Due later in May is the PSS110, retailing for &#163;100, which is a mini music system for travellers. It includes an FM radio, MP3/WMA playback, 256MB of internal Flash memory and integrated speakers. It can also be hooked up to external MP3/CD players.www.philips.co.ukBeat goes onToshiba has confirmed it is to bring its Gigabeat range of hard disk-based personal audio players to the UK in June. The models, which will be available in 10, 20, 40 and 60GB versions, all sport a 2.2in colour screen and boast about 16 hours of battery life. They play back MP3 and WMA files, and are compatible with the Napster To Go service, which requires a monthly subscription to download music. The top-end 40 and 60GB models come with a remote control incorporated into accompanying earphones. Prices range from &#163;200 for the 10GB model to &#163;300 for the 60GB version.http://gigabeat.toshiba.co.ukSplash outWaterproof MP3 players that attach to swimming goggles are back this summer, with two models lined up for a July release. The Ministry of Sound MOSMP016 features an FM tuner, compatibility with MP3 and WMA (including files downloaded from sites such as Napster 2.0), a backlit display and 265MB of storage.Meanwhile, Oregon Scientific is offering an upgraded version of its MP-120, the first MP3 player for swimmers that was launched last year. The new MP-120 is identical to its predecessor but offers 512MB of storage - four times as much as before. Neither company has announced price details.www.ministryofsound.com/audiowww.oregonscientific.co.ukCase in pointWhere iPod goes, so a legion of manufacturers must follow. An industry of iPod-related products is flourishing, and the latest are cases for the dinky iPod Shuffle. It is not clear why this tough little piece of plastic needs a protective coating, but cases can be important for giving personality to your plain white pod. Those wanting something functional might look at PodGear's silicon JumpSuit Shuffle, which comes in a variety of colours and protects it against "pocket rash". For something quirkier, try Wrappers. The company sells a variety of handmade cases for &#163;10 a pop.www.ipodworld.co.ukhttp://wrappers.typepad.com&#183;Contributions from Ashley Norris and Bobbie JohnsonStat of the weekMore unwanted spam email continues to be sent each year, but most users do not notice the difference. According to a study by Pew Internet, almost half of all users said they saw no change in the amount of spam sent to their personal email accounts.Level of spam over the last year:3% - don't know28% - has increased22% - has decreased47% - no change(Source - Pew Internet)&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
In 2003, the US state of Indiana put out to tender a contract to upgrade the state's computer systems that process unemployment claims. Tata America International, which is the US-based subsidiary of India's Tata Consultancy Services, bid $15.2m for the contract - $8.1m lower than did its closest rivals, the New York-based companies Deloitte Consulting and Accenture Ltd.In other words, an Indian consulting firm won the contract to upgrade the unemployment department of the state of Indiana. You couldn't make this up: Indiana was outsourcing the very department that would cushion the people of Indiana from the effects of outsourcing.But when, in 2004, word of the contract was made public, Republicans made it a campaign issue. It became such a political hot potato that Governor Joe Kernan, a Democrat, ordered the state agency, which helps out-of-work Indiana residents, to cancel the contract - and also to put up legal barriers to prevent such a thing happening again. The Indianapolis Star reported that a cheque for $993,587 was sent to pay off Tata for eight weeks of work, during which it had trained 45 state programmers in updating software.Who is the exploiter and who is the exploited in this India-Indiana story?The American arm of an Indian consulting firm proposes to save the taxpayers of Indiana $8.1m by revamping their computers - using both its Indian employees and local hires from Indiana. The deal would greatly benefit the American arm of the Indian consultancy; it would benefit some Indiana tech workers; and it would save Indiana state residents precious tax dollars that could be deployed to hire more state workers somewhere else, or build new schools that would permanently shrink its roles of unemployed. And yet the whole contract, which was originally signed by pro-labour Democrats, got torn up under pressure from free-trade Republicans.Sort that out.The India versus Indiana dispute highlights the difficulties in drawing lines between the interests of two communities that never before imagined they were connected, much less collaborators. But suddenly they each woke up and discovered that they were living in a flat world."Globalisation is the word we came up with to describe the changing relationships between governments and big businesses," says David Rothkopf, a former senior Department of Commerce official in the Clinton administration and now a private strategic consultant. "But what is going on today is a much broader, much more profound phenomenon."Whenever civilisation has gone through one of these disruptive, dislocating technological revolutions - like Gutenberg's introduction of the printing press - the whole world has changed in seismic ways. But the introduction of printing happened over a period of decades and for a long time affected only a relatively small part of the planet. Same with the Industrial Revolution. This flattening process is happening at warp speed and directly or indirectly touching a lot more people on the planet at once. The faster and broader this transition to a new era, the more likely is the potential for disruption, as opposed to an orderly transfer of power from the old winners to the new winners.Our old political reflexes no longer apply. If you are against globalisation because you think it harms people in developing countries, whose side are you on in this story: India's or Indiana's?
This week, Google unveiled a triple-play of new services aimed at British users: maps, local and SMS searching. Mirroring recent developments on the search engine's American site, the added functionality allows users to search for local services in a directory inquiries-style way ("shoe shops in Exeter"), as well as smart-looking and easily navigable maps.You can also send queries via a mobile (to 64664) and receive Google results on your phone for the price of a text message.The business listings are drawn from Yell.com and supplemented by Google web search links, but the map data is produced in partnership with two US companies, TeleAtlas and Navteq. It has produced some oddities and mistakes, "but it is absolutely joint work between our teams in London, New York and Mountain View," according to Kate Burns, managing director of advertising sales for Google UK.The presentation is very simple, and has been quickly exported here after Google realised that expanding localised searching could be very profitable. "People have already been using search engines to look for local information - they just haven't realised it," says Danny Sullivan, the editor of SearchEngineWatch.com.He believes search engines want to turn offline queries into online ones - and get advertisers to recognise the shift. "In the US experience, the reason these big engines are going after local searching is advertising. It's about getting people to use the engine rather than the Yellow Pages."The move to provide UK maps was very swift, considering Britain often lags behind its global competitors. Richard Boardman, a Google usability analyst, wrote on the company's official blog (www.google.com/googleblog) about "that feeling of being left out when new technology gets launched in the US before it reaches the rest of the world".Burns says this is changing: "We take it very seriously. The UK is a significant market outside the US."Rivals point out that there are many who provide similar UK services already. Yell, which is partnering Google for this service, recently relaunched, as did 192.com. There are also long-established sites, such as Multimap and Streetmap."We do some things much better than other services," says Alastair Crawford, founder of 192.com. "It's not just about directory inquiries for us, we aggregrate lots of data sets - Thomson, the electoral roll and census data. We don't really see Google as a direct competitor."But Google has strengths that may see it swat away opposition, such as its straightforward keyword searching and clean design."People are very familiar with the likes of Multimap, but Google maps are very compelling," says Sullivan.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
What is Moore's Law?Moore's Law (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moore's_law) was an article I wrote in response to a request to predict what was going to happen in semi-conductor components from 1965 to 1975. It was very early days for integrated circuits and the few that had been made were principally used in military systems where there weren't really cost concerns. There was an idea that integrated circuits were expensive.Has the military driven many computer advances?It was very important in the early days of integrated circuits when costs were very high - it is really the only cost-insensitive market. Until about 1964, the military was   an important customer but then the time frame of commercial business became much faster than military systems could change. Most modern military systems use very obsolete electronics.What was your original article trying to convey?The principal theme I wanted to get across was that integrated circuits were the route to inexpensive electronics. At the time of writing the article, the most complex circuit in production had about 30 components in it. One of about twice that complexity would be introduced within the next year. When I looked back, I noticed we'd doubled the circuitry every year, so I took this and extrapolated for the next 10 years, saying the complexity of integrated circuits would go from 60 components to something like 60,000 on a chip. It was pretty wild but it got the idea across that by mak ing complex circuits the cost of individual circuit elements could drop dramatically.In the 60s did you foresee the profusion of home computers?When I reread my 1965 article I was surprised to see I'd predicted home computers as one of the uses of low-cost electronics. I guess I did anticipate home computing although I had no idea what it would look like, and I had forgotten that prediction by the time the personal computer came along. I'm using a Centrino laptop (www.powernotebooks.com/centrino.php) now. At Intel, where I was chief executive, the replacement cycle is generally two to three years, and I still participate in that.Will Moore's Law last another 40 years?I wish I could be around to see what happens - I think the technology that is going to develop will be   mind-boggling. I can see the next two or three generations of technology likely staying true to the law, and that is as far as I have ever been able to see.Voice recognition?Language recognition intrigues me, although we're still a long way from having good language recognition where the computer starts understanding in context whether you mean "two", "to" or "too". I think once that happens you can start to have an intelligent conversation with your computer and that will dramatically change the way they are used.Is the race to produce the fastest processor a constructive one?I think competition is always good - it makes progress happen more rapidly.&#183;Interviewed by Hamish MackintoshVisit:www.intel.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Maybe it's the breakdown of family units, or that the past seems less frightening than the future, but Britons remain intent on mapping their family history. And rather than trudging to the Family Records Centre in London, these retrospective ramblers are finding all they need to know online.The number of people visiting UK family history websites increased by 6.6% in the year to January, from 1.5m to 1.6m, according to Nielsen data. And while genealogy remains a specialist web activity - ranking, says Nielsen, behind search and travel - UK users are among the most dedicated to this hobby, along with those in Australia, France and the US. So what are the best sites for your search?&#183;The UK's top-ranking site,www.genesreunited.co.uk(formerly Genes Connected), a spin-off from Friends Reunited, is a collection of family trees uploaded by amateur genealogists. These history hungry hobbyists have built webs of ancestry from family lore, official records and clues on other such sites.Martine Parnell, head of Genes Reunited, says: "The success of the site is down to its members", of which there are more than 2.5m, who have entered more than 30m names. Parnell says the site has "kept a community spirit" akin to its democratic search policy, and is free to members who want an online home for their family tree.In the past year, the site has also been simplified to make it easier for first time genealogists - and first time internet users. To cross-reference with other family trees, you can use a search facility that checks if they hold names you are looking for. A new technology called Namex also looks for similarly spelt names. The only cost is a &#163;9.50 annual fee to access other users' email addresses and make this virtual search a reality.&#183;www.ancestry.com(which includes Ancestry.co.uk), the second most popular site in Nielsen's ranking, has a database of more than 275m names, with the 1901, 1891, 1881 and 1871 censuses, and civil and ecclesiastical records dating to the 1500s. It is free to search for an ancestor's name, but costs &#163;6 to view a record, &#163;59.95 a year or &#163;24.95 a quarter.&#183;Others in the top five arewww.rootsweb.com, which offers free access to records;www.familysearch.org, the site of the Mormons, the first people to enter register information online; andgenuki.org.uk, run with the Federation of Family History Societies (www.ffhs.org).&#183;Sites with regularly updated content, such as1837online.com, are also popular with new users. At the beginning of March, they were the first to make the 1861 census for England and Wales available online. So far, it covers London, Kent, Surrey, Middlesex and Essex.Since August, relatives of serving army, navy or air forces personnel in the first and second world wars have also been able to search birth, marriages and deaths records on1837online.com. Colin Miller, head of operations, says: "Our research shows that 54% of the British public want to research their family tree, and when you combine this with the number of people who have ancestors who, as young men and women, had to go to war, this unique online search facility becomes so useful."It is free to register and to search the A to Z list of civil registers. But to view a record's image, which is the exciting bit, you have to download a DjVu Viewer Plug-in and buy credits. Charges range from 5p to 30p a search, with a minimum &#163;5 fee.The site has seen new registrations per day quadruple since April last year, many of them thanks to the success of the BBC genealogy series, Who Do You Think You Are?, which attracted 5.6m viewers. A second series is also planned. Traffic towww.bbc.co.uk/history, including a family history section and search facility Bloodlines, more than doubled in the first week of broadcast."We saw a massive increase when that was on," says an 1837online.com spokesperson. And so did the General Register Office (www.gro.gov.uk/gro/content/certificate), the official site that sells certificates, which was forced to issue a statement saying online orders were being delayed because requests had surged during the broadcast.But how do you know the information you find online is trustworthy? Jeremy Palmer, registrar at the Institute of Heraldic and Genealogical Studies (www.ihgs.ac.uk), says much of it is limited and unreliable because transcribers copying records have made mistakes. "We are finding that the interest in the subject &#91;online&#93; is growing, but by the same token, more are becoming stuck and more need professional help," he says.Inaccuracies may also arise because people gave false information at a census or failed to appear. Nick Barratt, genealogist on Who Do You Think You Are?, says: "If you can't find your relative where you think they should be, try looking in parishes across a wider area, or use addresses contained in ... certificates to assist with your research."And skeletons in relatives' closets - such as sexual infidelities - could also lead to you barking up the wrong family tree.But Helen Tovey, from Practical Family History magazine, is positive about the merit of online searches after an important development in recent years: genealogy sites have started to include scanned images of original documents as well as transcriptions. "This ... seems to be the trend. Having copies of the original documents and records online is excellent news for online genealogists, as it means the records they are looking at are reliable."There are so many genealogy sites that looking for blasts from your past can be a lengthy, and costly, process. So before handing over money, ensure a site has the information you want. Join newsgroups, genealogy societies and e-newsletters, and get your relatives involved. The race to find your family's roots should, after all, bring you closer together.National Archiveswww.nationalarchives.gov.ukPalaeography tutorialwww.nationalarchives.gov.uk/palaeographyNick Barratt's Top 10 tipswww.1837online.com/Trace2web/media/articles/toptentips.jspSociety of Genealogistswww.sog.org.ukFamily Tree Magazine and Practical Family History magazinewww.family-tree.co.ukLinks to genealogy siteswww.cyndislist.comPublic libraries guidewww.familia.org.ukAfrican, Caribbean or mixed ancestrywww.EveryGeneration.co.ukJewish, Asian, Irish and Caribbean immigrantswww.movinghere.org.ukScotland's Peoplewww.scotlandspeople.gov.ukLost cousinswww.lostcousins.comFind genetic health problemswww.norwichunion.com/healthtree&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
This week, Moore's Law reached its 40th birthday. Well, it's 40 years since Electronics magazine published an article by Gordon Moore, co-founder of Intel, entitled Cramming more components on to integrated circuits.Moore had noticed that the number of components on a chip had doubled, from 30 to 60, in a year. "Over the longer term," he wrote, "the rate of increase is a bit more uncertain, although there is no reason to believe it will not remain nearly constant for at least 10 years. That means by 1975, the number of components per integrated circuit for minimum cost will be 65,000."Today, the number of transistors on a microprocessor can reach about 1.7bn. Moore didn't call his observation a "law" - it wasn't, and never has been. He didn't say it would last forever - exponential growth never does. He didn't say microprocessor clock speeds would double every 18 months - microprocessors hadn't been invented. He didn't say anything about disk drives or other things that have also enjoyed exponential growth in the past four decades.None the less, the very idea of Moore's Law had a number of dramatic effects. For one thing, it became a self-fulfilling prophecy. Chip manufacturers working on projects that took three or four years to complete had a target: they knew more or less what they would have to achieve for their products to be competitive.It also enabled hardware and software designers, and even users, to embark on projects that might not make commercial sense at the time - or were actually impossible - but would become feasible and affordable if the chip manufacturers kept delivering more and more power on schedule.And they have, very roughly, tracked Moore's law as he revised it in 1975, to say that the number of components on a chip would double every two years instead of every year. In a conference call last week, Moore said: "I have been amazed that we've been able to keep it going so long. I never expected to predict so far in the future."What will happen in 10 or 20 years, when chip miniaturisation bumps up against fundamental limits? We don't know. However, Ray Kurzweil has observed that Moore's Law is just one example of what he calls The Law of Accelerating Returns. Earlier technologies such as mechanical calculators, and valve-based and transistor-based computers also followed Moore's Law, redefined to mean "increased computational speed per unit cost".Kurzweil plotted 49 machines and was surprised to find that "what I got was another exponential curve. In other words, there's exponential growth in the rate of exponential growth. Computer speed (per unit cost) doubled every three years between 1910 and 1950, doubled every two years between 1950 and 1966, and is now doubling every year."It remains to be seen what, if anything, will start to take over from integrated chips in around 2019. Current "new technologies" such as quantum computing don't look promising. However, lots of people must have thought chips didn't look promising in 1965.LinksGordon Moore on the anniversaryhttp://news.zdnet.com/2100-9584_%2022-5669102.htmlElectronics articlewww.intel.com/research/silicon/mooreslaw.htmWikipediahttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moore's_lawThe Law of Accelerating Returns by Ray Kurzweilwww.kurzweilai.net/articles/art0134.html?printable=1&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
The digital jihad waged by the music and film industries against those swapping copyright material online has taken a nasty turn, and every internet user - whether or not they have ever listened to an MP3 file - is likely to suffer as a consequence. After knocking out Napster, whose centralised index servers made it easy to identify what copyright material was being swapped and by whom, the companies moved on to attack the peer-to-peer (P2P) networks, such as Gnutella, Grokster and KaZaA, which took its place.Now, they have another file-sharing technology in their sights: BitTorrent. But BitTorrent is different. Unlike other P2P systems, which offer easy ways of finding things, BitTorrent has no in-built listing or search facility.It is simply a technology for sending and receiving data - more internet than Google. Nor are you expected to share your collections of files: you need only make available what you are trying to download from other BitTorrent users.This is simpler than it sounds, since BitTorrent breaks up a file into hundreds or even thousands of small pieces. These are distributed from one or more initial sources - known as "seeds " - around the "swarm " of people trying to download that same file. Once some of these pieces have been sent out, the members of the swarm begin swapping them among themselves. This makes BitTorrent extremely efficient - far more than any other P2P technology.By spreading the load widely, bandwidth to key download locations is freed up. In fact, BitTorrent is exactly how the internet should be used.When you have fully downloaded a file using the BitTorrent system, you are strongly encouraged to make it available to others in the swarm for some time afterwards - to become a seed. Those who don't - and therefore abuse the BitTorrent system - are known as "leeches ".The decision about how long to leave a file available, and what to make available, is up to the individual. People can promote good programs by seeding them for long periods,and help weed out sub-standard software by reducing its availability via BitTorrent. In this sense, BitTorrent encourages a highly discriminating, almost moral attitude,to file sharing, unlike other P2P systems, which are much more promiscuous.Perhaps the most important reaseon why BitTorrent must not be marginalised or forced underground is that it is emerging as one of the principal ways of distributing open source software, especially for the archetypal bedroom  programmers,who cannot afford vast server farms with fat pipes to distribute and update code that may be used by millions.The attempts to demonise BitTorrent are sending the wrong signal to ordinary users,who should be encouraged to try it, not frightened off by the threat of lawsuits.The internet would run more smoothly, and more people could benefit from free software. Music and film distributors should address the fundamental issues that drive millions of customers to turn to it for file sharing in the first place. BitTorrent is not a problem, but part of the solution.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Dangerous movesIt is completely unacceptable to include an article in your paper that not only informs readers of where to illegally share files but actively encourages it (Fair share, April 14). BitTorrent is responsible for losing the entertainment industry millions of pounds and you have the responsibility as a respected newspaper to both inform of its dangers and point to its numerous copyright infringements. Are we to expect in next week's supplement on homes a guide to the best way to break into a bungalow, or perhaps how to steal a car in your driving supplement?Jed BenedictLondonSleep soundlyImagine this scenario: every weekend lots of people go into their local record shop, choose the CDs they want, tear off the security tags and walk out. Now there is a new way to do this, where you can get more CDs at once. Would you print an article that described how to do this?As well as encouraging illegal behaviour, the article is the sort of ammunition the powers that be need to both close down BitTorrent. This would be a shame, for its great legitimate use is in open source software collaboration - and also to impose even more restrictive digital rights management on law-abiding music lovers. My advice: buy the CD and shop around online. Then rip it yourself, but don't share it. And sleep at night.Alan HaighWatfordSpin a tuneYour story (The internet DJ, April 14) about people posting MP3 songs on their blogs was very interesting. For those with a serious interest in spinning their own tunes, operations such as Live365.com offer to host streaming internet radio for a modest monthly fee. The copyright considerations have been worked out, putting limits on what the DJ can put out (although I wonder if the rules can be enforced).Ron EvettMassachusettsPay the bloggersI feel record companies are too greedy and receive more than substantial profits for the music produced. Blogs help increase awareness of artists to an audience that would not normally get to listen to their music. They should pay bloggers rather than try to shut them down.Andy WaughLeedsSlow convertIn my experience, the Mustek H140 personal media player (What's new, April 14) sucks. From the dreadful software - which never did work on my PC and is reported to take 10-14 hours to convert 90 minutes of video - to the lipsync problem on playback and pathetic customer support.Jeff TannerMilton KeynesQuality controlWikipedia was not the first free encyclopedia on the web (Talk time, April 14). I started the Spartacus Educational Encyclopaedia (www.spartacus.schoolnet.co.uk) in September 1997. It is still free and gets 6m page impressions a month.John SimkinWorthingRunning on anythingJack Schofield's revelation (Column, April 14) that his new PC is faster and cheaper than his old one is undoubtedly fascinating, but is the environmentally friendly Guardian happy that he recommends buying a new machine rather than upgrading an old system? There's no excuse for supporting the tendency of manufacturers to make upgrades unnecessarily difficult.The open source movement runs on just about any old box you find, with its old disks, network cards, video cards etc. It also supports, easily and straightforwardly, the upgrading to newer releases. The proprietary software world seems much less able (or committed) to making this happen.Ian ReissmannHenley-on-ThamesThat's the spiritWhen living in Vancouver, it was great to be able to book swimming lessons online (A league of their own, April 14). However, it is wrong to put the quality of online services down to remoteness. Coquitlam, home of the CitySoup example, has a huge Ikea branch. It's more likely because there's still some pioneer spirit about.Simon PavittSheffieldBlogBack: what our readers sayRupert Murdoch has said he got it wrong in regards to digital media (Onlineblog, April 15). You have to wonder if he was aware of the great efforts of some US newspapers to utilise the digital medium. Look at the New York Times and the array of digital features it offers. There are plenty of other examples: I can even download a podcast from the Wall Street Journal. In fact, I am beginning to think it's the blogs that are in danger of being superseded, not the papers.www.psfk.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Even George Bush is paranoid about sending email. At a recent briefing with newspaper editors, he was asked about implications of the US's Freedom of Information Act. He remarked that he doesn't send emails to his family for fear of them ending up in the wrong hands. The leader of the free world is like the rest of us - our attitude to email usage is influenced by the insecurity of the networks we are using.The IT director at the White House may have been dismayed to hear the president's comment. The reality is that most large companies and government organisations here and in the US have fairly well defined security policies, and these include staff guidelines that take into account compliance with the Data Protection Act and the Freedom of Information Act, as well as the need to keep all kinds of data secure. As such, they are designed to protect both the organisation and the rights of the individual user.But among small and medium-sized companies, organised security policies are not the norm. According to industry experts, many firms still have patchwork policies that are inadequate in the light of today's security threats, whether internal or external. Not surprisingly, security firms also see this weakness as an opportunity to sell new solutions.It is all too easy to find holes in most firms' defences. These range from allowing staff to transfer data on to USB keys (memory drives the size of lighters) to not controlling who has the authority to send out confidential information via an email attachment.The problem for firms is that the scope of a security policy has grown exponentially over the past few years. It must seek to minimise any risks as well as comply with legal, statutory, regulatory and/or contract requirements. But at the same time, it must not unnecessarily hamper normal daily work.The policy should determine which technology is applied to specific areas of weakness - notably in relation to spam, viruses and data theft. Ian Kilpatrick, managing director of security specialists Wick Hill Group, says firms wrongly hope they can buy one simple solution: "Most firms want to buy a box known as a security appliance that can do most of what they want, but they shouldn't   really buy kit until they know what their policy is. That way they can educate staff better and manage risk across the whole company."A key problem is that staff are often unaware of "acceptable use" policies that specify what they can and cannot do. Larger firms are now beginning to benefit from automated software that tests user awareness. PolicyMatters from Extend Technologies is typical of this new policy management software. It periodically presents each user with a small test to see if they understand the firm's policy. Failure to answer most of the questions correctly leads to being locked out of the network.Sue Beesley, commercial director of Network Defence, says such tools will become vital: "It's no use having the policy on paper nowadays, you have to ensure it is really understood."Another area of concern is staff working remotely. David MacFarlane, business development director of Sirocom, a virtual network operator, says that keeping protective software on laptops updated is a headache many firms have not tackled. "We use a system to check out any laptop connecting to a company network every time it is connected," he says. "It spots if a laptop hasn't been updated, say, in the case of someone going on holiday."Sirocom uses a service called Endpoint Policy Management from iPass, which has been developed specifically to let IT staff enforce the proper configuration and use of security software, automatically update OS security patches and anti-virus definition files on remote devices, and centrally manage policy enforcement.Meanwhile, email security firms are ramping up the sophistication of how policies can be applied to email filtering. Examples include only allowing designated people to send outgoing emails containing financial information, and monitoring the content of any emails staff send using web-based services such as Microsoft's Hotmail and Google's Gmail.But experts recognise that firms learn as they grow: marketing consultancy Grant Butler Coomber is a classic example. GBC has gradually bolted on more security to cope with new threats, but has also found that you have to fine tune whatever protection and written policies you have. "We decided to use a managed service to filter email but found that the filter on attachments was blocking important attachments we sent to clients. So we created a list of client emails so they could be treated differently as approved," says the firm's financial controller, Amya Reeves.GBC also found that instant messaging was reducing productivity and amended company policy to stamp it out. "The best thing we did was get our IT manager to create a policy of data-cleaning all our 24 desktops once a week. This ensures we destroy any spyware or viruses and stops IM software being loaded," says Reeves. "We have also saved ourselves time by developing acceptable use policies around templates provided by our industry association."As firms begin to benefit from more automation of policy management, IT security is expected to gain a higher profile, and the George W Bush approach to personal email could become the norm.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Mobile Games Analyst, a fortnightly research service for the telecomms industry, has studied the mobile game download charts for the last year and come up with some surprising findings. It seems that mobile gamers are distinctly unimpressed by big movie and TV licences, prefering to spend their download cash on nostalgic classics and new mobile titles, such as Iomo's Pub series.Here's what the press release says...MGA's research findings also cast doubt on the wisdom of publishers paying inflated licensing fees to secure movie-related brands. Of the 47 games that charted during the 12-month period, just two - Digital Bridges' The Fast And The Furious and Jamdat's Lord Of The Rings: Return Of The King - were based on movies, and both spent just a single month on the chart.Meanwhile, the success rate of console brands was patchy. Some console brands, such as Digital Bridges' FIFA Football and Tiger Woods 2004, and Gameloft's Splinter Cell: Pandora Tomorrow performed well, but others - including Wonderphone's Crash Nitro Kart and Sorrent's DRIV3R - spent just a single month on the chart."The poor performance of movie-related brands and some of the console ports indicates that games companies can no longer afford to rely on brands alone to achieve sustainable sales," says Pamela Clark-Dickson, editor of MOBILE GAMES ANALYST. "Investment in the development of original IP will likely accelerate in the short-to-medium term, particularly with the increased commitment to mobile of video-games publisher Electronic Arts, which has already stated its intention to create original mobile games."Okay, so the most successful downloads included Pac-Man and Tetris, but right up there was Pub Pool, a great little pool sim blatantly not based on a movie, TV show or current console brand.Of course, there's every possibility that, when the big videogame publishers realise they can't get away with lazy conversions, they'll just abandon the mobile platform altogether, scratching their heads in bemusement. Let's hope, instead, that they set up dedicated development teams (hey, we're talking six people at the most) and start really investigating what people want from mobile games. Or more pertinently, how to get more people to want mobile games. Because shoving some lobotomised mini conversion onto the platform and hoping the kids are dumb enough to download it is clearly NOT WORKING.Here is the proof. Read it and weep. And when you've finished weeping, start writing some decent games.
"As security bugs swarm around the Firefox browser, volunteer marketers want to shore up the open-source project's security message," reportsCNet.With Monday's reports of the Mozilla Foundation's patches for significant new security holes that could let attackers install malicious code or steal personal data, Firefox partisans are finally acknowledging that the core sales pitch for their browser may be vulnerable."The versions of Firefox up to version 1.0.3 have had terrible security risks," wrote one participant for the volunteer Firefox promotion, Spread Firefox. "I think these security risks have undermined the promise of Firefox as a more secure browser.""The Mozillazine discussion is one of many that have sprung up on Slashdot and other forums after recent columns inInformationWeekand in theIT Observerquestioned Mozilla's security superiority," says the article.
Today'sFT.com / Financial Times IT review(all the articles are subscription-only) carries "Five to watch in the brave new internet world".It marks out a handful of technologists as representing a new generation of internet entrepreneurs and investors.Who are they?First off there'sBram Cohen, the "mildly autistic college drop-out who... has Hollywood studios running scared", because he invented BitTorrent, the revolutionary peer to peer technology.There'sJoi Ito, the Japanese venture capitalist and trendspotter who has a stake in the likes of Flickr, Technorati and SocialText.They also big upOperafounderJon von Tetzchnerwho is making great leaps forward in mobile browsing, andChen Tianqiao, who is being touted as the "Chinese Bill Gates".Finally, there's a space forNiklas Zennstr&amp;umlo;m, the chief executive ofSkype, the VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) firm. The FT says that his background with KaZaA means that his inclusion "should surprise nobody", since he's "at the cutting edge of distruptive technology threatening to change the telecommunications world forever".Who would be on your list of technologists to watch? Where are the exciting developments, and who has their finger on the pulse?
Gadzooks, for all Massively Multiplayer Online Game virtual trade aficionados, here's one that should set the cobbles on fire. Sony Online Entertainment, once the staunch objector to the buying and selling of EverQuest items for real money over eBay and other auction sites, appears to have made a cautious and controlled 180 degree turn on the matter.Ren Reynoldsinformed me ofthis announcement, sent over the digital waves by John Smedley (President, SOE) which states, in simple terms, that from June EverQuest 2 will feature player-determined servers which allow virtual trading.So as a player, if you have a bit of real cash lying around in your bank account and really want to be a level 50 character in EQ2, you'll no longer need to deal with shifty chancers; you can advance through the game instantly with the security of knowing that the SOE Customer Service Team will be there to support you through the process."Station Exchange" is being implemented in order to cut out the illegal trading and end-user sucker-punching that regularly occurs in current virtual/real world financial exchanges. This kind of virtual trade occurs across all games, but to date onlySecond Lifehas installed the official OK. All others are staunchly opposed to it, but the virtual world market commands upwards of $200 million per year.Now EQ2 players who wish to trade will be able to, using the Station Exchange system to "legally" buy and sell their in-game products. Theoretically (although I'm not so sure about this bit), it will allow players who don't want play with "eBayers" or don't want to be excluded from certain areas by robots farming them, to enjoy the game on servers without trading. It's also going to save the 40% of Customer Service hours which are spent dealing with "misplaced" swords which were "lost" during un-supported activity.Indeed, further reading between the lines makes it obvious that this isn't an altruistic endeavour. As Daniel Terdiman atWiredexplains,SOE claims the auction site is primarily about offering players a safe and secure marketplace for buying and selling virtual goods. But the company readily acknowledges the new system could bring in hefty new revenues.Furthermore, it appears they may be piloting the programme for a potential new MMOG-style release.As expected, theTerra Novancrew (Ren amongst them) are already debating this sanction, and I heartily recommend you go there and check it out.While there's commentary a'plenty from the usual suspects, there's not a lot of player-contribution to the debate, as Castronova on Terra Nova points out. Is Sony's pseudo entry into the virtual trade market giving the nod towards in-game cheating or is virtual trade something that makes the game more interesting?
I'm sure you, like me, are hyperactive with excitment over the announcement of a new Pope.Maybe not.There's one man who is, though: Floridian Rogers Cadenhead, who recently bought the domain namewww.benedictxvi.com.Wired News has more:In an interview shortly after Ratzinger's announcement Tuesday, Cadenhead said the purchase of the domain name was more of an educated guess than divine guidance.Newly elected popes often take the names of previous popes in honor of them. So when media reports last month revealed that Pope John Paul II was in his final hours, Cadenhead worked out the possible names that the new pope might select and set out to buy those domains. He ended up buying six in all -- including ClementXV.com, InnocentXIV.com, LeoXIV.com, PaulVII.com and PiusXII.com. Some domains, like JohnPaulIII.com and JohnXXIV.com, already were taken.Cadenhead, a technical writer who was raised Catholic, said he bought the domains as a game -- not as a way to make money by cybersquatting. Besides, he added, "If I didn't do it, someone less reputable would."Quite why it's a game to buy six domains is beyond me, but fair play to him it's his moment in the sun.
I've never quite understood the BlackBerry phenomenon (I think there are at least a few times in a man's life when he *doesn't* need email) but it continues apace.Now Microsoft are getting IM and presence enabled for BlackBerry users, saysComputer Business Review:The deal ... with RIM means its devices will now be able to connect to a Microsoft Office Live Communications Server 2005 (LCS) for IM and presence services, which makes the BlackBerry more attractive by extending its features beyond email. This is in line with the company's overall strategy of broadening its offer beyond its area of core competence.As for Microsoft, the deal represents another reason for companies to buy LCS licenses, said Neil Laver, head of sales and marketing for Microsoft's Real Time Collaboration Group in the UK.So you'll be able to IM from your BlackBerry, if your company has the right gubbins. But what about IM and email on phones? When will they really take hold?
Keith - I know you love your mobile games, but to me they've always been little more than a mindless distraction between real games (i.e. PC/console). But a little lookie at some of I-Play's games has changed my mind a little.Nate Adams Freestyle Motocross, which reminded me of 80s budget stormerKickstart, had a impressive physics engine which gave a subtlety more usually associated with console games. Jewel Quest was an addictive version of the casual gaming webgame, but the most enjoyable and instant hit wasSkipping Stones- a one button treat that will be good fun on the tube. Don't ditch the DS or PSP just yet, but clearly there is some interesting mobile stuff out there.
Video game retailer Game Group yesterday defended its position as an independent company on the high street after the recent collapse of takeover talks.The chief executive, Martin Long, said: "We are very confident in the future of our business." The company reported annual pre-tax profits of &#163;31.9m, up from &#163;24.3m in the previous year.Game admitted on Monday that talks with an unnamed bidder, announced last month, had collapsed, sending shares down almost 20%.The statement coincided with news that American games retailer GameStop had bought rival Electronics Boutique for $1.44bn (&#163;750m) in cash and shares. GameStop is believed to have been Game's unnamed suitor.The ending of talks has led some in the industry to believe that Game could be targeted by other predators as it faces increased competition from general retailers.Mr Long said he did not believe that the business was vulnerable. "We can compete with anyone else on the high street in selling games," he said.
Marks &amp; Spencer moved to overhaul its website and ordering service yesterday after announcing a tie-up with Amazon, the online retailer.Amazon, which already runs bookseller Waterstones' website, will be responsible for the technology behind the systems.M&amp;S has three separate systems for ordering goods: in-store, over the telephone and on the internet. Amazon   will create a new service that links the three and allows customers to track in-store orders over the telephone or by looking on the website.Changes to the site will include better graphics and search facilities. Unlike the deal with Waterstones, where Amazon provides the goods as well as the technology behind the website, M&amp;S will be responsible for managing the site, customer service operations, warehousing and distribution.Steven Sharp, director of marketing and e-commerce at M&amp;S, said the company's ordering services had yet to reach full potential.
