The return of Marillion to the upper reaches of the pop charts must have ranked as one of the unlikeliest rock revivals in recent times. And yet, there they were, sitting at No 2 in the brand new official download chart last week - not bad for a band that split with their record company more than three years ago.Still, you are unlikely to hear the veteran rockers on the official chart show. Despite being the highest new entry of the week (two places above Christina Aguilera) and the highest placing of any independent artist since the chart was established, Radio 1 refused to play the new single on last Wednesday's official download show. When asked why, a spokesperson for the station said: "The official chart show is not a format that requires you to play every song ... but if it gets to No 1 we will have to play it."Launched on September 1, the Official UK Download Chart is compiled from sales of "permanently owned single track downloads" taken from a range of providers, including iTunes, Napster and the mobile operator O2. The chart does not take into account "streamed" downloads or bootleg audio files pulled from the controversial file-sharing networks, such as KaZaA and eDonkey.To Marillion, success in the download chart is nothing too surprising, as the net has given them succour since 1997. Then, the band - once described as sounding like Led Zeppelin orchestrated by Schubert - were on the verge of implosion.Marillion had lost their frontman Fish and hadn't toured the US for five years. They were projecting a loss of $60,000 (&#163;32,600) if they did tour. Most bands would have packed it in and avoided the Spinal Tap-like fall into disgrace. But acting out of either desperation or foresight (possibly both), the band put a call out via their brand new website - Marillion were practically the first rock act on the web - asking fans to stump up the shortfall for the tour. To their surprise, thousands did and the tour went ahead."That's when we first understood   the power of the internet and how important it was going to become," explains Steve Rothery, Marillion's 45-year-old guitarist. "I don't think this band would exist if it wasn't for that."Then, in 2001, the band found themselves without a record deal. Another appeal went out, this time to fund the recording of their 12th studio album. The band emailed 30,000 of their fans and were "overwhelmed" with the response. In just three weeks, enough fans offered to pre-pay for the album, to the tune of &#163;100,000 and, in doing so, allowed their idols the freedom to produce the album they wanted and hold on to the rights to their new music.It is tempting to see Marillion's revival as the first real indicator that the music download market will behave quite unlike its older sibling. Indeed, an intriguing cover version by William Shatner, of Common People, the song made famous by Pulp, made the download top 10 two weeks ago but is yet to grace the traditional top 40.The question is, as the download chart matures, could we see more independent acts emulate Marillion's success? At present, big independent acts, such as Franz Ferdinand, Moloko and Elvis Costello, remain outside the reaches of the new chart as each has yet to sign a deal with Apple's iTunes, by far the dominant provider in the digital download marketplace.The hope for acts such as Marillion - and others shorn of major label   backing and Radio 1 playlisting - is that the new download chart symbolises a democratic future where independents can cut it alongside acts with industry backing. True, the nascent download chart makes up a thin sliver of traditional single sales (about 3% of sales, according to Rothery), but then again, it is growing astonishingly quickly.According to the British Phonographic Industry, 175,000 downloaded tracks are being sold every week in the UK, compared with around 450,000 singles. The disparity is caused by the far wider selection of downloadable tracks available on the internet, when compared with singles sold in record shops, with the bulk of the online sales weighted towards older tracks."If you mobilise your fan base, bands such as Marillion can make the charts just as much as major label acts," says Paul Clifford, of the Official Charts Company. "In the first week, Westlife had a very similar strategy and they got to No 1."This week, DJ Chris Moyles releases a download single on behalf of the charity Comic Relief. It is likely to be the first Christmas No 1 in the new chart. But, according to Clifford, the download chart might not be around in standalone form for much longer. As sales increase, the ultimate aim, he says, is to fold download sales into the chart proper, possibly as early as next year. In the meantime, sit back, relax and enjoy the anomalies while you can.
Two years ago, when Microsoft unveiled its Smartphone 2002 operating system for mobile phones, it looked as if the company was overreaching itself. The handsets were clunky, the software unreliable and the phones' batteries had to be recharged on a daily basis.Now, however, when both corporate buyers and consumers go shopping for smartphones, they can no longer afford to ignore the products in the Windows portfolio."The phone that changed my mind about Microsoft was the Orange SPV C500," explains Shaun Marin, editor of Smartphone magazine. "It had all the applications like Word and Outlook that were familiar from my PC. But they integrated it into a handset that was not only ultra thin and small, but thanks to its well-designed buttons, very simple to use, too."The SPV C500 isn't the only big-selling Microsoft handset of the year. O2 claims that its XDA II PDA/phone hybrid cornered a third of the UK wireless handheld market within six months of its launch.The success of the XDA II hasn't escaped the attention of other networks. Vodafone, Orange, T-Mobile and O2 will all launch versions of its successor next month. Manufactured by HTC of Taiwan, the device adds Wi-Fi and integrated keyboard to what is essentially the bare bones of the Xda II and will be called XDA IIs (O2), MDA III (T-Mobile), VPA III (Vodafone) and M2000 (Orange).There will also be a rash of new Microsoft-based phones appearing in stores over the next few months, including models from Motorola (MPx220), Sagem (myS-7) and several from newcomers i-mate.With such an impressive array of phones, will Microsoft pose a significant threat to Symbian and, in particular, models such as the Nokia 9500 Communicator and Sony Ericsson P910? There is no denying that the Symbian handsets have the edge in terms of efficiency and battery life. There is also a good selection of Symbian 3G phones either already on sale or on the horizon, while Microsoft has yet to make any inroads in the area."All the money is being made out of 2.5G (GPRS)," says Duncan Ledwith, head of Windows Mobile in the UK, "so that is where we are focused at the moment. However, Microsoft will be very active in the 3G space shortly." In particular, HTC has a 3G version of the connected PDA lined up for next year. The device will also sport a better screen and faster processor than previous devices. If the reception given to its predecessor is anything to go by, expect the networks to be queuing up.http://masl.to/?H21B13E99
In the summer of 2002, Steven McDonald, the bass player with American punk-pop band Redd Kross, had an idea. Listening to White Stripes - the minimalist Detroit duo who produce their stripped-down garage sound with just a guitar and drums - he wondered what it would sound like with a bass track. So he downloaded a White Stripes tune and tried it out. He liked it so much that he did their whole album, eventually uploading the new bass-laden tracks to his website, complete with a Photoshopped cover featuring himself as third band member.What McDonald did was illegal under copyright law. Although he called it performance art, many others call it plain old theft. Luckily for him, the Stripes' Jack White gave him the thumbs up backstage at a concert one night. Unfortunately for the rest of us, becoming a virtual third member of our favourite band remains a distant dream.But perhaps it is not as far away as it seems. On November 1, a group of new copyright licences will be released in the UK, arriving from the US under the umbrella of Creative Commons (CC). The project is the brainchild of Stanford University's   law professor Lawrence Lessig, and the licences allow artists to move away from traditional copyright's "all rights reserved" towards a more digital age-friendly "some rights reserved".The different types of licence allow artists to choose which rights they wish to maintain. They could keep the right to exploit works for commercial gain, to veto derivative works or ask to be credited each time their work is reproduced. In turn, those encountering CC licensed works on the internet know immediately how the original artist feels about the use of that work without having to ring lawyers.The licences, available free from creativecommons.org, break down into three parts. A document explains clearly which rights the licence controls. The second "lawyer-readable" document ensures the licence's admission to the courtroom, fitting the new rights in with legal mechanisms particular to where the artist lives - CC is being ported to 60 jurisdictions around the world.The third part of the licence is machine-readable code that allows search engines, such as the one hosted atcreativecommons.org, to find content based on the type of licence under which it is released.This search facility is CC's greatest strength. Although Creative Commons does not keep a record of everything licensed under CC, it does require that online licensed content links back to its website. The search facility then finds content according to what the searcher wants to do. So if you need a photograph of Yul Brynner for a non-commercial class presentation or a commercial magazine article, not only will you find it but you will also know whether you are allowed to use it.Obviously, for CC to take off, it needs to be endorsed by a wide range of content producers. Next month's issue of Wired, the American technology magazine, includes a CD of exclusive tracks from David Byrne, Chuck D, The Beastie Boys and others, all released on CC licences. All but three of the 16 tracks allow for non-commercial and commercial (excluding advertising) copying and sampling.So will Robbie Williams, who announced last year that he thought music piracy was "great", release his next album with a CC licence? Probably not. Lessig says many established artists are unlikely to routinely adopt CC until they see benefits, which will be demonstrated by more marginal artists breaking new markets under CC and the resulting collaborative projects gaining critical acclaim.One area where licences are likely to grow rapidly is with the written word. Already, net-aware writers have released their works for download under American CC rules. For out-of-print works, CC is a watertight legal mechanism that plugs gaps in demand without an expensive new print run - as the technology   publisher O'Reilly demonstrated, by offering more than 150 such works for free download.Here, Creative Commons has serious backers. To encourage the circulation of its work, the thinktank Demos has been releasing reports under a CC-influenced open access licence. But the biggest backer is the BBC. The Creative Archive - which would see chunks of the broadcaster's archive posted for free download and sampling - was enabled by the approach to copyright of the Creative Commons team.In the battle against copyright infringement that the British music industry recently joined, Creative Commons will "wage peace", Lessig hopes, with an incoming generation of media users accustomed to downloading and remixing content from the net.Linkswww.reddkross.comhttp://creativecommons.org/license/
Froogle itGoogle has launched a beta test version of Froogle, its shopping search engine, in the UK. It is now finding prices in pounds sterling for shops such as Dixons, Argos and John Lewis. Generally, Froogle searches also bring up lots of sponsored links. All we need now is for Google to remove all the shopping and price comparison rubbish from the main results pages, so product-related searches can go back to delivering some useful results.www.google.co.uk/froogleReunited foreverWe've had Friends Reunited, Forces Reunited, Convicts Reunited and similar sites for Scouts, airport staff, pub regulars, aquarists, engineers, genes, and probably lost socks. But they are not all about locating old foes/flames. Funds Reunited reckons there is &#163;20bn in unclaimed funds in the UK, such as forgotten building society accounts, and it now covers lost shares and life assurance policies. It costs &#163;5 a year to join and there are further fees for searches. However, if you wasted your youth making hit records, you can go to Royalties Reunited and see if you can claim for airplay. Registration is free.www.fundsreunited.com&lt;A HREF="http://www.royaltiesreunited.co.uk""&gt;www.royaltiesreunited.co.ukMeaningful gemsDo you know the meaning of life? If so, you have until October 31 to email your words of wisdom tomeaning@shutterline.comand share it with the world. "Just don't send a link to the Bible. Or that Baz Luhrman song about wearing sunscreen," says the site, which was started by David Seaman. No, not the ex-footballer: a New York University student. Seaman will put the best answers on the website and include them in a book he is writing.http://life.shutterline.comNo poses on usThe Life In America website also asks "Why are we here?" but in this case the answer is simple: it is to look at a really good reportage photograph every week. The site has been going for two years and now has an impressive collection. Anyone can submit images, but the rules are: "Nothing posed. Nothing faked. No computer manipulation."www.lifeinamerica.usTip of the tongueYou know there's a word for it, but you can't quite think what it is. The web now has a solution: OneLook's reverse dictionary (OLRD). Type the words into the search box and it will try to find the word you want, based on scouring online dictionaries and encyclopedias. "Search for food", for example, comes up with forage. Unfortunately, "look for food" comes up with sauce, but this is still a beta service and forage is near the top of the list. OLRD can also answer questions (but not very well) of the sort you might type into Ask Jeeves or Google, and help answer simple crossword clues.http://masl.to/?V29021E18Top-notch sitesThis month, Scientific American magazine has chosen its top 50 sites for 2004. The awards cover a wide range of topics including Great Minds and Science For Kids, and provide links to unusually interesting sites. You can also look at the awards for the previous three years.http://masl.to/?V25B25499Buy nowtIt is not for another month, but culture jammers everywhere are preparing for the annual Buy Nothing Day, to be held on November 27 in the UK (in the US, it's on Friday 26th). The idea is to "take a stand against the chronic overconsumption that is the mother of all our ecological, psychological and political problems". At least it's more realistic than Buy Nothing Christmas, "started by Canadian Mennonites but open to everyone".www.buynothingday.co.ukwww.adbusters.org/metas/eco/bnd/www.buynothingchristmas.orgHistory BotThe Centre for History at George Mason University, Virginia, is beta testing H-Bot, a mini-search engine that answers historical queries. Just type in something like "when did x happen", "who was Trotsky" or even "who were the tudors" and you get a brief answer. The results are variable: H-Bot can answer "who was Clive" but not "who was Clive of India". However, if it is for homework, it may be better to stick to Google. For example, if you ask about the Somme, H-Bot says "The battle of the Somme was in 1944" without mentioning 1916.http://chnm.gmu.edu/tools/h-bot
Since the first, top-down GTA launched onto the PC scene in 1998, the game playing community has developed a strange relationship with talk radio. Far, far from your Radio 4 high brow commentary, the seriously sarcastic and hilariously obnoxious DJ Lazlow has shock jocked the in-game airwaves with comedy tales, surreal reactions and cutting social commentary. If you thought Chris Evans was outrageous when he slapped two semi-nude women in the booty with raw fish over the Virgin Radio bandwidth, that's kid's play to the Howard Stern-esque anarchy which Lazlow wreaks on GTA's Chatterbox.Favourite Lazlow-isms include:You're listening to Chatterbox, where your opinions matter. Or at least we say they do.(GTA III)You know, it's never a dull moment on our show, especially if you're in our key demographic.(GTA: Vice City)That's what you get when you listen to this station: rock 'n roll and me. I'm not sure which I prefer.(GTA: Vice City)In conversation:Reed Tucker: Our ancestors didn't eat chicken wings, they lived at one with nature and their eco-system. Existing on a diet of nuts, berries and leafy vegetables. Lazlow: Yeah, and they threw stones at their own shadow and died of old age and fear at twenty-four.(GTA III)If you want more, you can read the entire GTA III Chatterbox script at IGN'sFAQspage. Alternatively, you can check out his out-of-game persona atRadio Lazlow.We'll be getting another dash of Lazlow-action in GTA: San Andreas. It's worth the money for his contribution alone.
Cyber-vigilanteismNot only is what Dave Birch proposing unethical (Second Sight, October 21), it is dangerous to imply that bad and simplistic propositions could offer help to a serious problem. This isn't helped by the fact that child porn is also a very red rag to a bull subject.The abuse and exploitation of anyone, anywhere, anyhow is bad. Nothing in Birch's comments would improve matters. In fact, public electronic lynchings - which is what he is calling for - would make matters worse. By diverting attention to a bad solution, more children will be in danger as money and energy is spent where it shouldn't be.Distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks should be a crime, if they are not already. As more and more economic and social life passes through the net, deliberately provoking massive failure of servers is irresponsible. It is not pushing child porn, but it is mob rule.None of the real solutions are as sexy as cyber-vigilantes with killer screensavers. They are old-fashioned, and they are slow. But, unlike those in Dave Birch's article, they work.Jonathan Munnhttp://thepowerfactory.com/journal/pivot/entry.php?id=213Save our serversI view with incredulity the Guardian urging its readership to band together to form a vigilante group to launch DDoS attacks on servers suspected of child pornography, however worthy the   eradication of child pornography is.Has anyone actually explained to the hapless Dave Birch what a DDoS attack entails? I'm sure Bill Gates, whose software is the major beneficiary of DDoS attacks, would be delighted to read this enlightened piece of writing from one of your "technical" experts.Phil DobbinCoventryBurning issueDave Birch advocates DDoS attacks against servers that host child porn. Presumably he also recommends burning paediatricians out of their homes?Dr David HarperCambridgeThe wrong trackWhile I agree that Apple's refusal to license its DRM system is "in the long run... bad news for consumers" (Jack Schofield, October 21), I think the day when portable players are loaded mostly with digital rights management files is a very long way off.The battle is often falsely characterised as being between legal and illegal downloads. My hunch is that the majority of tunes on people's iPods are not just ripped (legally) from their own CDs, as Schofield points out, but MP3s are passed on among acquaintances on hard drives and CD-Roms. These files are going to multiply rather than disappear, however many P2P users are prosecuted and whatever DRM system online stores use.Roland DenningLondonBlame cultureJack Schofield states that Apple can expect a backlash when people find they are "locked" into a proprietary system, yet uncritically claims that this is somehow good news for Microsoft and their fraudulently named "Plays for Sure" campaign.Could he please explain how one   form of proprietary digital rights management system (Apple's Fairplay) is somehow worse than another (Microsoft's Janus)? If people have any sense, they will avoid both Fairplay and Janus DRM protected files like the plague - they do nothing but punish those who want to legally download.Of course, neither Apple nor Microsoft is wholly to blame - the real villains of the piece are the music labels themselves, who appear to be determined to kill off legal downloading of music by demanding that the reprehensible DRM is foisted upon us.Jonathan TyzackLondonThe word is outThere appears to be a growing trend for online firms and other service providers to ask for a password over an encrypted link and then to email it back without encryption. This is like sending secure passwords on a postcard. For this reason, I no longer use effective passwords except for access to my work and home networks and for online banking.Scott MossDerbyshireCheap as chipsSimon Bisson (Quick Recovery, October 21) points out that businesses can improve the chance of recovery from an IT disaster by implementing back-up and restore solutions. However, he gives the impression that off-site solutions require big budgets. In fact, most UK businesses can achieve a significant improvement in their levels of resilience for a modest investment. The costs are quickly outweighed by the savings achieved in management resource, space and power - and such solutions not only make recovery from disaster more likely, but improve the chances of avoiding one in the first place.Matthew GingellLondon
Jef Raskin started the Macintosh project at Apple, so he can attract a lot of attention by claiming, as he did in last week's Online, that "unfortunately, the Mac is now a mess".What Raskin means, of course, is that the Mac is a mess, Microsoft Windows is a mess, GNU/Linux is a mess, and so is everything else based on the graphical user interface originally developed at Xerox's Palo Alto Research Center in the 1970s. Unfortunately or not, we have been stuck with much the same interface for 35 years, despite efforts to replace it.Even the people who invented the GUI had reservations about it. Alan Kay, for example, once told me they would have liked to use software agents. However, they   didn't know how to do an agent interface, but they did know how to do a GUI.GUIs certainly have some disadvantages. One is that they are inherently slow, and they are not much faster even when you get to know them well. Experienced users soon start to use keyboard shortcuts that can not only be entered quickly but can be done in "motor memory". You no longer have to look at or think about commands, because they become automatic.The mouse is even more of a hazard: it can lead to physical harm from RSI (repetitive strain injury).When Raskin named the Macintosh project after his favourite Apple, it wasn't going to have a mouse or cursor keys: it would have "leap" keys instead. Sadly for him, when Steve Jobs was   kicked off the Lisa development at Apple, he took over the Mac, and Jobs had other ideas. Raskin left the team in the summer of 1981, long before the Mac's launch in January 1984.Even then, what Raskin wanted wasn't so much a Mac as an "information appliance" that ordinary people would be able to use without learning computing. He went on to develop the SwyftCard - a document processor on an expansion card that plugged into an Apple II - which was launched in 1985. ("Swyft" meant something like "Superb With Your Favorite Typing".)That led to the Canon Cat Workprocessor, a small computer that did have two thumb-operated "leap" keys just in front of the spacebar, and a text-based interface, launched in 1987. You   can still download the Cat's manual from Raskin's site, but the machine was soon discontinued, and few people ever got to use one.Raskin has not given up. He has written a book about interface design, The Humane Interface, and there's an open source project called Jef Raskin's Humane Environment, which is implementing his user interface ideas. The latest version is the Alpha 4 Leap Demonstrator. The site lists 19 developers, including Jef and his son Aza - a lot by open source standards - but there's no sign of widespread support.Raskin's aims are worthwhile. But whether he is right or wrong about GUIs in general, and the Mac in particular, it has introduced a lot more people to personal computing than the leap key.LinksSwyftCardmasl.to/?R5B321C99Swyft Information Appliancemasl.to/?H5C325C99The Humane Interface (summary)masl.to/?G5F311C99Humane Environment Projectsourceforge.net/projects/ humane/The Anti-Mac Interface by Don Gentner and Jacob Nielsenwww.acm.org/pubs/cacm/AUG96/antimac.htm
With the hype-shower surrounding GTA San Andreas reaching monsoon proportions, one minor element of the game has emerged as a genuine talking point: eating.If you've notreadabout this feature, lead character Carl Johnson must eat regularly to stay alive. The catch is, everything available for consumption in the game has a calorific attribute – if you stuff his face with french fries and burgers, he'll put on weight. Lots of weight.And this has gameplay consequences – he won't be able to run as fast, he'll get short of breath, he'll actually be laughed at by other characters. Starve him, though, and he'll be too scrawny to pick up heavy objects or indulge in hand-to-hand combat.The idea is to build up body mass, but then put Carl through his paces in the gym to convert it all to muscle. Body image has become a game design feature. Is this a good thing?What impact will it have on our relationship with game heroes? In the past, human characters have mostly been idealised objects – the mutant fantasy figure of Lara Croft, the lithe muscular physique of beat 'em up heroes like Tekken's Martial Law and Virtua Fighter's Akira.Only comedy characters like Mario, and self-conscious geeks like Gordon Freeman have successfully strayed from gaming's Eugenic prototypes.Of course, idealised representations like Lara bring a whole series of issues, but at least they provide unmalleable physical constants – and they can be understood as escapism. With GTA San Andreas, whatever issues the individual gamer has with food, and with their own appearance, could well feed into and (literally) shape the lead character.Carl Johnson, unlike Lara Croft, is not going to represent an escape from everyday body image issues – instead, the gameplay is an extension of those concerns into the virtual space.I get the weird feeling a taboo is being broken. A videogame character being picky about what he eats, being judged on his physical appearance – it's something quite new. Of course, I'm not suggesting that the use of food itself is a revelation – this, of course, goes way back to Pac-Man, and is also going to be a staple element inMetal Gear Solid 3(Solid Snake must hunt for and eat wild animals to survive in the game's jungle setting).But usually the gamer's control over food intake is a very limited mechanic. In most titles, food is merely something you pick up to replenish health – the more you eat, the better.The Tamagotchi phenomenon introduced a more caring, more human element, in that you had to supply just the right amount of food to ensure your pet's health. However, your relationship with the onscreen character was not one of identification; no one actually wanted tobea Tamagotchi.But in the GTA series, the lead character's cool factor is central, he is aspirational. And now his body is under our direct control. Will we feel like failures if he develops a paunch and can't smack the bad guys hard enough? Will players, completely unconsciously, project their own eating habits onto the character? And where will this lead?The Sims 2, with its emphasis on relationship-building, explores similar social and image issues, and the two titles together could well give birth to a new era of games in which body image becomes a central component. The thought of dieting sims aimed at teenagers is ghastly, but not entirely unimaginable. 'Help Stacy achieve her perfect figure! Go for dinner with friends, but make sure she opts for the low-fat salad dressing, and no dessert! Lose twenty pounds in the gym and get the man of Stacey's dreams!'More positively, perhaps players will begin to use Johnson's weight as a means of stamping individuality onto their game, deliberately choosing a certain type of body image – like those create-your-own-fighter options in the latest wrestling titles.We're not sure how advanced the relationship is between diet and character ability in San Andreas, but it might also be possible to transmogrify the lead character depending on your gameplay style – opting for a skinny-ass if you're after a stealth experience, or piling on the muscle if your approach is more combat-based. This, of course, reflects the ability to choose different nano-tech body upgrades in Deus Ex, depending on if you wanted to employ a stealth or action-orientated strategy. But in GTA, this takes on a more fleshy, more corporeal dimension.San Andreas, then, will raise some interesting questions regarding our relationship with game characters and the ways in which they do, and do not, represent us. These will be difficult questions to answer.
"Shipments of personal digital assistants declined for the third consecutive quarter as large vendors continued ceding the depressed market to smaller electronics makers, the research firm IDC said Wednesday. Worldwide shipments of handheld PDAs lacking telephone capabilities decreased to 2.1 million units in the third quarter ending Sept. 30_ an 8.7% drop compared with the same quarter a year ago and a 4.6% decline from this year's second quarter," reportsAP."In the third quarter, PalmOne Inc., the top PDA seller, commanded nearly 34.7% of the market, down from a 42% share the previous quarter. Hewlett-Packard held the No. 2 slot last quarter with 30.6%, followed by Dell Inc. at 8.9%; MiTac International Corp., 3.2%; and Sony, 2.1%."Commnet:Drew has asked for a link to Neil McIntosh's article (October 28) on thePDA v Filofaxissue. Neil went back to using a notebook instead of a PDA* and Vic Keegan alsoabandoned his Psionfor paper diary. However, both now have Blackerry handhelds and smartphones.* The pen is mightier than the Psion (March 20, 2002) but I can't find it now.
If your PC starts crashing or slows down, or suddenly starts taking you to strange web pages, don't just blame Microsoft: blame spyware. You have probably fallen victim to some malicious programs, which you might have agreed to download to visit a website (or to get away from one), or installed with free software that sounded useful. Even Bill Gates suffers from spyware on his home PC, and Microsoft is promising to help stamp it out.As the name suggests, spyware spies on where you go and what you do online. It can use this information to deluge you with adverts, or just clog up your PC.When Jeffrey Friedberg, Microsoft's director of Windows privacy, told the US government earlier this year that spyware is a growing threat, he blamed it for being "at least partially responsible for approximately half the application crashes our customers report to us". Gates thinks the industry is making headway against viruses but "this malware thing is so bad; now that's the one that has us really needing to jump in". Microsoft is planning to produce software to detect spyware, and to keep it up to date. This will not be easy, given the multiplying numbers of intrusive programs.In the US, legislators are planning to make spyware illegal, and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is taking notorious spammer Sanford Wallace to court over spyware it alleges his websites were distributing. But just how much of a problem is it?According to Webroot, a software house that produces programs to find and remove spyware, the 3.2m PCs its tools have checked had an average of 26 bits of spyware installed. However, its measurements include third-party cookies from legitimate websites such as Guardian Unlimited, which don't cause PC problems and can be blocked by increasing your browser's privacy settings. Take those cookies away and it looks more like 18m infections than 83m - around six problem programs per PC.There is much confusion about what constitutes spyware and how it gets on to a PC, as well as some argument about how to deal with it.One approach is to tackle the people making money out of it. In the US, the FTC has asked the courts to shut down a series of websites that it says add insult to injury by infecting visitors with spyware ... and then selling them software that claims to remove it. "Consumers don't deserve to be pestered and spied on by people who illegally hijack their computers," said Lydia Parnes, from the FTC's   Bureau of Consumer Protection.Long-time spam sufferers may remember the name of Wallace, once nicknamed Spamford. His company, CyberPromotions, was processing 30m spam emails a day when debts of $3m - mostly legal settlements from anti-spam lawsuits - forced it out of business in 1998. The FTC claims sites built by his new companies, Seismic Entertainment Productions and SmartBot, used security flaws in Internet Explorer to download and install spyware on visitors' PCs.The spyware changed their home page and search engine settings, installed yet more spyware, then triggered "a barrage of pop-up ads". Infected PCs slowed down or crashed. The spyware would open the PC's CD-Rom drive, then tell users that they needed to spend $30 on Spy Wiper or Spy Deleter software to clean up their system. These sales earned Seismic commissions.Ari Schwartz, associate director of the Center for Democracy and Technology, which complained to the FTC about the sites, calls it extortion. He says the government needs to be involved because it is often hard to find who is responsible for spyware. "The government can gain access to records that can be blocked in a normal civil suit. That is important in a spyware case because there are so many parties involved," says Schwartz. "Based on our research, we believed that Seismic was the centre   of the chain here, but there are others involved. The FTC has the means to find out who."Wallace claims the sites didn't collect any information without asking permission, He dismisses the suit as a political move which, he says, is "attempting to enforce federal laws that have yet to be enacted".Last month, California passed a law banning spyware techniques such as logging what users type, changing security settings or sending unauthorised emails from PCs, but the US government is still working on a similar federal law, the Spy Act.Laws with teeth will make it easier to deal with the people who distribute spyware but, as with many security issues, the first steps need to be taken nearer to home.Most companies have security policies that should keep out spyware but, according to Symantec, less than 5% train their users on what that means in practice. The security improvements in Service Pack 2 for Windows XP go a long way towards protecting users, as long as they never say yes to a download without knowing what it is.However, in a recent US survey carried out by the National Cyber Security Alliance, 30% of people thought they were more likely to be struck by lightning, get audited by the tax man or win the lottery than run into security problems with their PCs. It is time to be a lot more suspicious online.Linkswww.microsoft.com/spywarewww.lavasoftusa.com/software/adaware/www.cdt.org/privacy/spyware/www.safer-networking.org/en/spybotsd/
"The Opener hasn't infected any Macs, but its potential to cause havoc proves Mac owners shouldn't take security for granted," claims Business Week Online'sByte of the Apple column."Once installed by an unsuspecting user, Opener would turn off Apple's built-in personal firewalls and turn on dangerous Internet services that might allow others to access that Mac remotely over the Net. To cover its tracks, Opener would wipe out log files."True, the level of sophistication of worms and viruses in the Windows world is higher, as is their rate of occurrence. But Opener should serve as a wake-up call to complacent and naive Mac users who assume the Apple logo equals total security."
Some good stuff in this week's print edition ofOnline:Jack Schofield takes a look atwhat type of broadband is best for you, Sean Dodson looks at Marillion'ssurprise entryinto the download chart, Becky Hogge examines the launch ofBritain's Creative Commons licencenext week.Not only that, but we've got an exclusive on thegovernment's changing attitude towards open source software, we take a look at theproblem with spyware.Plus: the latest gadgets -including the new iPod Photo;mobile gaming; and a chat with music legendJah Wobble.And, of course,much, much more...
Freshly killed, bloodied, young male bodies, laid out in neat rows where they died ... the slaughter of nearly 50 recruits to the Iraqi army, shown on the weekend news bulletins, was by no means the worst image to have come out of the war there. Children's mutilated bodies; the beheading videos; close-up shots of the aftermath of a car bomb - in the abattoir of politics there is plenty to choose from. And yet, most of the time, we are protected from actually seeing the worst. This time, sitting on the sofa watching the news, the shock was strong and lasted for days.Did we need to see the bodies? Did it help us to understand the reality of what is happening out there? Or did it merely coarsen us further, making us less easily shocked? Or, strangely, a bit of both? This is the same argument that was had in scores of broadcasters' offices and newspaper newsrooms about the harrowing images of Ken Bigley and the other murdered captives.It is the argument that raged during the IRA years, or when explicit film came back from Vietnam, Israel and the Balkans; when news crews reached the worst sights in Rwanda or Ethiopia; when in the first Iraq war, Saddam's soldiers were burned alive by US jets. But just because an argument has gone on before, doesn't mean it is outdated or resolved. This one is becoming more urgent, not less.And as for death, so for sex. The film Nine Songs has been widely described as the most    sexually explicit film given a licence for mainstream British cinemas. It not only shows the occasional act of fellatio or ejaculation in the course of a story, as with previous causes c&#233;l&#232;bres, such as Last Tango in Paris; this film is apparently about nothing else. Its director Michael Winterbottom says that cinema has been prudish: "I wanted to go to the opposite extreme and show a relationship only through sex." Further, these are not simulated sex acts. They are all real.If an individual scene of slaughter in Iraq, or an individual film getting an 18 certificate, causes a bit of a media row, then it's not a big one, simply because the "background noise" of sex and violence is already turned up so high. From Tarantino's blade-wielding maidens to hot lesbian action in our mundane soap operas, from the extreme digital gore of modern computer games, to widespread nudity on telly, we are fed a diet of images which would have had earlier generations gaping, unable to believe their eyes.We have come to accept that. Most teenage boys I know found Kill Bill merely funny. As for sex, children not even into their teens see things on the telly which would have had earlier generations of adults rushing for the off button, writing furious letters to their MP as they did so.What makes these recent examples different from the old argument about censorship? First, we are talking about acts which were real, not faked. Second, we are talking about a greater availability of images - the new democracy of moving pictures. There have been sex films for as long as there have been films. But the geographic isolation of porn cinemas, in red light areas, kept them furtive and away from most people's lives. And there have been images of war, first still images and then moving ones. But in the past decisions about censorship were made by professionals, editors and managers, working inside the news industry.Our vastly more open media world, led by the internet, changes all that. Hardcore is instantly available, including child porn. Whatever you want, if you want to see the real thing, it is probably out there, waiting for your click. There are scores of sites showing the beheading videos. Easy-to-use digital images have ripped the initiative away from news professionals. Whether you are an Islamist terrorist keen to spread fear and horror, or whether you are an uneasy, or boastful, American soldier photographing scenes from Abu Ghraib with a mobile phone and emailing them, the old barriers to broadcasting have come crashing down.And this is true even in the mainstream of modern broadcasting. The BBC, or CNN, can decide not to show certain images. But the burgeoning Arab TV stations are spilling them out across the Middle East anyway. Even in Russia, a comparatively tightly controlled society, Putin was unable to stop his citizens seeing the reality of the Beslan school massacre. The old media monopoly is as dead as the old monopoly on nuclear know-how.This, in turn, produces a new kind of media-political debate. Mary Whitehouse's world has been destroyed not simply by porn and liberal values, but by technology. Campaigns to get governments to ban things are increasingly beside the point. At the very extremes, as with paedophile porn, governments can still work together, limit the damage and arrest its makers. But in restraining images of mere explicit sex and explicit violence, the power of individual states has gone.It does not mean that mainstream broadcasters simply give up, and show whatever pictures they can lay their hands on. If the political motivation is to disgust and terrorise, the broadcasters don't have to oblige. We know what happened to Mr Bigley. We don't need to watch it. The human imagination is flexible enough. Sometimes we do need to see images of massacres to remind us of the dreadful reality of what is happening in, say, Iraq; but every image lessens the power of the next.The same is true of sex. After decades of trying to find the next titillating sex story, the   tabloids now find it impossible to shock us. Their sales are falling and there's no way back. So there are interesting and difficult commercial decisions: sliding downhill into gormless explicitness is not a universal route to success.In the main, though, the onus is back on us, as individuals. We have the "freedom" to see all the intimacies and horrors of the world; the question is, how do we use it? There are signs of hope. Internet chatroom debates among apparently young and media savvy people about whether to watch the beheading videos, are interesting for the general hostility to the idea. People who have watched them, out of curiosity and ghoulishness - the same motives as among the crowds at public executions in the past - express regret and sorrow. The notion that porn cheapens human relationships is accepted on the left, as well as the right.Rather than ban, we can look away. We have to recapture the language of individual restraint and decency. We need to recall that the power of disapproval, and shame, can be stronger than the power of the state. The freedom to watch is also the freedom not to watch. Pictures and images may be everywhere, but they are only two-dimensional. We may see, but we don't necessarily feel. Feelings depend on more than just images: on words, arguments and values. We don't need to hurry along to Nine Songs, or to click on the grim sites. And we are better people when we don't.jackie.ashley@guardian.co.uk
Thank heaven for Sainsbury's. Not for the stores but for last week's reminder that government is not alone in having IT disasters. There is no evidence that the public sector bungles more often than business. Given the extra hurdles facing government agencies - procurement rules and the complexities of public policy - this is quite an achievement.Every project has to work all the time. When government can't reach this level, it has to pretend. Managers are under colossal pressure to maintain that programmes are running on schedule and that consensus reigns even when projects are patently struggling.This outlook may account for the government's sniffy response to a   thoughtful and provocative investigation into IT projects that the House of Commons Work and Pensions Committee published in July. Under the conventional courtesies, the government's reply is "we know what we're doing and we don't need your suggestions".So, even when the Department for Work and Pensions agrees with a recommendation - on big bang projects, for example - it says it has taken action already.When the department disagrees, it is because it knows a better way. The committee's enthusiasm for "concept viability" - the idea of sounding out the market before a new system is procured - gets short shrift. "The department is not convinced that the concept viability service would produce the best results for it. It is already increasingly working on a partnership basis with its main suppliers and so is able to get early industry intelligence in that way."This spectacularly misses the point of concept viability, which is to get a reality check before contracts are signed.Predictably, the department comes down against the committee's suggestions for more openness. Results of staff consultations, for example, are to remain secret. The excuse: as consultation is an iterative process throughout the lifespan of a project, it would be "inappropriate" to publish the result of a one-off consultation.It will be interesting to see whether this extraordinary position survives its first contact with the Freedom of Information Act.And, of course, the department dashes any hope that results of gateway reviews will enter the   public domain. The government reply says that both the department and the Office of Government Commerce have been "frank" about the idea, which is civil service speak for hitting the ceiling."There are legitimate concerns around the need to protect government departments' onward programme of competitive supply, and to protect the inherent value of the openness and candour_ currently afforded by confidentiality."Bah. It is time to blow the whistle on this whole idea of commercial confidentiality in government. The sky didn't fall in when the Audit Commission Act required local authorities to make available details of their contracts with suppliers. What is so different about Whitehall? Commercial secrecy doesn't seem to have done Sainsbury's much good.
Chips upPC users who need to upgrade their systems now have the choice of buying a machine with an AMD Athlon 64 processor, as opposed to the usual 32-bit Intel Pentium. Do you think it is worth choosing the new technology, or should the average computer user stick to the old and proven system?TaliaJack Schofield replies:The AMD Athlon 64 has the edge on price/performance, and 64-bit processing is an advantage if you have any software that exploits it. At the moment, Windows doesn't, so it uses the Athlon's 32-bit mode. Intel's Pentium 4 has the advantage of hyper-threading, where one processor works much like two. This is something Windows XP does support today, and the result is better multi-tasking.However, in most circumstances, there is probably not much difference between the two. The only people who are really bothered are serious games players and those with high-end requirements where processor speed makes a practical difference, in which case we would be talking about the Athlon 64 FX range. Either way, the decision would ultimately depend on running benchmarks with a small number of critical applications, and the result could have more to do with the way the software has been written than which chip is technically "faster".The real question is whether such high-end chips are good value for average users. You will not get the full benefits of either unless you install lots of memory - at least   512MB - and a fast graphics card. This is OK if money is no object. However, if you are working to a budget, it is usually better to save money on the processor and spend it on extra memory and a bigger hard drive. In my case - since my main tasks are word processing and email - I spend more on the screen and keyboard.DoomedI have had an email from my ISP which says: "Your account has been used to send a large amount of unsolicited email during the last week. Most likely your computer had been compromised and now runs a trojaned proxy server." What should I do?Name withheldJS:You have probably received a hoax message sent by MyDoom, a common Windows virus. Usually the email asks you to "follow our instruction in the attached text file in order to keep your computer safe", or something similar. The attachment is the virus, and should have been identified as such by your anti-virus software. If you don't have any, download Grisoft's free AVG, take your PC offline, restart it and run the virus checker. After completing the scan and removing any viruses, restart your PC and scan it again. Then go online and do another check with a different web-based virus scanner such as Trend's Housecall or Symantec. You may well find your PC does not have any viruses. MyDoom is a mass-mailing worm and has sent the same or similar emails to millions of innocent users.Mail slicingWhen I send large attachments - JPeg, Word, Excel files - Norton AV appears to split the email into several parts that cannot be reassembled by some recipients. They just get huge character lists. What is going wrong?Keith BaterJS:The internet can only guarantee to deliver 7-bit ASCII (text) files, and   many mail systems have a limit on file size. So, to handle large binary files, mail programs such as Microsoft Outlook convert the file into text - your "huge character lists" - and chop it into smaller pieces. The recipient's mail program should be able to recombine and decode the pieces. However, someone using a Web-based mail system may have to download the files and recombine them separately.Your mail program should allow you to choose whether or not to split large files, and set a maximum file size. In Outlook Express, for example, go to Tools|Accounts and select the Mail tab for the service you use. Click the Properties button and then the Advanced tab on the Properties sheet. In your case, there should be a tick in the checkbox marked Sending, and a maximum file size - the default is 60K, which is ridiculous. You can either untick this box or type in a larger number such as 1024K (ie a megabyte), though this will be too big for some mailboxes.You can make many files much smaller by compressing them before you send them. WinRAR is good for this. However, the recipient then has to use the same or a compatible program to uncompress them. Zip is the most common format. It is not worth compressing JPeg image files.Backchat&#183;Last week, a reader wanted a mobile phone that was also Wi-Fi compatible. That day, the Wi-Fi Alliance announced it had certified the first round of such "converged" products. The list includes three phones, the HP iPaq Pocket PC h6315, the Nokia 9500 Communicator and the Motorola MPx, and a Wi-Fi Convergence Accessory, the SanDisk Connect Wi-Fi SD card. Thanks to Alan Burkitt-Gray, editor of Global Telecoms Business, for forwarding the press release.
The Urbz: Sims in the CityXbox&#163;39.99, Electronic Arts/Maxis&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;The Sims 2 might be kicking up a storm on the PC but since the release of The Sims: Bustin' Out, Maxis has shown it is not neglecting the consoles. It has reinforced this with The Urbz: Sims in the City - a new console-based franchise.OK, so the Sims are in it, but this time they have left their cutesy town lives and headed into the big city, where what you wear and who you hang with are paramount. Players adopt the role of an adolescent sim or urb and choose one of nine city areas in which to start. Each area is controlled by a gang: skaters, punks, beatniks - you get the picture.The idea is to earn reputation points with your chosen clique by socialising, hanging out, pulling off the right moves and dressing in the appropriate gear. Once the points mount up, you will get invitations to other areas of the city where you will have to do the same thing.Of course, life isn't just about partying. You have an apartment to kit out and bills to pay - not to mention regularly fulfilling your five needs (hygiene, sleep, food, entertain ment and bowel movements).Each area of the city comes with job opportunities that take the form of button-bashing games. Unsurprisingly, this helps give The Urbz more of a gamey feel than previous Sims titles. Despite somewhat repetitive gameplay, The Urbz has bucket-loads of colourful exuberance and detail that manages to be captivating and fun without major time investments.Sega SuperstarsPlayStation 2 (requires EyeToy)&#163;29.99 Sega&#42;&#42;&#42;The Sony EyeToy is a great device. Plug one into your PlayStation 2 and there you are - projected on to the TV and into a game. The "wow" factor is considerable. Sadly, the novelty factor wears off quite soon, leaving most owners wanting a little more depth to their arm waving.Sony has recognised this and is releasing new games for Christmas. In the meantime, Sega has stepped in with Superstars - a compilation of 12 mini-games featuring classic characters such as Sonic the Hedgehog.As with the original EyeToy, the games are a simple mix of arm-waving and dance moves. But this time, interesting ideas are thrown in. The Super Monkey Ball game sees you controlling the little simian with your hands rather than the joypad.   This can get frustrating, but it encourages repeat play.Top marks, though, goes to Nights, a version of the cult Sega title that sees players flying through rings. The EyeToy version catches the freakish charm of the original and entertains for far longer than most games.The package lacks some of the more advanced multiplayer options promised by Sony's Play 2. But for fans of Sega, and those who want new EyeToy games to play, Superstars is worth waving your arms at.Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum LaudePlayStation2, Xbox, PC&#163;39.99 High Voltage/Vivendi Universal&#42;&#42;Gamers who remember the 1980s - especially if they were teenage boys then - may recall the Leisure Suit Larry adventures, in which you tried to get the uber-naff Larry laid.Sadly, this attempt to revive the franchise using modern technology misses the mark badly. You play Larry's nephew, Larry Lovage, who must make his way around college, pursuing a quest for sex. To talk to certain characters, Larry must build up his confidence level, achieved by drinking alcohol or playing mini-games. Unfortunately, such games, which involve button-bashing, bouncing coins into glasses, or manoeuvring Larry's sperm around obstacles to improve his conversational skills, are generally annoying.The game has the odd amusing moment, is less linear than the original series and the storyline, involving a dating reality show, is pleasantly convoluted. But the repetitive, fiddly mini-games soon drive you mad, and the game's graphics and juvenile tone seem to be pitched at a younger audience than the original series. This remake should have remained unmade.&#183;Keep up with the latest from the gaming world with our Gamesblog atguardian.co.uk/gamesblogTop 5 gamesPlayStation 21. Pro Evolution Soccer 42. Fifa 20053. Tony Hawk's Underground 24. LMA Manager 20055. Burnout 3: Takedown&#183;Source: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
Music playersLogical solution to cradling the iPodAlways losing your iPod? Never sure where you left its recharging cradle? Logic 3 hopes to solve that problem with its i-Station recharging suite cum mini hi-fi system. Pop the Apple player into its cradle and it tops up the battery. You can then listen to your favourite playlists, courtesy of the speakers, subwoofer and integrated amplifier.Naturally, it is finished in white, but if you can cope with the colour clash, it also works with iPod minis. It comes with Firewire and USB 2.0 connectors so you can hook it up to a PC or Mac for transferring tracks.Sound quality is much what you would expect for a &#163;60 system. It is rather tinny and there is not much evidence of a subwoofer at work. It is OK for small rooms, though.With 4 x AA batteries, the i-Station morphs into a reasonably portable iPod. There are better specified iPod speaker systems, such as the &#163;100 Altec Lansing inMotion, and the audiophile's choice - the &#163;400 Eclipse TD307. But for the price, the i-Station is not bad value.&lt;A HREF="http://www.logic3.co.uk""&gt;www.logic3.co.ukSnap and popApple wheeled out rock demigods U2 this week to unleash a wave of announcements that could take the iPod beyond the confines of the digital music market. The biggest development came with the iPod Photo - a colour screen version of the music player which can hold up to 25,000 digital pictures as well as music. Weighing in at either 40GB or 60GB, it will be shipping in the US for $499 (&#163;272) or $599, depending on the model. As well as expanding its online iTunes music store further across Europe, Apple also unveiled a black-and-red signature U2 special edition iPod, aimed at converting fans who are only able to buy the band's new single through iTunes.www.apple.comIn the swimUS-based Finis has become the latest company to unveil an MP3 player designed for swimmers. Unlike the Oregon Scientific MP120, which has been on sale in the UK since the summer and uses traditional earphones, the SwiMP3 harnesses innovative bone conduction technology that transfers sound to the inner ear via the cheek bone. The company claims this dramatically increases the quality of a player's underwater performance. The player, which comes with a pair of goggles specifically designed to house the SwiMP3, is Windows and Mac compatible, features 128MB of storage and retails in the US for around $250. There is no news of a UK launch.www.finisinc.comFlashy lifestyleSony's first digital music players compatible with MP3 files in their existing format are to go on sale in the UK next month. Sold under the Network Walkman brand, the NW-E99 and NW-E95 are tiny Flash memory-based players with 1GB and 512MB of storage respectively. If Sony's Atrac music compression system is used, the E99 1GB player will house more than 40 CDs. Both have a battery life of around 70 hours and weigh around 40g. The NW-E99 is expected to retail for around &#163;160, with the NW-E95 in the region of &#163;120.www.sony.co.ukMobile PhonesOn holdWhile American stores took delivery of the PalmOne Treo 650 this week, it could be several months before the mobile phone/PDA hybrid reaches the UK. The device, which keeps the Treo 600's Qwerty keyboard but offers   an improved screen, faster processor and more prominent phone voice call buttons, has not tempted any UK networks. Only Orange would confirm it was considering launching the Treo 650 at some point in the new year. The Treo 650 also includes a VGA camera with a 2x digital zoom, 32MB of memory, and a SDIO slot for adding storage and functionality.www.palmone.com/uk3G limitsIn a series of announcements last week, T-Mobile unveiled a pair of new smartphones, took the wraps off two new BlackBerrys and gave a few hints about its 3G launch for consumers. Due to debut next month, the T-Mobile MDA III is a Microsoft Windows Mobile device similar to O2's XDA II. The new model features that device's 240 x 320 resolution 64K colour screen and VGA camera. However, T-Mobile has added integrated Wi-Fi and a pull-down flap with Qwerty keypad. T-Mobile will also sell HP's connected PDA, the iPaq h6340, and two new BlackBerrys - the 7920 and the smartphone-style 7100t. The network also confirmed it would launch a limited 3G service for   consumers before Christmas, featuring handsets from Nokia and Samsung. A 3G version of the BlackBerry will launch later next year.www.tmobile.co.ukSoftwareSport for puristsBetting firm Cantor Sport has linked up with the Press Association news agency to provide a mobile news service for sports fanatics. The SP service has real-time headlines, scores and stories covering everything from football to athletics, and should prove a boon to armchair sports fans. The downloadable hourly sports news bulletins suffer from the lack of quality handset video, so the &#163;10 monthly charge might seem a bit steep. At the moment, it is mainly compatible with Symbian series 60 phones, but there are plans to extend the offering to other platforms. Not bad, but probably one for the purists.www.thesportsphone.co.ukStat of the weekGovernment plans to widen the scope of gambling in the UK have attracted much criticism, but a recent survey showed that last month, more then 4m Britons visited gambling and sweepstake sites. Having a flutter online is clearly a popular pastime.
"Individual investors who jumped at the chance to buy Google stock in the company's initial public offering two months ago can be forgiven for a certain amount of smugness. Having bought shares at $85, Google investors have more than doubled their money and have silenced the numerous critics of Google's Dutch auction IPO," reportsAP."At the start of trading on Oct. 22, Google opened at $170.32 and closed at $172.43. On Monday, it climbed to an intraday high of $194.43, and closed Tuesday at $181.50, down $5.60, after a typical spate of post-earnings profit-taking."
1.Fifa 20052.Pro Evolution Soccer 43.Tony Hawk's Underground 24.Star Wars: Battlefront5.The Sims 26.Burnout 3: Takedown7.LMA Manager 20058.Shark Tale9.Pokemon Fire Red10.Pokemon Leaf GreenSource: Elspa, compiled by ChartTrack
If you're not a regular visitor to the excellent videogame theory siteLudology.org, then you will have missed this link, to afabulous feature, originally published in Rolling Stone magazine in 1972, looking at seminal mainframe shoot 'em up, Computer Space. It's a fascinating glimpse into the way computer technology and particularly electronic entertainment were written about before there was a jargon-littered sub-language to deal with the subject.
Frustrated at not being able to hunt and kill animals while on the bus or train? Your troubles may soon be over. Mobile entertainment siteWireless Gaming Reviewhas just run anarticleonSorrent's conversion of Deer Hunter, the shockingly successful PC hunt 'em up from 1997. Apparently, there's a generous range of weapons including a rifle and cross bow. And it also boasts 'MP3 sound clips of roaming deer'. Well, everyone else might as well pack up and go home, the zenith of mobile gaming has been achieved.
Almost every week gamesblog discovers another study to counteract the negativity of much of the press surrounding videogames. Indeed, The Guardian has a fantasticfeatureon last night's highly positive presentation of the results of three years of study of games in the classroom.Researchers at theInstitute of Educationat the University of London have taken a cross-disciplinary approach to their work, incorporating psychologists, critical theorists and educationalists to explore the topic. The project has highlighted the role of gaming in the social and educational development of kids, and emphasises the need for such positive interactivity across the ages and genders.Not only will this keep the little nippers entertained in class, but maybe they'll even learn something along the way. I look forward to the day when critical thinking is learned through puzzle-solving in titles like Tomb Raider, Prince of Persia and Super Mario Bros.Such coverage could go a long way in re-estabilishing the sketchy reputation of video games. Already, innovative institutions from around the world are recognising the benefits of computer gaming, whether used for the explicit purpose of learning or purely for entertainment. For example, the BBC published anarticlea few weeks ago examining research with a group of street kids in Buenos Aires, Argentina whose game playing has instilled skills for conflict resolution, social inclusion and personal empowerment.Such work is not going unnoticed by the powers that be, either. The Canadian government is in the process of funding a three-year project atSimon Fraser Universityto encourage girls to get involved with gaming in the classroom, and from academics I have spoken with, the US'National Science Foundationis on a mission to distribute research monies to academics across the States interested in the topic. Certainly this has the potential to shake up the way we view education and learning, and hopefully the way the general public considers video games.
"Internet extortionists yesterday threatened one of the leading UK online betting companies with a child pornography smear campaign unless it paid out several thousand euros," reportsthe Financial Times."The threat to Blue Square takes attacks by cyber criminals on internet companies to a new level.""Blue Square's website was inaccessible for five hours on Monday morning as hackers began bombarding the site. The company was then sent an email demanding that 7,000 euros (£4,860) be paid to an online website... on Tuesday morning the blackmailers followed up with a phone call, threatening to send child pornographer emails in the company's name unless the money was paid within two days."
Get ready to charge those batteries - Sony havefinally announcedlaunch details for their forthcoming PSP handheld. The sexy machine will launch in Japan on December 12th, priced at around £100. There are 21 games due out before the end of the year, with a few EA Sports titles mixed in with more traditional Japanese fare. It will be interesting to see what price the device comes in at when released in the UK next year. Most analysts had predicted a more expensive price point, around £199 to £249. The other key issue is battery life. Sony say it will be: "between four and six hours for game titles and continuous four to five hours for video viewing,". Of course, this is without using wi-fi, so real-life tests will be interesting. US and European release dates remain unconfirmed, but expect to be annoying commuters with this baby sometime around next Easter..
The tomb-raiding exploits of Lara Croft or the adventures of the cuddly ogre Shrek can help children's social and educational development, according to researchers calling for computer games to be part of the school curriculum.Far from being an obesity-inducing, violence-promoting threat to society, as they are often portrayed, the games being played in bedrooms across the   country during half term can be used in the classroom to help children learn concepts such as critical appreciation of narrative structure or character development which they might otherwise study in a novel, say academics at London University's Institute of Education.Research into games, conducted by the institute's Centre for the Study of Children, Youth and Media and partly funded by the Department for Trade and Industry, also suggests youngsters could develop   their literacy skills by writing games programmes as well as studying existing ones.Caroline Pelletier, who is managing the project, said: "Like all games, computer and video games entertain while promoting social development, and playing and talking about games is an important part of young people's lives."Game literacy is, as a way of investigating how games are means of expression and representation, just like writing or drawing."Researchers, who presented their findings at a seminar in London last night, believe games deserve to be treated by schools with the same seriousness as books and films. Andrew Burn, the associate director of the children, youth and media centre, said: "Games are a cultural form that is just beginning to evolve and the evidence is they can be every bit as rich and complex and nuanced as a book or a film."Parents and teachers should be reassured that games   "deserve critical analysis in schools just as film, television and literature do", he added.Public antagonism towards computer games is simply the latest manifestation of a long tradition of "fear of new media", according to Dr Burn. "It goes all the way from the invention of the printing press to horror comics in 1950s America."The perception that computer games are predominantly violent and bloodthirsty - a view perpetuated by explicit links with games in   some murder cases - is incorrect, the researchers say. Many involve imaginative role play, while in the biggest selling game of all time, The Sims, players construct virtual families. "You just put the characters together in a house and keep them happy," Dr Burn said. "People who don't know about games obviously have a distorted and reductive view of them."As part of their continuing three-year project, academics worked with children at   Charles Edward Brooke School in Lambeth, south London, using traditional games such as snakes and ladders as well as computer games to encourage the youngsters to consider the challenges and game principles lying beneath the stories involving Lara Croft and other anatomically unlikely characters.The notion of computer games as a potential teaching tool was yesterday welcomed as worthy of further consideration by John Dunford, general secretary of the Secondary Heads Association."Potentially this has a lot to offer in making lessons interesting," Dr Dunford said. "As a maths teacher, I used games including darts to teach multiplication and subtraction - we didn't actually play, but we used the idea of points."He did not play computer games himself, Dr Dunford admitted, "but I can see they use a logical thought process."
The Apple PR ishere.Prices are $499 for the 40GB model and $599 for the 60GB.Apple also launched a "European Union" version of the iTunes Music Store covering Austria, Belgium, Finland, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal and Spain, with the headline price being €0.99 per song. Even the Canadians will get the service next month.
The first reviews of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, released this Friday, have started coming through. IGN, the blandly written yet oddly respected games site,gives the game 9.9. Gamespot is onlymarginallyless excited. I have waded through the tight security surrounding the game and have been promised a copy on "Wednesday". Lets hope they mean tomorrow and not next week as I'm planning a review forOnline. One real concern is over the new soundtrack and how it compares to Vice City - Dr Dre overThe Human League? Get outta here...
The handheld consolesNintendo DS,PSPandGizmondowill be rallying for top position in interactive hearts over the next couple of months, but a recentannouncementthat Bill Gates himself will be speaking at January's Consumer Electronics Show has shifted the speculation about next generation consoles up a gear, and turned our attentions towards that heated battle for a moment.Gates is expected to announce mouth-watering key features of the XBox 2, codename Xenon, potentially called "XBox Next", thus confirming years of speculation. Among the titbits he's expected to discuss are the connectivity components, the hard drive capabilities and the release date. He recently spoke with a French newspaper about its multimedia aspects. Gamesindustry.biz has a great review of the articlehere.PlayStation's well-oiled marketing machine has had us guessing about its future since before the PlayStation 2 was released in 2000 with pre-emptory purchases of a PlayStation 3 domain name. Thus far the rumours about their next generation machine continue to be little more than fan boy-fluff, though all the knowledge you could hope to have can be found at thePS3portal. Meanwhile, they're distracting us with spin-offs like thePSTwo, if only to overflow their bulging coffers.Nintendo is also in on the act, and their top secret next-gen console "Revolution" could be the leader of the pack, potentially re-launching the halcyon days of Nintendo-domination; their release date is tentatively set for2006. TheIGNhas a good bit of information on what the future holds for Mario and his pals.The danger, of course is that the hubbub which will ensue on the part of marketers, PR people, journalists, game developers and consumers is going to undermine the value of the products released for the current machines. Instead of focussing on these, column inches, training sessions and window dressing are likely to focus on potential titles (and skills) for the future hardware.Considering there is still a lot of life left in the old machines - if the phenomenalsalesof PlayStation 2's after the releases of EyeToy Play and SingStar are anything to go by - this focus could damage the industry's implicit intentions to broaden their appeal to the non-hardcore, casual market. There was brief discussion at Edinburgh'sinternational games festivalin 2003 about the proclivity to "rainbow chase" future technologies, relegating contemporary products to the sub-worthwhile bin. Hopefully late-cycle arrivals likeGTA:San Andreas,Halo 2andEyeToy Chatwill maintain enough interest in the old machines to keep them out of car boot sales for a little while.Regardless, let the race begin!
Children should be taught computer games in the classroom because it can help them learn, researchers said today.Girls in particular should be taught how to play and devise computer games because they are missing out on future jobs, they said.Researchers from the Institute of Education, in London, have been carrying out two separate research projects into how computer games can be used in the classroom and will today present their findings at a seminar in the capital.One argument for teaching computers in schools is that pupils need to be taught "computer literacy" so they can understand the level of violence in some games, and the difference between those images and reality. They want to teach pupils "computer game literacy".The project manager for one of the studies, Caroline Pelletier, said: "Like all games, computer and video games entertain while promoting social development, and playing and talking about games is an important part of young people's lives."Game literacy is a way of investigating how games are means of expression and representation, just like writing or drawing. By developing game-making tools, players can become producers as well as consumers of games, writers as well as readers."Research fellow Diane Carr said teaching had to focus on girls in particular. "Girls and women tend to be positioned as being 'outside the loop' by player cultures and the games industry, especially in terms of marketing," she said."Without first-hand experience of how much fun a game can be, they have little motivation to play and remain disengaged from an engrossing and sociable activity."
Sony Pictures Digital, the multimedia arm of Sony Pictures, has announced a deal with film studio Revolution to create mobile content (games, ringtones, wallpapers, screensavers, video clips, voicetones, etc) around its upcoming movies, including the sequel to risible 'extreme' spy movie XXX, entitled XXX: State Of The Union.'The mobile medium has become a successful way to generate greater audience awareness for film releases and offer consumers exciting premium mobile content which further connects them to a film property,' said Ira Rubenstein, Senior Vice President, Sony Pictures Digital.Wait a sec... rewind there, Ira.Okay, the interesting part here, is not the game itself, it's the importance that Sony Pictures is placing on mobile entertainment as a new marketing stream. It seems that advertising fatigue in modern consumers is becoming a real worry for large corporations desperate to squeeze their message into the dense media frenzy of our daily lives. The mobile phone - an ever present, always on communication tool - is the perfect medium. Sony offered a similar package of games and multimedia fluff to accompany the release of Spider-Man 2, fostering deals with network operators throughout the world to carry the content. The game was the most successful title on Vodafone Live! over the summer.So, with mobile games, have the mega-corpsreallyfound a Trojan horse capable of by-passing our media-weary intellectual firewalls? Are mobile games the new viral Quicktime movies, the new animating advertising hoards, the new music festival sponsorship? Perhaps. And the best part is, of course, wepayfor these ads! How stupid are we?How long before we are playing mobile games by Gap, McDonalds or Pepsi? Not long. Your mobile phone is your personal space and that makes it valuable real estate for advertisers. They know you don't want to receive text messages – that'stoointrusive. But if they can seduce you into downloading their ads for your own entertainment, if they can make you show your friends the cool stuff you got this morning… well… that's the Holy Grail. Just think about that while you're playing Labour Party: The Mobile Game next year…
Gazetteers, the age-old precursor to the blogger, have finally found their place on the internet. A new website, launched today, brings together their accounts of Britain through the ages with more than 10m census entries and reproductions of ancient maps.The gazetteer spent his (for they were mostly men) weekends touring the country and documenting towns, villages and cities. Each would record population, politics and social statistics for posterity.Now their findings, along with every census finding from the past 200 years, and thousands of centuries-old maps - including the first ever ordinance survey series - have been compiled into a website.Users can enter a postcode into a search engine and are provided with detailed social history of how the area has changed - the shifting population, where people work, how educated they are and even whether they have an inside loo.The website also features the observations of travel writing pioneers, including the 12th century cleric, Gerald of Wales, Daniel Defoe, William Cobbett and the intrepid Celia Fiennes. The latter was the 17th century woman who, at the age of 23, decided that a spell touring the country on horseback would be good for her health. She documented her findings and is believed to have inspired the "see a fine lady upon a white horse" nursery rhyme.It has taken a team of historical geographers at Portsmouth University 10 years and a £1.5m lottery grant to put together the website,www.VisionofBritain.org.uk, which was due to go live at noon today.Project director, Dr Humphrey Southall, said: "There's a great deal of interest in history now. More and more people want to know about their roots."Our site isn't about individual people but it does offer a wealth of background for local historians, genealogists, archivists, school pupils and teachers - in fact, anyone who wants to find out more about the history of where they live. From the site, you can find out very easily and quickly what your area used to be like and how it has changed."
"Revenge a dish best served cold ... or, perhaps, over the internet," reportsthe Times."Several websites have sprung up in recent months to exploit a growing taste for online vengeance among rejected lovers. Leaving little to the imagination, the sites have names such as www.is-a-cheat.com and www.myexwifesabitch.com. Harmless enough ... or is it?""'These sites are a legal minefield,' Joanne Cash, a barrister specialising in defamation law at 1 Brick Court Chambers, says. 'They exemplify the increasing tendency, led by programmes such as the Jerry Springer Show and Trisha, for individuals to vilify their partners, ex-partners and even family members in public. People are simply unaware that in doing so they may be infringing someone else's rights and sometimes even defaming them.'"It still surprises me that people don't seem to think of the legal consequences before putting something on the internet. It shouldn't really.
There have been no shortage of insane, over ambitious ideas on the internet. Most of them never make it further than the pub they are conceived in. Some generate hype but quickly fall flat on their face. Others survive, but prove to be minnows rather than the giants they set out to be. However, every so often, one sneaks through.Wikipedia is one of the rare ones that made it. Even by the admission of its founder, the 38-year-old technology entrepreneur Jimmy Wales, it was a "completely insane idea": a free online encyclopedia that anyone can contribute to and anyone can edit. There is no editor, no army of proof readers and fact checkers; in fact, no full-time staff at all. It is, in other words, about as far from the traditional idea of an encyclopedia as you can get.There are dozens of reasons why it shouldn't work, and it is still far from perfect, but in less than four years, it has grown to have more than 1 million entries written in 100 languages from Albanian to Zulu.To its fans, it is a fantastic research resource - albeit one that you should use with caution; and an incredible example of what can be achieved by collaboration and cooperation over the internet. To its detractors - mostly those from the traditional world of encyclopedias and librarianship, it is barely worthy of the label "encyclopedia".To put Wikipedia's achievements in numerical context, at the same time it was celebrating the publishing of its one millionth entry (a Hebrew article on the Kazakhstan flag) in less than four years, the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography launched its latest edition. It had taken 12 years to complete, yet contained a comparatively tiddly 55,000 biographies. It also cost some &#163;25m to create. Wikipedia has so far been bankrolled by Wales, but the total cost so far is still around &#163;300,000.The current Encyclopedia Britannica has 44m words of text. Wikipedia already has more than 250m words in it. Britannica's most recent edition has 65,000 entries in print and 75,000 entries online. Wikipedia's English site has some 360,000 entries and is growing every day.But numbers mean nothing if the quality is no good. And this is where the arguments start."Theoretically, it's a lovely idea," says librarian and internet consultant Philip Bradley, "but practically, I wouldn't use it; and I'm not aware of a single librarian who would. The main problem is the lack of authority. With printed publications, the publishers have to ensure that their data is reliable, as their livelihood depends on it. But with something like this, all that goes out the window."Wales responds by acknowledging that Wikipedia's model leaves it anything but error free (something they make clear on the site) but he also points to an article in a German technology magazine this month, which compares Wikipedia with two established, traditional digital encyclopedias: Brockhaus and Microsoft's Encarta. All three were tested on breadth, depth, and comprehensibility of content, ease of searching, and quality of multimedia content. Wikipedia won hands down.Dan Gillmor, the Silicon Valley commentator and author of We the Media, is one of many independent fans: "I don't think anyone is saying Wikipedia is an absolute replacement for a traditional encyclopedia. But in the topics I know something about, I've found Wikipedia to be as accurate as any other source I've found.The roots of Wikipedia lie in the open source software movement, which took off in the early 90s with the development of Linux, a free version of the Unix computer operating system. This was developed in the mid-90s and posted on to the net, giving anyone the right to adapt and improve it. It has become the only real challenger to Microsoft's dominance of the market.The programmer and author Eric Raymond analysed the Linux phenomenon in his 1997 paper, The Cathedral and the Bazaar, which has since become the manifesto for the open source movement. Raymond compared the traditional school of software development to cathedrals, which meant they were "carefully crafted, by individual wizards or small bands of mages (magicians) working in splendid isolation".The open source community he wrote, "seemed to resemble a great babbling bazaar of differing agendas and approaches ... out of which a coherent and stable system could seemingly emerge only by a succession of miracles."The critical law of the bazaar school of publishing, Raymond claimed, was that "given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow". And this is at the heart of how Wikipedia works. Because it has so many people swarming over it all the time errors and abuses of the system are all quickly picked up.Indeed, research by IBM showed that acts of "vandalism" (ie people deliberately writing either rubbish or abusive comments) were normally cleared from the site within five minutes.For example, at 23.23 on September 27 this year, a user under the name Hitler edited the entry on Judaism by proposing that it be put forward for a "Vote For Deletion" (ie it should be removed entirely from Wikipedia). He summarised his edit as "HOLOCAUST LOL" (Laughing Out Loud). At 23.29 another user removed this from the page. And at 23.44, "Hitler" was been banned indefinitely from using the site.But, this isn't always the case. One blogger, who goes under the name of Frozen North, made a point of deliberately making a number of minor errors on a number of entries at the start of September. He made five changes and it took at least 20 hours for them to be changed. Some of his implanted errors were there for five days before he removed them himself.As Wales admits: "The average quality of the entries is pretty good, but on any given day, any given entry might be up or down."The truth is that Wikipedia is continuously evolving. There are now around 3,000 new entries being added each day (about 700-800 of which are in English); and as the site has got bigger, so has the amount of editing that takes place on it. In September this year, there were an average of 11 edits per article. The entry on the Israel-Palestinian conflict has been edited more than 250 times this year alone.The most contested entry, though, is that of George Bush, which has caused so much controversy that it has been frozen from editing. It had had more than 500 edits between August and the start of October, and there are more than 13 pages of discussion about the entry.The truth is that Wikipedia reveals what is normally hidden in an encyclopedia: the countless decisions that lie behind each entry. The only difference is that in Wikipedia, the decision-making never stops and the debates are often robust to say the least.Wales says an entry in his encyclopedia is "like a sausage: you might like the taste of it, but you don't necessarily want to see how it's made".It might seem like anarchy. And, given the lack of central control, it technically is. However, there are three elements that make it work.The first is its ownership, and lack of commercial imperative. The site is manned by volunteers, and now owned by a foundation, which means people willingly give their time and intellectual property to the venture. It manages to run on less than $100,000 a year.The second is that the overriding editorial principle that all articles should show a "Neutral point of view" (NpoV). According to Wales, this is as much "a social technique for getting people to work together" as it is an editorial policy.The third - and perhaps most critical - has been the evolution of an incredibly intricate and democratic social order to keep this vast sprawling project in order.There are hundreds of thousands of "Wikipedians" who have contributed or edited articles. But the core community, according to Wales, is about 200 people who, by now, know each other quite well. Outside this inner-inner circle is a core of about 2,000 people who make more than 100 edits each in the last month. Beyond this, you have around 10,000 people who will have made more than five edits. There are administrators, bureaucrats, stewards and developers all with different levels of technical and administrative authority.Where individuals get into a dispute, such as an "edit war" where they are constantly undoing each others changes, or just an endless debate over a particular point, they can hold a vote on the issue. If this doesn't work, there is a formal mediation process, and if this fails, the case can go to an arbitration committee. In very extreme cases, Wales himself intervenes in his role as "benign dictator".Random acts of violence - such as Hitler's activities above - are not a major problem, ac cording to Wales, because they are clear to spot and obvious to redeem."When someone just writes 'fuck, fuck, fuck', we just fix it, laugh and move on," he says, "but the difficult social issues, are the borderline cases - people who do some good work, but who are also a pain in the neck."One such case was a contributor called Wik. "He violated some rules, but he also had a lot of supporters, so there was a huge debate over what we should do. Eventually, the arbitration committee decided he should be banned for a week."There are rewards as well as punishments. Those who have done good work - either for editing, or for dealing with vandalism - are awarded "BarnStars" to put on their profile page.This entire order is all there for everyone to see online. Policies and strategies are posted online, discussed and voted on. While the content develops automatically and anarchically, nothing happens to the social structure of Wikipedia without the consent of the core community.All of this, however, fails to impress their rivals over at Encyclopedia Britannica. During a 20-minute conference call, two of their most senior editors and their head of publicity, acknowledge that Wikipedia is a remarkable phenomenon, before getting their knives out.Executive editor, Ted Pappas, is the most extreme in his criticism: "The premise of Wikipedia is that continuous improvement will lead to perfection, that premise is completely unproven ... with many of the pieces you don't know who it's written by, and who the administrators are ... one of the administrators over seeing the political coverage openly encourages people to vote for John Kerry ... 30,000 articles were created by a bot &#91;an automated program that goes round causing havoc&#93; ... hyperlinks, bulletpoints and cut-and-paste press releases do not an encyclopedia entry make."Editor-in-chief Dale Hoiberg is no less damning: "People write on things they're interested in, and so many subjects don't get covered; and news events get covered in great detail. The entry on Hurricane Frances is five times the length of that on Chinese art, and the entry on Coronation Street is twice as long as the article on Tony Blair."Wales is quite sanguine when confronted with this assault. Pointing out that Wikipedia is still less than four years old and still improving. And, that he is looking at new techniques to improve the quality.His current plan is to create a "stable version" of some entries: in other words, one that has been fact-checked by one of a number of approved editors (although they are still working on the details of this). It is a radical change, but Wales is willing to do whatever it takes to give his project the authority it needs.The truth is that Wikipedia is far from finished, but even now, flaws and all, it is already one of the wonders of the digital age; and a pin-up for a growing movement that sees the internet evolving as a true "citizens' medium". However, Wales and his community of volunteers are not resting on their laurels. He is in negotiations to print part of the content, and distribute it in Africa as part of their ambition to "put a free encyclopedia in the hands of every person on the planet". Insane and over-ambitious? Definitely. But after everything they have achieved in the last three-and-a-half years, you would be equally insane to bet against them.
An excellent and thorough article posted by a variety of weblogs over the past couple of days reminded me of my intention to address the fascinating issue of censorship in videogames. The essay, written forfilibustercartoons.com, looks at Nintendo's historical "translation" of its titles from their Japanese homeland into the USA's more stringent interactive culture. Among the issues raised are the inclusion (and removal of) of blood, sex, cigarettes and crosses. Definitely worth a read for anyone interested in the relativity of cultural morality.Intercontinental censorship is strange and an often seemingly-illogical beast, and doesn't only exist within the chasm between West and East. For example, while publishers and trade bodies are willing to release titles like Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude in the UK,Australiahas outright banned it on the basis of hypersexualised immorality. Even within Europe there are marked differences in what is allowed and what isn't; Germany in particular insists that all death in games must be non-human. While that should significantly reduce the number of titles on the shelves, a minor graphical tweak - changing the colour of blood from red to green - means that entertainment such as Manhunt and GTA continue to earn a roaring trade. They have, however, bannedMedal of Honorand theWolfensteinseries because of political content that has been deemed inappropriate. Even more extreme, in Greece, playing a game in public is liable to land you a heftyfineor even a jail sentence.In the UK, where a ban on any product is likely to garner fiscal success, we've had our fair share of interactive faux pas. The most notable of those which have received a big fat "No" from the powers that be include:Thrill Kill: A mediocre beat-em-up featuring a PVC-clad sado-masochist dominatrix with a spine-cracking special move (later re-branded into the Wu Tang Clan's similarly mediocre fighter title,Shaolin Style)Postal: the appalling top-down shooter based on the real-life US news stories featuring overly irate mail handlersSex, Drugs, Rock n' Roll: a home-grown attempt to shock; this never-completed game featured oral sex, baths of baked beans and other rock n' roll treatsEndorfun: a strange mix of brain therapy without the drugs that claimed to stimulate the happy endorphins of the player's mind with pretty images and soft musicInterestingly, those titles which have been banned here are less-than-average games in the first place. Often their presence is only recognised because of the ban.For much more comprehensive information on banned games, head toWikipedia.
US home internet users are not nearly as safe online as they believe, according to the results of a study released today.Researchers for America Online and theNational Cyber Security Alliancefound most consumers have no firewall protection, outdated anti-virus software and dozens of spyware programmes secretly running on their computers.One beleaguered home user in the government-backed study had more than 1,000 spyware programmes running on his sluggish computer when researchers examined it.However 77% of 326 adults in 12 states had assured researchers in a telephone poll they were safe from online threats. Nearly as many people felt confident they were already protected specifically from viruses and hackers.When experts visited those same homes to examine computers, they found two-thirds of adults using anti-virus software that was not updated in at least seven days.Two-thirds of the computer users also were not using any type of protective firewall programme, and spyware was found on the computers of 80% of those in the study.Bill Mines, a personal trainer in South Riding, Virginia, was told his three-year-old Dell computer was found infected with viruses and more than 600 pieces of spyware surreptitiously monitoring his online activities."I was blown away," Mr Mines said. "I had a lot of viruses and other things I didn't know about. I had no idea things like this could happen."The internet always has had its share of risky neighbourhoods and dark alleys. But with increasingly sophisticated threats from hackers, viruses, spam emails and spyware, trouble is finding computer users no matter how cautiously they roam online.Internet providers, software companies and computer makers, spurred by the high costs of support calls from irritated customers - and fearful that frustrated consumers will stop buying new products - are making efforts to increase awareness of threats and provide customers with new tools to protect themselves.The survey participants, a cross-section of internet users, were selected in 22 cities and towns by an independent market analysis organisation, said AOL spokesman Andrew Weinstein.The alliance, a nonprofit group, is backed by theUS homeland security departmentand the federal trade commission, plus leading technology companies, including Cisco Systems, Microsoft, eBay and Dell.The group's chief, Ken Watson, said consumers suffer from complacency and a lack of expert advice on keeping their computers secure. "Just like you don't expect to get hit by a car, you don't believe a computer attack can happen to you," he said."There really is quite a perception gap," agreed Daniel W Caprio, the commerce department's deputy assistant secretary for technology policy. "Clearly there is confusion. We need to do a better job making information and practical tips for home users and small businesses available."Wendy Avino, an interior decorator in Lansdowne, Virginia, said researchers found 14 spyware programs on her borrowed laptop and noticed that her $50 (£27) anti-virus software was not properly configured to scan her computer at least monthly for possible infections."We don't go in funny chat rooms, I don't open funny mail," she said. "If it says 'hot girls,' I delete it. We do everything in the right way, so how does stuff get in there?"She complained she was misled into believing her commercial anti-virus and firewall programmes would protect her from all varieties of online threats; most do not detect common types of spyware."It is very complicated for the average home user," said Ari Schwartz, an expert on internet threats for the Centre for Democracy and Technology, a Washington civil liberties group."There's a lack of accountability all around, from consumers who don't believe they should have to do this to companies who blame the consumer. It's finger-pointing back and forth," Mr Schwartz said.Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, said the company spent nearly $1bn on its recent upgrade to improve security for customers using the latest version of its Windows software.AOL purchased full-page advertisements in major newspapers this month pledging better security for its subscribers. Dell has begun a campaign to educate customers how to detect and remove spyware themselves.The government is increasingly involved, too.The FTC this month filed its first federal court case over spyware. The house overwhelmingly approved two bills to increase criminal penalties and fines over spyware.
This Slashdot threadenticed me because of the subject matter, online poker (which Online wrote about two weeks ago)."I recently won a satellite tournament at Full Tilt Poker for entry into the World Poker Tour Final at Foxwoods Casino," writes the correspondent. "I picked up poker as a hobby about 4 months ago, and consider myself a decent player, maybe due to programming experience (analytical thinking). Any other programmers/computer people find that they can play poker better than the average person because of their computer experience?"There's something to be said for his thesis - after all, good programming takes a certain ability to crunch numbers and analyse. But probably anybody who has mathematical aptitude could give poker a go - particularly in games where the best players are usually the conservative ones.One commenterresponded: "I think that programmers tend to think that they are smarter than the average person".And I think there's something in that too; all of us, whatever our line of work, tend to think that there are things that set us apart from everyone else. Most professionals would like to consider themselves smarter than average: a programmer might like to think they're better at maths, a lawyer might like to think they're better at analysis, a journalist might like to think they're better with words (*cough*) - in the end, though, your job doesn't define you, or your abilities.After all, if all geeks were good at poker, they'd win everything.
Fable may have been the fastest selling Xbox game ever, but B.C., Peter Molyneux's other project, has had itsdevelopment suspended. "The decision to suspend work on any games project is always a very difficult one, particularly when it is a title with the potential of B.C.," Molyneux said in a statement. "We hope to revive the project at a later date and will endeavour to assign as many of the team as possible to other Lionhead projects." Darn, was really looking forward to this one, although at least Molyneux won't be able to hype this one to death. Lets hope we see it on a "future" platform in 2006/7.
"A preparatory school in Lancashire has become the first in Britain to allow parents to watch their children's progress from the comfort of their homes or offices," reports today'sTelegraph."Pupils at Sunnybank Preparatory School, Burnley, are filmed in their classrooms from the moment they start school to the moment they leave. Their parents can monitor their progress at any time of the day by logging on to a secure internet site. The system shows the school in real time, but recordings of specific events, good or bad, can be retrieved and saved on CDs.""Barbara Cross, the head teacher of the £950-a-term school, is delighted with the initiative. "It's working even better than we imagined," she said yesterday. "Parents who work away find it particularly useful.""
Either there's something in the water at the Ivy or a significant change in thinking is taking place among the broadcasting chattering classes. All of a sudden, the talk seems to be less of TVR, CRR and NAR and more P2P, IPTV and PVR*. And if you don't have the faintest idea what any of those tags mean, perhaps it's time to start swotting. When Sky's Dawn Airey, who made her reputation as director of programmes squeezing the last drops from Five's budget, starts baffling and alarming an industry dinner with talk of the brave new world of digital choice, something is clearly afoot.In a Royal Television Society speech last week, she warned Channel 4, Five and in particular ITV that they were living in the past and should invest in the future. Scheduling, she warned, would become a dying art as viewers began to create their own selection of programmes through personal hard disk recorders or broadband."My worry is that I still don't think the traditional broadcasting establishment fully understands the scale of the transformation that is taking place. And until they do, commercial terrestrial television as a whole may very well be sleep-walking its way to long-term oblivion," she said.Just the week before, BBC chairman Michael Grade was singing the praises of the BBC's investment in interactive TV, and Ofcom chairman Lord Currie was warning traditional broadcasters that they were doomed. Factor in BBC director general Mark Thompson's radical reworking of the corporation's bid for charter renewal, putting new ways of accessing its programmes at its heart, and it is clearly something that the industry cannot ignore.Lord Currie was unequivocal. "The rapid growth of first multi-channel, then digital, then PVRs and soon higher-speed broadband are simply the pre-tremors of the real volcanic eruption that technology is about to unleash," he said at yet another RTS event. "At the risk of being over-dramatic I would say that most traditional television broadcasters are today standing about the equivalent of one mile from Mount St Helens. When it blows, frankly, that will be too close and it will be too late to run."You'd think such explicit warnings would have broadcasting grandees choking on their rubber chicken, but they were dismissed by most as more pie in the sky future gazing. We've been here before of course. During the dotcom boom, youthful management consultants would march into the offices of broadcasting executives and rather pompously tell them they were about to be swept away by an on-demand, always-on, converged future. The temptation was to file the report in the bin and go back to worrying about what should fill the 8pm Sunday drama slot. And while Airey's comments can be explained to an extent by the BSkyB chip that appears to be standard issue to all new arrivals at the company, Lord Currie's call to arms is harder to dismiss.But the key difference this time is that the consumer is leading the way. Already, more than 4m households are connected to broadband and more than half the country has digital television. Almost all of us have a mobile phone, with increasing numbers already listening to their iPod or watching DVDs on the move - from there it's not much of a leap to portable video players in the pocket. By the time today's filesharing, multitasking, channel-surfing teenagers are tomorrow's homeowners, the television landscape will look radically different.Asked to name three companies that would benefit from this technological revolution, Airey nominated "Sky, Sky and Sky", while singling out ITV as particularly under threat. But, with subscriber growth hitting a ceiling, Sky is facing a new challenge. At Ofcom's behest, BT is cutting the prices it charges competitors to access the so-called "local loop" - the crucial last mile between the telephone exchange and the home. Of com is hoping that this will lead to a host of new services, from cheap voice calls to video-on-demand and broadcast TV, to be delivered over broadband networks. And in one fell swoop, provide effective competition for BSkyB in the pay TV world and BT in the telecoms world.With an installed base of 7.4 million subscribers, Sky has a huge head start, of course. But the fear for chief executive James Murdoch must be that IPTV, as it's called in the US, will make good on the promises that cable rivals have been failing to deliver on for years. Linear broadcast channels, combined with on-demand content from thousands of sources and integrated phone services could provide Sky with a new challenge.Murdoch Jnr, an enthusiastic early adopter, is on record as saying that "storage trumps bandwidth", meaning that Sky is gambling on getting hard disk recorders into homes that can store hundreds of hours of content to beat content delivered by broadband. It's a threat that he's clearly taking seriously - with a massive &#163;450m investment programme to buttress Sky from the threat to come. The wave of advertising for London-based broadband and on-demand service HomeChoice has just begun. Expect BT to make announcements by January signalling huge investment in on-demand TV services and broadcasting over broadband, together with plans to deliver high speed internet to Freeview customers.France Telecom, owner of Wanadoo, which has even deeper pockets, has already launched in France and is planning an imminent assault on broadcasting here. Microsoft, which has been struggling for years and wasted billions of dollars trying to break into television, believes it might have finally cracked it by offering its software to network providers to provide converged broadcast, on-demand and telephony services within a Windows-style environment.Among traditional broadcasters, it is clear that only the BBC has really started thinking about what the shift from linear TV to personalised TV really means. The nature of the ITV beast means that chief executive Charles Allen is more concerned with the next quarter than the next decade. But with each passing results presentation, he might just be edging a little closer to that volcano's edge.* TVR - TV Rating; CRR - Contract Rights Renewal; NAR - Network Advertising Revenue; P2P - Peer to Peer (filesharing); IPTV - Internet Protocol Television (TV over broadband lines); PVR - Personal Video Recorder
Fraudsters are tricking bargain hunters who use the online shop Amazon into handing over money for non-existent goods.Shoppers are lured away from the secure area of the site, best known as a bookstore but also a virtual meeting place for buyers and sellers, and persuaded to wire money for items which they do not receive.The scam is similar to one operated by con artists who target users of the eBay site, as revealed in the Guardian earlier this month.Both eBay and Amazon have been criticised for not doing enough to warn users about the cons. One scam on the "Marketplace" area of Amazon's site - a cyberspace trading area - involves an organisation calling itself Bargain Ltd.Dave, a health professional from the north of England, was one of many who spotted that it was offering a &#163;500 digital camera for &#163;200. He sent an email to the organisation registering his interest.The supposed sellers said they were "Japanese wholesalers on a three-day contract approved by Amazon" who as part of a "strategy towards unleashing our website next month are offering Amazon customers the chance to purchase products at wholesale prices".The email came with a message falsely claiming to come from Amazon which said the seller had been authorised to collect payment "via bank transfer only" rather than through the site's secure payment system.Also in the email were details of Bargain Ltd, including a company registration number and date of incorporation.The details are accurate. There is such a company registered with Companies House - Bargain Ltd is in a name owned by a firm based in Willenhall, West Midlands, called Poundland, which specialises in cut-price goods.However it has not offered goods on Amazon. The fraudsters adopted the name to give their operation respectability.Poundland has put a warning about the scam on its website. Its operations controller, Mike Gray, said around six victims of the con had contacted it. One had given the fraudsters &#163;500.Mr Gray said he believed Amazon ought to put more prominent warnings on its site. "There is a huge amount of legal information on the site. The information is there but it is not easy to find."Dave, who has asked not to be identified, fearing that criminal gangs might be involved, agreed: "Amazon should at least post warning signs that are clearly visible rather than embedded in the small print."Suspecting a con, Dave did not go through with the deal but reported it to Amazon's security team earlier this month.Amazon claims it takes such con merchants off the site immediately. However last weekend the bogus Bargain Limited popped back up on Amazon, again offering cut-price digital cameras. The con merchants had vanished by late Monday morning but returned later in the week, suggesting that while the site can remove the fraudsters, it is struggling to stop them returning.The Guardian contacted another dubious seller on Amazon expressing an interest in a cut-price digital camera.The purported seller claimed to have bought the camera from the "second largest digital cameras &#91;sic&#93; store from my country &#91;Romania&#93;". He said the store went bankrupt, allowing him to get "a great deal buying the Fuji", and added he would send the camera once we transferred &#163;200 to him.When we said we suspected a con he suggested sending &#163;100 - at which point he would dispatch the camera - and forwarding the balance once we had received it. He concluded: "Is this OK with you? If so give me your full name and address and choose a shipping service you want me to use. Yes or no?"Amazon insisted there were sufficient warnings on its site about the hazards of contacting sellers directly.
The benchmark of official author sites iswww.stephenking.comwhich includes embarrassing childhood photos, maps and character lists as well as keeping fans abreast of forthcoming projects and the seemingly endless movie adaptations of his work. Cult fantasy author Neil Gaiman (www.neilgaiman.com) and sci-fi king William Gibson (www.williamgibsonbooks.com) are keen blog writers who both occasionally guiltily admit that they probably should be writing books instead of random thoughts. Anyone who's read Mitch Albom's The Five People You Meet In Heaven can find the real Eddie atwww.albomfivepeople.com, while readers looking for unpublished work will be well rewarded by Bumps In My Head (www.michaelchabon.com), which gathers odd bits and pieces by the author of The Wonder Boys, and by TC Boyle (www.tcboyle.com), who serves up excerpts galore.
Zodiac 2Gaming PDAWith Sony, Nintendo, Nokia, a company called Gizmondo and now Tapwave releasing new handheld gaming products over the next few months, it feels as though if you so much as blink these days, someone tries to sell you a new way to distract yourself on public transport. The sleek Zodiac 2 separates itself from the pack by being a functional business machine (using the excellent Palm operating system) that also happens to feature an analogue joystick, wide colour screen and shoulder buttons. It can talk to your mobile, surf the net with the right connection and you can use its touch screen when playing games, although the initial batch (including an underwhelming Doom 2 conversion and a highly addictive take on Puzzle Bobble) make scant use of it.&#183;Tapwave, 128MB memory £330; 32MB memory (Zodiac 1) £270Viewtiful JoePlaystation 2When Joe's date gets sucked into the screen during a monster movie, he leaps in after her to save the day by battering the legions of bad guys usually toppled by absent screen hero Captain Blue. This weirdness is mirrored in the artfully dirty-looking cartoon visuals and absurdly inventive side-scrolling war waged purely with fists and feet. Your superhero powers allow you to slow the action down, speed it up to the point you actually catch fire, or zoom in for truly lethal combos. The PS2 remix adds Devil May Cry's Dante, lovingly recreated in stubby cartoon form, complete with dangerous new moves, and a lower difficulty level than the GameCube version (which stopped only just short of mental torture) although there's still Hard Mode if you like your challenges actively punishing. Utter fighting perfection for just &#163;20.&#183;Capcom, £20ObscurePC, PS2, XBOXTaking the classic teen slasher premise - high school kids with underdeveloped fear reflexes wander around darkened, monster-infested basements in search of friends, and, more often than not, find a sticky end - Obscure mixes familiar survival horror devices with its own innovations, first of which is the ability to team up with a friend in co-op mode. Meeting new kids as you make your way through the high school means you can use their skills; one knows whether any items are left in the room you're searching, another gives hints as to what to do next, but if they get killed they're gone forever. Levels conducted by torchlight, terrifying jumps as beasts spring through walls or windows and a tension that feels all too much like being in a particularly nasty horror film make this an effective white-knuckle joypad ride.&#183;Ubisoft, £30-£40
The "neurons are growing on top of a multi-electrode array and form a living 'brain' that's hooked up to a flight simulator on a desktop computer. When information on the simulated aircraft's horizontal and vertical movements are fed into the brain by stimulating the electrodes, the neurons fire away in patterns that are then used to control its 'body' -- the simulated aircraft," reportsWired News."It's as if the neurons control the stick in the aircraft, they can move it back and forth and left and right," said Thomas DeMarse, a professor of biomedical engineering at the University of Florida who has been working on the project for more than a year. "The electrodes allow us to record the activity from the neurons and stimulate them so we can listen to the conversation among the neurons and also input information back into the neural network.""Granted, this is just a handful of neurons in a dish," said Potter, an assistant professor at Georgia Tech's neuroengineering laboratory. "It isn't a full-blown brain. It doesn't have a real body. But with this kind of system you can literally watch these things compute and you have a chance to learn how the brain does its computation."Comment:see alsoDeMarse, T. B., Wagenaar, D. A., Blau, A. W. and Potter, S. M. (2001). "The Neurally Controlled Animat: Biological Brains Acting with Simulated Bodies." Autonomous Robots 11: 305-310. Reprint (600 Kb PDF) .
"Kazaa's long-standing position as the most popular online file-sharing software appears to be over. Last month, the daily average of file-swappers on the FastTrack peer-to-peer network, which includes Kazaa and related programs, was surpassed for the first time by users on the eDonkey/Overnet network, according to online tracking firm BayTSP Inc," reportsAP."eDonkey/Overnet averaged 2.54 million users a day while FastTrack averaged 2.48 million, the firm said. Kazaa users make up the largest proportion of FastTrack, said BayTSP spokesman Jim Graham."
"Research In Motion's quad-band BlackBerry 7100t with PDA capabilities is a GSM/GPRS (850/900/1800/1900 MHz) cellular handset that can make and receive phone calls in more than 100 countries around the world."Mark Long, wireless.newsfactor.com has a reviewhereorhere.Comment:This smartphone has a novel keypad that is well worth a look. I tried it, very briefly, and liked it a lot.
Another week, another steady stream of gaming goodness here on Gamesblog. But in case you're only a weekend driver on the highways and byways of the information superhighweb, here's a roundup of what's been going on...MondayGrand Theft Audio - Rockstar unveils another thumping soundtrack for its next blockbusterGaming with a disability - and controlling Pong with your mindTuesdayPick a President on your mobile phoneWhen admen attack: commercials invade our gamesWednesdayMobile phone 3D chipset unveiledHalo beats the piratesIt's our amazing Sims 2 giveaway!Greg gets thumped in the new Pro Evolution SoccerIs it time to give up on Mac gaming?ThursdayGaming goes multiplayer, at lastA boom in games start-upsMario decor for discerning gamersFridayGamesblog's roundup of this week's games releases
Jef Raskin is the subject of this week'sTalk Timein Online. Since it's being discussed elsewhere, it seems churlish not to have a post here to enable comments.It should perhaps be mentioned that while Raskin started the Macintosh project, he didn't finish it, having been ousted by Jobs in 1982. If the final design had been Raskin's machine, it would probably have been more like theCanon CAT, which is what Raskin did next.In particular, Raskin regarded the mouse-driven graphical user interface as a dead end, and the CAT had neither.Raskin's idea was to define an appliance for people who didn't really want a computer. The evolution of the Macintosh since 1984 has taken it further and further away from the appliance idea, and every year it has become more and more like a standard personal computer. From that point of view, Raskin is right: "there is only a little difference between using a Mac and a Windows machine".
I spent a good while looking at today's list of newly available games before anything even resembling a decent purchase emerged from the quagmire. After the excitement of Pro Evolution Soccer 4 last friday, this was always going to a sickly runt of a release weekend. However, therearea couple of stand-out titles: Evolution's latest officially licensed rally-'em-upWorld Rally Championship 4 (PS2)provides the usual sideways-skidding thrills and boasts an interesting 16 player online championship mode. And if you're in the market for a new team-based super hero action RPG thenX-Men Legendsis your only option this weekend…It boasts a great range of combat moves, nice locations, all your favourite X-Men and mutant baddies, and a compelling series of missions. Well, compelling for about four or five hours until you realise you've been playing variations on this game for the last decade, and X-Men has very few new ideas to lob at you.Beyond this twosome, there's the interestingly titledVietcong: Purple Haze (PC), a first-person Vietnam strategy shooter where you take on the role of Jimi Hendrix. That might not be true, but I've had my fill of 'Nam shooters, thanks, and can't be bothered to check it out. Then we have a sort of also-ran football manager face-off between Codemasters'LMA Manager 2005 (PS2, Xb)and EA'sTotal Club Manager 2005 (PC, Xb, PS2). Definitely more McLaren vs Bruce than Wenger vs Fergie.I'd also like to mention the mobile version ofColin McRae Rally 2005, launched earlier this week by Digital Bridges. It's possibly the first ever 3D-style driving game that's actually worth playing. The handling is exciting enough to offer a little back-end slide, there's vehicle damage and turbo-pop, and cute little landscapes open up in front of your tiny car. Sometimes I don't know whether to play it or stroke the screen lovingly…And finally, special mention must go to Trivial Pursuit Unhinged (PC), a title that perfectly sums up how most of us feel at the end of a long game when we're just trying to roll the correct number so we can get into the centre, answer the question and flee to the merciful release of bed.
"Rather than imported games with a high content of sex and gore, the idea is to get young Chinese interested in more refined products, some of them based on classics of the nation's literary canon, according to the Xinhua news agency."The plan is to develop altogether 100 high-quality games over the next four years at a cost of between one and two billion yuan (120 and 240 million dollars), Xinhua said, citing the Press and Publication Administration," according to anAFP report.The story says the Chinese government's "Professional Commission of Online Games will launch a national club for game-players and build a server of suitable games, recommending 'healthy games to juveniles as an effort to clean up young people's online environment'."Comment:It would be nice if someone could dig up a shortlist of the first 10 titles. Either way, a recentBBC Newsstory reported that "Street children in Argentina's capital Buenos Aires are learning new skills, thanks to their passion for video games, say researchers".
"Microsoft's third quarter results have beaten its own expectations, with a profit of $2.9bn on revenue of $9.19bn," reportsCNet."Microsoft ended the quarter with $64.4bn in cash and short-term investments, compared with $60.6bn at the end of June."As it typically does, Microsoft also gave its forecast for the PC market, reiterating its expectation for slower growth in the coming year. The company said it expects 8 percent to 10 percent growth for its fiscal year, which ends in June, with business PC growth continuing to outpace that of consumer machines. On the server side, the company said it also [sees] things unchanged from July with an expectation of 13 percent to 15 percent growth."
