The regular reader(s) of&nbsp;this column might recall that I have this fun game I play with my girlfriend called Guess The Price Of The&nbsp;Car. A new car turns up; I say, "Guess how much?"; she pretends to be bored, sighs, says, "£15,000?"; I say, "Ha, wrong: twenty-six three seven zero". And that's it, really, end of the game.Well, there's more. Depending on how well GTPOTC has gone, I might then ask, "So, what do you think of it?" ("It" being the car). Not so much a game now, more like an attempt at a conversation, and a cunning way of eliciting another, non-expert opinion for my article. It's not always successful. Often she'll say she doesn't think anything about it. Or that it's too big, or the wrong colour. But this time she says, "Mmm, quite nice."Which might sound like faint praise, but if you knew my missus, you'd know this was the equivalent of other people jumping up and down, screaming for joy. She likes the Audi A3 Cabriolet.And it's not hard to see why. More elegant than the model it replaces, it's very pretty, in a classy, posh kind of way (ifKate Middletonwere a car, she might be an Audi A3 Cabriolet – no jokes about wanting a ride or getting the top off, please, Mr&nbsp;Scudamore). Cute enough to turn heads, but not so brash or flash that people will either get envy-anger or try to buy drugs from you.The poshness continues inside. Everything looks and feels nice. Some of the usual problems with convertibles – noise, a feeling of less rigidity – aren't really noticeable. Yes, there's not a whole lot of room in the back, but you didn't get this car for room in the back.The top can come off on the hoof – at up to 31mph – though I think it's more dignified to pull over, and this car is bringing out my dignified side. If there are just the two of you, a wind deflector keeps you snug and unbuffeted. With kids in the back, the deflector can't be used; still, you're a posh family, you're used to a bit of wind, from Scotland and yachting holidays etc.To drive? This is the least powerful (138bhp) model in the A3 Cabriolet range, so it won't set your world alight. It's calm and effortless, though, and it has a neat trick whereby to save fuel it quietly shuts down two of its four cylinders when they're not required.Anyway, I'm not after cheap thrills, I'm cruising poshly through the home counties. I'm Kate Middleton... or am I driving Kate Middleton? No, because I'm driving my girlfriend, who's absolutely nothing like KM. But she thinks  it's quite nice, and that's a result. Next birthday, perhaps.Audi A3 Sport 1.4 TFSI CabrioletPriceFrom £26,370Top speed134mphAcceleration0-60mph in 9.1 secondsCombined fuel consumption56.5mpgCO2emissions114g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating8/10
Ai Weiwei&apos;s voice is shrill and rhythmic, echoing against the walls of the Tate Modern. His chants in Mandarin could almost be poetry, but in translation, he is reciting the names of all 5,196 children and young people who died in 2008&apos;s Sichuan earthquake in China.Ai originally created the piece as part of his Nian, or remembrance work, on the second anniversary of the earthquake in 2010. It took the efforts of 3,500 people on Ai&apos;s blog and through Twitter to collate the names of all the victims; the Chinese government refused to release any information and was accused of causing the tragedy through badly-built schools and government buildings.But Ai&apos;s new recording, as well as the text names of all the victims, is now being made available to a group of technologists and artists at an ambitious art hack this weekend, alongside contributions from fellow artists including David Hockney, Marina Abramovic and Jeremy Deller. Web inventor Tim Berners Lee has also contributed data.The video, audio and text data they contribute will be used for the creative coding event. Nearly 150 rival coders and artists will use parts of the data to create their own digital works during an intense 24-hour hack, with prizes award tonight for the winners.The hack in the Tate Modern&apos;s main Turbine Hall is being used to celebrate the launch of The Space, an online arts platform created by the BBC and the Arts Council of Britain.Speaking by video message Ai, who has not been allowed to leave China since 2012, said he welcomed a new platform for artists to explore. &quot;Let&apos;s make an effort: a world with more possibilities and new ways to communicate and express ourselves,&quot; he said.An excerpt from Ai's recording.The SpaceThe event tasks participants with the brief to &quot;take any data and turn it into a work of art.&quot; As well as Ai Weiwei&apos;s data, other organisations offering up information include the Tate, the Open Data Institute, and the Guardian, which is also sending a team of 14 developers to take part in the hackathon.The Space will showcase the work of digital artists from across the world, commissioning 50 works a year from artists, both known and unknown, putting out an open call forapplications.&quot;We ask anyone over the age of 18, anywhere in the world, who has a brilliant idea, to send that idea to us,&quot; says Ruth Mackenzie, The Space&apos;s launch director. &quot;&apos;Out of the best ideas, we&apos;ll commission projects, and share them back with the world. We believe in talent wherever it may come, anywhere in the world.&quot;One of the first pieces to be showcased on The Space is a collaboration between Ai Weiwei and Danish-Icelandic artist Olafur Eliasson named Moon, an interactive digital work on which users are invited to leave their own mark, drawn or written, on a virtual moon&apos;s surface. The piece, which will be presented as part of Hack the Space, hearkens back to Eliasson&apos;s monumental installation The Weather Project, the very first artwork installed in the Tate&apos;s turbine hall.&quot;It&apos;s interactive, which means that anyone anywhere in the world can post their own art,&quot; said Mackenzie. &quot;They can contribute to transforming the moon, they can go to the moon in an artistic sort of way. And we hope that we may get the chance to post some work in progress from the hack up on the moon.&quot;The data-driven theme of the hack day was underscored by another backer of the event, the Open Data Institute&apos;s Professor Sir Nigel Shadbolt. &quot;One of the privileges and thrills of my life is to have worked with Tim Berners Lee, who invented and actually gave us the web, and made it an open space. In the research we do we&apos;re trying to develop the next generation of web technology. But Tim&apos;s vision, and what we&apos;re trying to achieve, was to see the world as humanity connected.&quot;&quot;The Open Data Institute was premised around the idea that data is often described as the new oil, actually it&apos;s much more interesting than a fossil fuel. Fortunately it&apos;s renewable; in fact, it&apos;s a superabundant resource, and one of the challenges will be how we bring our imaginations to bear on using that.&quot;We understand that visualisation is important, making data beautiful and accessible, but there&apos;s a deeper opportunity here. And I think that we see data as an essential part of an artistic enterprise. It&apos;s about creativity, and the sprit that animates art is essential here.&quot;•China&apos;s censorship can never defeat the internet, says Ai Weiwei
A new indie video games event is coming to London – and I&apos;m partially responsible. Last year, myself, games producer Georg Backer and James Dance, manager of the Loading games bar, decided to run an alternative to the giant E3 exhibition in London – mostly because we were all a bit cross to be missing out that year. We organised it in three weeks, cheekily calling it E-Too, and inviting dozens of small development studios, as well as the likes of Sony, Sega and Ubisoft.It was a great succcess, with hundreds of attendees, some wonderful games and a lot of fun. This year the event is back, with the the same philosophy of showcasing games by smaller studios - but with a new more sensible name, Radius. Today, we&apos;ve been able to announcethe full-line-up of over 50 titles, set to be shown at the very sleek White Space venue from June 19-21.Among the titles are Mike Bithell&apos;s historical cyberpunk stealth game, Volume, stylish gravitational puzzler orbitalis, riotous eighties-inspired co-op blaster Tango Fiesta and the bizzare Ludam Dare entry, Super Rude Bear Resurrection. There will also be surprise additions to the agenda, potentially including several big titles from mainstream publishers.And once again, each evening will see a live chat show, set to be streamed over Twitch, where we talk to developers and surpise guests and generally do silly things for the camera and audience. Last year this included two guest apparences by comedian and actor Rufus Hound, and a musical interlude by Bafta events organiser Dave Green performing cover versions on &quot;upcycled&quot; Guitar Hero controllers.As usual, it has been a scramble to get things organised, but thanks to the heroic efforts of Backer, the assistance of UKIE chairman Andy Payne, and the sponsorship of Sega, Mike Bithell and Mastertronic, it has come alive at the last moment. We wanted to celebrate the joy and sense of community in the British games scene, and the British games scene has come out to help in their droves. We ran a special Radius E3 press conference event at the new Loading Bar in Dalston last week and over 200 people turned up.Radius will be free to attend during the days, but the evening event has a small charge (which will include free digital copies of up to three games). This is a totally non-profit-making endeavour, born out of our collective passion for independent game development and a lack of interest in making money. It&apos;s just fun to get a lot of nice people in a room playing, sharing and talking about video games. Please do come along if you can.•Radius Exhbition runs from June 19-21. Entry for the day event are free, but those wishing to attendneed to apply for tickets in advance.
Discount travel and ticketing company Priceline is buying OpenTable, the online restaurant reservation business, for $2.6bn in an all-cash deal that will expand it into a new business segment.&quot;Travellers are diners,&quot; said Priceline&apos;s chief executive Darren Huston. &quot;It&apos;s the same customers. There&apos;s opportunity to cross-promote brands.&quot;Priceline will pay $103 per share, a 46% premium on OpenTable&apos;s closing price on Thursday of $70.43. Shares of OpenTable soared $33.59, or 47.7%, to $104.02 - above the offer price - in morning trading Friday.Founded 15 years ago, OpenTable finds seats for more than 15 million diners per month at more than 31,000 restaurants in the US, UK, Japan, German and Mexico. It has 700 employees.OpenTable, available via a web browser or app, lets users make restaurant reservations for free. Its revenues come from charging restaurants fees for the bookings. Users can also read reviews of the restaurants and view menus through the website.Around 40% of bookings come through the mobile app in the US, and one-third in the UK and Germany. About 20 restaurants are currently piloting a direct payment model where diners&apos; bills and tips are charged and paid via the app. That would mean diners could move on from restaurants more quickly, and thus increase the available table time for new customers.&quot;OpenTable is not just about making reservations online,&quot; Matthew Roberts, OpenTable&apos;s chief executive, told the Guardian last week. &quot;It&apos;s also about maximising the efficiency of restaurants, getting the maximum number of &apos;turns&apos; per table.&quot;The table reservations company will still be based in San Francisco, and will operate as an independent business led by its current management team.Huston said Priceline&apos;s first goal is to expand OpenTable internationally. Users can already book restaurants through OpenTable in London, Berlin, Hong Kong and other cities, but Huston said it wanted to bring it to more cities. Since Priceline already has &quot;offices in every major city in the world,&quot; doing so should be seamless, he said.OpenTable is also working on making it easier to sign up new restaurants to its service, said Huston. The company is working on creating a cloud-based system instead of using the hardware it currently needs restaurants to install to use OpenTable.At Priceline, an average of more than 1 million guests stay in accommodations booked through one of brands each night. It has more than 480,000 properties in more than 200 countries and territories worldwide.Based in Norwalk, Connecticut, Priceline Group changed its name in April from Priceline.com to better reflect its overall business. Its brands include Booking.com, priceline.com, agoda.com, KAYAK and rentalcars.com.Both companies&apos; boards unanimously approved the transaction, which is targeted to close in the third quarter.Shares of Priceline rose $5.89 to $1,231.89 in morning trading.•Growing potential of UK tech startups promoted by UK tech reception
Apple has begun a &quot;voluntary exchange&quot; of southern European-style USB adapters shipped to 37 countries between October 2009 and September 2012, because they could overheat and pose a safety risk.The company says it will offer a free exchange of the adapters, which were provided with the iPhone 3GS, 4 and 4S in countries ranging from Albania to Vietnam - though not the UK. But the move is not defined as a recall because it has not been ordered by any official body.&quot;We have voluntarily decided to exchange every affected power adapter for a new, redesigned adapter, free of charge. We encourage customers to exchange any affected adapter for a new one as soon as possible,&quot; the company says.Apple hasn&apos;t described the nature of the fault, or how many chargers were found to have the problem. While there have been a number of cases of fires and even electrocutions linked to the use of Apple-style adaptors in Asia, they have been linked to use of almost identical counterfeits which lack sufficient insulation systems to protect users.In 2008Apple ran a USB adapter exchange programaffecting &quot;ultracompact&quot; adapters used in the US, Japan, Canada, Mexico and a number of Latin American countries. In that case the problem was that the flat &quot;blade&quot; plug pins could pull out too easily.•Customers who have an affected charger - identified by the numbering &quot;Model A1300&quot; on the top right and the &quot;CE&quot; mark being outlined in grey - can swap it at an Apple Store or via an authorised service provider. Claimants will need their iPhone for verification of purchase, Apple says.•Huaquiangbei: the mega market with every smartphone part - gallery
I am just about to upgrade from XP Home to Windows 7 Professional and have been thinking about ways of making and keeping the system faster. Putting the operating system on an SSD would be one thing, but how about also having a separate drive for all non-OS installed programs, downloads, and files? Would you recommend this or, indeed, one for programs and related files, and one for other data, such as photographs, audio files, text documents, etc. If so, how should I go about it?AlanWhen you&apos;re moving to a new PC, or even installing a new operating system, it&apos;s important to think about where you are going to store data. This won&apos;t necessarily make your PC run any faster. However, it will make it easier for you to keep track of irreplaceable data, and make backup copies.One of the problems with the DOS-based versions of Windows (95, 98, 98SE, Me) and, to a lesser extent, Windows XP was a tendency to slow down over time, under the weight of accumulated cruft. I used to do a clean reinstallation every 18-24 months. The good news is that Windows 7 doesn&apos;t suffer from this problem, or at least, not to a significant extent. I&apos;m running Windows 7 on a laptop and Windows 7 Pro on a desktop, and have not yet needed to reinstall either operating system. (Windows 7 has a Resource Monitor and a Performance Monitor so you can track how it&apos;s doing.)This also means there&apos;s not such a big advantage to having your hard drive divided into two partitions, or having two separate drives. In the old days, it was useful to have the operating system and programs on drive C: and all your data on D: because if you wanted to reinstall the OS, you could reformat C: without worrying about losing data. That&apos;s still the case, of course, but it&apos;s not as important if you don&apos;t expect to have to reinstall the OS.Another advantage of having two drives was that it made backups simpler. Basically, almost everything on C: could be replaced either by reloading programs from disc or by downloading new versions from the net. Almost everything on D: couldn&apos;t easily be replaced, such as personal documents and photos, and music files ripped from audio CDs.I say &quot;almost everything on C:&quot; because Microsoft and various software houses don&apos;t make it easy. Microsoft stores things on the C: drive under different user account names (C:\users\jack etc), while some programs like to store data in their own directories. This makes sense because the vast majority of PC users don&apos;t pay any attention to where and how things are stored, so developers try to organise their data for them. But it means that if you do care, then you have to change each program&apos;s default settings to point to the folders you want it to use.Note that there are privacy implications to moving data. People who have limited or guest accounts on Windows – including children – only have access to their own programs and data on C:, and to common programs. But they can probably access anything on the D: drive, unless you block them.Partitions, drives and foldersFrom a software point of view, it doesn&apos;t usually matter if you have (a) two separate hard drives, (b) one large hard drive split into two or more partitions, or (c) a separate folder that you use in the same way as a hard drive. From a hardware point of view, having two separate drives provides more resilience: it&apos;s unlikely that both the C: and D: drives will fail at the same time. But remember, having one drive with two partitions – also called C: and D: and working as separate drives -- doesn&apos;t provide the same resilience. If the physical hard drive fails, then both drives fail. You can copy files from C: to a partition called D: but you still don&apos;t have a backup. You only have a backup if you copy the files to one or more external hard drives, and/or an online cloud-based service such as CrashPlan, Backblaze, Carbonite or Mozy.My current desktop PC has one large (1TB) hard drive. Instead of partitioning it, I created a folder called MAIN, which I use almost exactly like the D: partition pre-installed on my laptop&apos;s hard drive. (I have no idea why I picked that name, but the caps make it stand out.) I put all my irreplaceable data in that folder. Obviously, it has a large number of subfolders such as Audio files (for interviews, etc), Documents, Movies, Music, Photographs, Work etc. Each folder has numerous subfolders, to make things easier to find. For example, my Work folder contains a Guardian folder, which has folders for Ask Jack,Netbytes, Obituaries,Technophileand so on.The main point of MAIN is that I can quickly take a backup of this one 132MB folder, or useFreeFileSyncto update the current backup on an external hard drive. It&apos;s manageable, so I&apos;m more likely to do it. But what you do will depend on how much data you have, and how often it changes. If you have a large collection of music or video files, you might want to have these in separate folders, outside MAIN (or whatever). This is a particularly good idea if you share these media folders over your home network.I said &quot;it doesn&apos;t usually matter if you have two separate hard drives&quot;, but sometimes it does. For example, as you suggest, you can put the operating system on an SSD (solid-state drive) and large data files on a traditional hard drive, to take advantage of the SSD&apos;s extra speed. However, this is only because SSDs are so expensive. If you could afford a 500GB or 1TB SSD, then you could use that for everything.Another case is when applications use such large data files that disk throughput makes a difference to performance. For example, professional photo and video editing programs such as those in Adobe Creative Suite have their own &quot;scratch files&quot; (temporary disk storage areas) where they store vast amounts of transitory data. Operating systems also have scratch files or &quot;page files&quot; such as pagefile.sys in Windows. In this case, you can get better performance if the two scratch files are on different physical hard drives, because that provides up to twice as much throughput to disk.When rendering high-definition video, you may want to use one hard drive for read operations and caching but use a separate (preferably clean) hard drive for writing the rendered file.Moving data from C: to D:One of Ask Jack&apos;s frequently asked questions is, to quote a very recent example, &quot;my C: drive is almost full but D: drive is 95% empty. How do I move programmes etc to D:?&quot; I&apos;ve answered this a few times, most recently inWhen your C: drive is full and D: is still empty…(October 2010) andCan I make space on my computer by moving files from drive C: to D?(January 2013). If you have this problem, please refer to these earlier answers.If you&apos;re setting up a new PC, think about where you&apos;re going to store data so that it doesn&apos;t become a problem in the future. If you&apos;re installing Windows from scratch, this is a good time to consider whether you want to have one large hard drive or divide it into two or more partitions, and if so, how big the partitions should be. Following the change from the old and inefficient FAT (File Allocation Table) system for formatting hard drives to Microsoft&apos;sNTFS (New Technology File System), I think it&apos;s generally better to go for one large hard drive – unless you have an SSD.
Bad news if you&apos;re a PC maker: the research company IDC&apos;s latest forecast says that total shipments this year will fall by 6% compared to 2013 to 296.3m, itself a year when shipments fell by a record 10% to 315.1m.IDC&apos;slatest longer-range forecast to 2018is also gloomy about PC prospects in emerging markets – previously the source of growth.But there&apos;s bad news for tablet makers too. IDC hasslashed its forecast for future tablet sales, based on slowing replacement cycles which put them closer to PCs than smartphones.Nor is there good news for those making &quot;2-in-1&quot; devices – PCs with detachable keyboards such as Microsoft&apos;s Surface or Lenovo&apos;s Yoga range. IDC forecasts that only 9.9m will be shipped in 2014, and that even by 2018 they will only comprise 27.4m - equivalent to 8% of the tablet market (in which it classes them), or 9% of the PC market for laptops and desktops.IDC&apos;s forecast for 2014 was released before Intelraised its forecast revenuesfor this year, on the basis of expected higher business PC shipments, and said that it thought there would be &quot;some&quot; revenue growth this year rather than its previous &quot;approximately flat&quot; outlook.Although IDC&apos;s forecast goes out as far as four years into the future, it has consistently guided downwards on PC sales - and those lower estimates have tended to be correct, according to a time series of the forecasts collected by the Guardian.IDC's forecast for mature market desktop/portable and emerging market desktop/portable, and tablets (including 2-in-1s). Photograph: /Guardian/IDCIn the graph above, each vertical line is a forecast made at a different time; earlier forecasts for each year are on the left of each series. The trend has been towards lower PC sales (the aggregate stack of blue, green and red) - and, now, lower forecast tablet sales (the orange line).Whereas emerging markets such as China and Africa have previously been the source of growth for PC sales, IDC is now lowering its future forecasts both for desktop and portable machines. Those point to sales of both desktops and portable machines being lower in 2018 than in 2013 in those countries; in aggregate they will be almost equal with 2014&apos;s forecast total of 163m units.For developed markets such as the north America and Europe, the story is even worse: they will fall from around 133m units in 2013 and 2014 to 123.4m in 2018, says IDC.The PC market has slowed dramatically since 2011 as it has moved to a &quot;replacement&quot; market for the existing install base of around 1.6bn machines, while smartphone sales in particular have taken off, passing PCs at the end of 2010 and now on course to ship 1.2bn units in 2014 alone.Emerging shifts - away from PCs&quot;2014 represents an important shift for the PC market in emerging regions,&quot; said Jay Chou, IDC&apos;s senior research analyst. &quot;Shipments in these parts of the world are expected to contract in double digits - nearly 20m units fewer - compared to 2013. Political and economic instability in many of these markets are key factors affecting short-term intake, but a fundamental shift toward computing across the device spectrum represents a broader transition.&quot;The problem for PC makers is that smartphones and tablets - and especially large-screened phones known as &quot;phablets&quot; - are eating into the potential for PC companies.The problems are evident in the financial results of PC makers such as Taiwan&apos;s Asus and Acer, which each saw revenues from their PC divisions fall by 20% year-on-year during the first quarter of 2014 on shipments that were down 10% and 20% respectively. Japan&apos;s Sony is exiting the PC market completely, while Korea&apos;s LG is believed to be cutting back substantially. Dell, once the world&apos;s largest PC maker, went private last year amid growing pressure on PC margins. Only China&apos;s Lenovo, which bought IBM&apos;s PC business in 2005, has shown consistently improving profit margins on PCs.But PC makers that had hoped to find refuge in tablets might also be discouraged by IDC&apos;s forecast on tablets (including 2-in-1 models). While it is forecasting 19.4% growth in 2014, that is down from an explosive 51.6% in 2013 - suggesting that the market is already hitting saturation of sorts in some areas.IDC&apos;s expectation that tablet sales would outstrip those of PCs in the last quarter of 2013 didn&apos;t come to fruition - and now it seems that replacement cycles for tablets are more like four to five years, rather than the two or three years some makers had hoped.Tablet wars: slate v 2-in-1In data supplied exclusively to the Guardian, IDC now forecasts that tablet shipments in 2017 will hit 323.6m, of which 300m will be &quot;slate&quot; tablets such as the iPad, compared to a 2-in-1 market of 23.6m and combined desktop and laptop PC market of 289.6m units.In that, IDC forecasts that consumer buyers will still be the largest segment of the tablet and 2-in-1 market, taking 82% - or 265m units - while the remaining 18%, or 58m, will go to commercial buyers.But the rapid price erosion that had been seen in tablet prices seems to be slowing, IDC said, as so-called &quot;white box&quot; vendors - who offering cheap devices which tend to be used for watching video content - find that consumers prefer higher-priced devices from trusted brands.Microsoft&apos;s investment in the Surface and Windows 8 may pay off over the long term in the commercial segment, suggests Jitesh Ubrani, tablet research analyst at IDC. &quot;Though Android and iOS will remain dominant, we expect Windows-based devices to capture more than a quarter of the market as its benefits become apparent thanks to growing adoption of 2-in1s.&quot;•How the &quot;value trap&quot; squeezes Windows PC makers&apos; revenues and profits
It&apos;s finally Game Over for this year&apos;s E3, which has seen 50,000 games fans and 2000 exhibitors pack into LA&apos;s convention centre over three days to play the latest console and PC titles, meet the biggest developers and immerse themselves in the maelstrom of the modern games business.E3 is not quite the swaggering force it once was. The industry has moved away from its focus on blockbusting boxed software, the arrival of smartphones and online distribution, bringing in new business models, companies and players. But this is still the easiest and best place to get a handle on where games are.Here&apos;s everything you need to know about this year&apos;s E3.The big publishers are getting the hang of PlayStation 4 and Xbox OneIn their line ups for late-2014 and 2015, Microsoft, Sony, EA, Activision, Ubisoft, etc, showed that their developers are mastering the new console hardware. Wandering around the major stands at E3&apos;s two largest halls, the massive screens provided a spectacle of astonishing visuals. Far Cry 4, Assassin&apos;s Creed Unity, Metal Gear Solid: the Phantom Pain and fantasy adventure Witch 3, all combined intricate environmental detail with convincingly lifelike human characters and immersive physics and lighting effects.But important too, were the titles that took a more subjective and offbeat approach to next-gen visual design. Sunset Overdive is a woozy, almost hallucinogenic thrill ride, all brash, bright colours, weird weapons and dizzying movement. And then the smaller titles, the surreal Hohokum, the maudlin Ori and the Blind Forest – these titles showed that &quot;next-gen&quot; aesthetics doesn&apos;t have to mean volumetric smoke effects and real-time dynamic lighting.Favourite graphics boast of show:the gorgeous Forza Horizon 2 has its own simulated weather climate and when it rains, the water gathers into puddles, which reflect passing cars, and then dry out in real time.The mainstream game genres are evolvingFor the past five years, action adventures and first-person shooters have dominated the output of the major studios. We&apos;ve seen dozens of taut military blasters and earnest science fiction and fantasy epics, all joining the familiar game design dots. This year, there were subtle signs of disruption and even innovation. Assymetrical multiplayer titles like Evolve and Fable Legends allowed one participant in a game to play as the baddie, bringing in interesting new strategies and mechanics. In Evolve, the lone protagonist is a monster that the others hunt, in Fable Legends, they&apos;re the Dungeon Master setting traps and controlling enemy monsters. This isn&apos;t a new idea, of course, but it&apos;s going to become more important as developers seek to engage a wider range of players in online gaming.Elsewhere, sci-fi games are moving out of rigid action-RPG conventions and going truly intersteller in scope. Elite: Dangerous, the new space trading game from Frontier Developments boasts over 400bn star systems; No Man&apos;s Sky from Hello Games lets players discover planets that generate whole unique eco-systems; Destiny wants to combine FPS, role-playing, exploration, co-op and multiplayer into one vast experience; in Sunset Overdrive you can walk into any phone boother during the single-player campaign to kickstart a multiplayer match. These are baby steps toward new visions of epic, seamless game design.Favourite example of shooter innovation:Apart from the mutating monster in Evolve? In Rainbow Six Siege, the co-op multiplayer campaigns can be tried in any order, and will be filled with dynamic destruction and smart AI enemies, moving away from scripted, linear events and choreographed &quot;chokepoints&quot;, toward truly emergent showdowns. A close second is the&quot;keys to Kyrat&quot; drop-in co-op modein Far Cry 4, which allows you to invite PSN pals into the experience even if they don&apos;t own the game.Indie doesn&apos;t really exist anymoreWell, not in the way it used to – as an entirely seperate counter culture, indulged/tolerated by the big publishers. As with last year&apos;s show, games by smaller studios were front and centre during the Microsoft and Sony press conferences, and the likes of Ori and the Blind Forest, Hyper Light Drifter, No Man&apos;s Sky, Night in the Woods and Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number were causing just as much excitement and buzz on the show floor as their multimillion dollar peers.Importantly, too, we&apos;re seeing major innovations from the independent sector, as smaller teams of really bright, quirky individuals experiment with things like artifical intelligence, procedural content generation and device/web interconnectivity. Those unconvinced by, say, &quot;second screen&quot; concepts, should check out the beautiful and thoughtful adventure Night in the Woods; the PS4 version is looking to use the Vita as the lead character&apos;s journal, in a really cute interesting way.Favourite innovaton by an indie developer:each time you start a match of the fast-paced eight-player jetpack sports game,#Idarb, it generates a unique Twitter hash tag. Spectators can then tweet that tag, together with a specific code, and it&apos;ll effect the game – for example, you can make it snow. Genius.Nintendo is backOf course, Nintendo never really went away, but for the last couple of years, E3 attendees have rather pushed the veteran publisher to one side, its Wii U console seen as a confusing failure. This year, we saw super cute titles like Yoshi&apos;s Woolly World, Kirby and the Rainbow Curse, and Captain Toad&apos;s Treasure Tracker, as well as the intriguing Mario Maker, that lets you create your own Super Mario platformer. Oh and Bayonetta 2 and 3DS adventure Persona Q are looking sharp, idiosyncratic and ridiculous. And later in 2014, Super Smash Bros should completely build upon the restorative wonders provided by Mario Kart 8.People in this business always say two things: &quot;never write off Nintendo&quot; and &quot;it&apos;s all about the games&quot;. These two cliches pretty much got married and had babies at E3 2014.Favourite Nintendo thing:it has to be the return of Zelda, with a lovely new look – even if we know virtually nothing else about it.The old issues are still aroundRepresentation. It&apos;s a word that triggers huge arguments and bitter controversies in the game creation and fan communities – and it is still an issue in mainstream development. In the Microsoft E3 press conference, it was 50 minutes before a woman developer took to the stage. It was 20 minutes for Sony, but both events were absolutely dominated by white male executives, producers and creative directors. This of course represents the worringly skewed demographics in Western game development, but you feel the console giants could have tried a little harder to make other people feel included during their events which are watched online by millions of gamers across the world.Meanwhile, Ubisoft bucked the trend again by employing Aisha Tyler as its E3 press conference presenter. However, it stumbled into a bitter social media controversy, when one of itsdevelopers explainedthat female characters had been left out of Assassin&apos;s Creed Unity co-op mode because the extra work involved in designing and animating them was considered too expensive. A Twitter storm raged and Ubisoftreleased a statementto clarify its position. Many gamers pointed to the dual gender options in titles like Mass Effect, and the custom character creation modes in the likes of Sunset Overdrive (which is being marketed with a male character but that allows free customisation in-game). It was easy to write this off as another insular new media bun fight, but inclusivity and diversity are vital in such a large creative industry – even if only on the business level of engaging with emerging markets.Favourite contrast to the mainstream monoculture:Never Aloneis a fascinating project by a team of ex-Activision execs . They worked with Native Alaskan storytellers to produce what looks to be a mythological adventure of real grace and understanding. The lead character is a young girl who sets out on a heroic mission to find the source of an endless blizzard threatening to destroy her village.There might be something in this whole virtual reality ideaThis isn't a great quality video but it shows one of the scariest moments in the Oculus Rift-enhanced Alien: Isolation demo – being impaled by the Alien's tail...With Project Morpheus making a brief appareance at the Sony press conference and Oculus taking up a large stand in one of the main halls with its Rift device, it looks like the idea of a mainstream virtual reality headset is gainging momentum. There were some excellent demos at E3, too, especially CCP&apos;s Eve Valkyrie and Elite: Dangerous.Some industry pundits are still worried that people won&apos;t sit in their living rooms with massive crash helmets on, staggring around and bumping into the furniture for five minutes before being sick. But that sentence shows a lot of the misconceptions about VR, and its history as a geeky sideline rather than a mainstream possibility. Now, Facebook owns Oculus and Sony is looking at making Morpheus a key part of its consumer electronics offering.Best VR experience:Creative Assembly was showing off its terrifying Alien: Isolation adventure running on Rift, in a behind closed doors E3 demo. This was easily one of the most talked about experiences among games journalists with many of them discovering an unfortunate truth: in E3,everyonecan hear you scream...•E3 2014: new games unveiled for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One - video
Last week, I followed a link toNever try to do what I’m doing, an exhausted and dispirited post from one of the more interesting people in my extended social circle: Leila Johnston, a freelance writer who used herthree-month residency at Brighton&apos;s Lighthouse Studioto launchHack Circus, a nearly indefinable magazine and event-series and podcast devoted to weird things that attempt something I can best describe as &quot;serious delightfulness&quot;.Some of Johnston&apos;s best-known work is her comedy – I loved her2009 book Enemy of Chaos,a choose-your-own-adventure book about gaming and nerdiness; you might also know her herShift Run Stop. Now she’s walking a razor-edge line between art and commerce, integrity and realism, and criticality and whimsy. Thesecond issue of the improbable and beautiful Hack Circus magazinejust shipped. On that august occasion, I asked Leila if she would let me interview her for this column:Q. Is it fair to call Hack Circus &quot;an effort to find a business-model for idle, useless, diversion?&quot; That is, are you looking for a way to make just fooling around and being silly into a sustainable practice?A. I don&apos;t think there&apos;s anything idle about it – the ideas are challenging and the overall editorial message of pushing your understanding of what is real and what can be trusted, is highly critical. In contrast to a commercial world where tech, art and design have to appropriated into utility and capitalist service, it is in part a useless, or &quot;art&quot; case for tech projects. But it&apos;s no more useless than any other entertainment and a good deal more informative than most.The opposite of useful is not always useless, as such. The opposite of reportage is not always silliness, and the opposite of consumer messaging is not always fooling around. Playboy is one of the most successful media enterprises of all time, so presumably people don&apos;t want entertainment for functional reasons. Perhaps fooling around can be a very effective business model.The events are fun, but they are reality-distorting rather than &quot;comedy&quot;. They are funny because the clever, strange people who like Hack Circus are naturally funny and have done such wonderfully surprising things, not because they&apos;ve written a routine. I don&apos;t want to do a science comedy night for sceptics and atheists – there&apos;s plenty of that around. I&apos;m far more interested in, and identify far more strongly with, the credulous than the sceptical, and I&apos;m consciously working against the resistance to imagination that scepticism presents.Q. Is Hack Circus &quot;living like it was the first days of a better nation&quot; in which you can woo the muse of the odd not in spite of the fact that there&apos;s no money in being weird and speculative, but because of that fact?A. You know, I&apos;d love for that to be the case. I&apos;m conflicted because I need both sides. I heard a charity campaigner saying her business was other people&apos;s pain. Without the poison industry, you can&apos;t have the antidote business. I need there to be a fringe or underworld, because that&apos;s where Hack Circus comes from – that&apos;s where I live – but I also need an establishment to react to. Rightly or wrongly, the inside helps us to contextualise those inherent outsider feelings we&apos;ve always had…Content is very easily appropriated, no one reads anything properly – as you said, people don&apos;t have time. People certainly don&apos;t have your best interests at heart; whatever you say they will take from it what suits them. But there is something beyond content that may have a hope of leading a change: its container. Digital culture has created a new outsider: there is a new sense of statement about an object. Nowadays it is so expensive and weird to make media in the real world that an object has to have a point. That&apos;s why print design is so much more beautiful and complete than web design; it&apos;s not the fault of web designers, who are ingenious within their extraordinary constraints. But websites are so enormously compromised, so crushingly shareable on every level, every pixel, that it is much harder to allow digital the basic privilege of its own voice. In short, I think we might be able to use the physicality of magazines and events to gain a bit of ground that has been lost by digital because the meaning of physicality has changed.Q. I always thought that the thing that made zines so valuable while they lasted was that they were uncommodifiable in that a trained commercial designer would probably rather gouge her out eyes out before making things that were that heroically ugly (at least until a new generation of designers emerged from zine culture). The same was true for Geocities pages and Myspace pages.One problem with &quot;bohemian&quot; projects is that they can be moved from the underground to the high street in seconds. How do you put a defensive ring around your noncommercial, anti-utilitarian technology?A. I think a lot of ziners would argue their work is/was a kind of artful &quot;poverty design&quot; – the beauty and ingenuity of making do with what you have, and I absolutely appreciate that and can relate to it with Hack Circus. And I agree that the Myspace and Geocities days were definitely the inheritors of that spirit. But the fact it looks like a style (even an ugly one) means it looks like a dream, and the resulting glorification of amateurism and its associated poverties comes with a danger. Because it reinvents quality along lines that have no external measure, and in doing so devalues everything, including itself. Websites used to be something people visited, left a note on, and left. The reader had limited agency, and we were constantly aware there was an invisible barrier between author and reader; that the internet was a series of destinations, not just a flip book with us at the middle of every page.I think the almost comically extreme trend towards online shareability is partly about our desperation to be noticed by anyone, now that the internet is so crowded.To meet people halfway means finding a common language, and beautiful, evocative design is one way to do that very quickly. I believe it&apos;s a lot easier to achieve that connection through print, paradoxically because it slightly pushes the viewer into a role – it sets them back into a read-only mode. So I think physical magazines are conversational, but in a slightly more subtle way. I mean, people absolutely love magazines. And advertisers love what people love, and that&apos;s why mags have weathered the rise of digital better than newspapers. Beautiful magazines arrive like magic in the world, especially ones which come through your letterbox. Online magazines are not just &apos;magazines on a screen&apos;, they are a totally different beast – they&apos;re less magical, less personal. You know everyone else is looking at your dream at the same time. You can see them being constructed in front of you, and that&apos;s a different kind of voyeurism.
The 100 most popular gaming channels on YouTube generated nearly 3.5bn collective video views in May 2014, according to new research.Games is already one of YouTube&apos;s biggest categories alongside music, but anew monthly chart published by industry site Tubefilter, based on data from analytics firm OpenSlate, shows its scale.The most popular games channel is no surprise:PewDiePiehas been the biggest channel of any category on YouTube for some time. Felix Kjellberg’s videos were watched 311.2m times in May, with 27.3m people subscribing to his channel.He was followed by British gamer Joseph Garratt’sStampychannel, which focuses on videos created within the Minecraft game. Stampy generated 165m views in May, with 2.8m subscribers.Garratt is preparing to launch a second education-focused channelcalled Stampy School.43 of the top 100 games channels on YouTube are produced in the US, but the UK is the second biggest country with 16 – or 17 if you claim PewDiePie, a Swede now based in Brighton.The Diamond Minecart(115.9m views in May),iBallisticSquid(75.6m),Yogscast(52.3m) andWroetoshaw(37.7m) are some of the other British games channels building large audiences on YouTube, according to the chart.YouTube has become a huge platform for “Let’s Play” walkthroughs and other games videos, fuelled by individual creators and multi-channel networks (MCNs) like Maker Studios, Machinima and Fullscreen.The most popular channels are eagerly courted by games developers and publishers.Nintendo recently announced an affiliate programto share YouTube advertising revenues with channels that feature its games.It was a response to a controversy last year, whenthe company began “claiming” YouTube videos featuring its games, and thus taking revenues from ads running around and within them for itself.The top YouTube gaming channels have growing clout, including the ability to break new games to a worldwide audience. PewDiePie, for example, has been a key factor in the breakthrough of games includingSurgeon Simulatorand Flappy Bird.Some developers complain that more YouTubers are expecting to be paid to feature games in their videos, rather than choosing them for editorial reasons, however. As this category of online video continues to grow, such controversies are unlikely to fade.Publishers are also building large audiences on their own YouTube channels, however. The Tubefilter/OpenSlate chart&apos;s &quot;top gainer&quot; in May wasthe official channel for Activision&apos;s Call of Duty brand, with 28.5m views – more than half from a single marketing video starring Kevin Spacey.YouTube is one strand of explosive growth in online games viewing, but the other is Twitch, a service focused on livestreams of games and gaming events. Twitch attracts 45m monthly viewers, and is reportedlybeing eyed by YouTube&apos;s parent company Google for a potential $1bn acquisition.•10 trends that are changing how we watch TV
Ubisoft has come under fire after first axing the inclusion of female playable characters in their latest Assassin&apos;s Creed game, Unity. They later claimed their inclusion would have &quot;doubled the work&quot; on the game.In an interview,Ubisoft technical director James TherientoldVideoGamer.comit was a &quot;question of focus and production.&quot;A female character means that you have to redo a lot of animation, a lot of costumes [inaudible]. It would have doubled the work on those things. And I mean it&apos;s something the team really wanted, but we had to make a decision... It&apos;s unfortunate, but it&apos;s a reality of game development.&quot;Their reasoning hasn&apos;t gone down too well.&quot;Female bone structure is just different,&quot; says Joe Ubisoft. &quot;Are there spiders in there? We just don&#39;t know.&quot;&mdash; creeping horror (@redfivetwo)June 11, 2014This is by no means the first, nor will it be the last time, a game has come under fire for its lack of female representation. But the &quot;women don&apos;t play video games&quot; excuse doesn&apos;t fly anymore – in fact, nearly half of gamers are women.It would take for ever to list all the times games were a bit sexist, so we thought we&apos;d shine a light on those games which have some great female characters. Which games do you feel represented women the best? Here are a few to get you started:PortalPortal is one of those games when you play a female character, but it doesn&apos;t really make a difference either way. The only time you really see protagonist Chell outside of game art is if you catch a glimpse of her through portals during the game. Then there&apos;s the sadistic antagonist, the eerie robot GLaDOS, who&apos;s responsible for some of the funniest bits in the game.MetroidIt&apos;s not until the end of the original Metroid on NES that the player realises Samus Aran is a woman. A woman who single-handedly wipes out an enemy race, no less. While it&apos;s a big twist at the end of the 1986 game, developers didn&apos;t have to do much to convince gamers Samus was pretty cool. Nearly 30 years later, she remains a memorable and popular character.Beyond Good and EvilPart of the reason Ubisoft&apos;s move to remove playable female characters has annoyed so many is that they&apos;ve often stated they&apos;re committed to diversity in their games. Case in point: Beyond Good and Evil, with its reporter/martial artist protagonist Jade. Ubisoft developer Michel Ancel set out to create a game with a well-rounded female character. As a result, Jade has been featured on countless lists of top female characters in video games.Here are some of your suggestions...Augasm13 June 2014 3:00pmHana from the Fear Effect games sticks in my mind, possibly because she was the first openly gay game character I can think of. Bloody good games too. Definitely worth an update imo.DrHeaton13 June 2014 1:30pmSurely the more best Valve female character would be Alyx Vance.A strong and resourceful character who is central to the plot without becoming the damsel in distress, in fact the first time you meet her she's saving you. A great character and an example of how strong and well written female characters can really add to a game.Lisa Marie Iggi13 June 2014 1:19pmAlice from American McGee's Alice franchise - amazing.Andy Davison13 June 2014 1:23pmApril Ryan from The Longest Journey - combination of female protagonist AND some characterisation! Kind of sad that one of the better examples (off the top of my head at least) came out like 15 years ago.BookerDeWitt13 June 2014 1:48pmElizabeth in Bioshock: Infinite.Whilst not the protagonist, the entire story revolves around the mystery of her, and it's only her interactions and relationship with the main character Booker that give him any real character at all.And she may *technically* be a robot, but GLaDOS is a definite favourite.Guardian staffJallford13 June 2014 1:25pmI don't care if she's a computer, GLaDOS is one of my favourite characters of all time.Adrian Worton13 June 2014 4:08pmEllie in The Last of Us is brilliant - but really GLaDOS is the best single character in any game, ever.Any we&apos;ve missed? Add your suggestions in the comments below.
Hideo Kojima’s Metal Gear series has always presented a curious blend of serious themes (nuclear war, military corruption) with action-movie humour and theatrics. The Phantom Pain, Kojima’s forthcoming blockbuster entry to the series, is no different.It’s a game that, among other things, takes aim at the US detention of terrorist suspects in Guantanamo Bay. It’s also a game in which the protagonist, Snake, lives on a giant oil rig surrounded by a private army he calls the &quot;Diamond Dogs&quot;. While the juxtaposition in theme and tone may jar, the inclusion of this sea-bound base allows Kojima to revisit one of the strongest game design elements yet seen in the series, the ability to airlift enemy soldiers that Snake tranquilises back to this base during missions in order to swell the ranks of his army.In The Phantom Pain, it’s not only downed foes that can be airlifted to safety (using a mechanism called the Fulton recovery system, which attaches a balloon to the soldier’s foot, yanking him into the air before floating him back to base). Enemy vehicles, gun turrets, weapons, diamonds and shipment containers can all be sent back home. During a studio presentation behind closed doors at the E3 conference this week, one developer demonstrated how even the local wildlife can be airlifted back to base: a tottering sheep was yanked into the sky with a yelp and a shower of fluff. Indeed, every mission in the field presents a new opportunity for Snake to scavenge for resources.Once soldiers have been returned to your base they can be assigned different research roles there; the more men you have on a certain research team the quicker you’ll unlock new items that can be airdropped by the R&amp;D department into the field during a mission (a carefully placed airdrop will even knock out an unsuspecting soldier if you manage to land it on his head). Eventually, you’re able to call in airstrikes and other mission-transforming back up.Unlike in Peace Walker, the Metal Gear spin-off in which the Mother Base debuted, you are now able to visit your burgeoning fortress in the ocean, spending accrued GMP (the game’s currency gained from completed missions and airlifting diamonds and other valuable resources back to the base) on defences such as UAVs and even new add-ons to the base. Kojima boasts that no two bases will be identical and, as you make this rig your home you’ll want to show it off to other players. On the rig, both Snake and your captured soldiers are able to train and upgrade their proficiency in shooting and close quarters combat.The base itself is also susceptible to attack. From time to time an alarm will sound and your troops (who salute every time Snake passes them) will rally to their designated positions. In this way, the Mother Base becomes something akin to a tower defence game: the more defensive items that you airlift from the field the better prepared it will be to withstand any attacks.Away from the base on the field, this is a technological marvel, a vast pen world filled with interactive possibility. Clouds wheel through the sky casting dynamic shadows, coming together and parting in unrepeated patterns with the passing of time. The Phantom Pain’s dynamic weather system even plays a role in the Fulton recovery system. During a sandstorm, for example, it’s best not to attempt to airlift a soldier or military hardware from the field as the recovery balloon is influenced by weather and may be blown off course en route back to base.The tonal juxtaposition that defines Kojima’s work is in full effect here in the expansive wilds. As you trot on horseback into one of the first areas of the game, the reeds tilt in the wind and the sand whips up in tiny clouds. On cue your horse lifts its tail and defecates with a nasal harrumph. That&apos;s probably one asset that Snake needn’t airlift back to base.• Metal Gear Solid: The Phantom Pain will be released on PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One. The launch date is to be confirmed.•Metal Gear Solid V: Ground Zeroes review
It’s been roughly six years since a Rainbow Six game last landed on a console. Six years since players tore through Las Vegas battling a terrorist cell smuggling chemical weapons into Sin City. Three years ago, fans of the series had reason to be positive after some gameplay footage from a title tagged Rainbow Six: Patriots was leaked. Sadly, it seems that after three years of development, Patriots isn’t going to see the light of day.The good news, however, is that a new Rainbow Six game is now in the pipeline for PC and new gen consoles. Ubisoft unveiled Rainbow Six: Siege at its E3 keynote yesterday and by it seems to be a rather frenetic take on the series’ open-ended first-person shooter blueprint.In the demo shown at E3, which was captured from the game’s multiplayer mode, one team took on the role of a group of terrorists who had barricaded themselves inside a house with a hostage. The second team controlled soldiers tasked with breaking into the building and rescuing the civilian.While the terrorists deployed barbed-wire across doors, makeshift barricades across windows and mobile blockades across entrances, the soldiers sent a drone into the house to scout out the lay of the land and find the location of the hostage. Once this had been done, the team had a conflab about the best way in, decided to breach the property via the windows, and opened fire on their opponents.There’s a delightful asymmetrical structure to Rainbow Six: Siege, with the soldier team doing their best to cut through the makeshift defences of the terrorists, and their enemies simply aiming to take as many of them down as quickly as possible. From the looks of things, the match is over if the soldiers rescue the hostage or every member of one team is killed.Rainbow Six: Siege’s firefights will be one-shot-one-kill, which harkens back to the series’ hardcore roots. Furthermore, Siege will feature a campaign, which according to the developers, will be based around a series of sandbox maps; the multiplayer then, is a taste of the story-mode. There is also realistic environmental destruction, so players will be able to blast down walls and even blow holes in floors, to get clear sight lines to enemies.Co-op play is clearly back on the mainstream developer agenda in a big way, and Rainbow Six is set to explore that mechanic, while rejuventaing the sub-genre of tense, authentic group-based shooters. With Tom Clancy&apos;s The Divison also on Ubisoft&apos;s slate, it&apos;s clear the veteran publisher is looking to corner this market before it even begins.• Rainbow Six: Siege is coming to PC, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One
If you have any experience of XBOX One&apos;s Kinect functionality, you knowit can be a trifle creepy.It sits there, in the corner of your room, forever listening, and probably plotting your downfall when it becomes self-aware some time in 2017.For now, though, the device has been surprising users by unexpectedly switching on the console when they view an advert featuring Breaking Bad. Asthe BBC reports, users online have been complaining about this unexpected &apos;feature&apos;.HAHAHA omg.@aaronpaul_8just turned my Xbox One via the Xbox advert. (Which triggered the IR blaster to switch my TV off..)&#10;&#10;Amazing.&mdash; Qassim (@DrW_Qass)June 12, 2014Has this happened to you, either with the Aaron Paul ad or with a previous campaign? Has anything particularly creepy happened with your Kinect, or have you accepted its constant presence into your life?Let us know in the comments thread below.
A view down to one floor of one building of the market. Charles ArthurThere are hundreds of shops and stalls, spread across multiple buildings and many floors. Here some staff assemble repair parts to be shipped out - destination unknown. Charles ArthurParts - mainly for phones (as these are) - abound. You could  draw together all the parts you needed for a smartphone (probably an iPhone; for some reason those are really common) and get the whole thing assembled in one of the repair shops inside the complex. Charles ArthurAn iPhone nano - actually a tiny Android device with iOS-like icons. Charles ArthurThe Home Screen on the AOSP fake iPhone. The icons are all excellent copies - though the font is too heavy, and the clock doesn't agree with the time shown in the menu bar. Charles ArthurA view of a ground-floor level; these tend to be more consumer-focussed than upper levels, which cater to parts buyers. Charles ArthurIf you need a hard drive, they're in plentiful supply. Charles ArthurThey're the same shape as Apple's Earpods - but the official ones only come in white. How boring: why not get some in snazzier colours (even if they aren't official)? Charles ArthurMore parts - this time, memory chips by the hundred, available to order and ship in trays. Charles ArthurInside the Huaqiangbei complex: the order of the brands on this poster broadly reflects their prominence in the market. Charles ArthurBesides computer parts, LED lights were a big feature - suggesting that the supply, and demand, of these low-energy lights is building up, and they will explode in popularity over the next few years. Charles ArthurOr if you have to have your pig's trotter hot, there are stalls inside the market that will supply. Charles Arthur
The news that Hidetaka Miyazaki, creator of the seminal dark fantasy video game Dark Souls would take a supervising role on its sequel in order to focus on a new title was met with consternation by some. But it was a sensible decision by From Software, the Shinjuku-based company of which Miyazaki is now president. As the Japanese video game industry groans with the dead weight of so many sequels, Miyazaki’s fidgety creativity and vision should be put to use in crafting new games, rather than, as with many of his aging contemporaries, merely attempting to perfect or freshen old ones.This is not to say that Bloodborne, the result of Miyazaki’s post-Dark Souls project, doesn&apos;t share similarities with his previous fantasy-inspired work. The aesthetic is entirely different: all uneven cobblestones, flickering oil lamps, mist-cloaked grates and spindly iron fencing. Its stratospherically tall churches owe more to Nicholas Hawksmoor and Christopher Wren than the catholic intricacy of Dark Souls’ cathedrals. Likewise, the game’s protagonist struts and rolls in leather and cloth fabric rather than burnished armour: he moves quicker and more freely, something that suits his tall frame.But the feel of the game, as seen behind closed doors at the E3 conference in Los Angeles this week, is entirely Dark Souls. This is most readily seen in the combat which is familiarly weighty and considered, where fighters heave and reel, where a misjudged swipe of a sword can prove deadly to both player and foe. Fools rush in, and if you’re outnumbered you’ll struggle to make it out of a skirmish alive: better to pick enemies off one by one. Nevertheless, there appears to be a great deal of room for player expression and theatrics in combat. Fire the gun into the gut of an incoming monster for example and, if the timing’s correct, you’ll be able to follow-up with a grisly melee attack.While any HUD had been cleaned off the screen for this demo, downed enemies seemed to give up a mist like spirit, and some cadavers were lit up where they lay by glowing items ripe for picking. But in contrast to Dark Souls, the Lovecraftian characters, who glare out from under the brim of leather hats, wield blunderbusses. Your own character holds a sword cleaver in one hand (which can be extended with a flick of the wrist) and a musket in the other. Here, the steampunk inventor appears to have more value than the blacksmith.Years ago, Sony worked with Miyazaki on Dark Souls’ predecessor Demons Souls, and it has given this new game its full-throated support, presenting Bloodborne front and centre at its E3 press conference. That the Japanese publisher would be enamoured with the game is understandable: it looks exquisite on PlayStation 4. A full moon casts shadows over the city of Yharnam’s streets; light rises from the flickering flames of burning monsters hoisted onto crosses in the town centre. The population is, according to Miyazaki, suffering from a mysterious illness, which keeps them in a state of shuffling, heightened paranoia.Miyazaki and his designers’ talent for creating disturbing but never grotesque monsters is evident again here. As you cross one bridge you’re attacked by a group of belly-flopping oversized crows, too fat to fly, but who peck at your character with chunky beaks.In one house you find an old man sat in a wheelchair. As you turn to face him he starts firing an old, gramophone-like pistol from his lap, the gunpowder blast sending his chair creaking backwards with each violent shot. In another area, your character comes to another non-player character that appears to be fighting the bedevilled townspeople. You can choose to help him, an action that will supposedly have repercussions later in the game.On this showing Bloodborne is a bleak, affecting proposition. Its themes are depressing, its execution violent and urgent and yet, as with all of his work, there is the promise of something hopeful in amongst the darkness. Miyazaki is one of the most vibrant, imaginative and skilled designers working in video games today. Bloodborne appears to both confirm and redouble his reputation.• Bloodborne is set for release on PlayStation 4 in 2015•Demon&apos;s Souls review•Dark Souls review•Dark Souls II – has the best game of a generation been saved until last?
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamStarbucks starts rolling out wireless phone chargers nationwide &gt;&gt; The VergeThe deal is a major victory for Powermat and the Power Matters Alliance, which remains embroiled in a standards war with the Wireless Power Consortium, purveyor of the Qi charging standard. And at least right now, we're at something of a stalemate.Qi's technology has been embedded into the design of far more smartphones, including the new LG G3, Nexus 5, and numerous Nokia devices. PMA's wireless charging solution hasn't enjoyed the same adoption among manufacturers; most people still need to buy a compatible case for their phone before ditching the USB cable that came with it. But Schreiber suggested the tide is turning. Consumers can buy PMA-compatible back covers for some Samsung smartphones that enable Powermat charging, and Apple — which hasn't officially picked a side in this battle — sells a Duracell Powermat iPhone case at its retail stores."Devices will come out with compatible technology, and we'll see an industry that's been hamstrung a bit with standards issues and conflicting implementations coalesce a common ground," [Powermat president Daniel] Schreiber said. If you don't own a supported device, you'll be able to purchase a tiny, inexpensive receiver "ring" that plugs into your phone and lets you toss it onto the pad for recharging. (Schreiber wouldn't reveal whether Starbucks plans to sell these directly.)Wonder why Starbucks would start rolling out wireless charging in mid-year using a standard that's not used on many smartphones at present.The Diagonal • Hi - I was wondering why all of Amazon's Knights of Sidonia volumes are now restricted to only Kindle devices, as opposed to the Kindle app for iOS or the cloud-based e-reader. Over the last few months, I've bought and read through volumejh1453 asked:Hi - I was wondering why all of Amazon's Knights of Sidonia volumes are now restricted to only Kindle devices, as opposed to the Kindle app for iOS or the cloud-based e-reader. Over the last few months, I've bought and read through volume 5, but now I can't continue my collection because I don't own a Kindle.vertical-inc replied:That's Amazon's choice. We would never have them restricted to specific machines. (Actually our novels are on all Kindle platforms and our first eBooks were also, but Amazon changed those policies themselves for whatever reasons).Seems incredible that Amazon would cut off ways for people to consume content bought from it. It's like declining to sell boo....Ink-spewing squids won't save Nintendo's Wii U &gt;&gt; BusinessweekNintendo's announcement at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles didn't really tackle the basic problem the gaming-console pioneer faces: Nintendo's customers are giving up on the Wii. Unlike the PlayStation and the Xbox, Nintendo's Wii has long catered to younger users who like the company's cartoon characters, most notably Mario. As the cost of smartphones and tablets continues to fall, however, parents are less willing to fork over several hundred dollars for a Nintendo Wii U when they can instead let Junior play a few online games, often for free, on a cheap Android device.Nintendo executives "seem to think that the issue is the lack of games," Amir Anvarzadeh, a BGC Partners analyst in Singapore, told Bloomberg Television today. However, "the real issue here is that Nintendo is focusing on the casual gamers, [while] the gamers are migrating to smartphones and tablet platforms where games are free."Nintendo, you have a problem.Totally Failing London &gt;&gt; the cabbies capitalBlack cab driver RJ Cudlip:Let me just explain one little bit of Taxi/PH [private hire] law first; as a Taxi driver (because of the extra training that allows me to accept instant hails) I am allowed to take bookings direct, unlike a PH driver who must accept a booking from a PH Operator like Addison Lee. This is why what Hailo do (connect me to a punter direct) is within the law and what Uber do isn't. As previously stated, PH cars are not allowed to make themselves "available for immediate hire" and again, this is what Uber are doing and therefore breaking the law. Then there is the issue of their "virtual meter". The law states that a PH vehicle is not allowed to be equipped with a meter. Uber, with TfL's blessing, argue that a smartphone isn't a meter. I think most right minded people would think that if it does the same thing as a meter, then it most probably is a meter. And an important point here is that Taxis are made to have meters fitted to protect the public from being ripped off.…There are also issues around Uber not asking for destinations (required by law) and Uber not having an operating center in the UK, but in Holland. This final point seems to be the only one that TfL are admitting is a problem and that if they'd known about it before may not have issued their operator licence!…what Uber and Hailo really want is to take a big cut of the multi billion pound taxi market. Do they have drivers interests at heart? Definitely not. Do they even have customers interests at heart? Almost certainly not. What they really want is to resell my work to me for a fee. Isn't technology wonderful?How Apple TV might disrupt Microsoft and Sony &gt;&gt; stratechery by Ben ThompsonBeyond the fact most of us had nothing better to do in the 1980s, a big reason to own a gaming console was that they were a phenomenally good deal. In 1985 Nintendo introduced the Famicom to North America as the Nintendo Entertainment System for a mere $199, an remarkably low price considering the average PC cost around $2,400.1 While PC prices soon began to fall, the Playstation/Nintendo 64 generation was still nearly $1,500 cheaper than the average PC.Over the last two generations of consoles, however, prices have actually risen, and today a Playstation 4 or Xbox One is nearly the same price as an average PC.In some respects, this makes no sense: why hasn't Moore's law had the same impact on consoles as it has had on PCs? Moreover, when you consider that consoles now compete with a whole host of new time-wasters like phones, tablets, social networks, dramatically expanded TV offerings, the Internet, etc., it's downright bizarre.I think the answer lies in a specific part of disruption theory. Specifically, incumbents are driven by their best customers to add more and more features that drive up the price, causing the incumbents' product to move further and further away from the average customer's needs (needs which have actually been decreasing as more entertainment options become available):Once that happens, all sorts of strange things become possible. And why not an Android TV that could serve gamers? Though of course Sonyalready seems to have thought of this.Response by Ray Kurzweil to the announcement of chatbot Eugene Goostman passing the Turing test &gt; KurzweilAIKurzweil is also known as one of the most enthusiastic proponents of "the Singularity" - when computers encapsulate or surpass human intelligence:I have had a long-term wager with Mitch Kapor in which I predicted that a computer program would pass the Turing test by 2029 and he predicted that this would not happen, see links below.This was the first long-term wager on the "Long Now" website. The bet called for $20,000 to be donated from us to the charity of the winner's choice.As a result, messages have been streaming in from around the world congratulating me for having won the bet.However, I think this is premature. I am disappointed that Professor Warwick, with whom I agree on many things, would make this statement. There are several problems that I describe below, including a transcript of a conversation that I had with Eugene Goostman, the chatbot in question.This is going to be a great disappointment to all the imaginary 13-year-old Ukrainian boys with passable English who are rude about their female classmates.Leap Motion Bone API: Helping computers understand the human hand &gt;&gt; CITEWorldOneReddituserbuilta program with Leap Motion's to browse articles with one-finger swipes left and right, or upvote articles with two finger motions. Though, in watching his video, other than the novelty, it's tough feel a huge improvement over using a mouse and keyboard. But on the other hand, it's hard not to think of an extremely rudimentary version of the screens in Minority Report. Time will tell.Leap Motion has been pushing the next generation of its tracking software, improving motions like touching one finger to another hand, or pinching two fingers together. Those seem like simple motions. But if a game requires a player to, say,pick up a balland throw it, the sensors require incredible precision to know the exact moment the player's hand would have wrapped around and made a grip on the sphere - not to mention when they've released it.Leap Motion is clever, but still very much a technology desperately seeking an application.Visualizing MBTA Data &gt;&gt; GithubMike Barry and Brian Card:Boston's Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority (MBTA) operates the 4th busiest subway system in the U.S. after New York, Washington, and Chicago. If you live in or around the city you have probably ridden on it. The MBTA recently began publishing substantial amount of subway data through its public APIs. They provide the full schedule in General Transit Feed Specification (GTFS) format which powers Google's transit directions. They also publish realtime train locations for the Red, Orange, and Blue lines (but no Green or Silver line until 2015). The following visualizations use data captured from these feeds for the entire month of February, 2014. Also, working with the MBTA, we were able to acquire per-minute entry and exit counts at each station measured at the turnstiles used for payment.We attempt to present this information to help people in Boston better understand the trains, how people use the trains, and how the people and trains interact with each other.Simply fantastic visualisation; set time aside to read and play with it. Bonus: you'll learn what a Marey diagram is, if you don't already know.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Google is in talks to buy a stake in Virgin Galactic, Sir Richard Branson's space tourism business, that would give it access to satellite launch technology, according to reports. The deal, estimated to be worth £17.8m, has not yet been sealed, but negotiations are thought to be at an advanced stage.Sky News has reported that negotiations between the two companies have been going on for months and, according to anonymous insiders cited by the channel, the talks are likely to lead to a deal with two main elements.First, Google would provide hundreds of millions of dollars to help fund a joint venture, with Virgin Galactic contributing the technology that it has developed while trying to build its space tourism&nbsp;business.Second, Google would buy a small stake – likely to be around 1.5% – in the Virgin Galactic holding company. The sum of £17.8m would suggest that Branson's business is valued at around £1.2bn.Virgin's space tourism business has suffered from a number of teething problems, but it insists that it will be ready to launch later this year. It could gain some much needed credibility from a deal with a firm like Google.It emerged on Tuesday that Google has also set its sights on buying the satellite company Skybox Imaging. The $500m (£298m) acquisition will enable Google to improve the quality and immediacy of the imagery used in its digital maps, it was reported.Skybox's satellite is already in orbit. This, along with the launch capabilities offered by Virgin's technology, would aid Google's plan to boost worldwide internet coverage, thus getting more people online reliably and potentially increasing its advertising revenues.
The Galaxy Tab S 8.4, with its 8.4in screen, is easy to hold in one hand, and the bright and colourful OLED screen makes pictures and video look especially vibrant. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe larger Tab S 10.5 has a bigger, 10.5in screen and is light enough to hold with one hand in portrait orientation like a magazine for extended reading periods. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSamsung's fitted an 8-megapixel camera with a flash to the back, and an IR sensor on the edge of both tablets. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Galaxy Tab S has a fingerprint scanner, just like the one introduced on the Galaxy S5 in April, capable of registering three fingerprints for unlocking the device and being used instead of a password in some apps, including PayPal and LastPass. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe microSD card slot and SIM slot for the 3G/4G version of the tablet have small doors to protect them while the micro-USB port is exposed on the side of the tablet. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianDigital comic books look particularly good on the Tab S's high resolution Super AMOLED screen. Samsung is giving away a three-month subscription to Marvel's Unlimited comic subscription service with each Tab S as part of its 'Galaxy Gifts' promotion. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSamsung has a delightfully low-tech solution to keep cases and accessories attached to the tablets. The Tab S has two small holes which a button-like popper on the case fits into. The connection is very sturdy and requires some force to detach. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianA range of case accessories are available which clip in using the button system on the back. Here the book-style cover folds to stand the Tab S 10.5 up in landscape orientation. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe book-style cases are quite thin, maintaining the overall slim profile of the tablet, but will not offer much in the way of impact protection if dropped. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Tab S will come in two colours: 'dazzling white' and 'titanium bronze'. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSamsung has continued to make additions to Android, including a split-screen multitasking function that allows two apps to be placed side-by-side on the screen. Galaxy Tab S Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSpotting the keyboard-case trend that many accessory manufacturers have made for Apple's iPad, Samsung's made a Bluetooth keyboard case that clips onto the screen when not in use. It has a full keyboard, but the keys are not full size. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian
Samsung has beaten Apple to a fingerprint-reading tablet with the launch of two new flagship Galaxy Tab S models, four months before Apple unveils its next iPad.The new 8.4in and full-sized 10.5in Galaxy Tab S are also the first tablets available with a high-resolution large-size organic LED (OLED) screen showing that the new display technology, which emits its own light and does not need a backlight, has reached maturity beyond smaller smartphone screens and high-priced televisions.OLED screens are widely expected to replace LCDs in most instances, being more power-efficient and producing more vibrant colours with deeper blacks than is possible with the LCD screens like those used by most smartphones, tablets, laptops and televisions.The new device is Samsung&apos;s latest move to capitalise on its growing share of the world tablet market. The company claimed an 18% share of the global tablet market in 2013 with 39.2m tablets shipped, compared to Apple’s 35% and 74.3m tablets, giving them together more than half of all shipments.“The tablet is becoming a popular personal viewing device for enjoying content, which makes the quality of the display a critical feature,” said JK Shin, CEO and president of Samsung&apos;s IT &amp; Mobile Division. “With the launch of the Galaxy Tab S, Samsung is setting the industry bar higher for the entire mobile industry. It will provide consumers with a visual and entertainment experience that brings colours to life, beautifully packaged in a sleek and ultra-portable mobile device.”Denise Yuan, tablet planner for Samsung, told the Guardian: &quot;We performed a lot of research on consumer usage and found that people mainly use tablets for web browsing, videos and gaming - entertainment mostly, which made the display the most important part and why we focused on bringing our Super AMOLED screen to the Tab S.”Samsung claims that the Tab S&apos;s Super AMOLED screen has a contrast ratio 100 times better than LCD, which makes text easier to read on screen, but also photos and videos appear closer in depth of colour to the real world as the eye sees it.The Tab S will come in two sizes (8.4in and 10.5in) and two colours – 'dazzling white' and 'titanium bronze'. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianIt’s all about touchApple is widely expected to bring its Touch ID fingerprint sensor, released with the iPhones 5S in September last year, to its iPad Air and iPad mini tablets in October, marking a year since the Cupertino-based company unveiled the biggest design change in its tablet’s history with the iPad Air.The Galaxy Tab S runs the latest version of Google’s Android “KitKat” 4.4.2, but uses Samsung’s &quot;TouchWiz&quot; customisations to the basic Android experience, which the Korean company also uses on its Galaxy smartphones and other Galaxy tablets.The Tab S uses Samsung’s own Samsung Exynos eight-core processor – instead of the Qualcomm processors used in almost every other premium Android tablet and smartphone – with 3GB of RAM and 16 or 32GB of internal storage as well as a microSD card slot for adding more space for music, videos and photos. Models with 3G and 4G capabilities, able to make calls and send text messages, are also available.Samsung hopes that the fingerprint scanner, like that introduced on the company’s flagship smartphone the Galaxy S5 in April, as well as the 10.5in Tab S’s thin 6.6mm frame and 465g weight – which is 0.9mm thinner and 4g lighterthan the iPad Air – will help in its battle for dominance with Apple and win customers from rivals.Samsung gaining groundThe Tab S is Samsung's new top-of-the-line tablet, replacing the TabPro. Photograph: Samuel gibbs/The GuardianSamsung has made significant progress in marketshare for its range of tablets over the last year, making the battle for tablet sales globally a two-horse race with Apple.After Apple and Samsung, Asus came third in the global rankings with 5% and 10.4m shipped, while Amazon came in fourth with 4.6% and 9.8m of its Kindle Fire tablets shipped, according to data from research firm IDC.Breaking down by region, Apple claimed 34% of Western Europe versus Samsung’s 23% marketshare, while Apple dominated the UK in 2013 with 39% of the market to Samsung’s 16%. In the US, Apple is even more entrenched with a 44% share of the market leaving Samsung with an 18% share.Fast forward to the first quarter of 2014 and Samsung has shown significant gains. Globally, Samsung claimed 22% of tablet sales compared with Apple’s 34%, while in western Europe, Samsung increased its market share to 30% with Apple decreasing one percent to 34%.In the UK, Samsung had a 26% share of tablets, while Apple claimed a 35% share. In the US Samsung jumped to 26% of the market, while Apple increased slightly to 45%.“Samsung is making significant progress in tablet marketshare,” explained Francisco Jeronimo, research director of IDC. “But its gains in share have not been at the expense of Apple, but of the other tablet vendors.”He said that the cause is down to apps. “That is the result of the Android tablet app ecosystem not being as strong as it is for Apple’s iPad.”‘Most apps are merely scaled up version of phone apps on Android’Android tablets have struggled to garner the interest of developers, whereas Apple has persuaded developers to create apps specifically tailored for the larger screens. While Android is arguably on par with Apple’s iOS for smartphone apps, it still lags on tablets.“Apple has effectively locked out the market for high quality tablet apps with the 475,000+ &apos;made for iPad&apos; apps,” says Ben Wood from research firm CCS Insight. “Developers seem to feel it is worth the effort to optimise their apps specifically for the iPad, which means you get a great experience.“On Android, other than a few exceptions, most apps are merely scaled up version of phone apps. This is not such a problem on a 7in screen – but once you get to 10in and above it becomes a real issue,” continued Wood.The Galaxy Tab S is unlikely to change that status quo but provides another premium Android tablet option, joining the thin and light Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet for those that do not want to buy into Apple’s walled garden and its iPad.The Tab S will be available between the end of June and beginning of July and costs around $399 for the 8.4in version and $499 for the 10.5in variant.The 10.5in Tab S also adds yet another screen size to Samsung’s tumefied range of Galaxy tablets which currently span the Tab 4 7, Tab 4 8, Tab Pro 8.4, Tab 4 10.1, Tab Pro 10.1, Note 10.1, Note Pro 12.2, as well as others like the Tab 3 Kids.Samuel Gibbs travelled to New York at Samsung&apos;s expense. The company did not have any oversight of his reporting.•Apple iPad Air review: thinner, lighter, faster – but it’s all about the software•Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet review: a svelte premium Android tablet that’s a worthy iPad Air challenger•Samsung Galaxy S5 review: faster, bigger – but still plastic•Samsung Galaxy Note 3 review: hand-stretchingly big productivity in your palm
Few workplaces might seem more unpredictable in their workload than the emergency department of a major hospital. But even the random circumstances that send patients to the ER start to yield patterns when subjected to new methods of data analysis.For Dr James Lind, director of access and patient flow at Gold Coast Health, clever analysis of admission records by the CSIRO means he can now predict the Gold Coast hospital’s emergency admissions on any day of the year with an accuracy of up to 93%.That means the hospital can schedule elective procedures with greater confidence, with less chance that elective beds will need to be cleared to make room for emergencies. That means happier patients, and happier staff.“There is a cost saving in response to not having reactive staffing patterns and having to put people on overtime shifts,” Dr Lind says. “People like working in a system that is proactive rather than reactive. When we are expecting a patient load everyone knows what their jobs, and you are more efficient with your time.”ThePatient Admission and Prediction Tool(PAPT) developed by the CSIRO is just one example of how public sector organisations are using new techniques in data analytics (also known as big data) to find useful patterns in the vast volumes of data they collect.Current initiatives include the Australian Taxation Office trawling through records to find evidence of the use of tax havens, and data-matching to identify small online retailers that are not meeting their compliance obligations.Big data techniques are also used by the Department of Human Services to improve service delivery, including creating more personalised services and detecting fraud and compliance issues.The volumes of data available for the analysis within the Australian public sector are enormous – the Department of Human Services alone deals with 23.4m active Medicare records, approximately 7.1m Centrelink users and 1.2m child support cases.Development of the federal government’s big data strategy was kicked off with theAustralian Public Service ICT Strategy 2012 –2015, and further outlined in the 2013 reportBig Data Strategy – Issues Paper.In March 2013, the Australian Government Information Management Office launched acentre of excellence in data analytics, headed by the tax office, and numerous state-based big data initiatives are also in development.According to the global manager for analytics at the analyst firm Gartner, Ian Bertram, the possibilities for use of big data within the public sector are endless.“There is a whole raft of stuff around transportation, around emergency services, and around health,” Bertram says. “But it is still really the ‘art of the possible’. It is not necessarily the ‘art of execution’ at the moment for much of the public sector.”Numerous limitations exist, including the availability of funds for new projects, as well as restrictions within and between departments as to how the data they have gathered can be used. In many instances data can only be used for administration of the relevant legislative Acts, and not cross-referenced against data in other departments.Bertram says another limitation is access to skills. “I don’t know if any public sector has necessarily cracked the nut on attracting the right skills and capabilities,” Bertram says. “The commercial sector has, because they’ve got the dollars to spend.”Regardless, there is enough activity happening now to suggest that big data initiatives are already producing results for government agencies, particularly for emergency services.One project for the Department of Justice in Victoria undertaken by the analytics firm Predictive Analytics Group is analysing data from the contact centre and dispatch systems for the Victorian 000 emergency for forecasting purposes.According to Predictive’s founder and managing director Dr Theo Gazos the project has proven useful beyond its initial brief of simply testing business cases.“It has become so sophisticated that it actually forecasts the number of full-time equivalents required on the call taking side as well as the dispatch side,” Dr Gazos says.He says uptake within public sector agencies is constrained by budgets, but once solutions are demonstrated they are readily adopted and expanded.“Government and the public sector generally is becoming more and more interested in the data analytics and predictive analytics,” Dr Gazos says. “Once you show somebody a solution and they get the intuition behind it, they are sold.”Sponsored contentThis content has been sponsored by IBM, whose brand it displays. All content is editorially independent.
When Chen Xiaozhe downloaded the smartphone application Momo, his intentions were clear. "My principal motive was to try to have sex with a wide variety of girls," said Chen, 27, who runs an online shop.To attract potential dates, Chen updates his profile with photos of his BMW or selfies in posh restaurants. It is easier to meet women online, according to Chen, because in person they tend to be shy, if money-oriented. "If I can manage to satisfy their material desires, generally they are willing to sleep with me," he&nbsp;said.In a country with 700 million smartphone and tablet users, the mobile sector has become a hotbed of innovative startups. One recent success is Momo, a social networking app created in 2011 that has experienced growth akin to that of products by China's technology giants, such as Tencent'sWeChat. In August 2012, Momo had 10 million users; by February this year there were 100 million, or double the number on New York-based networking site Foursquare.Momo is free to download and uses location to connect users through one-to-one or group chats. It offers various services such as online gaming and local interest forums. But its reputation,much like that of Tinder, is for facilitating one-night stands.Zhang Chenyi, a 23-year-old administrator with dyed chestnut hair, a cropped T-shirt and fake eyelashes, gets propositioned on Momo 10 times a day. "I want to make as many friends as possible," she said, revealing a typical divide in the motives of male and female users. "If I communicate with a guy on Momo for around one month, and feel that I understand him, I would consider going for dinner."China's rapid modernisation has given rise to a young generation whoseattitudes towards sex and relationships are starkly&nbsp;different from that of their parents and grandparents. Premarital sex is now common, but puritanical attitudes endure.While Momo's salacious reputation forms part of its appeal, it also causes problems. Momo was the only app chastised during the National Office Against Pornographic and Illegal Publication's latest crackdown on online porn. A report in Xinhua, the state-owned news agency, described it as "hormone-filled" and a tool for sex workers to lure customers.Lately, Momo has attempted to distance itself from its "hook-up" association through marketing campaigns. "It could be controversial for Momo to be associated with corrupting young people," said Steven Millward, chief editor of Tech in Asia. "We've seen recently that authorities are worried about people being corrupted by US television shows. There's an attempt to protect the moral fibre."For users such as Chen, Momo is simply a way to meet like-minded people. "Face-to-face we pretend to be pure and clean, but we all have dirty thoughts," he said. "I am still young, I wish to experience the best of life and in all honesty I enjoy having sex with different girls. Momo makes it happen."Some names have been changed
A key Twitter executive has resigned as the social media company struggles to convince investors that it can attract new users in the US.Ali Rowghani, the chief operating officer, had been charged with drawing more users to Twitter but growth has continued to be lacklustre and Twitter’s share price has fallen sharply.The company said it “does not intend to hire a replacement for the COO role, and all of Mr Rowghani’s operating responsibilities will be assumed by other members of the Twitter management team”.Rowghani tweeted: “Goodbye Twitter. It’s been an amazing ride, and I will cherish the memories.”Goodbye Twitter.  It&#39;s been an amazing ride, and I will cherish the memories.&mdash; Ali Rowghani (@ROWGHANI)June 12, 2014Dick Costolo, Twitter’s CEO,replied: “Thank you for being an incredible executive &amp; partner. Twitter could not have succeeded without you.”Twitter did not give a reason for Rowghani’s exit. The former Pixar finance chief was one of Costolo’s closest lieutenants and a key player at Twitter, having joined as finance director in 2010. Inside the company he was referred to as “co-CEO” and in April the Wall Street Journal called him Twitter’s “Mr Fix-It”. Twitter said he would continue to act as an adviser to Costolo.The exit of such a high-profile executive fuelled speculation that Twitter is continuing to struggle with questions about its growth strategy that have dogged the company since it went public last November.In April Twitter issued its second set of quarterly results as a public company and announced a massive rise in revenues. For the first three months of the year Twitter brought in $250m (£150m), an increase of 119% year on year. But its share price suffered a sharp fall as investors worried about its slowing growth rate.Twitter sold its shares at $26 apiece last November. They soared on the first day of trading, closing at $44.90, and reached $73 in December but have been on the slide ever since as analysts have highlighted the company’s seeming inability to pick up growth in the US, where it makes 75% of its ad revenue. After the news of Rowghani’s exit they stood at $36.75.A recent report from eMarketer estimated Twitter would grow nearly 25% in 2014, but mostly in Asia-Pacific countries. The report predicted US growth would fall to a single-digit percentage by 2015.Rowghani’s departure is the latest in a series of high-profile exits. Twitter’s product chief, Michael Sippey, resigned in January and in May Christopher Fry, the senior vice-president of engineering, left.News of Rowghani’s resignation surfaced on the tech news site Recode.net, whichsaid he had also caused tensionwith his decision to sell 300,000 shares in May for $9.9m as Twitter’s share price continued to come under pressure.
Amazon is the latest internet company to enter the streaming music market, debuting itsPrime Musicservice in the US today.It is being bundled into the existing Amazon Prime subscription service rather than launched as a standalone product.That means customers paying $99 a year for free shipping, streaming TV and films and Amazon&apos;s &quot;lending library&quot; of e-books will now also be able to access Prime Music&apos;s catalogue of streaming songs.The service is advertising-free, with no restrictions on how often individual songs can be played. Prime Music will work on iOS, Android, PC and Mac devices, as well as Amazon&apos;s Kindle Fire tablets. Customers will be able to download songs for offline listening too.Prime Music&apos;s catalogue is considerably smaller than rival services, though. Amazon has &quot;over a million songs&quot; available at launch in Prime Music. By contrast, Spotify and Deezer both claim to have more than 30m songs available.In Amazon&apos;s case, the small size of its catalogue may be partly a bet that a more mainstream audience of fans don&apos;t mind a smaller pool of music to choose from.Prime Music is launching withhundreds of &quot;Prime Playlists&quot;created by Amazon&apos;s editorial team, grouped by genre (Pop, Alternative &amp; Indie Rock) as well as context (Happy &amp; Upbeat, Party Time &amp; Entertaining, Work, Study &amp; Reading etc.)Many of those playlists offer a &quot;top songs&quot; guide to individual artists, from Whitney Houston and Prince to Franz Ferdinand and The Strokes. It&apos;s an indication that Amazon sees Prime Music as focused more on back catalogues than current hits.That backs up reports in May, whenBuzzFeed claimedthat the upcoming service &quot;will not include recent releases but instead restrict its catalog to songs and albums that are six months old and older&quot;.This week, theNew York Times claimedthat Prime Music &quot;will omit most new releases&quot; but also suggested that Amazon has only signed licensing deals with two of the three major labels – Sony Music and Warner Music Group – with Universal Music holding out for better terms.Spotify is the most established rival streaming service, with40m active users including 10m paying subscribers. The company has been tipped for a stock exchange flotation later in 2014.Other streaming services that have announced figures include Deezer, which has 16m active users including 5m paying subscribers, and Rhapsody, which has 1.7m paying subscribers across its US service and its Napster subsidiary elsewhere in the world.Beats Music, which was recently bought by Apple as part of a $3bn acquisition of its parent company Beats Electronics, has 250,000 paying subscribers. Meanwhile, the size of rivals from Microsoft (Xbox Music), Sony (Music Unlimited) and Google (All Access) is unknown.Amazon&apos;s streaming launch comes at a time when the company is embroiled in controversy over its distribution relationships with other entertainment rightsholders.The company hashalted pre-orders and removed discounts from books by publisher Hachettein the US during a contractual dispute, while alsopulling pre-orders for Warner Bros filmsin a similar row.•Spotify: five big challenges looming for streaming music services
The World Cup will be unavoidable over the next month, even if you loathe football and everything that&apos;s wrong with the game. The tournament will be everywhere, from the high street, to the pub, to your gran&apos;s living room.Cyber criminals are very happy about the febrile atmosphere around the beautiful game right now. For them, the World Cup is a perfect storm of scamming opportunities.That means trouble for internet users and businesses relying on the tournament for revenues, and should be a warning to be careful who you trust when it comes to football-related online activity.Or, as Rahul Kashyup, head of security research at security firm Bromium, puts it: &quot;Make &apos;paranoid&apos; your default setting when you go online during this World Cup.&quot;Phishing emails and scam sitesThe most prevalent threat this World Cup comes in the form of phishing attacks. These see messages sent over email and social networks promising all kinds of attractive content, from tickets and merchandise to footage of highlights or footballers behaving badly.Clicking on the links in these messages may put you at risk of infection or identity theft. “Victims are redirected to websites that trick them into revealing personal information or downloading and installing malicious software,” says Tom Cross, director of security research at Lancope.A common scam will present the user with a “necessary” software update that is supposedly required in order to play the video, notes Michael Sutton, VP of security research at Zscaler. Yet that update is just malware in disguise.These kinds of attack are common and they work.GFI, a security company, claimsthat between 70 and 100 new phishing malware websites appear every day related to the World Cup.In one case tracked by anti-virus firm Trend Micro, it uncovered a hoard of stolen credentials sold online by one of the cybercriminals using such phishing. “We believe that this particular cybercriminal has approximately 5,000 credit cards available to sell at any given time,” Trend researchers explained in ablog post.The best advice is to use simple common sense. “As always, it pays to exercise street smarts when you use the Internet. If you get an unsolicited email with a suspicious attachment, don&apos;t open it. Don&apos;t enter personal information into websites if you&apos;re unsure of who operates them. And if an offer seems too good to be true, it probably is,” says Cross.Sutton adds: “The best way for users to protect themselves is to apply some common sense to their browsing habits – just as we avoid walking down a seedy alley, we should avoid suspicious links and websites.“Users should be wary of downloading any unsolicited content or providing financial information to sites not officially affiliated with the FIFA World Cup. Looking for live coverage? Stick with one of theofficial broadcast partnersof the FIFA World Cup for the country that you&apos;re in.”Exploiting Cristiano Ronaldo loveOne subtle twist on this kind of phishing is to create sites that users will likely search for. Instead of sending people links, criminal hackers can rely on people to flock to their site in search of World Cup content.Intel-owned security company McAfee recently claimed that for this year’s competition, Portugal’s Cristiano Ronaldo is the world’s riskiest footballer to search for online. Crooks have created reams of websites claiming to offer screensaver downloads and videos around the Real Madrid star, but inside lurk threats.Searching for the latest Ronaldo content brings a more than 3.76% chance of landing on a website that presents some kind of danger, whether that’s malware or aggressive adverts that access more data from your computer than they should,McAfee said.For Lionel Messi, that drops to 3.72%, followed by Iker Casillas on 3.34%. There were no England players in the top 10, which tells you something about how cybercriminals see the team&apos;s chances of success at this World Cup.“Maximising on Ronaldo’s popularity, cybercriminals have laid a number of malware traps for fans who search for the player,” says Ashish Patel, McAfee&apos;s regional director for network security in the UK and Ireland.“Employees and home PC users should use tools to run a quick check on the legitimacy of the site, and try where possible to stick to official sites for downloads.” A good anti-virus product should come with a tool that checks website safety.Lionel Messi: officially less dangerous than Cristiano Ronaldo. In a cybersecurity sense, anyway. Photograph: Ronald Martinez/Getty ImagesAttacks on World Cup businessFor companies that are relying on the World Cup for business, now is a time of heightened danger. What if official sites go down so no one can check up on scores? Or merchandise websites stop working, meaning shoppers can’t buy kits and sellers miss out on significant revenue opportunities?In the past, hackers have been known to call businesses and hold them to ransom, threatening to knock them offline with denial of service attacks if payment is not received. Retail sites are a regular target for such targets, so anyone selling football gear this summer needs to take heed.Protesters might cause problems for business too. Hacktivist groupAnonymous has said it will be targeting World Cup sponsorsin protest at the sums of money being splurged on the competition, rather than on poor parts of Brazil. It has already claimed a successful attack on Brazil&apos;s Foreign Ministry networks, leaking apparently confidential emails.“There is no doubt that being able to successfully attack the World Cup network would appeal to a hacker looking for publicity, and there is a risk from people with specific geopolitical agendas,” says Jane Wainwright, PwC consultant and former head of corporate security for the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games.Wainwright, with obvious credentials in dealing with threats facing massive global events, recommends businesses take a collaborative approach to dealing with online targeting of their systems.“Organisations should be working together to identify whether the World Cup is being targeted, as they will have intelligence that they can share to help collectively defend the event. They also need to test their own organisation&apos;s resilience to an attack or incident,” she adds.&quot;The media is a useful channel for organisations to communicate to the public about the potential risks, and what to look out for in relation to rogue websites when buying merchandise or tickets online, or sharing their information on World Cup websites.&apos;&apos;Intelligence-based systems, which should pick up on any strange activity on the network, will help uncover nasties on the network too, adds Patel.“The sophisticated nature of advanced evasion techniques means companies could be unaware their networks are compromised, so it is important that businesses take serious measures to identify threats and remove them as soon as possible.”Dodgy World Cup Wi-FiFor anyone lucky enough to actually be at the World Cup in Brazil, there are many digital threats to watch out for. One likely avenue for attack will be via public Wi-Fi points either controlled by attackers, or monitored by them.When users get online via these Wi-Fi networks, their traffic can be intercepted. If it’s not properly protected, with things like encryption, attackers can pick up useful data, such as usernames and passwords.Insecure Wi-Fi hotspots, which don’t require proper authentication or provide decent protection around the data passing over the network, are rife in Brazil.Russian security firmKaspersky recently went to Sao Paulo, where many games will be held, in the middle of May 2014. It found more than 5,000 different access points in the city and “some of them are clearly not secured at all”, with 26% completely open and without encryption. These kinds of Wi-Fi points should be avoided.The same researchers warned about fake charging points. These will charge your battery over USB, but will also silently steal data from your smartphone and in some cases will upload viruses. Again, the advice is to only use points you’re fairly sure you can trust.“Anyone attending connecting a device to a public Wi-Fi hot spot, even at a trusted brand outlet, should be wary of the fact they could be opening the doors to a hacker and avoid accessing sensitive personal and work websites,” says James Nunn-Price, UK cyber security lead at Deloitte.Credit card skimmingKaspersky has alsowarnedabout the potential for credit card cloning and point of sale attacks, where people’s card data can be pilfered and used to steal funds. This can be done via skimmer devices attached to ATMs, whilst others have installed entirely fake cash machines.The best protection here is simply to keep your wits about you, says Kaspersky. “keen eye - if you see something that doesn’t look right, notify the bank or owner of the machine, and go somewhere else to withdraw your cash.”Hackers have found ways to get malware on to PIN pads, where the information is gleaned and sent to the criminals’ computers.“There is not much you can do to avoid falling victim to this, so please keep a close eye on your credit card statement to check all transactions and inform your bank immediately if you see something suspicious. Wherever possible try to pay using awirelesspoint of sale device – they’re a bit more secure than the older ones connected to serial or USB ports,” Kaspersky recommended.Whether you’re wrapped up in the World Cup hysteria or not, taking any of this advice on board will help you avoid digital attacks, whatever their form.•How to protect yourself from phishing attacks•How can I keep my Android tablet or smartphone secure?
A Twitter user trying to code an emoji heart inadvertently discovered a vulnerability which forced the service to temporarily shut down its Tweetdeck client.Twitter has now reopened Tweetdeck, having verified its security fix, but some users are still reporting issues due to caching of the web-based application.We&#39;ve verified our security fix and have turned TweetDeck services back on for all users. Sorry for any inconvenience.&mdash; TweetDeck (@TweetDeck)June 11, 2014The Austrian teenager,who goes by the name Firo online, was experimenting with Tweetdeck, trying to get the service to display the unicode ♥ character.&amp;euro; &amp;copy; &amp;hearts; &amp;uuml; ♥&mdash; Firo Xl (@firoxl)June 11, 2014In the process, he found that anything in a tweet ending with the heart symbol would be treated by Tweetdeck as though it was HTML code, which could be used tochange the formatting of tweets, orput an alert on users&apos; screens. Just 14 minutes after discovering the flaw,Firo told Twitter of its existence, but by then it was too late: the vulnerability was in the wild.Ninety minutes later, the first worm – the name given to a computer attack which is self-replicating – was created using the flaw, by German IT student @derGeruhn. The tweet uses the same vulnerability to make any user of an affected version of Tweetdeck retweet it automatically. At publication time, it has 81,500 retweets.&lt;script class=&quot;xss&quot;&gt;$(&#39;.xss&#39;).parents().eq(1).find(&#39;a&#39;).eq(1).click();$(&#39;[data-action=retweet]&#39;).click();alert(&#39;XSS in Tweetdeck&#39;)&lt;/script&gt;♥&mdash; *andy (@derGeruhn)June 11, 2014Although Twitter has announced the flaw is fixed, some users are still reporting issues. The Political Scrapbook blog was hit by derGeruhn&apos;s worm on Thursday morning, more than 12 hours after Twitter confirmed the fix. The persistence seems to be related to caching issues: on web-based services, both users&apos; computers and their internet service providers occasionally deliver old versions of webpages to save on bandwidth.Twitter has been asked for further comment on what users can do to be certain they are protected from the vulnerability, but has not responded at publication time.•Twitter shuts down Tweetdeck after XSS flaw leaves users vulnerable to account hijack
Sony&apos;s Playstation Vita TV, a hybrid console and set-top box launched in Asia in 2013, is coming to the US and Europe with a new name and price.The Playstation TV, as it&apos;s now called, is an £84.99 device that lies halfway between a Playstation 4 and an Apple TV. The console lets users stream music, TV and film content to the TV, in common with most set-top boxes, but it also acts as a mini Playstation: gamers can stream PS3 games, download Ps1, PSP and PS Vita games, play boxed copies of PS Vita games straight from the Vita card, and, if they own a PS4, play those games too, using remote play.In essence, the console is a stationary version of the Playstation Vita, Sony&apos;s latest portable games console. Released in Japan and Asia in November 2013, it has the same chipsets and system software as the Vita (although, since games are played with a normal Playstation 3 controller, not every Vita game is compatible: the portable console has a touch screen, rear touchpad, motion sensors, camera and microphones, none of which are replicated in the Playstation TV).But the most important aspect of Playstation TV, says Gartner analyst Brian Blau, is its forthcoming integration with Playstation Now,Sony&apos;s flat-price streaming service for games.&quot;There&apos;s going to be a lot of old games, classics, [in PS Now], games that you maybe played as a little kid,&quot; says Blau. &quot;They were the great ones back then. But the service also has games all the way through to more recent titles.&quot;Imagine looking at a movie service like Netflix. They don&apos;t necessarily have the entire catalogue of movies, but certainly you can browse Netflix and see a blockbuster you missed a few years ago, for whatever reason. You can play catch-up in that way, and that&apos;s how they&apos;re thinking of Playstation Now.&quot;Playstation Now will let gamers with a variety of devices play games streamed over a broadband connection. Unlike most downloadable software, the game itself runs on hardware in a data centre, and only the visuals and sound are sent, in real-time, to the player&apos;s system. That means that cheap hardware can theoretically play AAA titles.According to Blau, that lets Sony position the Playstation TV to appeal to people who don&apos;t consider themselves hardcore gamers, but have a fondness that goes beyond casual gaming.&quot;It&apos;s a game changer if you believe that games are going to be really popular in households, or if you believe games can extend beyond the core gamer in the household, and I think that&apos;s the case.&quot;I think it&apos;s a smart move by Sony to try to extend the tentacles of their ecosystem, making devices and services that can touch people at different points throughout the day. And that&apos;s an approach that we&apos;ve seen in different types of devices in the market.&quot;We look at Apple, and they do a good job of that, we look at Google and they do a good job of that. Sony&apos;s doing that in the spirit of games. Today, it looks like what they&apos;re doing is a good strategy.&quot;Playstation Now isn&apos;t the first attempt to launch a streaming service for games. In 2012,US company Onlive closed its doorsafter failing to convince gamers that they didn&apos;t need to own their games, or the devices on which they were played.&quot;They were pitching convenience,&quot;said industry analyst Nicholas Lovell at the time. &quot;No more physical discs, no more downloads, just fast instant games, whenever you wanted them. The problem was that those fast instant games were games that you didn&apos;t want.&quot;With Sony offering not just the hardware, but the games to match, it has a step-up on Onlive. The company is also attempting to get a jump on technology issues by putting Playstation Now out as an open beta.&quot;This is a grand experiment, at least for them. It&apos;s somewhat of a risk,&quot; says Blau. &quot;But having this open beta means that they can pre-empt some of the bigger issues.&quot;•E3 2014: Sony hits with Uncharted 4, GTA 5 and Grim Fandango
The latest Angry Birds game still involves birds battling pigs, but its gameplay has moved on from the physics-based flinging that made the franchise famous.Angry Birds Epic, released globally today for Android, iOS and Windows Phone devices, represents the series move into a new genre: roleplaying games (RPGs).However, it is also the latest effort by publisher Rovio to capitalise on the &quot;free-to-play&quot; business model that now dominates the mobile games industry.It&apos;s Rovio&apos;s second Angry Birds game built from the start as a free-to-play title that explores a new genre, following racing gameAngry Birds Go, which launched in December 2013.Angry Birds Epic has been available in Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Singapore since mid-March, as Rovio used early player feedback to hone the game and its system of in-app purchases.The game adopts a turn-based RPG format, with players taking a team of birds into battle with their pig enemies, levelling their characters up while acquiring and upgrading weapons, armour and potions along the way.It&apos;s free to download and play, but an in-app shop sells virtual coins, which can be spent on items and other gameplay features. The costs range from £0.69 for a &quot;pouch&quot; of 15 coins to £59.99 for a &quot;Mighty Eagle&apos;s Treasure Chest&quot; of 3,000 coins.That marks Angry Birds Epic out as a game for adults, but the franchise&apos;s popularity with children may cause concern among parents about its highest tiers of in-app purchase – just asthe option to pay £69.99 for a &quot;Big Bang Special Edition&quot; carin Angry Birds Go&apos;s beta sparked questions last year.Angry Birds Epic's in-app coins store.Rovio&apos;s early Angry Birds games were paid titles, bought with a single upfront purchase. Over time, the company diversified by adding in-app purchases, as well as building a thriving business in toys, merchandise and other licensed products.Even so, Angry Birds&apos; growth has paled next to the money being made by free-to-play games like Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans on smartphones and tablets.Rovio&apos;s financial results for 2013revealed revenues of €156m (£128.4m) compared to $1.9bn (£1.1bn) for Candy Crush developer King and $892m (£529.6m) for Clash of Clans maker Supercell.Angry Birds fans will be less concerned with Rovio&apos;s business, and more interested in whether Angry Birds Epic is a good game.&quot;The Angry Birds characters are a perfect fit for a role-playing game because they have strong personalities and individual superpowers. They are almost like character classes from the get go,&quot; said Rovio&apos;s executive vice president of games Jami Laes, in a statement.RPG purists may scoff, but early indications are that the blend of birds and battles works well. A couple of hours&apos; playing this morning revealed a well-crafted introduction to the game&apos;s features, plenty of slapstick humour, and the makings of an interesting system for crafting weapons.The real test will come further into the game, as it becomes clear how aggressively the in-app purchases are pushed, and how the game&apos;s various virtual currencies interlock.Coins exchangeable for &quot;snoutlings&quot; and &quot;essences of friendship&quot; used for certain tasks, although all can also be earned by playing.Angry Birds Epic&apos;s launch comes ahead of the next big expansion for Rovio&apos;s franchise: Angry Birds Stella. Aimed more at girls and women,that game will be released in September, alongside new toys, merchandise, books and cartoons.•Angry Birds: Rovio talks free-to-play, Stella and ToonsTV
Apple has introduced human curation for seven more categories on its App Store in Europe, as it tries to make it easier for people to find new iOS apps.iPhone and iPad owners visiting the productivity, photo &amp; video, sport, music, lifestyle, health and travel categories will now see recommendations and themed collections of apps from Apple&apos;s editorial teams.Until today, only five App Store categories – games, kids, education, food and Newsstand – were curated. Homepages for other categories simply displayed lists of new and popular apps chosen by an algorithm.Alongside today&apos;s changes, Apple is launching a new &quot;landing page&quot; on the App Store to point visitors in the direction of the curated categories. The changes will be seen on PCs and Macs, as well as iOS devices.The move brings App Stores across Europe closer to those in the US and Canada, where every app category has human curators.Here are before and after shots of the changes to the travel category on the App Store’s desktop version:The UK App Store's travel category homepage.And here are before and after shots of the changes on iPad:The iPad version of the App Store's travel category homepage.The changes are the latest move by Apple to grapple with the problem – one also faced by Google with its Google Play store for Android devices – of helping people navigate through the clutter of a million-strong catalogue of apps.The App Store now has 1.2m apps, and attracts 300m visitors a week, having generated more than 75bn app downloads since its launch in 2008.Browsing the uncurated App Store categories has been something of a lottery until now: it&apos;s not uncommon to see Chinese-language apps cluttering up the category homepages in the UK App Store, for example.By expanding its editorial teams, Apple hopes that the apps people see first when browsing the newly-curated categories will be more culturally and locally relevant.Themed collections are likely to play a major role, too. Games shows the model in action: Apple&apos;s editorial staff have created collections including Popular Puzzlers, The Best Games You&apos;ve Never Played, It Came From Japan and Indie Game Showcase.iOS developers in the seven newly-curated categories will welcome the changes, which provide more slots on the App Store for Apple to promote their apps.Previously, they had to hope the company would spotlight them on the store&apos;s overall homepage, while relying on the often-eccentric App Store algorithm to show their apps on the category homepages.At its recent WWDC developer conference, the company revealed more changes on the way for its storeas part of the company&apos;s iOS 8 software, which will be released in the autumn.They include better search features, video previews of apps, and the ability for developers to sell multiple apps in discounted bundles.Google is holding its developer conference,I/O, on 25-26 June, where it may well unveil its own improvements to Android&apos;s Google Play store.•WWDC 2014: five key points from Apple&apos;s address
If the Arkham Knight demo shown at E3 is anything to go by, Gotham&apos;s greatest enemy may not be the Penguin, the Joker or any other sociopathic super villain. It may be Batman&apos;s car. At the rate this armoured wrecking machine is able to plough through the city, there won&apos;t be much left of the Dark Knight&apos;s hometown by closing credits.The Batmobile isn’t a car. It’s hell on wheels. Not only can it smash through fences, road barriers and concrete walls, it can deploy a powerful winch to rip down steel blockades and turn sections of the road into a ramp. And that’s before you get into the vehicle&apos;s Tank Mode, which gives the player a Vulcan Cannon and a set of missiles, allowing it to reduce other vehicles to smouldering metallic skeletons.Batman was always a pretty formidable character, but with Rocksteady’s version of his classic ride, he&apos;s a one-man mobile army, causing carnage on the streets, then using the car’s ejector seat to land a flying kick into the face of some ne’er-do-well.By all accounts, Batman is going to need these new abilities, as well as his new combat prowess, which allows him to use pieces of his environment to floor opponents. Not only has the Scarecrow threatened to detonate a fear toxin bomb that’ll cover the entire eastern seaboard, but most of Gotham’s more colourful villains have taken control of the streets and there’s a brand new villain in play – the Arkham Knight. This new rogue is hell-bent on the Dark Knight’s destruction and from the snippets of conversation in the E3 demo he seems to know Batman quite intimately; his hatred seems personal and he knows enough to direct his henchmen to fire at the weakest parts of Batman’s body armour.The E3 demo showed that a lot of what made the Arkham series great is still in place, such as the brilliant way the game switches from stealth to combat to puzzle solving without missing a beat. But it also shows that the new features – the Batmobile, the new takedowns, the ability to launch higher and glide for longer – compliment both the existing mechanics and the game’s sprawling open-world structure. Nothing here seems done for the sake of it. Everything clicks together beautifully. Players may be in for a grim time in Gotham, but they’ll probably love every minute of it.• Batman Arkham Knight is coming to PC, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in 2015•Batman: Arkham Knight preview – fear and freedom in Gotham
On this showAleks Krotoskiis joined by Guardian Technology EditorCharles Arthurand Guardian tech reporterAlex Hernto discuss the recent success of a group of computer scientists in passing the Turing test.  The Guardian tech team discuss the value of Turing's suggested game and how far we are from an unambiguous experience of artificial intelligence.  Also we discuss astronaut Reid Wiseman's first Vine from space and why Nasa get social media so right and web pioneer Ted Nelson's release of OpenXanadu software after a 54-year delay. FinallyKeith Stuartreports on this year's E3 games expo.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHere's why the new Tizen smartphone OS will go nowhere &gt;&gt; Generator ResearchAndrew Sheehy is the chief analyst:The announcement of the first Tizen smartphone on 2nd June 2014 shows that Tizen has now moved up a level - to the second least valuable layer. That's two boxes ticked, but the third box will be a lot harder to tick as it will mean attracting a critical mass of developers: at Apple's WWDC held on June 2nd 2014, Tim Cook stated that there were 9 million registered Apple developers.Because most developers already write their apps for Android and iOS, a decision to  start developing for Tizen will mean allocating 30% of their development time to a platform that accounts for a vanishingly small percentage of the market. This does not sound like a very interesting business case. Therefore, the only markets where Tizen has a hope of attracting a critical mass of developers are those where Android and iOS have low market shares, and there are very few of those.Um.. smartwatches?How Lytro shot and killed WYSIWYG &gt;&gt; FortuneExcept it's more like how the rest of the business shot and (nearly) killed Lytro:As bold as the vision is, it's not clear the world wants a new camera. Initially, Lytro's debut was met with wide accolades even before the camera came to market. In 2011, during a product demo at Fortune's Brainstorm Tech in Aspen, Ng tapped an image to crystalize the details of a woman's face, and an audience of nearly 300 tech entrepreneurs gasped audibly. He won awards for innovation, and raised $50m. Andreessen Horowitz partner Ben Horowitz joined the board. In October 2011, Lytro began to sell a $399 rectangle camera in bright colors.No one bought it.Well, not exactly no one, but sales were disappointing. (Lytro denies sales were below expectations.) Ng had introduced a low-cost point-and-shoot at precisely the moment that many of us decided we didn't really need a camera anymore. Our smartphones would do.The technology is Blade Runner-ish (if you recall the refocussing scene) but HTC has shown how to do it with two cameras near each other, plus software - much cheaper and built in to the phone.Apple, Samsung &amp; the great cluster &gt;&gt; Counterpoint TechnologyNeil Shah points out that around 33% of the smartphone business is divvied up between 10 brands, all with nearly equal share. So who's next to rise?Making my Surface 2 more 'lapable' with a little bit of DIY &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Branscombe:typing fast moved the keyboard enough to bounce the Surface 2 up and down slightly; too much of that and it can tip right over backward, even on the extra surface. I do type at speed and with some vigour.I grabbed the lanyard my badge was hanging from and looped it over the keyboard where it connects to the Surface and under the Samsung slab, knotting it firmly at the end. The extra stabilisation held the Surface 2 perfectly in place no matter how hard I was typing, and let it balance at much more extreme angles. Thanks to the magnetic connector, I could leave the lanyard tied onto the base and just unsnap the keyboard when I didn't want the extra support.The elastic holds the keyboard down for extra stability. Image: Mary BranscombeI improved on this by replacing the lanyard with an elastic headband I found on sale in a drugstore for 50 cents, in my trademark lime green (there are another two in the packet if the elastic stretches too much). Pull it tight, knot firmly and snug it up against the keyboard where it meets the Surface.Inside a startup's plan to turn a swarm of DIY satellites into an all-seeing eye &gt;&gt; WIREDLooking at Skybox - just acquired for $500m by Google - in August 2013:Forty years after humans first saw pictures of a blue and white marble taken from space, it's remarkable how few new images of Earth we get to lay eyes on. Of the 1,000 or more satellites orbiting the planet at any given time, there are perhaps 100 that send back visual data. Only 12 of those send back high-resolution pictures (defined as an image in which each pixel represents a square meter or less of ground), and only nine of the 12 sell into the commercial space-based imaging market, currently estimated at $2.3 billion a year. Worse still, some 80 percent of that market is controlled by the US government, which maintains priority over all other buyers: If certain government agencies decide they want satellite time for themselves, they can simply demand it. Earlier this year, after the government cut its imaging budget, the market's two biggest companies—DigitalGlobe and GeoEye, which between them operate five of the nine commercial geoimaging satellites—were forced to merge. Due to the paucity of satellites and to the government's claim on their operations, ordering an image of a specific place on Earth can take days, weeks, even months.Building satellites isn't trivial, but the article implies that Skybox's real secret sauce is in its algorithms; the cameras it uses aren't super-high-tech, but the algorithms used for data processing are. And that's why Google would seek a matchup.Mozilla to sell ultra-low-cost smartphones in India soon &gt;&gt; Total TelecomMozilla plans to bring what it describes as ultra-low-cost smartphones to India in the near future.The operating system provider on Tuesday said it has partnered with Indian device makers Intex and Spice to enable it to launch the first Firefox OS devices in the country "in the next few months".A statement from the company suggests the phones will be based on the chipset solution Mozilla has developed with Spreadtrum. In February the two companies announced they were working together to create a chipset that would power smartphones costing less than $25. That ultra-low-cost solution is now available, Mozilla said.The right market to go for (India is giant, Nokia is fading, and people want something new) but will it be in time to compete with Android/AOSP phones from local and foreign names?What product designers can learn from iOS 8's iMessage changes &gt;&gt; Scott HurffIf you build products for a living, there's a lot to learn from iOS 8's iMessage changes — both on the user interface side and on the customer development side.Gestures and interactions and content expiry, all tied around the way that (younger) users naturally interact. For older, less savvy users, the same interaction still works. This is a study in how to add a layer of swifter interaction to an existing widely-used app without breaking - or even changing - the existing controls or interactions. In that sense, worth considering in detail.The greatest show on earth &gt;&gt; AsymcoHorace Dediu with a neat metaphor:So this was the way I saw WWDC 2014. A cement conference cheered by cement enthusiasts but leaving Architectural Digest writers asking what the fuss was all about.(See alsohis metaphor of Google and dams.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Did you miss me?
Professor Warwick's claim that a computer has now passed the Turing Test (Did Eugene the computer program pass Turing test?, 10 June) is nonsense. Turing never set a 30% mark as a criterion for "passing" his test. In his famous essay on this topic, which is reprinted with commentaries in my book, Parsing the Turing Test: Methodological and Philosophical Issues in the Quest for the Thinking Computer, Turing merely conjectured that by 2000 a computer program would be able to fool an "average interrogator" into thinking it was a person 30% of the time in a five-minute conversation. He didn't propose that as a test of anything; he was merely speculating.Turing never actually said how his test could actually be passed, but a blue ribbon panel of computer scientists and philosophers from Harvard, MIT, and elsewhere which I directed for several years in planning the first Loebner Prize contest in 1990, came up with with a brilliant method that I am sure would have pleased Turing greatly: after lengthy conversations with both hidden humans and hidden computers, a panel ranks the humanness of each, and when the median rank of a computer exceeds the median rank of a human, it wins. No computer has ever crossed that line in the more than 20 years the contest has so far been held, but it will happen eventually.Professor Robert EpsteinAmerican Institute for Behavioral Research and Technology• You report that the Turing test "challenges computer scientists to create a program that is indistinguishable from a person in&nbsp;its conversational ability". But that assumes that there is just one way of talking that we all recognise as "conversation". Research in socio-cultural linguistics has shown&nbsp;that speakers can choose from a&nbsp;variety of conversational styles:&nbsp;for example,&nbsp;a one-at-a-time way of talking as opposed to a&nbsp;more collaborative, all-in-it-together way; they&nbsp;can choose to&nbsp;jump from topic to topic as opposed to moving&nbsp;gradually from one topic to the next; they can self-disclose or they can opt for less personal subjects. These are just three variables.&nbsp;Most of us can do all these things, depending on context, but there is a great deal of evidence that female&nbsp;speakers in relaxed conversation with friends prefer the former of each of these styles, and male speakers prefer the latter. Since most computer scientists are male, I worry that the test is likely to favour an idea of conversation&nbsp;as being&nbsp;an information-focused activity rather than an interactive process&nbsp;which builds relationships between people.Given the potential&nbsp;future of "chatbots", surely it is important that we judge them on their ability to develop relationships and&nbsp;express feelings&nbsp;as much as on their ability to take part in a&nbsp;narrow, information-focused exchange?&nbsp;Jennifer CoatesEmeritus professor of English language and linguistics,University of Roehampton, London• The Turing test has not been "officially" passed at all. Turing said that most of the interrogators had to be fooled, and that the conversation would have to take a long time. Plus, it's a chatbot, not an artificial intelligence program; and pretending to be a&nbsp;child whose first language is not English is clearly a cheat. AI is an impossible and wildly hubristic project. Give it up.Chris HughesLeicester
Several major European cities ground to a halt on Wednesday as licensed taxi drivers took to the streets in mass protests against the smartphone taxi app Uber.Demonstrations in London, Paris, Madrid, Barcelona, Berlin, Milan and Rome caused travel chaos and long tailbacks, as taxi drivers protested against the app, which they argue is unregulated and threatens their livelihood.In London, Trafalgar Square and Whitehall were jammed from the start of the planned "go slow" at 2pm, as thousands of black cabs gathered honking their horns, bringing total gridlock to the centre of the capital, while supporters waved banners and started occasionally chanting: "Boris,&nbsp;out!"A spokeswoman for Uber, the US start-up which links minicab drivers to passengers via a GPS-based smartphone app, said the protests had boosted new users in London by 850%, as people tried to cope with the gridlock.But the company, based in San Francisco and backed by Google and Goldman Sachs, came under increasing pressure to be more transparent about its tax set-up.Taxi associations claim Uber routes its payments through headquarters in the Netherlands to minimise its corporation tax payments in France, the UK and Germany – in a similar manner to Apple and Starbucks, which have found themselves in the firing line for the practice.Steve McNamara, the general secretary of the Licensed Taxi Drivers' Association – which was joined by the London Cab Drivers Club and the transport workers' union RMT – said the cab drivers were not demonstrating against Uber but against Transport for London.By using a driver's mobile phone to track a journey and charge a fare on the distance and time travelled, Uber was operating with a meter, he said, which under current regulations only licensed black cabs are allowed to do."The problem here is that Uber is operating outside the law. There is no question about that. But someone on high has made a decision to leave Uber alone. Why? It is sinister," McNamara said.Taxi associations argue that black cab meter rates are fixed, whereas Uber's fares are set by the company, which enables it to charge a "surge" fee during busy periods. They add that they have to undergo criminal checks and medicals, be wheelchair accessible, and pass the Knowledge test, but that Uber drivers need only a minicab licence and commercial insurance.Transport for London has now referred the matter to the high court. McNamara questioned the issuing of a licence to Uber when its tax status was unclear. "Why do Uber's invoices go through Holland? I don't particularly care if Uber are paying enough tax in the UK, but that is something that should concern Boris."In a statement, the company said: "Uber complies with all applicable tax laws, and pays taxes in all jurisdictions, such as corporate income tax, payroll tax, sales and use tax, and VAT."Jo Bertram, the UK &amp; Ireland general manager for Uber, said the number of people downloading the app in London had increased by 850%, compared with the same time on Wednesday last week. "The results are clear: London wants Uber in a big way," she said. "Unsurprisingly, the LTDA, which is stuck in the dark ages, is intent on holding London to ransom and causing significant economic impact to Londoners."Asked what specific tax the company paid in the UK, and why its invoices go through an office in the Netherlands, she said she had nothing to add to the&nbsp;statement.Leon Daniels, TfL's managing director of surface transport, said the strike had been "good natured" and he estimated the number of cabs at around 5,000."As a result of close co-operation between TfL and the Metropolitan Police Service the number of other road users caught in the congestion was minimised," he said. "The important thing now is continue with the process to get legal clarity on the issue of taxi meters. I hope that the industry will join us in taking that to a conclusion with all due speed."In Italy, where Uber has been provoking protests from taxi drivers in Milan and Rome since last year, strikes and protests were held not only in the app's two Italian strongholds but also in other cities keen to stave off its arrival.About 150 drivers protested in Naples, the Ansa news agency reported, while in the northern city of Verona drivers staged a one-hour strike – in solidarity with their Milanese colleagues but "above all against the possibility that the Uber app could spread to Verona too," a statement said.In Milan, where the strike was due to last until 10pm local time, organisers said the action was about "not surrendering a sector to a multinational which cares about revenue and not service, without even paying taxes in Italy".Spain saw similar scenes, as Madrid's ubiquitous white taxis began a 24-hour strike to protest against Uber and other similar smartphone apps. The two main taxi associations said 100% of their members had parked their cars for the day in an effort to raise awareness over what they called unfair competition. While taxi licences in Spain cost between €80,000 and €200,000, there is no such requirement for drivers with Uber.Protests were also held in Barcelona, the only Spanish city where Uber is currently in use. On Tuesday, two months after the app was introduced there, the Catalan government announced it would demand Uber "immediately" cease its activity in Barcelona, and drivers who use it could be fined up to €6,000 and see their vehicles impounded.Uber has expanded rapidly since it was launched in 2010 by two US technology entrepreneurs, Travis Kalanick and Garrett Camp. The company, which was last week valued at $18bn (£11bn) in an oversubscribed fundraising, operates in London, Manchester and more than 100 cities in 37 countries and has faced opposition in most of them.It is banned in Las Vegas and Miami and is facing lawsuits in Chicago, San Francisco and Washington, DC.Speaking from his stationary cab in Whitehall, Carl Williams said cab drivers welcomed competition. "We've been in competition with minicabs for 40 years. This is not about competition, it's a regulation issue: if you want to give Uber meters fine – but, like ours, that meter should be regulated."
A &quot;cross-site scripting&quot; (XSS) vulnerability has been discovered on Twitter&apos;s Tweetdeck client, leaving millions of users open to account hijacking and more.Twitter has shut down Tweetdeck while it fixes the problem, despite earlier promising that it had been fixed.The normal Twitter web interface, and other apps such as Echofon which use Twitter&apos;s API, do not seem to be affected. Tweetdeck is aimed at professionals and provides a web- or app-based interface to Twitter with the ability to show multiple views of different searches and users.We&#39;ve temporarily taken TweetDeck services down to assess today&#39;s earlier security issue. We&#39;ll update when services are back up.&mdash; TweetDeck (@TweetDeck)June 11, 2014The flaw leads to vulnerable versions of Tweetdeck (3.7.1-19002e5) running javascript code contained in tweets from other sites. Most attacks using the vulnerability are no more than irritations,opening warning dialogues on users&apos; computers- though one version created a retweet of itself, and spread 38,000 times in two minutes, and another changed the font on Tweetdeck itself to Comic Sans.The original advice offered by the official Tweetdeck account claimed that the flaw had been fixed, and that users should log out and back in to their accounts to get the update.A security issue that affected TweetDeck this morning has been fixed. Please log out of TweetDeck and log back in to fully apply the fix.&mdash; TweetDeck (@TweetDeck)June 11, 2014But others found that the flaw persisted, despite following the official advice.Welp. Logged out of Tweetdeck, logged back in, and got this: So clearly Twitter&#39;s &quot;fix&quot; does not work!pic.twitter.com/Sv7bpvaqfQ&mdash; Matt Rosoff (@MattRosoff)June 11, 2014&quot;Logged out of Tweetdeck, logged back in, and got this,&quot;tweetedjournalist Matt Rosoff, posting a picture of a harmless XSS exploit. &quot;So clearly Twitter&apos;s &apos;fix&apos; does not work!&quot;Tweetdeck then acknowledged that the fault had not been fixed:We&#39;ve temporarily taken TweetDeck services down to assess today&#39;s earlier security issue. We&#39;ll update when services are back up.&mdash; TweetDeck (@TweetDeck)June 11, 2014&quot;We&apos;ve temporarily taken TweetDeck services down to assess today&apos;s earlier security issue,&quot; ittweeted. &quot;We&apos;ll update when services are back up.&quot;Theoretically, such flaws can be used to take over accounts, post tweets, unfollow and follow people, and more.Twitter itselfsuffered a similar vulnerability in September 2010that proved embarrassing after it was discovered by an Australian teenager.Tweetdeck was originally a British company, and wasacquired by Twitterfor about £25m ($40m) in May 2011.Twitter had not responded to a request for comment by the time of publication.
Since Tuesday, running a personal website has become a privacy minefield for people using .uk domain names. A recent rule change by Nominet, the company which manages the .uk registry, means that domain name owners whose home addresses were previously kept private may now be publicly visible in online searches. People setting up domain names through Nominet must now also show their full legal personal or business name on the public registration database.Nominet was previously liberal in allowing individuals who had registered domain names to opt out of having their postal addresses shown in WHOIS search, but nowa new broader policyis being strictly enforced. It reads, in part:Only domain name holders who are &quot;non-trading individuals&quot; can opt out of having their address details published on the WHOIS. In other words, if the registrant is not a business or organisation and – in the case of domain names registered to individuals – you do not use or plan to use your domain name for business, trade (such as pay-per-click advertising, etc.) or professional transactions, you may opt out of having your address displayAndrew Norton, who blogs about politics and statistics on his website at ktetch.co.uk,fell foul of this new policy in May. Nominet raised its concerns with Norton about the content of his site - he includes the email discussion on his site - and shortly afterwards revealed his home address in the public WHOIS search while the matter was still being investigated.Norton rented a PO Box address to use as his public address while Nominet wouldn&apos;t let him keep his details private; but the organisation has now recanted, and hidden them, presumably accepting that his site is - as he said all along - non-commercial.Nominet’s treatment of Norton suggests that its definition of commercial and professional activity is broad and includes activities where no contracts are made or money changes hands between the website owner and their visitors.In Norton’s case, Nominet was concerned that he included a link to Amazon for a book he’d written, a pay-per-click banner and a free email list subscription widget on his site. None of these involved Norton entering into contracts with his website visitors, nor directly receiving money from them. It’s very hard to see how any visitor to Norton’s site would be reassured to buy a book from Amazon, click a banner or sign up for a free newsletter by being able to obtain his home postal address.Norton has made a complaint to the information commissioner over Nominet’s release of his private information.As many internet businesses are strengthening their customers’ privacy features in the wake of Edward Snowden’s revelations it’s surprising to see Nominet moving in the other direction. But one clue might be in its use of language. In an email to Andrew Norton, a Nominet representative wrote:To opt out, you must be a ‘consumer’ i.e. an individual who has registered and is using the domain name for a purpose unconnected with any business, trade (this includes the registration of domain names for monetisation purposes, e.g. pay per click advertising etc) or profession.This unusual use of the word “consumer” suggests a binary view of the world: website owners are either businesses, or they’re customers. They’re either selling, or (potentially) buying. It’s either all business and professional content, or none at all.But many people, Andrew Norton included, don’t fall neatly into one category or another. Many bloggers include affiliate links to related products or web hosting on their sites to try to offset their running costs but they’re not set up to be businesses or to turn a profit. And there are many professional people in full time employment who write about their profession or industry, sometimes pseudonymously. Would Nominet insist that the teacher or police officer who blogs on their own .uk domain must reveal their home address to the world?On Twitter, the organisation has indicated that it won&apos;t be absolute.@adrianshort@jimmy_wales@ktetch1/2 it is not our intention to apply policy over zealously &amp; undermine privacy.&mdash; Nominet (@Nominet)June 6, 2014@adrianshort@jimmy_wales@ktetch2/2 We&#39;ll reconsider marginal cases &amp; update approach&mdash; Nominet (@Nominet)June 6, 2014&quot;It is not our intention to apply policy over zealously &amp; undermine privacy,&quot; Nominet&apos;s official Twitter account tweeted on 6 June. &quot;We&apos;ll reconsider marginal cases and update [our] approach.&quot;In a statement to the Guardian, Nominet said:&quot;The WHOIS opt-out exists to protect consumer privacy when using UK domain names for your website and it is widely used. In fact over 2m of our 10.5m registrations have successfully opted out, so it is incorrect to draw the conclusion that our rules are prohibitively tight. You have to be an individual to qualify to opt out. Individuals can chose to opt out unless they are trading.&quot;However, we have always felt that when you traded with a website, you have a right to know who the proprietor is. Ensuring these registrants are “opted in” gives recourse in cases of fraud, missed delivery, etc., - and other things you’d expect of trading organisations – any consumer can look up the registrant of a website in the WHOIS and contact them if necessary.&quot;It added:&quot;Our policy on WHOIS opt-out has not changed in several years. However, we totally appreciate that since these rules were drawn up, the nature of trading online has changed – and there are some grey areas- such as affiliate marketing, pay-per-click etc. In many cases, the definition of what constitutes trading, and what a reasonable threshold is not absolute.We will review our guidelines and policy around privacy opt-outs, as we want a sensible approach that is sensitive to those who rightly wish to keep their details private, and fair to consumers who expect to know who they are dealing with. We will implement any changes we consider necessary.&quot;Even so, independent web publishers struggle to maintain their privacy and freedom of speech online and Nominet’s new rules could make .uk a hostile environment for them. Imagine that you want to run a site or blog that could be controversial. You’re not doing anything illegal, but you have perfectly good reasons to want to keep this activity separate from your professional or family life. You can choose to use a blogging network like WordPress.com or Blogger, or perhaps a social media site like Facebook or Tumblr. But then you’ll be bound by the complex and ever-shifting content and behaviour rules of those platforms. A more reliable approach, if you want to keep your site free from interference and maintain your privacy, would be to goIndieWeb style: register your own domain name and host your site somewhere that permits any legal content.Take Brooke Magnanti, the writer who made her (pseudo) name with the sex work blogBelle de Jour.Magnanti hosted (and still hosts) her site on Google-owned Blogger. But imagine if she’d decided to keep more control of her content by registering a .uk domain name and setting up her own web hosting. Under Nominet’s new rules this would be almost impossible. While Magnanti was careful to protect her legal identity and her working pseudonym, arguably a blog about her sex work experiences would itself be classed as commercial. Even if it weren’t, what would happen once she’d got her book deal and linked to the Amazon page for her pseudonymous book? If she were treated like Andrew Norton she’d not just be outed with her real name but her home address too. Is there room in .uk for current and future Belles du Jour?In a hamfisted attempt to make .uk a safe space for businesses and their customers, Nominet is squeezing out the rich diversity of social, political, cultural and creative independent web publishers. Nominet insists that domain registrants use their legal names and now verifies registrations against the electoral roll – so forget about whistleblowers, critical insiders, dissidents and radical activists setting up on .uk. Yet it&apos;s a proviso that&apos;s only being applied online. In the UK there’s no general legal requirement to use your legal name or to stick to a single name, even when doing business and making contracts. Provided you’re not defrauding anyone, you could use a different pseudonym for every day of the week. Yet at the slightest whiff of anything Nominet considers to be commercial or professional - which with rules as broad and as vague as Nominet’s could be almost anything - your home address could be revealed to the world, even, as with Andrew Norton, while you’re appealing against their decision.Of course it doesn’t need to be like this. Nominet could limit its strict rules on legal names and public addresses to websites that literally sell off the page. If I’ve got a link to Amazon, I’m not doing that, but Amazon is. A site that uses banner ads isn’t taking any cash from its visitors. At the same time, .uk could be a genuine haven for independent web publishers with something to say who’d like to take advantage of the UK’s relatively liberal laws on freedom of expression without having to sacrifice their privacy in the process.Instead, Nominet has made .uk a virtual emirate: open for business, closed for anonymous dissent and diversity if it links to anywhere commercial. We know that anonymity and privacy are often prerequisites for genuine free speech. How dismal that UK citizens who want to speak freely online without being outed now have to virtually emigrate to an overseas jurisdiction such as the US-based .org registry.As Nominet moves away from being a neutral registry and becomes effectively a regulator, it’s time to consider bringing it under statutory control, making its rules clear, its policymaking democratic and its actions transparent and accountable. Unless and until wiser heads prevail, if you value your privacy, stay away from .uk.•Edward Snowden calls for greater online privacy in Reset the Net campaign
First they came for Harry Potter&apos;s author, and now they have come for your Lego. Amazon has expanded its trade dispute with publisher Hachette by adding Warner Bros to the list of companies it is pressuring for a better deal.The online retailer has pulled pre-orders for forthcoming Warner Home Video features, including international blockbuster The Lego Movie, 300: Rise of an Empire, Winter’s Tale and Transcendence.The move comes as Amazon continues to delay shipments andrefuse pre-orders for some titles from Hachette, publisher of Harry Potter author JK Rowling, and home to David Baldacci, Stephen Colbert, David Foster Wallace and others. The retailer is also in another standoff in Germany with the Bonnier Media Group.The details of the dispute are not public. Amazon is fighting with Hachetteover the price of e-books, and analysts speculated a similar dispute could be at play with Warner over pay for digital copies of its moviesNone of the parties involved are talking, but it is clear that Hachette and Warner are hoping the popularity of their products will give them the edge in the dispute.The Lego Movie has so far made more than $462m worldwide, according to Boxoffice.com. The DVD is released on 17 June but doesn’t even show up in a search for “The Lego Movie” on Amazon. It is the top placed item for the same search onWalmart.com.Boxoffice’s Phil Contrino said he expected The Lego Movie to be “massive”. “DVD sales are falling away to digital copies but this is a film that plays to families who are still more likely to buy DVDs,” he said.Amazon will face another test later next week with the release ofRowling’s latest crime thriller. Writing underthe pseudonym Robert Galbraithher next crime novel, The Silkworm hits stores on 19 June.Last year after Rowling was revealed to be the author of the first Galbraith novel, The Cuckoo’s Calling, the novel became Amazon’s top seller.Amazon.comcustomers can sign up to find out when the book is available while the book is ready for pre-order onbarnesandnoble.com.Amazon sought to address customers’ concerns aboutthe Hachette fracaslast month by pointing out that the publisher’s products represent a very small proportion of its sales. &quot;Negotiating with suppliers for equitable terms and making stocking and assortment decisions based on those terms is one of a bookseller&apos;s, or any retailer&apos;s, most important jobs,&quot;Amazon wrote. &quot;Suppliers get to decide the terms under which they are willing to sell to a retailer.&quot;It also encouraged buyers to look for used copies – a sale that would not benefit the publisher or author. Amazon has yet to comment on the Warner dispute.The disagreements have led to a backlash from customers and authors. Comedian Stephen Colbert giving the company the middle finger on his show and calling Amazon boss Jeff Bezos’s “Lord Bezo-Mort” in reference to Rowling’s Harry Potter villain.
&quot;Be not afeard. The isle is full of noises,Sounds and sweet airs that give delight and hurt not.Sometimes a thousand twangling instrumentsWill hum about mine ears, and sometime voicesThat, if I then had waked after long sleep,Will make me sleep again; and then, in dreaming,The clouds methought would open, and show richesReady to drop upon me, that when I waked,I cried to dream again.&quot;William Shakespeare, The TempestNintendo games are about the ruthless and efficient production of joy. Every interactive system is designed and then tweaked by single-minded experts to wring out from the player a rising sense of pleasure. There is no escape; there is only submission. Whatever has gone wrong for Nintendo in the past two years, the doom-mongers have never been able to take that away. If you don&apos;t understand it, you&apos;ll never truly understand games.And so after the triumphant announcement of fresh Zelda and Star Fox titles, came Nintendo&apos;s E3 showfloor collection. It is pretty delightful. Yoshi&apos;s Woolly World is a handicraft platformer that takes the aesthetics of Kirby&apos;s Epic Yarn and applies them to a saccharine co-op platformer, as rich, plump and delicious as homemade fruit cake. Here players control the cutesy dinosaur and friend as they travail worlds built out of stretches of felt and fluffy wool, discovering hidden passages and collecting items.By hitting one button, Yoshi&apos;s tongue shoots out, which can either trap enemies, or it&apos;ll gobble up the other player character, allowing you to spit your pal at out-of-reach goodies or nearby foes – it can also be used to grab pieces of yarn, unravelling walls to reveal secret passageways. It&apos;s a familiar mechanic, harking back to the eat-and-shoot interplay in Bobble Bubble, but it&apos;s so wonderfully implemented and every animation is a delight.Kirby&apos;s claymation kingdomKirby and the Rainbow Curse uses a similar hand-crafted 2D platformer look, but employs it in a different way. Here the lead character becomes a ball of modelling clay in a plasticine world, and players must guide him through increasingly tricky levels, by tapping the stylus on the screen to make him move, then drawing rainbow ropes across the screen to climb up on to higher platformers. Collecting 100 stars provides a boost which lets the malleable hero bash through denser obstacles and collect bonus items; there are spring boards to jump on and cannons to be shot out of.There are also tank levels where Kirby becomes an armoured vehicle able to shoot enemies out of the sky while rolling relentlessly forward. On water stages, ropes must be drawn to keep the character submerged rather than bobbing to the surface. It&apos;s sickly sweet again, a gaming equivalent of a French Fancy, but underneath, the interface allows for subtle puzzles and delicate experimentation.Toad in the roleThe cute just keeps on giving. Captain Toad: Treasure Hunter is a compactly designed three-dimensional puzzler, in which the character from Super Mario 3D world gets his own dedicated outing. Moving the gamepad rotates each multi-levelled stage, allowing you to spot traps, bridges and secret areas, while avoiding enemies and hitting a button to dig beneath plants for special items. Patrolling baddies can be momentarily stopped by putting a finger over them on the Game Pad screen allowing you to scamper past.It&apos;s all about studying and understanding a range of intricately constructed buildings and environments – sort of Mario meets Fez. I also got to try a mine cart level, where you speed along the tracks using the GamePad to aim at enemies and bonus items at which you fire turnips. It is fun. Always with the fun.Lemmings on a suger rushThen I played Mario v Donkey Kong, the Wii U version of the hit DS and 3DS series of Lemmings-like puzzlers. The gameplay is immediately familiar, guiding a group of clockwork Marios through a hazard littered environment by placing and removing girder bridges at key points. It&apos;s not innovative, it&apos;s not doing much that previous versions didn&apos;t do, but you still get sucked into its mechanic of satisfying pre-planning. You&apos;ll also be able to build your own levels using the construction tool.Splat happyAnd then the ridiculous Splatoon – a four-v-four team-based shooter, in which players have to paint as much of the area as possible in their side&apos;s colour before the timer runs out. As well as the messy paint cannon, you also get a mine that splatters enemies and sends your paint gushing all over the blast area, and a bazooka that takes out rival painters from afar.The skill is in using the map on the GamePad screen to get to unpainted areas fast. Hitting the shoulder button in any area that&apos;s been painted allows the player to dip under the surface and zip along unnoticed. If there is paint on the walls, you can use this mechanic to get to higher areas, and there is real strategy involved in covering the most surface area, then defending converted sections.The control method, which allows both the right analogue stick and the motion sensors in the GamePad to control the camera, takes some getting used to and is not perfectly exectured right now, but this is a truly compelling take on the arena battler.All of these titles are coming to Wii U in the next year, all are stupidly adorable yet filled with challenge. Some people get so frustrated with Nintendo for not moving beyond its historic collection of characters and environments, but then, there is something to be said for continually manipulating and experimenting with familiarity. And elsewhere on the stand is Bayonetta 2, which I have yet to play, but which will look and feel very different to these titles.Over the course of two hours on the E3 showfloor, I worked my way through these bright games, with their plump plasticine trees, their bobbing flowers, their bumbling enemies, and unselfconsciously enjoyed every moment. There are more innovative titles on display elsewhere – barely 50 yards away, the Microsoft and Sony stands are fileld with treasures like Ori and the Blind Forest and Hyper Light Drifter – but this is show is about Nintendo doing what Nintendo does: delivering surgical strikes of pleasure.Amid the simulated gunfire and pounding rock music, how thrilling it is to find this oasis; how utterly like Nintendo to face misfortune and doubt, with child-like enthusiasm. As I was playing Kirby, the voice of Mario, Charles Martinet, sloped over and asked what I thought of the game, breaking out into voices from the games, enthusing over the titles he&apos;d played. Sure, Nintendo probably employ him to do this, because his excitement and humour are infectious, and OMG, he&apos;s the voice of Mario! But this is the sort of thing that happens here.Zelda and Starfox alone may not save Wii U, but it looks like there are understudies ready to help buoy up the machine. These games give delight and hurt not. When you stop playing, you awake from the dream, and you want to go back.•Nintendo at E3: Zelda and Star Fox for Wii U a much-need shot in the arm
The most important person in the English-language world is Frank Sinatra, according to an analysis of Wikipedia articles ledby the University of Toulouse&apos;s Young-Ho Eom.Number two is Michael Jackson, and number three is Pope Pius XII.Eom arrived at this somewhat surprising conclusion by using methods borrowed from Google to analyse Wikipedia pages and determine which individuals have the most important articles linking to them.Taking all 24 major language editions of Wikipedia into account, Eom&apos;s team carried out the same study and came to a more plausible conclusion: Adolf Hitler. (Even then, Michael Jackson takes the second slot, and Madonna is in third place.)The point of the study wasn&apos;t strictly to determine who the most important people are on Wikipedia, but instead to discover if the online encyclopaedia was skewed in the level of attention it gives to various figures, either by gender, time, or location.&quot;Our analysis shows that most important historical ﬁgures across Wikipedia language editions are born in western countries after the 17th century, and are male,&quot; the authors write. But, they add, &quot;each Wikipedia edition highlights local figures, so that most of its own historical figures are born in the countries which use the language of the edition. The emergence of such pronounced accent to local figures seems to be natural since there are more links and interactions within one culture.&quot;The study takes as its starting point Google&apos;s PageRank algorithm. This is still the basic method the search engine uses to decide the basic importance of webpages in its index, although the system has received an almost total overhaul since it was first introduced in 1998.PageRank says that a page is important if a lot of important pages link to it. While the definition sounds self-referential, in practice, it recreates a lot of features which we intuitively understand: the more sites link to a newspaper&apos;s website, for instance, the more important that website is; and being linked to from a national newspaper probably says more about a site&apos;s importance than being linked to from a nondescript blog.But when the study applied PageRank to figures on Wikipedia, the results were odd. The most important person in the world comes out as Carl Linnaeus, the 18th-century Swedish naturalist – certainly an important feature in natural history, but possibly not the most important in the world.It seems the algorithm was thrown by a quirk of Wikipedia: the site contains an almost complete collection of named species – as well as who named them. Since Linnaeus&apos; life work was coming up with a system to classify organisms, and applying that system as widely as possible, he is linked to from a lot of pages, and important ones at that. From theDomestic Catto theRed Fox, through the mightyAsian elephantand the lowlymoss gall, Linnaeus named, and is linked from, them all.To get around that issue, the researchers applied a second way of measuring importance: CheiRank. Simply put, &quot;the PageRank… of an article is proportional to the number of incoming links, while the CheiRank… of an article is proportional to the number of outgoing links. Thus a top PageRank article is important since other articles refer to it, while a top CheiRank article is highly connected because it refers to other articles.&quot; In other words, an important person is likely to have a lot of other important people and things involved in their lives.Mix Pagerank and CheiRank together, and you get the final measure: 2DRank. That&apos;s how the authors arrived at the top 100 for all 24 editions of Wikipedia – and how Frank Sinatra took pole position.•Wikipedia&apos;s Jimmy Wales: &apos;It&apos;s true, I&apos;m not a billionaire. So?&apos;
The name of the game in the Civilization series has always been &quot;conquest&quot;. While players build up their burgeoning society through research, farming, road-building and architectural endeavour, the core goal in each of Sid Meier’s great strategy games has been ultimately to subjugate the competition or leave them behind once the dust off to Alpha Centauri has been completed.Sid Meier’s Civilization Beyond Earth doesn’t tinker really with this end goal. What it does do is toss players into an alien environment with a skills and a vastly different set of requirements for survival. They’ll still build units, cities, farms, and roads and conduct research, but the world around them will have a lot more of an immediate effect on how they progress.The environment in Beyond Earth is hostile. Not only is it filled with pockets of &quot;miasma gas&quot;– which peel health of any unit that ends a turn in them – it’s also dotted with alien hives that produce copious amounts of hostile xenomorphs. If the player’s city sits in close proximity to the hive, players will experience waves of attacks until it’s destroyed. This is an alien world – and it doesn’t like you.Oribits and affinitiesThere are two big tweaks to the structure of the traditional Civilization template. The first is the addition of orbital platforms. Players can launch satellites to augment ground operations based on the amount of orbital coverage they have – and this is dictated by the size of their cities. Not only does this provide them with a useful tactical advantage, it also can lead them into conflict with the AI because as their cities grow, their coverage begins to overlap with their neighbours. This will prompt the AI to issue ultimatums and attack because the player is essential taking their aerial turf.Second, political and governmental structures have been replaced with Affinity. This is a philosophical and political aesthetic that not only provides a governmental framework for each race, it also dictates what sort of units and buildings the player can construct.There are three Affinities to choose from: Harmony, Purity and Supremacy. Harmony dictates that human society adapts and becomes a part of the alien world around it. Supremacy adheres to the ideology that humankind should evolve through technology and cybernetic augmentation. Purity does what it says on the tin – it rejects both other Affinity in the interests of maintaining the human state of evolution.Depending on which Affinity players adopt for their society, the structures and units they build will take on a certain visual aesthetic. Supremacy cities will be filled with gleaming pillars of metal and glass, while Harmony structures take on a more organic and otherworldly appearance. Units, too, will copy the look and feel of their surroundings and, over time, will be endowed with abilities unique to each Affinity.At high levels, for example, Harmony civilisations can summon up giant worms and bi-pedal beasts to squash their enemies while Purity societies can construct giant floating towers bristling to the nines with guns.The politics and philosophies contained in Beyond Earth are great new additions from a mechanical and structural standpoint, but more than any game in this series, they strip away the polite veneer of diplomacy. Beyond Earth feels positively Darwinian and that’s fitting in a way; on a hostile alien world, only the strong survive and only the brutal thrive.
3D printers certainly aren&apos;t toys, but one US company is preparing to launch a 3D printer for children calledPrinteer.Mission Street Manufacturing istrying to raise at least $50,000 on crowdfunding site Kickstarterto get the project off the ground, with plans to ship the first units by October this year.The printer will have a companion app for Apple&apos;s iPad, which children will use to create 3D designs that they can then print out. Printeer uses PLA plastic filament for the printing, which the company says is non-toxic.&quot;In a digital age, when technology skills are some of the most important a child can learn, is there a way to bridge the gap between the screen and the physical world?&quot; explains Printeer&apos;s Kickstarter pitch.&quot;Now there is. 3D printing is tailor-made for today&apos;s curious, tech-savvy kids. And that&apos;s why we&apos;ve made Printeer.&quot;Mission Street Manufacturing says it is already working with schools in its native California to test its new device, with hopes of persuading more to buy units when it goes on sale. For now, parents and teachers can pay $549 to secure a device from the first production run.This being Kickstarter, there are also options to pay more: $999 for a Printeer customised with their name and choice of colour; $1,499 for a bundle of three; and $2,999 to travel to the company&apos;s office to build their own model.&quot;We aim to bring 3D printing to kids and schools across the globe. We are also committed to smart, sustainable growth,&quot; explains the company in its pitch.&quot;This is why we plan to make our first production run right here in our garage, where we can maintain a tight feedback loop between engineering and manufacturing. We sleep fifty feet from our production line.&quot;Printeer is the first 3D printer targeted specifically at kids, althoughas 3D printing industry site Inside3DP points out, manufacturer 3D Systems&apos; Cube3 printer has been marketed as a device that&apos;s accessible to children as well as adults.There have been several children&apos;s apps released in recent months that are designed to work with 3D printers, however.Blokifyenables kids to design Minecraft-style objects then print them out, whileMonstermaticdoes the same thing for monster figurines.•30 things being 3D printed right now (and none are guns)
When 10,000 taxi drivers promised to descend on Trafalgar Square to protest against cab hire firm Uber, the companyresponded by launching UberTaxi, extending an olive branch to the angry cabbies (and undercutting competitor Hailo in the process). But even if it succeeds in winning round some drivers, it still has legal issues to contend with: the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association accuses the firm of running illegal taxi meters, thanks to the way its app automatically calculates the fare using GPS data at the end of a trip.Uber&apos;s troubles with the law are not unique to London. In Virginia, US, the firm received cease and desist letters from the state&apos;s department of motor vehicles (DMV) on Thursday.Richard Holcomb, the DMV&apos;s commissioner, instructed Uber and a competitor, Lyft,to halt their &quot;illegal operations&quot; until state law is modified. Currently, Virginia law only allows &quot;ride sharing&quot; when it&apos;s done on a not-for-profit basis. In Boston, a pending lawsuit from cab firms charges Uber with operating an illegal taxi company,the Boston Globe reports. And in New York, the company has been subject to complaint after complaint, overits surge pricing, overrunning unlicensed taxis, andover a pilot programme that aimed to get the app in the city&apos;s iconic yellow taxis.Some of these problems depend on whether you buy Uber&apos;s claim that it isn&apos;t a taxi firm, but a &quot;ride sharing&quot; company, doing little more than connecting drivers with passengers. In the firm&apos;s eyes, it&apos;s the paragon of the &quot;sharing economy&quot;: a world where people with spare rooms, cars, or even power tools share them with others in a way impossible before tech firms arrived to act as matchmakers. And since people who join the sharing economy aren&apos;t technically employees, it&apos;s not the matchmaker&apos;s fault if they don&apos;t follow every regulation to the letter.Sharing; caring?Perhaps as a result, Uber is by no means the only paragon of the sharing economy to face legal pressure. AirBnb, a San Francisco-based startup that lets homeowners rent out spare rooms or whole houses on a short-term basis, has been subject to the same panoply of problems. Again in New York,it&apos;s been accused of enabling the operation of illegal hotels and slum landlords, while in London it has fallen foul of rules that require landlords to apply for planning permission from the council to rent out their homes for less than three months.But AirBnb has played nice with governments, and is in the process of coming to agreements on many of these issues. The secretary of state for communities and local government,Eric Pickles, has saidhe will change the &quot;outdated&quot; rules in London, while New York&apos;s attorney generalhas come to an agreementwith the firm over sharing anonymised data of hosts, allowing the state to flag any that seem to be breaking the law. In Portland, Oregon, the firm&apos;s gone one step further still:under its &quot;shared city&quot; initiative, it will directly collect and remit taxes to the city on behalf of the landlords using it to rent living space.Regulation v disruptionWhile AirBnb has come to some arrangements, the core disagreements between the sharing economy and the industries it claims to be disrupting go deeper. At the heart of it are debates over the nature and necessity of government regulation itself. Are the regulations over who can run a taxi cab in London about protection of vested interests, or are they about ensuring the safety of drivers and passengers? Are rules banning short-term rentals an infringement of private property rights of homeowners, or a protection of the rights of their neighbours? These are not questions that can, or should, be answered by whoever has the most venture capital money behind them.•Taxi drivers to bring London to standstill over Uber app
In Call of Duty Advanced Warfare, war happens for the same reasons it always does: to exert power, to protect and expand territory. To make one’s mark on history. But the ways in which war is waged have changed beyond recognition.Set 45 years into the future, soldiers wear exoskeletons which grant them superhuman strength, allowing them to carry great loads, to take lingering leaps into the air and to clamber up the side of buildings. Smart grenades hover in the air for a few seconds, pick out their targets before they launch toward them with a scream. Soldiers can switch between incendiary, flash and other types of grenade with a squeeze of the thumb. There are laser guns. Not only can soldiers flick a switch and become invisible: kilometre-wide digital canopies mask chemical warehouses from Google satellites’ prying lenses.These visions are, according to Glen Schofield, one of the founders of Sledgehammer Games (the studio tasked with taking the Call of Duty series into the formula-freshening future) based in not in science fiction but reality. “Everything in the game is based on technology that we know will be out there,” he says. “It’s all based on research. The game is grounded in truth.”It is, nevertheless, a speculative realism that is designed to make Call of Duty a more interesting, relevant game in 2014. Activision’s juggernaut series, released in annual instalments, boasts of being the highest grossing entertainment brand across all mediums. There is, however, a challenge for its wealthy custodians: how to maintain interest in a series that is becoming ever more familiar without alienating the gigantic fan-base (around 10 million players log in to play Call of Duty every day, more than six months after the most recent title’s release).Being radicalThe futuristic setting is Sledgehammer’s answer to the problem; the accompanying scope for new technologies in the game brings with it more than just a fresh setting – it changes the way in which participants play the game. This is, according to Schofield, “the most radical change to Call of Duty you’ve ever felt on the controller.”It starts with the exoskeleton (dubbed the &quot;exo&quot; in game) and the raft of new interactions that it brings. There’s the &quot;exo climb&quot;, the &quot;exo push&quot;, the boost jump, magnetic gloves, the ability to hover… all moves that transform Private Mitchell, the game’s protagonist whom players follow from green private across a decade-long storyline to hardened veteran.With the suit Mitchell can pull the doors from cars and use them as impromptu shields. He can cloak himself to blend in with foliage and become invisible to enemy soldiers (but not, crucially, seeker drones, which can see through the electromagnetic fakery). He can push an upturned ice cream van down the street to provide cover for his allies. In Call of Duty the protagonists have always been one-man armies who triumph against overwhelming odds. Here, the subtext is made explicit: you play a superhero.Taking a sledgehammer to Call of DutyThis is the first time that Sledgehammer has taken control of Activision’s flagship series – and the publisher’s investment is clear: the team has had a three year development cycle for what was once intended to be a revitalising reimagining of the series. The senior members of staff at are best known for their work on Dead Space, a Ridley Scott-esque space horror series.Advanced Warfare bears some familial resemblance: there is almost no HUD on screen. Your ammunition count is displayed on the gun itself, removing screen clutter. You’re also awarded points for how you perform in a stage (although these are currently not displayed on screen) and you can allocate these points into upgrading different aspects of you suit – faster running, quicker reloads and so on – allowing for customisation that is entirely new to Call of Duty’s single player campaign. Schofield estimates that players will need to play through the game two and a half times in order to fully upgrade Mitchell’s abilities.There’s a renewed focus on storyline too, as evidenced by Kevin Spacey’s involvement as one of the key characters. This will be, according to Schofield, a story about “life, hope, friendship, pain and loss,” even if it is one that’s told primarily down the scope of a gun.Reality, fantasy and warCall of Duty has never been a series to offer solemn commentary on the nature of war. It is, rather, a reality built for spectacle and play. But as young British jihadists reference the series as they head to Syria to join in the civil war there, the futuristic setting and the fact that the enemy in the game is paramilitary group, rather than a nation state moves Advanced Soldier yet farther away from the perilous present toward something more remote, removed and, at least for the game’s PR teams, less controversial.That spectacle rivals, as ever, the loudest Michael Bay blockbusters (one of the game’s scenes sees your character tear through a dark, abandoned, rain-pitted city while pursued by an attack helicopter; another ends with the grim destruction of the Golden Gate bridge). These scenes still have a certain, fleeting power and effect – even if we are deadened and wearied by the pornographic thrill of spectacular screen violence. But it&apos;s in the hands of players where Advanced Warfare manages to convince of its urgency and relevance. It is very much a game about now.• Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare will be released on PC, Ps3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 4 November 2015• Simon Parkin attended E3 on a press trip with other journalists, in which travel and accommodation costs were met by Activision. For information on the Guardian&apos;s policy covering paid-for trips, please see theeditorial codeorthis article on transparency and trust.
Facebook started life as a website, but in 2014 it is mobile devices driving its growth. Mobile is the dominant influence on pretty much every new feature the social network launches.Even back in October 2012,the chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, was telling analyststhat “today there’s no argument: Facebook is a mobile company”. Fast forward to the end of March 2014, and that company had more than 1 billion active mobile users.“If 2012 was the year we turned our core product into a mobile product, then 2013 was the year when we turned our business into a mobile business,”said Zuckerberg in April. “I expect 2014 will be the year when we begin to deliver new and engaging types of mobile experiences.”What those experiences are is already becoming clear. Here’s a breakdown of how mobile has become Facebook’s firmest friend, and what it means for the future of the world’s biggest social network.1. Mobile usage of Facebook is still growingThat “1 billion monthly active mobile users” stat in the first quarter of 2014 was up 34% compared with the same period in 2013. What’s more, Facebook’s daily active mobile users rose 43% to 609 million in the same period.Of Facebook’s overall daily active users, only 55% access it from their mobiles: that’s around 441 million people. Meanwhile, the separate Instagram and Facebook Messenger apps each have more than 200 million monthly active users, with WhatsApp – bought by Facebook for $19bn earlier this year – already used by 500 million people.This is translating into more money for Facebook through advertising: 59% of its $2.3bn of ad revenues in the first quarter of this year came from mobile, a proportion that stood at 30% in the first quarter of 2013, and just 14% in the third quarter of 2012.When ice-cream brand Ben &amp; Jerry’s ran a Facebook advertising campaign early this year, it reached 14m people – and 90% of them saw the ad on their mobile devices. Mobile growth isn’t just about usage for Facebook, it’s about hard dollars too.2. Facebook is &apos;unbundling the big blue app&apos;Facebook’s big mobile strategy in 2014 is to get people using a range of its apps, not just its main one. Acquisitions like Instagram and WhatsApp are part of that strategy, but so is Messenger, with people currently being forced to install the latter app if they want to continue accessing their Facebook private messages inbox from their smartphones.Also, see the new Facebook apps being built in-house by its Creative Labs division: news-reading app Paper, and the upcoming (and recently “accidentally” launched)Snapchat-style photo and video-sharing app Slingshot.“In mobile there’s a big premium on creating single-purpose first-class experiences. So what we’re doing with Creative Labs is basically unbundling the big blue app,”Zuckerberg told the New York Timesin April.Facebook’s strategy for these new apps is to launch them, add and remove features based on early feedback, then try to get them up to 100m active users each before starting to make money from them.“We want to provide the best tools to share with different size, groups and in different contexts, and to develop more mobile experiences beyond just the main Facebook app, like Instagram and Messenger,”Zuckerberg told analysts in February.3. It isn’t afraid to splash the cash on external appsFacebook isn’t just building new apps: it’s willing to buy them too.Paying $1bn for Instagram in April 2012raised a few eyebrows, but it was eclipsed by the$19bn for WhatsApp in February 2014– with those deals sandwiching arejected $3bn bid for Snapchat in 2013.Fitness-tracking app Moves was snapped upfor an undisclosed (i.e. not in the billions) amount in April this year, but there has also been a steady stream of acquisitions of mobile startups: Beluga, Snaptu, Push Pop Press, Gowalla, Spool, Parse, Jibbigo, Onavo and more.Often, the aim is to bag a talented team of developers and/or some innovative technology: the actual apps are usually shut down, although they live on within Facebook’s own products.Facebook's premium video ads.4. Coming to your mobile: more Facebook ad formatsFacebook is making more money from mobile advertising because it’s showing more ads in your mobile news feed – and charging advertisers more for the fine-tuned targeting based on its massive stash of user data.It’s also experimenting with new formats though. “Premium Video Ads” were tested from December 2013, thenlaunched properly in March 2014: 15-second clips that automatically play (silently) as you scroll past them, but then expand to full-screen with sound when tapped on.Instagram launched its own in-stream ads in the US in October 2013, and has just announced that they’reexpanding to the UK, Canada and Australia. But nowFacebook is also launching something called Audience Network– its own network of mobile ads inside other companies’ apps, using its own targeting.In other words, even if you&apos;re not using Facebook&apos;s own apps, you may still be seeing its ads elsewhere.5. The delicate balancing act between ads and updatesAs Facebook shows more ads in your news feed, does that mean you’re seeing less updates from the friends and pages you care about? It’s a hot-potato issue that rightfully sparks a lot of debate.Facebook argues that if it gets mobile advertising right, the ads you see will be for things you care about too. It has also argued that its news feed algorithm is firmly focused on relevancy:plucking out 300-odd stories a day for you to see, from a potential 1,500.Which 300 you see depends on factors including how often you interact with their creators; how much those posts have already been liked, shared and commented on by your friends and the wider world; how much you&apos;ve shown an interest in those kinds of post in the past; and whether people are hiding or reporting them.Marketing folk have been complaining vociferously in recent months about declining “organic page reach” – the number of people who’ve liked their page that see a particular update – while Facebook argues that the reason is relevancy, not advertising.“We&apos;ve gotten better at showing high-quality content, and we&apos;ve cleaned up News Feed spam,”claimed Facebook recently. But as its advertising business continues to grow, questions about the respective priority of ads, status updates and page posts will continue to fly.6. Facebook is changing the way you use it to sign in to other appsYou’ve been able to sign in to other apps and digital services with your Facebook details for a long time now, thanks to its Facebook Connect technology. At the company’s recent f8 developer conference, it announced plans to add anonymity to the idea.You’ll soon be able to log in to other apps using your Facebook account without sharing your details with the app’s maker, from Spotify to social game developers. The theory is that you can try out the apps without giving them your personal data, before (if you want) later tweaking the settings to share more.Anonymous login is currently being tested with “a few developers” and sounds like a step forward for Facebook and privacy. Butquestions quickly emerged around just how anonymous it really is: Spotify might not know who you are if you use anonymous login, but Facebook still knows that you’re using Spotify.Facebook's new TV, music and movies identification feature.7. Facebook wants to know what you’re listening to and watchingAnother new feature coming to Facebook’s main app was described in late May as“a new, optional way to share and discover music, TV and movies”. Essentially it’s the equivalent of the Shazam app: technology that listens to what you&apos;re watching or listening to, and tries to identify it.Facebook says this will be used purely as another tag for your status updates – “if you want to share that you’re listening to your favourite Beyoncé track or watching the season premiere of Game of Thrones, you can do it quickly and easily, without typing” – much like checking in to a location or tagging a friend.The news sparked concern in some quarters that Facebook’s app will always be listening in on your media habits – interestingly, more concern than when Shazam launched exactly that in the form of itsAuto Shazamfeature.Facebook says it won’t be following suit. “The microphone doesn&apos;t turn itself on, it will ask for permission,”Facebook’s Gregg Stefancik told Australian journalistsin May. “It&apos;s not always listening... so it&apos;s very limited in what it is sampling.” Sceptics will be watching carefully for any change in that policy at a later date.8. Whatever happened to the ‘Facebook Phone’?In 2012, there was a flurry of rumours about Facebook launching its own smartphone. “Zuckerberg is worried that if he does not create a mobile phone soon Facebook will simply become an app on other mobile platforms,”as The Guardian reported it at the time.That didn’t happen, but in April 2013Facebook launched an Android app called Facebook Home, which took over the homescreen with Facebook features. &quot;We&apos;re not building a phone,&quot; said Zuckerberg. &quot;We&apos;re not building an operating system. We&apos;re building something that&apos;s a whole lot deeper.&quot;It flopped, as did the HTC First smartphone that launched as a flagship for the new app.Home took almost a month to hit a million downloadson Android’s Google Play store, with a blizzard of negative reviews from initial users.“We’re patient; we’re prepared to give it time. We’re believers in Home; we believe it’s going to be valuable for users,”maintained Facebook engineering director Jocelyn Goldfeinin February 2014.ButZuckerberg admitted in Aprilthat Home was “riskier” than Facebook’s other apps: “Home is your lock screen. When you install it, it’s really active, and if it does anything that you don’t like, then you’ll uninstall it,” he said.Facebook’s strategy now appears to be less about trying to take over homescreens, and more about helping apps link more easily to one another. In April, it unveiled something calledAppLinksto do exactly that, with support from the likes of Spotify, Pinterest, Mailbox, Tumblr and Flickr.9. Facebook sees mobile as the key to emerging marketsIt’s often tempting to see Facebook’s future prospects as defined by how westerners use the social network: for example, the debate about whether teenagers are fleeing Facebook for Snapchat. Actually, the company sees its future as defined just as much by the developing world.Hence Internet.org, Facebook’s initiative to spread reliable internet access (and thus access to Facebook and its apps) to countries where connectivity hasn’t been taken for granted. Zuckerberg’s mission is to make “basic” mobile data access free.&quot;Text-based communication services, whether it&apos;s things like social networks or messaging or email or search, whether stock prices – basic stuff like that, that people will use on a day-to-day basis, but don&apos;t require huge amount of data,&quot;he said at the Mobile World Congress conferenceearlier this year.Early partnerships with mobile operators in the Philippines and Paraguay have apparently helped 3m people get online who weren&apos;t already, but Facebook has even grander ambitions that sound like science fiction...10. Don’t forget about the drones and lasersAs chirpy openings to a Facebook status update go, it’s hard to beatZuckerberg’s from March 2014. “In our effort to connect the whole world with Internet.org, we&apos;ve been working on ways to beam internet to people from the sky,” he wrote.&quot;Today, we&apos;re sharing some details of the work Facebook&apos;s Connectivity Lab is doing to build drones, satellites and lasers to deliver the internet to everyone.&quot; Mobile devices will be the main recipients of that beamed-down internet, and WhatsApp is expected to be one of the key apps making use of it.That’s why knee-jerk analysis of Facebook’s mobile strategy is rarely a good idea. Yes, you could see that $19bn for WhatsApp as a panicked response to an app capable of stealing young users away from Facebook in the west.But what if it’s more a big bet on what people of all ages might want to use elsewhere in the world – as an alternative to the text messaging traditionally offered by the very same operators who are striking zero-data partnerships with Facebook in the developing world?If nothing else, Facebook&apos;s mobile strategy is about the long game, although whether it will be successful is a question that will have to wait a few years.•What do Facebook users need to know about the F8 conference?
London's licensed taxi service has a history going back several hundred years. Its drivers are trained professionals who take great pride in their work. We drive iconic vehicles around a magnificent city and are able in the process to earn a respectable living for ourselves and our families that we put back into the local economy – no fat cat sits at the top skimming profits away to foreign bank accounts. This is something that London does well, and we should be proud of it. We are demonstrating today because we are concerned that all of this is under threat.You may have read aboutUber, the Google and Goldman Sachs-financed smartphone app, which is now "connecting riders to drivers" in London – in other words, providing a minicab service. Uber is not the only reason we are gathering in central London today, but it does exemplify the problem. And that problem isn't competition. We accept competition – and indeed have accepted it from minicab firms for years – but expect our competitors to play by the rules. The issue is that the taxi trade feels its regulator, Transport for London (TfL), is not looking out for our interests or enforcing its own regulations as it should.Our contention is that TfL is nervous of taking on the multinational big guns at Uber with their hotshot lawyers and PR teams, and that consequently they are being allowed to offer what amounts to a taxi service in London without going through any of the regulatory hoops – drivers studyingthe Knowledge of London, stringent conditions of fitness and licensing – that we cabbies take for granted.Uber "riders" book their trips by pressing a button on a smartphone app, and the fare is calculated using the driver's taxi-meter app. We think this is contrary to TfL's own regulations, which state that only we can use a meter, but that's been sidestepped on the technicality that, being an app, the Uber meter is not "fitted" to the vehicle as it is in a hackney cab. Because the regulations use the word "fitted", TfL say Uber are within the law. Nor do Uber have the booking office or telephone intermediary to arrange their jobs that regulations require of private hire firms, so that Uber drivers are to all intents and purposes arranging their jobs themselves, from the street, as taxi drivers do, but from which minicab drivers are prohibited. We would also question whether in the event of an accident an insurance company would be likely to pay out, concluding, like us, that the vehicle was operating outside of the regulatory framework.It's possibly the first time in history that the black cab trade and the established minicab firms have found an issue they agree on. In fact taxi drivers agree with us all over the world – there have been protests and legal action from Berlin to New York and the company has been barred from operating in several cities.But Uber is just the latest and highest profile issue on which the trade feels TfL isn't giving it fair representation. Others include a continued inability to define and secure our right to ply for hire on the street, ongoing prevarication on the licensing of pedicabs, inadequate provision of ranks, unnecessary phasing out of older vehicles in the unproven name of better air quality, and being treated as second-class members of the transport infrastructure in London.I will be there today with the Rail, Maritime and Transport union because I believe it is important for our traditional industry, made up of thousands of hard-working sole traders, to stand up in the face of aggressive tacticsfrom multimillion dollar multinationals.I am proud to drive a London taxi and want us to remain an integrated part of London's transport system for many years to come. I hope that the problems we face can be overcome, and that TfL will work constructively with the trade – and vice-versa – to continue to provide London with the best taxi service in the world.
After a year of falling console sales and revenue losses, Nintendo may have just pulled itself from the brink of disaster. In a pre-E3 event, streamed across the web, it announced a new Legend of Zelda title, which will arrive in 2015. This was the news its fans wanted and its console – the struggling Wii U – desperately needed.Press responses have already been overwhelmingly positive. It looks rather beautiful. Nintendo explained that the game, which was hinted at way back at E3 2011, will take an open-world approach, across a huge game world. Producer Eiji Aonuma explained that when the series moved from 2D visuals to 3D polygons, the landscapes had to become more linear due to technical constraints – this is why 2003 instalment, Wind Waker, was set on a series of islands that could be loaded individually into memory. But the new Wii U Legend of Zelda will be totally open and expansive.In terms of art-style, it had a touch of cel-shading, although a slightly more grown-up, less cartoonish feel than, for example, Wind Waker. Series protagonist Link looks to be slightly older, perhaps even teenage, and in the trailer, we see him on horseback, galloping through an intricately realised landscape.After the success of Mario Kart 8 and the promise of the forthcoming Super Smash Bros, this is what Nintendo needed to turn around its rather miserable year.Continuing to push the buttons of legacy fans, the company also has legendary game designer and Mario creator Shigeru Miyamato working on a new title in the legendary Star Fox series. Miyamoto himself introduced the project at an invite-only event on Sunday evening.There were also announcements of other additions and spin-offs to a variety of key Nintendo classics.President and CEO Satoru Iwata was forbidden from travelling to Los Angeles for E3 on doctor’s orders. But at least on the Tuesday of the huge video game exhibition – when it properly gets into its stride – Nintendo will get some much-needed love from the gaming public, as it opens its stand on the show floor. It seems that all is not yet lost as far as the old stager of the games industry is concerned.For now, here are the other key points from Nintendo&apos;s news announcements:Miyamoto has been working on Star FoxMario creator Shigeru Miyamoto getting hands on with the new Star FoxIn a special event on Sunday, Miyamoto-san revealed that he had turned his not inconsiderable design talents to another classic Nintendo franchises: Star Fox.Miyamoto’s theme for the event was concentrating on gameplay that could be derived from the unique nature of the Wii U’s GamePad – which has been worryingly absent from many of the console&apos;s games so far. He explained that: “On the TV, the view is similar to the traditional Star Fox view. But on the GamePad, you get a cockpit view, and you can aim anywhere using the motion controls.” Star Fox is, as ever, a flying-and-shooting game, and Miyamoto’s system worked beautifully when we tried it.The Star Fox demo showed a game in its very early stages, albeit with plenty of original and fun gameplay – intriguingly, Miyamoto admitted that, having defined the core gameplay, he may enlist an outsider developer in a bid to get the game finished in a year’s time or thereabouts.There were three different modes. The first, called Arwing, is classic Star Fox, and consists of an open-sky dogfight against many enemies; you can also land and transform into a tank. The second mode, Vs Wolf, is similar, but pits players against series rival Wolf O&apos;Donnell, flying a similar ship to yours. The third, called City, put you in a helicopter flying over an urban landscape, with the GamePad screen showing a top-down view of what&apos;s below.Miyamoto also showed two mini-games. The first, Giant Robot, being a sumo-like affair, in which players control the eponymous giant robot in a very odd manner – the motion-controls move his torso, the joysticks move his arms, and the player moves forwards or backwards using the triggers. The second game, called Project Guard, is an absolute riot. You are placed in charge of security for a building containing a maze, under assault from various types of robots. Your defences are a bank of security cameras armed with lasers that you aim using the GamePad’s motion controls – switching between cameras is vital, and it helps to have an audience telling you which camera to switch to.Intriguingly, both mini-games were linked to the main Star Fox game, and it became obvious that they will form elements of it (an impression reinforced by cryptic comments from Miyamoto). If all the various elements are tied together coherently, Nintendo will have a truly distinctive game that really does make maximum use of the Wii U’s unique capabilities. Fans will hope Miyamoto can get it built as quickly as he suggests.Amiibo: taking on Skylanders and InfinityThe Guardian was also invited to another event before E3 – a preview of Nintendo’s answer to Skylanders and Disney Infinity called Amiibo. This is a series of cute action figures which can be connected to forthcoming games, interacting with the onscreen activities. The first title to support the range will be Super Smash Brothers – but compatibility will also be retrofitted into Mario Kart 8. The Amiibo characters we saw included Mario, Samus, Donkey Kong, Pikachu, Peach, Kirby and Yoshi, plus a few unexpected additions such as the Wii Fit Trainer and a Villager from Animal Crossing.You activate Amiibo by touching them on the Wii U’s GamePad, and in Super Smash Bros, they imported the characters they represented into the game – Nintendo explained that you could play with them, or use them as co-operative characters or sparring partners.Amiibo characters in Super Smash Bros will be more powerful than the norm, and they support two-way communications, so that they can be upgraded or levelled up, with that data residing in the Amiibo itself. Turning the glorious canon of Nintendo characters into playable toys is an obvious concept, and long-overdue, but plenty of question marks remain. For example, we don’t know how they will be introduced to Mario Kart 8, nor whether they will receive their own dedicated game.Super Smash Bros: the next big gun for the Wii USuper Smash Bros, like Mario Kart 8, is a massively important game for the Wii U which should drive sales among veteran fans – although, alone, its debateable whether the popular multiplayer brawling game can lift the Wii U’s installed base far beyond its currently pitiful level – even with the added element of Amiibo support. But it looks vibrant and has all the frenzied single-player and online gameplay which fans of the franchise prize.Ultimately, the 3DS version of the game could prove more significant in sales terms – it marks the first occasion in which Super Smash Bros has successfully made the leap to a handheld console, and Nintendo has lavished plenty of attention upon it, including a new mode called Smash Run which adds appeal to those who aren’t hardcore beat-em-up aficionados. Smash Run is a timed game which puts you in a platform game-like environment, studded with opponents, which give up attribute-enhancing power-ups when you defeat them.We had a play-through and at the end of the session, even the lumbering Donkey Kong was jumping refreshingly huge distances and moving quickly, thanks to those augmentations.Plenty of compelling new Wii U games in the worksBeyond Super Smash Bros, Nintendo showed a number of impressive-looking new Wii U games, many of which are scheduled for 2015, although if enough them arrive in time for Christmas, Nintendo could end the year on something approaching a high.Yoshi’s Woolly World, in particular, was very appealing: it’s a Yoshi game, but in the tactile, homespun vein of Kirby’s Epic Yarn. This time around, Yoshi is three-dimensional and can unravel himself (and his surroundings) to get to otherwise inaccessible platform-style areas.Familiar Nintendo character Captain Toad is also getting a starring vehicle of his own called Treasure Tracker, which resembles an expanded version of the popular Captain Toad levels from Super Mario 3D World.It also turns out that Zelda fans will get a fix this year, but in an unusual setting: Hyrule Warriors is a collaboration between Nintendo and Tecmo Koei, in which the world of Zelda meets the gameplay of Dynasty Warriors.Nintendo also revealed that Bayonetta 2, the sequel to the cult favourite brawler, will come with a free copy of the original game.Splatoon was another stand-out title for the Wii U which proves that the console’s unique attributes can be harnessed to generate innovative gameplay. It’s an 8-player online game, pitting two teams of four against each other; players move around arenas, painting them in coloured ink sprayed from water-pistols, and can transform into squid to swim through their colour of ink. The team with the most territory at the end of each round wins. Splatoon, created by Hironobu Sakaguchi and something of a dream-team under Miyamoto’s wing, was exhilarating to play, and felt quite unlike any other game – which has always been the point behind the Wii U.So Nintendo&apos;s current console is finally generating a solid games portfolio, that should appease fans and advertise the unique properties of the hardware. The question remains – is it too little, too late? And can Nintendo get its message across? The company’s future could depend on it doing just that.
As a city, Los Angeles was built to look forward. During the 1950s its architecture took on a futuristic sheen, all swooping rocket ship angles, like a giant piece of concept art from The Jetsons. Now the buildings have a quaint nostalgic look – they are relics, and that is what a lot of people have come to desire. The future is kind of hard to face these days. Looking back is so much easier.It&apos;s fitting then that this is where E3, the biggest show in video gaming should live. Because right now, the games industry is looking backwards too. Although both Sony and Microsoft have launched shiny new consoles, that are selling well and doing okay, there is a lack of self-confidence about the way games are going. The traditional industry, with its multimillion dollar budgets and boxed games made by hundreds of people is in a quiet crisis. What do people want? These guys aren&apos;t sure anymore.Witness Sony&apos;s pre-E3 press conference on Monday night. There were a few original announcements – a gothic chiller from Dark Souls director Hidetaka Miyazaki, entitled Bloodborne; a gruesome horror romp from Suda 51 and Grasshopper Manufacture; something fresh and beautiful from the art director of Journey in the form of undersea odyssey, Abzu. But the revelations that got everyone cheering were the ones that looked back.Grim Fandango, a cult PC adventure from the 1990s is returning, courtesy of its much-loved creator, Tim Schafer. The game, a joyous, clever and eccentric take on various afterlife myths, follows spiritual travel agent Manny Calavera whose job is to guide souls through the Land of the Dead. It is funny and eccentric, and it always threatened to come back. Many veteran gamers, who idolise Schafer and his colleagues at the old LucasArts development studio, are utterly overjoyed that it is happening. And that&apos;s great, really it is.But Sony also leaned heavily on the announcement that Grand Theft Auto V is being remastered for next-gen consoles and the PC, and that the streaming games service PlayStation Now is to get hundreds of PS3 titles, as well as older classics from the PS1 and PS2 eras. Familiar, proven titles being repackaged and re-sold.Something old, something borrowed…At the Microsoft conference earlier in the day, some of the biggest cheers were for nostalgic rediscoveries – the Xbox title Phantom Dust is coming to Xbox One. Crackdown, the open-world adventure from 2007 is to get a reboot, with original designer Dave Jones (responsible for Lemmings and Grand Theft Auto) at the helm.This is natural in a way. Games look back as well as forward, constantly re-purposing established genres and ideas for a new generation. Much of what we call innovation in the mainstream industry today is about combining familiar genres. The giant space opera Destiny, for example, which is on course to be the most expensive game ever made ($500m and counting), is essentially Bungie&apos;s Halo mixed with Gearbox&apos;s RPG-flavoured shooter, Borderlands. Meanwhile, long-running series&apos; and sequels totally dominate the development landscape for what&apos;s left of the Triple A studios. Tomb Raider, Grand Theft Auto, Uncharted, Far Cry, Assassin&apos;s Creed… these titles dominated the chatter from the press conference day at E3 2014. They have been there for years.There is a wider malaise, perhaps. As William Goldman famously said about the movie business, nobody knows anything. And in an era of $100m game development budgets, not knowing anything is a super expensive and destructive way to exist. Add in the fact that smartphone games have ripped the established norms apart, introducing new business models and diluting the user-base, and you have the most challenging era since the great gaming crash of 1983.Games publishers aren&apos;t sure what people want; they don&apos;t know who gamers are anymore. They have never been so unsure. Sequels were always the safe route, but now they have been codified into a factory-like production rota. Big publishers like Activision and EA rotate development teams on mega franchises like Call of Duty and Battlefield to ensure regular iteration. And Ubisoft mass-produces game mechanics across its range, so that Far Cry, Watch Dogs and Assassin&apos;s Creed share identical methods of progression and environmental unlocking. What the traditionalists have learned from the mobile industry is that iteration works – iteration is good. Try something and if it works, reproduce endlessly, if it doesn&apos;t, kill it. Kill it right now.Video games and nostalgiaE3 is all about nostalgia really. The industry it represents - with boxed games and big old publishers – is a relic of another era. EA gets much of its revenue from selling digital goods and downloadable content now – games are actually adverts for the content to follow. A big announcement at Sony&apos;s press conference was that the PlayStation 4 would be able to easily handle free-to-play games and that dozens are already in development. You could almost see the tumbleweed blowing across the stage. Core gamers don&apos;t want to hear that. Core gamers, weirdly, cry for innovation then cheer loudest for old stuff they recognise. You know, when games were games and you paid once and they were yours forever.As Philip Larkin once put it: &quot;Never such innocence again&quot;. Grim Fandango speaks to us about another era in which clever people made games they wanted to make in small teams and they were funny and challenging, and you had to be good at them. Big games don&apos;t want you to master them anymore. They&apos;re desperate for your affection. They look at Candy Crush Saga and think, oh right, people want us to do the game for them now? Remember when Uncharted started to solve the puzzles for you if you struggled over them long enough? That&apos;s the future, guys, that&apos;s probably the future.The industry is well into its digital age, but it hasn&apos;t worked out how to sell that vision. All the talk of cloud-based server infrastructures and seamless campaign multiplayer and second screen enetrtainment aren&apos;t chiming with anyone. The Wii U has tanked because a lot of people just don&apos;t get it. Just don&apos;t get why you need a personal screen - even though later that day they&apos;ll sit watching TV with a tablet on their lap. No games company has worked out how to communicate that three-way relationship yet.It is no wonder Sony and Microsoft are crawling over each other to sign the indies. No wonder they&apos;re looking at the procedurally generated space game No Man&apos;s Sky and Capy Games&apos; adventure Below with awe and wonder. These are innovations they understand - they&apos;re not about business models, they&apos;re not about new audiences who are hard to predict, they&apos;re about new ideas within the scope of traditional games. Indie developers are nostalgic but they have the freedom to take the mechanics forward and play with them, just as Tim schafer played with the idea of point-and-click adventures in the 1990s.The industry of fearAll around the industry there is fear and loathing, simmering beneath the forced smiles of corporate optimism. Microsoft mis-read its core audience so badly last year it almost killed Xbox One before it was born – those guys are terrified.New stuff will come, but it&apos;s almost like the industry has to rediscover itself through its past, a sort of purging reconnection with a time when everyone knew what they wanted – clever, challenging games that took you days of work to master.Outside the E3 convention centre, the crumbling freeways buzz with life, carrying people though this city of lost dreams and curtailed ambitions. Los Angeles is the perfect place for the traditional games industry – a city built on a future that once seemed so appealing, so exciting, so tangible. People felt they could reach out and touch it. But the future isn&apos;t like that. It doesn&apos;t look like the Jetsons. It is a vast shadow looming over everything. And it has never seemed so hard to grasp.•The titles that defined Fahrenheit&apos;s genre
