Google has an 80% satisfation rating in the latest American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI). Dell Computer remained top in the personal computer category, but its rating dropped and its lead narrowed. CNet's report (here) highlight's AOL's poor score as a portal.
Palm Inc has admited that its m130 handhelddoesn't display all the colours it claimed. The discrepancy became obvious when compared with a Handspring that did. "We want our customers to know we made this honest mistake," Palm's Marlene Somsak told Wired News. "We truly believed the m130 offered 65,000 color combinations. We want to offer an apology." What remains odd is that Wired neglected to mention thatit has happened before. For example, in 2000, Hewlett-Packard launched a Jornada handheld with a 16-bit colour screen that ended up displaying 12.
Sony has decided to launch its online games service in the US onAugust 27, a couple of months before Microsoft's already-announced launch of Xbox Live. PS2 owners will have to buy a modem or network adaptor.
"A small group of PC owners has quietly filed a class action lawsuit against Intel, Gateway, and Hewlett-Packard alleging the companiesmisled them into believing the Pentium 4 was a superior processorto Intel's own Pentium III and AMD's Athlon," reports PCWorld.com. It sounds as though they have been reading too many of those "megahertz myth" articles promoted by suppliers with slower processors. It's true but trivial to say you can design a processor to do more work per clock cycle. If you have a slow 666MHz chip that may be very important. But if you are designing something that will go at 4GHz, it's silly to apply the same criteria. And whatever computer scientists might say, in a market where clock cycles sell like hot cakes, it looks like commercial stupidity, too.
Datamonitor analyst Nick Greenway thinks it's time for network operators toabandon plans for 3G(third generation) mobile phone services. Not everyone agrees....
American journalist Steve Outing recently wrote a colunm in Editor &amp; Publisher arguing that newspapers shouldgive every journalist a Weblog-- an idea that is far too obvious and sensible for any newspaper to do it this year, but it will happen eventually. He's now written a follow-up piece onWeblogs for publishers, which provides a good account of the different types of blog.
Ray Ozzie, creator of Lotus Networks and founder of Groove Networks, points out that "your daily online communication activity -- from sending and receiving e-mail and instant messages to using the Web -- can be, and in all likelihood are, trivially monitored by others." You don't have to read CNet's version: Ozzie, a newcomer to blogging, has posted ithere.
In the US, Gateway has produced another model in its Profile range ofspace-saving one-piece PCs, and inevitably ZDNet News compares it to the moe expensive LampMac, though Gateway was selling LCD-based Profiles long before Apple launched its version.However, it is tough to sell unexpandable systems to PC users who have a huge range of alternatives. Dell and Compaq were among the PC suppliers thatabandoned similar stylish designsa couple of years ago.
Dell Computerturned in impressive financial results last week. In its latest financial quarter, it increased sales by 11% to $8.46 billion, and posted a profit of $501 million. AP reports founder Michael Dell saying that the worst business conditions were during the third quarter in 2001. "It's been heading north...That was the bottom." There have also been some silly stories about Dell shipping systems to large corporate users without copies of Microsoft Windows, from September 1. As theCNetversion belatedly makes clear, these cost the same as PCs shipped with Windows, so it would be silly to buy them if you wanted to save money by installing a rival operating system. Corporate buyers like them because it makes it easy to install Windows by copying a disk image of their standard set-up. Dell has already tried selling PCs withLinux pre-installed(at extra cost), butwithdrew from that market, basically because the volumes were very low and support costs made it unprofitable.
Vietnam's communist government is proposing severe penalties for  internet cafe owners who allow customers to visit anti-government or pornographic websites, officials and state-controlled media said today.Internet cafe owners will also need to obtain special licenses requiring checks into their personal history, they said.The proposals by the ministry of culture and information follow a three-week inspection of internet cafes in the country's 61 cities and provinces.The inspections found that most customers in the estimated 4,000 internet cafes are students between the ages of 14 and 24, a ministry inspector said. About 70% use the internet for chatting, 10% for games and 10% for email, he said. Only 10% surf websites, with half accessing sites with anti-government or pornographic content, he said.The government and the ruling communist party, concerned by the increasing numbers of Vietnamese who have access to news from
outside sources, have attempted in recent months to tighten control over information.The inspections found that most internet cafe owners have little knowledge of government regulations governing internet use and do not control their customers' activities online, today's Lao Dong (Labour) newspaper quoted Phan An Sa, the ministry's deputy chief inspector, as saying.Mr Sa said the government should assign specific tasks to state agencies and cafe owners to prevent access to "poisonous and harmful" information.State-owned Vietnam Data Communications, currently Vietnam's only internet gateway, should block as much anti-government information as possible, while the ministry of public security should provide it with updated lists of websites containing such information, he added.Mr Sa said owners of internet cafes would be severely punished if they allowed customers to visit anti-government or pornographic sites. He did not elaborate.Many Vietnamese, including those overseas, use the internet to share information and opinions about the government and political
system. Earlier this month, the ministry shut down a popular website, TTVNOnline.com, for carrying information critical of the government.In February, computer science lecturer Le Chi Quang was arrested for writing an essay criticising concessions made by Vietnam in a border agreement with China and posting it on the internet. Mr Quang will be tried on charges of violating national security, foreign ministry spokeswoman Phan Thuy Thanh said yesterday.Vietnam's constitution provides for freedom of speech and the press, but in practice both are significantly restricted. All media are controlled by the government.
It's fun watching Sun Microsystems -- which has been rubbishing GNU/Linux for years -- trying to put its motormouths into reverse gear and explain how it really really loves Linux (as long as it doesn't replace a Sun Solaris version of Unix running on a Sun server with a Sun Sparc processor). But it seems co-founder Bill Joy has not yet had the required rah rah brain transplant, and has doubts about"the open source business model", always assuming there is one. Still, it is impossible not to feel sorry for Joy: he not only has to watch a technically inferior Unix clone (ie Linux) storm past themuch more stable and reliable BSD versionto which he contributed so much, his company is now helping it. "Linux is moving faster than BSD at this point," says Joy. The Berkeley version "doesn't have the strength of community that Linux does." This is true, of course, but it was also completely obvious at least five years ago.
Bruce Perens, the free software guru who wrote theOpen Source Definition(with a little outside help), may be leaving Hewlett-Packard "in order to become more politically active", reportsInfoworld.
Broad beansI read Steve Bowbrick's article (Second sight, August 8) with interest. As chair of the UK Digital Content Forum, you would assume I'd disagree with what he had to say. In fact, I think he's got a point. The key challenge facing the digital content sector in the UK is to find ways of adapting their skills and businesses to have a home in the broadband future.  Content is probably the wrong word for what we now do - in a more interactive world, the focus should be less on what distributors of content provide and more on what users do with it. Content creators need to be more aware of engaging consumers in ways that make the most of what the technologies offer.Anthony LilleyUK Digital Content Forumanthony@magiclantern.co.ukI am an NTL customer. I don't pay for broadband. Instead I pay &#163;6 a month for an always-on 64K cable connection as part of a phone-TV-modem package. Apart from two server outages in 18    months, it's always been there. I check my email several times a day, my children play on Cbeebies when they want and I go to Yell.co.uk in preference to the nearby Yellow Pages. No more high phone bills. No more annoying wait for my dial-up modem to do the bleepity-bleep thing. This is NTL's best kept secret.David Carrdavid@tarkadhal.freeserve.co.ukIt is blinkered to claim, as Steve Bowbrick does, that users have put the characteristics of broadband "in the wrong order of importance". Speed and accessibility are irrelevant if good quality content is not available in the first place. By failing to produce content, we are not maximising broadband's huge potential. Bowbrick rightly notes the satisfaction of getting your results immediately when you pull the broadband trigger. But you gain more from this speed when you have great content, such as a film or game. That's the key to driving broadband subscription levels: content. Let's be honest: the first question is always "what can I get?" not "how quickly can I get it?"Sandip SardaChairman, the Broadband Content Coalitionsandip.sarda@assethouse.comJabberI was very pleased to read your coverage of Jabber (Chat    to the future, August 8). Since March, I and a growing number from the Learning and Teaching Support Network have been using the Jabber platform to communicate.  We experimented with AOL Instant Messenger, but found its features were limited, less easily extensible and AIM was reluctant to use an external provider for internal communications.To overcome these issues, a colleague configured a pilot Jabber server to cater to the needs of the network, and the higher education community as a whole. This server will shortly go live at jabber.ltsn.ac.uk.Tom HeathUniversity of Liverpoolt.heath@liv.ac.ukMac ladsRichard Jenkins's letter (Feedback, August 8) will trigger off the usual flurry of responses from all sides of the platform argument. Many readers have identified Microsoft bias over the years. But rather than having another flame war, perhaps the Guardian could obtain reader statistics for Online. If there are a lot of Mac-using readers out there (and I suspect there are) this could perhaps be reflected editorially.Nigel Cursonn.curson@uea.ac.ukApple pieI am intrigued by the Richard Jenkins's letter. Surely he has answered the question    regarding the "bias". "It's not just pretty design but reliable and  efficient software as well." Hence no need to Ask Jack questions for us Mac users.Jess Jethwajess@mission-communications.netWorking lunchIf Luke O'Sullivan (Feedback, August 8) is so contemptuous of Alex Barley for expecting too much of Microsoft, ask him who pays for his fast SuperJanet email. Could it be me (as a taxpayer)?David Perrydavid_perry1uk@yahoo.co.ukHotmauledSome readers are under the illusion that Hotmail is a free service and that users have no right to complain about its service (Feedback, August 8). Do they feel the same about ITV which, like Hotmail, is funded by advertising? The alternative is not necessarily to pay &#163;120 per year. I pay &#163;25 pa (+VAT) to register and host my own domain name with email, webmail, web space and dial-up access at http://domains.cali.co.uk.Roger Houghtonmail@rogerhoughton.comAll fired upIt's a pleasure to turn to Feedback. Alex Barley's Hotmail debacle opened up the usual oneupmanship sneer fest from geek city. It got me musing as to how innocents are treated by the anointed ones. This is how it usually goes: schmuck writes in with problem/observation. This is met with derision from dandruff central and tech-heads fire off their hysterical email. Apple Macs, eh? Totally overrated, man!! Gentlemen, start your engines.Dave Dooleydavedooley@lineone.net
CT Special ForcesGame Boy Advance 	&#163;29.99  LSP 	***Until recently, Game Boy Advance owners have had options. They could either employ a team of highly skilled operatives, trained to ensure optimum lighting conditions, or squint painfully at the inadequately lit screen, hoping that the rotund character shown was Mario and not the snoring commuter    opposite. Thankfully, Portablegamer.co.uk has shown the way with a marvellous built-in lighting system that even allows you to play in   a darkened room. This is just in time for some late summer releases, one of which is CT Special Forces.This counter-terrorism blaster is a game like they used to make 'em - minimal lives, maximum frustration and intermittent satisfaction. Be in no doubt: this is a very tricky challenge, with plenty of precise jumping and blasting required if the world is going to breathe easier again.Younger gamers will be surprised that you can only save your progress every three levels; die at the end of the third level and you're back to the first again. If you can cope with this, then the straightforward action - reminiscent of   classic retro title Metal Slug - should appeal. At least your aim is simple - reach the left end of the side-scrolling terrain, destroying anything that gets in your way.There's a lot to be said for completing a treacherous leap while blasting at enemy soldiers and this is certainly a good-looking title. Snowy mountains and barren deserts are nicely drawn, as are the hero and his assailants. Airborne combat, sniping and parachuting sections add variety and, if you can take the pace, CT Special Forces comes recommended. Especially now that you can see exactly what you're doing. (GH)Aggressive InlinePS2 	&#163;29.99	 GameCube	&#163;39.99 Xbox	&#163;44.99 Z-Axis/Acclaim	***Acclaim has clearly been eye ing the success of Activision's extreme sports games enviously, and has paid it the ultimate compliment by copying them. Aggressive Inline could not be simpler to describe: it is Tony Hawk's Pro Skater on inline skates rather than a skateboard.Despite being as original as a karaoke rendition of My Way, it at least has the decency to be a well-executed, playable game. The use of inline skates rather than a skateboard brings a few bells and whistles to the party: you can, for example, perform vaults over objects or spin around horizontal poles, as well as perform tricks while skating backwards.As with Pro Skater, the key to high-scoring tricks is to chain moves together and, in that respect, being able to   vault and pole-spin enhances one's enjoyment. But the mid-air trick engine is less responsive and varied than that of any of the Tony Hawk's games.The format of the game most closely resembles the forthcoming Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4, as it boasts huge levels, no time limits when you play in career mode and challenges set up by bystanders.Graphically, Aggressive Inline is up to scratch, and it is great fun to play. If you liked the Tony Hawk's games, you will undoubtedly find it very enjoyable - and if you are a keen inline skater, then it is something of a must.But if its sheer derivativeness nags away at you, you would be better advised to wait for Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4. (SB)Valhalla ChroniclesPC £14.99 Paradox Entertainment/ Koch Media * ValhallaChronicles comes riding in on the wake of some great role-playing game titles such as      Neverwinter Nights and Morrowind but, unfortunately, it's a game no self-respecting      RPG fan would want washing up on their PC.The initial premise is to take one of four      Viking warriors through a hack and slash adventure set in the rich world of Norse      mythology. Going by the opening movie, you'd be forgiven for thinking your money had      been well spent. Sadly, it's all downhill from there. The in-game graphics are very poor      and minuscule, and the gameplay is laughable, with your character bashing enemies      with an arm up, arm down movement until a) they actually notice, or b) they respond      with the same wind-up toy movement until it looks like a miniature scene from The      Three Stooges.Your character has a basic inventory, a quest log and that's about it.      New weapons and armour can be purchased from various merchants: that is, if you      haven't accidentally got into a fight with them because of the game's insistence on      having the default left mouse click assigned to combat, and not differentiating      between enemies and those you might not want to kill as soon as you meet them.Thus, an accidental click on the wrong person and soon you're running for the hills.      It's a farce. The one bright side is the price, and there are worse ways of spending      £14.99. Unfortunately for Valhalla Chronicles, there are better ways, too. (RP)
One of the big lessons to be learned from the first down wave of the internet is the importance of using appropriate technology.In a recent interview the first director of the Oxford Internet Institute admitted that his favourite gadget was a fountain pen. He has tried other ways and finds writing with a pen the best way to marshall his ideas. If that is what is best for him then that's the end of the argument.One of the causes of the crash of Boo.com, the high-profile retailer that was one of the first to go belly-up during the internet boom, was that its technology was too sophisticated for its targeted market.Yet a 100% internet booking system is brilliantly appropriate for easyjet, the cut-price airline. It couldn't be successful without it because it enables the company to maximise its "yield management" by having a jungle of different prices at different times of the day and night.Doing that over the telephone would be a labour-intensive nightmare besides being more expensive. But when all the prices and times are laid before you on the web it works. I find the internet good for booking hotels, especially overseas, but not (yet) much good for ordering wine or for personal banking because doing it over the phone is quicker. And with a mobile you can do it from anywhere.What a shame then that the big music companies haven't stopped to think about appropriate technology before sending their battalions in to erase all the peer-to-peer file sharing services that have sprung up to enable web users to exchange music or films among themselves.They simply don't understand that people would be quite happy to pay if they were getting a service that was tailored to their needs -in other words if it was consumer driven and not producer-driven as it is today.It was reported some months ago that, although there has been a dip in CD sales, this was not so evident among peer-to-peer users whom the record companies are aiming their bullets at.A report published by Forrester Research yesterday confirmed that the troubles of the music business are due to a lot of factors - like competition from video games and DVDs and the economic recession - but not to downloading.It suggests that if the music moguls want to get people to pay for downloading music from the web they will have to do it on the terms laid down by the consumers (possibly in a bill of music rights).This would have to recognise the consumer's right to find music from any label (not just that selected by a cartel of producers) and their right to "burn" their own downloads on to CDs or copy them on to an MP3 player.What ought to go hand-in-hand with appropriate technology is an appropriate payments system, especially for low-ticket items. In real life people aren't required to take out monthly subscriptions before they are allowed to buy anything. Nor should they on the internet.At the moment mobile phones , though at an embryonic stage of development, are streets ahead of websites in enabling people to buy things for small amounts of money. Look how we happily pay for a text message with room for only a couple of sentences but resist paying for email even though it might come with a book or even a film as an attachment.&amp;#149 Victor Keegan is editor of Guardian Online
Iomega is unveiling a new $180 750Mb Zip drive for USB 2.0, with a $200 FireWire version due at MacWorld Paris next month. But, as an analyst quoted byNews.compoints out: "A drive that offers less than 1GB storage appears to be an anachronism in a market where I can buy external hard drives that offer 5GB, 10GB or 20GB of storage for a few hundred dollars." Especially when most of us can now burn CDs, even DVDs, from the desktop.
The Registerfollows up Bill Thompson'sfollow upin today's Online to his original piece inThe Registerfron last week called "Damn the Constitution: Europe must take back the Web", which proved pretty controversial, and prompted this orgy of linking.
It's Thursday, so this week's print edition also appearsonline.
AOL Time Warner has admitted it may have "improperly" accounted for advertising revenue worth £31.7m.The transactions took place at its AOL internet division, whose accounting practices are being investigated by the US justice department and the securities and exchange commission.In a filing to the stock market regulator, AOL Time Warner said it may have "improperly recognised" as advertising revenue three payments America Online received over a period of a year and a half.It did not identify the transactions involved.It made the discovery in the week of August 5, just two weeks after the company revealed the SEC had opened an inquiry into its accounting practices.The revelation could not come at a worse time for AOL. Ad revenue at its online division has plummeted and the company has been criticised for not making the most of the merger between AOL and Time Warner.It emerged yesterday that David Colburn, a senior executive who negotiated advertising deals for the company, had left the company.AOL would not comment on the circumstances of his departure.The Washington Post last month revealed AOL's unusual techniques for booking revenues. For example, ads sold on behalf of eBay were treated as AOL revenue.The Enron and WorldCom accounting scandals have increased the pressure on major companies to issue spotless accounts.
With a predicted a rush in sales of digital cameras this Christmas there are plenty of new models due out soon.The DigiBino DB100 from Pentax is a binocular with integrated digital camera and LCD screen. A twitcher's dream, users can snap up to five images per second of the object in their viewfinder. The DigiBino features a 7x magnification pair of binoculars and a shutter release primed for capturing fast moving objects. It is on sale now for &#163;299.99.Pentax has also unveiled   the &#163;499.99 Optio 430RS and &#163;399.99 Optio 330RS. Both feature a stainless steel body, auto-exposure modes, 3x optical and 2x digital zooms, movie mode and 3D image photography.Olympus is due to launch a new 4.0 megapixel model. The &#163;499.99 CAMEDIA C-4000 Zoom has 3x optical and 3.5x digital zooms, six auto-exposure modes and a 1.8inch LCD screen.SiPix has unveiled a larger model; the &#163;79.99   StyleCam Deluxe. SiPix has upped the resolution to 1.3 megapixels and includes digital video with sound. Images are stored in 16MB of memory. It is due in September.If you can't wait that long, www.firebox.com has the ultra tiny gSmart Mini 2 camera at &#163;79.95, with a resolution of 1.3 megapixels.Fuji has five new models appearing, ranging from a &#163;159.99 2.0 megapixel model, the FinePix A202 to the &#163;449.99 3.2 megapixel FinePix S304. All five have mini movie recording options.Battling for a similar segment of the market are Hewlett-Packard's Photosmart 320 (&#163;149), 620 (&#163;199) and 720 (&#163;299). The 720 has 3.3 megapixel resolution, while the cheaper models have 2.1 megapixels. All will be on sale soon.Kodak is also introducing a   pair of digital cameras in September. The &#163;299.99 DX4330 has a resolution of 3.1 megapxiels, 3x optical and 3x digital zooms, and video capture. The &#163;149.99 CX4210 has a resolution of 2.0 megapixels and a 2x digital zoom. Both have 16MB of memory.The Swann PenCam features a web camera that transmits images to a TV or PC up to 100m away. Bound to come in very handy at this year's office Christmas party, it sells for &#163;600. Details from  www.swann.com.au.
It's been a roller-coaster week of self-discovery. A few nights ago, when preparing for a job interview, I stumbled across a website offering instant IQ tests. Fearing that psychometric tests awaited me, I opted to take it. I should have known better. The hour was late, my brain was fuzzy and there was little more than caffeine propping up my eyelids.I had barely begun when the automatic 10 minute-timer cut in. Seconds later, the results dropped into my mailbox. I was left staring at my screen in a mixture of horror and disbelief. I had scored 75, placing me on the lowly third percentile. The website's challenge to "make a killing brain skilling" was cruel. I needed counselling.A sleepless night followed as I tried to account for my dismal performance, terrified that my Mensa-calibre partner should discover my secret. The job interview was the last thing on my mind: I had already thrown in the towel. IQ and psychometric tests have become popular tools in staff recruitment. And there are dozens of websites offering tests to let you see how you might measure up.Many use free tests to promote further paid-for examinations, or ask for money to give you a more detailed analysis of your results. Fearing a degenerative brain disorder, I resolved to take another IQ test the next day. I chose the internet's "most popular" IQ quiz atIQTest.com.  I cleared my head, gulped back my coffee and, with heart thumping, clicked start. I raced through the questions, intent on recovering enough extra points just to lift me into the below average category. I opened the results message and nearly fell off my seat. I had garnered an extra 55 points and been promoted to a borderline gifted genius. I was so relieved I almost parted with $9.95 to receive a full profile of my exalted intellect.Suddenly, the job interview was a realistic proposition again. Further online IQ testing continued to throw up wild variations. Why did this happen when many of the websites claimed their tests were accurate to within five points? A cynical thought crossed my mind. Were some of the websites manipulating the results to sell their merchandise? Or were the variations simply down to inadequate test conditions, the use of different scales and the much-debated flaws of the IQ test itself?I decided to try an experiment. I gave my partner the URL of three websites that had tested me and asked for his results or, rather, to spare his modesty, the variation in his scores. He was happy enough withwww.iqtest.com, which put him in its genius category. He had no quibble with theGuardian's testwhich placed him in its top 120+ category. Butwww.intelligencetest.com, which gave me such a deplorable score, found him below its admittedly high average of 119.Mensamust be the ultimate authority on IQs but it wouldn't settle this puzzle. You can't qualify for its brainy ranks via an internet test: they demand strictly supervised tests in controlled conditions. And they have a point. With many surfers likely to be burning the midnight oil or fending off children and other distractions, concentration levels are bound to fluctuate - and so are scores. The net also offers ample scope for cheating.Cautions about the limitations of the tests and reassurance for low scorers are often inadequate. The BBC recently enticed 90,000 people to complete itsTest the Nation IQ quiz.Its message board is littered with gripes about its validity. Some contributors, who failed to reach the average score of 109, were left worrying about premature dementia or the "Simpson gene". These folk should probably steer clear of the Guardian's provocative challenge to see if their salaries match their IQs and, conversely, if their IQs justify their salaries.The site athttp://queendom.comoffers an IQ test, with no time limit, aimed at discovering your potential intelligence. Unusually, calculators, pens and paper are permitted, but software is not. It also offers an intriguing list of other paid-for psychometric tests with titles such as Burn Out, Jealousy for gay men and Procrastination. For a tantalising free snapshot,www.peoplemaps.co.ukoffers a 10-question psychometric test, but demands &#163;19 for the full picture.The site athttp://Psychometrics.comis more generous, offering fairly comprehensive results free. The truth is that after sitting half a dozen online IQ tests, I have learnt only that my IQ lies somewhere between the third and 93rd percentile. The tests have produced a slightly schizophrenic portrait of a leader and broker, an extrovertgo-getter;  an artistic investigatorwww.psychometrics.com; an impulsive thrill-seeker;www.brainbench.com. Equipped with this knowledge, my interview should be a breeze.The following apology was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Saturday August 19, 2002We have almost, but not quite, eliminated the non-medical use of the term schizophrenic, as sighted above: "The tests have produced a slightly schizophrenic portrait of a leader..." Apologies.
Orange customers can say it with pictures now it has become the second network to launch photo imaging via multimedia messaging service (MMS). It follows in the footsteps of T-Mobile, which launched its service in June.MMS, seen by the networks as an evolution of SMS text messaging, allows mobiles to send images to each other using integrated cameras. The images can be accompanied by text or voice messages.Orange is also launching a service called Picture Content Messages, which offers entertainment and information updates with images. Similar to T-Mobile, Orange offers the service with the two key   MMS-equipped camera/ phone handsets - Nokia's 7650 and the Sony Ericsson T38i, which has a snap-on CommunicCam camera to take the pictures.However, its pricing structure is completely different. While T-Mobile users pay &#163;20 a month for a range of services including the option of sending a large number of photo messages, Orange has no subscription fee, just a charge of 40p for every image sent and 25p for each one received.If the image is sent to a non-MMS phone, or an MMS-phone that uses another network, a text message is sent with details of a website where the image   has been stored.Orange's Suzanne Snygg explains: "Next year, when a person can send an image to MMS phones on any network, and the number of users is higher, we will look at offering monthly MMS subscriptions as well as pay-per-image pricing."Some within the mobile   industry believe the price of 40p per image is too high. "There are services in Europe that charge as little as 15p per image," says Mick Greenway, of market analysts Datamonitor. "For photo messaging to work it needs to be cheaper."His views are echoed by Simon Gordon of O2, which plans a November launch for its MMS. "We decided to hold back until there was a good selection of handsets available and interoperability issues are being resolved. I think images will cost in the region of 30p to send."Vodafone also intends to launch MMS in the UK in the autumn. It has similar services running in other European countries, with the average cost per image being between &euro;0.30 and &euro;0.40.
Mobile phone and PDA users are now being offered more and more ways to send and receive email.  T-Mobile in the UK (formerly One2One) is next month expected to launch Officelink, which will give customers access to the documents on their company server via a personal digital assistant (PDA).It will also introduce the BlackBerry, a device for sending and receiving emails  sans attachments. Last month, Vodafone added an all-in-one PDA and phone, the HP Jornada 928, and the BlackBerry to its range. Its BlackBerry service, which includes unlimited emails, costs less than &#163;1 a day.It costs more if fewer than 100 people in a company buy it. The device costs &#163;305. Peter Erskine, chief executive of rival operator O2, the first mobile operator to provide BlackBerry in the UK, says, "about 320 companies have them. "The device has an general packet radio services connection subject to network coverage".It is also possible to use the humble mobile for email. Alastair Gilchrist, head of e-commerce at EasyJet, gets email updates from the eBay auction site on his tiny Nokia 8310. He has a simple email address, and mail arrives as a mobile text message (or SMS).The service is best for short emails. If messages are longer than 160 characters, they are continued in the next SMS.  Gilchrist, who launched the service as group product manager at One2One, uses it regularly. Deev Piddock, an artist, also uses the service and has an email address based on his mobile number. It appealed to him because he doesn't have a desktop PC.When friends want to invite him to dinner, they email him on his phone. However, he says: "The messages get cut off in their prime; they are about 10 words long. I know I'm invited to dinner and who by, but not what time."It looks as though he has been set up with the headline-only service, which just gives you the main header of the message and a bit of text.There are, in fact, three options of one, two or three SMSs worth of email text. But when trying to implement email on a mobile, hassles are nothing new. Though potentially a great source of revenue, operators are poor at explaining how to use it. I was recently lent an XDA PDA by O2, which enables you to make calls and connect to the net.I thought it would be ideal for connecting to Hotmail and picking up messages forwarded from Compuserve. This proved problematic. Apart from great difficulty in    connecting to GPRS, to sign on to Hotmail via O2 you need to know the website address for connecting via a PDA.  Oddly enough, O2 did not seem to have it to hand and it is not mentioned on the Hotmail site. For the record, it is www.mobile.msn.com.You have to register and specify what device you are using. Thereafter, you type http://mobile. msn.com/pocketpc. For Yahoo Mail, go to http://mobile.yahoo.com or use Yahoo.com and click on the tiny dot to the right of the main logo. If you want your emails read to you, try Virgin Mobile's email reader. It costs 20p a minute and you can listen to email from a variety of services - including Freeserve and BT Openworld - using the POP3 email protocol.  Alison Bonny, of Virgin, says: "You can delete or reply to email messages using the email reader. When you reply, your voice is recorded and attached to the email as a WAV sound file."Vxtras email from Virgin is   accessible via Wap for between 5p and 15p a minute. Vodafone's Mobile Email is available to anyone on a UK network on a pay-as-you-go basis. It can be used to access or listen to up to five internet email accounts but not AOL or Hotmail. To use services such as the Virgin or Vodafone ones, you fill in a form on the operator's website but then you just use your mobile.  Bonny points out that:"New phones like the Sony Ericsson T68i have a built-in POP3/IMAP4 email client allowing direct access to email accounts." And Vodafone's Toby Robson uses the same phone with a Compaq iPaq for instant messaging. The newest solutions are not always the best, though. Bridget Blow, chief executive of the outsourcing company ITNet swears by her Nokia Communicator, one of the first all-in-one phones cum email devices. Email may be a killer application, but it is often a killer to get working.
In the car park of a large supermarket on the outskirts of Stockholm, Niklas Wolkert, a 31-year-old programmer, is waiting with his son for his wife to finish shopping. Niklas looks like any other bored father until he takes his mobile phone from his jacket pocket and begins tapping out a text message.It might look innocent enough, but in a few moments, Wolkert will be stepping into a virtual world. Wolkert is about to begin a game of Botfighters - a game that uses positioning technology in the phone to turn Wolkert into a virtual assassin, fighting foes on the streets of Stockholm.Botfighters is one of the    most sophisticated games emerging on what is a new platform for play: the mobile phone. With their tiny screens and humble graphics it may seem hard to believe, but mobile gaming is seen as one way mobile companies can increase users' spending over the next few years. And you only have to look at Wolkert's face when he is playing Botfighters to see he is taking part in an extraordinary game."When you get a reaction from another player, the rush is ... tremendous," he explains, between firing missiles at unknown assailants. The aim of the game is to "kill" as many people as possible. Wolkert takes about 30 seconds to target    his opponent, who is more than a mile away and closing in. The battle lasts about 20 minutes, with both players shooting missiles several times.  The game is only stopped by the return of his wife and the shopping. But Wolkert vows this is not the end: he will track down his opponent again. Revenge killings are common in Botfighters, and some struggles can go on for weeks.Each SMS costs Wolkert around 10p and each "turn" of the game generates new messages. One Botfighter recently ran up a bill of &#163;600 in 60 days, but most spend a more modest average of &#163;10 a month. The revenue adds up to nearly &#163;35,000 a month, which is shared between the games's developer, It's Alive, and Telia, the biggest network operator in Sweden."I don't see it that the person at the other end is getting a text message," says Wolkert. "I see them getting a warning message from their robot that someone is shooting at them. I know that that person gets the same sort of rush that I get."Sometimes, Wolkert engages in a spot of hit-and-run, cruising around the city shooting targets, driving off before they have a chance to retaliate. Elite teams, or clans, help each other get higher on the top list, although players rarely meet their assailants."What we've done is drape a virtual world on top of the real world," says Lars Erikson, of It's Alive, Botfighters' creator. "So when you are part of the game, you see things no one else sees. It depends a lot on the imagination of the user, but we try to feed them with information on our website so they can make up their own game."To help them, the company has left a number of virtual items in the real world. Players constantly get messages telling them there is a "first aid kit" on the next street corner, or a bigger weapon on the other side of the street."For the players, their phone is not a phone. It becomes your weapon or your radar," says Erikson.  Wolkert adds: "It's a game that plays with your mind. It uses the best images you can get - those of your own imagination. My opponent probably    doesn't have the slightest similarity to my idea of what the game looks like to me, but that doesn't matter to me."In Botfighters, the players rarely meet their opponents, but in September, It's Alive will release Supafly, a kind of online soap opera that will encourage people to meet each other. The company is also developing a version of Botfighters for the UK, this time tied in with the forthcoming Channel 4 series X-Fire.Botfighters and the rest are at the vanguard of a mobile gaming revolution, using the latest technology to make themselves stand out. But even some old, familiar classic games are getting a new lease of life on handheld devices.Pac-Man, for instance, burst on to the arcade scene in 1980 and quickly became the most popular coin-operated game of all time. It did so in a console as big as a wardrobe. What the mobile phone industry wants to know is: can it make millions again, this time on a screen the size of a matchbox?The handheld version looks, plays and even sounds like the original - and is just as addictive. And Pac-Man is not alone.    More classic arcade games are being converted to run on mobile phones, with a host of Atari favourites such as Pong, Centipede, Breakout and Asteroids soon to appear.The latest range of mobile phones comes with Wireless Java, a system that allows programmers to write miniature versions of arcade classics for the new handsets. Wireless Java phones, in the form of the Nokia 7650, are only just in the shops, but they will be followed next month by the Motorola T720 and by Sony Ericsson's T300 before Christmas. Other manufacturers are not far behind.Big things are predicted for these little games. Research company Datamonitor forecasts revenues of &#163;5bn by 2006, from the 850m customers willing to pay for mobile games by the middle of this decade.  That remains to be seen. But the wireless industry is desperate to recoup its &#163;22.5bn investment in 3G networks, and sees games as one of its key new markets.Today, to buy a game for your mobile phone, you must first access the internet via your handset and select the    game you want to buy from specially designed Wap (wireless application protocol) sites. Next, you confirm your order by sending an SMS to the site. The game is then downloaded to your handset and the cost added to your phone bill. The games will cost between &#163;1 and &#163;3 and, in some cases, you might have to pay for each new level.The miniature version of Pac-Man was built on a piece of software developed by Synergenix, a Stockholm-based company founded in 1999 by Anthony Hartley of Worthing. Hartley says he is well placed to exploit the new mobile game market. He started programming at the age of 11 on the Sinclair ZX80, and sold his first commercial game three years later. He came to Sweden in 1994 and set up as a developer for the Game Boy. For Hartley, mobile phones are the next step.The Mophun game engine Synergenix has developed is open source, meaning that any small business wanting to design games for use is welcome to download it free from its website (see link below).  Initially, at least, a few games will be given away with    new handsets, but the majority will be for sale."It's already being used by many programmers simply working off their own back," explains Hartley. "Many are hobbyists who have just thought 'wow, I can program a mobile phone'."These independent developers submit their game to Synergenix, which submits the game to the handset manufacturer. If all parties agree that the game is suitable, then it gets a kind of digital signature that protects the game from being tampered with.  Synergenix says that most games will sell for about four euros. It will then take 50-euro cents for each game that uses its engine. The remainder will be split between the network operators (who will take at least half), the content aggregators (companies that distribute games to the networks) and the programmer. Hartley says a typical programmer can expect to make about one and half euros for each game sold.And you don't have to have a new Java phone to play games on your mobile. A market for games exists for older handsets using SMS and Wap. Celador, creator of    Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?, offers a text version - complete with lifelines and cash prizes - in collaboration with Vodafone and Motorola. Scotland's Digital Bridges produces a range of SMS games, including two linked to Star Trek and another to Scooby Doo. Riot-E in Helsinki provides SMS games for Lord of the Rings. Similar games exist in Iceland, Denmark and Russia.Although the Scandinavian countries still have the edge on mobile technology, many industry analysts believe that the UK is ideally placed to take advantage of the new mobile game market.The UK helped develop the first home market for computer games during the microcomputer boom of the early 80s. Since then, the production of games has become more complex and far more expensive for independent developers to compete.  But mobile handsets have much the same processing power as the original microcomputers, such as the ZX Spectrum and Commodore 64, which is one of the reasons the first games to be sold on Java handsets will be arcade classics."The cost of developing a video game is so high and the market is shrinking," says Juan Montes, head of content at Motorola Europe. "The typical budget for a computer game is now &#163;2-3m, and the development cycle is two years. For &#163;20,000, you can do a really nice Java game and see your game being used in as little as six weeks."In the UK, a lot of experience comes from independent developers who have experience on the Amiga and Game Boy. Those are the kind of skills needed for the new Java games."Still, the latest Java handsets are very expensive, and the new services running off them, such as Multimedia Messaging (MMS), are out of the price range of most children. Most analysts think it will be Christmas next year before colour handsets become cheap enough to be bought for children.  Perhaps that is why the first games that are being sold for the Java phones are games from the early 80s. You have to be over 30 to be able to afford them.
The children found him in July, while gathering eiderdown in Iceland's long summer days - the body of Oscar the goose, dead on the island of Hjorsey, with yellow rings on his legs and a satellite transmitter on his neck.Migrating geese die all the time, but Oscar was no ordinary bird. Science and showmanship have turned the great annual migration of Oscar and five other light-bellied brent geese into a combination of birdwatching, transatlantic race, and Big Brother style elimination game show.Thousands of people have logged on to the website of Britain's Wildfowl &amp; Wetlands Trust to follow the satellite-tracked progress of the geese - Major Ruttledge, Austin, Hugh, Kerry, Arnthor, as well as Oscar - on their 9,000 mile journey from Ireland to Arctic Canada and back.A handful of enthusiasts have paid &#163;75 to "adopt" one of the geese. In return, they have been getting regular text messages on their mobile phones updating them on the birds' progress. There are even unconfirmed rumours that an internet gambling site is taking bets on which of the geese makes it back to Ireland first.That is, if any of them do. The geese are on their homeward journey, but two have already been knocked out in the harshest fashion. Oscar was the first to go. He never made it beyond Iceland, the birds' first staging point on their northward journey."It was strange. He started to move with the other geese, and moved within Iceland. Then we found the transmitter was still transmitting, but the bird wasn't moving - when it was getting to the time he should have gone to Canada," said James Robinson, the trust's research officer.The trust speculates that Oscar was an older bird, who found the first leg of the journey too exhausting, or that he may have fallen victim to a predator such as a gyrfalcon.Mystery surrounds the disappearance of the second goose to drop out, Arnthor. He survived the ocean flights from Ireland to Iceland. He also managed the trip from Iceland to Greenland - where the geese fly for 12 hours solid, then drop down to the cold, stormy waters to rest - and the climb to 8,000ft to cross the vast Greenland icecap.Then, somewhere on Disko Island, on the west coast of Greenland, his transmitter went dead. Dr Robinson said the transmitter may have stopped working, but the most likely cause was that Arnthor was shot by a subsistence hunter for the pot, in defiance of laws protecting the species.The other four birds made it to Canada, where they fed and and then bred. The tracking shows they have now looped back for home.The exercise has a serious scientific purpose. Information on the migrations will give weight to setting up international agreements to protect the habitats that are important to this population each step of the way. To date, there has been little study of the migrations of this species of goose, whose journey is the longest of any such bird.In the world, there are about 20,000 light-bellied brent geese. Stocky and with dark plumage, they eat enough to put on about a third again of their body weight to help them migrate north in spring and south in late summer. Almost all the birds who survive winter in Ireland, from the end of August. By late September, most of the birds are thronging Strangford Lough, near Belfast. Some of them stay the winter in other parts of western Europe."We learned much about the route when the geese undertook their spring migration," said Dr Robinson.But there have been surprises about the latest migrations. This time the birds failed to stick together, dispersing to various Canadian islands.The four remaining among the geese are still available for people to "adopt" atwww.wwt.org.uk/brent.
5K topsShockwave Flash may blight the web with skippable intros and stupid animations, but it is clearly not all Macromedia's fault. The annual 5K competition, for web pages that take    up 5K or less, has just been won by a Shockwave page, Frutiger Toy. It may be utterly pointless, but it does not use more than 5K of memory, which is less than Google's logo. The top 10 includes other Flash designs, too, but this kind of cleverness has finally rendered the competition a waste of time. Most web pages are badly written and ludicrously bloated, so it should be a stimulating challenge to produce pages in 5K or less. But the idea of producing pointless software toys in 5K doesn't just miss the point, it's boring.www.the5k.orgWho's tops?Who is the greater artist, William Shakespeare or Britney Spears? If that is too hard, how about comparing    Mozart and Kurt Cobain, or Michelangelo and Miles Davis? You can pick any two of 10 at The Philosophers' Review site, which is trying to answer the question: What    makes a good work of art? So far, more than 16,000 visitors have submitted answers, and you can find out who is ahead by taking the test.www.philosophers.co.uk/games/britney1.htmRemember itAll kinds of important documents appear in the news or on the web, and then either disappear or are forgotten. Russ Kick has had the bright idea of stashing them away in The Memory Hole. Examples range from government files and court documents to videos and sound recordings, but "the emphasis is on material that exposes things that we're not supposed to know (or that we're supposed to forget)". The current focus is on American documents but it could develop into an important global resource.www.thememoryhole.orgTouched upOne of the most obvious things to do with the world wide web is to try to present the network graphically, preferably in three dimensions. In theory, this should be easier to grasp than a list where you have to examine each entry separately. Visualthesaurus was a useful example of this idea, and the ability to extract sets directly from Google has now given the idea-mapping idea a new impetus. (See Google Lab's sets feature.) TouchGraph's GoogleBrowser is one of the better efforts at visualisation, and the same technology lets you browse Amazon's "also bought" links. The zoom facility is great, but my brief experience is that it quickly becomes more confusing than a raw list. Well, how many of those who looked at the cartoony KartOO (Web watch, June 6) are actually using it?www.Visualthesaurus.comhttp://labs.google.com/setswww.touchgraph.com/TGGoogleBrowser.htmlwww.pmbrowser.info/amazon.htmlwww.kartoo.comKeys to goAnother welcome idea being developed at Google Labs is the facility to search using keyboard shortcuts, instead of the mouse. TLH (TryLooking Here) is already using it.http://labs.google.com/keyswww.trylookinghere.com/DIY WapHaving a website no longer buys any street cred, but Wizman hopes that having your own Wap page will become "the ultimate personal assistant for fully fledged socialites". It has launched a site where you can build a home page for your mobile phone or PDA. Even if    you don't, the site still offers free games, an email service and a place to keep Wap bookmarks. It also provides instructions for setting up your phone - or, if you have a Nokia or Ericsson model, does it for you. To register, enter your mobile number in UK format; calls are charged at the 0870 rate.www.wizman.comDEC aidIf you do have a website, the Disasters Emergency Committee would like you to carry its banner. DEC has launched a campaign to raise money for starving people in southern Africa, and visitors to the site can also use a credit card to make a donation online.www.dec.org.ukBeat thisBobby, one of the most interesting sites on the web, has just been taken over by Watchfire Corporation, which will integrate the technology into its site management software. The company says it will keep the free version online at its new address. Bobby checks any URLs you enter to see if the pages meet the W3C's Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 and the US government's section 508, intended to help make the web accessible to the disabled. Sadly, almost none of them do.http://bobby.watchfire.comNew &amp; noted&#183;BT Openworld's new subscription travel club that offers discounts on flights:www.btopenworld.com/travelclub&#183;Help build the world's biggest digital sculpture:www.iconobloc.com&#183;A web-based spelling checker:www.spellcheck.net&#183;Classic (American) clips:www.retromedia.tv&#183;For webmasters, an open source defence against spiders:www.robotcop.org&#183;Something likeCheerios?:www.cropcirclecereal.com
Since last Friday I've been Slashdotted, NTK'd and Kuro5hined. I've made the DayPop top 10 and been No8 on Blogdex, and my name has been trashed all over the net by people I have never met.  At Kuro5hin, one of the most widely read weblogs, 35% of those voting in their online poll think I'm a "snobby, self-important European".Others think I'm just foolish. I've had email inviting me to "go to Baghdad", I have been described as a "poor scared little man" and been called "a whining socialist weenie".Some people were less kind. However, I've also had many expressions of support, and a lot of helpful and intelligent comments from people who enjoy the opportunity to engage in an online debate. And all because of an article I wrote for online news site The Register, with the slightly provocative title Damn the Constitution: Europe must take back the Web.In it I outlined the reasons why today's internet is being destroyed by the actions of US corporations, programmers and politicians, all obsessed with commercial advantage and crippled by their outdated adherence to the political principles of a    Constitution which is no longer relevant. I described the absurdity of recent US legislation - like the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which makes anyone who gets round copy protection a criminal, or the Berman Bill that would make hacking into P2P networks legal - and showed how US legislators acted as if its laws applied over the whole net while the majority of the population has simply abandoned any belief in the political system.And I outlined a new approach, based on current developments in "trusted" computers, which could let us map the internet far more closely to the real world, giving us the ability to restore national boundaries and national law to our online activities and get away from the idea that "cyberspace" is outside the real world. It was hardly surprising that many US readers were aggrieved by the tone of the article - at one point I called the Founding Fathers "a bunch of renegade merchants and rebellious slave-owners."Yet many seemed more upset by the idea that the US is incapable of showing leadership as the net evolves, believing that they have an automatic right to decide its future because they invented    it and paid for it. Since my email address was at the bottom of the article, they took the opportunity to tell me that I was an enemy of freedom, a pathetic European or a fool who did not understand the beauty of the US way.And they posted the piece to weblogs all over the net, creating a storm of inter  est which has not yet died down. I am still getting a couple of emails every hour, a level of response which is astonishing to a journalist used to writing for print publications where five or 10 emails mark a major success.Despite the criticism from some, I stand by my argument. The internet, 20 years    old next year, is at a critical point in its development. It can either remain in the hands of the technologists and the geeks or become absorbed into our society as a key aspect of our daily lives. In order for this to happen it must, like television, telephony or motor cars before it, be regulated and controlled in   the public interest.This is not a popular point of view among those who think that when we are online we are in a separate space that cannot be subject to mere earthly regulation. Like shamans, they see the keyboard as a portal to a new level of existence, where limitations on freedom vanish and laws cannot apply. Of course, they are wrong, and the net is already heavily regulated by the legal system. There have been several successful prosecutions for online libel, and the current debate on copyright is not framed in terms of the "law of cyberspace".Having no law is not an option: we need good, sensible and workable laws. Our online freedom may be illusory, but it is an attractive illusion. The time has arrived, however, when we must abandon it and decide how and by whom the net will be controlled.  As a "socialist weenie", I believe in democratically elected governments and the political process, even though it is far from perfect. We certainly don't need the US Constitution to decide what laws we will have online - we need a network based around European traditions, serving European interests and subject to European law. Anything else will be a disaster.Comments to online. feedback@guardian.co.uk
Spam has long crossed the boundary between being an irritant and a major problem for the net community, and it is getting worse.  It was recently reported that 80% of the mail in Hotmail accounts is spam (although people tend to use "disposable" Hotmail addresses when asked for an email address while surfing) and a typical account would get 30-40 spams - some very offensive - every day.You'll    get spam even if you never give your email address to anyone, because spammers use software that "guesses" email addresses: they will send email to andrew, barry, charlie at whatever.com and then move on to andrew1, barry1, charlie1 and so on.  Since it costs them nothing to do this, they'll just leave their PCs running. Enough people will respond to the URL at the bottom of the email ("to be removed from this mailing list click here") that the spammers will soon have a long list of valid email addresses to sell or swap.Filters can be some help. I use Spamfire, which checks my mail server every few minutes and pulls off everything that looks like spam. When I read my mail via Wap, not having to wade through endless nonsense saves me much time and money. It also means that nothing reaches my kids' accounts without me vetting the subject and sender first.But I still have to check the spam log once a day because the occasional non-spam message will get caught up. This illustrates another problem area. As spam filters tighten the net, they're beginning to do more harm than good. A recent issue of a Macintosh newsletter had an article about spam containing the word Viagra, resulting in the newsletter being identified as spam by filters.About 10% of subscriptions bounced back! This problem has been evident for years: in 1995, angry breast cancer patients flamed AOL for putting the world breast on its blacklist. AT&amp;T once filtered out its own messages. Filters cannot be a long-term solution. Legislation is another possibility.South Korea has just fined six companies for sending unsolicited email following a recent spam crackdown. There, companies that send spam must identify the content of the message in the subject and include contact details so recipients can opt out.Anyone who falsifies details, or sends spam to opted-out users, faces large fines. The European Commission is banning spam as well.  But perhaps we should be looking in another direction. It's a rudimentary law of economics that subsidising something leads to more of it.Spam is subsidised - it gets a free ride on the back of the net - and so it continues to grow. The only way to turn the tide is to stop it being free. There are a number of ideas circulating, but they all    revolve around the same concept: if it cost money to spam, there would be less of it. There are, broadly, two different approaches: make it cost the spammer money to send the spam or make it pay for the receiver to get it.One possibility is creating mail clients that demand money to accept mail: a legitimate company emails you and your mail client puts their message into escrow and asks for 50p from "the system".Once the legitimate company has paid, the mail will be released to your account, the sender credited with 49p and "the system" keeps a penny for its trouble. At least one start-up, IronPort, is creating plug-ins for widely used mail servers such as Sendmail to implement a scheme along these lines. Making the sender pay doesn't have to involve an explicit charge. Suppose all email was encrypted and digitally signed and that your   mail server would simply delete any email that wasn't.If a spammer wants to send a million emails, they have to perform a million public key encryptions, a million session key generations and a million symmetric encryptions. Even if it took a desktop PC only one-tenth of a second to generate signed spam, it will still take more than a day to send out the spam, as opposed to a few seconds at the moment.What's more, the spam will arrive encrypted in your mail box. When you click on it, you'll see a screen full of unintelligible nonsense instead of lurid photographs. If you or your mail package does not recognise the sender then you won't bother to hit "decrypt". If a legitimate organisation wants to email you, they'll have to ask for your key (or get it from a directory) and ask you to add their key to your "trusted" key database.This won't eliminate spam completely: some spammers will find it worth working hard at. But it should reduce the problem to manageable proportions, a more realistic goal than either filtering the life out of the net or passing fantasy legislation.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
How did HistoryWorld.net start?It began eight years ago when I saw my first CD-Rom and couldn't believe how interesting digital information was. Two years later I'd conceived the concept to release my own, about world history. When the CD-Rom market collapsed, the internet was emerging, and that was the obvious home for it.What do visitors to the site see?I built it as a database: every paragraph is a separate record. It's an interactive experience of history - there are numerous and fast ways of finding material as you travel through time. We've developed a thing calledOcean- one-click edited access network and I think we're the only site building an index to serious reference material on the net. This is increasingly needed because, on any subject, one gets far too many results from search engines. I indexed all my material in the traditional way from the start, which we're now incorporating with the best of the free online content.What does being aBT Broadbandpartner entail?It's a new development  that joins sites that would benefit from the spread of broadband. Sites like ours have the content to make the technology exciting. I'm a passionate believer in broadband and want more people to discover its many benefits.How will broadband revolutionise things?It has revolutionised my working life! I agree withSteve Bowbrickthat the future for broadband is about the computer being always online. With our Ocean index you don't even have to go through a search engine. The net is giving everyone an amazing free library at his fingertips. It's only fully useful if people are able to be online all the time.Is the net a reliable archiving medium?It's no more and no less reliable than a bookshop. It's like the biggest virtual newsagent in the world. In the physical world we know what looks reliable, in terms of layout, and we can separate the broadsheet from the tabloid. It's harder to know the difference on the net, which is why people will need guides to edit the material for them. That said, like any bookshop, there is wonderful stuff and complete rubbish too!Gadgets?I recently got aLinksys WUSB11 wireless network adapterto link my and my wife's computers so we can use the same files. The wire-free house of the future sounds interesting but I wouldn't want my computer to open the fridge for me - I quite like opening the fridge!Favourite sites?www.victorianweb.org;www.nga.gov;www.artcyclopedia.com;www.mapquest.co.uk;www.bt.com/directory-enquiriesVisit:www.historyworld.net
A hilarious story comes in from theScottish Daily Record. A hospital "stress-buster" thought it would be a great idea to send calming poems round by email to all the staff. But the email system was nearly brought to its knees by the furious response from over-worked employees. Typically, management have chosen to pay no attention to the flood of ire which has greeted their touchy-feely initiative. "The poetry is a great idea ahead of its time, and it will continue," said a spokeswoman.
Applehas enhanced its eMac and iMac lines today. The eMac - the all-in-one machine with a 17-inch CRT display - now has a DVD-ROM/CD-RW drive in the basic £899 (incl VAT) model, where previously there was only a CD-RW drive. For £1,249 (incl VAT) you can buy an eMac that burns DVDs as well, which has to be pretty good.Meanwhile prices on the two most basic iMacs have been lowered, presumably to stimulate demand (around half of iMacs sold are the top-end DVD-burning one). The CD-RW version comes in at £1,049, the DVD-ROM/CD-RW model at £1,199, although if someone asked which I'd buy, I'd still say the DVD-burning i/eMacs look better value.
Microsoft's long awaited Xbox Live - the online gaming service for its console - is to be launched in the US on November 15. A European launch is expected in early 2003.The launch will be exactly one year after Xbox was unleashed on America. Xbox Live will require a £35 starter kit, which includes software, a headset that allows gamers to talk to each other, plus a 12-month subscription to the service. Six games are expected to be available on launch day.Although Microsoft has committed $2bn (£1.3bn) to the new system and content, it will be launched two months after the online debut of Sony's Playstation. The delay could prove vital in maintaining Sony's lead in the console wars.Sony also has another crucial advantage. Xbox Live will only allow broadband access whereas Sony's offering will also permit a dial-up connection. Only about 1% of British households have broadband, whereas about one-third have a dial-up connection to the net. Although a higher proportion of American households have broadband, Sony's use of analogue modems instantly gives it a far higher number of potential users.For the most part, Sony will be leaving the infrastructure of PS2 Online to publishers whereas Microsoft has opted for complete control. The company believes control of the entire system from basic infrastructure to game titles will enable it to provide a more seamless and enjoyable experience for players. Sony hopes it can recruit far more developers by sharing resources and potential profits.
Remarkably, I'm still not entirely immune to the more vomit-inducing PR guff we get sent at Online HQ. In particular Benjamin Cohen, the self-styled teenage "dot.com millionaire" who was much touted at the puffiest extremes of the dot.com bubble, has a talent for pressing all the buttons. His latest self-promoting press release includes some wonderful quotes, including the following: "Back then, I could be as obnoxious as I liked and people would still come back for more, they had to, I was Benjamin Cohen, the Dot Com sensation."Indeed. I'm sure all those who read the full text, helpfully posted over atthe Register, will join me in saying it's good to see he's got his head screwed on right now, though.
Microsoft is investigating claims that a security loophole in its Internet Explorer browser could allow hackers to steal the names, passwords and credit card details of people who believe they are using a secure site.Microsoft played down the problem - but some experts said it could threaten the security of everything from online banking to e-commerce.A San Francisco computer programmer, Mike Benham, claims the problem has existed for at least five years. He first posted information online about the possible flaw on August 5.He says Internet Explorer does not check the validity of digital certificates that prove a website is genuine.Companies use digital certificates - issued by trusted authorities such as VeriSign - and the secure sockets layer (SSL) protocol to ensure that sites are what they claim to be and that personal information is encrypted.But Mr Benham says in Internet Explorer, a valid digital certificate for any website can generate a valid certificate for any other site. That makes it possible that users could be tricked into thinking they are, say, ordering a CD from a legitimate site when they are not."If you ever typed in credit card information to an SSL site there's a chance that somebody intercepted it," he said.Mr Benham also said someone could successfully hijack computer users - for example, over a company's internal network - as they went to banking or e-commerce sites and intercept their information.He said versions 5.0, 5.5 and 6.0 of Internet Explorer were involved in the security scare.The problem is "fairly serious", said Elias Levy, a member of software security company Symantec's security response team. But he said the complexity involved made the probability of widespread attacks "unlikely".Scott Culp, manager of Microsoft's Security Response Centre, said the company was still investigating. He was "unsure" whether it could be called "a vulnerability".     Microsoft has launched a high-profile effort, called the Trustworthy Computing initiative, to resolve security concerns. But problems remain and the company has issued fixes for 41 security flaws so far this year.VeriSign, one of the biggest providers of digital certificates, said it learned of the problem on Friday and contacted Microsoft.Ben Golub, VeriSign's senior vice-president of trust and payment services, said the two companies were working together and did not know of any specific cases of concern.
In the run-up to Dell announcing quarterly results this Friday, there have been a few pundits speculating as to what the company "does next". The assumption is, of course, that Dell must "do" something next, other than continue to boringly churn out lots of PCs and fat profits, bucking the trend in a consumer spending slump. There has been some long-runningspeculationthat the company may produce a low-cost Dell PocketPC in time for Christmas. Butthis piecefrom SF Gate/Wall St Journal takes the biscuit for the bad advice I've seen so far: it appears to be advocating Dell turning into a not-so-mini IBM, with a consulting arm and huge (money draining) R&amp;D division. Seems to me it's silly even to suggest that Dell, which has made its money fromnotdoing many of the things suggested for it by the armchair pundits, should do all that. I suspect, in this climate, that if I was a shareholder I'd be quite happy with Dell just doing what it does: even if it is "grey", it's still jolly profitable.
The boss of internet travel firm ebookers yesterday admitted that he had once held merger talks with arch-rival Lastminute.com as he signalled that he was ready to return to the acquisition trail.Dinesh Dhamija, chief executive of ebookers, refused to rule out a future tie-up with the UK's highest profile e-commerce travel firm. "If the price is right for shareholders, and it is value enhancing, then of course we'd look at it positively," he said of Lastminute.com. "We talked a long time ago but it came to nothing."Mr Dhamija refused to elaborate further on the talks, saying he was bound by a confidentiality agreement.He was speaking after ebookers reported a strong set of half-year results and set a target of &#163;1bn in annual revenues within two years.The group, which is generating revenues of about &#163;285m per year, is expected to report its first pre-tax profit in 2003."We would expect to hit the &#163;1bn mark through two or three acquisitions and organic growth," said Mr Dhamija, who has already taken over 10 firms and believes there are about 50, mostly privately owned, travel firms in Europe ripe for consolidation.Analysts believe Online Travel is one possible stock market-listed merger candidate.Ebookers and Lastminute have been able to shrug off the malaise affecting the travel sector following September 11 because consumers are increasingly buying flights and holidays within Europe from internet retailers who offer cheaper deals than high street chains.In the three months ending June 30, ebookers' pre-tax losses narrowed to &#163;3.5m from &#163;8.6m a year ago, while net cash at the company rose from &#163;22.5m to &#163;23.9m on a quarterly basis. Sales increased 46% to &#163;71m, while margins improved from 9.5% to 10.5% over the year.Mr Dhamija said ebookers would look to reduce its cost base further by employing new staff in India and Ireland where wages are lower than in the UK.The group, which employs 920 people in total, already has 350 staff in India, while a new multi-lingual call centre is being built in Dublin.
Fears that 10-year-olds Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman met their abductor through an internet chatroom were dismissed by police at the weekend as the latest false lead in the massive and increasingly desperate search for the girls.On Friday detectives announced that a computer used by the pair on the day they disappeared had revealed "significant" new leads.This prompted speculation that the pair had fallen victim to an abductor exploiting the anonymity of the internet and the curiosity of the girls to lure them to a meeting.The Home Office responded to anxiety about the issue by reiterating its plans to introduce legislation outlawing the "grooming" of potential victims by paedophiles using internet chatrooms.Meanwhile a Sunday newspaper yesterday published details of a 49-year-old man it alleged had arranged to meet a reporter posing as a 12-year-old girl.But experts from the national crime squad's hi-tech crime unit, drafted in to examine the computer and internet connections made by the girls, said the electronic trail was cold. There was no sign they were emailing or contacting anyone via chatrooms last Sunday, although police have not ruled out earlier contacts.Holly's parents have said she enjoyed using the computer for writing and drawing and occasionally prepared schedules for her father's window cleaning business. She also knew how to use email but only contacted "listed friends" and did not use chatrooms.The meandering route around Soham the girls took in the minutes leading up to their disappearance, during which time they stopped to talk to their school caretaker and to buy sweets, also suggested they were not hurrying to a meeting.In the week since the girls disappeared police have followed up a number of initially encouraging lines of inquiry, only to be frustrated by a lack of hard evidence.Last Tuesday an apparent sighting of the girls at 6.45am on Monday morning at Wentworth, eight miles from Soham, promised much, but it was later dismissed.Detectives who led the hunt last year for the murdered schoolgirl Sarah Payne joined the investigating team, but by Wednesday police conceded that the girls might have been abducted. The same day, a white van was seized from the Wentworth area but police played down its importance.Police have also examined the sex offenders register to try to identify possible abductors in the Soham area, a technique which led police to Roy Whiting, the man convicted for murdering Sarah Payne.On Saturday two men were held after refusing to cooperate with officers in the inquiry, but police have said these arrests were not significant.
Pyra is the parent company of Blogger.com, the easy to use web content management tool that makes Onlineblog.com, and thousands of other blogs, work. I met Evan Williams, chief executive of Pyra, back in January, andwrote abouthow he was a one-man band, holding together this wildly popular service with lots of late-night coding sessions, and little else. Eight months down the line from our meeting, and his world has changed radically. Having created a revenue stream - Blogger Pro - he's taken on four staff, is about to recrute another, and things are moving fast, as he explains inthis postto one of his own blogs. It's a transformation worthy of the internet boom but, having spoken to Ev, and knowing Pyra's rocky history, I suspect the business plan is far more solid than many dot.coms of that era.
In the US,Toshiba is being suedover the design of two Satellite notebook PCs that were among the first to use desktop processors in portables. The class action lawsuit alleges that "the company knowingly concealed a design flaw that caused the notebooks to overheat and shut down", according to an IDG report at PCWorld.com. The risk of heating problems was known in the trade, and I wrote a piece that started "Notebook PC buyers could be making a big mistake if they choose the wrong type of processor" (Online, March 14). At the time, Steve Crawley, Toshiba's marketing manager in the UK, told me: "You run the risk of overheating and thermal shutdown in a bad design. But you can design around the fact that you are using a desktop processor and keep the chip within Intel's guidelines."
You were hopeless at naming Germany's leading personal computer suppliers but you should be able to do better with the UK rankings (by number of units). Jot them down before reading on. The answers, from IDC, are for the second quarter of 2002. In the lead for the first time is HPaq, the combination of Hewlett-Packard and Compaq, with 22.5% of the market. The rest of the top five are: Dell (18.4%), NEC (7%), Toshiba (4.8%), and IBM (4.1%). You probably did not guess NEC, but it owns the Packard-Bell brand. If you guessed Time Group/Tiny, it came sixth. UK market sales (by units) were 0.7% lower than the same quarter last year, says IDC.
The IEEE's computer magazine has published an overview ofinvasive softwarefrom cookies to Magic Lantern. Online covered the topic recently inSpies at liberty in your PC(June 27) andThe web's most wanted(August 1).
MTI Micro is commercialising a methanolfuel celldeveloped at Los Alamos. It could keep portable devices such as PDAs running for ten times as long as they do today, reports Computer Weekly.
Standard &amp; Poor's says it is going todrop Palm from the S&amp;P 500index next week. Palm shares that traded at over $100 when it went public now cost less than $1.
Computer scientistEdsger Wybe Dijkstra, best known for a paper that said Basic's Go To command was "considered harmful", has died aged 72. The article, first published in 1968, was reprintedherein 1995.
The disappearance of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman has highlighted the potential dangers of unfettered internet access.The pair used a computer at Holly's home for around half an hour on the day they disappeared, and police are examining the possibility that they may have agreed to meet their abductor through an internet chatroom.There are hundreds of thousands of such electronic meeting rooms on the worldwide web. They allow any number of computer users to communicate simultaneously in complete anonymity and are hugely popular with children and teenagers.One child in five is estimated to have entered a chatroom, with one in 10 going on to arrange a meeting in real life ("IRL" in chatroom jargon). A recent survey found a third of children were unaware of risks associated with meeting people face-to-face.Most chatrooms offer the opportunity for harmless if inane conversation with strangers. But the lack of monitoring of many sites and the anonymity they provide has seen them exploited by paedophiles looking to groom victims.Instant messaging which allows one-to-one conversations to take place is increasingly popular and almost impossible to effectively monitor.Chatrooms offer topics aimed at particular age groups. Typically these include children, pre-teen, teen and adult.With no checks or balances to prohibit access there is little to stop curious children being exposed to adult material, or abusers from posing as kids to win the confidence of potential targets.The abuser will initially strike up a relationship by discussing apparently shared interests such as music, before attempting to arrange a meeting or elicit the child's address or mobile phone number.Last year Mark Stephens, 45, from Harlesden, north-west London, admitted sexually attacking a 14-year-old girl he met in a chatroom. A girl of 13 from Milton Keynes agreed to meet an internet friend who claimed to be 17, but turned out to be in his forties. He was arrested but not charged as no offence was committed.In 2001 a West Sussex man was jailed for three years for kidnapping a girl he met via a teen chatroom, and a 33-year-old London man posed as a 15-year-old boy to lure a 13-year-old girl to his home. He too was jailed.Many chat sites take steps to reduce the risk, monitoring conversations and offering users advice. Habbohotel.com, a relatively new chat website is monitored and advises users not to give out personal details, not to meet in real life, and not to talk to people "who make you feel uncomfortable".The government has taken steps to tackle the potential dangers, granting police forces nationally &#163;25m to target hi-tech crime, establishing the national hi-tech crime unit last year to provide a centre of expertise, and drafting legislation to outlaw grooming.Officers from the unit are thought to be assisting Cambridge police in unravelling possible clues from the girls' computers. In some instances it is possible to trace the computer used to send a message received on another machine.Gordon Stevenson, managing director of data recovery firm Vogon, whose experts helped to convict Gary Glitter and Harold Shipman, said if the girls did meet their abductor online he may have left an indelible trail."When you access the internet on a computer, it keeps track of virtually everything you do," he said. "Every event that happens in the computer will have storage details of the time and date it occurred. So if the girls had been in an internet chatroom or sent emails the computer will have details of all the messages sent and received. It will contain everything the girls saw on the screen."Mr Stevenson said that while chatrooms are run on an anonymous basis, the police would have no trouble tracing the identities behind the sign-ons."You would need the co-operation of the internet service provider, but in an investigation like this they would give all the details," he said. Many servers are based abroad, but they could be relied on to cooperate with law enforcement agencies.
Thewinnersof the 5K contest have been announced. The competition, to find the best web page that weighs less than 5K (that, for the uninitiated, is tiny) always turns up some clever, and beautifully designed, efforts. This year is no different. Commercial web page designers take note: there are people doing things here in &lt;5k that many "professional" pages can't do in more than ten times that.
An entrepreneur who claims Lloyds TSB almost drove him out of business has launched an extraordinary assault on the &#163;32bn bank, changing his firm's name to "Lloyds TSB Rip Off.com" and targeting its biggest shareholders with an email campaign.James Stewart, who runs a car importing business formerly known as Eurocar Direct, said the new name would appear in all future advertising.He has set up a website detailing savings he claims people with Lloyds TSB current accounts and mortgages can make by switching provider, also posting on the site bank staff's mobile phone numbers.Mr Stewart, who is suing the bank for almost &#163;18m over alleged overcharging, yesterday emailed details of his grievance to hundreds of individuals, including investors.He said: "I'm targeting the share price. I'm trying to do as much damage as I possibly can to their name and reputation." He claims the bank applied unfairly high charges over a two-year period. But Lloyds TSB said: "We don't accept the thrust of his allegations and consider that the issue was resolved well over a year ago."
Pretend you know all about: Tanya LingLouis Vuitton seems intent on making a trend out of using fashion illustrators for its accessory lines. Last season, Julie Verhoeven worked her fairytale magic on those patchwork satchels and now Marc Jacobs has asked illustrator-turned-designer Tanya Ling to collaborate with him on Louis Vuitton's first full jewellery collection, which is due to go on sale in October.Ling is a self-confessed "manic drawer" who left St Martins School of Art in London to work for Christian Lacroix. While she was hanging out on the Brit Art scene, friendship blossomed with Gavin Turk who hosted Ling's first solo drawing exhibition in his studio, which led to a commission from Vogue. Ling's debut womenswear collection was not only shown as a Turk installation but the whole thing was bought for the window of the New York store Henri Bendel, whose buyers also pounced on Luella, Viktor &amp; Rolf and Preen during their early days.Ling is ambitious - "I would love a shop on Bond Street" - and as she says it, you can almost hear the scribbles in her sketchbook of exactly how she would like it to look.With elegant coats and dresses based on classic staple shapes and made in luxurious fabrics such as cashmere and Harris tweed, it looks as if she is on track to turn fantasy into reality.&#183;Tanya Ling is available from Matches, London W11, 020-7221 0255Overheard: "Miss Black Pot"New nickname for former chubster Geri Halliwell after she allegedly sneered at the weight of a contestant on Popstars: The Rivals. Hang your head in shame, Halliwell (and how's the diet going?)Oversubscribed: CologneYou expect perfumes to come in dainty little bottles, but the new range from Comme des Gar&#231;ons is only available in the 500ml size (that's the height of two Kit-Kats). Being from Comme it has a complicated name - Cologne Series 4 - but the basic information is this: you're meant to splash it on, and it smells damn good.Comme intends to return to the lost art of cologne with the three scents, Vettivero, Citrico and Anbar. While most perfumes these days come with pump-action sprays, in this case the bottle top comes off and there is the scent, dangerously free to fall out into untrained hands (after a couple of spillages, we recommend holding the bottle tight against the skin so not too much falls out).Unlike some Comme fragrances which are purposely artificial (Odeur 53 intentionally had the smell of burnt rubber), the Series 4 range evokes classic scents such as vetiver, bergamot and cedarwood.It is a good year for colognes - as well as the Comme launch, Czech and Speake is celebrating 20 years of its No 88. The scent has become a classic and is well worth rediscovering, with ingredients such as sandalwood, geranium and rose otto.No 88 has become so popular that it was recently name-checked by Ozzy in an episode of MTV series The Osbournes as one of his favourite scents. Dubious praise, but still praise indeed.&#183;Series 4 is available from Comme des Garçons,59 Brook St, London W1, 020-7493 1258. For stockists of Czech and Speake call: 0800 919 728
Vodafone, the mobile phone operator, today brushed aside reports that it was delaying the launch of third generation (3G) mobile phones in the UK until next year.Vodafone insisted it had only planned to test the new services this year, not launch them. Mobile phone operators are hoping the next generation of mobiles, offering internet access and other hi-tech services, will help revive the mobile phone market at a time when sales of handsets have reached a plateau."We are opening 3G this year but will not be promoting it," the company said. "We said back in May we would be opening it but not promoting it. It depends on how you define a launch."Vodafone's statement followed a report in the Financial Times which said Vodafone was delaying the new services outside of Japan because of a shortage of suitable handsets. Vodafone's chief executive, Chris Gent, said in May that Vodafone would not be promoting 3G phones this year because it did not expect plentiful supplies of suitable handsets until the next financial year.Analysts believe existing operators such as Vodafone, Orange and mm02 will be able to persuade customers to switch to new 3G services eventually, although the new services are not expected to generate significant returns for  the next four years or so.After spending fortunes and accumulating large amounts of debt in bidding for 3G licences, mobile operators are in no hurry to rush into 3G services.   European operators have delayed launches amid technical glitches, the lack of handsets and a plunge in shares that has wiped 80% off prices since 2000.Mm02 and other mobile phone operators have said they are moving slowly in Germany, Europe's largest telecoms market, because it would be irresponsible to shareholders to fork out for a 3G network without the confidence that enough appropriate handsets will be available."They can't afford to fail, therefore prudence has prevailed," John Hayes, fund manager at F&C; Management in London, told Reuters. "But I think it's very difficult to blame the operators. New technologies tend to come in over budget and late."Meanwhile, the market is waiting for the industry's wildcard - the Hong Kong conglomerate, Hutchison Whampoa, controlled by Asia's richest man Li Ka-shing, to bridge the gap by offering 3G services. Hutchison, whose group managing director, Canning Fok, said last week he did not wish to miss the Christmas season and said Hutchinson remained on track to win 5,000-10,000 3G customers in both Britain and Italy by October.
The Conservative party today launched one of Britain's biggest ever focus groups, in a bid to understand what the youth of Britain are thinking.More than 4,000 youth organisations have been put on a mass email list by Tory central office, and have been sent detailed questionnaires asking their views on key policy issues.The move comes at a desperate time for the party,  which is believed to have less than 10,000 paid-up members under the age of 30, and which trailed both Labour and the Liberal Democrats in the youth vote at the last general election.Charles Hendry, the party's spokesman on young people, said: "This is evidence of our determination to bring as many people into our policy development process."The party will send out monthly emails to the groups, on subjects such as drug policy and youth crime. The bodies include the scouts, Barnardos and local youth groups.Mr Hendry added: "It includes national, regional and local organisations and will continue to be expanded over the coming months."We want to ensure that organisations working with young people are aware of what is happening in Westminster on the issues that affect them and also offer them every opportunity to give their ideas and expertise."We are not bringing these organisations into party politics, but rather seeking to use their expertise and understanding to ensure that we are developing policies which are both relevant and practical."Labour's most explicit attempt to woo the youth vote at the last election - a text message promise to reform licensing laws - backfired badly.The message read: "If you don't give a XXXX for closing time, vote Labour tomorrow" but the reform was not enacted after Labour's victory.
