Why do letters of the alphabet keep sending me emails? Today alone I have been contacted by an R, a C and an F, and earlier this week I received a joint  communique from A, W and S. Signing off with your name, it seems, is a thing of the past. A growing number of emailers are switching to initials, and the  single initial in particular.What exactly is the appeal  of the single initial sign off?  Well, there is the illustrious company. Those looking to spice up a boring work correspondence might secretly be imagining they work at MI6. (This is particularly satisfying if your name begins with M or a Q.) Similar thrills can be had by  pretending to be Zorro, or to  a lesser extent H from Steps.  I put this hypothesis to an  acquaintance who now identifies himself as R. He is dubious."I'd never thought about the spy-master connotation," he says. "It's probably down to laziness more than anything." But laziness this extreme ought to be paralysing, especially considering R's first name is only three letters long. If there are genuinely this many people who cannot find the will to finish a three-letter word,  it's a miracle human society can function at all. Surely no one can really be so lazy, or so busy, or have a name so long, that it saves them any measurable amount of time.No, people are not doing it because it is practical; they are doing it because it is cool. And if you are the kind of person who thinks being cool matters more than your name – that unique identifier, with a thousand years or more of history, that your parents racked their brains to bless you with –  perhaps you ought to have a long, hard think about what that says about you.T**Tom Meltzer
Google moved quickly to announce that it would stop censoring its Chinese ­service after realising dissidents were at risk from attempts to use the company's technology for political ­surveillance, according to a source with direct ­knowledge of the internet giant's most senior management.As the US  intervened in Google's challenge to Beijing, the source told the Guardian the company's decision was largely influenced by the experiences of Sergey Brin's Russian refugee background.The Google co-founder "felt this very personally", the source said. "The notion that somebody would try to turn Google's tools into tools of political surveillance was something he found deeply offensive."When it became clear that the cyber attacks were about political surveillance, people at the very top of the company "decided they no longer wanted to participate in this kind of behaviour," said the source."It was felt that whether it's censorship or whether it's surveillance or threats to people who speak out this is all about suppression of free speech and was something the company no longer felt in conscience they could stand by that."The US government urged Beijing ­yesterday to answer Google's claim of a massive hacking attack.Chinese authorities responded ­cautiously to Google's announcement. In the government's first public remarks, an official said it was ­"seeking more information". The unnamed official from China's state council information office – the cabinet spokesman's office – added: "It is still hard to say whether Google will quit China or not. Nobody knows."In the past China has attacked claims of intrusion into foreign companies by Chinese hackers as "baseless" and "irresponsible".It is thought that as many as 20 other companies including internet and mobile phone businesses were also being attacked in order to carry out political surveillance, or industrial espionage, according to the source. Google acknowledged that it might have to withdraw from China.Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, said: "We have been briefed by Google on these allegations, which raise very serious concerns and questions. We look to the Chinese government for an explanation. The ability to operate with confidence in cyberspace is critical in a modern society and economy."Google is understood to want to try to work with Beijing, according to the senior company source, who added it was "hopeful that they can accept that this is a new century, it's a new time. I don't think it's the Chinese government as a whole … but I think there are some left over elements of totalitarianism in China, be it in ­government or be it in hackers or what not. But those elements – it's time for them to go. It's time the Chinese people had unfettered access to information."In a CNBC interview, David Drummond, senior vice-president of corporate development, chief legal officer, and author of the Google announcement, said: "We are not saying one way or the other whether the attacks are state-sponsored or done with any approval of the state."We do know that it was very organised and the attack came from China and political dissidents and people interested in human rights in China were clearly targeted."Google spoke to the Chinese government yesterday but has not disclosed what form the contact took or who was involved."We have talked to the Chinese authorities and we will be talking to them more in the coming days," it said.The Google source said the company decided to move quickly once it realised what was happening because they felt "a moral obligation to the dissidents to let them know they might be at risk"."Unfortunately we could see the dark side of technology, when they tried to subvert the things we're building into tools of political suppression, which is the ultimate inverse of everything we stand for. So that was also troubling, but the connection, once we saw and understood – that's when it really hit home." News portals in China were reportedly told to downgrade coverage of the issue, but articles on several sites including the English language Xinhua site carried accounts of Google's decision, including references to censorship, but not hacking.While campaign groups such as Human Rights Watch praised the firm's decision, it received a mixed reception in Beijing, even among admirers. Several people left flowers at the entrance to its headquarters, along with a sign reading: "Google – a real man."But prominent liberal blogger, Ran Yunfei, wrote: "Google leaving China is definitely not good news." Comparing the company to dissidents who emigrate, he added: "Those who would remain are obedient citizens and [that is] satisfactory to the authorities."Isaac Mao, a Chinese blogger who in 2007 published a widely circulated open letter to the firm criticising it for self-censorship, said: " I think Google has eventually made the right decision to fight back based on their principles."When it launched google.cn in 2006, the company said it believed the benefits of increased access to information for people in China outweighed the negative impact of self-censorship. But it was widely criticizsed for the decision. http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2010/jan/13/google-china-censorship-indexGoogle has around a third of the Chinese search market, lagging far behind the domestic firm Baidu. Kaiser Kuo, a Beijing-based expert on the internet, said: "There are two schools of thought on this. One says that this is a mere smokescreen of sanctimony meant to hide a retreat from a market Google was unable to conquer for business reasons ... The other is that this is a true act of moral bravery."White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said Google had briefed the Obama administration before its China announcement. He said the president believed in the "freedom of the internet".
Google's shock announcement that it may quit China has refocused attention on internet censorship in the country and raised the issue of industrial espionage there.Most of the attention in the standoff has focused on human rights and censorship, but little attention has been paid to Google's claim that it was the victim of cyber-crime.David Drummond, the company's chief legal officer, said:In mid-December, we detected a highly sophisticated and targeted attack on our corporate infrastructure originating from China that resulted in the theft of intellectual property from Google.Someone, allegedly traced to China, broke into Google and stole corporate secrets. Furthermore, the search engine's investigation revealed they weren't alone. Drummond continued:As part of our investigation we have discovered that at least 20 other large companies from a wide range of businesses – including the internet, finance, technology, media and chemical sectors – have been similarly targeted.Google has refused to implicate the Chinese government. However, in March 2009, security researchers announced that acyber-espionage network it called GhostNethadbroken into government, corporate and private computers in 103 countries. The computers used in the attacks were almost exclusively in China.As Thomas Crampton, the Asia-Pacific director of Ogilvy PR, pointed out, Google mentioned both the GhostNet report and a public source security review by US defence firm Northup Grumman of China's "Cyber Warfare and Computer Network Exploitation". (You can download the88-page report in the PDF format and read it for yourself.)The report was written for the The US-China Economic and Security Review Commission.The US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, issued a terse statement, saying: "We look to the Chinese government for an explanation."Business senseTechnology analysts were trying to read the tea leaves to understand Google's move. Why would a company choose to walk away from one of the most important internet markets in the world? As Larry Dignan, of ZDNet, said, on the surface the decision seems to bebusiness lunacy. He then looks at reasons why Google might have made the threat:• Google needs goodwill with Western governments as concerns mount over its market dominance. (It was an explanation supported by internet political commentatorEvgeny Morozov, who said that he doubted "the sincerity of Google's threat".)• Companies rarely admit to cyber attacks, even unsuccessful ones, and Google was making a statement that ittakes security seriouslyas it hosts more and more of its users' data.• Lastly, Google doesn't have as much to lose in China today as it does in other markets.China is one of a handful of countries where Google doesn't dominate the search engine market. Homegrown search engine Baidu holds the kind of dominant position that Google enjoys in the US, Australia and most of Europe. Regardless,Google still managed to capture a third of search revenue in Chinalast summer. However, Goldman Sachs analysts estimate that the loss of Google's China earnings are likely to be "immaterial" for the company, as it's estimated to draw just about 1% of its total revenue from mainland China.But if Google pulls out of China, that doesn't mean that it won't have a virtual presence there. Even if Chinese authorities block it, getting around the Great Firewall isn't difficult for Chinese internet users who want unfiltered information.James Fallows points out in the Atlantichow easy it is for Chinese users to get what they want:In terms of information flow into China, this decision probably makes no real difference at all. Why? Anybody inside China who really wants to get to Google.com – or BBC or whatever site may be blocked for the moment – can still do so easily, by using a proxy server or buying (for under $1 a week) a VPN service.Google.com will still be available to those who want it. Regardless, Fallows was still concerned that China was entering its "Bush-Cheney era".However, the focus on the issue of human rights has masked some very real reasons why Google threw down the gauntlet. With the theft of its corporate secrets, combined with worries not only about human rights activists, but also about thesafety of its own employees in China, Google's decision starts to make more sense.Chinese nationalist responseChinese internet watchers know that criticism of the country is often met with a strong nationalistic response. The excellent China blogEastSouthWestNorth highlighted comments from Chinese bloggersand even one senior employee at China's top search engine,Baidu.Blogger Xiang Ligang called Google's decision "psychological warfare"and said that like other American companies, Google had failed to adapt to the Chinese market, failing to respect copyright and allowing people to search for pornography.Jiang Baijing at People's Net said, "Ho ho, Google is just throwing a 'hissy fit' now!" and called the search giant "the capitalists Google". In the context of the allegations of cyber-espionage, it's interesting to read between the lines of this particular post.EastSouthWestNorth also highlighted the missive posted by the "chief design officer" at Chinese search king Baidu. He called Google a profiteer and added:The tone of the top Google legal adviser disgusts me. He could have said that they are withdrawing for economic reasons, plain and simple.  Instead, they have to make themselves look good by saying that Google was attacked by Chinese people, that Gmail accounts of Chinese dissidents were attacked, and so on in order to explain why they are withdrawing from China.  This type of tone is an insult to the intelligence of the ordinary Chinese citizens. But it may just appeal to certain supercilious Westerners who have never been to China, know nothing whatsoever about China but like to criticise China all the same.Upset with negative responses, he closed comments on the post and added, "If you want to whine, go to Twitter". Twitter is one of the sites blocked by the Chinese government.The China Digital Times collected the response from Chinese users on Twitter. Unspurprisingly, the comments are broadly supportive of Google. A taste of thecomments they gathered and translated:• @qhgy RT @Lyooooo: If Google leaves I won't use Baidu or let my children or grandchildren use it (If I have them) #GoogleCN• @miyafan Now begin doing two tasks 1. Quickly use Google to search censored material 2. study how to scale the wall #GoogleCN• @mranti Withdrawal of Google means: 1 Scaling the wall is now an essential tool 2 Techies, you should immigrate. Really #GoogleCNInternational blog-watching network Global Voices said that Chinese internet users feared the country would now become a closed network. Global Voices' Bob Chen found this quote on Twitter frompzhtx:Google热榜中"天安门"上升到第一了，中国网民在送Google最后一程In the list of pop tags, "Tiananmen" rises to the first place. The Chinese netizens are saying goodbye to Google in this way.
When Spike Jonze's adaptation of Maurice Sendak's classic children's story came out late last year, many critics complained that the movie was pitched at too mature a level, appealing to adults far more than the children for whom the story was originally written.Conversely, the biggest problem with the game of Where The Wild Things Are is that it's far too squarely aimed at children. There's a pretty good game lurking somewhere in here, but everything is so clearly signposted, as if players are going to be scared off by anything challenging, that what's left is simple to the point of being aggressively dull.It's a standard 3D-platform affair with very little relationship to the plot of the film. Something mysterious is happening to the island inhabited by the Wild Things; big pools of malevolent black goo are appearing all over the place.Playing as Max, the newly crowned king, it's up to you to get to the bottom of what's going on. This mostly involves exploring the island via linear levels, and battling various over-sized insects along the way with an extremely basic, one button fighting mechanic. On each level, you're accompanied by one or more of the Wild Things, who aid your progress and occasionally need rescuing.While basically ignoring the original story, the developers have done a reasonably good job of capturing something of the tone and spirit of the film. One nice touch is allowing Max to, rather sweetly, hug the Wild Things in order to restore health. With Max's protective role over the Wild Things, coupled with a highly atmospheric soundtrack and setting, at points the game is vaguely reminiscent of Ico, although it's by no means as good as that.While it all looks very pretty, and the Wild Things themselves are brilliantly brought to life, it's so unchallenging that it's hard to muster up the enthusiasm to progress through each and every level. As movie licences go, there's admittedly far worse out there, and perhaps this would make an OK present for the pre-teen gamer in your life. For the rest of us though, it's just not worth the time, money or effort.
During yesterday's debate about the government's plans for the future of local radio in Westminster Hall in the House of Commons yesterday (already covered inMedia Guardian), Siôn Simon from Department for Culture, Media and Sport put DAB+ on the agenda, in line with Lord Carter's Digital Britain report. "We have said that all new technology should be DAB+ and future compatible so that further change is future-proofed and DAB+ is not excluded," he said*."Only 5% of the digital radio receivers currently on sale cannot receive FM. It is our intention that all digital receivers should be able to receive FM as well as complying with the World DMB profile, which will ensure that they can support other technologies to accommodate future changes. That crucial distinction has not been widely understood. When I explained it to people in the industry, it made a big difference."The World DAB Forum changed its name to WorldDMB, and the WorldDMB profile has now replaced the DAB profile as the world standard. The crucial difference is that WorldDMB Profile 1 includes support for both DAB and DAB+.For consumers, it provides an essential warning: don't buy a DAB radio that does not support WorldDMB Profile 1 and that therefore cannot handle DAB+. There are no DAB+ broadcasts in the UK at the moment, but it's likely there will be. DAB+ uses a much more efficient audio codec, and can provide more stations with better sound quality than DAB.Simon also introduced a new idea that I have not heard of before: a radio station guide that will enable listeners to pick their station without worrying about whether it is on FM, DAB, or something else. He said:"The current generation of DAB sets has tended to make that move [to a new platform] a rather sharp distinction, which has led to the fear that FM will end up being a second-class ghetto tier. To avoid that, we are committed to ensuring the implementation of a combined station guide, which is similar to an electronic programme guide, that will allow listeners to access all stations by name, irrespective of the platform. Future sets will simply have a list of station names. The listener will not distinguish between FM and digital stations, but will simply select the station by name. We are already working with the industry on that system and encouraging its development and introduction as quickly as possible. That is a crucial difference that has not been widely promulgated or understood. It means that people can stay on FM and the new sets can service the same market."The government is targeting a 2015 switchover date, so there is not much time.One of the main barriers to switchover could be lack of DAB receivers in cars. As Alistair Carmichael, a Liberal Democrat MP, pointed out:"In-car listening is currently estimated to account for about 20% of all radio listening, yet DAB is currently in fewer than 1% of all UK cars. That figure is expected to rise to just 10% by 2015. I understand that the Government have recommended that all new car radios sold in the UK by the end of 2013 should be digital, but that is just two years before the proposed switchover date."His reply came just before the session closed, when Simon said that "a relatively small and cheap piece of hardware will be available to convert in-car sets to something that works in the future as well as the present".But whatever happens, Simon seems well aware that the move to digital is creating massive problems for the UK radio industry. He said:"The total revenue of the commercial sector has fallen from £750 million in 2000 to £560 million now. At the same time, transmission costs have gone up, with stations now bearing the cost of carriage on FM, DAB, online and digital TV. A market facing such rising costs and falling revenue is unsustainable and puts the health of the entire sector under threat."Whether DAB is actually worth the cost is another issue. The most powerful broadcasters see that it gives them a controlled platform that is hard to compete against: pirate stations are not going to string up some cheap DAB multiplexes. But listeners who can get a wider choice of stations and, often, better audio quality from a range of Freeview, cable, satellite and internet radio stations may have other ideas.* Quotations from the debate are taken fromThey Work For You's website.Grant Goddard'sRadio Bloghas also covered the debate.
Google has thrown down the gauntlet to China by saying it is no longer willing to censor search results on its Chinese service.The world's leading search engine said the decision followed a cyber-attack that it believes was aimed at gathering information on Chinese human rights activists. It also cited a clampdown on the internet in China over the past year. Its statement raised the prospect of closingGoogle.cnand potentially its offices in China.The Chinese government issued its first, cautious response several hours after the announcement, saying it was "seeking more information". In a statement published via the state news agency Xinhua, an unnamed official from China's state council information office ‑ the cabinet spokesman's office ‑ added: "It is still hard to say whether Google will quit China or not. Nobody knows."The two sides spoke today. Google confirmed: "We have talked to the Chinese authorities and we will be talking to them more in the coming days."Google acknowledged that its decision to stop self-censoring "may well mean" the closure of Google.cn and its offices in China. That is an understatement, given that to launch Google.cn it had to agree to censor sensitive material, such as details of human rights groups and references to the pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square in 1989.The US government upped the stakes when it stepped into the row, with the secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, urging the Chinese to respond toGoogle's hacking claims.Google was in contact with the US state department ahead of its announcement. Department spokesman PJ Crowley said: "Every nation has an obligation, regardless of the origin of malicious cyber-activities, to keep its part of the network secure. That includes China. Every nation should criminalise malicious activities on computer networks."In a post on the officialGoogle Blog, the company outlined a "highly sophisticated and targeted" attack in December which it believes affected at least 20 other companies: "These attacks and the surveillance they have uncovered, combined with the attempts over the past year to further limit free speech on the web, have led us to conclude that we should review the feasibility of our business operations in China."We have decided we are no longer willing to continue censoring our results on Google.cn, and so over the next few weeks we will be discussing with the Chinese government the basis on which we could operate an unfiltered search engine within the law, if at all."Human Rights Watch praised the decision and urged other firms to follow suit in challenging censorship. "A trans­national attack on privacy is chilling, and Google's response sets a great example," said Arvind Ganesan, director of the group's corporations and human rights programme.In China, some websites carried accounts of Google's decision, although they did not mention the cyber-attacks. News portals were reportedly told to downgrade the issue, although the Guardian saw articles on major sites includingSina.com. But while many seemed to welcome the firm's decision ‑ some left flowers at the entrance to its Beijing headquarters ‑ others attacked it.One poster, Weiwoguyan, wrote: "Since you are in China you need to obey Chinese law … Do not use it to threaten China."A prominent liberal blogger, Ran Yunfei, wrote on his blog: "Google leaving China is definitely not good news." Comparing the decision to dissidents who choose to emigrate, he added: "Those are obedient citizens and [their choice] is satisfactory to the authorities."Google claimed the cyber-attack originated from China and that its intellectual property was stolen, but that evidence suggested a primary goal was accessing the Gmail accounts of Chinese human rights activists.Its inquiry had shown that, separately, the Gmail accounts of dozens of human rights advocates in China who are based in the US, Europe and China appeared to have been routinely accessed by third parties.The company added that it was sharing the information not just because of the security and human rights implications "but because this information goes to the heart of a much bigger global debate about freedom of speech".Acknowledging the potential consequences, it stressed: "This move was driven by our executives in the United States, without the knowledge or involvement of our employees in China."The message, headlined "A New Approach to China" and signed by David Drummond, senior vice-president of corporate development and chief legal officer, said the company launched Google.cn in 2006 in the belief that the benefits of increased access to information for people in China "outweighed our discomfort in agreeing to censor some results". At the time Google promised to monitor conditions in China and reconsider its approach if necessary.But Evgeny Morozov, an expert on the political effects of the internet and a Yahoo fellow at Georgetown University, questioned why Google had made such a decision after four years."They knew pretty well what they were getting into. Now it seems they are playing the innocence card ... It's like they thought they were dealing with the government of Switzerland and suddenly realised it was China," he said.Morozov said it was hard to see the logical connection between the security of human rights activists and Google's self-censorship, particularly given that the firm had chosen not to comment on whom it believed to be responsible for the hacking.In a CNBC interview, Drummond said: "I want to be very careful and very clear. We are not saying one way or the other whether the attacks are state sponsored or done with any approval of the state."Google has only a third of the search-engine market in China, which is dominated by the Chinese giant Baidu. Although its revenues have continued to rise, many analysts believed it was finding business hard going, particularly as it came under increased pressure from the government."There are two schools of thought on this. One says that this is a mere smokescreen of sanctimony meant to hide a retreat from a market Google was unable to conquer for business reasons … The other is that this is a true act of moral bravery," said Kaiser Kuo, a Beijing-based expert on the internet.In June, Google suffered intensive disruption to search functions and Gmail for over an hour, after authorities told it to scale back search functions.Rebecca MacKinnon, an assistant professor at the University of Hong Kong's journalism and media studies centre, said her research showed Google had censored less than Baidu. Google's decision "certainly sets an example in terms of a company trying to do what's best for the user and not just whatever increases the profit margins", she added.
Predictably, the week of the vast Consumer Electronics Show in Vegas has seen a whirlwind of hype gather around Microsoft's Natal motion control technology. It started at Microsoft's press briefing in which a late-2010 launch was announced, and it ended this weekend with Robbie Bach declaring inan interview with the Financial Postthat, "We have something like 70% or 80% of the publishers in the world already doing Natal-based games. Our first party studios are [also] very focused on this."The question is, what are they making?It seems that what Microsoft wants is a huge range of entirely new gaming experiences developed exclusively for the Natal technology. Last week, Xbox director, Aaron Greenberg,told US gaming blog Joystiqthat, "We're not looking at just adding little Natal components to games, we're looking at how do we actually bring an entirely new category of controller-free games and entertainment to the market so I think that's where we will continue to focus."But is he truly speaking for the alleged 70% or 80% of publishers currently tinkering away with their Natal dev kits? I'm not so sure.For a start, publishers are massively, obsessively risk averse. If there's any way of leveraging market pre-awareness into a new product they'll leap at it. So even if these companiesaredeveloping titles that work only on Natal - not just new games with vaguely specified Natal-support - it's unlikely that they'll do this without recourse to familiar brands and gameplay experiences. In other words, we may get a dedicated Natal version of, say, Mass Effect 3, but it'll still be Mass Effect, it's just that you'llact outthose in-depth personal relationships with aliens rather than just talking and watching the cut-scenes.But so far the only confirmed support is Fable III - an established brand that will include Natal elements. Elsewhere, Epic Games hasmentionedthat future titles will have 'some' Natal support. Just yesterday, in fact, G4TVposted snippetsfrom an interview with Capcom's VP of strategic planning and business development, Christian Svensson, who said, "I think you'll see again a brand focus on what we're doing there [on Natal], perhaps a brand we haven't seen in a while [...] We're gonna make a 'gamers game' for Natal using something amongst our brand history."Mega Man on Natal? Strider on Natal? I'm not sure that's exactly what Greenberg was hoping for. But then, it's also interesting that Capcom is talking aboutretrolicenses rather than modern day brands. During a demo of the technology at CES, lead developer, Alex Kipman, apparentlytold New Scientistthat Natal consumes 'just' 10 to 15 per cent of the Xbox's computing resources. Opinion is split on whether that's actually a vast amount, fatally hobbling any modern day franchises that wanted some Natal action, or if it's a modest portion, and that precessing power is not the key bottle neck in a modern console system. This is the exciting part of dealing only in vague pre-release hype and fanboy conjecture.Ultimately, I'm still not entirely sure I know what Natal - or of course, Sony's motion wand - really mean for the industry. We'rebeing toldthat they will extend the lifecycle of the current consoles, and that makes sense as they potentially offer entirely new experiences. What concerns me, I suppose, is that the Xbox and PS3 business models depend on a majority of these experiences coming from third-party publishers. In this difficult economic climate, does anyone have the bravery to just run with it? To invent a new genre, or massively update an old one? Or will Natal be a glorified EyeToy Play, a breeding ground for casual gaming collections?On thing's for sure, genuinely not knowing is fun - it's the excitement of a console refresh without the significant financial outlay for us gamers. Filled with uncertainty and worry and heavily guarded optimism, and dependent on the whims of massive corporations, Natal provides a very contemporary notion of expectation. This is the way life is now - even for gamers just looking for the next big thing to play.
Google does not like to talk openly about the technology behind its censored Chinese search engine, but plenty is known about how the internet giant has filtered material for the past four years.The basic system that the company uses to build its google.cn website is exactly the same as elsewhere in the world: a piece of software – known as a spider – that travels around the web, reading the pages it finds and putting them into a sprawling search index.In most countries, the spider simply collects everything it finds online and files it away in Google's vast library. But for its Chinese site, Google has very specific rules about which pages and websites it keeps in the index, and which it leaves out.The local government keeps a list of words and phrases that it has banned from local search engines, such as human rights, genocide and 4 June (the date of the Tiananmen Square massacre). The Communist party also blocks a number of swear words and sexual phrases that it believes to be "vulgar" or "harmful".But in addition to the basic list of banned terms provided by the country's internet censor – which is called the China Internet Illegal Information Reporting Centre (CIIRC) – Google also employs two other methods to screen out information likely to be deemed dangerous by the government in Beijing.First, Google can block entire websites known to carry so-called offensive content. This allows blanket bans of large sites, particularly news websites, which may carry stories and pages that trouble officials. A basic search for any content carried on the BBC, for example, is highly unlikely to turn up any results.Secondly, the company will remove specific webaddresses– single pages within a larger site – that are known to carry dangerous content. This method is used to effectively erase information from websites whose complete absence would leave a gaping hole, leaving users the impression of a fully functioning website that just has a few missing pieces.Google is far from being the only company that has worked under with self-censorship inside China. As well as homegrown companies, who must comply or be run out of business, foreign corporations such as Microsoft and Yahoo have acted to censor themselves. With the threat of intervention looming over the heads of those who fail to successfully filter out dangerous information, companies often act extremely conservatively – removing more than officials have demanded – to avoid any chance of offending the CIIRC.The benefits of this panopticon system for the Chinese government are clear, particularly since self-censorship is often even more pernicious and successful than its own attempts to filter the web.The Chinese government's own "Great Firewall" – part of the Golden Shield Project first mooted in the late 1990s – is in many respects a hit-and-miss technology. Its application is often uneven and regionalised: users in some parts of the country will find certain websites and keywords blocked, while others elsewhere may be able to access the same information without problem.But when self-censorship takes place, as it has with Google since 2006, there is no difference, no fault lines and no variations, because the questionable information simply never goes into the record.Google does tell users who conduct censored searches that they are not getting unfiltered results, with a note informing them that "in accordance with local laws and policies, some of the results have not been displayed". But because the site's rankings are determined differently, the truth is that it can be hard to find what the offending articles and pages may have been.The overall result means that whereas a Chinese visitor to google.com may find that certain pages or results simply do not load when clicked, anyone using google.cn will see a different set of sanitised answers (Google.com links to a Wikipedia page about the protests; Google.cn links to an inoffensive page that says the rumoured riots "did not happen").So while a search of Google.com produces a broken facsimile of the internet, anyone searching Google's Chinese website for information about the Tiananmen Square massacre would never know that pages had been filtered out. There are still pages of results: they will have simply been stripped of any reference to the real happenings on 4 June 1989.
Gmail, Google's free webmail offering, is now encrypted by default as a guard against hackers, the company has announced on its Gmail blog.As the company explains, "Using https helps protect data from being snooped by third parties, such as in public Wi-Fi hotspots. We initially left the choice of using it up to you because there's a downside: https can make your mail slower since encrypted data doesn't travel across the web as quickly as unencrypted data. Over the last few months, we've beenresearching the security/latency tradeoffand decided that turning https on for everyone was the right thing to do."Of course, it also has the effect of making it very much harder for people who want to break into Gmail accounts – say, government-sponsored hackers of a very large country – to do so. (A properly configured https system should be proof against man-in-the-middle attacks – although, as a security researcher showed last February,the problem is to get users to realise when they're being targeted.Gmail accounts belonging to human-rights activists were targeted by Chinese hackers – almost certainly with the approval of the Chinese government – though Google said that only certain details about the accounts, such as the subject lines of emails and the date when the accounts were created, were compromised. Other attacks in which Gmail accounts were broken into occurred when the users' computers had "malware" secretly installed on them to steal passwords and other login details.
Amazon has started taking pre-orders fora global version of the big Kindle DXebook reader, which will be released on 19 January at the same as last May's US launch price: $489 (£301). The DX will ship from the US to more than 100 countries including Australia, Hong Kong, Germany, Japan, Norway, Spain, South Africa, and the UK. A zoomablewireless coverage mapon Amazon's site shows where the device's built-in 3G/Edge/GPRS connection is supported.The Kindle DX is a much larger beast: it has a 9.7 inch E Ink screen (1200 x 824 pixels) instead of the 6 inch screen of the original Kindle ($259), whichI reviewed in October. This makes it more suitable for digital newspapers and magazines. According to Amazon, it can hold 3.500 books compared to the original's 1,500 -- it has around 3.3GB of memory -- and offers longer battery life.A lot of ebook readers were on display at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, including new Sony models and Plastic Logic's much more stylish (and much more expensive) Que. However, the Kindle DX benefits from the Amazon infrastructure: more than 400,000 ebooks can be silently downloaded from Amazon's store, and it's all too easy to pay for them.
It seems that those working at France's new internet piracy agency may have to brush up on copyright theft rules before attempting to throw the book at anyone. The agency, calledHadopi, is facing legal action over using, you guessed it, a copyrighted design for its logo. The typeface used belongs to France Telecom, owner of mobile phone network Orange. A case of pot, kettle, black in round one of the state vs pirates?
Chinese bulletin boards and microblogs have been buzzing all day with chatter about Google's announcement. The vast majority either supported Google's decision to challenge the censors or expressed regret at the possible loss of a cherished search engine, but there was also criticism of the US firm's business tactics.Here is a translation of selected posts on the Sina microblog, which is inside the Great Fire Wall:"Just heard Google may quit China. I couldn't believe it. Google has become a trusted friend. Whenever I've got a question I refer to it. You might say I grew up with Google. I hope this unexpected news is not true. If Google really gives up on the Chinese market, it will be a big loss for Chinese netizens." Celilia Jing."Google quitting China is a case of survival of the fittest. If you can't hack it, then you are knocked out. Baidu must be laughing secretly. Although they have also just been attacked by hackers, they can now have a bigger share of the cake because Google is gone." Liangjian99."Do Chinese people really need Google so much? It's only a symbol. Don't be so stupid and arouse the public feeling." Da Jiang"Google can't leave China! Since last year, I have been using so many of its products for work. How can it leave? I feel sad, but I am practical. I will try to find alternative software so that I don't need to climb over the firewall to use the English version." yaolaner."China is a country governed by the rule of law. As long as you are in China you must obey Chinese law and be supervised by the government. Do not threaten China. I think that is the bottom line and if they cannot manage that, then I won't use Google in the future. weiwoguyan.On the Twittersphere, which is available in China only to those who are willing and able to get around the Great Fire Wall, Google was widely applauded, though there was some cynicism about its business motives."Technology genius, you can never use your talent in a big intranet monitored by bureaucrats. You can only do nothing or do evil. Please go abroad, for the sake of China's future!" @mranti."Compared with Yahoo's past behaviour, such as [former Yahoo boss] Yang Zhiyuan handing over dissidents' email details, Google statement is very manly. How can anyone not love Google!" @newsinchina
Wednesday's edition of ChatterboxQuote of the moment:"I felt a bit bad to begin with, but it's not cheating if everyone can do it, and if you keep changing your viewing angle as you attack with right analogue then you are coming at them like a killer robot having a seizure."DrStatham brings terror of the Chatterbox clan to the Modern Warfare 2 public.
The US government is investigating allegations of a Chinese hacking attack on Google amid what Washington called "serious concerns" over internet security.The strike, which the company said was aimed at uncovering information linked to political dissidents in the country,led Google to announce last night that it would no longer censor its search engine in China.The move could result in Google being forced to pull out of China four years after it controversially announced its intention to launch acensored version of google.cn, the local version of its search engine.Faced with a conflict between one of America's most powerful companies and the Chinese government, the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, called on Beijing to discuss the situation."We have been briefed by Google on these allegations, which raise very serious concerns and questions," she said. "We look to the Chinese government for an explanation."Clinton, who is about to begin a tour of Asia and the Pacific, said it was important for businesses and governments around the world to be able to operate online without interference."The ability to operate with confidence in cyberspace is critical in a modern society and economy," she said.Barack Obama has called internet security a "national security priority".Clinton is expected to give a speech in Washington next week outlining new policies aimed at curbing online crime.The White House has justappointed a new head of cybersecurity, charged with improving the country's online defences, which have come under constant attack in recent years.Hackers have attacked government computersin Washington, London, Berlin and elsewhere – in what some experts say is an orchestrated campaign that is sponsored, or at least permitted to take place, by officials in Beijing.On a visit to Shanghai in November, Barack Obama said filtering information was not compatible with modern life."Unrestricted internet access is a source of strength and I think should be encouraged," he said.Google's strongly worded statement – in which it said the conflict "goes to the heart of a much bigger global debate about freedom of speech" – may push the issue further.Google's senior figures have close relations with US government officials. Its chief executive, Eric Schmidt, was an adviser for Obama's election campaign and last week he was among guests at a dinner with Clinton to discuss how technology could be used to promote democracy.The state department said it had been briefed on Google's plans but Google's head of corporate communications, Matt Furman, told the Guardian that the state department had not had any direct involvement in Google's decision to drop its censored search results.It would not be unprecedented for the US government to intervene. In June, officials in Washingtoncontacted the internet messaging service Twitterasking it to push back planned maintenance so that news from the Iranian protests could spread.
For years, security experts in the US and Europe have known that Chinese hackers sanctioned by its government have been probing the computer systems of important organisations – whether aerospace companies, science laboratories or the British parliament, which was targeted at the end of 2005. Now Google has discovered that it, too, is among the targets of those attacks.The internet giant has declared cyberwar on the world's biggest nation. Who would be brave enough to take on more than a billion people? But the method it has chosen is to flood them with the resource that is so plentiful: the world's information.It is a resource that China's population is hungrier than ever to get. News of tainted milk scandals, cover-ups over shoddy buildings that collapse in earthquakes, riots in Tibet … humans are infovores, always keen – once they have raised themselves beyond subsistence – to know more and more about the world around them.Google is saying to China's government: we have played by your rules, we censored content as you demanded, but you didn't honour your side of the bargain – you let the people who work for you attack us. Therefore we will attack you in the way that is guaranteed to undermine you: by removing censorship. The truth – or at least "unapproved" opinions – about the Dalai Lama and the Falun Gong will reach the populace. And that will only be the beginning.Can China's repressive government survive that? If it thought it could, it wouldn't block it in the first place. So the next step in the war will be that China's government will respond by kicking Google out of China. Then the war will go internal. China's millions of web surfers – more than there are in the US – are sure to notice the absence of google.cn, sure to ask, sure to enquire. The seeds of doubt will be planted.It would be easy (but almost certainly hopelessly optimistic) to think that by those actions, internet censorship will end in China. The reality is that Google is only a minority player there (with about 12% of the search market, compared to the in-country Baidu.com with 77%). Yet it will make a difference.Google has stood up to the most extreme form of cyberbullying and said: no more. This matters more because it is putting western companies and governments on notice that it is now OK to say China is a bad neighbour on the internet. Besides tolerating commercial espionage via hacking, it also allows the hosting of thousands of sites that help spammers rip people off around the world. It allows the theft of intellectual property (the complaint of Cybersitter being only the most recent). It may lead to a new maturity. China's government has been put on notice that it cannot do as it likes.It would be nice to think that the outcome might be like that imagined in 1975 by the British science fiction writer John Brunner, whose book The Shockwave Rider predated the internet but imagined it beautifully. The denouement of the book comes when a hacker writes a program that makes all information available to everyone, at once rooting out corruption, lies, misinformation and bringing down tyrants. They're sure to know the book in Mountain View. Whether it's allowed in Beijing is another matter.
Google's retreat from China comes amid an intensifying crackdown on the country's internet that has seen websites blocked, an entire region closed down and self-censorship become increasingly widespread.In the past 12 months the Great Fire Wall – China's system of restricting foreign content – has been raised to keep out Twitter and Facebook. Many other sites, such as YouTube, were already blocked.Within China censors stepped up their efforts to limit information available to an increasingly connected nation by expanding lists of taboo subjects, putting pressure on internet service providers (ISPs) and arresting several high-profile journalists and free speech campaigners who refused to toe the line.The Guardian's Chinese language service, the Weibao, was taken offline without explanation at the end of last year when the site of its translation partner, Yeeyan, was removed by its internet service provider.Last June the government attempted to install "Green Dam" censorship software in every computer that would deny access to sites with pornographic or politically sensitive content.The plan was postponed at the last minute after a backlash by Chinese netizens, computer makers and foreign governments, but the authorities are said to be still keen to introduce such a system.After riots erupted in the far western region of Xinjiang in the summer, the authorities completely shut down the internet in the capital, Urumqi, and restricted mobile phone messaging. Services were only resumed in the past month.Google, along with other companies that operate within the Great Firewall, must follow the orders of the Communist party propaganda department. Their executives meet with Chinese officials who tell them "which way the wind is blowing" on sensitive topics such as Tibet, Taiwan, Tiananmen and Falun Gong.Many website operators compile lists of terms that might get them in trouble with the authorities and filter them from their content. Almost nothing is made public, which means there is an invisible line between what is acceptable and prohibited. This results in massive self-censorship.Criticism of China's actions at the Copenhagen climate summit is thought to be off-limits. At least one website operator flags up even the word "China" because stories about the nation are potentially sensitive.Google has been criticised by the authorities and sporadic breaks in its Chinese service have been widely seen as a form of temporary punishment for failing to heed the orders of the censors. It faces unfair competition with Baidu, the local rival search engine that is far more compliant.Censorship was high on the agenda when Barack Obama made his first visit to China in November. In a town hall meeting in Shanghai the US president described himself as a as "a big supporter of non-censorship" and said criticism made him a better president."I think that the more freely information flows, the stronger the society becomes, because then citizens of countries around the world can hold their own governments accountable," Obama said. "They can begin to think for themselves."Many Chinese netizens find ways to "climb the firewall" by using proxies and VPNs to access blocked websites overseas. Some, such as the artist Ai Weiwei, rail against censorship and the sanitised domestic news offerings.The government has tried to scare off such challenges by imprisoning high-profile campaigners. The Tibetan film-maker Dhongdup Wangchen was recently jailed for six years for a critical documentary about Tibet. Liu Xiaobo was handed an 11-year sentence for instigating a campaign for constitutional reform, including greater freedom of expression. Zhao Lianhai is awaiting trial after using the internet to campaign for justice over the poisoned milk scandal of 2008.
&bull; The big news overnight was the announcement byGooglethat it isgoing to stop censoring its search results in China- in what the company says isa response to surveillance by the state. The move, which is basically giving two fingers to the authorities, could lead to it being kicked out of the country - but in any case, brings an end tofour troubled years of censorship.&bull; Initial reports from around the web suggested that the censorship was already being lifted: however, a Google spokesman confirmed to me that was definitelynotthe case. The secondary question becomes what happens next: how does this effect the work of theGlobal Network Initiative? Do Microsoft and Yahoo (and other western companies) make similar changes? How does Beijing react?&bull; Away from questions of censorship, we're finally wrapping up our coverage of theConsumer Electronics Showwith the latest episode ofTech Weekly. We're talking toPureabout their plan to expand digital radio into the US, and representatives of a UK government mission to promote British technology companies at the show.All that and more here.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Google'sdecision to lift its censorship in Chinabrings to an end four years of controversy that have left the company – and its reputation – battered and bruised.What began in 2006 as a mission to expand its reach soon attracted a firestorm of criticism and concern over Google's dedication to freedom of information.Officially, the company said it saw its entry into the Chinese market as a way to bring more freedom of information and expression to the country, and that offering Chinese citizens access to more data – even when that data was censored – was still a significant improvement.But critics and human rights campaigners were worried that the company was ditching its commitments to freedom of expression in favour of cashing in on a lucrative new market."Google's statements about respecting online privacy are the height of hypocrisy in view of its strategy in China," said Reporters Without Borders at the time, adding that Google's collusion meant that China was "becoming more and more isolated from the outside world".Google, which has the phrase "don't be evil" as its corporate motto, had been keen to press home that it would not make an immediate profit from launching in the Chinese market, but few doubted it had the potential to turn the country into its next cash cow. In terms of the sheer volume of users alone, China is now the world's biggest presence on the internet, overtaking the United States in 2008 with well over 300 million web users.The business opportunity was compelling, particularly as Google had already ceded ground to US rivals such as Microsoft and Yahoo, which had started making significant inroads into the Chinese market with their own ventures. Faced with their apparent successes, Google chose to launch in co-operation with Beijing.In fact, as part of its deal with the Chinese government, searches conducted on google.cn did not completely screen out controversial subjects such as Tiananmen Square or the Falun Gong. Instead, users were presented with results that, when censored, simply led nowhere or failed to load. That ensured that the site would always be available to users in China, and put the job of enforcing the filtering on to Google, rather than leaving it to the so-called Great Fire Wall.Despite what many saw as a golden opportunity, however, Google failed to displace its rivals. After millions pumped into operations, and constant, draining negotiations with Beijing, the company still lags behind the homegrown Chinese search engine, Baidu.com, which also censors its results on government orders.While Google's share of the Chinese market is around 29%, according to local analysts, it is still a far cry from the UK.Google's founders have admitted that the decision to launch a censored index had severely damaged its reputation."On a business level, that decision to censor … was a net negative," co-founder Sergey Brin told the World Economic Forum in Davos in 2007.His partner, Larry Page, has regularly rejected calls for the company to close down its Chinese operation. "We always consider what to do," he has said. "But I don't think we should be making decisions based on too much perception."
It's a household name in Britain, thanks to its popular digital radios. But can Pure Digital make inroads in the US, where the idea has never taken off? The company'sColin Crawfordexplains why it is time to take on America.Plus, we delve further into the chances for UK technology firms to make an impact at CES by talking to the people trying to cheerlead the nation's entrepreneurs: the chaps from UK Trade and Investment are on hand to discuss the chances for British companies to make it big.The subject is picked up by our guests,Michael BrookfromT3 magazineandTasha EichenseherofNational Geographic, who also discuss their favourite moments from this year's show and ponder what it means to be green amid this orgy of gadgets.MeanwhileScott Cawleyfinishes up his tour of the halls, before we all head away, exhausted, from Las Vegas.Don't forget to...• Comment below...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Google, the world's leading search engine, has thrown down the gauntlet to China by saying it is no longer willing to censor search results on its Chinese service.The internet giant said the decision followed a cyber attack it believes was aimed at  gathering information on Chinese human rights activists.The move follows a clampdown on the internet in China over the last year, which has seen sites and social networking services hosted overseas blocked – including Twitter, Facebook and YouTube – and the closure of many sites at home. Chinese authorities ­criticised Google for supplying "vulgar" content in results.Google acknowledged that the decision "may well mean" the closure of Google.cn and its offices in China.That is an understatement, given that it had to agree to censor sensitive material – such as details of human rights groups and references to the pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square in 1989 – to launch Google.cn.Google was in contact with the US state department before its announcement. Spokesman PJ Crowley said: "Every nation has an obligation, regardless of the origin of malicious cyber activities, to keep its part of the network secure."That includes China. Every nation should criminalise malicious activities on computer networks."In a post on the official Google Blog, the company outlined a "highly sophisticated and targeted" attack in December which it believes affected at least 20 other firms: "These attacks and the surveillance they have uncovered, combined with the attempts over the past year to further limit free speech on the web, have led us to conclude that we should review the feasibility of our business operations in China."We have decided we are no longer willing to continue censoring our results on Google.cn, and so over the next few weeks we will be discussing with the Chinese government the basis on which we could operate an unfiltered search engine within the law, if at all."Hillary Clinton stepped into the debate, urging Beijing to respond to Google's announcement.The US secretary of state said in a statement: "We have been briefed by Google on these allegations, which raise very serious concerns and questions. We look to the Chinese government for an explanation."She added: "The ability to operate with confidence in cyberspace is critical in a modern society and economy."Human Rights Watch praised the decision and urged other firms to follow suit in challenging censorship. "A transnational attack on privacy is chilling, and Google's response sets a great example," said Arvind Ganesan, director of the group's corporations and human rights programme.Google said the cyber attack originated from China and that its intellectual property was stolen, but that evidence suggested a primary goal was accessing the Gmail accounts of Chinese human rights activists.Two accounts were accessed but Google believed only account information and subject lines were obtained. It is notifying the other targeted companies and working with US authorities.Its investigation had shown that, separately, the accounts of dozens of  US-, China- and Europe-based Gmail users who are advocates of human rights in China appeared to have been routinely accessed by third parties.The company added that it was sharing the information not just because of the security and human rights implications "but because this information goes to the heart of a much bigger global debate about freedom of speech".Acknowledging the potential consequences, it stressed: "This move was driven by our executives in the United States, without the knowledge or involvement of our employees in China."The message, headlined "A New Approach to China" and signed by David Drummond, senior vice-president of corporate development and chief legal officer, said the company launched Google.cn in 2006 in the belief that the benefits of increased access to information for people in China "outweighed our discomfort in agreeing to censor some results".At the time Google promised to monitor conditions in China and reconsider its approach if necessary.But Evgeny Morozov, an expert on the political effects of the internet and a Yahoo fellow at Georgetown University, questioned why Google had made the decision after four years."They knew pretty well what they were getting into. Now it seems they are playing the innocence card ... It's like they thought they were dealing with the government of Switzerland and suddenly realised it was China," he said.Morozov said it was hard to see the logical connection between the security of human rights activists and Google's self-censorship, particularly given that the firm had chosen not to comment on whom it believed responsible for the hacking. It had become easier for "pretty much anyone" to launch cyber attacks in the last few years, he added.He added that it could have been damaging for Google if news of the breach had emerged later and it appeared the company had done nothing.Google has only a third of the search-engine market in China, which is dominated by the Chinese giant Baidu. Although its revenues have continued to rise, many analysts believed it was finding business hard going. In June Google suffered intensive disruption to search functions and Gmail for over an hour, after authorities told it to scale back search functions.China has the world's largest internet population.Rebecca MacKinnon, an assistant professor at the University of Hong Kong's Journalism and Media Studies Centre, said her research showed Google had censored less than Baidu. Google's decision "certainly sets an example in terms of a company trying to do what's best for the user and not just whatever increases the profit margins", she added.Nart Villeneuve, research fellow at the University of Toronto's Citizen Lab – which examines the exercise of political power in cyberspace – said the decision to give such a full account of the attacks and link it to human rights issues was unprecedented.Google's decision to launch the censored service was highly controversial at the time. It was attacked by campaigners and accused of "sickening collaboration" in a Congressional hearing.The Chinese Foreign Ministry referred the Guardian to the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. But an employee at MIIT said it was not responsible for handling the query, because it dealt with only the technical side of internet issues. He added that many other departments dealt with other aspects of internet management, but added that he did not know who the Guardian should contact in this instance.
TheOfficial Google Blogand theOfficial Google Docs Bloghave announced 1GB of free online storage for files that you are not obliged to convert it into one of the not-quite-Office-compatible Google Docs formats (ie Google documents, spreadsheets, and presentations). This is a miserly amount of space -- it's what Gmail offered at launch, and pathetic compared to the 25GB that Microsoft has been offering with its Windows Live SkyDrive -- but Google says "you can buy additional storage for $0.25 per GB per year", or $3.50 per GB per year for premium users.Google's offering lacks either the capacity or the features of the DropBox service, which provides 2GB of space plus synchronisation, and there are plenty of alternatives such as Mozy, Sugarsync and Wuala. As mentioned on theGoogle Enterprise Blog, you can get your Google Docs storage synced separately viaMemeo Connect, and backed up viaSyncplicity, if you're a paying user. But it still looks a long way from being thefabled Gdrive, whateverTechCrunchsays.Since Google has been offering online storage with Google Docs and Picasa (andGoogle Storage) for some time, it's not clear why it's now entering the field with a market-trailing service.However, a bit of speculation suggests the following. First, as Google says, you will be able to share files that Google Docs can't handle, presumably including avi and MP3. That is clearly useful. Second, Google Docs can be a problem for companies sharing Microsoft Office files, because the features you lose when you convert to Google's formats you can never get back. Google Docs storage will now let people share those files.And third…. Google is planning to launchChromeOS, where computers run a Chrome browser but have no permanent local storage: everything is done "in the cloud". Google probably does not plan to tell those folks to go somewhere else to store their files, so at that point it will need an online storage offering.However, don't take Google's suggestion -- "You might even be able to replace the USB drive you reserved for those files that are too big to send over email." -- too literally.Yes, it's true, you might, if you've somehow failed to notice the odd dozen fast file-sharing services such as RapidShare, MegaUpload and YouSendIt. But if you only have one copy of data, you have no backup and could lose it at any second. This might happen sooner than Google going bust or disappearing into a hole in the ground (if another Great Quake hits California), because your Google account can be hacked or else Google can decide to terminate your ID for whatever reasons.This also applies, of course, to Microsoft, Yahoo (including Flickr), and every other online storage and service provider.So whichever online apps you use, you should also keep copies of all your data files either on your local hard drive, on CD/DVD or on a USB thumb drive, and for preference, all three. Emailing them via Gmail also works.
There are few things in life more satisfying than finishing a long, difficult book. The payoff, both in reaching the conclusion of the narrative, and the sense of accomplishment at having fulfilled such a large commitment, can be immense. It would be remiss of me to brag about the heavyweight titles I've ticked off over the past few years, but my most recent undertaking was probably one of the most rewarding things I did all last year. Especially as it was mostly about whales.And so, it was once the case with video games. Particularly before the advent of 'saving', the completion of even a simple game could take huge amounts of patience, effort and time. The ending, like those last pages of a book, was a key reason why we started playing in the first place. Sure, multiplayer and arcade style games still had their place, but fond 8, 16 and 32-bit memories consist more of completion and satisfaction than particular levels or tricky moments.Over the past few years, however, the idea of a game as simply something to 'finish' has shifted somewhat.  For starters, the availability of downloadable content means no story need ever end, as long as the makers think there's a paying audience. Also, the ubiquity of broadband means multiplayer gaming is now the standard, not the exception it once was. There is no real 'finish' to most MMORPGs.Whereas once the only reason I wouldn't complete a game would be because it was too hard, now small piles of games lie scattered around my television unloved. They will never be finished. Bioshock. Assassin's Creed. Super Mario Galaxy. I even lost interest in Dragon Age, which captivated my imagination for a good three to four weeks. What incentive is there?  The fact that I have more games available to me, and more of a higher quality, than I did as a child is certainly a mitigating factor. But is it just me that doesn't care whether or not I 'complete' a game anymore?Taking Modern Warfare 2 as an example, what does it even mean to 'finish' the game? To complete the narrative 'For the Record' campaign? How about to complete it on the hardest setting? Or perhaps it should be to get 100% in all the different game modes? But then what about Prestige mode, and all that entails?Remember some of the classic game endings from the days of gaming yore onthis list. How many releases from the current generation of consoles would make it on there? Are endings something today's gamers care about?Games have become so huge, that even story-led titles need scores of subplots and diversions to keep things interesting. It seems nowadays developers are stuck between a rock and a hard place - make a single, satisfying narrative and the game will be accused of being too short. Make something sprawling and huge, and any sense of momentum of the primary narrative is completely lost.The cutscenes that rewarded finishing Fallout 3 and GTA 4 - two games I did actually manage to complete - were scant reward for the hours of time invested. The satisfaction felt paled in comparison to that with the games of my childhood. Has the great ending been consigned to gaming history's dustbin?
Porn starRon Jeremycaused a stir in The Great Porn Debate at the Consumer Electronics Show last week by saying that studies have found that "violent video games are a much bigger negative influence on kids".CES at the Las Vegas Convention Centre coincides with the AVN Adult Entertainment Expo at the Venetian hotel. In this case, Jeremy was also promoting tools that help parents control their children's access to undesirable content. He said: "Because we make porn, we are the bad guys. We don't want kids to watch porn but yes we recognise that it happens. We are not in favour of that," reportsBBC News.The porn industry is keen on products such as InternetSafety.com's Safe Eyes as a way of making content inaccessible to those under 18. This is a problem because of the amount of "adult" material that is now widely available. "The Internet has changed the game completely,"said Craig Gross, the activist debating (not for the first time) against Jeremy. "What we used to have to work hard to find, you now have to work hard to avoid."Presumably, this ubiquity is not good for the porn business, which sees its products widely pirated. In a blog post, theBBC reporter Maggie Shielssaid Jeremy "heaped further scorn on the net because, he said, it is putting his industry out of business":"People can download stuff for free these days, so why the heck are they going to buy it? The only ones making money out of porn are the novelty companies. I just hate the internet in general."Jeremy also offered views similar to those of Nicholas Carr, a former editor of the Harvard Business Review, who suggested thatGoogle is making us stupid. Sheils quotes Jeremy saying:"I am a former school teacher, I have a masters degree and two BAs, and I think the internet is making people stupid."It's good because you can research any topic. In my day, we went to the encyclopedia for that. Nowadays, though, kids can't memorise anything. No dates, no times tables, no history. If there is anything you need to know, you just press a few buttons. We could be giving rise to a generation of idiots."Games companies also have problems with internet piracy though violent games are perhaps not as visible online. Like the porn industry, the games industry has ratings systems that are intended to keep unsuitable material out of reach of minors. However, it also has a perception problem: computer and video games are often considered as being "for kids" even though most players are adults, whereas pornography is considered unsuitable for children. There may be cases where adults allow children to play 18-rated violent games when they would immediately stop them from watching pornography.But whether violent video games are actually a much bigger negative influence than pornography is another matter. The influence of both types of material has been argued at length, and Jeremy didn't provide any reference sources for his observation.
Rebooting and reimagining classic childhood characters is common in today's media marketplace. The big danger is the chance that something we loved as a kid won't cut the mustard when we take off our rose-tinted reminiscing glasses.Japan's iconic Astroboy has had a 2010 makeover, with a movie and tie-in game; however, his latest foray into the console world is somewhat lacking, and no amount of retro love can make up for its faults.Perhaps we're too spoilt these days, but its look and feel would have been considered average if released back when the PS2 was top dog. But in today's environment, the game looks extremely low budget. Poor cut scenes skim over a basic storyline simply put in place to link levels, which at first could be considered "retro cool" but soon become repetitive.The gameplay consists of 2D scrolling levels set in Metro City, focusing on beat- and shoot-em-up combat with occasional platform action thrown in. You can move freely around the screen but are often stopped in your tracks by invisible walls preventing you from moving on until you have beaten down all on-screen enemies. As they are damaged they release collectable energy that allows you to perform special attacks – great for when you tire of punching or scissor kicking the baddies into annihilation.You have four super abilities to choose from – including Astroboy's butt cannon, which temporarily freezes opponents and destroys any missiles heading your way. Rather than having a finite number of lives you instead have a health bar, replenishable through a special ability. Therefore the challenge is weighing up when to use special attacks or heal in order to survive each level. For a short while Astroboy can be entertaining arcade fun, but even with its mix of ground, platform, air and boss fights, it doesn't take long for the feeling of déjà vu to kick in.Playing through the story mode on co-op might make it a little more entertaining, but its arena combat mode is simply more of the same and adds little to the experience. Both gameplay and graphics appear more suited to its handheld formats. When played on a home console its attraction is short lived, making it more of a rental than purchase consideration.
The chairman of the company that has won an injunction preventing Microsoft from selling Word 2007 because of patent infringement says he will not license the technology to the company – and has not ruled out going after any other products that infringe its XML patent.And in an exclusive interview with the Guardian, Loudon Owen, chairman since 1996 ofi4i Inc, a 30-strong company based in Toronto, Canada, said that his aim is for the company to "become the Oracle of unstructured data" – and strongly rebuffed claims that the lawsuit against Microsoft was a case of "patent trolling".i4i, set up in 1993 by Michel Vulpe, has provided systems for the US Patent Office ("ironic, in the circumstances" remarked Owen), US Air Force and a number of pharmaceutical companies including Novo Nordisk and Bayer. Basically it takes huge amounts of unstructured data and puts XML wrappers around it, making it useful and usable.The injunction against Microsoft, first in a jury trial and then confirmed in an appeal before judges, means that the company cannot sell its Word 2007 product from its online store because it was found to have infringed i4i's patent on custom XML. i4i was granted a patent on the use of custom XML in 1998.Some people have asserted that i4i was patent trolling – suing and extracting large sums of money from companies that accidentally infringe its intellectual property – because it filed the suit in the courts of Tyler, a city in Texas.But Owen says that is not the case at all and points out that the judges found that Microsoft "wilfully" infringed the patent. It turns out that the two companies are not strangers.Back in 2000 or so, says Owen, i4i was heading towards its largest-ever size, with about 150 staff. (None of them lawyers; then, as now, the company would hire outside legal help if needed.) Owen had in the 1990s been on the board ofSatImageSoftimage, a small company at the forefront of animation – which Microsoft bought. Then in 2000-01, Microsoft and i4i began talking about XML, and custom XML. "We had extensive dealings with Microsoft over the course of several years about the possibility of working together," Owen told me.But that came to naught. Then in 2001 Microsoft began talking publicly about including XML schemas in forthcoming versions of Word. In 2002 betas of the Word 2003 program were released publicly. The next year, Word 2003 – including custom XML schema systems – came out. And i4i's business started to shrink."This isn't something that suddenly showed up on our screens," says Owen. "The first court found, and the court of appeal found, that the infringement was wilful."(At this point long-time Microsoft watchers may be getting distant ringing bell sounds in their head. Microsoft including other companies' technologies in a patent-infringing manner? Sounds likeStac Electronics– "Stac executives were outraged, as Microsoft had previously been in discussions with Stac to license its compression technology". Or theExcel-Access case: "He said he tried to sell this technology to Microsoft in 1992 but they turned him down. According to Amado, Microsoft started including his software in their releases between 1995 and 2002." Or maybeEolas. Stories of Microsoft approaching companies, getting close and then mysteriously producing just the same thing are legion. I asked Owen whether he had read Charles Ferguson's 'High St@kes, No Prisoners', which relates life in a startup that is close to being acquired – or will it just be steamrollered? – by Microsoft. He hadn't, but it all sounded familiar to him.)Although Microsoft is now considering appeals to the US Supreme Court, and to the federal circuit of appeals, the reality is that i4i has won every round so far. Which brings us to Texas: why Texas? And why Tyler? "We flew all over the US and the company of lawyers we settled on were based in Dallas. As to why file in Tyler, well, what people don't know about Tyler is that the judges there are excellent. They have a deep interest and commitment to patents."Er – but you would say that, wouldn't you, having just won a world-shaking case? "If anybody thinks it's easy to get a jury, then a judge, then court of appeals judges to agree unanimously that they're in favour of your claim … it's not easy, not easy at all." And, he points out, Tyler isn't used for patent claims only by small companies such as his: Samsung, IBM, Microsoft and Oracle have all filed patent lawsuits there."There's no single court in the US that has an absolute right to hear these cases. There's a limited number that have the expertise to hear them though. It was a surprise to me as well," Owen says.Having now won victory, what does i4i want next? Will it license its patent to Microsoft, perhaps at a hefty fee? And will it go after Sun, distributors of OpenOffice, for the ODF file format,as eWeek suggested?On licensing to Microsoft, Owen sounds on the edge of anger: "No. No. This is our property. We are going to build our business. There's no right for Microsoft to use it and go forward." But i4i could license it at some humungous, eye-watering price that Microsoft might have to pay, surely? No, says Owen."We want to sell it to the customers. We don't want Microsoft selling it to the customers. We're excited about building a tremendous company. We can license third parties if we want to. But our objective is to solve the conundrums of all this unstructured data that's out there."What about ODF and OpenOffice? Owen declined to comment. (If he were to suggest that ODF infringes the patent and were wrong, Sun could sue for defamation; if he were to suggest it doesn't, that wouldn't help any case that i4i might file.) OpenOffice users, or more specifically Sun, will have to wait and see.i4i is profitable, he says, though it's a private company which hasn't released its revenue figures. As to the whispers – still on "patent trolling" questions – about investments by two companies, McLean Watson Capital Inc and Northwater Intellectual Property Fund, Owen says that the first is his own company – and has invested in i4i since 1996, after he met Vulpe in a coffee shop in Toronto – and that the second is a company that has capital and "expertise in patent monetisation". The investment from Northwater was because the company had shrunk since 2001 from 150-odd to 30-odd staff, "and we needed some help." But, he says, "that doesn't make us patent trolls. Those are non-practising entities who just try to make a return on patents. It's a very, very different situation here."(Bonus reading, just for fun: an article fromtheGuardianObserver from 2000, imagining where Microsoft would be in 2010. The interesting question to answer: why didn't it all turn out like that?)Update:If you want a longer read, including all the personalities at i4i, have a read of theToronoto Globe and Mail's interview from September 2009, which also explains neatly how i4i's system works:"At issue is U.S. Patent No. 5,787,449 - "Method and system for manipulating the architecture and the content of a document separately from each other." That isn't a bad title. (The formal company name is pretty transparent too: Infrastructures for Information.) i4i's software allows users to customize the extensible markup language (XML) code embedded in documents - code that tags the information within, and which, with i4i's software, can be used to search through and alter a database without delving into each document."
Email overload has become a severe problem. In fact, in the past couple of years the problem has become so immense that the internet itself got overloaded with tips on how to get rid of it.Within easy reach, for example, are at leastfive ways of dealing with email overload, six tips for reducing email overload, 12 steps to getting control of your email inbox,or the secret to dealing with email overload, apart from several startup companies devoted to delivering a program that helps you manage your email.Yes, it is official: email is hell, especially when workers return from their holidays.In fact, email has killed holidays for some employees in their former sense – the sense of forgetting about work. These days, instead of clearing the mind of work during holidays, it is easy for people to succumb to the temptation to reach for the BlackBerry or laptop and clear out the inbox, to avoid having hundreds of emails on their the return to work.A former boss had the trick of simply not looking at the mail that was sent while he was away. He always said that if the mail was important, it would be re-sent. However, not everybody is a boss. And now there might be hope for the rest of us.Enter Twitter and Facebook, which may lead us out of our misery.At first sight, Twitter and Facebook seem to confront us with more information, not less. However, there is an important cultural difference: email never managed to entirely distance itself from its associations with the traditional "snail mail" letter.New email did the work of the old mail – but unfortunately betterCertain aspects of email were always handled with a similar cultural approach as to letters, especially reading them. A delivered letter was a delivered message. The world didn't care if you refused to open your bills, divorce papers, or birthday cards. The message was delivered, therefore the message was valid.This culture of posting was passed from the old media letter to the new media email. What happened was whatthe Canadian communication theorist Marshall McLuhanfamously once described: "In the name of progress, our official culture is striving to force the new media to do the work of the old."And we gave in to that force, and started to deal with emails as if they were letters: they had to be opened and read. Only there was a lot more of them, and most of them were not as important as divorce papers, bills or even birthday cards. However, people expected you to read the emails, and being afraid to miss out on birthday wishes, we all obeyed.There seemed to be nothing to stop the flood of email. While physical mail is often expensive to send out, cheap, fast and direct email is easy to use. Always. Whenever. By anyone. Emails – and spam, in particular – have proliferated like an animal that has no natural enemies.While sending a letter was once a private act, sending an email has became  a cut-copy-multiple-recipient-mass-mailout. This is where Facebook and Twitter can be a relief, as their cultural habit of dealing with a message is fundamentally different.You don't have to keep up with messages on Twitter and FacebookThanks to social media, the privacy of a message has been reintroduced. Tweets and status updates might tell everyone how you feel, but nobody feels obliged to keep track of them all. What a relief!So if you decide, for example, not to use Twitter during your holiday for fear your significant other confronts you with a screaming fit, you can come back home, open Twitter and ... you have to keep up with nothing. Life can be so easy. After your holiday, you simply come back and start all over as if nothing has happened.You don't have to read all the tweets or status updates you missed, because you never had to read any tweets or status updates at all in the first place. You might have a look at your "mentions" in Twitter, because managing your reputation is part of work these days, but that's about it.Facebook and Twitter have cleaned up the email mess. While it may look, at first glance, as if these systems steal a lot of your time with irrelevant information, they are actually doing the opposite.Furthermore, since you can only get direct messages from people or accounts that you find interesting and decide to add or follow, both systems constrain the numbers of possible senders. Twitter will only forward a message from a person you follow, and the new privacy settings on Facebook allow you to only get messages from friends.Spamming? Once again impossible, or at least embarrassing. Think of the endless times you tried in vain to get off an email list. On Facebook or Twitter, no one will ever spam you, and if so they will have to do it in public, and you can simply unfollow or unfriend or block that account.Do we want the barrier of social introduction back?Sure, being able to contact someone will become a bit harder. It will be like in the old days, where people were only able to talk to each other after being introduced. Again, you'll have to ask friends to make a contact, or establish it by mention @her or @him on Twitter.In that way, your friends and followers will become the effective spam filter we always waited for. In fact,Yahoo Mail just introduced the featureto highlight email from your friends – and tells you with it forget about the rest.Years agoMarshall McLuhanwrote the sentence: "One of the effects of living with electric information is that we live habitually in a state of information overload. There's always more than you can cope with." Social media finally seems to take that into account. Yes, please, save me from my email.Will email survive till 2020? And how do you handle email? Please, share your thoughts with us in the comments.
While webcams are now built into many laptops, netbooks and even flat panel screens, many desktop computers and a fair few laptops still require a standalone webcam.It's a crowded market with webcams from Creative, Logitech, Microsoft and Hercules.French company Guillemotmakes gaming accessories under the Thrustmaster brand and Wi-Fi products, speakers and other computer accessories – including webcams – under the Hercules brand.TheDualpix EmotionfromHerculesboasts a 1.3-megapixel (MP) CMOS sensor. It can take 5MP interpolated stills pictures. Like many webcams, it has face-tracking so can keep your face framed as you move about in front of the camera.To stand out from the crowd, the Dualpix Emotion offers a software suite that will add effects to your video, such as inverting the image or adding fiery trails.The webcam also includes Hercules' Xtra Controller Ex software that allows you to add a slideshow of images to video chat, and the included software makes it easy to upload captured video to YouTube.The bracket held the webcam securely to the top of my laptop screen and adjusted easily to fit to the top of the flat-panel screen on my desktop.The webcam is compatible with Windows XP, Windows Vista and Windows 7. I found installing the webcam on a Windows 7 computer was a snap. The included driver works well without an update. The software suite is stable, which isn't always the case with cheaper webcams.The webcam isn't Skype certified, but it does work with Skype and work well.The face-tracking is responsive, and the webcam has a feature to compensate for strongly backlit rooms, which worked very well. The still images are crisp and well balanced. I did find that at higher resolutions, the video suffered from some ghosting.At £49.99, it's more expensive than many other webcams from Hercules and its competitors.It's a stylish and capable webcam with a good software package. If you do video chatting often and want a higher spec camera with a comprehensive software suite, the Dualpix Emotion is a good choice.Pros:Easy setup with a full software suite.Cons:Pricier than many webcams and suffers from ghosting when recording higher resolution video.Hercules.com
Hackers calling themselves the "Iranian Cyber Army" paralysed China's biggest search engine this morning, sparking a bizarre online battle as Chinese hackers apparently retaliated by targeting Iranian sites.Last month thegroup attacked Twitter, which has been used by Iranian opposition supporters. But Beijing and Tehran are allies and it was not immediately obvious why hackers targetedBaidu, which commands over 60% of the search market in China.Some Chinese internet users speculated that it might be in retaliation against Chinese Twitter users who have used a #CN4Iran hashtag to express their support for reformists. Although Twitter isblocked in China, it is used by several thousand people there through proxies orvirtual private networks (VPN)."It's the same warning showed to twitter.com … but I'm not very sure how you would connect this to #CN4Iran. Baidu is a very weird choice," said Michael Anti, an influential Chinese blogger.The search engine is widely regarded as having good relations with the Beijing government and has never been associated with sensitive content. That led other internet users to speculate that foreign hackers were attempting to discredit Iran.China's state-run People's Daily website reported that Baidu's website began redirecting to a site attributed to the Iranian Cyber Army at around 8am (midnight GMT). The People's Daily site published a screen grab showing a message reading "This site has been hacked by the Iranian Cyber Army", alongside a picture of the Iranian flag.Other users said they could not open the Baidu site, but it was back up and running by around 11.30am. In a statement, the company said: "Services on Baidu's main website www.baidu.com were interrupted today due to external manipulation of its DNS (Domain Name Server) in the US. Baidu has been resolving this issue and the majority of services have been restored."As news of the attack spread, other hackers targeted Iranian websites.On the room98.ir website, beneath a large Chinese flag, a message from the "Chinese Honker Team" read: "This morning your Iranian Cyber Army intrusion [sic] our baidu.com … Please tell your so-called Iranian Cyber Army … Don't intrusion Chinese website about the United States authorities to intervene the internal affairs of Iran's response … This is a warning!"A message on the iribu.ir website read: "The People's Republic of China long live … Oppose splitting Safeguarding unity."Other targets reportedly included the website of a national wrestling team."They seem to be choosing them randomly – the content is in Farsi, so they don't necessarily know what they are," said Anti.Although the message left on Twitter by the Iranian Cyber Army suggested it was sympathetic to the government,experts told Reuters last monththat it was unlikely Tehran was involved.
Nintendo has revealed a new fitness gimmick to accompany the European release of Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version in March. The latest games in the massively successful series will come packaged with the Pokéwalker - a pedometer that interacts with the Nintendo DS via infrared. Players can transfer any of their Pokémon into the Pokéwalker and then train them by taking them foran actual walk. From the press release:The Pokéwalker counts the number of steps you take in the real world as you walk with it, using these to earn vital experience points while strengthening the bond between you and your Pokémon. The more steps you take in the real world, the more Watts are gained. Watts are used within the Pokéwalker to encounter and catch wild Pokémon using the Poké Radar or to search for hidden items using the Dowsing Machine, which can then be transferred into Pokémon HeartGold Version and Pokémon SoulSilver Version.Apparently, you can match your wander to the shops with an in-game route - perhaps a jaunt through the plains or along the coast. Each route has different wild Pokémon to find and grab, and some special Pokémon can only be found within certain routes. And to ensure you recruit friends to your Pokémon-based fitness drive, users can create an infrared connection between two Pokéwalkers, receiving a game item as a gift.Of course, this is a transparent attempt to allay parental (and media) fears about the sedentary lifestyles of our technology-obsessed children. But it's an amusing real-world implementation nonetheless, and reminds me of Konami's Game Boy Advance RPG, Bokura no Taiyou, which came with a light sensor that meant certain in-game interactions would only take place if you played outside in the sun. The next evolution is a game that comes with some bathroom scales - "You cannot access level two until you lose 10 pounds..."Can you think of any other game series' that would benefit from a pedometer?
Despite the recession, this year's Consumer Electronics Show was still big: very, very big. More new exhibitors turned up than ever before, visitor numbers were good, and the taxi drivers in Las Vegas said it was busier than they expected. Just like every year, the showfloor went on forever - and after what seemed an eternity of walking the halls, I'm home - and extremely glad to be done.Regardless of the gigantic displays and vast number of companies in attendance, though, it still felt a little underwhelming. Even with a bit of distance, I can't think of too many standout technologies on display, and I've already explained my thoughts about the expo'soften laughable green push. Still, there were serious pushes for some technologies that might make be fixtures in our lives in coming years: 3DTV, ebooks, netbooks and so on.But the lack of big winners doesn't mean that there wasn't a lot to learn: so here are the lessons I'm taking away with me.You don't have to be at CES to be at CESI've said it already, but the biggest success story at the show was the one company that never makes an appearance. Steve Jobs wasn't here, but he exerted an influence far beyond anything . Will it release an iPad device later this month? Probably. Do we know what it's going to be like? Not really. Did that stop dozens and dozens of companies trying to get in on the act? No. As Andy Inahtko, the author and journalist,suggests, the threat of Apple was enough to send companies like Microsoft (and therefore everyone who relies on Microsoft) into a panic.Don't underestimate AndroidGoogle's decision tolaunch its own branded phonethe day before the conference might have set the show off on a strange note, but it wasn't just about theNexus One. The halls were stuffed with Android devices, from asmartbook produced by HPto the slightly oddAlex e-reader. Not all the gadgets are there just yet, but it's clear that manufacturers like the idea. And with Google's Chrome operating system due later this year, the internet giant is really starting to stake out its territory.There's still room for the little guyThe show is, unsurprisingly, dominated by the big companies. Microsoftopens proceedings. Sonygets plenty of coverage. The likes of Intel, Samsung, LG, Panasonic and others still get the lion's share of coverage and the majority of the crowds turn up at the show's central hall - where most of the big firms dwell. But that doesn't mean that the smaller companies can't make an impact.Parrot proved a surprise hit with their AR Drone, and among the herd of ereaders, thePlastic Logic Quereally impressed me. Yes, it's a little tedious to look through row upon row of iPod cases - but there are genuinely interesting ideas needled away in the haystack.Next year, I hear, the show plans to spread the big companies out around the halls, rather than have most of them concentrated in one place. Will that encourage more innovation? Almost certainly not, but it will at least get more eyeballs on the interesting smaller things. Still, I'm interested to find out how these trends pan out over the next year. Given the blisters on my feet and the general air of exhaustion, I can't believe I'm going to say this - but roll on CES 2011.
AOL has moved to shut down many of its European offices after failing to reach a target of cutting a third of its worldwide workforce through voluntary redundancy.The UK operation would see a "significant reduction" in staff numbers, the company said. It announced plans in November to cut 2,500 jobs across the world, with the aim of saving $300m a year, and about 1,100 employees have taken voluntary redundancy. More than 1,000 further job cuts  are expected across the US and Europe."We will be significantly reducing our UK staff, but will continue to have a robust advertising operation as well as a consumer offering," an AOL spokesman said in a statement. "Ireland will remain a core technology development centre for the company. Both the UK and Ireland were part of the voluntary separation programme we ran late last year. Regarding Bebo, it continues to be part of AOL Ventures."AOL UK would not give a total employee count or the number it expects to cut.The company said that meetings were held across its European operation yesterday about cutbacks and the closure of "many" offices, starting with those in Spain and Sweden. Four German offices will close, in Hamburg, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt and Munich. In France the company has considered a number of options and intends to consult on closing its Paris office.The AOL spokesman stressed that successful operations, such as the advertising business AdTech, would continue to have offices in Europe.In the USA the company said that it would "begin notifying a limited number of individuals impacted by the involuntary lay-off ... with the majority of notifications taking place in the USA on 13 January."For many of the employees impacted in the USA Wednesday will be their last day in the office," the company said.AOL also said that it was closing its Seattle office, home of some of its mobile operations, with the mobile division to be centralised in California.AOl has said that the restructuring programme will see it take a $200m charge this year."We have looked at every aspect of this business," said a spokesman for AOL. "We evaluated our competitive position and product portfolio in every market, and we asked the hard questions about areas that were no longer core to the strategy and our profit profiles in the businesses and countries where we operate."The company had approximately 6,900 employees before the restructuring, of whom about 4,500 were in the US.  AOL was spun off from its former parent group, Time Warner, in December.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; No sooner has CES shut up shop for another year than a sudden flurry ofApplerumours have started doing the rounds - spurred on bycomments by one of the most high-ranking France Telecom executivesin which heappeared to confirma forthcoming tablet. True? A bluff from Orange? Misinterpretation? Lost in translation? The company's now saying it's just been misread, but itwould not be the first timethey'd let an Apple secret out of the bag.&bull; As we've reported, today is the start of theinjunction to stop sales of Word- somethingMicrosoftis still trying to overturn. Meanwhile, Mary Jo Foley points out thatthe company has started a system that allows clients to rent (not) buy Windows and Office. More to come.&bull; Last up today, some grim news. Back in November,AOLannounced that it wasslashing 2,500 jobs worldwide. Now the layoffs have started - and reports suggestthat most staff will get notified by Wednesday.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
ComputerWorldnotes that most versions of Microsoft Office disappeared from Microsoft's online store in the US yesterday (Monday) as the injunction against the use of Custom XML came into effect. Last year, i4i (Infrastructures For Information), a small Toronto software house, won a court case against Microsoft after claiming that functions in Microsoft Word infringed on its patent. The injunction now prevents Microsoft from selling copies of Word in the US that include the infringing technology.Microsoft said it has been preparing for this eventualitysince the jury verdict went against it on 11 August, and had "put the wheels in motion to remove this little-used feature from these products. Therefore, we expect to have copies of Microsoft Word 2007 and Office 2007, with this feature removed, available for U.S. sale and distribution by the injunction date."It had also sent its OEM partners a2007 Microsoft Office Supplement Release (October 2009)- "Required Word 2007 Update" (12.9MB) saying; "All new PCs built on or after January 11, 2010, in the United States must have this patch." The patch strips out the Custom XML feature.The injunction does not apply to copies of Word that are already in use.It's not clear what effect the injunction will have on sales of Microsoft Word. Microsoft's note on the OEM partner release says:"The ability to handle custom XML markup is typically used in association with automated server based processing of Word documents. Custom XML is not typically used by most end users of Word."It could affect some corporate Office users if they have started using the new Office file formats -- in this case, docx -- and if they do server-based processing of these docx files using custom XML (ie they have created and defined their own tags using Extensible Markup Language). But it's not clear how anyone would know how many companies this affects.Microsoft's current attitude may appear somewhat at odds with the statements made by its lawyers (PDFatTechFlash) when they appealed the injunction:"If left undisturbed, the district court's injunction will inflict irreparable harm on Microsoft by potentially keeping the centerpiece of its product line out of the market for months. The injunction would block the distribution not only of Word but also of the entire Office suite, which contains Word and other popular programs."But the legal battle is not over yet.ComputerWorld notes:"Now Microsoft is asking the panel of judges primarily to reconsider the way that the damages figure was determined. 'The petition details significant conflicts we believe the December 22 decision creates with established precedents governing trial procedure and the determination of damages, and we are concerned that the decision weakens judges' authority to apply appropriate safeguards in future patent trials,' said Kevin Kutz, director of public affairs for Microsoft, in a statement."As I pointed out here whenreporting the original decisionin August, i4i won its case in "the patent-friendly US District Court of Eastern Texas". I also noted that:"In this case, the winners included McLean Watson Capital Inc, from Toronto, and the Northwater Intellectual Property Fund, which "acquired a stake in i4i and helped fund the case against Microsoft."Whether i4i and its new investors will now go after other companies remains to be seen, buteWeek has suggested that it could go after the ODF formatused by OpenOffice. It says:"While XML is a public-domain format, and i4i's patent focuses on 'custom XML,' a court ruling that solidifies i4i's position as a leverager of the technology could potentially allow it to launch patent-infringement lawsuits against applications such as the upcoming ODF 1.2, which will reportedly rely on a custom XML format similar to that already present in Microsoft Office 2007 applications."That could open a company utilizing ODF 1.2 or similar technology to a lawsuit akin to the one bludgeoning Microsoft."
You probably don't own any Intel products, as distinct from products that contain Intel chips. But one of the devices that the company has designed and manufactures is theIntel Reader, which is a product of the Intel Health division. It's a fattish Atom-powered portable that converts print into large print and, if you want, reads it aloud. It's aimed at people who find reading difficult because of impaired eyesight or dyslexia, for example.The Intel Reader needs to be portable so that you can carry it around. When you run into something you can't read, you use the Reader's built in camera to photograph it -- it might be a restaurant menu, a ticket, a notice, or the instructions on a bottle of pills. It's not simply an electronic book system, though it can be used to read ebooks including (hip hip hooray) books in theDaisy(Digital Accessible Information System) format used by the RNIB.So why did a company that normally provides chips create a whole product? At CES 2010, I asked Intel's Tracy Counts, the Reader's marketing manager. She said the product's developer is dyslexic and knew how hard it was "to get printed text in a format he could listen to and understand. He went to the general manager of our group and pitched the idea, and Intel Heath got behind it because it fits with the whole idea of digital health, which is helping people to be independent."The Intel Reader isn't so much a consumer electronics device as a health product with a limited market (people with poor vision, the blind, the dyslexic), and that's reflected in the£999 price at Amazon.co.uk. It could also find users in schools and libraries, and Intel is showing the Reader at this week'sBETT educational technology exhibitionat Olympia in London (13 - 16 January 2010).The Intel Reader was one of the Top 10 devices in theLast Gadget Standingcompetition at CES, andEngadgetput it through its paces in a hands-on video, below:
Twitter's increasingly ubiquitous presence may reach a new level when the site is invoked in court as evidence in a murder trial involving two young men who grew up together in Harlem.According to theNew York Daily News, the city's prosecutors intend to present the trial with tweets that passed between the victim, Kwame Dancy, 22, and the man accused of killing him, Jameg Blake, also 22.The angry exchanges are alleged to point to the ill-feeling that existed between the two, which according to charges spilled over on to the streets of Harlem, where Dancy, who was training to be a nurse, died after being shot in the neck on 1 December. The gun was reported to have been found in Central Park.Dancy and Blake lived on the same floor of a high-rise block on West 132nd Street, Harlem. The governor of New York state, David Paterson, lives one floor above them. The two young men are said to have had a fraught relationship, which boiled over last summer in rivalry over a woman.The tweets the police may subpoena as evidence were written only hours before the shooting. Dancy appeared to be referring to Blake when he posted "Niggas is lookin for u don't think I won't give up ya address for a price betta chill asap!"Blake posted several aggressive tweets, though only one, written two days after the killing, directly referred to Dancy personally: "R.I.P. Kwame."Dancy's mother, Madeline Smith, told the New York Daily News last week that the pair had been friends and that the angry words expressed on Twitter were no excuse for violence."That's not a reason to shoot somebody," she said. "That's crazy. I don't know what's going on with that Twitter thing."Blake is being held without bail in a New York prison. Last week he pleaded not guilty to murder at an initial court hearing.Police also intend to submit video evidence recorded at about the time of the shooting, allegedly showing Blake carrying a bag big enough to hold a gun.Defence lawyers say they have phone records that show Blake was on the phone at the time of the shooting.
Just in case you haven't seen this, official Xbox mouthpiece Major Nelson, hasreleased listsof the most played games on Xbox Live last year. The top five most played titles looks like this:1    Halo 32    Call of Duty 43    Modern Warfare 24    Call of Duty: WaW5    Gears of War 2Sure, the chart is dominated by the Call of Duty juggernaut, but it's interesting that Halo 3 has held on to the top spot, two years after its release. It seems Bungie's shooter has a hold over the Xbox online fraternity that simple cannot be broken, despite the incredible sales figures of, say, Modern Warfare 2.One question: why? I mean, obviously the maps are excellent and the four-player co-op is an important benchmark, but what else is this about? Is there a sort of brand loyalty among regular online players (Halo is, after all, an inextricable element of the Xbox throughline)? Or is it that online games - and the communities that surround them - take time to mature, like fine wines, but with assault rifles? But, then of course, Halo 3 had one million players attempting the Live experience on day one... Whatever, it will be interesting to see how the 2010 chart looks, especially when the map packs start coming in for Modern Warfare 2.There were other charts to ponder through too...The top five Arcade titles looks like this:1    Battlefield 19432    Castle Crashers3    Trials HD4    Hasbro Family Game Night **5    Shadow ComplexA worthy victory for EA, but just look at the retro-flavouring elsewhere - all effectively 2D titles, harking back to yesteryear.As for indie titles:1    I MAED A GAM3 W1TH Z0MB1ES!!!12    Avatar Drop3    RC-AirSim4    Headshot5    Miner Dig DeepAnd everyone of them worth a download if you haven't already.So anything missing as far as you're concerned? And what is it about Halo?
Do you remember what you were doing back in the spring of 2006? The first users of Twitter probably do - they were signing up for the new service that had been developed whenJack Dorsey told a brainstorming meeting at Odeo that "I want to have a dispatch service that connects us on our phones using text".You can see the list of thefirst 140 people to sign up with Twitter, which of course includesDorseyand co-founderBiz Stoneat No.1 and No.2.Evan Williams, for many the face of Twitter, is down there at No.8. [Note: at present, the Listorious page is throwing a fit for me, and only showing users 141 onwards. But that should be the link...]The list does have some intriguing elements: third user iscrystal, whose biography is simply "Twitter support" yet only has 14,827 followers (at last count). Dorsey, Stone and Williams of course have way more than a million followers, but so many others have fewer than 5,000 followers that you realise that longevity on Twitter isn't the key to large numbers following you - it's publicity.And who do you think the first Briton on Twitter was? No, it's not Stephen Fry. He didn't get around to it until July 15 2008 - the laggard. Instead, the special mention goes to web developerJonathan Markwell, who can proudly claim (as he does) to be Britain's first Twitterer, having been on the service since July 12 2006, as user No.51. (Update:Rod Begbie points out that he was Twitter user 76, "born and raised in Scotland". So, first Scot. Though he then became an American. So technically it's still correct to say that only one Briton *is* in the first 140.. though at the time, two Britons were.)And of course there'sMom- which I think we must recognise as the ur-mother-twitterer, whose tweetsinclude"What is this russ? What does it mean? Yo mama"and"OK WILL TRY IT WILL MAKE MY FAT DISAPPEAR TOO?"Yes, that's your mother, dear.The first Guardian user? Since you ask, we think it's(update: ) notJemima Kiss, who joined on 20 December 2006. AlthoughSimon Willison, now of this parish, did join on 15 November 2006 - though he wasn't then working for The Guardian.Update:Bobbie Johnson points out that he joined on 17 November 2006.Update 2:Meg Pickard points out that her @megp account was created at 11am on 15 November 2006. Yes, wearecutting edge.The 140characters site, by the way, does have a very interesting short (of course) history of how Twitter got set up, by Dom Sagolla (he's there in the first 140). Particularly:"We launched Twttr Beta on @Ev's birthday. We could now invite a slightly larger circle of friends, but still excluding any large companies (with a few trusted exceptions within places like Google). I'll never forget the family-friendly feeling of that day. We all knew that we were going to change the world with this thing that no one else understood. That day stands out in memory as the deep breath before a baby's first cry."Meanwhile, Odeo and the corporate board were at a tension point. Not only was the value of Twttr difficult to describe, the relevance of Odeo was declining monthly. Drastic cuts were recommended. One day in early May 2006, @Ev let four of us go: @Adam, @TonyStubblebine, me, and @Rabble. @Noah and @TimRoberts would later be asked to leave as well. It was a tough decision and huge shock to each of us. We all handled it differently. Looking back on it, I think Twitter allowed us to stay connected when we might not have otherwise been. After all, we weren't even public with the site yet, so each of us continued to add value just by using it with each other."That's what you'd call loyalty: using the product of the company that just fired you.
For the thousands of people who thronged the halls of theConsumer Electronics Showin Las Vegas over the past week, innovation was harder to come by than they might have expected.While plenty of new products were launched, ideas paraded and deals forged at this year's event, proceedings were ultimately overshadowed by two companies who didn't even launch anything there.Apple, which had competitors scrabbling to compete with rumours –just rumours- of a tablet computer, routinely sidesteps the exhibition. Google meanwhile, had decided to launch the Nexus One phone not in Las Vegas butat its own headquarterson the eve of the event.As a result, the show – which has been the birthplace of technologies like the DVD, CD player and the video recorder in the past – was relatively light on innovation. Instead of going out on a limb with new concepts, many manufacturers decided to crowd behind a just a handful of ideas, particularlyelectronic booksand3DTV.But of all the things that personally disappointed me, the biggest was the lip service paid to environmentalism. Hundreds of the exhibitors were trumpeting their green credentials – from hydrogen fuel cells to laptops made from recycled CDs - and even the expo itselfboastedabout its recycling programme and "sustainable planet" exhibition.While the industry has made strides in recent years, and many companies have started cleaning up their act, it seems ultimately doomed to failure unless something more fundamental changes.That's because even if the claims and assertions made by the industry were accurate – and for the most part, they are merely marketing chaff – they don't address the wider the deeply-embedded conflict between the technology industry and protecting the environment.As its name suggests, the consumer electronics business – worth $165bn a year in - is one built on consumption: consumption of materials, of power and (most importantly) of products. As long as we are encouraged to keep buying, we are unlikely to make inroads on the vast environmental footprint that our gadgets and gizmos leave behind.Despite that, though, there are plenty of reasons to feel optimistic about the role that technology can play in improving our environment. For starters, virtual trade can cut carbon footprints and increase energy efficiency: moving bits over wires is a lot less than environmental damage than physically transporting goods.But for every positive possibility, there are social, cultural, economic and environmental drawbacks.Despite the promise of internet connectivity, we don't yet live in a world of widespread telecommuting. Indeed, rather than negate the need for travel (a common promise of futurists) the high-speed, always-on world has simply meant that we now work in all the spaces that exist between the office and the home. Every public space is now a mobile office; every worker with a laptop or a BlackBerry is constantly on call.And for every energy-saving technology, there are a hundred more that entreats us to spend more, buy more and use more power for no good reason other than to keep the industry tumbling forward.Just take this year's big topic, 3DTV. Nearly every major manufacturer was chanting in unison about the incredible possibilities of 3D television sets, even though it is a technology that still feels a very long way from being a fixture in our living rooms.And while on one hand companies like Sony shout about their green designs, on the other they encourage us to buyhuge new TV sets to watch our 3D programming. And, to make matters worse, this comes from the selfsame groups who - just a couple of years ago -  encouraged us all to buy high definition sets. It's another technology we can't live without and that will change we live. The only thing that doesn't change is the need to buy, buy, buy.This isn't me entreating you to stop buying new gadgets. I don't expect hairshirts or the collapse of the consumer electronics business. But after days of being bombarded by gadgets, I prefer realism and honesty to glitzy advertising and PR guff.The first step to squaring the circle of the consumer electronics industry? Perhaps pausing the endless cycle of 'must-have' products. Perhaps an end to the shameless copycatting. Or perhaps even just a better understanding of how CES's attempts to go green conflicts with its Las Vegas surroundings.After all, any message about saving the planet can't help but feel like window dressing when it's delivered by billionaires in a city that revels in orgiastic levels of consumption.
With the Big Freeze (TM) in full force in the UK how was your gaming weekend? Stuck inside with a cuppa and a copy of the derivative but rather enjoyableDarksiders? Still fighting in Modern Warfare 2? Or maybe you're stuck on Zelda Spirit Tracks? The latter was certainly me anyway. As well as ploughing on with Zelda I've been spending time with Capcom'sDark Voidon Xbox 360. The jet pack shooter - sadly not the real jetpacks I used to think we'd have by 2010 - is a bit of a missed opportunity. The thought of a game based on jet pack combat sounds promising - sadly too much of Dark Void feels like a sub-par Gears of War complete with frustrating in-flight controls and murky visuals. My review will be live later this week but you can always try the demo in the meantime - its on Live and PSN now - and see if you can guess the score.Anyway, how was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Gadgets have been powered by many means over the years, from the humble plug to the battery to wind-up radios. But now one company thinks it can take things a step further – and pluck power from the air simply by harnessing Wi-Fi signals.Airnergy, a new system from electronics company RCA, hopes to make a breakthrough by allowing people to charge up their gadgets without lifting a finger.The company's first Airnergy device – dubbed a "Wi-Fi hotspot power harvester" by its makers – claims to harness small amounts of the signals broadcast by wireless internet access points, turning it into a useful power source for small devices such as mobile phones and music players.The pocket-sized gizmo, which resembles a 3G dongle, carries a complex series of circuits that converts a Wi-Fi signal into energy and stores it in its own battery. It can then be plugged into any mini-USB connector to provide a secondary power source.The laws of physics dictate that the device cannot be enormously powerful, and the speed at which it recharges will depend heavily on the strength of nearby Wi-Fi signals. But since wireless internet – which operates on the same frequency used by cordless telephones and microwaves ovens – is so prevalent, its makers suggest that it could effectively provide "free energy" by simply working off ambient electromagnetic noise while users go about their daily business.The gadget, which is scheduled to go on sale in the US later this year for $40 (£25), was being displayed at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas – where thousands of technology companies have spent the past week showcasing their latest products.Wireless power technologies have been developed before, many of which are being brought together under the banner of theWireless Power Consortium that formed last year.One system currently in use is short-range magnetic induction – such as the kind used in the Palm Pre handset and onedeveloped by UK firm Splashpowerbefore it was taken over by US firm eCoupled in 2008.Others include Silicon Valley company PowerBeam, which has developed a system thattransmits power wirelessly using laser-like shafts of heatand WiTricity, which usesmagnetic resonance to send power through the airand was spun out from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.For RCA, the launch of Airnergy comes almost 61 years after the company – which is now part of French technology group Thomson – introduced one of its breakthrough technologies: the 7in, 45 rpm single.Speaking about more recent developments, the company said it hopes to scale down the Airnergy technology so that it can be incorporated directly into the batteries used into handsets and other devices.
&bull; We've just wrapped upCES, which took an interesting turn over the weekend as we head interesting comments fromMicrosoft on the Xbox, Intel'sSean Maloneyand Palm'sJon Rubinstein.Full coverage here- including our stories, blog posts, videos and three special editions of theTech Weekly podcast&bull; Fanning the flames of its war with Microsoft,Googlesaid at CES on Friday thatits next phone would focus on business users. Android chief Andy Rubin said might have a physical keyboard to sway heavy emailers away from Windows Mobile and BlackBerry.&bull; Away from the halls and corridors of Las Vegas, there was still plenty going on in the world this weekend.With airports bringing in more technology to screen passengers, US officials have said that, in part, areliance on technology was itself to blamefor letting the Christmas bomber slip through the net. Basically, a White House review discovered that poor counterterrorism software couldn't handle misspellings, and therefore didn't pick up on the danger posed by Umar Abdulmutallab.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter(@guardiantech.
The rise of social networking online means that people no longer have an expectation of privacy, according to Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg.Talking at the Crunchie awards in San Francisco this weekend, the 25-year-old chief executive of the world's most popular social network said that privacy was no longer a "social norm"."People have really gotten comfortable not only sharing more information and different kinds, but more openly and with more people," he said. "That social norm is just something that has evolved over time."Zuckerberg said that the rise of social media reflected changing attitudes among ordinary people, adding that this radical change has happened in just a few years."When I got started in my dorm room at Harvard, the question a lot of people asked was, 'why would I want to put any information on the internet at all? Why would I want to have a website?'.""Then in the last 5 or 6 years, blogging has taken off in a huge way, and just all these different services that have people sharing all this information."His statement may not be a surprise, particularly since it helps to justify the company's recent –and highly controversial– decision to change the privacy settings of its 350 million users.But it also represents a remarkable shift from where the Californian company originally started out.Launched in 2004 as an exclusive network for Ivy League students, the site grew in part because allowed people to communicate privately – or at least among small groups of friends.The constant tug of war between public and private information that ensued led to a series ofembarrassing incidentswhere individuals published information online thinking it was private, only to have it reach the public.These episodes are partly the result of the way people use Facebook, which has changed its service on several occasions in recent years. Each time the site brings more information into the public domain – and at each point it faces a series of protests and adverse reactions from users.Moves included the decision in 2006 tointroduce the "news feed"– an update of people's activities that is now central to Facebook's service. A year later it launched Beacon, acontentious advertising systemthat allowed advertisers to track your activities online. That eventually led to the companysettling a lawsuit for $9.5m, but it did not prevent it from bringing in new privacy changes in December that one campaign group called "plain ugly".In his talk, however, Zuckerberg said it was important for companies like his to reflect the changing social norms in order to remain relevant and competitive."A lot of companies would be trapped by the conventions and their legacies of what they've built," he said. "Doing a privacy change for 350 million users is not the kind of thing that a lot of companies would do."But we viewed that as a really important thing, to always keep a beginner's mind and what would we do if we were starting the company now and we decided that these would be the social norms now and we just went for it."Not everybody agrees. Marshall Kirkpatrick, of the technology industry blog ReadWriteWeb,said Zuckerberg's statement was "not a believeable explanation"and pointed to the company's complicity in changing the way people think about online privacy.Meanwhile, others have rejected the idea that younger people, in particular, are less concerned about privacy. Last month Microsoft researcher and social networking expert Danah Boydtold the Guardianthat such assumptions often misunderstood the reasons that people put private information online."Kids have always cared about privacy, it's just that their notions of privacy look very different than adult notions," she said."As adults, by and large, we think of the home as a very private space … for young people it's not a private space. They have no control over who comes in and out of their room, or who comes in and out of their house. As a result, the online world feels more private because it feels like it has more control."
We've been trawling the floors here at CES to find out what new technologies will be vying for our attention over the coming year - but it's not just the main exhibition where the action has been taking place.Spare a thought for Palm boss Jon Rubinstein, who has managed to stir up plenty of trouble for the company with a brief aside at a CES Q&amp;A session that has now taken on a life of its own. In an on-stage discussion at the show, Rubinsteintold Kara Swisher from AllThingsDsaid that he had never used an iPhone:"We don't pay that much attention to Apple - I know it sounds really strange," he said. "I don't have an iPhone. I've never even used one."Coming from any other phone makerpositioning itself as a rival to Apple, that might seem like hubris. Coming from Rubinstein - who was one of Steve Jobs's closest lieutenants until he left Apple in 2006 - it seems like something else.Rubinstein, who took a hands-on role in product development when he arrived at Palm, is a private man. He spent years working alongside Jobs and was one of the major architects of the iPod project, which is what really helped Apple overturn its troubles and surge back to success.So his iPhone comment is strange. Is Rubinstein suggesting that he never saw an iPhone while he worked at Apple? Or is he saying that, in the 18-month downtime, this technology industry veteran of more than 30 years didn't have any interest in Apple's new handset? It's not even like he was working for Palm when the iPhone was launched: famously, he took a long holiday until he was tempted to get back into the race in October 2007.Or is he just displaying a peculiar version ofNot Invented Heresyndrome?Whatever the case, it's hardly a capital offence. But it is the sort of thing that exposes Palm's frailties - and the trouble it is having in drumming up momentum to keep its business alive.We interviewed Rubinstein at last year's event, when the company emerged as one of the big winners thanks to its launch of the Pre handset. This year, however, the company's announcements have been relatively lacklustre - the new Pre Plus and the Pixi Plus handset (both tweaks to previous models) and the news that the company had made a deal with US network Verizon.Those don't seem like enoughto revive the company's fortunes, and aren't particularly exciting for anybody outside the self-obsessed American bubble. But, once again, it just shows the shadow that Apple has cast over CES without even being here.After all, the audience who turned up for Rubinstein's talk came to hear about Palm - and they left talking about the iPhone.
European trade unions and industry groups from TV, film and radio have joined Bono, Lily Allen and other big-name artists in calling for wider legal crackdowns on internet piracy.Workers' representatives and trade groups from across Europe have formed a coalition to urge the European Union to formally adopt a strong stance against illegal filesharing and to put more pressure on internet service providers (ISPs) to help curb piracy.The calls follow headline-grabbingplans from the UK government to curb copyright infringement, including sending warning letters to persistent unlawful filesharers. Under the proposals, if piracy is not reduced by 70%, the government will introduce a series of "technical measures" that could include suspending a pirate's broadband connection. The plans have drawn intense criticism from ISPs and consumer groups but support from musicians, including Allen, who collated the views of various artists in acontroversial bloglast autumn.The European Audiovisual Social Dialogue Committee is now calling for "improvements to the legal framework" throughout the EU to encourage producers, broadcasters and content creators to provide more lawful online services."The unauthorised filesharing of protected works and performances – as well as the need for all right holders to derive tangible benefits from the exploitation of their work – are important issues that need to be better recognised by the European commission and other EU institutions," the committee – whose members include the Association of Commercial Television in Europe, the International Federation of Film Producers Associations and the European Federation of Journalists – said in a joint statement.The committee wants the internal markets commissioner to "ensure that all member states have the necessary infrastructure to effectively enforce copyright protection laws and ensure all ISPs work to prevent illegal P2P filesharing and other IP infringements through their services."The commission is also being asked to carry out research into the economic effects of online piracy, including possible job losses and lost revenues, and to consider introducing or reviewing EU legislation to protect copyright holders.The UK grouping of entertainment industry trade unions, called theCreative Coalition Campaign, backed the Europe-wide calls."Although the UK is taking a lead with the proposals outlined in the digital economy bill, unfortunately, other EU countries are lagging behind, putting the whole of the EU's creative sector at serious risk," Christine Payne, general secretary of Equity and chair of the Creative Coalition Campaign, said.But the demands are likely to face strong opposition from ISPs. The UK plans have already been  strongly condemned by TalkTalk as draconian and unlikely to work.Last week the broadband company, part of Charles Dunstone's Carphone Warehouse business, criticised comments by Bono, the U2 frontman, questioning ISPs' claims that they cannot always know the nature of internet traffic.Bono cited "America's noble effort to stop child pornography" as proof to the contrary, but Andrew Heaney, TalkTalk's executive director of strategy and regulation, said: "It is outrageous to equate the need to protect minors from the evils of child pornography with the need to protect copyright owners."Bono obviously does not understand how simple it is to access copyright-protected content without being detected. P2P filesharing can be spotted (albeit at great cost) but there are dozens of applications and tools out there which allow people to view content for free and no amount of snooping can detect it."
RENAULTSPORT 200 CUP CLIO£15,750TOP SPEED: 141MPHMILES PER GALLON: 34.4GOOD FOR: SPEED FREAKSBAD FOR: SPEED BUMPSMud snorkelling, naked cycling, speed eating… I'm happy to take my sporting pleasures where I find them, but I didn't imagine I'd ever find myself ringside for a spot of "precision parking". Yes, parking can yield hilarious results. Watching my neighbour snag his bumper on a full wheelie bin and empty its contents across the road was an event I wouldn't have wanted to miss. But this is extreme parking. These are drivers who spin their cars through 360 degrees before popping them into spaces which make Posh Spice look wide. The world record is held by Terry Grant, who reverse-swerved his Renault into a slot only 32cm longer than  the overall length of his car. Impressive stuff and it made me wonder what he could have pulled off with the Renaultsport 200 Cup – which, in case you hadn't spotted, is actually  a Clio – with too few X chromosomes.It's exactly 20 years since the first Clio was produced – taking over the mantle of the much-loved Renault 5. Since then it has consistently been one of Renault's top-selling models. It's been the European Car of the Year twice, and its famous ad campaign starring Thierry Henry (this is pre "Hand of Henry" days) cemented the car's place in our psyche. The ad's tagline, "va-va-voom", is now even listed in theOxford English Dictionary. However, fans of fluffy romance and sentimentality are in for a wake-up call with this Clio. The Renaultsport 200 Cup is a full-on street fighter – fast, furious and quite the most uncomfortable car you'll ever travel in. But then this is a car that isn't built for comfort; it's all about performance. Other than the figure-hugging Recaro bucket seats, Renault hasn't wasted a penny on soft furnishings for its small, snappy beastie. The interior finish is plasticky and unforgiving.  There isn't even a clip to hold the tool kit in place – just a cable tie, which is quite something considering the car costs 15 grand.So what do you get for your money? You get a phenomenal 1,998cc, 200hp four-cylinder petrol engine which offers the highest power-to-weight ratio in its class. You get a top speed of 141mph and a 0-62mph time of 6.9 seconds. You get a super stiff, lowered chassis. You get a longer and wider wheelbase which, along with the double-axis strut front suspension, means you get a car that sticks to the road like nylon sheets stick to your shoulders on a fetid night. You get performance, speed and grip by the bucketload and if you are fluent in the thrills of tight turns and electric straights, then the 200 Cup speaks your language."Great. That's the motor for me," I hear you say. "In Alien Green, with chrome exhausts and a yellow F1-inspired dashboard." And maybe it is. But after a week of having my brain shaken over speed bumps, of manically careering away from traffic lights, of straddling the uncomfortable seats, I was happy to give it back. Maybe that says more about me, but I was more than relieved to park it at the end of the week, carefully, and with plenty of space at both ends.★martin.love@observer.co.uk
