Expos&#233; exposedAfter seeing their argument picked apart by bloggers, America's CBS News admitted this week that they had been duped by fake documents when they "exposed" George Bush's ducking of military service. Was this weblogging's finest hour? The web's right wing certainly thinks so. And they aren't the only ones - a host of bloggers are cheering on the nitpicking power of the blog, while Silicon Valley journalist Dan Gillmor thought the episode perfectly illustrated his theories on how armchair aficionados can keep big media accountable.http://masl.to/?V27032759http://masl.to/?L36023759http://masl.to/?G35012759Olympic flameJust weeks after Britain's Olympic winners left Athens, the Greek capital is playing host to the 12th Paralympics. Things are going well for Team GB, who are looking to try to match the phenomenal success they had in Sydney four years ago. BBC journalist and blogger Stuart Hughes, who lost a leg in an Iraqi landmine blast last year, is blogging from the games, and has even had the chance to race against American Marlon Shirley - the fastest amputee in the world. Elsewhere, Christina Papamichael is blogging direct from Athens for Ouch!, the BBC's online disability magazine.http://stuarthughes.blogspot.comwww.bbc.co.uk/ouch/paralympics/blogGirl interruptedIt's over. Controversial call girl blogger Belle de Jour, who turned her tricks into an award-winning weblog, has given it all up. Well, at least on her website. "When this blog started it was with no expectations," she wrote in her final farewell. "The time will never be right to finish the diary - so I am ending it now." Well, it's hardly the end of the world, but good luck to her - less than a year's work produced a clutch of readers, a lucrative book deal and claims of a TV project. The wages of sin, it seems, aren't that bad at all.http://belledejour-uk.blogspot.comLaw and orderMoving across the thin blue line, one policeman has traded his truncheon for a laptop - at least in his spare time. It might have a name straight out of Ronseal's "does what it says on the tin" marketing department, but The Policeman's Blog flashes a light on the dark recesses of one copper's life. Dave, the PC with a PC, claims his weblog is "a journey into the mad, mad world of the British underclass". With such a sympathetic view of his protectorate, one can only wonder whether he has a job in community relations.http://coppersblog.blogspot.comOn the jobJob-blogging is clearly in vogue. Perhaps it's post-summer holiday blues, but there are plenty of people ready to dish the dirt on their chosen trade. Diary of a Fast Food Life follows the travails of a teenage takeaway monkey. Behind the grease, spots and flame-grilled whoppers, FFL offers an insider's view of being a Super Sizer. Bitch PhD, meanwhile, is the diary of one American professor's existence - spiced up by a Washingtonienne-style sex life and occasional interludes on motherhood. With frank admissions about her professionalism, or lack of it, it's full of the candour that typifies the best confessional blogs.http://fast-life.blogspot.comhttp://bitchphd.blogspot.comTurning 21Those looking to build a collection of weblogs - perhaps for the office or a social group you belong to - could do worse than take a look at new service 21publish. Formed as a spin-off from weblog tool 20six, the tool allows you to publish and manage a selection of sites from one central hub. And with control over who gets access to your sites, it could be perfect for clubs, societies or small companies. Time will tell if it has the juice to stick around.http://21publish.comSix of the best:Websites for disabled peopleDisability Nowwww.disabilitynow.org.ukRadarwww.radar.org.ukChooseabilitywww.chooseability.orgDisabled Accessoriesdisabledaccessories.comDisabled Gowww.disabledgo.infoCenter for Accessible Technologywww.cforat.org
Streets aheadYour piece on IT in the north-east (Sunrise on the Tyne, September 16) was interesting - but Grey Street, Newcastle is not merely the finest street in the north-east. Two years ago, the Guardian had a spread and picture about the Council for the Built Environment having declared Grey Street to be the finest street in the country - and so it is.Alan MyersHitchinLeading the fieldIn response to Michael Hale's letter (Feedback, September 16), ever since the first Mac desktop computer, Macintosh has designed its machines around stability rather than brute force. I defy anyone to unequivocally sing the praises of Windows - it is bug-filled, and you know it. It's interesting that every time Macintosh makes a decisive move in the industry, PCs miraculously toe the same line: 64-bit processors, transparent casings, solid metal casings, the entire Windows layout... It's not all about clock speeds and fancy gizmos, it's about ingenuity and reliability.Sam TurtonSuffolkHard to dateI beg to differ with Michael Hale's opinion about the new iMac G5: he says it is "woefully underpowered" and "hardly groundbreaking". To begin, the first desktop 64-bit CPU wasn't the iMac G5, it was the G5 in the silver casing - also made by Apple. As it happens, it's been out for almost a year. Another thing to differentiate PCs from Macs is that PCs are out of date on average 10 times faster than Macs: I still use a 300MHz Mac from 1998, which can run all the latest software and also serves my website. Give me a PC from before 2000 capable of all the above and I will be quiet.Lawrence DudleyNo comparisonI take issue with Michael Hale as he clearly knows not what he has done. A direct comparison of the processor speed of a Mac with that of a PC means nothing. The Mac speed quoted should be ratioed to approximately 1.5/1.8x to give proper comparison results. Yes, 64-bit PCs have been available for months, but unless you upgraded to Linux instead of Windows, you will not have been able to take advantage of this processor. Macs have 64-bit built in to OS X Panther by default.Although you may see the components as cheap or awful, they have a compatibility that Microsoft can only dream of, so no crashes. If graphics cards are so important to you, then you must be a game player - if so, get an Xbox and stop comparing your PC to other products.Shaun SavageOut of the frameChris Read (Feedback, September 16) incorrectly states that inline frames do not adhere to W3C standards and that Netscape, Opera and Mozilla cannot show them. Iframes are specified in HTML 4.0 and XHTML 1.0. They have been supported by Mozilla, Opera since v4, and Netscape since v6.Se&#225;n DillonGodalmingGoing wirelessI have downloaded Windows XP Servie Pack 2 and it only took me 24 minutes to wirelessly link three computers. It turns a desktop into a network detector - it is fabulous, and I would recommend anybody to download it on to all computers on their prospective net. One question: is the firewall on SP2 any good? I have kept NP firewall going.Andrew DinesCoventryObscure-govIan Watmore, the new head of e-government, is charged with encouraging all of us to use the web for contacts with government, national and local (New head on the block, September 9). He looks for effective and efficient as well as electronic government. Efficiency, he says, goes hand in hand with self-service. "The key is to get more people to take up e-services."Well, yes. But surely the key to that is to start with an obvious address for contacting government? If I wanted to contact a government department, I would start by thinking of "gov" or a similar word. The last word I would think of would be "direct". Who abandoned "gov.uk" and dreamed up the obscure "directgov"?Howard FullerOxfordshireAccount warsI've been wondering about something for a while now. Quite often when I send email to my girlfriend's yahoo.co.uk account from my Hotmail account, the message is delayed around six to eight hours. The reverse happens quite a lot too, when she sends mail to me. I've also had these problems when posting to other Yahoo accounts from my Hotmail, but never to other provider's accounts or when I post from my own alternate email addresses.Being a naturally suspicious person, I can't help wondering if Hotmail and Yahoo are deliberately delaying messages to one another out of spite or something. Has anybody else noticed this or am I just paranoid and suspicious?Andy Potter
Taking the initiativeBritish businesses are failing to make the best use of the government's Home Computer Initiative, new research by the British Chambers of Commerce has claimed. The organisation says the scheme, which allows workers to buy hardware at reduced rates through tax and national insurance breaks, is only being used by around 2% of companies. Aimed at helping promote IT literacy, HCI has been picked up by some large employers but small companies can find it too complex. The BCC has responded by launching a drive to encourage small and medium-sized firms into the project. Chamber HCI links up with Evesham Technology to assist smaller firms in overcoming some of the scheme's more complicated aspects.http://dti.gov.uk/hciwww.chamberhci.comVoq hereThe Voq Professional, a Windows Mobile-based smartphone with a novel flip-open Qwerty thumbpad, has finally reached Europe. The UK suppliers are Hugh Symons Mobile Computing and Yes Telecom.Visual basesHyperion is making financial analytics more accessible with the release of Essbase 7X. Multidimensional spreadsheets are difficult to set up and need a specialist to spot trends and anomalies. Essbase tackles this problem by making the figures visually meaningful. Hyperion's Visual Explorer turns these spreadsheets into graphs using size and colouring to represent the multiple axes. For example, two dimensions of a bar graph can be supplemented by colour, the shade of the colour and width of the bar to add extra dimensions. Hyperion says this will take analytics out of the finance department and into the general office.http://masl.to/?L25A14659Securing AOLAOL is tackling identity theft by offering extra-secure access to its online services. PassCode users will be provided with SecurID cards - key fobs that generate a new numerical password every minute. Users enter this number, in addition to their normal name and password, to authenticate their identity. This will prevent the hijacking of accounts by anyone who learns the user's current password and screen name. AOL claims that RSA Security's SecurID technology will make it the most secure online service available. It will also make it possible to have federated log-ons to other companies' sites to secure online transactions. Premium PassCode access is being tested in the US for an initial charge of $9.95 (&#163;5.50) and an additional monthly charge starting at $1.95 (&#163;1.10).Building plansAutoDesk, the software publisher, is finding more users for its Buzzsaw online project collaboration service as building projects become more ambitious. Two recent recruits are for the Shard of Glass building in London and the Freedom Tower in New York. Both are high-profile projects that want to avoid the sort of criticisms directed at the Scottish parliament building. Buzzsaw provides a portal through which all of the contractors, engineers and architects working on a project can collaborate, share information and store the latest documentation and alterations. AutoDesk says this will avoid unnecessary delays and expense caused by documents going missing or being delayed in the post.http://masl.to/?O18A35659Governance groansAn IDC report shows that many companies would be unable to satisfy corporate governance regulations. Additionally, the market intelligence firm reports that 53% of European companies could be courting disaster, as well as legal repercussions, through their lack of continuity plans. The research, commissioned by Quantum, a data backup company, reveals that 29% of the 150 IT decision-makers questioned say their senior managers are currently involved in compliance projects, and a quarter say IT policies have already changed. Sales of disk and tape storage devices are expected to benefit from these changes, but 40% of respondents claim projects will be held up by limited hardware budgets and lack of time.Spam warsThe Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) says it has launched an Anti-Spam Toolkit as the first step in an initiative to help policy-makers, regulators and industry restore trust in the internet and email. It will include a reference guide to the different approaches to spam regulation, to help people find loopholes and plug them. The OECD's Spam Task Force includes participants from all 30 OECD countries and the European Commission. It is inviting members of the public to contribute by email tospam.project@oecd.org.www.oecd.org/sti/spam
What's the next step in the evolution of blogging?It would be nice to think it will be an awareness that just being able to publish stuff doesn't mean what you have to say is true, relevant or interesting. If you're writing online because you want to share your thoughts then that's fine, but those such as Dan Gillmor, who claim blogging is going to change the way journalism operates, are overstating things.Is Creative Commons making inroads with the blogging/net fraternity?Creative Commons is about far more than blogging or the net - it's about providing a model for the future of copyright that can challenge attempts by corporations to lock down our cultural heritage and assert control over intellectual property. Music and books are being published under Creative Commons licences, and now that academics at Oxford are writing a version of the CC licence that works with UK copyright law, we may see more take-up here.I hope that as people become aware of how rights-holding corporations are taking away the freedom to be inspired by works that copyright law was originally designed to preserve, they will start to look for books, music, and even films published under a CC licence. Eventually, I hope legislators resist the illegitimate demands of people who would deny us the public domain.Will the BBC's proposed Creative Archive force others to change the way they make content available?I hope so. The BBC can act in the wider public interest, taking advantage of its state-backed independence to do things the free market is clearly unable to deliver. The market has given us digital rights management - locked-down music, regionalised DVDs and ebooks that won't let you cut and paste from an out-of-copyright Jane Austen novel. The BBC can give us freedom to tinker, reuse and create.I've never believed those who say the BBC's online activity distorts the market - or rather, I'm in favour of distorting the market in the interests of us all rather than just the naked commercial interests of private companies.Which of the emerging technologies most fires your imagination?It's not really an emerging technology, because it was over-hyped two years ago, but I think that web services have the potential to change the way we use the internet. The model is basically just the latest approach to building distributed computing applications, where the separate modules communicate over the net using XML. It gets us away from the world wide web as a collection of pages on servers. The web was a really bad idea, because 10 years ago it diverted attention from the problems of building effective distributed systems in favour of a publishing model.Gadgets?My favourite gadget is, sadly, illegal in the UK. So I don't have one. It's the iTrip (http://masl.to/?H68212B28), which plugs into an iPod and turns it into a very low power, short-range FM radio transmitter. It's a perfect illustration of how usable interfaces - in this case the 3mm jack - create the potential for innovation.Visit:www.andfinally.comandhttp://www.recessmonkey.comBill Thompson's bookmarkswww.theregister.co.ukwww.skillbytes.co.uk/memex/www.opendemocracy.netwww.dracos.co.uk/railway/timetable/www.multimap.com
Wi-Fi is wonderful, but the current standards do not go far enough or fast enough. The search for ways to send more data faster over longer distances has produced a confusing number of wireless networking technologies - WiMax, Wireless USB, Ultra Wideband as well as new versions of Wi-Fi. So what is coming when, and which will you actually use?WiMax will be here first. Intel announced at its recent developer conference that its WiMax chips, code-named Rosedale, are ready for hardware manufacturers. They will have WiMax hardware on sale in the second half of next year.Although WiMax will eventually show up in notebook PCs (perhaps by 2006) and even in PDAs and mobile phones (probably in 2008), it will initially be used for supplying wireless broadband to the home or office, or for connecting Wi-Fi hotspots to the network backbone.You can use WiMax where ADSL doesn't reach, and, unlike existing wireless broadband systems, it does not require line of sight between the two points.WiMax will also be cheaper to buy and install. Scott Robinson, general manager of Intel's Broadband Wireless Group, predicts that WiMax devices will soon cost less than $200 - around &#163;150 by the time they reach the UK. Within two years they could be as cheap as Wi-Fi is now.Although first generation WiMax devices may need an antenna on the outside of the building, it will also be possible to build access points that receive the signal through the outside wall, so you could install them yourself. BT is trialling a fixed wireless broadband service based on WiMax in Scotland, Wales, Cornwall and Northern Ireland. There's also the possibility of using WiMax on frequencies that do not need a licence, so community groups could install their own wireless broadband services.WiMax speeds will be comparable to ADSL. Although WiMax base stations deliver around 75Mbps, that will be shared among all the customers using that base station. One base station can cover up to a mile, and it can connect to a broadcast tower up to 30 miles away.WiMax will connect users to the internet, but you'll still need Wi-Fi to connect devices inside the building. This will encourage the sale of combined WiMax/Wi-Fi access points, which could include a standard phone line and a VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) phone connection.The second generation of WiMax will be more like Wi-Fi hotspots, so you'll be able to log on from different locations around town, or use it for networks in homes and businesses.True mobility means developing WiMax chips that can fit inside a mobile, and services that let you move from one base station to another without losing your connection. Third generation (3G) mobile phone systems already do that, but Intel thinks mobile operators might decide to use WiMax for data and save their 3G bandwidth for voice calls.Richardson thinks WiMax will eventually move to the frequencies currently used for broadcasting television. "Nirvana for wireless is sub-1GHz, when the signal can go deep into buildings," he says. The UK government is talking about turning off analogue TV broadcasts by 2012, but there's no guarantee that that spectrum will be free for anyone who wants to use it.One way to avoid the problems of finding unused frequencies in an increasingly crowded radio spectrum is to use all of them. Ultra Wideband (UWB) - a technology developed for the US military - spreads out over a huge range of frequencies at a very low signal strength. To anything except another UWB system, it looks like background noise and gets filtered out. At least, that's what the companies working on UWB equipment say.Regulators are more worried about interference, and the US authorities are limiting it to the frequencies from 3.1GHz to 10.6GHz. This gives UWB a bandwidth of 100Mbps and a range of 10-20 metres, although hardware manufacturers want to go up to 30 metres.A bigger obstacle to the success of UWB is the fact that there are two rival groups developing different UWB systems. The UWB Forum, backed by Motorola, is building wireless connections into home entertainment systems, which could be ready by the end of this year.The Multi-Band OFDM Alliance, promoted by Intel, HP, Philips, Samsung and other companies, expects to have products next year, including a wireless version of USB. Wireless USB offers the same zippy 480Mbps as Hi-Speed USB 2, and is designed for replacing the cables between computers and peripherals.The IEEE group that is supposed to pick one of the systems as a standard is deadlocked. Rather than having an official standard, it looks as though we will see both systems on sale, some of them branded as WiMedia, plus Wireless USB. If the confusion puts people off, the winner could be yet another new wireless technology - the next version of Wi-Fi.802.11n uses essentially the same technology as existing Wi-Fi standards but with multiple antennae to send and receive data. It is faster, has better control systems to use less power, and better error correction to extend the range up to 90 metres.Bandwidth figures for wireless can be misleading because the actual throughput is always less than the theoretical data rate. However, it looks as though 802.11n will provide a 160Mbps connection. This is three times faster than the nominal 54Mbps that 802.11a and 802.11g offer, and at least six times as fast as the actual connections you get with 802.11g. It will be fast enough to use for streaming video around the home or office, and for making VoIP phone calls.One proposal for 802.11n could go as fast as 540Mbps by using more antennae and 40MHz channels instead of the standard 20MHz channels. That's legal in the US, but Europe only allows 30MHz channels and Japan is looking at 10MHz channels, so you could get different results in different countries. If you want to use 802.11n on a network with 802.11b/g devices, you will be restricted to 20MHz channels, but compatibility with existing kit is a big selling point.Those are almost exactly the speeds that UWB promises, but Wi-Fi has the advantage of familiarity, compatibility and a longer range. UWB has its own strengths: it needs less power than Wi-Fi because it uses sophisticated signals rather than brute force, it's less likely to suffer from interference, and it's easier to secure. That should make it easier to set up multiple UWB networks side by side, so you could make VoIP phone calls without stopping your camcorder downloading footage to your PC via Wireless USB while your set-top box is streaming a movie to the TV in the bedroom. UWB also makes it easy to get an accurate location for transmitters, so you can find out exactly where you are, or where your equipment is. It could even be used for guiding vehicles automatically.The IEEE is looking at three proposals for the 802.11n standard, and another 26 ideas, which could be improvements to the main proposals or developed to rival them. As usual, there are two main camps with different approaches, and it could take a while to get everyone happy, but the plan is to have a first draft by the end of 2006 and a final specification in 2007. Again, the manufacturers aren't waiting for the standard: we will probably see 802.11n products on sale next year, with the promise that you will be able to upgrade to the standard when that comes along.Whichever system wins, wireless connections will be getting faster, if more confusing. But don't expect things to happen overnight. As Intel's Andy Grove once pointed out: "We started, fought and won the second world war in less time than it took to develop USB."LinksIntel WiMaxwww.intel.com/go/wimax/WiMax Forumwww.wimaxforum.orgMulti-Band OFDM Alliancewww.multibandofdm.orgUWB Forumwww.uwbforum.orgWiMediawww.wimedia.orgIntel UWBhttp://masl.to/?A2BA32359Wireless USBwww.intel.com/update/contents/wi02041.htm
Bill Gates has had a bad week at the office. The man who has made it a personal mission to see spam eradicated from our inboxes saw Microsoft's Sender ID anti-spam technology returned to sender by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), and subsequently snubbed by AOL.In what looks like a test of Microsoft's relationship with open source culture, an IETF working group voted not to proceed with the Sender ID standards proposal sent by Microsoft in June, citing concerns over intellectual property claims.AOL also decided to limit its involvement. In a statement, it said: "Given recent concerns expressed by the IETF, coupled with the tepid support for Sender ID in the open source community, AOL has decided to move forward with Sender Policy Framework (SPF)." However, AOL has agreed to submit lists of its mail servers' unique numeric addresses so other service providers using Sender ID can verify mail coming from AOL users.SPF is a means whereby incoming mail is identified against new Domain Name Servers to verify it is coming from the original sender. Sender ID combines Microsoft's Caller ID email technology and SPF. To complicate matters further, Yahoo is developing an authentication system called DomainKeys. This works by creating an encrypted email address signature, which is then checked by the receiving domain.According to Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at anti-spam firm Sophos, the issue is unlikely to be resolved easily. "Bill Gates is said to have personally vetoed conceding to the internet community's request to make the Sender ID technology available without any protective licensing."This is a kick in the teeth for Gates, who proposed Sender ID as one of the three principles by which he believed spam would be eradicated within two or three years. Now that prediction seems less likely to come true."But Microsoft says the debate has been misinterpreted. "People have been saying our patent application was secret, but it was released last week. The fact is, a small vocal minority of about 20 firms have been influencing the IETF, and those firms have no concept of intellectual property and we are never going to agree," says a spokesman, Sean Sundwall.Microsoft also rejects the claim that Sender ID is on the rocks. "Sender ID is not dead. It is just a case of the IETF putting out a new specification that allows a dualistic approach whereby you either use the checking technology in the initial specification or revert to SPF," says Sundwall.However, he agrees that Microsoft's expectations have been dashed. "We believed we could bridge the gap with the open source community," he says. "We thought the licensing terms would appeal to most people. This solution is not as clean as we hoped, but now we are moving on."The debate over Sender ID came soon after Intel's somewhat dramatic claim that the internet is in danger of collapsing under sheer weight of traffic, as users in developing countries come online in the next few years. Speaking at Intel's developer conference in San Francisco, chief technology officer Patrick Gelsinger called for the widespread adoption of PlanetLab. This is an overlay network of computers and storage devices that he said would "transform the internet from a data transmission pipe into a vast platform for hosting a wide array of services".A more secure internet would be attractive, but would it make any difference to email spam? Possibly, according to Derek McAuley, director of Intel Research Cambridge. He says that PlanetLab would enable such technologies to be tested."Companies already create overlay networks for added security, like virtual private networks for home workers. PlanetLab allows you to take that concept further."Some 150 leading universities and industrial research labs are members of the PlanetLab consortium. But backwards compatibility with the existing network may be an issue, according to MCI's technology strategist, Vint Cerf, who is considered to be the father of the internet. "Since it is an overlay, it can experiment with different security 'standards' for a hypothetical alternative universe internet, so we might learn something."But since the overlay is built on top of an existing network and operating system platform, the system may be vulnerable to attacks on the lower level of infrastructure."Nevertheless, Intel believes that an intelligent overlay network would be far better at detecting activity such as worm attacks. "People are calling it an internet telescope in that it is able to apply smart services that would be able to detect and warn of worm attacks and dynamically re-route traffic to avoid delays," says McAuley.The SMTP protocol used for internet email transmission was never designed with millions, let alone billions, of users in mind - yet it has persisted to this day. "It has so many features that are wide open to abuse that it makes sense to look to a planetary testbed to help us define a new protocol," says McAuley.
What is a "casual gamer" then? The 30-something who plays Tetris on their mobile? The 15yr old who buys all the FIFA games but spurns Pro Evo and anything that doesn't involve cars? Or, as one of the comments to myblog on the redesigned PS2suggests, someone who would choose Sony's PSP over Nintendo's DS as their handheld console. Now it's time this nonsense stopped. Forget the PSP/DS issue – sex appeal versus battery life is for another blog – this bigotry is all based around a bias that many self-titled "hardcore" gamers have – Sonyphobia.Forthese guys, Sony are the heathens who opened the doors to their private gaming club, letting in the great unwashed who valued graphics over gameplay, Lara Croft over Samus Aran. BP – Before PlayStation – gaming was a niche activity, enjoyed by children and teenagers with early consoles and home computers. Then came the PlayStation. 3D graphics, credible music, Tomb Raider – suddenly gaming moved into the living room and onto the front pages. People could relate to Lara and themusic of WipEout. Rightly or wrongly the colourful offerings from Nintendo and Sega couldn't compete. Speaking as someone whose gaming Top 5 includesZelda: Ocarina of Timeand Super Mario 64 I can feel the pain. But guys, and 97.89% of "hardcore" gamers are men, it's time to move on. The PlayStation has given us leftfield titles like Ico, Rez, and Vib Ribbon. Nintendo in the last two years have given us,er, disappointing sequels to Mario and Zelda. Sure, Metroid Prime and Animal Crossing have hit the spot where hundreds of PS2 titles haven't, but take off your Pokemon labelled specs. The Gamecube has flopped in Europe – kids just aren't interested in Nintendo when the likes ofGrand Theft Autoare around.Nintendo aside, I'd argue the opening up of gaming is a GOOD THING. The emergence of the mainstream market means developers and publishers have had to literally up their game. Graphics and audio are obviously now better than they have ever been; instructions, interface, all immeasurably better than even five years ago. Look in the charts – the average game now is streets ahead of its late 90s ancestors. Even the poor stuff can entertain for a while. The barriers to entry have come down – look at Singstar and EyeToy – and that's got to be good. Theoretically more people playing games means more profit, means more room to experiment. This is a golden age for gaming and we can thank the mainstream "casual gamer" for that. C'mon Hardcore, you know the score.
So, you've got an iPod. But does it just have to be used for music?Duke Universityare using it to give freshmen information which will help their on-campus orientation.Intelligence gathering service GCHQ has banned such devices to stop people downloading important or sensitive information.That's just by way of example. People are downloading things other than music onto their iPods, and finding out new ways to harness the power of personal players.Anyone else know of any unconventional uses?
Have you always wanted a bigger say in e-government? Got good ideas, but they always seem to be ignored? Why not have a look at theideal e-government group blog?"It is a public services wish list for the e-enabled on the lines of "wouldnt it be better for us if..." rather than "they'll get it wrong and nothing will ever happen".""The blog will contain ideas, commentary, provide links to other relevant sites, etc etc. Author names will be shown, but those in sensitive positions are welcome to use pseudonyms."In November a selection of ideas will be presented to Ian Watmore, who recently took charge of the e-government programme.
Imagine the situation. You have a friend, let's call him Rustum. He's coming to Britain to visit and do a bit of surfing while he's here (the surfing's rubbish in Uzbekistan, on account of it being landlocked). He's arriving at Birmingham international airport on flight HY211 from Tashkent, and you are going to meet him.Trouble is, you are running a little late. You need to know if the flight is on time. If it is also late, then you'll have time to drive; otherwise you'll take the train. So you'll need to check on the roads and the trains, too. And if you do end up travelling by rail, it would be interesting to have some appropriate reading matter - a quick guide to tilting trains, perhaps, something like that. That would certainly interest Rustum, as Pendolinos haven't reached Uzbekistan yet. Oh, and it would be nice to take a little present for him. The new Green Day album perhaps? But is it any good?Once Rustum's here, you're planning on heading straight to the beach to catch some waves. Should you go to the Gower peninsula, or down to Newquay? Obviously you're going to have to check surf conditions. And it might be nice to give blood somewhere along the way, if there's a place to do it. Then, in the evening you're planning a little surprise - you're going to cook Rustum's two favourite dishes: Suzette Style Crepes, and Chargrilled Wood Blewits. But can you remember the recipe? God, this is going to be one hectic day ...Don't worry, help is on hand, and has been for 30 years. It's called Ceefax and it can be of assistance with all of the above (see pages 125, 429, 431, 432, 449, 465, 531, 561). And you thought it was just for the news, sports results, and share prices. You probably shouldn't bother with Green Day, incidentally ("an album to dip into rather than devour" says Nigel Packer on page 531). And surfing-wise? At the time of writing, both Gower and Newquay look pretty hairy, with 5-6ft waves and stormy conditions. You should almost certainly check in with Simon Alexander, aka "Micky 3 Fins", who is on hand for some expert advice.Ceefax's official birthday is tomorrow, the same day as Cherie Blair's. I don't know if she was an accident, but Ceefax was. Thirty years ago, BBC engineers were looking at ways of providing subtitles for the deaf when they discovered that a normal television picture of 625 lines had spare capacity that could be used to transmit words and numbers. And so Ceefax - literally, "see facts" - was born. Back then it had 30 pages; now it's around 1,000. Oracle, ITV's service, was also launched the same year, then closed down in 1992 when the ITV/Channel 4 franchise was awarded to Teletext Ltd. (It's slightly confusing that teletext is also the generic term for text on the telly.)For most of its 30-year existence, Ceefax has rarely ventured into the foreground of the nation's consciousness. Its pages have spun around quietly and invisibly, a world to dip into occasionally for football news (page 302), what's on telly now and next (606), or the news headlines (101).There have been a few occasions when it has made a bit of a noise, sometimes even appearing in the news itself. Gary Lineker once said that the best place to watch Wimbledon play football was on Ceefax, prompting Vinnie Jones to call Lineker a "jellyfish". Bruce Rioch learned that he no longer had a job managing Queens Park Rangers from Ceefax. And when 13-year-old Zara Hoddle wanted to tell the world that she thought her dad, the England manager, was being bullied by the country, it was to Ceefax that she sent her fax.Not that Zara's fax was Ceefax's only scoop. Guess who was first with the story that Travis nearly split after their drummer's near-fatal accident. This exclusive was achieved when a Ceefax reporter found himself sitting next to singer Fran Healey at a football match, and they got chatting. For breaking stories, go to Ceefax first. See the facts.Surely though, in the age of the internet, Ceefax is no longer relevant? When you've got an information superhighway, why would anyone take the potholed country lane? Because there's something charming about the country lane, that's why. Mention Ceefax to anyone and, chances are, they'll have a guilty secret - it could be that they read the record reviews, that they have a favourite page they know the number of (606 I bet, 555 or 302). Or they may even know a short cut: the fact that the red but ton moves it on to the next page, for example. You just need to look at the birthday tributes (pages 187-198) to see that this, an irritating and outdated computer system, has somehow, wormed its way into the country's affections. John Major is a fan, Steve Davis says it's been a constant throughout his life (why is that not surprising?). When Avril Lavigne checks into a hotel room in this country, she is reported to demand two things: Bovril and Ceefax.Paul Brannan, the current editor of Ceefax, insists that it still has a role to play. "It's cheap, it's quick and on demand," he says. "It's convenient and it's very easy to operate." He points out that Ceefax still averages 20 million users a week.I was expecting to find Ceefax housed in a forgotten office at the end of a distant corridor at Broadcasting House, staffed by old men with cobwebs in their hair. But it's now integrated with BBC news online and looks, almost disappointingly, like any other modern newsroom. The people there are young and busy, they don't work exclusively for one thing or the other, and subeditors send versions of stories to the website and the new digital text service, as well as to Ceefax.But the Ceefax system is far from young and busy. The text itself is very basic: every letter takes up the same amount of space - so a "w" will be squeezed in while an "i" will be surrounded by lots of elbowroom. For some reason it can't do open quotation marks - they come out as " instead of " . There are only seven colours, and any attempt at a graphic or picture is a disaster - witness the pen at the top of the Dear Ceefax page (145), or the National Blood Service graphic on page 465.And, of course, there's the maddening waiting. Brannan attempts to explain the spinning numbers at the top of the screen. "Think of it like a slide carousel constantly spinning round. The page you want is one slide. When you ask for that page, the time it takes to come out depends on where in its cycle the carousel is."Brannan is very good at finding analogies to explain things to technology idiots. I want to know why there are so many empty pages. "Imagine the hull of a ship," he says. "And the pages are like barnacles. The more barnacles build up, the slower the ship goes. It's a big dilemma for me - content against speed. People get very angry when it slows right down. And also if a page gets shut down."The ship will finally be scuppered when analogue is switched off in 2012. You'll still be able to access all the same information on your television set, but Ceefax, in its current form, will no longer exist. The skilfully crafted 70-word news stories, with yellow headline, white first paragraph, and three pale blue paragraphs - they'll be something to reminisce about. Gone will be the funny blocky letters, the crappy pixelated graphics, the "wrong" inverted commas, the carousels and the barnacles.And some people aren't happy about it. There is (this isn't surprising, either) a website for teletext enthusiasts called Teletext Then and Now (teletext.mb21.co.uk). As well as a gallery showing favourite Ceefax pages from the past, it has an irresistible button labelled "Teletext Chat", with the tempting subline: "Discuss teletext with others."To anyone not familiar with the hardware and software of teletext, most of the chat might as well be in Uzbek. It's all about DEC PP11 systems, thumb-wheel switches, TTL chips and exchangable RL02s. But the people I meet on the website are not in the business; they're not bothered about TTL chips and exchangable RL02s; they're just genuine amateur teletext enthusiasts.Gillian Kirby from Blackburn recently graduated in linguistics, and is currently temping for a carpet company. "I've been a teletext addict for far longer than is healthy," she writes. "I have fond memories of putting the subtitles on as a kid, turning the sound down and imagining what it would be like to be deaf."Later, speaking by phone, she says that the internet's not the same as teletext. "I actually like the retroness of it. I like it when they do something about the Beatles, for example, and they do a blocky picture of the Beatles to go with it." Kirby thinks that ITV's service is better than the BBC's.But Simon Lewis, an accountant from Barkingside in Essex, is a Ceefax fan. He remembers when his dad first got a big Baird set with a wired remote control from Radio Rentals in Ilford in 1978. "We thought it was fantastic. You could get the news, the football scores, the whole concept was fantastic," he says. "I remember us all sitting round." Lewis can even remember the old page numbers: 120-130 for finance, 130-140 for sport; 160 was the alarm clock (now defunct, though there is a picture of the page in the gallery section of the Teletext Then and Now website, if you're interested).Lewis thinks it was better then than it is now, there was more background information, and also more fun. "There were jokes," he remembers. "There was someone called Joanne who always used to send in jokes." (Where are you now, Joanne?) Lewis has a high-speed internet connection at home, but he still goes to Ceefax first - for the news, the sports results, and share prices. He's not bothered about the graphics.And is it really so much slower? In a unique and highly scientific experiment, I pit Ceefax against the internet, the country lane against the superhighway (though I don't have broadband). From a standing start (ie, everything switched off, the way it is first thing in the morning), I time how long it takes to get the news headlines via both methods. Via Ceefax, it takes 14 seconds. On the internet - switching on, logging on, going to the BBC website - it takes 3 minutes, 8 seconds. In that time I could have gone to the shop to buy the paper. Or made a start on those Suzette Style Crepes.
CBS's admission that its story of George Bush's special treatment when with the Texas air national guard was deeply flawed is being seen as a key victory for the new "blogging" community of the internet against old media.This is mainly true. Although papers such as the Washington Post were on the case, the retraction would not have happened when it did but for the efforts of an army of bloggers - writers of online journals - in exposing the documents as fraudulent, including some who authoritatively questioned the authenticity of the documents almost as they were released.CBS was doubly at fault. It failed to appreciate the force of the thousands of voluntary fact-checkers out there on the web (let alone trying to harness their power in advance), while also failing to interview bloggers after the event as part of an ongoing story.Newspapers often claim   superiority because their stories go through a time-established filtration plant - professional writers, skilled subeditors, revise subs and expensive lawyers. This compares with the web's more anarchic processes, where brews of unfiltered stories, some highly speculative, are put into circulation, and cream sometimes rises to the top.In fact, bloggers are often people very expert in their own fields who attract other experts when issues in their domain are newsworthy. Stories in old media can be fact-checked instantaneously and the journalists and their newspapers held to account.At present this emergent "citizens' media" is reactive rather than pro-active, but things could change quickly. It has already happened in South Korea, where OhmyNews, which claims 33,000 citizen reporters, is highly influential and has a philosophy that in the 21st century everyone can write   news stories and share them.OhmyNews is not an aggregation of blogs, because stories submitted by citizens are edited by a small permanent staff. But it does give some idea of what the future might hold. One of the reasons for the explosive growth of blogs during the past few years is that they are almost childishly easy to install - requiring no knowledge of the internet - and are mainly free (blogger.com is one of the best places to start).In the beginning it was just words, but now photographs have been added and video-blogs (or vblogs) are starting to appear as "bandwidth" becomes cheaper. It is not fanciful to suppose that a   blog could soon become its own television channel.There is no doubt that the tectonic plates of journalism are moving. There is awesome potential in the internet as a gatherer, distributor and checker of news - not least through instant delivery channels such as mobile phones. This does not mean old media will die. But it will have to adapt quickly to what has so far been an asymmetrical relationship.Blogs have battened off newspapers and many newspapers, including the Guardian, have launched their own blogs. But most newspapers, let alone TV stations, have not embraced the blogging revolution as an essential part of the future rather than an irritant in the background. The CBS saga may prove to be the wake-up call they needed.&#183;Victor Keegan is the editor of Guardian Onlinevic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
I touched the tip of the iceberg of the PC mod scene when I did a small bit for Channel 5'sGadget Showback in August. Although the item was shortened and sweetened for TV Land, I got to find out a bit about the the technological goings on and chat to some of the gurus of the UK modification dynasty.That lady on the right? Yes, she's a PC.Unfortunately most of my information was on a dearly departed laptop (darn those house thieves), but what I do remember is that the subculture grew out of Local Area Network parties, or massive gaming competitions where big money was won by professional gamers and coveted by wannabes. Contenders' PCs needed to be seriously souped up to take on the processing powers of the big boys, and to show that they had digital muscle inside the beige box they cut open holes, attached neon lights and hacksawed aggressive logos into the sides. Rwar.Powertools and processors? That's awfully serious, no? Fear not closet Michelangelos! There's a whole symphony of metal-art inspiration to embrace with your Swiss Army Knife and your pocket welder. Why not do something a bit more... personal with your lump of hardware? Something, perhaps, like these:My favourite is that inimitable lady by Kat. He's made many more, which can be seenhere.But there are plenty more. Stuck playing a massive tourney and desperate for a cool can of liquid refreshment?Tubbycould be your salvation. It's a PC! It's a fridge! It's a party!Meanwhile, retro geeks should get a kick out of thisNESmod. Then there's thetoasterPC. Of course. And you'll find some of the madder ones live atenvador, including this guitar and this gingerbread house.Finally, surelyfish and mechanical componentsdon't mix?
World of Warcraft developer Blizzard Entertainment has introduced a controversialnaming policyfor its forthcoming massively multiplayer RPG game. Players will be kicked out if they choose a name for their character which appears to incite racial hatred, and will be warned and told to change any monicker that refers to real-life stars or sexual acts, or that usesleet speak. In fact, anything that seems a bit silly and capable of breaking the immersive spell of the game could be deemed off limits.Good idea? Well, it'll stop people wandering the fantasy realms of Warcraft with names like R01fH@rri$ and Poodlefondler, which is good. But does the policy strike at the very heart of the MMORPG experience, i.e. an online culture created and governed by its inhabitants? Is this the first step along the slippery waste disposal chute that leads to censorship?And is the fact that such a policyneedsto be put forward a sad and damning indictment of human behaviour in cyberspace?
One of the items on display at theSwissnexarty milk stool exhibition in San Francisco.Crazy continentals.For more check outSFGate[viaEngadget]
John Vidal reports in today's Guardian on the "Poisonous detritus of the electronic revolution".Apparently thousands of tonnes of potentially toxic computer waste is being shipped out of the UK to Africa and Asia every year.From the article:"The groups... identified a town called Guiyu, some 200 miles north-east of Hong Kong, where up to 100,000 migrant labourers break up and reprocess obsolete computers from around the world."The work involves men, women and children unaware of the health and environmental hazards of dismantling such goods - processes that include the open burning of plastics and wires, acid used to extract gold, the melting and burning of toxic soldered circuit boards and the cracking and dumping of toxic lead-laden cathode ray tubes.""Already Guiyu has become so polluted that well water is undrinkable and water has to be trucked in for the entire population, the report said."The article also lists the makeup of your typical 60lb desktop machine: including more than 6kg of plastics, 1.7kg of lead, 6.8kg of silica, 3.86kg of aluminium and trace amounts of substances including manganese, arsenic and mercury.
While we're mentioning the Guardian's other weblogs, it's about time we put in a good word for two new kids on the block:The Guide, the Guardian's weekly entertainment supplement, has gone all webloggy with daily updates from the writing team on all manner of musical, televisual, cinematic and other arty treats. Never let it be said that we at Onlineblog are cultural philistines.And as if that wasn't enough, our flagshipNewsbloghas relaunched with snazzy looks and stonking content from the Guardian Unlimited team. Today it's even got a big picture of Brian Clough, RIP.Read and enjoy.
Sony have just unveiled their new slimline PlayStation 2 - not only is it half the weight, a third of the width and much quieter, but it also includes an ethernet port as standard.Tune in to our sister Gamesblogfor more info.
Sony has shrunk the PlayStation 2 in the wash and come up with, er, PlayStation 2. The new model was unveiled this morning in London and made my early start worthwhile. The new machine, which will launch on November 1st and replace the existing model, is certainly a sexy little number. Compared to the original the weight has been halved, the thickness cut by 5cm and internal noise reduced by 75%. Perhaps most telling of all is the inclusion of an integrated Ethernet port for online gaming. Currently PS2 owners have to buy a separate adaptor to play online. The price of the console will remain the same as it is now (£104.99 SRP) but expect to pay £99.99 in the shops.The presentation itself was a typically slick Sony offering. David Reeves, President of Sony Computer Entertainment (SCEE) presented the audience with a stack of new figures. Most impressive was the number of PS2s in UK homes, which has now reached 6 million. There was also talk of PSP – the Europe and US launch is still set for March 2005 – and a montage of the Q4 software lineup. But pride of place went to the new look PS2. Reeves gushed: "This totally redesigned network ready model will demonstrate that PlayStation has once again the design flair and innovation that has made PlayStation the world's best loved and most successful games console".There are still some questions to be answered. Where does this leave the PS2 hard drive add-on? Is DVD playback improved? But generally this looks a positive move by Sony. By ignoring the childish designs of PSOne and by integrating network capabilities, they have created a sexy looking console that should do well this Christmas.
PC owners are to get their own EyeToy-style game this Christmas. The weirdly-named Camgoo uses a standard PC webcam to provide a selection of six physical games, all of which show the player on the PC screen as he or she takes part. Developed by German (we think) companyBVHand publised byRebel-Games, Camgoo (shouldn't that be a hair gel or something?) will be distributed as a standalone product for twenty quid or with a webcam for £40.I'm not sure how well this concept is going to work on PC, though. Sure, the EyeToy games have been massive on PlayStation 2, but that's because Sony's console plugs into the TV so everyone can gather round in the familiar family living space and get involved. People don't tend to gather around PCs unless someone's just downloaded a Paris Hilton video.Also, PC gaming takes place in the spare bedroom and is a solitary affair carrying the feint tang of obsession and shame. You know that you have spent far too much time in here, in the semi-darkness, 'fragging' people on Quake or getting Weymouth to the Champions League in Champ Man. It doesn't feel right to have your family in here.Or is that just me?
Aim-listed online recruitment specialist The Hotgroup yesterday continued its recent buying spree by acquiring rival Workthing for &#163;6m in cash.Workthing was set up by Guardian Media Group, owner of the Guardian, during the dotcom boom but never made it into profit.The company is believed to have pumped more than &#163;30m into the business including a TV advertising campaign for the Workthing.com online recruitment site. The business also includes PeopleBank Technology, an e-recruitment technology provider of corporate career sites.Guardian Media Group decided to sell the business as it became obvious that the market was consolidating.Since Workthing was founded in 1999, Guardian Media Group has expanded its own-branded online recruitment presence through Guardian Recruitment Solutions.The deal is the latest in a series of acquisitions for Hotgroup, which included PlanetRecruit in January last year, Jobsin.co.uk in November and Gis-a-job last May. In 2002 the average number of monthly jobseekers accessing Hotgroup's network of sites was 100,000. The company estimates that this has since grown to nearly 900,000 while the acquisition of Workthing will add 500,000 users.Hotgroup's chairman and chief executive Tony Reeves said he intends to create the UK's leading online recruitment provider."I think with this acquisition we are where we want to be and perhaps slightly sooner than we had expected," he said.Hotgroup expects the deal to allow it to cut costs through streamlining management and centralising back office infrastructure.The company is also looking to increase its presence in the offline, said Mr Reeves, and may do so through further acquisitions."Not all recruitment is going to go online, obviously. It is still very important to employers that they have face-to-face contact with potential employees."To fund its acquisition of Workthing Hotgroup plans to raise &#163;7m through the sale of loan notes and new shares to existing investors including non-executive director James Donald Hanson. Alongside &#163;4m worth of five-year loan notes to Mr Hanson, 15.8m new shares will be sold at 19p each to institutional investors and Mr Reeves.In the year to end March Workthing.com incurred a loss after tax of &#163;3.24m on sales of &#163;1.5m, and had net liabilities of &#163;13.55m.PeopleBank Technology incurred a loss after tax in the same period of &#163;340,000 on turnover of &#163;850,000 and had net liabilities of &#163;1.48m.
Free up the memory card and stretch out those thumbs - Pro Evolution Soccer 4 has a release date. The latest in the best footy game series around is out for PS2 on October 15th. This year though, things get a bit complicated. For the first time there is an Xbox version, complete with Live online capabilities, out in November. So what do you do? Get the PS2 version, safe in the knowledge that although there is no online option you a) get to play the game with the best controller and b) get it a month early. Or do you sit tight, avoid your friends, and wait for the chance to play online with the Xbox?
World of Warcraft, the long-awaited MMORPG (massively multiplayer role pla...agh, you know the rest) was down over the weekend as art imitated life. Well nearly. The game doesn't yet contain tornados or freak weather conditions, but heavy storms in Virginia saw extensive damage to the complex housing the servers. The aptly named developers, Blizzard, are working to get the game, which is still in beta but alreadymassively popular, up and running. Lets hope this isn't an excuse to further delay the European beta.
So not exactly this weekend, 'cause I'm currently enjoying a sangria in super Spain (come on, I really really need a holiday...), but over last week I primarily played two titles, the hilarious web-based Adventure/Role Playing GameThe Kingdom of Loathingand the XBox preview of the truly magnificentFable.What can I say? These are two superb games. The first is a madcap little ditty, very tongue in cheek, with stick figure graphics and evil accordians. There are some very silly antics involved, and some very silly jokes. It's a kind of grown-upAnimal Crossing, with more direction and adult-ish themes.You get a certain number of adventures to complete every day you're in the game, ranging from defeating the (ha ha ha) Knob Goblins to eating bowls of cottage cheese. I am an accordian thief of very little moxie (over there, in the gutter, err, margin). My mojo's quite low too. But if you ever run across SuperBrat in The Sewer, wave hello please!Fable is a different kind of gaming experience all together. Not only is the music done by my favorurite music composer -Danny Elfman(ofOingo Boingofame - and extra points if you remember them) - but the whole game has a kind of immersive, ethereal quality that's lacking in many contemporary titles.The sheer depth of this RPG is almost unmentionable. Balance good, evil, a life in the spotlight, romantic relationships and real estate. It should provide all of those gamers afraid of entering virtual worlds like EverQuest a taste of what they're missing. Simply, it rocks.Next week I shall be playing mostly Colin McRae 5. Sentimental something...
Already given a fright when CD players with skip buttons were introduced, the dreaded album filler is now set to face a new challenge - a magazine that not only reviews albums but also tells readers which tracks are worth downloading so they don't need to buy the entire album.Rip&amp;Burn magazine is being launched by Haymarket on October 1 with the clarion call of saving music listeners from having to endure those tracks that seem to be on an album just to keep the singles apart. The publisher is putting &#163;1.5m into the launch, which it says is well timed because 2004 has already witnessed a huge increase in downloads - from 500,000 in the first five months of the year to 2m in the next three, according to the British Phonographic Industry.The magazine's editor Tom Dunmore is convinced the 16 to 30-year-old "iPod generation" will push the "stagnant" album market into irretrievable decline while reinvigorating the single track market, albeit through MP3 files rather than CDs."We realised that with downloading digital music you tend not to buy albums any more, because you just put the tracks on your iPod that you know you would be happy to listen to if they were set to random," he says."Digital music is all a part of our cultural shift towards instant gratification. We just don't have the patience any more to wade through music we don't like just because something good's coming on next."Although the magazine is the first to be based around reviewing albums with a view to letting people know which tracks they should download and which are best avoided, it is also pitched at ending the arrogance often associated with the music press."There's a real emergence of a music-buying public that aren't allowing peers to pigeonhole them into particular genres because they may like some tracks from one artist who's completely different to a lot of the other music they buy," Dunmore argues."We're the first magazine to be espousing this and trying to put an end to the days of the arrogant rock journalist who decides what type of music is cool. With downloads, people decide for themselves by mixing and matching what they want to listen to."Take Radiohead. All the music journos love them because they're seen as being cool but, let's face it, their last three albums could easily be condensed to one good album, and that's exactly what we're there for, to help people sort the wheat from the chaff."Editor in chief Mat Snow, formerly editor of Mojo, sums up the new magazine as a "guide to help you round the biggest megastore you could ever imagine". Ultimately he believes the explosion in downloading will bring the UK into line with the rest of the world, where album sales have declined."We're an interesting case in this country because we've bucked the trend for declining album sales," he points out."It's mainly because the music industry has done well in getting general shops, like Asda, to sell albums to the mums and dads generation who are happier buying music next to cardigans and fish fingers than braving a loud, trendy music store."That will continue for people that want to buy Dido and Jamie Cullum albums but downloading is bound to affect album sales now it's so pervasive. It's a really important issue because albums are where record labels and artists make their money. The singles are just there to promote an artist and make sure they're talked about. They're often loss leaders."The rise of the download has led to a new phenomenon in America, where the purchase of digital tracks has started to overtake sales of singles and albums. Dunmore predicts this will soon happen in Britain."In the States, it's quite common, particularly for students, to be online allowing one another to look at their music collections," he says. "It's like an online version of going round somebody's house and flicking through their CD rack to see what they're into. It's becoming a way of people meeting and chatting. So that's something we're obviously keen to tap into, with the magazine being the equivalent of a friend that can tell you where to download really great songs."The magazine predicts movies are next - hence it will be covering DVD releases. So while new bands may worry that they can no longer get away with selling an album on the strength of a couple or three singles, Dunmore predicts that, within five years or so, movie watchers will find the idea of popping in to the likes of Blockbuster as alien as buying an album because they like a couple of songs.In the meantime, he sees Rip&amp;Burn as appealing to music fans who just can't help spending their wages on CDs and then have to explain to their partners an HMV bag crammed with this week's purchases."That's the great thing about the music we're helping people to buy," he jokes. "Not only do you only get the tracks that you want. The only people who know how much you've spent are you and your bank manager."
"UK police have arrested a man on suspicion of stealing source code from networking giant Cisco. The 20 year-old was arrested following Metropolitan Police Computer Crime Unit raids in Manchester and Derbyshire on 3 September. He was questioned on suspicion of offences against the UK's Computer Misuse Act in connection with the May theft of Cisco source and released pending further police enquiries," saysthe Register.IT Worldhas more details:"The arrest marks a major breakthrough in the case, which involves the posting of more than 800M bytes of source code from Cisco's Internetwork Operating System (IOS) to a Russian Web site in May."IOS is a proprietary operating system that runs on much of the networking hardware that Cisco makes."Malicious hackers made off with code for versions 12.3 of IOS after the thief compromised a Sun Microsystems Inc. server on Cisco's network, then briefly posted a link to the source code files on a file server belonging to the University of Utrecht in the Netherlands, according to Alexander Antipov, a security expert at Positive Technologies, a security consulting company in Moscow."
"A survey of Internet vulnerabilities to be released Monday shows a sharp jump in attacks on Windows-based personal computers during the first six months of 2004, along with a marked increase in commercially motivated threats," reportsthe New York Times."The Internet Security Threat Report says that from January 1 to June 30 there were at least 1,237 newly discovered software vulnerabilities, or flaws that could compromise security. That translates into an average of 48 new vulnerabilities a week.""The survey warns about a significant increase in the number of "bot," or robot, networks, which are arrays of interconnected personal computers that have been compromised to inject large volumes of viruses, worms, spyware or spam into the Internet. Over the first six months, the number of monitored bot networks rose to more than 30,000, from fewer than 2,000."Comment:Nearly seven new vulnerabilitiesevery single day? Clearly not good enough.
This October, the BBC is overseeing the launch of a new copyright licence. It is a small but necessary step towards realising one of the most visionary projects that the corporation has announced in decades - the Creative Archive. Although it may not seem obvious at first mention, the copyright licence, and the man behind it, show just how groundbreaking the archive promises to be.The Creative Archive will upload thousands of hours of archive BBC footage on to the internet to be watched again and reused by the public. As well as catering to curiosity-seekers eager to watch old footage from the 60s to the present day, the archive will provide students, teachers and amateur film-makers with a large body of material to reuse in non-commercial projects.The project exploits the BBC's position as a publicly funded broadcaster in a very clever way. Whereas most media organisations depend on controlling distribution of their products for their bread and butter income, the BBC has a charter obligation to make its products as free and accessible as possible. So while the majority of media companies continue to fret over internet piracy, the corporation can concentrate on getting involved in the broadband revolution. Peer-to-peer file-sharing will be central to the archive's distribution strategy.Paula Le Dieu, joint director of the project, wants the archive to become "the fuel for creative endeavours in the UK". She stresses the central ability to "use the material in a way that the internet allows you to use digital assets". But the UK copyright law has stood firmly in the way of such a resource up to now. This is because there has been no way for individuals or organisations to formally release works into the public domain the way the BBC proposes to do. Copyright law automatically grants "all rights reserved" to the author of a work, not just the right to commercially gain from the work, but the rights to distribution and to derivative works.When the BBC decided to release the Creative Archive for the British public to freely remix and reuse, therefore, it was presented with a significant legal challenge. Enter Lawrence Lessig, the Stanford law professor who last year asked the US supreme court to declare current copyright legislation unconstitutional.Lessig helped the corporation meet its legal challenge. It is his Creative Commons licence that the BBC has refashioned to get the archive off the ground. The history of this licence is embedded in a wider struggle against the current copyright system, and is Lessig's attempt to design some flexibility back into a system he believes will choke internet-enabled innovation. "It is incredible that at a time when we have an unprecedented power to distribute ideas around the world, we have a growing body of restrictive intellectual property law that forbids us to do so," he says.Lessig first became interested in the public value of the internet when he noticed that, by letting anybody plug a computer into the ends of the network and instantly serve up their own opinions and media tools to the world, the net was fostering a new and expansive intellectual commons. This commons was producing rapid innovations, grassroots tools such asfaxyourmp.com, ambitious   collaborative endeavours such aswikipedia.org, Alexandrian archive projects likearchive.organd the many blogs which are starting to change our ideas about the independent press.Lessig's three books - Code, The Future of Ideas and Free Culture - chart the expanding body of intellectual property legislation that will choke this innovation. Any idea about fair use of copyrighted material, he argues, requires a prohibitively expensive team of lawyers to defend it. Valuable online archive projects are prevented from digitising 50-year-old films by the obligation to locate for themselves every last actor and ask permission first. The quasi-perpetual copyright terms lately secured in the US, and heading swiftly for the EU, are steering us towards a new feudalism that will stunt the growth of the knowledge economy.Lessig explains this idea: "The fight against feudalism was the fight against property regimes that had become so expansive and cumbersome that they choked off innovation and competitive growth. Much of the progress of the common law in England was the process of limiting the burdens of property law, so that property could become something you could transfer - use, reuse, and the competitive market could take off. Now we've recreated feudalism in the context of intellectual property."Lessig is unequivocally not anti-copyright. Copyright law, he insists, must exist in a form which protects and incentivises creators. But it must also allow the eventual transference of ideas in order to promote progress. History teaches us, he argues, that when a new technology emerges that changes the way we transfer ideas; be it radio, film or cable TV, copyright law is re-examined.The Creative Commons licence was developed by Lessig and his team as a bottom-up approach to re-examining copyright law, after the top-down approach (his trip to the supreme court) failed. It manipulates existing law to create an environment of "some rights reserved", giving creators the power to take the feudal burdens out of the copyright system. Under Creative Commons, writers and artists choose which rights they want to keep, the exploitation of their work for commercial gain, say, while relinquishing other rights, for example, on distribution and derivative use.Free Culture was released under a Creative Commons licence: it can be accessed   from Lessig's website. The Canadian science fiction writer Cory Doctorow, whose collection of short stories A Place So Foreign and Eight More recently beat Margaret Atwood's Oryx and Crake to claim the 2004 Sunburst award, releases his work under Creative Commons. Doctorow attributes his critical and commercial success to the swift dissemination of his works permitted by the internet.With the BBC now endorsing the ideas behind it, the profile of Creative Commons is likely to grow. Lessig, Le Dieu states, has been a "terrific inspiration". The Creative Archive is being seen as a "core part of how the BBC wants to relate to audiences in the future" and it is likely that Lessig's ideas will be receiving a lot more scrutiny in the UK.Lessig explains the modern apathy towards the public domain by evoking a "Stalinist era of mass media, where we have become passive receptors of our own culture" and stresses the need to get back to "the idea of remixing &#91;that&#93; has been central to the creative process for much of the history of creativity". A rebalanced copyright law, he argues, will ensure digital media owners can profit from works while simultaneously allowing these works to be subverted and expanded upon in the internet-driven public domain.The Creative Archive will show the commercial world what happens when these ideas are put into practice, and an external panel of commercial stakeholders has already been established at the BBC. Lessig believes the archive will "drive economic development dramatically". He likens it to the BBC's computer literacy project of the 1980s, which saw millions of BBC Micro computers distributed to Britain's schools. The Creative Archive upgrades the vision of digital literacy from code to content, and, Lessig insists, will not only "drive demand for bandwidth, software and hardware tools in the UK to unprecedented levels" but also create a new generation of savvy media consumers who "instinctively understand how multimedia works", putting the UK into pole position in the digital race.There are still significant barriers for the BBC to overcome, the most obvious of which is working with rights-holders outside the BBC (independent producers and actors commissioned by the BBC over its history) to include their work in the archive. Together with the release of the licence later this month a small, demonstrative selection of archive clips will be put online.The low-key release belies the emerging centrality of the Creative Archive to future BBC strategy since the change of leadership last spring. Under Greg Dyke, a bigger release had been planned, but, as Le Dieu puts it, "we thought we were going to Brighton and now we're going to the moon, so we need to repack". Lessig trusts the new direction to maintain the philosophy of Creative Commons: "If you had asked me last year who would be the best man for the job, I would have pointed to Mark Thompson. When I put my ideas to him at Channel 4, he immediately got it: his next question was, right, how can we make this happen?"
George has Tony. Tony has Gordon. Richard has Judy. And so, for that matter, does Punch. The world is full of examples of relationships between a straight-talking loudmouth and a downtrodden, patronised sidekick whose job it is to carry all the brains.Just consider the relationship between newspapers and bloggers. In the early days of Blogistan, most bloggers were more than satisfied to link to interesting online news stories without too much in the way of comment or analysis. But as blogging has become more high profile, and bloggers more ballsy, Fleet Street has suddenly found itself with an army of unofficial fact-checkers, monitoring every word that appears in print, and drawing attention to anything that doesn't smell right. In both Europe and the United States, journalists have got egg on their faces after eagle-eyed bloggers pointed to evidence of laziness, plagiarism or just plain inaccuracy in their reports.No surprise, then, that the old-school media elite are getting touchy. Former Vanity Fair editor Tina Brown was heard earlier this month complaining that "because of the blogs, there is no final version of the truth and that can become genuinely muddying and muddling, because there's never any kind of closure on an issue". And she's right. Thanks to blogging, stories that would normally have become tomorrow's chip wrappers are kept bouncing around for weeks, being discussed and debated and never reaching a definite conclusion.But while Tina struggles with her need for closure, most papers are realising that there's no way they can stop bloggers tearing their stories apart, so they might as well accommodate them. Both the Guardian and the Washington Post have started their own "Best Blog" competitions, and there's hardly a major newspaper - from the Observer and the Evening Standard to the New York Times and USA Today - that hasn't published at least one lengthy feature on the growing influence of blogs.But despite all this, it's still a bit surprising to find a paper that loves bloggers so much that it actually makes a special effort to encourage them to link to - and, by extension, critique - their content. And it's even more surprising when that paper turns out to be the Wall Street Journal - hardly a title   known for being down wit' da kids.For the past few months, the paper has been sending a nightly email to bloggers, telling them about WSJ.com's daily free-to-access feature or story and inviting them to link to it. The email even begins with the (only slightly patronising) salutation "Dear Bloggers". The result? Traffic to the WSJ from blogs has increased significantly and the relationship between the old media giant and the new media hipsters has never been better.In fact there are only two slightly annoying things about the WSJ's blogger love-in. Firstly, it's a shame that more newspapers, particularly UK-based ones, haven't followed suit. After all, unlike the WSJ, most papers publish dozens of free-to-access articles online each day so it would be easy for them to create a list of suggested links for bloggers, based on the big stories of the day.The second annoying thing is that the WSJ hasn't gone even further. If it is really serious about reaching out to bloggers then why not go the whole hog and allow selected high-traffic blogs to link directly to any story in its archive rather than restricting them to a particular one? Such a system would be technically very easy to set up and there's no simpler way to make the selected bloggers feel very warm and fuzzy towards the WSJ and its content. And as long as the bloggers agree to only link to one story a day, there would be no risk of devaluing WSJ's content. In fact, the opposite would be true - by allowing bloggers to choose their own daily free-to-access story, it's much more likely that they'll choose one that they have something interesting to say about. The WSJ will end up with even more positive links from Blogistan, which in turn will translate to more traffic, and therefore more paid subscribers.How can I be so sure? Because that's exactly what happened when we trialled just such a system on the Friday Thing a couple of weeks ago. The trial came about when we modified our site to allow Google news users to access one free article from our paid archive before they hit our subscription wall. The system worked brilliantly, and we realised very quickly that it could be modified to allow single-page access to visitors from any site we chose. We emailed a few of our blog buddies inviting them to try it out - and of course they were delighted to be able to link to content that was previously out of bounds. Since implementing the system, our traffic has gone up alarmingly and our weekly paid subscriptions have increased by 20%. And we're just small fry. If a site like the Wall Street Journal gave a few trusted blog buddies a key to their archive, the financial benefits would probably be much, much more impressive. Free content for bloggers and their visitors equals more traffic, profit and street cred for the paper. That's what I call a perfect partnership.&#183;Paul Carr is editor-in-chief of the Friday Thing (www.thefridaything.co.uk)
The revelation last week  that the Sun - Britain's  biggest newspaper -  believes it is losing  daily circulation sales  to its website has  caused quite a stir in the online publishing  industry.The news has also come at quite  an inauspicious time for the paper,  which has just celebrated its 40th  birthday. Despite an illustrious heritage  of influencing politics and  making and breaking celebrities, as  some commentators have pointed  out this week, the once brash young  tabloid might be starting to show its  age.Year on year, the newspaper has  seen sales fall 5%, with the ABCs for  last month showing sales at 3.36m.  Editor Rebekah Wade will no doubt  be under pressure, although this fall  is in line with an overall 6% dip in  red-top sales.This is what is thought to have  been behind an internal survey into  the impact of the paper's website on  the paper's sales. The survey was said  to have found that the paper loses  about 90,000 readers a day to its site  which offers the same content as the  paper but for free. There were even  claims that thePage3.comlink,  thought to attract about 40% of the  site's audited users, might be withdrawn  altogether.It is true that while the print publication  has seen sales dip, the site atthesun.co.ukhas seen its user numbers  rocket by more than a million  extra pairs of eyeballs per month in  the year to April 2004, hitting 3.96m  that month according to ABC electronic  stats.By any standards this is a successful  site, which is why most industry  watchers were especially surprised to  read that the Sun's reaction to its circulation  fall could be to cut back content  on thesun.co.uk.No one from the Sun would return  calls to discuss plans for the site, so it  is probably a little unfair to condemn  or indeed praise any new strategy.  However, the topic of how newspaper  websites impact on print sales is  one that always excites the online  publishing community.The Sun's success online is not  thought to have been driven as much  by its traditional strong areas such as  news and sports but more by its commercial  spin-offs including Fantasy  Football and Page3.com - or as the  Guardian's director of digital publishing  Simon Waldman puts it,  "gambling and porn".Waldman does have grudging  respect for the Sun's performance  online and thinks the issue is less  about the Sun than it is about the  medium. "The bug people have  caught for using the Sun's site is not  necessarily about the Sun, it's about  using the web."Hugo Drayton, managing director  of the Telegraph group, agrees. "We  shouldn't get too hung up on the  medium, and give the users information  in whatever medium suits their  lifestyle."And most of the experts seems to  doubt that cutting back on website  content would help reverse any print  sales decline. "If a paper did that it  would be a blind alley - completely  the wrong response," says Drayton.  Mark Milner, chief operating officer  at Associated New Media, which  launcheddailymail.co.ukin May,  says: "In our experience there's no  proof that users will stop buying the  newspaper because of content on the  web."In UK publishing, where print still  accounts for the overwhelming bulk  of revenues and profits, it's perhaps  unsurprising that e-publishers are  keen to emphasise a mutually beneficial  relationship between the two  media. Or as Milner puts it: "In no  way do we do anything which cannibalises  circulation of the newspaper.  I like to think that we add to it."  In many ways, sites do add to the  print brand's readership - but there's  little evidence that these newcomers  transfer to print sales. Research by  the Guardian and Telegraph, for  instance, shows that about 70% and  40% of their users respectively are  from abroad. As Waldman says of his  monthly average of 8.5m users, "the  web has opened up a whole new horizon  for a relatively niche newspaper."In the US, where many large  newspapers' digital operations are much further down the road of integration  than in the UK, the experience  hasn't been markedly different.  Knight Ridder Digital is America's  second largest newspaper publisher,  home to the online versions of the San  Jose Mercury News and the Detroit  Free Press among about 30 others,.  For this company, the web is a very  important and integral part of any  modern newspaper."Looking at our own research and  others we've come to understand that  readers who say they get news from  the web are getting it from many  sources," says Anna Zornosa, Knight  Ridder Digital's chief marketing officer.  "We won't save them by limiting  or shutting down the newspaper dotcom  - we will just lose them to the  brand."Zornosa also agrees that web  opens new reader opportunities: "We  find the websites attract new demographics  to the newspaper brand  with a higher percentage of visitors  aged 24 to 34."So what do publishers do to maximise  the benefit from 24-hour interactive  access to its traditional newspaper  readers? "We put newspaper  subscription offers on every web  page," says Zornosa. "On our nine  largest sites, we ask all visitors to register  - and when we find an in-market  non-subscriber they will be  emailed subscription offers."Of course you need the interactive  content to bring people to the site as  well. As Zornosa says, "We ask our  newsroom to put more original content  on the web and to promote that  content heavily in the newspaper."  ANM's Milner agrees: "You should  explore every cross-promotional  opportunity where print can provide  value to the website and vice versa."Ultimately, as with much else in  digital media, it all comes down to a  decision on what is commercially  viable. All newspapers will be watching  closely to see if the Sun goes  ahead with its reported plans. As the  Telegraph's Drayton says, "It's a  wakeup call for everyone to make  sure that we need to get paid for our  content one way or another."&#183;Yinka Adegoke is deputy editor of New Media Age
This month has been a disappointing one for fans of horror games.Doom 3promised to be the most terrifying of all time, but merely took us back to a world of scary monsters and haunted houses. For all its admittedly impressive graphical technology, the game design can only be seen as reactionary compared to the surreal psychological horrors offered up by Konami'sSilent Hill, Tecmo'sFatal Frameor more recently Sony'sForbidden Siren.For several years these Japanese titles have been appropriating themes from mythology, schlock horror movies, expressionist art, traditional ghost stories and countless other media to generate deeply unsettling images and experiences. Even the more mainstream Resident Evil, which, like Doom 3, makes great use of juvenile shock tactics, also explores concepts of body horror and the supernatural – and as with any zombie movie, it plays on innate human fears and revulsion of our own post-mortem decay. Which is more impressive than throwing a flaming skull at the screen and expecting us to crap ourselves.But now even our favourite Japanese horror series are beginning to let us down. Silent Hill 4, with its emphasis on action, is a pale imitation of its relentlessly weird predecessors which often left you wandering for ages with nothing scarier than radio static to keep you on edge. AndResident Evil Outbreakis a joke in Europe, robbed of its key selling point – online co-operative play - which would have allowed gamers to explore the tense self-destructive group dynamic that has formed the basis of American horror cinema from The Texas Chainsaw Massacre right through to modern wannabes like Cabin Fever and Wrong Turn. Interestingly, Resident Evil 4 – perhaps influenced by those two recent movies - seems to be ditching zombies in favour of inbred yokels as the baddie of choice. Is Capcom looking to study metropolitan fears of rural folk? Or is this an attempt to push the series even further into the mainstream by providing more recognisable enemies? Perhaps the survival horror genre is simply morphing into the currently more in-vogue stealth shooter. That reallywouldbe a nightmare. What next? Resident Evil: Vice City?If this shift toward action and away from suspense and psychological horror proves pervasive, it will be a real loss. Videogames have a unique capacity to explore fear. Through their very interactivity they force us into a closer relationship with the hero and his/her situation – and unlike with movies, we can't hide behind the sofa when we're guiding Claire Redfield, we can't shout at the idiot character for going into the cellar alone, becausewe'rethe ones pushing them down there. And with forty hours of game play available in which to manipulate the audience, the videogame designer has a much larger canvas to work with than the horror movie director.The game developer can also use peripheral detail much more effectively than the movie director, knowing that the audience – able to explore at will - will have time to notice everything. In Silent Hill 2, for example, there are walls daubed with blood, strange signs on hospital walls, viscera in the toilet bowl – the gamer has time to notice them all, gorging on atmosphere. With the stylistically comparable movie, Se7en, the viewer could only hope to catch a tiny minority of the ambient horrors David Fincher litters in each scene without recourse to multiple viewings.There's far too much potential in the videogame format, then, for horror to slip entirely out of the developers' canon. Fortunately, there are signs that designers are finding new ways to scare, and new dark themes to explore. Free Radical Design's stealth adventureSecond Sightplays with para-psychological horror via its hero John Vattic who has violent telekinetic powers – recalling seventies shockers like Carrie and The Medusa Touch. And of course Rockstar's Manhunt –which on the surface appears to be just a pointlessly violent action adventure – is all about moral horror: it puts us into extreme situations and asks, 'how far will you go?'. Like Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness it wants to know what happens when the restraining bolts of culture and social ethics are removed from the average person. When we step into the shoes of James Earl Cash we're testing our primal instincts, staring into the id and whatever horrors it holds.Elsewhere, Midway'sThe Suffering, set in a haunted prison, made a rather cack-handed attempt to explore themes of madness and paranoia. It could have been so much better and surely there is a rich mine of material here. Imagine a game where the lead character faces a descent into madness, where anything you see on screen could be a paranoid hallucination – imagine an interactive version of Jacob's Ladder, The Shining or David Cronenberg 's Videodrome. On the subject of Cronenberg, the concept ofgruesome metamorphosisas explored in his late-seventies parasite movies Rabid and Shivers would make great material for a videogame. We glimpsed these ideas occasionally in Vivendi's very good translation of The Thing with its scenes of man to monster transmogrification. Expanded to become the main gameplay focus, I can imagine a survival horror romp where you control a character who must locate some sort of antidote to reverse a Dr Jekyll/Mr Hyde-style mutation. If nothing else, it would be a potent comment on, and analysis of our current obsession with cosmetic surgery.The Thing, by the way, also used a trust/fear meter to represent the psychological state of the characters - an interesting concept that forces you to worry about your avatar on both a mental and physical level. A similar concept appears in Capcom'sClock Tower 3, where lead character Alyssa suffers blurred vision and becomes almost uncontrollable when her panic meter rises to maximum, a very compelling attempt to simulate the subjectivivity of mental anguish. Gamers are used to having absolute trust of, and control over, the lead character, so to have this umbilical connection severed, even momentarily, causes quite a psychological jolt (see also the simulation of temporary deafness and blurred vision in Rainbow Six when your soldier strays too close to a bomb blast).So the big horror franchises are going off the boil, but there are interesting ideas bubbling underneath as developers play with the latest graphical and visual technologies to simulate alternate mental states and to explore new themes. Where will they look for narrative inspiration next? In the current climate of real world horror – of terrorism, protest and natural disaster – what need have we for zombies and psychological demons? Are videogame developers merely pausing and adapting to exploit topical themes and real-life terrors? Videogames with suicide bombers, corrupt politicians, hospital super bugs, alcohol-fuelled violence, refugee camps, ethnic war… The horror. The horror.
The cost of downloading tracks could plummet after easyJet founder, Stelios Haji-Ioannou, confirmed yesterday he was to launch easyMusic, a site offering "current hits and a back catalogue" for as little as 25p.The move comes a day after the Consumers' Association asked the Office of Fair Trading to investigate why Apple's iTunes internet service - one of the largest providers of online music - charges 79p in the UK to download a track but only 68p (&euro;0.99) in France and Germany.The BPI, which represents the music industry, estimates legal downloads have risen from 100,000 a month at the start of the year to 500,000 in August.Two weeks ago BBC Radio 1 began broadcasting a weekly chart based on the number of tracks sold online. The heavily promoted Natasha Bedingfield heads the latest list, mirroring her success in the traditional singles chart.TheeasyMusic.comlaunch represents a smart about-turn by Mr Haji-Ioannou, who was recently forced to pay &#163;80,000 in an out-of-court settlement to the BPI after being found guilty of music copyright infringement at his easyInternet Cafe chain.In May, when details of the site were first revealed, it was meant chiefly to be a chance for consumers to listen to musicians without recording contracts for free. Such material is commonly termed "copyleft".A section of the easyMusic site was always intended to sell mainstream tracks."Music is another example of a market which will grow if the price is lowered," Mr Haji-Ioannou said. "The price of music will come down, something which will increase the number of musicians and fans."But the prospect of cheaper access to mainstream music has prompted a familiar chorus of concern from the recording industry. Executives fear "unrealistic prices" will cut investment in new acts.Mr Haji-Ioannou's promise that tracks can be downloaded for 25p each prompted scepticism. Rivals suspect that, beyond the headline offers, most music files will cost much more.A spokesman for easyMusic said yesterday that, like other sites, there would be a "range" of charges.Wippit, the independent online music service which will run the easyMusic site, already offers some tracks at 29p each. Paul Myers, the head of Wippit, said there could be a price war."Most of our tracks &#91;on Wippit&#93; are available to download for 49p and the most expensive is 99p," he said. "But we also offer an annual sub-scription of &#163;50 a year for unlimited downloads. It's up to consumers if they want to pay &#163;1.19 for a Justin Timberlake file &#91;from a rival&#93; or buy it from us for 29p."At the moment downloads account for about 5% of single sales in the UK, but the technology is moving so fast it may rapidly overtake those sold on traditional vinyl and CDs. There are new markets opening up all the time. We can already deliver full colour videos, for example, to mobile phones."There has been an avalanche of commercial interest from outside the music business. One of the most successful sites is mycokemusic.com, a venture between Coca-Cola and OD2, a download firm founded by the former Genesis musician Peter Gabriel."We see a lot of brands that want to be associated with the business," said the BPI's Matt Phillips. "Wal-Mart, the supermarket chain, has got into it in the states. Online people are buying a much wider variety of tracks compared with the top 200 in the singles chart."Until recently the recording industry feared that illegal file-  sharing between music fans would wipe out the market for traditional shops selling CDs, vinyl and tapes. Legal action to defend copyrights and the growth of legal downloading have dissolved that particular spectre.But cheap downloads, some caution, could cause equal damage. "The value of music is a big problem for the recorded music industry," Mr Phillips said. "It's the record companies' job to invest in sound recordings and artists. The perceived &#91;cost&#93; and the ease with which it can be copied makes people no longer appreciate the value of music."Napster, the download site which has shrugged of its pirate origins and gone legal, said it did not fear competition because most of its customers paid a monthly subscription.A Napster spokesman, Adam Howarth, said: "Whenever a hot new product breaks, the brands with most money want to get on board. If you are selling music, however, you need some cachet or credibility. If you are going to be selling music as a loss-leader then you are devaluing it. It's unrealistic because the artists have to be paid."Where to tune in&#183;mycokemusic.comLaunched in January. Tracks cost from 80p to 99p&#183;WoolworthsOffers downloads through the website Streets Online. Singles cost 99p and albums &#163;7.99&#183;SonyLaunched Sony Connect in the UK in June via a tie-in with McDonald's. Tracks cost from 79p&#183;Napster UKLaunched in May. Prices vary from 88 to 99p a download&#183;Apple's iTunesLaunched in June. Sells tracks from 79p to &#163;1.09&#183;OD2Launched by former Genesis frontman Peter Gabriel. Prices range from 75 to 99p&#183;WippitSpecialises in independent label artists. Tracks from 29p&#183;easyMusicOwned by Stelios Haji-Ioannou, founder of easyJet. Due to go live later this year. Promises tracks for 25p
He describes himself as a short tubby bloke from Wigan and he wants to be your friend.But his friendship does not come free and Shane Braisdell, 29, has drawn up a sliding price scale for the degree of love and affection he is prepared to lavish on those who want to call him mate.Mr Braisdell, a retail manager, is selling year-long friendship packages on the auction website eBay with the slogan "the more you spend, the better the friend".He said: "I don't think you can guarantee a good friendship by paying for it, but if somebody wants to pay for mine, I will fulfil their demands. My friendship is priceless; I'm trustworthy, honest and reliable. Everybody needs more friends."Mr Braisdell, married with two children, is selling a range of friendship packages which will last for only 12 months, but he promises the winning bidder that he will be the best friend that money can buy.For 99p cheapskates can have the basic silver package, which can include a birthday card, monthly emails and a framed certificate of friendship.For &#163;30 Mr Braisdell will help solve problems and send cookery tips, weekly emails and film reviews.If bids reach &#163;70 he will give out his mobile number so that the flush friend can text him. He guarantees a reply to every message.For &#163;400 the friend can expect the delight of a 30-minute web cam chat every month.Mr Braisdell also promises to proclaim his friendship in an advertisement in a local paper of the winning bidder's choice.For &#163;500 he will send his new friend a DVD of his choice each month. Which seems an expensive way of building up a movie collection.Mr Braisdell says he will not enter into extra-marital relationships, or anything involving his family."I'm not a young attractive girl, so I doubt I will get any stalkers," he said."There is a price on friendship. You go out with friends, buy them presents and take them to dinner. It all costs money."The auction is due to close today.
Second SightGamecube, Playstation 2, XBOXHero John Vattic wakes up beaten to a pulp in a dingy prison cell, and his story starts to reveal itself in flashbacks as his slightly geeky earlier self is given a mission to investigate shadowy Russian scientist Grienko's research into telekinesis. Levels alternate between his    gun-toting but basically healthy former life and his wild-eyed, physically ravaged, Gulag-dwelling    present, in which you're also rapidly reintroduced to your psychic abilities that allow you to heal, attack and become invisible. Benefitting from the fluidity of control and attention to detail that are rapidly becoming the trademarks of British studio Free Radical (also famous for the Time   Splitters series), the intuitive interface and immaculately judged aiming and sniping mechanics make it immensely satisfying to play. Along with spookily similar shoot/think-'em-up Psi-Ops, this is third person action at its finest.Codemasters, £40JuicedPC, Playstation 2, XBOXIn a world of pimped rides and car mods, it's unsurprising that game developers have taken to augmenting simple racing games with the ability to make your motor look as though it had been redesigned by a blind drug dealer. Juiced takes this idea very seriously, giving you the chance to customise your car's vinyls, spoilers, ride-height and even neon under-lighting to earn yourself some respect in an underground    racing community. Unfortunately, to do this you also have to take part in the game's races, which are not only tortuously long and dull, but also feature some of the most blatant cheating by computer-controlled racers ever seen. You also have to bet on other races, which means waiting until every last straggler has dawdled past the finish: watching a coat of emulsion dry is more stimulating.Acclaim, £40DJ: Decks &amp; FXPlaystation 2DJ: Decks &amp; FX sets out to let you mix like a DJ without suffering the intervening decade spent alone in your bedroom forlornly trying to get beats to match on the SL-1200s you borrowed from a friend. And it does it brilliantly, with around 50 variously pounding and melodic house tunes, beats and a cappellas to select and mix together over two decks with a range of digital effects, all of which can then either be recorded or simply played as a never-ending set. Its beautifully elegant and instinctive controls make it possible to mix samples, drum loops and records as though you had grown up wearing one headphone, carrying flight cases and nodding sullenly at the back of nightclub dancefloors. For &#163;20 this would have been great: at &#163;40 it feels like somewhat poor value for money, but it still costs less than the real equipment.
Artist Gustav Metzger (gustav-metzger.wikiverse.org) recently had his piece Recreation Of First Public Demonstration Of Auto-Destructive Art thrown out by a cleaner at the Tate.Some modern art really is rubbish. Justin Gignac scours the streets of New York picking up trash which he places in clear plastic cubes in order to construct New York City Garbage Sculptures (www.nycgarbage.com) - a bargain at $50 each.One man's vandalism is another man's street art - Wooster Collective (www.woostercollective.com) documents the growing trend of wall stencilling, paintings on street furniture and posters like those by Dave (www.davewarnke.com) and Sums (www.scnc.co.uk/sums).Finally, anyone looking to exercise their artistic bent while bored at work can only be inspired by The Worsley Institute Of Blu-Tack art (www.worsley.freeuk.com) and the fan art at Trevor McDonalds fansite, Totally Trevor (trevor.skullthrone.net).
I got a nice posh letter from Sony today, inviting me to a press briefing at 8am next Tuesday. Realising the need to tempt recalcitrant journalists to work at this early hour, Sony are talking of a "major announcement". As much as I'd like it to be an unveiling of PS3 I'm guessing it will be something to do with PSTwo, the long rumoured redesign of the PS2. Please hope for my sake it isn't a repeat of the incredibly dull E3 conference - one presentation on the minutiae of Cell technology is more than enough.
It's Friday and I'm in love – with the Sims 2.Will Wright'sopus is finally released today. The sequel to the biggest selling PC game ever takes the basic concept of the Sims – guiding the lives of virtual people – to the next level, with genes, desire and death all included. But it's not all romance over the washing up, Silent Hill 4 and Final Fantasy XI are also out today…Sims 2PC, £39.99There's not a lot more that can be said that I didn't already sayhere. And that's especially true when you consider what a personal experience the Sims 2 offers. Everyone who plays it will create characters that have different stories – although adultery, rather worryingly, kept creeping up in mine. Just play it.Final Fantasy XIPC, £29.99 (plus monthly fee)The latest in the long-running Japanese role playing series is finally out in Europe, but this time round the action is online only. Players used to the weighty, and increasingly ludicrous, storylines of previous titles may be disappointed here. FFXI is a MMORPG (Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game) which means players have to kill monsters to level up, to kill more monsters with a bigger sword. Yes, this is the classic Everquest template, albeit with enough Final Fantasy touches tosatisfy the fans. And like most games in this genre the action is initially very addictive, especially when grouping with like-minded players. The emphasis is very much on teamwork though, so solo players be warned, FFXI forces you to group up. A nice touch is the universal language choice, which allows players to choose from a stock set of phrases. This allows Japanese and Western players to communicate with each other and brings back happy memories ofPhantasy Star Onlineon the Dreamcast.Silent Hill 4: The RoomPS2, Xbox, £39.99The latest in the long-running horror series, Silent Hill 4: The Room is slightly disappointing. The emphasis has shifted away from puzzles towards action, dulling the psychological edge of the previous games. The Room is solid enough, but won't be remembered as fondly as its predecessors.Resident Evil: OutbreakPS2, Xbox, £39.99Another disappointment is Resident Evil: Outbreak, the online version of the classic series that isn't actually online in Europe. Without this capability Outbreak is a bit of a mess, with the horrible controls feeling even worse than they used to. Blasting zombies is still enjoyable, but the lack of online grates, and contributes to an underwhelming release.Madden NFL 2005PS2, £39.99WWE: Day of ReckoningGC, £39.99Finally this week - two US-centric sports titles, Madden 2005 and WWE: Day of Reckoning. Both demand an appreciation of the sport concerned – of course, wrestling is anything but – but it's likely that the latter will be of more interest in the UK. That's unfair to Madden, which is a highly polished and typically slick EA Sports game.Next week sees the return of the Force as Star Wars Battlefront gets ready for duty.
"The US government should be prepared to spend freely if it decides to encourage "bounty hunters" to track down e-mail spammers, the US Federal Trade Commission said on Thursday,"Reuters has reported."Rewards of up to $250,000 will be needed to encourage people to turn over friends or associates who send out millions of deceptive e-mail pitches in violation of the law, the FTC said.""Lawmakers asked the FTC to assess whether the government should encourage "cybersleuths" to help track down marketers who break the law by sending out deceptive pitches for herbal Viagra, pornography or other forms of spam."
One of my favourite observations from theWomen's Game Conferencein Austin last week came from keynote speaker Kathy Schoback, VP Content Strategy at Infinium Labs, and ex-EIDOS and EA. In her rousing presentation titled "On Courage", she said, "In 1998Salon.comfeatured an article called 'Gaming Grows Up'. In 2002The Economistfeatured an article called 'Gaming Grows Up'. In 2003, Chickz.com featured an article called 'Gaming Grows Up'. And in October 2004,Playboy's centerfold piece was called'Gaming Grows Up'."Yes, the likes of Nina Williams fromTekken,Blood Raynefrom the game with the same name, those crazySingles, and Mileena fromMortal Kombathave stripped off for the glossy top shelf-er. How ironic that the mag was released while I was at the first North American conference to celebrate the contributions of women to the games industry. Doncha think?Find out more fromboing boingandCNN.Sex in computer games is nothing new - it's been around since beforeSam Fox Strip Pokerand the little-known Commodore 64 "simulation"Stroker. There's an interesting overview of the subject, albeit brief, atGameCritics.If anyone has anything to say on the subject, please pipe up. I'd like to know more.
Retro games collections are so yesterday. Retro hardware is where 'it's at' (is there a more cliched way to begin a retro-themed post? Oh sod it, it's friday). A few weeks ago Atari announced that it would launch a sleek new version of its eighties 7800 console in the States, under the new name,Atari Flashback, complete with 20 built-in games (including the never before released rarity, Saboteur).But much more exciting is the news that Sega Toys in Japan has just releasedMega Drive PlayTV, a re-styled Mega Drive with six classic titles including the original Sonic, Altered Beast and Golden Axe. It looks so cute, and has lovely little electric blue controllers.This seems to represent a new flavour of videogame nostalgia. A few years ago we were happy to download ROMs of all our favourite games from the WWW - but now we can play them on reincarnations of the original hardware. Does this provide a better gameplay experience? Or is this just about console fetishism?Whatever, I feel another top five coming on...Top five pieces of classic hardware that should be re-releasedApple IIEvery Appleophile should get the chance to experience the company's original mass-produced home computer, with its tappety-tap keyboard and noisy disk drive. It had some decent games too, including Zork, Ultima and, unless my memory banks have failed, the original version of Epyx's brilliant Summer Games.More info.The GEC/MB VectrexThis unique console, launched in 1982, came with a black and white monitor and used vector graphics, rather than the pixel-based graphics common to all other consoles. You could also slide coloured plastic overlays over the screen to give the effect of colour visuals. Would look great in any self-concious retro-chic appartment.More info.The PC EngineWhen I started work on Edge magazine back in 1995, this console was held in God-like esteem by then-editor Jason Brookes. Launched in 1987 by NEC, the console was only ever a cult machine in the west, but saw some stunning arcade conversions.More info.The SNK Neo GeoOriginally launched as a cartridge based system in 1991, this home version of SNK's MVS coin-op board brought arcade quality conversions of Samurai Shodown, Fatal Fury and King of Fighters to homes across the world. Well, homes with plenty of disposable income as the carts often cost between £80 and £100. An updated version of the console appeared in 1994, complete with a single speed CD drive (and famous juggling monkey loading screen). We had one of these in the Edge games room for many years and would break it out while on deadline to play Windjammers at four in the morning.More info.The Virtual BoyEveryone should get to experience the sheer eye-damaging fun of Nintendo's abortive 3D gaming device. Play Mario in red, blurry 3D! Suffer migraines like you never thought possible!More info.
In February this year Graham Coutts, a 35-year-old musician, was jailed for life for the murder of Jane Longhurst, a music teacher and one of his girlfriend's best friends. He had strangled her with a pair of tights, and kept her body in a storage unit for several weeks before setting fire to it.Longhurst's older sister, Sue Barnett, says she felt only contempt as she watched Coutts across the crowded court room in Lewes, East Sussex. "I remember staring at him when he was making up lies about Jane's death being an accident, as she took part in consensual sex with him, and just thinking what a truly pathetic specimen of humanity he was."Eighteen months after her death, Barnett is still coming to terms with the loss of her only sister. The two had become especially close, she says, when Jane was in her teens and began to look up to her for advice about career and life (Barnett, now 40, was eight years older). "Our house was always filled with music, as my dad was a jazz and classical musician. Both Jane and I played the violin when we were younger and she became a very talented viola player. In the end, however, she decided to teach. She loved her job and she looked on the pupils as 'her' children."It was music that had given her something in common with Coutts, a guitarist in a Who tribute band, and she was a regular visitor at the Hove flat he shared with his girlfriend - her good friend and former colleague, Lisa Stephens. "She was very open and trusting and would not have seen Graham as any threat because he was Lisa's partner," says Barnett. "I last saw her on March 2 &#91;2003&#93;, when she told me Graham and Lisa were expecting twins, and she was murdered on March 14."Longhurst's disappearance from her Brighton home in March last year sparked a massive police search. She was last seen by her partner, Malcolm Sentance, on the morning of March 14 as he left for work. It was a Friday, and she had the day off from her job at Uplands special needs school. Her body was discovered more than a month later, after a motorist spotted a corpse burning in woods near Pulborough, West Sussex.Initially, police were baffled by how well-preserved the body was. But following a tip-off from an   employee at the Big Yellow Storage Company in Brighton, they discovered that Coutts had hired a unit under another name and deposited a large white box there some weeks previously. Records showed that he had used his pin number to access the unit 10 times before trying to dispose of Longhurst's body. Inside the unit, police found a blood-stained rope and a condom containing traces of Coutts' semen and Longhurst's DNA, suggesting that he may have had sex with her corpse.During the trial it emerged that Coutts had an addiction to internet sites devoted to images of violence against women. The day before the murder, he had spent two hours on the internet, looking at sites dedicated to necrophilia. He visited these sites after the murder, and sometimes just minutes after visiting Longhurst's body.Coutt's predilection for violent sex and necrophiliac fantasies stretched back to his teens, long before he owned a computer. In the witness box, he conceded that he had had a fetish for women's necks since he was about 15, and had later become addicted to surfing the net for necrophilia.An ex-girlfriend, Sandra Gates, gave the court a graphic account of their violent sex life. He liked her to lie completely silent during sex, she said, while he tied tights and knickers around her neck, telling her they would improve her orgasms. "I never lost consciousness but I feared I would," said Gates, who claims she stayed with Coutts because she was extremely vulnerable and lonely after a divorce. After Coutts was sentenced, she told reporters that he had once admitted to her, "I get the most awful feelings that I am going to strangle, kill and rape a woman." She had tried to get him to seek help, she said, but he had cancelled a counselling session because the psychologist was a woman.Lisa Stephens, who gave birth to Coutts' twin sons while he was awaiting trial, has always maintained that they had a normal sex life - though she was aware of his asphyxia fantasies. She took the twins to see him in Belmarsh once before the trial, but their relationship ended soon after his arrest. She, too, has called for curbs on internet pornography.More than anything else, Barnett feels that it was Coutts' addiction to violent internet pornography that was the crucial factor in him committing murder. A definite connection between his internet use and the murder is difficult to establish, but Barnett believes that the accessibility of such websites fosters violent fantasies, as well as making it easier for people to convince themselves that such desires are somehow normal and acceptable. "If they view hundreds of these images day after day, they begin to see them as commonplace," she explains. "They become totally desensitised to the suffering of the women - and they realise that other men share their fantasies. It's then a much shorter step to actually carrying out those fantasies."Longhurst's family and friends were shocked to learn at the trial that such material is freely available on the internet - and appalled that there has been no clampdown since Coutts' conviction. The sort of sites he frequented, many of them accessible for free, feature lurid photographs of women being strangled and abused, detailed descriptions of necrophiliac acts, and grotesque claims that some women actually want to be strangled or have their throats cut as the ultimate sexual thrill. Viewers are able to discuss their "interests" via email and online message boards.The Internet Watch Foundation was established in 1996 following an agreement between government, police and internet service providers to promote voluntary self-regulation. But since many necrophilia sites are hosted by anonymous individuals outside the UK, it is difficult for the British authorities to take action; prosecutions under the Obscene Publications Act are possible only if a site is based in this country. The sites also tend not to feature child pornography, which is what galvanises much of the international effort to tackle internet pornography.Dr Julia Davidson, a criminologist at the University of Westminster who has carried out extensive research into sex offences, says that offenders' motivation is often shrouded in self-justification and denial. "In Coutts' case," she says, "this was obviously a long term, ongoing fantasy, which he then worked out how to turn into reality. He may well have been looking for a potential victim for some time, spotted Jane, and then developed strategies to target her."The internet does not create sex offenders, but it provides the perfect opportunity to indulge fantasises which play a big part in this type of offending. If it spurred someone to carry out a violent fantasy on even one occasion, that's once too many - and let's not forget, the women who appear on these websites are victims, too."Earlier this year, Barnett gave up her former job as a trainer at Hewlett Packard to set up and run the Jane Longhurst Trust, a campaign dedicated to closing down sexually violent websites. She aims to put pressure on internet service providers to close down or filter out these sites, and to persuade the authorities and people in all areas of the computer industry to promote internet safety.In March, Barnett met the home secretary David Blunkett to discuss her concerns. Following their meeting, Blunkett raised the issue with the US deputy attorney general Jim Comey in Washington, where a joint US-UK initiative to tackle violent sex sites was discussed. This week a Home Office spokesman said the government was looking at ways of strengthening the law, and was consulting the internet industry and other interested parties. While the government supports effective action in relation to sites hosted in foreign countries, the spokesman said, this could only be achieved through international cooperation.Barnett is also exploring the wider link between violent images and crime, compiling details of cases such as that of 17-year-old Warren Leblanc, who stabbed his friend, Stefan Pakeerah, 14, to death in Leicester in February after reportedly becoming obsessed with the computer game Manhunt. Her aim is to inform parents and other responsible adults of the dangers of unrestricted access to the internet and violent computer games."We're not saying the internet is a terrible thing," she says. "It's a wonderful facility, which provides great learning tools for children. But it would be hard to find anyone who does not agree that what's available has to be more closely monitored. There are all sorts of useful products on the market to restrict access, and we're talking to manufacturers and distributors with the aim of putting together a guide to buying and installing software."Throwing her energy into a campaign dedicated to her sister's memory is one way of working through her grief, but is she not allowing the murder to engulf her life?"I know there is a danger of that," she admits. "But no - I'm determined to work hard but to set boundaries. Personally, I feel it has increased my confidence and helped me communicate better."But I'm the kind of person, after hearing what we did in court about the part the internet played in Jane's murder, I couldn't stick my head in the sand. What's out there is not healthy and if there is a chance I can help to stop another woman being murdered, then I have to do this."&#183;For more information contactinfo@janelonghursttrust.org.uk
Dealing to dealersSecond-hand and antiquarian book dealers are seeing a flattening in retail prices because their sales are increasingly to other dealers (By the book, September 9). As more dealers go online, there's a growing "shift of inventory", whereby books are sold wholesale to places where they are most likely to sell. Retail prices for second-hand are buoyant and growing.For example, I am based in a small village in the south-east of Ireland. There are seven or eight internationally known authors who grew up or live around here. Prices for first editions and out-of-print titles keep rising, as people visiting &#91;the area&#93; demand that I find them books by these authors.In response to those dealers who need the titles that sell in their localities, I make the effort to be active and sell my stock to where demand truly exists. This is a simple redistribution of stock to the most likely point of sale - all facilitated by the internet.It's like a virtual car boot sale - you run around with your inventory, offering it at different places. All that's happening to online dealers is that the bulk of their customers are becoming other dealers, rather than Joe and Jane Public. Silly prices are laughed at or ignored, while realistic prices see an instant sale. The internet is great: easy profit and minimal costs.James HydeIrelandMac hyperboleI take issue with the claims of Apple fans (Feedback, September 9). First,   64-bit processors have been used in high-street PCs for months now, so Apple is hardly breaking new ground here! The new iMacs cost &#163;900-&#163;1,300 and contain a pitiful amount of memory and an awful graphics card. The exact same components are used in cheap, entry-level &#163;500 PCs.The Macs are woefully underpowered compared with a PC of similar cost, featuring a 64-bit processor of similar power plus four times as much memory and at least three times the graphics power.Michael HaleLeedsMissed opportunityWhat would be the ultimate consumer machine? Just have a look in a teenager's bedroom: stereo, DVD player, TV, console of some description and, of course, a computer. The new iMac should have been the answer to all this. Building a TV card in the iMac wouldn't be a problem. As for the PC and the console, Apple made a terrible mistake not acquiring Connectix's virtual PC emulator and PlayStation emulator. Not only would parents welcome the disappearance of all the extraneous kit, but Apple would get into the kids' bedroom - and that's where it all starts: once a Mac, always a Mac. Missed opportunities? I think so.Didier SajnoDorchesterCentral failingParsol isn't the only non-compliant government website (Feedback, September 9). Try the jobsearch page atwww.jobcentreplus.gov.ukin Netscape, Mozilla or Opera and no jobs are listed, as the in-line frames - which work in Internet Explorer - don't adhere to W3C standards. I emailed the Directgov Helpdesk about this and was told: "There are no international standards for websites but it is UK government policy that we endeavour to comply with the widely accepted recommendations of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)." Does this mean   that any less than widely accepted recommendations, such as those not favoured by Microsoft, are ignored? How does this square with the e-Envoy's 2002 statement that "the government will only use products that support open standards and specifications"?Chris ReadBurnham-on-SeaFree follyPaul Bird (Feedback, September 9) suggests that once free software is available, it is very hard to sell a similar product. He also suggests that governments should produce free software for this reason.First: OpenOffice and various Linux operating systems are available free. Microsoft continues to make the vast majority of its profit from sales of Office and Windows. Go figure.Second: Is he seriously suggesting that the UK government - with its, um, "sparkling" track record of IT projects - should invest significant resources (our money) in putting commercial software developers out of business and making their employees redundant? What a vote winner that would be! Not only that, but what happens when an overseas government takes offence at its software industry collapsing due to UK policy? Countries have gone to war for less.Antony HawkinsSheffieldJava platformIt's a little disingenuous to hold Java's "write once, run anywhere" mantra against it in the case of mobile phones (IT News, September 9). The phrase is applicable to an entire Java Compatibility Kit-compliant Java platform, not just the language; and as the item correctly notes, it is non-standard platform programming interfaces that are the cause of the problem.Mike WhittakerShropshire
I was recently taking part in one of those recurring and depressing duties that comes with adulthood - updating my will. This     onerous task is obviously bothering a few people at the moment, because while I was going through the dreary process, I read a     few articles raising a question that had occurred to me but hadn't had time to think about: to whom should I leave my data - and     access to it?It wasn't mentioned in the booklet of sample will elements I was using. That covered topics such as houses and kids, but it should     have had additional specimen clauses along these lines: "I leave the 100GB external Firewire drive containing all of my emails     and the back-ups of all of my personal documents, my iPhoto library and my iTunes to my wife. This volume was encrypted by Mac     OS X using AES-128 and the password is the name of the band we saw together on our first date followed by the age of our first     female cat when she died."This may seem silly, but could become a serious problem in the future. My wife will need my username and password for Barclays,     BT, British Airways and our family blog - and there was nothing about that in the booklet, either.It's the same with the home wireless network, mail accounts, Amazon or anything else. And in the past day or so, I've looked     through email that's a couple of years old to find the serial number for some software I reinstalled and the address of a friend.This stuff is important. Without officially passing on this information, it could become lost - and with it, access to hordes of data     that is becoming increasingly crucial to our everyday lives.It's not hard to see how our legacy becomes less physical as more of our world moves online: soon our virtual goods and chattels     may be worth more than our real ones.Then there's the question of work. At the office, sensitive emails are encrypted and signed using PGP or S/MIME. If I happen to     fall under the proverbial bus, how will that data be recovered?      I have a back-up of my PGP keyring - but without the passphrase, it's useless. So should I put the passphrase in my will and     bequeath it to our IT manager? Or should he arrange for all of our back-up keyrings and passphrases to go into escrow now?While it would make good corporate sense to escrow encryption keys, I don't want to leave behind this information to somebody     else because there's no way I will let it out of my control.      Now look forward a few years. All of my email (both at work and at home) is signed and encrypted using key pairs bought from a     post office and kept, not in my will, but on my national ID card. Access to these keys requires my fingerprint, which nobody else     has.All of my files are encrypted as well. So how is anyone going to access the book I was working on, my letter to the bank or that     picture of the kids once my ID card is cut up and in landfill? When I'm gone, access to that information will be gone, too, unless     we plan for such an eventuality now.
Until recently, satellite navigation systems were the preserve of owners of luxury cars and the odd mini-cab driver. There are signs, however, that global positioning systems (GPS) are going mainstream, with analysts Canalys predicting that sales of units this year could be up to three times the 776,000 devices sold last year.Much of the growth has been fuelled by competitively priced GPS-based systems for PDAs, such as the Navman PiN. However, just as the PDA is being superseded by the smartphone, so GPS manufacturers are jockeying to develop systems compatible with high-end Symbian and Windows Mobile-based phones.So is GPS for cars set to be the next must-have feature for mobiles?Martin Capel-Smith, European marketing manager of Navman - which this week unveiled a trio of standalone GPS devices - says that to work effectively, in-car satellite systems need "a large colour display, ample memory, a strong integrated GPS receiver, a fast processor and good-quality speakers".Existing systems, such as the &#163;200 Tom Tom Mobile and &#163;200 Route 66, work in a similar way to the ones used on PDAs. They team a phone that displays map software with a matchbox-sized receiver/transmitter that passes data from the satellites to the phone wirelessly via Bluetooth. Users are given directions via a mixture of onscreen 3D maps and voice instructions. The Tom Tom works with the Nokia 6600 and Orange SPV E200 phones: the Route 66 is compatible with most Symbian-based handsets.Both systems deliver reasonably clear maps, easy-to-follow vocal instructions and are quick to offer a re-route should you make a wrong turn. The Route 66 also lets users know via GPRS if there are roadworks and how to avoid them.The trouble with smartphone systems is that screens are too small to deliver a clear picture and - unless they are integrated into a car speaker system - it is hard to hear instruc-tions over the noise of the engine.New developments are just around the corner, however. Phones with hard disks large enough to house maps of continents, and more sophisticated graphics chips, such as the NVIDIA GoForce 3D capable of delivering 3D maps, are being worked on.According to Johan Othelius, Openwave's director of corporate development, the phone's trump card could be the widespread arrival of 3G networks. "With 3G, users will be able to instantly download a map of an area or their route on to their mobile. The maps will also update in real time to highlight traffic problems."UK network 3 already sells phones with integrated AGPS, a version of GPS where the satellite information is enhanced by data from the network. Other networks have been trialling similar devices with Openwave and are working on a range of applications. The day when your phone guides you around town, and takes you to a free parking space, might not be far away.www.navman.co.ukwww.66.comwww.tomtom.com
Moving eyesHow do people read web pages? You can find out a lot by following their eyes. That's what the Eyetrack III research project has done, and the Poynter Institute has now published the results online. The results are based on 46 people in San Francisco reading news sites, either real or mocked up and, as the report stresses, this is the beginning, not the end of the story. Many of the findings are not surprising: for example, people look at the top left first, are more likely to read short sentences than long ones, and spend more time on big pictures than small ones. Some are less obvious, such as the fact that people look at text before images.www.poynterextra.orghttp://poynter.org/contentStarters"Call me Ishmael" was a wonderful opening line for a novel, as long as you hadn't read two dozen westerns that started "Call me Hank". I still think Melville's effort from Moby-Dick, is better than "Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Four shots ripped into my groin," from Max Shulman's Sleep Till Noon, but that's currently number one at Opening Hooks, a website devoted to "literary beginnings". If you know any better opening lines, you can enter them into the database, or just rate what's already there.www.openinghooks.usMoving peopleMan has always dreamed of finding better ways to get from place to place, and in recent times that has involved all sorts of horseless carriages,   amphibious cars, flying saucers, pneumatic subways and monorails. (Nasa is still thinking about flying cars.) In Transportation Futuristics, the Harmer E Davis Transportation Library at the University of California, Berkeley, has produced a wonderful online exhibition of these visionary vehicles. It has several sections such as Auto, Helicopter, GEM (Ground Effect Machines) and ITS (Intelligent Transportation Systems), but no spaceships. The web design is horrible but it would make a nice little book.www.lib.berkeley.edu/news_eventshttp://msnbc.msn.com/id/5750922Meeting peopleThe web is obviously a good place for people to share their thoughts and get things done, but there are not many good ways to do that. Stanford University researchers are tackling that problem by developing Deme, a "web-based platform for online deliberation" hosted at Groupspace.org. Yes, it's a conferencing system. It is being developed as part of a research partnership with the East Palo Alto Community Network, but there are a few groups you can try without registering or creating an account. You can also download the open source software for Lamp (Linux/Apache/ MySQL/PHP) servers, but bear in mind it's still at the alpha stage.www.groupspace.orgwww.stanford.edu/~davies/deme-principles.pdfSuicide preventionThis month, a World Health Organisation report revealed that about a million people committed suicide in 2000, which is more than are killed in all the world's armed conflicts. In most European countries, the death toll is higher than from road traffic accidents. The suicide rate varies dramatically between countries, and the WHO is trying to reduce it. The report was released ahead of last week's World Suicide Prevention Day. For more links, see Six of the best, below.www.who.int/__utm.jsWotbox?You probably don't use the Wotbox search engine, which offers in-page site previews, because it is still in development and "the size of the index has intentionally been kept down to only 10m selected priority pages", as the site says. On the other hand, Wotbox has just launched eight international versions, including France, Germany and the UK, to illustrate its "advanced 'country specific' query engine". If you want to create a search engine for your country, you now know one place to go. Of course, if you really want to be ahead of the game in search, try things like ComeToMyHead and Blabble.www.wotbox.co.ukhttp://roquefort.di.unipi.it/news-binwww.blabble.comNew &amp; notedRemembering 9/11http://911livingmemorial.orgBirth of the Bluetooth Botswww.thefeature.com/article?Ex-bunnies reunitedwww.explayboybunny.comSix of the best:Suicide preventionThe Samaritanswww.samaritans.org.ukSuicide and Crises helplineswww.suicide-helplines.orgInternational Association for Suicide Preventionwww.med.uio.no/iaspMind factsheetswww.mind.org.uk/Information/Factsheets/SuicideUS Suicide Prevention Resource Centerwww.sprc.orgSobs (Survivors of Bereavement by Suicide)www.uk-sobs.org.uk
The bishop of Manchester is using the internet to encourage people to come back to church. The Right Rev Nigel McCulloch is asking people to take part in an online questionnaire telling him why they have stopped going to church and how they could be encouraged to return.Researchers from the University of Wolverhampton will assess the trial.Bishop McCulloch said yesterday: "There are a lot of people who we feel are missing ... We feel that if people are personally invited, then they will come back."He said figures suggested congregations had increased by 7% among the under 16s and by 2% in adults. But he said there were more adults who wanted to come back.The back to church Sunday is on September 26 with 156 churches in the diocese participating. Welcome bags have been produced containing Fairtrade chocolate.
No matter how fast your computer, you'll find it grinding to a halt every now and again as you try to do too many demanding things at once. You could add more processors, but that means more heat and more complexity. Processors keep getting faster, but the rest of your hardware isn't keeping up - and there's still a limit to how much they can do. Is this a time when two heads are better than one?Last week's Intel Developer Forum in San Francisco saw the chip giant follow in the footsteps of Sun and AMD by announcing a processor road map that includes multiple-core technologies. Multi-core chips are an approach that means much more bang for your IT buck, but it's also one that needs new hardware, new operating systems and - in some cases - new application software before you will see real benefits. It will also need a new approach to software licensing from the IT industry.Multiple-core chips are just what you would expect: several processor cores on a single die. It's an approach that chip designers find attractive, because it means they can improve performance by adding extra cores, rather than by developing chips that operate at ever higher clock frequencies. It's also an approach that gets   around one of the biggest bottlenecks in system design: memory speed. There's little point in ramping up processor speed if memory chips can't receive or deliver data quickly enough to keep up.At IDF, Intel demonstrated systems running with a sample version of its Montecito chip. A next-generation Itanium, this is a dual-core system with each chip handling four separate threads. Getting Montecito into production will be a massive undertaking, with each chip containing more than 1.7bn transistors. However, Intel is promising significant performance gains, especially for scientific computing.High performance systems such as Nasa's Project Columbia supercomputer should see the greatest benefit from Montecito, and this may be where Itanium will finally find its niche. Columbia is a Linux system based around SGI's Altix platform,   and uses more than 3,000 Itanium 2 processors, with a total of more than 10,000 planned. It is used to handle complex simulations such as predicting the weather. Switching Columbia from Itanium 2 to Montecito will add significant amounts of computing power - even pre-production chips give a 1.5x to 2x performance boost. A multi-core Columbia could help Nasa keep ahead of Caribbean hurricanes at the same time as putting the Shuttle into space and getting man back on the moon.So what about multi-core for the rest of us? Pentium 4 and Xeon chips will go the same way, as will Intel's low power ARM-based XScale processors, used in PDAs and smartphones. Intel is planning to ship its first dual-core chips for desktops and servers in 2005, and predicts that by 2006 more than 40% of new desktop PCs, more than 85% of new servers, and more than 70% of mobile systems will use dual- and multi-core chips. Meanwhile, AMD is promising dual-core Opteron processors for the middle of next year, with desktop chips coming in the second half.Even if the real world doesn't match the PowerPoint slides, we are going to see a big change in the technologies that power the computers around us over the next two years.You will be able to run all your   programs faster. Alternatively, you could use a dual-core PC to virtually separate work and play, and even trap viruses and malware before they damage your data. Don't worry about processor-intensive 3D user interfaces in future versions of Windows: you could devote a whole core to running them if necessary.Then there's the environment to think about. Dual-core processors can run cooler than a ramped-up single-core system, and will also keep power requirements down.Technologies that Intel developed for the mobile Centrino chips manage each core, and allow lower power use by turning cores on and off as needed. If your PC isn't busy, you could find it's only using one core, or that both cores in a dual-core chip are operating at different clock speeds and voltages. With laptop-style power management, a dual- core system should therefore be more economical to run than today's desktop computers.Apple and AMD have touted the idea of the "megahertz myth", pointing out (correctly) that processor   performance is more than just clock speed. Dual-core is another way of delivering more power for the same number of clock cycles, and Intel has now converted to this way of thinking. It is talking about "pervasive parallelism" as a key to the next wave of IT spending - and the next generation of the web.The first production Intel dual-core processors for general purpose use are unlikely to support the hyper-threading found in Pentium 4 and Xeon today, which, to an extent, already enables one processor to work as though it were two. There's no technological reason why Intel's multi-core chips shouldn't also support hyper-threading, and it is part of the Montecito design. However, there may be licensing issues with operating systems. Even a Windows XP Professional Edition license only supports two processors, and Windows sees each thread in a hyper-threaded system as a separate processor.Intel says it is talking to software vendors but the early days of multi-core licensing are likely to be a minefield for the end user - especially if your new four-way, four-core server suddenly turns into a 16-CPU system when it comes to licensing your enterprise software. It could quadruple software costs overnight.Operating systems will need to be modified to handle the new chips with their expanded instruction sets, and developers will need to learn how to take advantage of the new features. While most applications will work out of the box, the enhanced languages needed to take advantage of parallelism are still on the drawing board. Microsoft's Cambridge Research Lab has released an experimental language, Comega, which makes handling the many possible processing threads in a complex multi-core system easy to understand.Intel is developing a hardware-based virtual machine monitor to help tools such as VMware and Virtual PC take advantage of hardware, rather than patching operating systems. Other Intel technologies planned for multi-core chips are intended to make processors work well with secure code, and to help management tools control desktop PCs and servers - even if they've had a catastrophic hardware failure. But you may need to wait for the next version of Windows, Longhorn, to get the most out of next-generation processors.The arrival of PC dual-core processors will mean a new generation of more powerful, cooler and more economical PCs. And that can't be bad.
Wi-Fi to the MaxIntel expects the WiMax wide-area wireless networking standard to challenge conventional broadband. WiMax promises to provide wireless bandwidth equivalent to wired broadband over an area of up to 30 miles. Sample Intel chips based on the 802.11-2004 standard are being incorporated into equipment ready for release next year, the company says. It is estimated that WiMax customers will be able to buy modems for around &#163;100 and install them themselves. A major application will be to provide 75Mbps networks in rural areas where terrestrial broadband is not available. Within three years, these WiMax islands will be bridged to provide a network that will allow roaming from one zone to another.www.intel.com/netcomms/technologies/wimaxPatient progressNorth Hampshire Hospitals NHS Trust is simplifying patient care by integrating standalone databases into a central networked system. This will simplify maintenance and make it easier to gain a clearer picture of a patient's history with the hospital. It will also reduce the time wasted in duplicated data entry. The index is based on the trust's iSoft Patient Manager system, because this is known to hold an accurate record of 350,000 patients and their validated NHS number. This has already been combined with the operating theatre management system, Sapphire Theatre. Using SeeBeyond's eGate Integrator as the main engine, the project is now moving on to merge information from its pharmacy records.www.northhampshire.nhs.ukHelpful hubsDell is opening IT support hubs to improve service delivery worldwide. Primarily, the hub staff will assist Dell's corporate server, storage and workstation customers to maintain and repair their systems, but it will also handle smaller business queries and some consumer problems. The move follows   the establishment of two Enterprise Command Centres (ECCs) in Texas and China. Later this year, Dell will open a European centre in Limerick, Eire, and an Asia-Pacific operation in Japan. The ECCs will focus on their local areas, but incident reports will be shared to ensure consistency of service worldwide, says Dell.http://www1.us.dell.com/content/topics/global.aspx/services/en/eccHeal thy selfIBM is shipping a self-tuning version of its DB2 Universal Database. This 8.2 release marks another step on the path towards the company's goal of "autonomic computing", or self-healing systems. IBM claims the new features will reduce the management overhead for the database and reduce downtime. Automatic design and optimisation of the basic database structure is supported, while table maintenance and data backups are handled by another module. If the database fails, it will automatically fail-over to a back-up server. Another feature is the Learning Optimizer, which monitors query response times and maps out the quickest route to requested data.www-306.ibm.com/software/data/db2/udb/v82Spot finderIt can be hard to find a handy Wi-Fi wireless hotspot when travelling, but Mobile Commerce and Multimap have devised a solution. The companies have designed an SMS mobile phone service, Storefinder, for retailers hoping to lead customers to their door, but their first customer is the hotspots directory, Totalhotspots.com. Users send a keyword to the service in an SMS message, geopositioning locates the sender, the nearest hotspot is found, then detailed directions are sent in a return message. Totalhotspots was formed earlier this year with the aim of providing information on every hotspot in the world. The company already claims to hold details of all the major Wi-Fi centres in the UK.www.multimap.com/static/business2.htmDual for mobileIntel plans to release a new version of its Centrino mobile computing platform early next year. Codenamed Sonoma, it will include Pentium M processors with faster (533MHz) front-side buses. This will be followed by the Napa platform, which will feature a new dual-core mobile processor, codenamed Yonah. Since the main problem with mobile computing is battery life, Intel is also working on new battery and battery management technologies. Anand Chandrasekher, from Intel's Mobile Platforms Group, says the goal is "to achieve &#91;an&#93; eight-hour battery life by 2010". Presumably Yonah and Merom will, like the Centrino's Banias chip, be developed by Intel in Israel, hence the shift from codenames based on North American rivers (Foster, Northwood, Gallatin, McKinley, Madison), preferably in Oregon (Willamette, Deschutes, Deerfield, Klamath, Tualatin).
Buying a home under English law is one of the most stressful life experiences we undergo voluntarily. For three years, the government has promised to reduce one of these stresses - and causes of expense - by putting online the process of conveyancing. That promise, which figured in the 2001 Queen's Speech, has now taken a step closer to reality.The government's Land Registry this month invited companies to bid for a contract to supply IT systems to allow e-conveyancing. The prime contractor will supply systems to electronically manage the procedures for buying, selling and registering a property.If all goes well, a pilot service is to begin in early 2006, just outside the government's December 2005 deadline for all public services to be e-enabled. After that, the Land Registry says, an "incremental process of national rollout" will take place during 2007.The equivalent Scottish project, called e-registration, is due to go live in October 2006, according to the agency Registers of Scotland."When it comes to the delivery of public services, e-conveyancing is one of the government's highest priorities," said David Lammy, the minister responsible, last month.The new system will gradually replace current procedures, where hundreds of staff enter information into the registry's database from forms submitted on paper. It the largest of its kind in the world, processing property worth &#163;1m every minute.Before e-conveyancing goes live, however, several concerns need to be addressed. One worry is security.   Access to the service will be via " public and private channels", the agency says. This means that, potentially, large numbers of solicitors and conveyancing firms will have access to systems that register the ownership of a property.Solicitor Ken Byass, chair of the Law Society's electronic law committhey say they are, or is it some pirate in Russia?"Adequate security controls, based on digital signatures, may be too complex for everyday use, Byass says. "We have concerns that by the time it's finished, it will be so difficult that the process might as well stick to paper."E-conveyancing is also likely to show up shortcomings in existing databases of land and property. These are updated by individual local authorities and often contain inaccurate or out-of-date data.One council that cleaned up data recently found inconsistencies in the names of 40 streets, 1,100 buildings, 5,800 postcodes and even two towns. The exercise raised &#163;150,000 a year in council tax from addresses the council previously didn't know about.One problem is that there is no up-to-date national list of streets. Many stretches of road are not named, and are described in different ways for different purposes.Likewise, there is no complete list of addresses in Britain with all the data that would be needed by conveyancing systems. Three organisations hold   separate lists of properties, all containing different sets of information. They are the Ordnance Survey, the Royal Mail and the Local Government Information House, a commercialorganisation run by local authorities. Attempts to create a single database have foundered because each organisation earns income from its data, and argues that this cash flow is essential for maintaining its database.In 2002, a multi-agency project called Acacia set out to develop "a single national infrastructure for Great Britain of definitive addresses and related property information and mapping to support thousands of key services from government and business".One of its aims was to tackle the problems of dealing with inconsistencies in addresses, and of objects without postal addresses, such as church halls and public conveniences. Another was to see if a single register could be created by matching data within existing databases.The conclusion, quietly posted on the web earlier this year, was that there is no way forward until commercial and intellectual property issues are resolved. It recommended this be done "as a matter of urgency".Although officials at the Land Registry believe they can go ahead without a new national addresses database, some experts are worried."We need to agree what the definitive list is," says Adrian McKeon, managing director of Infoshare, a firm specialising in cleaning up government data. "If this hasn't been agreed, then how can we be sure e-conveyancing can work?" McKeon estimates that about 85% of addresses held electronically will be accurate. "The issue is to know whether a piece of data is good or bad."
Earlier in the year, Sharp and Nokia upped the ante in the phone market by offering handsets with one megapixel cameras. Now O2 claims to have taken the camera phone market that bit further with the X3, a clamshell phone that is the first in the UK with a 1.3 megapixel camera.Just like O2's previous X-series models, the X3 is tiny, so chubby fingers will struggle with its small and slightly inflexible keys. Despite its size, the X3 is well specified, with an MP3 player, games and a video camera among key features. However, there is no Bluetooth or POP3 email.Unlike rival phones, it is easy to transfer images from the phone to a PC as O2 supplies a USB lead. The images can also be stored on its accompanying 32MB mini SD card.Sadly, it is the X3's headline feature that lets it down. Even with an extra third of a megapixel, the images taken by the phone were grainy and lacking in colour. The phone costs from nothing to &#163;200, depending on contract.www.O2.co.uk
Mobile phonesBlue AngelFour of the UK's mobile phone networks are to offer subscribers the same Windows-based smartphone. The Blue Angel, made by HTC of Taiwan, will be available next month as the MDA III (T-Mobile), XDA IIs (O2), VPA III (Vodafone) and M2000 (Orange). It keeps the Windows Mobile 2003 Phone Edition operating system and 2.5in 65k colour 240x320 display screen of its predecessor, the O2 XDA II, but adds a pull-down Qwerty keyboard. Other features include integrated Wi-Fi, a 400MHz Intel XScale PXA263 processor, 128MB of RAM and 64MB of Flash Rom.Store attractionSamsung has become the first manufacturer to unveil a mobile phone that features an integrated hard disk. Available next month in Korea, the SPH-V5400 sports a one-inch 1.5GB hard disk, which users can fill up with MP3 music files, images taken by the phone's integrated one megapixel camera, or video they have transferred from a PC or recorded from a TV. Samsung is considering a worldwide launch of a version of the phone for early next year. Meanwhile, Hitachi is teaming up with Intel to develop an interface technology for hard disks on mobile phones. The new standard, dubbed CE-ATA (Consumer Electronics-Advanced Technology Attachment), is designed to be easier to use and consume less power than existing interfaces.www.samsung.comPC peripheralsTouch and goMicrosoft has launched a range of PC peripherals with built-in fingerprint recognition, a mini-mouse for notebook users, and some more comfortable keyboards. The fingerprint recognition systems let users log on to websites and other services with one touch, or switch between users in Windows XP, without typing in names and passwords. They include mice and keyboards and a stand-alone fingerprint pad. Microsoft says they are aimed at convenience rather than security.   Prices range from &#163;60 to &#163;100.The small wireless notebook optical mouse looks handy: it has a slot in the bottom to hold the receiver. You plug this into a USB port on your notebook PC and it works with the mouse up to a metre away. It runs for about three months on one AA battery, and costs &#163;40. The &#163;80 Microsoft Wireless Optical Desktop package includes keyboard and mouse. The keys are angled to provide a more comfortable typing position than a flat keyboard, but without the split that puts people off using proper ergonomic keyboards such as the Microsoft Natural. The new keyboard also has a slider that can be used for zooming images and applications, and extra hot keys for My Favourites.Microsoft's Bluetooth desktop pack ages and fingerprint systems require Windows XP. The Wireless Optical Desktop and wireless notebook mouse also work with Macs running OS X (10.1 and above).HardwareTop gearBoy racers can now get their hands on a new, more powerful Ferrari-branded laptop from the Italian racing team's sponsor, Acer. If you can brave the bright red carapace and badges, it's not a bad looking piece of hardware - and, as you'd expect, it's fast. The 3200 model (&#163;1,239 exc VAT) sports a speedy Athlon 64 processor, but downsides include tinny sound and an clumsy trackpad. Ultimately, though, what's under the bonnet is coincidental: the real question is whether a Ferrari laptop has the same brand power as the car. Instinct says it doesn't, but formula one fans might beg to differ.Stat of the week Wired worldMost connected countriesThe US has the most net users, but which country is the best connected? Comparing population size with connections shows the small but perfectly wired population of Iceland ahead by a country mile. Only South Korea gives Scandinavia a run for its money.Iceland - 99%South Korea - 74%Denmark - 69%Sweden - 69%Norway - 67%Australia - 66%Canada - 64%United States - 64%Source:Computer Industry Almanac
