On this week's Tech Weekly,Aleks KrotoskiandJemima Kissbrighten up the dark winter nights with two people who are trying the make the world a better place.Joi Itois the chief executive ofCreative Commons, a not-for-profit organisation that is tackling head on the challenges of intellectual property and copyright ownership in a digital age. Joi argues that permissive licences, which allow people to share creative and other materials, are good for innovation.  There's more from Joi inthis week's Science Weekly podcastand in theObserver's Discover section.Toby Barneswants to make the daily commute fun, rather than a slog. His company,Mudlark, is "game-ifying" the London public transport system withChromaroma, drawing out connections, creating challenges and reaffirming community on the bus, the tube, the train and the cycle. Is it a capital-wide group hug or harbinger of an incentivisation culture?Even the news gets a makeover, so listen to 30 minutes of sunshine in the depth of midwinter.Don't forget to ...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Until last week, any computing futurologist would tell you that cloud computing is where it's at. You don't need to know where your data is being stored; it's just on a computer, or more likely computers, Out There On The Internet. Thus Amazon, with itsEC2 ("Elastic Cloud Compute") service, or Microsoft with its Azure service, or the most familiar example, Google, with its GoogleMail and Google Docs services, which are used by thousand of companies around the world. (Disclosure: the Guardian uses Google Docs and Mail, and Amazon's EC2 system for its API.)Indeed, the prestigious Pew Research Centersaid in Junethat "solid majority of technology experts and stakeholders participating in the fourth future of the internet survey expect that by 2020 most people will access software applications online and share and access information through the use of remote server networks, rather than depending primarily on tools and information housed on their individual, personal computers" and that "most users will perform most computing and communicating activities through connections to servers operated by outside firms".We already do, to a large extent: Google's search index lives in the cloud; lastminute.com, TripAdvisor, toptable.com, they're all a "cloud" service. What has been changing in the past few years is that individuals and companies have been able to upload their own content onto those computers – hence the explosion in size of Facebook, Flickr, YouTube and Twitter, none of which generate their own content. It all lives in the cloud, where one organisation offers the servers and another offers the software that interfaces to the content.Last week though the premise behind cloud computing began looking a bit creaky. On Wednesday,Amazon dropped the contents of WikiLeaksthat had been hosted on its EC2 service. In avery po-faced message, Amazon said that it wasn't thehackers' DDOS attacksthat had prompted the move ("those were successfully defended against") but that WikiLeaks was "not following" its terms of service.Terms of service? Since when did Amazon have the time to decide whether every one of the companies it offers is following its terms of service? And why were theWikiLeaks warlogsall right to be hosted on Amazon EC2, yet cables aren't?Since then every DNS, which offered a free service so that if you typed "wikileaks.org" into a browser it would direct your computer to the site, has dropped WikiLeaks too, citing the DDOS attack – though strangely it didn't find that a problem while the service was hosted on Amazon. Other American companies, and one Swiss bank, have rattled after them.Is that it, then, for cloud computing? Has WikiLeaks shown that cloud computing will eventually rain on any sufficiently authority-challenging parade?The reality is that anyone who manages to get under the skin of governments as effectively as Julian Assange and the WikiLeaks team have done will test the limits of government, and hence commercial tolerance. To see how, do some thought experiments around WikiLeaks. First, imagine that it was leaking /Chinese/ diplomatic cables, telling us what the Chinese thought of the world around them – the wars, the mineral buyups in foreign countries, the hacking attacks against American search engines.Would you be happy with that? You probably would. Now imagine that the leaks were being hosted on servers controlled by Baidu.com, which in China has a larger share of the search market than Google. Still OK?It might be uncomfortable for Baidu, because the Chinese government licenses every web company. But we'd be enjoying the discomfiture of the Chinese, wouldn't we?Next imagine that Baidu takes them down, saying that they break its terms of service, which are that you can't have content that the government deems harmful to the state. Spineless Baidu! Wicked Chinese!That might come to pass. But in the meantime, precisely that – though involving American, rather than Chinese, content – has come to pass. The list of American-owned companies that have shunned WikiLeaks this week is astonishing, added to today by Visa and Mastercard.It doesn't mean that cloud computing is a bust; more and more companies will continue to move their data to the cloud, urged on by Google and Microsoft (the latter is preparing a strong push to move clients cloudwards next year). But it does mean that it has not broken free of politics; and possibly the net never will. The interesting next move would be whether the Chinese government will offer to host the WikiLeaks cables – a move that Assange and his team may think goes slightly too far.In the meantime, though, thecables will continue to circulate on file-sharing systems, especially Bittorrent– which are the ultimate in cloud computing, consisting of an ad-hoc network of users' PCs which have a copy of the main file and pass anyone who wants it a little piece, so that they can't be shut down. Commercial cloud computing is what it says it is – commercial, and so vulnerable to political and commercial pressures. But file-sharing is turning out to be the really resistant form where,as John Naughton points out, the only way to stop it is to turn off the internet. And not even the American, or even Chinese governments, seems ready to countenance that just yet.
"What will we do," asked Bill Thompsonrecently, "when the next WikiLeaks hoard is every Twitter DM [direct message] or Facebook chat transcript?"That's unlikely to happen, of course. Julian Assange's team are more concerned with internationalaffairsthan bothering the millions of casual Twitterers. If you're not on the public stage, the chances are that you're just not notable enough for Wikileaks.Of course, there are still plenty of folks that would cause chaos in suburbia if they could, just for the laughs. I'm a little closer to this subject than most – because I can read your private Twitter messages.Well, maybe not yours, specifically. But the odds are good that – if I wanted to – I could look through the direct messages of several of the people who'll read this.A few months ago, after Twitter had implementedits OAuth authorisation system, I was hired to put together a Twitter toy application – one of those little web pages that offers some sort-of-interesting statistic about your tweets, as long as you log in with your Twitter account. Of course, it then invites you to tweet that statistic out to your friends – along with a link and a small advertising message.The trouble is that Twitter's authorisation process makes no distinction between small toys like that and big applications likeTweetDeckthat handle your entire account. Toys only need to read public messages and perhaps tweet once, but usually request, and are being given "read and write" permission, which means they can do every action Twitter can provide an authorised user: the power to change profile pictures, follow and block users, and – crucially – read direct messages. Changing your password doesn't lock them out either; you need to explicitlyrevoke their access.So if I wanted to, I could use the authorisations given to the toy application to download the direct messages of all of its thousands of users. I'm not going to, of course – it's illegal and unethical – but curiosity is a powerful thing. Imagine a web page that simply asks "Whose inbox would you like to read?". Would you trust everyone you know not to use it? How about everyone they know? What if the attack had already been performed by someone else, and they'd actively leaked those messages to the world – would you still be able to resist seeing what was in your friends' inboxes if the damage was already done?Using existing applications' permissions isn't the only potential attack. Toy applications with poor security could provide a back door into people's Twitter accounts without their creators' knowledge. And those with espionage on their minds could create an application that works as advertised until it sees a particular user; the world's millions of inboxes might not be of interest, but specific ones might be.Bill Thompson's WikiLeaks scenario, where every Twitter DM is somehow released, is unlikely. But without wanting to scaremonger, I'd say that unless Twitter starts using granular, Facebook-like authorisation, it's a matter of when – not if – an application goes rogue. Mischief isn't a strong motivator for releasing personal data (the risks are too high) but it only takes one script-kiddie cracker with a desire for notoriety, and suddenly The Pirate Bay is serving "two-million-twitter-DMs.rar" to anyone who's interested.The bottom line is this: almost every Twitter application you authorise, no matter how trivial, has near-complete control over your account. This is not a newrevelation, but it still takes a lot of people by surprise. If you haven't recently checked the Connectionspageof your Twitter account to see which applications you've authorised, you should. And revoke them unless you're certain you want to take the risk of them going rogue at some point.• Tom Scott's web site is at tomscott.com; he's on Twitter at@tomscott
"What first attracted you, Debbie, to the millionaire Paul Daniels?", Mrs Merton once famously asked Debbie McGee. So given Ireland's notoriously low corporate tax regime, what was it that attracted Facebook to set up its international headquarters alongside every other tax-efficient multinational in Dublin?Colm Long, Facebook's director of online operations, oversees operations and global ads policy from the base in Dublin. Since the office opened in December 2007 with a small team including four staff relocated from the US, Facebook now has 200 staff in Dublin - mostly ad sales, account management and platform operations, who work with developers. Within the next 12 months, Long tells the Guardian, Facebook will recruit another 100 staff in Dublin, expanding all those teams.Facebook's director of online operations Colm Long. Photo bychannelshipon Flickr.Some rights reservedMore than 75 multinational tech firms havenow established an international basein Dublin, including Hewlett Packard, Microsoft, Facebook, Google, Amazon and Intel, attracted by Ireland's corporate tax. Despite protestations from Germany and other EU countries who have contributed billions to Ireland's bailout package, the rate looks likely to stay at 12.5%. By usingaccounting methodsthat see taxable profits routed through various European countries, companies can reduce their tax level to as little as 2.4% – though in the UK and US, corporate tax peaks at 28% and 35% respectively.How about that corporate tax rate?Few companies are prepared to discuss the issue, aware of the heightened public sensitivity over the tax arrangements of high-profile companies. Does Long recognise that sensitivity? "Yes. But I can't comment on that," he said. Guardian Tech had been told of the "brass plaque" phenomenon – companies setting up an official but lightly staffed base. Facebook is expected to see revenue rise to $1bn next year, according to eMarketer, and if the company is benefiting from Ireland's "tax efficiencies", isn't it obliged to contribute in other ways?"If we continue to execute well we can create really meaningful employment opportunities for graduates," said Long. "The should be some sense of optimism that they don't have to emigrate for opportunities.""This is not a very popular thing to say, but we've seen time and time again that we can go in and have conversations with the Irish government to solve problems ... there's often more bureaucracy in other countries."Dublin. Photo byUggBoy♥UggGirlon Flickr.Some rights reservedLong joined Facebook in January 2009, one month after the Dublin office opened, but had already spent more than four years at Google's Irish base, most recently as director of operations for EMEA. From his experience at Google, said Long, he knew Dublin's strengths in quickly building multilingual teams with strengths in problem solving."Ireland is very business friendly – you can get talent quickly not just from Ireland but from abroad ... Other countries are tightening up on immigration and that's understandable. But the Irish government's approach, though they are cognisant of that, is that they understand you are a growing business ... they know that to help our business we'll need more people and the government will need to be flexible and forward thinking. I've appreciated that collaborative approach, and the [Facebook] executive team have been very encouraged by the very commercial focus of government and agencies."Supporting startupsWhen theGuardian Tech team was in Dublin, at least one startup told us Facebook doesn't have much of a presence in the local tech scene – and also expressed frustration that features like Facebook Places aren't active yet for users in Ireland. Long strongly disputed that, saying that as an English-language market Ireland sometimes benefits early when new features are rolled out.Facebook had 633.5 million unique users in October, according to comScore, with 1.495 million in Ireland – indicating Facebook is used by 74.9% of the population. In the UK, Facebook has 31.3 million users or 81.4% of the population."Ireland is small but has great penetration and has seen rapid adoption," said Long. "Sometimes when we roll things out Ireland gets them way earlier than it ordinarily would, but the technical implementation of Places – specifically lots of aspects of the back end and getting the data itself – means some markets have been delayed. We have prioritised markets with larger user bases and strategically we're rolling out in growth markets."'Irish developers get more support than UK developers'Long is positioning Facebook as a mentor and advice hub for the tech scene in Ireland, and said the support it gave to Irish gaming giant Jolt, which recently launched a Playboy game for Facebook, is typical. "I'd say we support local developers more than we support UK developers," says Long, defensively. "I personally feel we've invested quite a bit of time with the local community, and while there's room to do more we have done a lot in the last two years."Trinity College, Dublin. Photo byUggBoy♥UggGirlon Flickr.Some rights reservedFacebook has run three developer garages in that time, and held talks for computer science students at Trinity College and University College Dublin. Long insists that work in universities is not about soaking up local talent but about reinforcing the link between education and industry and describing the direction of travel for the computer science industry.As for hard cash, Facebook launched theFB Fundto make investments in promising Facebook development, but Long won't say whether the company would pledge dedicated funding for Irish developers – which could be seen as putting its money where its financial mouth is. "There are no specific plans, though last year FB Fund opened to global developers so we are raising awareness," said Long. "We can point a company in the right direction where we see a good fit. Outside funding we support companies through mentorship."Talent drain?How about the concerns Facebook might be sucking up local talent? "If we are then I'm worried about the local talent pool," he said, adding that local startups who complain about struggling to fill developer roles should do more outreach with universities and offer internships. "We haven't hired that many people on the technical side." Facebook's Dublin office has 200 staff but less than 20 of those are technical; less than 10 work on the platform group and the backend engineering group is smaller still.Developer Charles Dowd has founded two startups in Ireland and advised on a string of others over the past 20 years. After developing a hotel reservation app for Facebook calledticket truck, Facebook recruited him as manager of platform operations for EMEA. Facebook's platform operations team in Dublin is the first outside California, working on policing the developer platform and with outreach and education for the developer community. "He now has a seat at the table not just in Europe but globally, and he's sought out for his opinion when we role out new products or want to know the temperature for developers on some things," said Long, though he admitted being conflicted about taking on such high profile member of Ireland's startup community.Dublin's team has a strong voice at Facebook's base in Palo Alto, insists Long – who is said to have a close working relationship with Facebook's chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg. "It's hard to make predictions for Facebook, but there will be a lot of opportunities and we will be trying to grow those for this region," he said. "We've built a reputation internally as a group that can solve complex problems and drive online revenue, so as the company rolls out new initiatives we will hopefully be at the forefront of their mind."
Facebook is to recruit another 100 staff in its Europe, the Middle East and Africa headquarters in Dublin over the next 12 months, the Guardian has learned, expanding the current team of 200 international sales, finance and developer management staff.In contrast to Ireland's dire financial straits, Facebook's investment in its Irish operation – which is the main centre for all business outside of the US – casts a clear vote of confidence for the future of its tech economy.The social networking giant has been keen to steer clear of the controversy about Ireland's low corporate tax regime, instead emphasising its outreach work with universities, mentoring initiatives for local startups and its developer garages.Ireland'slow corporate tax ratehas helped attract around 75 major international tech corporations including Microsoft, Google, Amazon, Hewlett Packard and Intel. Despite pressure from Germany and other countries backing Ireland's €67.5bn bailout package, Ireland has refused to increase corporation tax from the current rate of 12.5%.Colm Long, Facebook's director of online operations based in Dublin, acknowledged the sensitivity around the issue but would not comment directly. But he explained that Facebook's executive team had also been "very encouraged" by the collaborative nature and commercial focus of the Irish government and its agencies."This is not a very popular thing to say, but we've seen time and time again that we can go in and have conversations with the Irish government to solve problems ... there's often more bureaucracy in other countries," he said."Ireland is very business friendly – you can get talent quickly not just from Ireland but from abroad. Other countries are tightening up on immigration and that's understandable. The Irish government's approach, though they are cognisant of that, is that they understand you are a growing business ... they know that to help our business we'll need more people and the government will need to be flexible and forward thinking.""If we continue to execute well we can create really meaningful employment opportunities for graduates. The should be some sense of optimism that they don't have to emigrate for opportunities."Of Facebook's 200 Dublin staff the majority work on advertising, multi-lingual sales and account management with a small finance and HR team. Less than 20 work on backend engineering and "platform operations", the team that liaises with external app developers. The company is currently advertising for 85 new staff across all these areas.Long denied that Facebook – which had 633 million unique users in October, according to comScore – is taking local development talent out ofnative startupsat a time when engineering talent is in short supply. During Ireland's property boom, many students opted for property-related degrees instead of computer science."If we are then I'm worried about the local talent pool – we haven't hired that many people on the technical side," said Long, who said the Irish office had "built a reputation internally as a group that can solve complex problems and drive online revenue".Read the full interview with Colm Long
Cataclysm, the latest expansion to World of Warcraft launched worldwide last night to predictable scenes of excitement. We'll have a review in the next few days but for now let us know what you think so far. Was it worth the wait? Did you queue in the cold? Shed a tear going back to old haunts only to see them demolished or fundamentally altered? Enjoying flying over the Barrens? Let us know below...
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Google's Android operating system is profitable for the company, according to Andy Rubin, Google's vice-president of engineering who is the co-founder of both Danger (acquired by Microsoft) and Android (acquired by Google).In atalk at the Wall Street Journal's D:Mobilized event, Rubin told Kara Swisher and Walt Mossberg that "We're making money on the advertising that's generated through Android."Mossberg asked: "Are you profitable if it was broken out as a separate business?"Rubin: "Yes."It's not clear quite how that would work, but the Android team is believed to be quite small - Rubin says that it began as eight people, but since that time "we have obviously staffed up". He admits (as we write today) that the original Google Nexus One failed because the US wouldn't tolerate a market where you bought a phone off the shelf and a product plan separately as you can in Europe. (Industry observers reckon it's more that Google didn't realise you'd need after-sales support.)Rubin added: "There's no way I would have ever been profitable as a start-up. I probably wouldn't have made it as a separate company." (That's in contrast toDanger, which was sold to Microsoft for about $500m.)He called Android the "Linux of phones" but said that didn't mean (to Swisher's question) that that meant it was "hard to get drivers for, only for geeks, no real consumer would buy it?" Rubin's response: "No, I think we've already proven that wrong. Bad analogy."Rubin was quite complimentary about Apple and the iPhone, saying that developers have been finding it relatively easy recently to get apps approved, and that "My assumption is Apple is a company that learns from its mistakes."He's less complimentary about Windows Phone 7, which he says has legacy code from Windows Mobile: "You just have this package of stuff that was invented before the Internet," Rubin says. "When the architects built that product, they didn't have the Internet in mind."There's a hint that Rubin has spoken to Nokia - which would be remarkable - but there it is: "The company has new leadership [referring to CEO Stephen Elop]. They are evaluating lots of alternatives. I'm open-minded and a big proponent of Android." But he wouldn't talk about any meetings he may have had.He also showed off a Motorola tablet prototype to show a forthcoming version of Google's mobile map application. Tablets, he thinks, are a new space: "we used to have PDAs, but the cellphone eventually replaced it. The tablet is a sort of in-between device so the use case is less clear. You might definitely have it on the couch, but maybe not on the subway."
Illegal mining in Congo. Photo byJulien Harneison Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSmartphones: Blood stains at our fingertips &gt;&gt; The Globe and Mail"In the next few weeks, millions of electronics will be yanked off store shelves during the busy holiday shopping season – computers, smart phones, electronic book-readers. Almost every single one of the gadgets Canadians purchase will, in turn, help extend Congo's misery, because inside the circuitry of those gadgets is coltan."Coltan has become one of the world's most sought-after materials because it is used to create tantalum, a key ingredient in electronic circuitry. The global tantalum capacitor market is worth about $2-billion (U.S.) annually. You'll find them in computers, cell phones, home appliances and myriad other electronic goods."Introducing Nexus S with Gingerbread &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogAmazing to think that the first Android phone was November 2008, and the Nexus One was only in January this year.Rural providers react to government broadband strategy &gt;&gt; Computer Weekly""This is a monumental con," said Chris Conder, who runs a community broadband helpdesk that serves parts of Cumbria, Lancashire and North Yorkshire via three different telephone exchanges."It is 2003 all over again," she said. "The sad thing is I really think they believe they are doing well. They have fallen for the spin."Panorama  on the games Industry &gt;&gt; MCVIt's not exactly a FIFA moment for games through the BBC's programme last night on games addiction.Android 2.3 Platform and Updated SDK Tools &gt;&gt; Android Developers BlogNow what we need is a timeline of Android releases.In the matter of Wikileaks &gt;&gt; Tim Bray"Yes, you can lock down your network with sharp-fanged firewalls, and disable the USB socket and DVD writer in all the computers. I know you can do this because I've worked with organizations that have; highly security-conscious financial institutions. What happens is, they take a grievous hit in productivity, and everyone brings their personal Mac in and puts it on the desktop and uses it for getting actual work done, mailing the results to the castrated company computer for deployment."So your choice is clear: You can take a horrible productivity hit or you can deal with the enhanced risk of getting secrets leaked."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Check your calendar for a second. That's right, this is 2010. Video games became a commercial reality in 1972, the yearAtari distributed the first Pong arcade cabinets. They have been a part of mainstream culture for 30 years. Why, suddenly, is the prospect of "games addiction" a suitable subject for the BBC's flagship current affairs programme?I asked this question before watching thePanorama programme 'Addicted To Games', and having seen it, I'm still baffled. Reporter Rafael Rowe talks to several young men whose lives have been blighted by obsessive games playing. He travels to South Korea and looks at how the country's fast broadband access has created a generation of keen online gamers, 2% of whom have been described as addicts by the Korean government. He talks to Adrian Hon, founder ofgames studio Six to Startabout 'the hidden techniques' developers use to ensnare gamers. Except they turn out not to be hidden techniques; they are the psychological mechanism known as "variable rate of reinforcement", tested on rats in the 1960s. It seems humans respond to non-predictable forms of reward. An incredible revelation.Rowe chinstrokes his way through the interviews with a look of ponderous concern. I could only marvel at how self-defeating it all seemed. Chris Dando kicked his sister's bedroom door in when his parents turned off his connection to World of Warcraft; Joe Staley dropped out of university when he became addicted to his Xbox. But focusing on these extreme cases just showed me how abnormal games addiction is, and how these sad stories are so unlike anything I've encountered in the 30 years I've been playing games."That was the point we started to realise, God, this is dangerous," said Chris's mother, commenting on the door-kicking incident. Somehow, she'd missed the fact that he was playing WoW for 16 hours a day. At home. In his bedroom. I don't want to judge someone else's parenting – at ages three and five my sons are too young and daft to be left unmonitored longer than about half an hour. But 16 hours a day? I'd hope my alarm bells would have started ringing slightly before any sort of foot-furniture interaction.In South Korea, Rowe visits a boot camp for recovering game addicts; he watches the kids doing star jumps on a beach. One mother, referring to her son's online games addiction, says "I've tried hitting him a lot" – it's a moment of Brass Eye-like surreality that says more than any child psychologist ever could about the potential causes of problem games playing. Some kids need to escape.One valid point. South Korea, with its solid, fast broadband service, may well present an image of our future: maybe the problems that are being encountered there hint at problems coming our way in the UK? But then maybe not. Panorama reduces the whole issue to a technological level – the insinuation is that the only reason we don't have 2 million online gaming addicts in this country is that our broadband isn't up to the job.It's a ridiculous argument. There are enormous social and cultural differences between South Korea and the UK, and the way entertainment technology has evolved there is bewilderingly different to the way it has happened here. We don't have masses of teenagers sitting inPC Bangsevery night, and that's not because our internet connection is crap; indeed, the games they're obsessively playing over in Korea – massively multiplayer online titles and real-time strategy games – are often specifically designed to scale according to the capabilities of the systems they're running on. World of Warcraft will run on any piece of shit PC you can buy, and does masses of work to overcome latency and lag issues. How weird, how reductive, to suggest the only difference between us and a country several thousand miles away is bandwidth.I'm not rubbishing the whole concept of the programme. As Dr Mark Griffiths, an oft-quoted expert on the psychology of gaming, says at one point, "people seem to display the signs and symptoms you get with more traditional addictions". I'm prepared to believe that games can be a problem to vulnerable people, just as drugs, alcohol and gambling can be. Just as television can be.But here's the thing: what was the point of this documentary? Wide-scale scaremongering is unnecessary, given the rarity of the problem. And let's face it, if some parents haven't cottoned on to to the fact that games can trigger compulsive behaviour in children, will a half-hour current affairs programme do the trick? Will the slight hand-slapping that Rowe givesUKIEdirector general Mike Rawlinson about not having the dangers of addiction flagged up on his website really turn things around? And why should UKIE take such a step, when there's no reliable evidence on the subject? Why should the industry fund research into games addiction – a request made by Rowe – when that's the surest way to make any outcomes questionable? Objectivity is a key element here, surely?I think that games industry news site MCVperfectly sums up this inconsequential and at times manipulative investigation:"People have addictive personalities. Said people can conceivably become addicted to games. As games become more popular that risk increases."It's nothing new. It's nothing profound.Meanwhile, on my last two trips into London, I have seen massivestudent protests; I have seen anti-capitalist activists staging asit-down protest outside Top Shopon Oxford Street, enraged by corporate tax avoidance. Surely, here are the stories the BBC's leading current affairs strand should be investigating? And surely this report, and last week's on theFIFA World Cup voting system, represent little  more than the tabloidisation of a once hugely important television institution?The programme ends with a trip to the Eurogamer Expo in London. Rowe says, in a voiceover cut with images of people playing and enjoying games: "It's easy to forget the benefits and pure joy games bring to people's lives. I don't want to stop my boy gaming, but I'm going to keep an extra close eye on him to make sure he games safely."And, hey, I had that same idea about my own sons. But I didn't need a documentary to tell me this was a good idea. The fact that someone felt that we did need it says that there are much, much bigger problems in British homes than a box in the corner that plays games.
Google is returning to the branded phone fold with the launch of the Nexus S, built by Samsung, which will be sold in the UK through Carphone Warehouse and in the US via the retail chain Best Buy - a tacit admission that its previous attempts to sell the phone through a website failed due to lack of customer support.The Nexus S, which will be branded in adverts as "Pure Google", will be the first to feature Google's latest "Gingerbread" 2.3 release of its Android phone operating system. It includes the ability to do searches and create texts and emails from voice commands - although initially this functionality will only be available in the US.Carphone Warehouse is taking orders for the phone from today, but could not be definite about when it will be able to sell it - although it hopes to be able to begin deliveries before Christmas.The phone will be available unlocked for £550 (compared to £500 for Apple's iPhone 4) or for free from £35 per month, according to Graham Stapleton, CPW's chief commercial director, who says that the retailer is talking to networks in the UK to set up deals.Stapleton said that Android phones are already the second best-selling operating system on phones in its thousand-odd retail outlets throughout Europe, but that for this quarter he expects it to be the top-selling OS through the chain, pushing Nokia's Symbian OS onsmartphonesboth smartphone and "dumb" phonesinto second place. Nokia has dominated the market for phone for years, selling a greater share than any other platform, but since the launch of Apple's iPhone and devices built on Android its share in Europe has dwindled.Industry sources suggested that CPW's decision to talk to networks about phone contracts, rather than selling the phone directly and supporting it on its own mobile network, indicate that it recognises the need for aftersales support will be greater than it can manage on its own.Google's first venture into own-branded phones, theNexus One in January, was initially sold only via Google's website, but the company quickly discovered that the level of after-sales support required overwhelmed it. It then spun off sales to retailers beforediscontinuing it entirelyin July.The Nexus S has a 4-inch screen which uses a Super AMOLED screen, which offers greater brightness and battery life than previous screen displays. The phone also has a gyroscope, near-field communications for contactless data transfer, and introduces methods for controlling many aspects of the phone purely via voice commands. Existing Android 2.2 phones can already do simple web searches from voice commands, but the 2.3 release extends that to other functions in the phone.To begin with only services that translate voice commands for navigation and finding contacts will be available through the voice-to-text facility. But Google hopes to offer extra facilities - including creating a text or email from spoken sentences, setting alarms and "listen to" services which will find music online or on the phone - in the UK and worldwide from next year."One in four searches on Android devices in the US is already done by voice, which is an astonishing number to me," Burke said.The phone uses a 1GHz processor running at the same speed as the Nexus One, but offers greater on-chip bandwidth and a ddicated graphics processing unit, meaning it can process data much more quickly, said Dave Burke, Google's head of smartphones in the UK.Burke said that the 2.3 Gingerbread release will be available to owners of the Nexus One and other phones as an over-the-air update "within the next few weeks". However it will be up to mobile operators how quickly they roll it out, although future upgrades for the Nexus S will be controlled by Google.The Nexus S also takes advantage of facilities in Android 2.3 which include native support for voice-over-internet calls when connected to a Wi-Fi network. Burke acknowledged that some network operators might choose to remove that functionality from their own builds of Android for phones they sell in future. "That's the Android open model - people can change the software," he said.Update: CPW says that it expects Android to outsell Nokia's Symbian in smartphones, not all phones. Note that Nokia has been the top-selling smartphone in the category for some years though.
Photo byTsahi Levent-Levion Flickr.Some rights reservedGoogle is launching its long-expected web-based ebook offering, now renamed Google eBooks, in the US from today and says it aims to bring it to other countries next year.The launch means that there are now three big players – Amazon, Apple and Google – in the ebook market, with the latter two having only just joined this year. Apple launched into the market with its iBooks offering for its iPad tablet in April.Previously known as Google Editions, the new platform will be web-based but incorporate various technologies to prevent piracy.Google says that it will "make it easier for writers to find new audiences for their books, and for readers to find, buy, and read books on most devices."The company is launching its own "eBookstore" but buyers will also be able to buy the ebooks from independent sellers. Any purchased book is stored in Google's online library – which means that they will be able to read them even if their own device is lost.The books can be read on laptops or netbooks, using Google's eBooks Web Reader. Users must have a Google account. The company is offering unlimited ebook storage: "Being able to access your books from anywhere means that it doesn't matter what device you're using," a spokesman said. The company is also developing free apps that will allow it to run on Android and Apple devices."For many books you can select which font, font size, day/night reading mode and line spacing suits you," Google noted.Google Books, which scans book from libraries, was launched in 2004, as a part-time project developed by Larry Page, co-founder of Google. So far it has digitised more than 15m books from more than 35,000 publishers, and more than 40 libraries, and more than 100 countries in more than 400 languages. But it has also attracted lawsuits from the Authors' Guild, the Association of American Publishers and from UK and European publishers' representatives.
Founded in the new millennium, LimeWire spent nearly half of its decade-long life in legal battles with the music industry.It finally lost the war in October, when a New York court ruled that the popular filesharing service – which boasted more than 50 million monthly users in its heyday – had inflicted "irreparable harm" on the music industry and must cease from allowing the sharing of copyrighted works.Its legal offering, set up as an olive branch to major record labels in 2004, was allowed to live on.But the party is over. This weekend LimeWire announced that it will close the "virtual doors" on its legal service on 31 December, bringing an end to the website after 10 years."As a result of our current legal situation, we have no choice but to wind down LimeWire Store operations," the company said in a statement on Friday. "Despite our dedication and efforts, 31 December 2010 will mark the day when LimeWire Store shuts its virtual doors."Or is this really the end? Is the end even possible for such a venture? A pirate edition of the peer-to-peer application, uploaded to The Pirate Bay only two weeks after October's landmark injunction, is still doing the rounds on torrent-sharing sites.Lime Group, the company behind LimeWire, has even sent a cease-and-desist letter to the group behind LimeWire Pirate Edition afterbeing given a sharp elbowby theRecording Industry Association of America– the most poignant symbol yet of copyright infringement coming full circle.Commentators call the movedamage limitationahead of next month's court ruling on how much LimeWire will have to pay in damages to major record labels. The RIAA, predictably, says the filesharing site has single-handedly cost the industry hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue.It is also tempting to read perhaps too much into the closure of a legal download service, given the "paradigm shift" that is yet to take place in the sharing of music online. Not to mention thestill-insubstantial conversion ratesbeing clocked up by some of the most popular music streaming services.But the likelihood is more plain.Peter Kafka at All Things Digitalreckons the mothballing could be on the advice of lawyers, who as recently as October were ushering LimeWire away from talking about new ventures.Bankrolled by its owner, former Wall Street trader Mark Gorton, as well as advertising on the free version of its software and an ad-free premium version, LimeWire's legal offering failed to capture the imagination of innumerable internet users who forever connect its name with a limitless copyright free-for-all.
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 4 DecemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (2)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (38)Wii (5)PC (3)42 (4)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (41)PS3 (36)Wii (8)PSP (6)103 (3)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)34 (1)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)25 (5)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)86 (–)Michael Jackson: The Experience(12+)Wii (99)DS (1)PSP (0)17 (6)Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit(PG)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (42)Wii (3)PC (1)38 (7)Wii Party(3+)Wii (100)99 (13)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)5310 (11)Professor Layton And The Lost Future(7+)DS (100)7Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy;2010UKIELtd
Those in despair at Fifa's apparent contempt and antipathy towards the country that (arguably) invented the sport it administrates can at least take solace in other sports this Christmas. England's cricket team may be looking good in Australia, but there is surely no Christmas sporting staple bigger than the PDC World Championship, darts's equivalent of the World Cup. Darts is a sport that the Brits still own and, in the form of Phil "The Power" Taylor, it has a superstar who dominates his sport in a much more colossus-like fashion than, say, Tiger Woods, Lionel Messi or Michael Jordan. Not bad for a chubby chap from Stoke.Any mere mortal who has struggled to locate the treble-20 with regularity will know just how astonishing Taylor and his growing band of challengers are – but that's where video games can help. PDC World Championship: Pro Tour performs a classic function of video games: allowing us to gloss over our innate lack of talent and compete in virtual versions of the finest sporting competitions.The latest version of O-Games' licensed darts offering completely nails the ambience of the PDC World Championship, with decent likenesses of the main protagonists, Sid Waddell's overexcited tones straddling the line between genius and nutcase, and even Russ Bray, the man who sounds like he gargles razor blades, calling the scores. Many of the season's other big events, including the Grand Slam, World Matchplay and UK Open, are also included, and the Las Vegas Desert Classic is already available as downloadable content.Gameplay-wise, PDC World Championship: Pro Tour sensibly aims to recreate the darts-playing experience as closely as possible. This year, support for Sony's Move has been added, and it operates much like the Wii Remote in previous versions of the game: point to select your aim-point, then move the controller as if you were throwing a dart, keeping a button pressed and elongating your throw according to the dictates of a power-meter. You can choose between maximum and minimum assistance, although the former makes proceedings a bit too easy – you soon find yourself emulating The Power's feat earlier this year of hitting two nine-darters in a single match. Which is thrilling, but soon fails to satisfy.Using a conventional joypad, the game is still thoroughly playable. Darts fanatics will love it, as it really does give them the chance to emulate their heroes in meticulously recreated, and deliciously unglamorous, locations such as the Reebok Stadium.Basically, it's just like playing real darts, but with things such as your dodgy aim and inability to throw with the correct weight factored out of the equation. Which does somewhat beg the question why you would want to play virtual darts when you could just go out and buy a dartboard. If the idea of playing darts on a console does appeal, though, this is as good as it gets.
It's the time of year when even the hardest of hardcore gamers are tempted to switch off their Xbox 360 or PS3 and spend a few festive moments reliving their gaming youth.For gamers of a certain age, it's likely that one company dominated those halcyon days – Nintendo. The Japanese gaming giant does nostalgia like no other. The recent reboot of the classic N64 title Goldeneye is one example. Super Mario All-Stars 25th Anniversary, which contains all the original NES Super Mario games, is another. However, while Goldeneye on the Wii adds new graphics, levels and reason to play on once the nostalgia has subsided, Super Mario All-Stars simply replicates a 20-year-old SNES compilation.Yes, it contains one of the finest games ever made – Super Mario Bros 3 – but there is nothing here that most gamers won't have already played or seen. Perhaps realising this, Nintendo has packaged the game with a CD and booklet. The latter is impressive, with some neat artwork and commentary – for hardcore Mario fans, this booklet makes the package a must. The CD is less exciting, although the collection of theme tunes and sound effects will raise a smile. Ultimately, though, it is the games that matter and although very familiar, there is still plenty of entertainment to be had here.Given that the original Super Mario Bros was released 25 years ago, it still stands up today. The platforming gameplay will be familiar to all ages of gamers, though dad may find his reflexes are not what they once were. Thankfully, all the games here allow you to save your progress – a feature that was absent in the originals. In many ways the first Mario Bros is a better game – more balanced – than the sequel. The inclusion of the infuriatingly tough Lost Levels will be one for obsessives only, but it is Super Mario Bros 3 that makes this package shine. Epic in scale – even today – Mario Bros 3 rewards exploration, skill and random leaps into the unknown. More complex than the earlier games, Mario Bros 3 is the highlight of All-Stars.It's a shame we couldn't have the sublime Super Mario World included here. Or at least something new to what is essentially a 20-year-old compilation of 25-year-old games. However, the booklet, CD and packaging will appeal to the fans and you can't knock the endearing quality of the games included. Let's hope the 30th Anniversary package is a bit more ambitious.• Game reviewed on Nintendo Wii
How much did Mark Zuckerberg reveal on CBS's 60 Minutes at the weekend? Very little.Interviewer Lesley Stahl started with an intro that could've been from Facebook for Dummies, and none of the answers revealed much that was new, or unexpected.Privacy: "There's a sense that still, after all this time, you are not above board, that there's a hidden motive to invade our privacy take our information and use it to make money," asked Stahl."We never sell your information, and advertisers using the site never get access to your information," replied Zuckerberg.Some apps have shared data though, haven't they? "It's against all of our policies for an app to ever share information. We shut them down if they do... Do we get it right all the time? No. But it's something we take seriously and every day we come to work and try to do a good job on this... It's an important thing for everyone to think about - privacy and making sure we have control of our information is one of the fundamental things on the internet."Redesign: 'Redesign' is a bit strong - there's been a minor tweak to profile pages that puts key information at the top of the page. Andrew Wallenstein onpaidContenthas been pretty blunt about the lack of newsworthiness of this; it smells like a minor peg been slapped on a general interview, and I can't help feeling there was a wasted opportunity here in poking a little deeper, or in some more unusual aspects of the company.Twelve engineers working to a tight deadline with dirty plates and toothpaste tubes on their desks... colourful, but not that enlightening. Zuckerberg is on home turf in the Facebook office, and though he seems much more confident in this interview compared to the last one three years ago his answers are media trained to the point of uselessness. The point of being chief executive is that you can say whatever you like. Could someone tell him?Google: Is Facebook on a collision course with Google? Does Facebook want to own the internet, through search? Zuckerberg is evasive again: "People can use a product of any category either by themselves or with their friends - and most of the time people want to do those things with their friends."Part One:Part Two:The Social Network: Still talking about the film? Apparently so. Zuckerberg says it was wrong to characterise setting up Facebook as being about getting girls: "I've been dating my girlfriend since before I started Facebook."We goet to see the real Winklevi twins walking and talking - and still bitter. The pair are appealing against the result of their case, which saw them settle out of court for $65m. They say it's about principle, and because Facebook misled them about the value of Facebook stock in the settlement. "He pre-meditatively sandbagged us because he knew there wasn't room for two social networks at Harvard. When I was 19 I wouldn't have behaved that way," said one or other of them. They are, they admitted, both on Facebook.Another thing the film misrepresented, said Zuckerberg, was the importance of the Winklevoss case in the history of the firm. "They  make it seem like the lawsuit is such a big part of Facebook's history but I probably spent less than two weeks of my time worrying about this lawsuit at all. This has never been a big deal to Facebook or its evolution."Kara Swisherhas a cameo; she disapprovingly says the Winklevi "got  $65m for one medium idea they never could have made into anything".Stahl asks Zuckerberg to grade himself as chief executive, which of course he avoids. "We've made a lot of mistakes along the way, possibly every mistake we could've made along the way. The most famous one was in 2006 when we had the opportunity to sell the company to Yahoo. A lot of people thought we should sell."Isn't it all about the IPO now? Stahl didn't mention this, but that is widely expected to happen in 2012. Current value estimated at $35-$50bn; Zuckerberg's personal wealth estimated at $6.9bn."A lot of people building startups or companies think that selling the company or going public is this end point - that you win when you go public. That's just not how I see it."
Kinectimals, Just Dance 2 andMy First Songs– yes, it was a family friendly gaming weekend for me. Ok, I did get some action in the splendid RPG Divinity 2: Dragon Knight Saga on 360 but most of my time was spent on family-friendly games. Just Dance 2 is – as most of you probably know – the sequel to the smash hit original Wii dance game. Compared to some of the similar titles on Kinect it feels basic but JD2 is accessible and rewarding even to the youngest dancers.Similarly aimed at *very* young gamers is My First Songs – otherwise known as Singstar Nursery Rhymes for the Wii. Those of you with young children are probably the only people still reading this but honestly, My First Songs comes well recommended. It comes packaged with one microphone – prepare for some arguments if you have two or more kids – and is a colourful and accessible kids karaoke. Ok, there are only 20 or so songs (think Old Macdonald, Twinkle Twinkle Little Star etc) but your average four or five year old will enjoy this. Parents will need stamina once they have heard Hickory Dickory Dock for the tenth time on Christmas morning though.Anyway, what about you? How was  your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
What a honking mess Britain's policies on trying to get fibre-optic broadband to our homes are turning out to be. Successive governments have now wrestled with it, and so far haven't come up with anything that has people in the industry doing anything but shake their heads - unless, that is, the people are working for BT, in which case they're quietly satisfied at seeing the arc of this particular story heading right their way.Thus the secretary of state at the DCMS, Jeremy Hunt, is today announcing a further £50m of funding for projects intended to get rural areas linked upwith "Fibre to the cabinet" (FTTC) connections - although for reasons best known to himself and his advisors they're calling it "a digital hub in every community". Perhaps "digital hubs" sound cooler or something, like a modern form of the parish pump.But as the BBC is pointing out, it also means that the aim of the Digital Britain report, that every residence would have a broadband connection of at least 2 megabits per second (Mbps), has been pushed by by at least two years.The reality though is that this money is really not going to do what Hunt, and the rest of us, want to achieve: get fibre-optic cable installed to homes and businesses all around the country, not just in the high-density urban and lower-density suburban areas, but also the low-density rural areas.If Hunt thought he was going to be welcomed with open arms, he'll be disabused this morning. "Please, please, can we rewrite the superfast broadband strategy before it is too late? I don't think that the many of us who have spent the last decade campaigning for rural broadband and NGA [next-generation access, the other word for fibre connections] had a very happy Sunday reading the docs which were embargoed until today,"writes Lindsey Annisonat Computer Weekly. "We don't want fibre to a privately owned street cab or exchange. Because that would a) imply that we want to extend a 100 year old monopoly yet further and b) are building onto an obsolete network. And that would all be ....um...pointless."There are two reasons why this "strategy" is such a screwup, and neither of them actually rests directly with BT, which is just doing what any business tries to do - stay alive. BT has lobbied Ofcom, the telecoms regulator, not to disturb its business. And Ofcom has, amazingly, gone along with it - the clearest sign that the organisation has suffered "regulatory capture". Maybe the government really does need toabolish some of its Ofcom's powers.And what is needed is for the government to decide whether it really likes monopolies, or market-driven solutions, and actually get on and do that. Because at the moment it's uncomfortably straddling both.The problem is actually dual-edged. First is a strange tax regime that insists that if you lay some fibre-optic cable and start using it, then those cables constitute "business premises" - and you're charged business rates on them. But you get charged differently per kilometre of fibre if you already have a lot of it, like BT or Virgin, or if you're a small company.The second is that despite lots of claims of breakthroughs, BT isn't sharing its ducts and poles - the infrastructure that's needed to actually lay (or string) the fibre that must replace the copper if we're going to have real high-speed connections. Would-be fibre competitors point out that it's madness to build an entire local infrastructure that sits in parallel with BT's, so obviously what you should do is allow those rivals to lay or string up their own cables using the same ducts and poles as BT already has.Hurrah for us, says Ofcom, the telecoms regulator: we've persuaded BT that it must allow this.Well, up to a point.Yes, BT will next January announce its charging regime for access to those ducts and poles. Great! But there are two huge holes in what Ofcom has delivered.First, companies offering fibre services won't be allowed to offer business services - only home-based ones. It's exactly backwards, because what most fibre-offering companies want to do is target the business market, which wants the speed, symmetry (upload speeds as fast as the download speeds) and reliability that they offer, and can pay more than the home market. That on its own would be enough to indicate that Ofcom has come up with a dud on the pole-and-duct front.But there's worse: BT won't have to pay the same rates that it charges others. (And of course it will be able to target businesses with any fibre that it installs.) That's infuriating for rivals, which see the creation in September 2005 of BT Openreach, the division within BT that looks after the "access network" - and does so on an equal basis for all retail companies. The creation of Openreach made a huge difference to the rollout of broadband because it suddenly meant BT had to compete with rivals such as TalkTalk, becauseit had to pay the same prices for access to the BT trunk network. It couldn't favour its own services, and so it had to compete.So now what people in the fibre business are telling me needs to happen is something similar: they want a "BT Ductandpole" which will behave in exactly the same way - charging BT Openreach, and hence other companies, for access to those ducts and poles in the same way that BT Openreach does for access to the trunk network. The infrastructure needs to be wrested away from BT.That would make a huge difference, even though there's the danger that it would create multiple levels of divisions that operate bits of BT. Though you could image that a BT Ductandpole could be an efficient unit within BT, just as BT Openreach has been.That would be a good start.The next thing that would mean an explosion in the amount of fibre being laid, not just to "digital parish pumps" but to homes and businesses, would be to remove the bizarre treatment of new fibre optic cable as "business premises" (on which a company has to pay rates), and especially to remove the favouritism of BT. Despite having the vast majority of the active fibre optic cable in the country, BT only pays about half of the £400m or so that is charged by the Valuations Office Agency (VOA) to companies which use fibre. The best estimate is that BT pays about 5% as much in tax per kilometre as other companies.Obviously, that extra tax is a brake on the installation of fibre by those companies, because they know they'll get clobbered for every kilometre, which makes it hard to justify economically, and also that they'll have to re-lay it because they can't (yet) get to BT's infrastructure. It's a double whammy. It's stupid. It's a hangover from the end of the 19th century when telegraphs were new, and laying a telegraph cable across the sea could make your fortune - because having access to transatlantic information could make you a killing - and hardly anyone could afford to do it. Now, fibre optic is cheap: the business rates cost more than the stuff itself per kilometre if you're a small business. Though not, of course, if you're BT.Fibre companies tell me they could double the coverage they could offer at a stroke if the VOA tax were lifted. That's a pretty cheap incentive - and it wouldn't involve "projects" that reinforce BT's monopoly.At present BT is getting a double advantage, and the government's plans are a mess. Jeremy Hunt's "plans" will lead to nothing more than the strengthening of BT's monopoly. If that's what he wants, then he should come out and say it, and we'll know that it's going to be decades - if ever - before BT gives up its copper infrastructure and replaces it with fibre.But if he actually wants a competitive market where companies vie to bring prices down and to link your home and your business up to cable, then he should mandate that BT - and Ofcom - introduce a regime where BT's ducts and poles are run by a separate organisation, and charge everyone equally; and that BT's ducts and poles can be used to provide services to any organisation, business or residential.That will make the difference. And then we might look back in five years and pinpoint his decisions as the ones that made next generation access really happen.
Presently, this is how you get Apple in the kitchen. Photo byTeppoTKon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAlcatel-Lucent Dashboard Gives WP7 Devs App Headlights &gt;&gt; Open API ServiceWindows Phone 7 developers do not automatically get analytics about how their apps are doing.Apple's 'Kinected' Kitchen -- InformationWeek"In March, inventor Timothy R. Pryor assigned his interest in three patents and 10 patent applications covering methods for interacting with automobile telematics equipment and home appliances over to Apple."Executed on March 30, 2010, and recorded by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on May 3, 2010, the transfer of intellectual property -- presumably for a significant fee -- suggests that Apple is making a serious effort to develop products related to home and vehicle systems automation."Google Maps &amp; Label Readability &gt;&gt; 41LatitudeIntriguing comparison: why is it that Google Maps are easier to read than Bing's.Ben the Bodyguard. Coming soon to iPhone® and iPod touchIntriguing if you scroll down the page.Update to the Save interface &gt;&gt; delicious blog"Yesterday we released a major change to our primary action on Delicious and (not surprisingly with a change of this scale) you all immediately responded by giving us some really great feedback on what you liked and what you didn't."But mostly what they (and we) didn't. What's really unexplained is what Delicious hoped to get out of this change, which has so many UI flaws (no resizable box for notes, for example) that it would make a good case study in Getting It Wrong Through Insufficient Testing For Irritancy On Humans.ATOC Conveniently Blames Cost, Correctness, Security &amp; Commercials for their Authoritarian Actions | Malcolm BarclayThe pressure continues on the Association of Train Operating Companies to make its data more easily available.Wikileaks and Amazon Web Services: some thoughts &gt;&gt; Joseph GalarneauThe chief operating office of Newsweek points out that the internet's very unlike the world of print publishing: "The power of the press can be dramatically limited when the power to the press is disconnected. Outside the newspaper industry, few publishers actually own their own printing presses. U.S. courts rarely exercise prior restraint (orders that prohibit publication), and most printers rely on their customers to shoulder the legal liability if there are disputes. But as Amazon's silencing of Wikileaks demonstrates, the rules can change when media companies move on to the Internet, with its very different methods of publishing."Internet Advent Calendars &gt;&gt; TumblrMore online advent calendars than you can shake a.. er.. mouse at.FBI Arrests Alleged Head of Mega-D Botnet Operation &gt;&gt; threatpost"The FBI has arrested the man that they allege is behind the notorious Mega-D botnet, which at one point accounted for nearly a third of all of the spam on the Internet. The arrest came to light this week after the man was caught entering the U.S. last month on his way to a car show."All the bathos you could ever want all in one place.What if Google had to optimise itself for... Google? &gt;&gt; MeanGenePainfully true examination of how Google would look if it took its own advice about optimal design. "I am Feeling Lucky in my Internet Search."US embassy cables: browse the database #wikileaks #cabletgate&gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukNeat visualisation.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
The culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, will today announce a further £50m of funding for new projects to push forward the government's ambitions to get superfast broadband to every community in the UK. The intention is to get a "digital hub" connected by fibre optics in every area by 2015.But critics say  the new plans do not address fundamental problems with the way that BT controls the infrastructure needed to instal new fibre systems, nor ease inequalities in the way that BT is charged for fibre compared to small companies.In a speech outlining the plans, Hunt acknowledged that the UK's broadband infrastructure is "towards the middle rather than at the head" of the pack, where only 15% of subscribers have continuous links running above 5 megabits per second, compared with 65% in South Korea.AnOfcom studypublished last week showed that only 0.2% of UK households have a fibre-optic broadband connection, compared with 12% in Sweden and 34% in Japan, which leads the world. If successful, the proposals would mean fibre-optic links to telephone "cabinets" in every area, which would then connect to subscribers' homes by their existing copper lines.This compromise system is known as FTTCand is generally reckoned to offer a maximum speed of about 40Mbps, compared to FTTH – fibre to the home – which can achieve 100Mbps or more, but requires fibre connections into the house, replacing existing copper wiring.Hunt says that high-speed broadband is not an end in itself, but an enabler of new services comparable to Australia's "school of the air", a distance learning initiative, or telemedicine services and other methods of keeping people more directly in touch."Our digital industries already generate 10% of our gross value added – around £130bn – and already employ around 6% of the UK's workforce, more than 1.7m people," Hunt says. "And they have already demonstrated their incredible potential by growing through the downturn."A study by the London School of Economics calculates that having a superfast network throughout Britain would create 280,000 new jobs. The Federation of Small Businesses says that it could add £18bn to the UK's GDP. The UK is also an "acknowledged leader" in e-commerce, Hunt says, spending more online per capita than any other country in the world.Hunt praises BT, saying there have been "constructive discussions" with the company, which means it will match government funds where it wins a bid with its own investment.But that frustrates small companies that want to bid for projects by offering systems that would go beyond BT's Infinity cable system and offer newer systems with "symmetrical" connections that would be able to upload data as fast as they download it – which BT Infinity does not do.For that, companies need to build their own systems on BT's infrastructure. In January, BT will publish rates following an order from Ofcom, the telecoms regulator, detailing how much it will charge rivals for access to its "ducts and poles" – the essential infrastructure over which any new fibre-optic cable would be laid. Fibre-optic cable will replace the existing copper lines, which cannot achieve more than about 24Mbps, compared to the 50Mbps or more that is already being achieved in the UK by Virgin through its limited cable network.But critics say that because BT will not have to pay those rates, the market is skewed against them. "As a minimum, [the government] should level the playing field between BT and smaller players," said Chris Smedley, chief executive ofGeo, which provides fibre optic access in the UK, with 3,000km of network.In addition, BT can prevent rivals who use its ducts and poles from offering services to businesses; the latter will only be allowed to offer residential services, while BT is able to offer them to any sector. That too distorts the market – but an Ofcom study will not report until 2012 and might only change that in 2013, says Smedley."At the moment, it's distorted by the fact that BT is assessed in a different way from small companies. It doesn't encourage efficient network rollout, because sometimes you design them in a way that avoids tax, rather than in the best way for customers," Smedley told the Guardian.A meeting between fibre optic providers in the UK and Ed Vaizey, the communications minister, was scheduled for last week to discuss ways to ease the distortion – but had to be called off because one of the civil servants involved was snowed in. If he had had superfast broadband, he might have been able to attend the meeting via videoconferencing.The initiative uses £530m made available through thecomprehensive spending reviewfor this Parliament, including £300m diverted from the BBC licence fee. The next £50m will be added to money already pledged in October for projects in North Yorkshire, Herefordshire, Cumbria and the Highlands and Islands in Scotland.
The US technology tycoon Elon Musk, who heads Tesla electric cars and was one of the co-founders of PayPal, is preparing for lift-off in the latest stage of his personal space programme this week.SpaceX, which Musk founded, is hoping to send a capsule into low Earth orbit on Tuesday, launching its rocket from the famed Cape Canaveral site in Florida. If successful, SpaceX would be the first commercial company to launch and bring anything back through the Earth's atmosphere.The launch is one of three tests scheduled so far this year. SpaceX hopes eventually to act as a ferrying service for the international space station. The company has already successfully tested its Falcon 9 rocket and last month received the first commercial permit to bring a spacecraft back into Earth's atmosphere from orbit.Musk is not the only millionaire with eyes on the stars. Google co-founderSergey Brin, Virgin'sRichard Bransonand Amazon'sJeff Bezosare all backing space programmes.
Every few years comes a development in the technology that brings moving pictures into our homes invariably accompanied by the promise that this new piece of kit will "change the way we watch TV. Forever!"So it was with colour, VHS, DVD, plasma screen, Blue Ray, HD, digital recording... Then, to cap it all, came the possibility of watching full-length shows on the internet.Online television is a genuine game changer in the spirit of "if you can't beat them, join them" that media companies have now decided to embrace. Leading this convergence of web and TV is Sir Richard Branson, whose Virgin Media this week unveiled a "new generation of set-top box", in partnership with the US clever box TiVo, to go on sale just in time for Christmas.The new gadget, a snip at £199 plus £32.50 a month, offers viewers an entire terabyte of memory. That's 500 hours, or three solid weeks' worth. Along with TiVo's "intelligent recommendations engine" which keeps a beady eye on the shows you record in order to suggest similar programmes.Virgin claims to have crossed the final frontier. With an in-built broadband connection on its own dedicated bandwidth, the new box boasts the ability to connect your TV to the internet. This gives access, through "apps", to the likes of eBay and Twitter, not to mention the web's ever expanding number of on-line catch-up options whose appeal is exemplified by the success of BBC's iPlayer.Others are hot on Virgin's trail; YouView, a join venture between the BBC, BT, Channel 4 and ITV is expected early next year, while the looming spectre of "Google TV" is already casting a shadow over traditional networks. All in all, aside from the desire to enjoy the immediacy of breaking news and live sport, the notion of watching a show at the time it is transmitted is beginning to look alarmingly quaint.
When Sally Blenkey-Tchassova first started her burlesque dance classes in New York last summer, she said she was lucky to get four students. Now she has 800 new clients on her books. Lady Gaga's love of the raunchy dance style and the new movieBurlesque, starring Cher and Christina Aguilera, have helped. But the British-born entrepreneur credits one company in particular with really giving her business a high kick: Groupon, a two-year-old internet startup that may be the fastest-growing firm in history and has just spurned a $6bn takeover bid from Google.Chicago-based Groupon is the hottest company of the moment in the US technology industry. Its decision, late on Friday, to walk away from a multibillion-dollar buyout by the world's biggest internet search company is a sign of remarkable audacity on the part of founder Andrew Mason, a doggedly wacky 29-year-old.Groupon specialises in providing customers with discounts that are triggered when they encourage friends, family and colleagues to purchase in bulk. Its 12 million subscribers are emailed one deal a day, tailored to their location and profile. Groupon has rivals, including LivingSocial and the UK's Groupola, but it's the biggest group-discounts website and has global ambitions; local deals on items ranging from breakfast at a tea shop in Manchester to tickets for museum shows in Chicago soon add up. Analysts calculate the local advertising market is worth more than $300bn globally. And the talk in Silicon Valley is of how much Mason believes his business is worth if Google's $6bn was insufficient – a tidy $7bn? Or even $10bn?Blenkey-Tchassova offered a Groupon promotion on her Burlesque Bikini Bootcamp last week – 10 classes for $49 rather than $99. She sold 800 within hours. Half that goes to Groupon, but Blenkey-Tchassova is confident the sale was just the start. "These are my customers now," she says.But while Gaga groupies might find Groupon a bargain, Google's investors reacted badly last week to rumours of the $6bn offer. At that price, Groupon would have been Google's largest acquisition, dwarfing its $3.1bn purchase of DoubleClick, the internet advertising company, in 2007.Groupon is a very different business to past targets of Google. For a start, it relies more on people than algorithms and Mason has publicly worried about losing his corporate identity. Groupon has a staff of 3,000 and Mason has described it as a "hybrid human-technology company". The firm employs comedy writers to come up with witty ad copy. Mason too likes a joke: he once hired a man to walk around the office in a ballerina outfit for a week, with no explanation. "It's about shocking people into feeling alive," Mason said in an interview.Other start-up entrepreneurs who have sold out to Google have privately complained about culture clashes once they have been absorbed by the increasingly monolithic search firm. "I worry about the unknown of what it means to be a bigger company," Mason said in a recent speech.But at current rates Groupon will soon be a big firm whatever happens. While Groupon is focused on local business, it has also expanded to national deals. Last summer, it ran a Gap promotion that generated $11m in revenue in one day. Analysts estimate that Groupon has annual revenue of more than $500m; Mason has said the company is profitable, but no figures are available. Before Groupon, the fastest growing internet company was Zynga, the social-network games developer behind Farmville. It took three years to hit the revenue levels Groupon has reached in two, according to Lou Kerner at analysts Wedbush.Local is hot on the web. Amazon is believed to be close to investing $150m in LivingSocial. And Google has been beefing up its local presence. It tried to buy Yelp, a local reviews site, last year and has put rising star Marissa Mayer in charge of its local and geographically based business. Even at $6bn, Groupon wouldn have dented Google's reserves. It has about $33.4bn in cash or cash equivalents on hand.Sandeep Aggarwal, an analyst at San Francisco's Caris &amp; Co, thought buying Groupon would have been smart. "So far, no one has cracked the code to bring all local merchants online but Groupon has the most compelling model, in our view," he said in a note to investors. He said Groupon could have offered Google another $1bn business opportunity outside its core search business. Many of Google's 1.2 million advertisers could benefit a lot from a Groupon-type offer, he believes.Blenkey-Tchassova also runs a spray tanning salon and says she has run several deals with Groupon and its rivals. "There are so many companies doing it now, but Groupon is the mothership," she says. "They are very methodical, very precise. The results are amazing. I think they offer the best deal in town." Google may never know.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I think it's the lavatory. It's improved my life absolutely – I couldn't live without it. I use it constantly during the day, and it gets rid of all the stuff I don't want in my life. My least favourite is my computer, because that dominates my life and takes up so much of my time. And I don't think I write any better on the computer.When was the last time you used it, and what for?The last time I used the lavatory was this morning – and I had a really good go on it, it was one of those very satisfactory poos.What additional features would you add if you could?I suppose I would actually like to have a proper newspaper rack or stand beside it, where you could have books. At the moment I only have a little stool, and everything falls off. And maybe a seat warmer, possibly?Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I suppose if everybody stops eating and drinking it will be, but I guess it will march on – until the sewerage system breaks down, which is likely in the coming breakdown of civilisation that is bound to happen.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I think it's how it takes over our lives. You discover a simple solution to something, and then it mushrooms and gets out of hand.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Use it sparingly. Like they say on the anchovy paste that is Gentleman's Relish.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I don't think I'm either, really – I'm in that amorphous in-between mass. I fought against having a mobile phone for years, but then I was forced to get one because everyone else had one – I was told I was being unfair because nobody could get hold of me.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A piano – it was a Broadbent, and they went out of business shortly after I bought it.Mac or PC, and why?Well, Mac, because Douglas Adams, who was a great friend of mine, would have had a heart attack if I'd bought a PC – he was such a fan of the Mac. It was because of Douglas that I started getting into computers.Do you still buy CDs and DVDs, or do you download music and films? What was your last purchase?Yeah, I do, I buy physical media. I think the last thing I bought was a DVD of a Japanese film.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Well, a good idea, as long as you don't&nbsp;have to talk to it. And as long as&nbsp;it&nbsp;doesn't want to get into bed with&nbsp;you.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'd like something that peels potatoes really quickly – that would be wonderful. I do a lot&nbsp;of cooking, you see. Then&nbsp;again, I suppose the robot butler could always&nbsp;do it.•A new Monty Python video game, The Ministry of Silly Games, will be released next year.ministryofsillygames.com
The news that the EU has decided to investigate whether Google isabusing its dominance of the market for internet searchesnaturally led your columnist to type "Google abuses market dominance" into, well, Google. In 0.19 seconds it reported 4.4 million results.The same query typed into Bing, Microsoft's search engine, produced only 362,000 hits. On the other hand, typing "Microsoft abuses market dominance" into Bing produced only 218,000 results, whereas the same query produced 665,000 results in Google. From which we can draw two conclusions. The first is that the algorithmic machinations of search engines, like the Peace of God, passeth all understanding. The second is that the EU is about to spend a few years, and several million euros, coming to the same conclusion.The proximate cause of the EU's decision to launch an investigation is a series of complaints from three specialist search engines: ciao, owned by Microsoft; ejustice.fr, a French legal search engine; and Foundem, a British price-comparison site. Their beef is that Google's non-paid-for search results deliberately favour its own "Shopping" service and disadvantage them.Given that Google has effectively about 90% of the search market in the UK, it clearly has considerable power. There's a widespread feeling in small business circles that if Google can't – or won't – find your site, then you effectively cease to exist in cyberspace. Actually, it's more subtle than that: Google will always find your site, but its secret page-ranging algorithms may put it on page 35 of the results of a search for products or services that you supply. And, given that virtually nobody looks beyond the first page, being on page 35 is the same as being posted to Siberia.In order to see whether Google's competitors have indeed been so cruelly abused I typed "Apple iPod Touch prices compare" into Google, Bing and Yahoo. Google produced 69.4 million results. The first three on the page were paid-for ads, clearly identified as such. Next came a set of three results from Google's own Shopping engine. The next three results were for UK price-comparison sites, followed by two links to Apple stores, then another UK price-comparison site – and then a link to Foundem. So one of the EU's complainants was eighth on the first page of the Google results.But itwason the front page. Bing produced 256,000 results and Foundem was the fourth link on the&nbsp;front page. On Yahoo (20.8m results), Foundem came third on the front page.What does this prove? One would need a sophisticated testing methodology – and millions of automated searches – to even begin to reach a conclusion that might outflank the lawyers and technical experts that Google will muster. But maybe that is what the EU has in mind.News of the investigation highlighted the gulf that separates the Anglo-Saxon world from what Don Rumsfeld used to call "Old Europe".Danny Sullivan, a respected expert on search engines, for example, posted&nbsp;a witheringly sarcastic commenton his site. "I did a search at Google today for 'cars' and was shocked," he wrote."Rather than list links allowing me to search for 'cars' on Bing, Yahoo, Baidu, Voila, Naver and Yandex, Google instead favoured its own search results. I'm glad the EU will be investigating whether this favouritism violates anti-trust laws."Google is widely admired in this country and in the US, but regarded with deep suspicion on the continent. The Germans seem particularly hostile – as seen, for example, in their opposition to Google Streetview – but the French and Italians are also pretty antagonistic and it's possible that some of this antipathy has infected the European Commission.On the other hand, Google is now overwhelmingly dominant in one of the most important markets in the modern world – internet search. The company has made great play with its corporate slogan "Don't be evil".But in the end it's a commercial company, not a charitable foundation.And the company that enjoyed monopolistic power and did not abuse it has yet to be incorporated. Those old Europeans are right to be suspicious.
Nintendo, it is fair to say, can take much credit for innovation in gaming's recent past. The company popularised gesture-control though the Wii, and used the DS to charm swathes of non-gamers into picking up a stylus. And yet, in spite of this reputation for leading the medium into new realms, where Nintendo often excels is in a gaming form largely consigned to history: the humble platformer.Like the Super Mario titles of generations past,Donkey Kong Country Returnschallenges the player with the apparently simple task of moving from A to B by traversing a two-dimensional plain generously peppered with ledges, moving scenery, bottomless pits and wildly jerking contraptions that are all designed to outwit the titular protagonist. Itself a sequel to the 1994 gameDonkey Kong Country, Nintendo's latest in a long line of platformers is an elaborate showcase of level design and a marvel of pacing.Donkey Kong's destination as he jumps and climbs hardly matters. It is the journey across a large tropical island that counts. Indeed, the sun-kissed assault courses that he must negotiate look basic at first glance, friendly even, draped as they are in luscious flora and bristling with lolloping island wildlife. In fact, thanks to incredibly sharp level design, each is a rich playground filled with surprises, and many are genuinely challenging. Every few minutes of play introduce a clever new spin on what can be done with such a simple template, as platforms and ledges are combined in inspired and original ways. Such is the game's wit and cunning that it teases with fresh conundrums at the exact moment you feel you have learned all its tricks.Turning the typical relationship between user and game on its head,Donkey Kong Country Returnsplays with the gamer – probing and prodding at your quest to master its nuances. Hidden areas and secrets abound, rewarding repeated return visits with concealed items that beg for discovery. There's also an immensely satisfying momentum to the action, and to dash through a level successfully is to feel like the conductor of the game's melodic score. It is, of course, yet another visit to a tried-and-tested genre, but it is also testament to Nintendo's skill that 29 years after the release of the originalDonkey Kongarcade game, the company can innovate and delight with the familiar as successfully as with the contemporary.
In an era when corporate branding and mascots have assumed almost untouchable status, Disney'sEpic Mickeyseems all the more remarkable coming from a studio that protects its own image so zealously. This adventure game has their mouse icon reinvented in vintage form, and cast into cheerily nightmarish surroundings that are in stark contrast to much of the animation company's contemporary output.Set in an area known as the Wasteland, which evokes the largely forgotten characters and cartoons of Disney from the 1920s and 30s, and realised as a heartfelt tribute to the craftsmanship of that golden era, the game combines platform-jumping, puzzle-solving and exploration elements. Mickey, meanwhile, is armed with a magic paintbrush that can create and destroy the world around him.Renowned game designer Warren Spector has done a fine job of weaving together Disney's eclectic history into a visually ambitious and sometimes softly psychedelic wonderland that is delicately eerie throughout.The action in the opening levels is somewhat ordinary, but those prepared to invest just a little time will be rewarded with an increasingly rich experience. Form outshines function in this bold adventure, butEpic Mickeyremains a daring tribute that evolves into a fine, distinct piece of entertainment.
To commemorate the 25th anniversary of the original Super Mario Bros launch, Nintendo has re-released a collection of the first four games in the series. Originally released on the SNES in 1993,Super Mario All-StarsfeaturesSuper Mario Bros 1-3andThe Lost Levelson one disc, with the same updated 16-bit graphics of the 90s compilation.Some may be disappointed that the content is identical, or perhaps thatSuper Mario World- arguably the pick of the plumber's 2D adventures - isn't included. But this 25th anniversary edition has a couple of aces up its sleeve. A second DVD case houses a soundtrack CD featuring music from Mario's history, ranging from the iconic main theme of the 8-bit original through to the majestic orchestralSuper Mario Galaxysoundtrack. Accompanying this is a booklet with observations from three figures who have played key roles in the Super Mario series - creator Shigeru Miyamoto, producer Takashi Tezuka and composer Koji Kondo. It also features previously unseen design documents and concept drawings that will undoubtedly be of interest to amateur gaming historians.The games themselves are still extremely enjoyable.Super Mario Bros. 3is many enthusiasts' idea of 2D platform perfection, whileSuper Mario Bros. 2(which wasn't originally planned as a Mario game) is a fascinating departure, and better than its relatively lowly reputation might suggest. Serious fans will own these titles already, but to a new generation of players this is a gaming education.
The latest iteration in a burgeoning fitness gaming market,Sports Active&nbsp;2is an all-bells-and-whistles, heart-monitoring and motion-sensing training regime – even coming complete with peppermint-scented resistance band.It's the most interactive exercise title to date, offering a tailored, personal workout that records data such as heart rate and calorie burn but also easy to use and effective. The entire experience is varied, from the exercises on offer to the surroundings in which they take place.Virtual personal trainers and avatars provide a gamey feel, which enhances the actual enjoyment of the process, while the body tracking gadgets are user-friendly and make for a state-of-the-art home workout, complete with warm-ups, well-timed water breaks and cool-down stretches.Crucially this doesn't always feel like a fitness title, which is a good thing, especially when there are opportunities to test out football skills, shoot basketball hoops and spar with an on-screen punchbag. On the down side, the motion sensors can occasionally fall out of sync, making it harder to convince the device that you have completed a task – a wholly demonic punishment for the casual exerciser. Oh and you'll need a fair bit of space. It's not easy doing sit-ups with your elbow under a coffee table and your legs inside the TV cabinet.
The latest DreamWorks animated 3D comedy is another postmodern work in which superheroes spend their time worrying about the nature of their powers and what it means to be a superstar. The eponymous Megamind (voiced by Will Ferrell) is actually a blue, turnip-headed super-villain, who, like Superman, was dispatched to earth as a babe by his parents from a planet approaching extinction. Grown up, he fancies an unattainable Lois Lane-like TV reporter (Tina Fey), who in turn is attracted to Megamind's rival, Metroman (Brad Pittt). When he appears to have vanquished Metroman, the villain is faced with the question: "What is the point of being bad if there's no good to stop you?" There are a few goodish jokes, the voices are well cast and the film has the smooth, anonymous look of a piece of industrial machinery produced on a conveyor belt manned by robots.
The source code of Microsoft's Windows operating system, the most widely used desktop operating system in the world - used on about 90% of PCs - is one of the most valuable pieces of intellectual property in the western world. The source code is a human-readable set of around 50m lines (for Windows XP, released in 2001) to 75m lines (for Windows Vista)  is what is used to "build" or "compile it" into machine-readable code the Windows program that runs those computers.Microsoft does not normally release the code to anyone, because it makes its money from licensing the compiled code to computer makers and end users. It has provided limited access to very special customers, but it would not release the whole code - at least not willingly.But Microsoft suffered an electronic break-in in October 2000, when for four months hackers had access to the whole of the company's internal systems - an attack very like that later aimed at Google in China. The method was almost identical: a staff member received an email containing a "Trojan horse" program which let outsiders gain control of the machine, and from there traverse the network and access the repository with the Windows source code.The US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) was called in. At the time Steve Ballmer, the president and newly-appointed chief executive, admitted that the hackers had seen the source code for Windows - which implies that there were able to copy it."It is clear that hackers did see some of our source code," he said then. "But I can assure you that we know that there has been no compromise of the integrity of the source code that it has not been modified or tampered with in any way."The initial suspicion was that the 2000 electronic break-in was done by Russian hackers, because the compromised machine was contacting others in St Petersburg. But even if Russian hackers were behind the initial break-in, they could have sold the code to China.China's security services would want the code not to be able to make illegitimate copies of Windows, but in order to find weaknesses in it that they could exploit in further hacker attacks. While the code for Windows has changed substantially between XP and Vista, and its successor Windows 7, many of the basic processes - and so code - will be unchanged in the past ten years, affording specialist hackers the opportunity to find previously unknown weaknesses with ease. Such "zero-day" vulnerabilities are the weapons of the hacker, who can use them to infect and control other machines at will.
Tuesday, 02 February 2010, 08:36C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 02 BEIJING 000263C O R R E C T E D  C O P Y - (ADDED SECSTATE ADDRESS)SIPDISSTATE FOR EAP/CM-BRAUNOHLERSTATE FOR EAP/CMSTATE FOR ISN/NESSUSDOE FOR NNSA/SCHEIMAN, GOOREVICH, WHITNEYUSDOE FOR NUCLEAR ENERGY-MCGINNISSTATE PASS TO NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (DOANE)USDOE FOR INTERNATIONAL/YOSHIDA, BISCONTI, HUANGFUNSC FOR HOLGATEEO 12958DECL: 01/20/2035TAGSCH, ENRG, KPWR, MNUC, OSCI, PINR, PINS, SENV, TPHY,TSPLSUBJECT: PRC: NUCLEAR RESEARCH AT CHINESE ACADEMY OFSCIENCESBEIJING 00000263 001.4 OF 002Classified By: BRENT CHRISTENSEN, ESTH COUNSELOR. REASON: 1.4(b,d,e)1.(SBU) Summary: In response to an invitation by the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), ESTH officer traveled to Hefei, Anhui Province, in December 2009 to visit several Chinese government-sponsored scientific institutions. During this time, ESTH officer learned of the below information through official presentations, personal observation, and informal/discreet conversations with CAS staff members. Most significantly, the Institute of Plasma Physics continues to conduct research on how to use nuclear fusion as a sustainable means to produce energy. At the same time, China is expanding its use of nuclear fission as an energy source and plans to open at least 70 nuclear fission power Qnts within the next 10 years. In 2009, CAS's Institute of Plasma Physics budget was USD$20 million. Additionally, other CAS institutes are conducting research in biometrics, computational physics and material science, nanoscience and nanomaterials, soft-matter physics, environmental spectrometry, fiber optic wave-length division multiplexing, quantum communications, superconductors and spintroncis, and cognitive sciences. End Summary.Institute of Plasma Physics - Nuclear Research------------------------------------2. (C) In mid-December 2009, the Chinese Academy of Science (CAS) Institute of Plasma Physics (IPP) in Hefei, Anhui Province was preparing for another cycle of experiments with its Experimental Advanced Superconducting Tokamak (EAST). EAST was designed to be a controlled nuclear fusion tokamark reactor with superconductive toroidal and poloidal field magnets and a D-shaped cross-section. One of the experimental goals of this device was to prove that a nuclear fusion reaction can be sustained indefinitely, at high enough temperatures, to produce energy in a cost-effective way. In 2009, IIP successfully maintained a 10 million degree Celsius plasma nuclear fusion reaction for 400 seconds. IIP also successfully maintained a 100 million degree Celsius plasma nuclear fusion reaction for 60 seconds. One of IIP's immediate goals is now to maintain a 100 million degree Celsius plasma nuclear fusion reaction for over 400 seconds. Currently, IIP is also conducting research into hybrid fusion-fission nuclear reactors that may be able to sustain nuclear reactions indefinitely, and at sufficient temperatures, to cost-effectively produce energy. IIP officials stated that China has the explicit goal of building at least 70 nuclear fission power plants within the next 10 years. IIP scientists claimed current Chinese nuclear energy production efforts use Uranium 235, but research is being done to make Uranium 238 a feasible alternative. IIP's 2009 budget was USD$20 million - a two-fold increase over the previous year - and IIP leadership expects their budget to increase again in 2010. Roughly one-third of IIP's budget comes from China's National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC); another one-third of the budget comes directly from CAS, and the final one-third comes from China's Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST). According to IIP leadership, NDRC has been very laissez-faire in its oversight, but MOST tends to micromanage projects and the expenditure of money. (COMMENT: Based on personal/discreet conversations with IIP staff members, the relationship between CAS and MOST is strained due to officious and annoying oversight insisted upon by MOST. IIP scientists much prefer the NDRC management style and wish more of their funding could come from this body rather than MOST. END COMMENT) IIP has roughly 450 full-time staff members, over 400 graduate students, and approximately 100 contractors under its purview.Institute of Intelligent Machines - Biometrics Research------------------------------------3. (C)The Chinese Academy of Science (CAS) Institute of Intelligent Machines (IIM) in Hefei has developed a biometrics device that uses a person's pace to identify them.  The device measure weight and two-dimensional sheer forces applied by a person's foot during walking to create a uniquely identifiable biometrics profile. The device can be covertly installed in a floor and is able to collectBEIJING 00000263 002.4 OF 002biometrics data on individuals covertly without their knowledge. When questioned about the device's potential applications, IIM officials stated the device was being used by "secret" customers and was not available on the commercial market. IIM also said they were involved with China's "Program 863." (COMMENT: Program 863 is China's national high-technology development plan that includes both military and civilian technology development programs; therefore, it is likely the People's Liberation Army (PLA) is one of the customers for whom this biometrics device was developed. END COMMENT)Institute of Solid State Physics - Nanotechnology Research------------------------------------4. (C) In mid-December 2009, the Chinese Academy of Science (CAS) Institute of Solid State Physics (ISSP) in Hefei was conducting research in the fields of computational physics and material science, nanomaterials, and soft-matter physics.  ISSP's 2009 budget was roughly $6 million (USD). ISSP's top priority projects are: one-dimensional nanomaterials, spin and charge research using perovskite manganese oxides, and the design and preparation of high-dampening materials. ISSP also conducts research on nanomaterials and nanostructures for China's "Program 973." (NOTE: Program 973 is China's national plan for improving basic scientific research and development. END NOTE)Institute of Optics and Fine Mechanics - Spectrometry &amp; Fiber Optic Research------------------------------------5. (C) In mid-December 2009, the Chinese Academy of Science (CAS) Institute of Optics and Fine Mechanics (IOFM) in Hefei was modifying environmental spectrometry technology to detect TATP explosives for use in counter-terrorism efforts. IOFM was also conducting fiber optic research on wave-length division multiplexing (WDM) technologies using pulsed and continuous laser sources at both single-mode and multi-mode wavelengths. A cursory walk through one of their labs revealed that IOFM was specifically conducting experiments in the 980-1150 nanometer range, and that they were conducting experiments using hydrogen-filled fiber optic communication lines. (COMMENT: Hydrogen-filled fiber optic lines are technologically challenging to manufacture, but provide many advantages; one of which is increased security and protection from tampering. END COMMENT)University of Science and Technology of China - Organization &amp; Research------------------------------------6. (C) In mid-December 2009, the University of Science and Technology of China (USTC) in Hefei had academic programs focusing on Math, Physics, Chemistry, Life Sciences, Nuclear Science, Engineering, Computer Science, Information Technology, Management, Humanities, and a department dedicated to the development of gifted young people. USTC has 37,000 staff and 40,000 graduate students. USTC oversees two national laboratories: the National Synchrotron Radiation Laboratory and the Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Science at the Microscale (HFNL). HFNL has 95 faculty members and roughly 400 graduate students. HFNL research focuses on quantum communication, nanoscience, superconductors, spintronics, and cognitive sciences. In the area of quantum communication, HFNL was conducting research in quantum teleportation and free space quantum cryptography that scientists hope will result in "totally secure" communications. USTC also oversees China's "Program 178," although they did not describe the nature of this program. (COMMENT: A cursory walk through their labs seemed to indicate they had already succeeded in single-particle quantum teleportation and are now trying to conduct dual-particle quantum teleportation. END COMMENT) HUNTSMAN
Monday, 29 June 2009, 16:59S E C R E T STATE 067105NOFORNEO 12958DECL: MRTAGSASECSUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC SECURITY DAILYClassified By: Derived from Multiple SourcesSECRET//FGI//NOFORNDeclassify on: Source marked 25X1-human, Date of source: June 27, 20091. (U) Diplomatic Security Daily, June 27-29, 20092. (U) Iraq - Paragraphs 7-113. (U) Significant Events - Paragraphs 12-234. (U) Key Concerns - Paragraphs 24-435. (U) Cyber Threats - Paragraphs 44-576. (U) Suspicious Activity Incidents - Paragraphs 58-647. (U) Iraq8. (S//NF) Alleged plans by various insurgent groups to conduct attacks during anticipated U.S. military withdrawal from urban areas: According to recent multiple source reports, various insurgent groups and militias intend on attacking multiple venues throughout Iraq in anticipation of U.S. military forces withdrawal from urban areas. Specific targets mentioned included the International Zone (IZ), Victory Base Complex, joint security stations, and various forward operating bases in Baghdad and in Maysan Province (southern Iraq). Allegedly, insurgent groups also are prepared to target key infrastructure, such as bridges and major supply routes used by Coalition forces (CF) and Iraqi Security Forces (ISF) convoys. According to one source, an unidentified group had access to a large tank of chlorine, 16 V-8 rockets, and three torpedoes which were supposedly recovered by the CF and ISF. The reports mentioned the attacks would commence on or about July 1. The Government of Iraq is anticipating the offensive and has placed ISF units on alert and cancelled all leave effective June 28.9. (S//NF) DS/TIA/ITA would like to note the series of reports are consistent with other recent threat reporting indicating the possibility of insurgent groups and militias preparing to increase attacks in anticipation of troop withdrawal from urban areas. It is possible that extremist-affiliated groups would seek to target the IZ and the Victory Base Complex, as the venues are symbolic of the U.S. diplomatic and military presence in Iraq. It is also plausible the groups may surmise that a large attack against CF troops in these areas would be ideal, as it would serve as propaganda for them, allowing them to take credit for driving out "occupying forces."10. (S//NF) DS/TIA/ITA would also highlight the allegation of the existence of the weapons cache, as the materials could possibly be used as components for improvised rocket-assisted munitions or an improvised explosive device (IED). According to the Multi-National Forces in Iraq Combined Intelligence Operations Cell, the first documented chlorine attack occurred in al-Anbar Province (western Iraq) on October 21, 2006, and the first documented chlorine vehicle-borne IED (VBIED) in the Baghdad area occurred in Taji on February 20, 2007. Despite the claims by insurgent groups and militias of chlorine-related attacks, their incident rates remain low and inconsistent. While DS/TIA/ITA cannot corroborate the veracity of the recent threat reporting, overall, there is nothing to suggest that the intention to attack the U.S. presence in Iraq will subside once a military troop withdrawal is completed. (Appendix sources 1-7)11. (SBU) Indirect fire (IDF) of unknown size was launched against the IZ in Baghdad at 9:22 p.m. on June 24. The IDF impacted in the river approximately 250 meters south of the U.S. Embassy compound. No injuries or damages were reported. (RSO TOC Baghdad Spot Report)12. (U) Significant Events13. (C) WHA Honduras - Honduran military forces arrested President Manuel Zelaya June 28 according to orders issued by the National Congress and the Supreme Court of Honduras. Zelaya was taken to a local air force base and flown to Costa Rica. Emergency Action Committee (EAC) Tegucigalpa subsequently met to discuss the ramifications of the seizure of the president by host-cost country military forces. The RSO noted the general climate in the capital was calm; however, a standfast order was issued, and additional security measures were implemented. The Embassy released a Warden Message regarding the actions against Zelaya and urged AmCits to remain in the residences or hotels for the day.14. (C) Later in the day, Congress officially named Roberto Micheletti interim president. The U.S. Ambassador gave a press conference outside the Embassy; he insisted that President Zelaya was the only democratically elected president of the country and urged that freedom of expression and circulation be restored. He also demanded the release of those government officials said to be in military custody. The EAC reconvened to assess the situation. Protest activity has centered around the presidential palace, some roads in the capital were blocked, and there were some troops on the street. However, traffic flow was reported normal in most of the city. Authorized Departure for family members was discussed, but not warranted at this time. Embassy personnel were advised to remain in their homes for the rest of the day and to limit their movements today, June 29. All Peace Corps volunteers have been accounted for and are on standfast. Post will be open today for emergency services only. The EAC will continue monitoring events in-country and provide updated information as available. (Tegucigalpa Spot Report; telcon; Warden Message; Appendix sources 8-10)15. (SBU) EUR Germany - A Local Guard Force (LGF) member of U.S. Consulate General Frankfurt discovered two suspicious cases with protruding wires June 26 while on foot patrol in the clustered housing area. The guard notified his supervisor, and the area and two nearby apartment buildings were evacuated. Responding police requested canine and Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) support. After the EOD team arrived, a local telecom technician, who had been working nearby, arrived at the scene and claimed the unattended cases; the technician had inadvertently left the cases. After further investigation and corroboration with the technician, police declare the area safe. (RSO Frankfurt Spot Report)16. (SBU) AF Liberia - Two acts of vandalism were reported to U.S. Embassy Monrovia on the night of June 27. One took place at the residence of the chief of the DoD Office of Security Cooperation, approximately 2.5 miles from Post, where graffiti was spray painted on the perimeter wall stating, "COL THE WAR HAS JUST BEGAN." The second incident occurred at the facility of a USAID-funded project, approximately 1.5 miles from the Embassy, where the messages "INTERCON MUST LEAVE NOW, TAKE INT" and "DANGER" were spray painted on the compound wall. The RSO assesses these incidents are consistent with the pattern of threats and intimidation used by dismissed Embassy guards to obtain a favorable settlement with their former employer through the Liberian Ministry of Labor. (RSO Monrovia Spot Report)17. (SBU) Mauritania - U.S. Embassy Nouakchott received a credible threat June 27 regarding a kidnapping against an American in the capital sometime during the night (NFI). The RSO considers the information credible and made notifications to staff to assure that all official Americans were accounted for. All residential LGF posts were manned, and radio checks were increased. Post also issued a Warden Message advising AmCits in-country of the threat. Please see the Key Concerns section for further information. (RSO Nouakchott Spot Report)18. (C//NF) Mauritania - EAC Nouakchott met June 26 to discuss developments surrounding the murder of an unofficial American on June 23. Members were updated on the investigative progress of local authorities. The EAC reviewed the U.S. Embassy's tripwires for consideration of Authorized Departure and/or drawdown and determined there was insufficient information at this time to recommend either action. EAC members were reminded of the importance of random arrival arrivals at Post (effective June 25) along with other augmented security measures.19. (S//NF) The EAC reconvened June 28, and members were introduced to FBI assets assigned to investigate the AmCit's murder with host-country law enforcement personnel. Members welcomed the team and support their efforts on the investigation while in-country. Members also discussed the credible kidnapping threat against an AmCit in-country and reviewed the enhanced security measures already in place. Post issued a Consular short message system alert to the American community advising of the threat. The EAC will continue to review all threat information as it becomes available, while supporting the ongoing murder investigation, and the EAC will reconvene as needed. (Appendix sources 11-12)20. (SBU) Sudan Update - On June 24, verdicts were issued in the trial of the five Sudanese men charged with the January 1, 2008, murder of U.S. Embassy Khartoum employees John Granville and Abdelrahman Abbas. Four of the defendants were found of guilty of intentional killing and sentenced to death by hanging. The fifth defendant was found guilty on weapons charges and sentenced to two years in prison, including credit for time served since his January 2008 arrest. (Khartoum 0790)21. (SBU) The Gambia - EAC Banjul met June 23 for its monthly meeting. It was determined that the recent activity in Tehran, Iran, should not present any additional danger for U.S. personnel or citizens in-country; however, the EAC agreed U.S. Embassy staff must be more diligent in practicing common-sense security measures. EAC members deemed Post's current security posture is sufficient. (Banjul 0190)22. (S//NF) NEA Yemen - EAC Sana'a met June 28 to discuss a write-in threat concerning a VBIED attack against the U.S. Embassy planned for today, June 29. The threat was traced to Algeria, and, although such threats are considered relatively common, Post officials are taking the threat seriously. Members agreed that Post's current security upgrades were sufficient to deter and, if need be, withstand an attack; however, members deemed it would be prudent to request additional security from the Republic of Yemen Government at Post's perimeter, in light of the approaching July 4 holiday. Please see the Key Concerns section for further details. (Appendix source 13)23. (C) SCA Bangladesh - U.S. Embassy Dhaka officials met with the secretary of Home Affairs to discuss concerns over an uptick in crimes directed against foreigners in Dhaka's Diplomatic Enclave. The secretary stated the Government of Bangladesh (GoB) had increased the police presence in the enclave May 7, when threat letters were sent to several diplomatic missions. Post officials will continue to monitor the situation and keep pressure on the GoB to provide adequate security to the U.S. Mission. (Appendix source 14)24. (U) Key Concerns25. (S//NF) AF Mauritania - AQIM threat to kidnap American citizen: According to the Spanish National Intelligence Service (CNI), an unidentified source for the CNI service center stated al-Qa'ida in the Lands of the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) planned to kidnap an unidentified AmCit in Nouakchott during the evening of June 27. According to the report's context statement, a CNI official provided the information during the course of a routine liaison meeting. There are no additional details on this information, and the report's originators are unable to assess the reliability of the ultimate source(s) of the information. In addition, it is not known what, if any, vetting or validation procedures the Spanish service may use to evaluate its sources. In separate reporting, AQIM, as of late June, had sent three unidentified members to Mauritania from northern Mali to conduct operations against government interests in Nouakchott and Nouadhibou, according to the Mauritanian External Intelligence Service. It was unknown, according to the Mauritanian service, whether AQIM intended to attack Mauritanian and/or foreign government facilities in those cities. Separately, AQIM Tariq Ibn Ziyad battalion leader 'Abd al-Hamid (Abu Zaid), as of late June, had delayed an order for four men to travel to Nouakchott to conduct unspecified operations, according to the Mauritanian service. DS/TIA/ITA notes the latest threat information follows last week's killing of an American in Nouakchott and the possible involvement of AQIM. (Appendix sources 15-16)26. (S//NF) Nigeria - Extremists believed to be planning a massive terrorist attack: (S//REL TO USA, FVEY) Tearline states, "Unspecified extremist groups, suspected to be operating in concert with Nigerian Shi'ites, Salafiya, or Muhammad Yusuf's Nigerian Taliban are reportedly planning to launch a massive surprise attack on some piece of critical infrastructure or against high-profile targets within Nigeria. Probable targets of this attack include top Nigerian Government officials or security agents. Members of the general public, who might be opposed to the attackers' doctrines, were also believed to be possible targets. This planned attack is reportedly aimed at sparking sectarian clashes across Nigeria."27. (S//NF) DS/TIA/ITA cannot immediately corroborate the current threat with additional intelligence. While no connection can be made between this threat and previous reports, DS/TIA/ITA is concerned about recent activity surrounding extremists associated with the Nigerian Taliban.28. (S//NF) A well-trained veteran Chadian extremist, Abu-Mahjin (Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment (TIDE) number 24350378), who has limited ties to al-Qa'ida associates, recently traveled to Nigeria. He may be planning to conduct or facilitate a terrorist operation. Indeed, tearline from May 1 claimed, "An Islamic extremist named Abu-Muhjin has recently been in northeast Nigeria. It is likely that he will be joined by other Islamic extremists in the coming weeks." More recent tearline stated, "Nigerian-based probable Chadian extremist Abu-Mahjin is keen to obtain more funds in connection with some sort of nefarious activity (possibly terrorism related) he is engaged in. However, it is not clear when he will receive this additional finance." Little more is known about Abu-Mahjin's apparent efforts to organize a near-term operation.29. (S//NF) Though neither the Nigerian Taliban nor its more militant subset -- Tanzim al-Qa'ida group -- has ever attacked Western interests, they have discussed targeting foreign embassies in the past. In 2007, they reportedly plotted to attack the U.S., British, and Israeli embassies in Abuja, according to a single source that remains unsubstantiated. (Appendix sources 17-19)30. (C//NF) NEA Algeria/Yemen - Unsubstantiated threat claiming suicide bombing against U.S. embassies: On June 26, a write-in to a USG website provided a message involving an unsubstantiated threat to U.S. embassies in Algiers, Algeria, and Sana'a, Yemen. The message was posted in Arabic and appeared to originate in Algeria. The writer warned of a "big attack against your embassies in Algeria and Yaman by suicide car on 29/06/2009" and claimed to be an agent of the Algerian Intelligence Service. The writer provided an apparent telephone number for confirming his information and warned, "The second attack what you will see it is in Hassi Messaud in Sahara by a big number of terrorists." The report's originators note that they have no further information to corroborate the information, and the source may have intended to annoy, mislead, or disrupt rather than to provide legitimate information. The originators further note that the vast majority of such information is not true, but, since volunteers have provided authentic leads on occasion, the information is provided for evaluation purely due to its threat content. (Appendix source 20)31. (S//NF) Yemen - Al-Qa'ida possibly planning Embassy attacks: (S//REL TO USA, FVEY) According to tearline information, "Saudi authorities learned in late June that al-Qa'ida may be planning an attack on Western and Middle Eastern embassies in Yemen. There was no additional information on the timing or exact location of the planned attack."32. (S//NF) DS/TIA/ITA notes this report is likely related to recent information provided by a Yemeni security official in late June regarding possible unspecified al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) attacks against the embassies of the U.S, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Oman, Saudi Arabia, and unnamed European nations in Sana'a. No further information was provided on this general threat report.33. (S//NF) DS/TIA/ITA also notes the continuing AQAP threat to Western and host-nation interests both in Sana'a and throughout Yemen. Previous AQAP attacks illustrate a willingness and capability to target Western citizens and diplomatic facilities, highlighted by the brazen attack against U.S. Embassy Sana'a in mid-September 2008. The lack of host-nation political will to combat AQAP contributes to an extremely permissive operating environment for extremist elements, suggesting threat reporting against U.S. and other foreign interests in Yemen will continue in both the near and medium term. (Appendix sources 21-22)34. (S//NF) SCA Afghanistan - Threat to unspecified American in Kandahar: As of late June, Kandahar Taliban members Sadiq, Mullah Hamdullah, and Qari Yousef intended to kidnap an unspecified American who travels from Kandahar Airfield to work in Kandahar city to hold for ransom. The kidnappers planned to use a local Afghan who the American trusted to place a substance in his food to render him unconscious. Hamdullah, a.k.a. Bari Alai, worked under the command of Mullah Faizel who was currently in detention at Guantanamo Bay.35. (S//NF) While the Taliban operatives named in this report are indeed active in and around Kandahar city to include involvement in kidnapping plots, DS/TIA/ITA questions the source's access to operational plans by the Taliban. In past reporting, the source has reported primarily on Taliban member atmospherics and movements in southern Afghanistan and only occasionally on threats. DS/TIA/ITA assesses information provided by the source regarding the January 2008 kidnapping of an American non-governmental organization (NGO) worker to be inaccurate.36. (S//NF) That said, periodic reporting indicates extremists remain keen to abduct another Westerner in Kandahar city, possibly while traveling to/from Kandahar Airfield. Tearline states, "Taliban insurgents reportedly planned in late January to kidnap a U.S. national as he traveled between Kandahar Airfield and Shur Andam Pass, Kandahar Province." Reporting from November 2008 alleged the Taliban planned to kidnap two foreign women possibly from their residence in northeast Kandahar city or at the Rang Rezano market they frequented.37. (S//NF) Mullah Faizel (variants: Faisal, Fazilfazul; TIDE number 72569) was being held at Guantanamo Bay as of early April 2008. Mullah Hamdullah (possible TIDE number 75483) is characterized in late-2008 sensitive reporting as a group commander of a large number of Taliban in Helmand Province. The same report noted Sadiq, the brother of the Taliban's second-in-command Mullah Berader (TIDE number 76541), worked at an unnamed U.S. NGO and was involved in planning an unspecified kidnapping. (Appendix sources 23-30)38. (S//FGI//NF) Pakistan - Militants may be planning to abduct U.S. and UK citizens from NGOs and consulates; dual-citizens in Peshawar: Tearline intelligence reports, "Militants attached to Pakistan's Mumtaz Group may be planning to kidnap U.S. and UK citizens working in NGOs and consulates, as well as dual-citizen Pakistanis who are either visiting or residing in Peshawar, as of June 26. Peshawar's University Town could be the likely venue for such an operation. Further, the following individuals who probably reside in (the) Peshawar area could be supporters of the Mumtaz Group: Fahim, son of Ihsanullah; Ayaz; Abdul Rehman Khan (Awami National Party) and his son, Yunas Khan, residents of Kafir Dheri, Peshawar; Garib Shah Badshah; and Muazzam Badshah, son of Shah Badshah."39. (S//FGI//NF) DS/TIA/ITA assesses the Mumtaz Group may be a reference to operations linked to al-Qa'ida leader Hamza al-Jawfi (a.k.a. Mumtaz; TIDE number 70390) who died in a late-February explosion in North Waziristan. Mumtaz is an oft-used alias by senior al-Qa'ida leaders that is arguably inauspicious. The now-deceased Hamzah Rabi and Abu Khabab al-Masri both used this alias as well. Worryingly, the other operatives DS/TIA/ITA suspects belong to this group are linked to ongoing, credible planning against Peshawar cantonment as well as American personnel and convoys belonging to U.S. Consulate Peshawar.40. (S//FGI//NF) Although al-Jawfi is dead, it is possible the operations referenced can be linked to al-Jawfi's former courier and Imran (TIDE number 14399906), who collaborates closely with Mohmand Agency-based Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) commander Hakimullah Mahsud. Early-April reporting from Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) links Imran -- described as an Uzbeki militant responsible for the November 12, 2008, murder of a USAID contractor and the August 26, 2008, ambush of the principal officer's (PO's) vehicle in Peshawar -- to TTP operative Faruq's ongoing planning for an attack on Peshawar's cantonment using multiple suicide operatives. Faruq is also likely involved in conducting al-Qa'ida-linked operational surveillance against the PO of U.S. Consulate Peshawar, a four-vehicle SUV protective convoy, and a vehicle workshop also affiliated with Post. Of note, however, ISI reported the capture of an individual named Imran in mid-June; although, it cannot be confirmed if this is the same Uzbeki Imran mentioned in earlier reporting. (Appendix sources 31-38)41. (S//FGI//NF) Pakistan - Threats against Punjab and Islamabad: Reporting continues to circulate detailing ongoing plans by Pakistani extremists to launch suicide operations in Punjab Province and Islamabad. In Islamabad, threats specify the targeting of embassies located in the F-6/2 sector, police post Aabpara in Islamabad, the Imam Bargah in G-6/2, Senator Tariq Azim, and Barri Imam Shrine. In Lahore and greater Punjab Province, suicide operatives may seek to strike against foreigners in crowded areas or the Barbar Data Sahib Shrine. Although it remains unclear if these named targets are an accurate reflection of extremists' operational plans, it is of note late-June reporting also mentions the cultivation and use of sympathetic madrassas and extremists located in targeted cities to carry out future attacks.42. (S//NF) As of late June, TTP reportedly tasked Abdul Malik Mujahid to launch suicide attacks against unspecified foreigners in crowded places in Punjab, with Mujahid considering the use of sympathetic madrassas as shelter prior to conducting an attack. Madrassas under consideration included the Jami Ashrafia and Jamiat ul-Manzur ul-Islami in Lahore. Separately, tearline from late June reports, "Militant commander Khan Bahadur, son of Sher Bahadur, is the local militant commander in the Watkai area. Bahadur currently may be residing in Islamabad, while reorganizing his group to operate in difference parts of Pakistan, as of June 25." Although there is limited information regarding the identity of Khan Bahadur (possible TIDE number 238258), earlier sensitive intelligence suggests he has served as an interlocutor in urban areas for Waziristan-based militants since 2007. According to late-January 2008 tearline, "... A Khan Bahadur (or Bhadur) in Lahore was involved in efforts to arrange talks and perhaps a government announcement for a cease-fire and helping coordinate a separate announcement from the Mujahidin, hopefully by October 13...."43. (S//FGI//NF) As underscored by the events during and following the Lal Masjid (Red Mosque) confrontation in Islamabad in July 2007, the continued existence of networks in Islamabad that can organize and facilitate protests and terrorist activity in the vicinity of the capital is indeed troubling. Notably, a body of intelligence reporting preceding the Lal Masjid confrontation suggests Pakistan-based extremists viewed the brewing tension between the madrassas and Islamabad one part of a larger comprehensive effort to re-energize and expand their jihadi operations from their strongholds in the tribal areas and Northwest Frontier Province. Interestingly, reporting from May 2007 citing a commander 10 corps lieutenant also noted 70 mosques in and around Islamabad would likely support extremist activity associated with the now-infamous Lal Masjid, which was also an unauthorized mosque. Of concern, since 2008 attacks in Pakistan have repeatedly targeted Westerners, coinciding with an unprecedented number of attacks in both Lahore and Islamabad. (Appendix sources 39-47)44. (U) Cyber Threats45. (U) EUR CTAD comment: The latest version of the National Security Strategy released by the UK Government includes a public cyber security strategy. The report calls for the establishment of two new offices with cyber security responsibilities and approves the use of offensive operations as a countermeasure to attacks against British systems. The Office of Cyber Security, falling under the Cabinet Office, will be the central body charged with coordinating with industry and developing strategy. The Cyber Security Operations Centre based at Government Communications Headquarters, the UK's primary signals intelligence agency, will be responsible for conducting offensive operations. According to press reports, the UK Government has hired several former hackers to staff the centre.46. (S//NF) NEA CTAD comment: DoD reporting indicates as of mid-May, several Persian-language hacker forums are sharing information pertaining to a variety of hacking codes, tools, and video tutorials. One of the more notable findings was XXXXXXXXXXXX a backdoor Trojan horse program that allows for remote exploitation of an affected system and can provide denial-of-service capabilities. This particular malicious code is reportedly similar to a tool used against Georgian systems in 2008 (NFI).47. (SBU) EAP CTAD comment: According to South Korean press reporting, the Republic of Korea's (RoK's) Defense Security Command (DSC) has declared intrusion attempts against the RoK's military computer networks have increased 20 percent in 2009, compared to those detected in 2008. The DSC further stated that 89 percent of the attempts are unsophisticated efforts to hack into servers and Internet homepages, whereas the remaining 11 percent appear to be more advanced attempts to obtain intelligence information. Of note, in an effort to deal with the increasing cyber threat, the RoK's National Intelligence Service has recommended President Lee Myung-bak appoint an aide to assist with the country's cyber security issues.48. (S//NF) SCA CTAD comment: According to Defense Intelligence Agency reporting, the Government of India (GoI) continues efforts to advance its computer security programs -- particularly in light of increased concerns over Chinese computer network exploitation efforts -- but progress is hampered by significant disagreements within its departments. The key GoI organizations involved in developing and implementing security policies are identified as the Ministry of Telecommunications and the Research and Analysis Wing. Although the Indian Army is primarily responsible for the security of military networks, Indian officials acknowledge Army representatives have been largely left out of discussions. Additionally, some other key groups, such as the National Technical Reconnaissance Organization and the Indian Defense Intelligence Agency, have reportedly failed to offer significant contributions. Private security companies are also concerned that the lack of input from the private sector may lead to unfair regulations regarding telecommunications monitoring.49. (SBU) Domestic CTAD comment: On June 22, Websense Security Labs issued an alert after discovering the official website of the Embassy of Ethiopia in Washington, DC, had been subverted with obfuscated JavaScript code hidden in an inline frame (IFrame) with the goal of infecting visitors to the site with malicious software (malware). The code redirected users to sites where malware, including Trojan downloaders, were installed without explicit user action. According to the alert, the site that hosted the malicious JavaScript is currently down. On March 20, security company Sophos discovered a similar IFrame infection on the same website. At the time, researchers at Sophos noted it resembled the attack on the Washington, DC, Embassy of Azerbaijan website that occurred in early March. The researchers also indicated the redirected sites had been used by Russian cyber criminals in previous malware infections. (Appendix sources 48-50)50. (C) EAP China - Beijing TOPSEC founder indicates PRC investment:51. (S//NF) Key highlights: o Founder of TOPSEC and iTrusChina notes PRC funding and directive in media interview. o TOPSEC is China's largest provider of information security products and services. o TOPSEC provides services and training for the PLA and has recruited hackers in the past. o Potential linkages of China's top companies with the PRC illustrate the government's use of its "private sector" in support of information warfare objectives.52. (SBU) Source paragraph: "During an interview with journalists from China News Network, chairman of both Beijing TOPSEC and iTrusChina, He Weidong, spoke about the two companies, to include investment and contract from the Chinese Government (People's Republic of China (PRC)) .... Tianrongxin's capital came from two parts. The Chinese Government share one part of the investment, and the management department (of Tianrongxin) share the other part. He further stated that Tianrongxin was not really a company but a research institute; in 1995, the company took contracts from the government's research and development tasks."53. (S//NF) CTAD comment: In November 1995, He Weidong founded the security company Tianrongxin, a.k.a. Beijing TOPSEC Network Security Technology Company, Ltd. TOPSEC is a China Information Technology Security Center (CNITSEC) enterprise and has grown to become China's largest provider of information security products and services. TOPSEC is credited with launching China's first indigenous firewall in 1996, as well as other information technology (IT) security products to China's market, to include virtual private networks, intrusion detection systems, filtering gateways, and security auditing and management systems. Additionally, in September 2000, Weidong founded the company Tianweichengxin, a.k.a. iTrusChina, which became the first experimental enterprise to develop business Public Key Infrastructure/Certification Authority services approved by China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.54. (SBU) CTAD comment: During an interview with China News Network, Weidong stated that half of TOPSEC's start-up capital came from the PRC, with the other half coming from the company's management department. Additionally, he pointed out that TOPSEC began not as a company, but as a small research institute that took contracts from the government's research and development tasks (NFI). The turning point for TOPSEC came in 1996 when the company won a significant contract bid from the Chinese State Statistics Bureau. Since winning the bid, TOPSEC maintained a 100-percent sales growth in the following years. Weidong noted the company started out with 30,000 RMB (approximately $4,400) in 1995, and by 2002, had earnings of 3 billion RMB (approximately $440,000,000). Interestingly, shareholders did not receive bonuses, as all earnings went for future investment. Weidong also stated a bank loan was never used.55. (S//NF) CTAD comment: Of note, the CNITSEC is responsible for overseeing the PRC's Information Technology (IT) security certification program. It operates and maintains the National Evaluation and Certification Scheme for IT security and performs tests for information security products. In 2003, the CNITSEC signed a Government Security Program (GSP) international agreement with Microsoft that allowed select companies such as TOPSEC access to Microsoft source code in order to secure the Windows platform. Shortly thereafter, in 2004, People's Liberation Army (PLA) officer Yang Hua (GSP Communications Department's 3rd Communication Regiment, PLA 61416 Unit) was sent to TOPSEC to receive network-security training.56. (S//NF) CTAD comment:Additionally, CNITSEC enterprises has recruited Chinese hackers in support of nationally-funded "network attack scientific research projects." From June 2002 to March 2003, TOPSEC employed a known Chinese hacker, Lin Yong (a.k.a. Lion and owner of the Honker Union of China), as senior security service engineer to manage security service and training. Venus Tech, another CNITSEC enterprise privy to the GSP, is also known to affiliate with XFocus, one of the few Chinese hacker groups known to develop exploits to new vulnerabilities in a short period of time, as evidenced in the 2003 release of Blaster Worm (See CTAD Daily Read File (DRF) April 4, 2008). 57. (S//NF) CTAD comment: While links between top Chinese companies and the PRC are not uncommon, it illustrates the PRC's use of its "private sector" in support of governmental information warfare objectives, especially in its ability to gather, process, and exploit information. As evidenced with TOPSEC, there is a strong possibility the PRC is harvesting the talents of its private sector in order to bolster offensive and defensive computer network operations capabilities.(Appendix sources 51-52)58. (U) Suspicious Activity Incidents59. (SBU) EUR Iceland - A man and a woman photographed in the area north of U.S. Embassy Reykjavik June 25. They then walked toward the backside of the Post, where they took additional photographs before departing on foot. The man was seen photographing in the neighborhood for an additional 3 hours. The Surveillance Detection Team found it unusual the subjects photographed sites other than tourist attractions. (SIMAS Event: Reykjavik-00257-2009)60. (SBU) AF Guinea - Two young men were photographed U.S. Embassy Conakry June 25. A gendarme stopped the pair and took them to a nearby security booth where they were interviewed by Post's foreign security national investigator. Their photos of the Embassy were deleted, and the subjects were released with a warning.61. (SBU) Record Check/Investigation: Subject 1: Mamdou Mouminatou Diallo. DPOB: 1982; Labe, Guinea. Cell phone number: 64 381 559. Subject 2: Mamadou Diallo. DPOB: 1984; Koundara, Guinea. Cell phone number: 64 184 665. (SIMAS Event: Conakry-01492-2009)62. (SBU) NEA Tunisia - A man sat at Marsaoul Caf in Tunis focusing on the road leading to the U.S. Ambassador's residence June 4. After 30 minutes, the subject got into his car and departed the area. The man was previously seen at the caf on May 15 for approximately 1 hour.63. (SBU) RSO Action/Assessment: The caf is located at the foot of the hill near the Ambassador's residence (the residence is located at the end of the road, approximately one-quarter to one-half mile away). This is the second time the individual and vehicle were spotted. However, Tunisian police do not share information concerning routine traffic stops or suspicious persons questioned/seen near the Embassy or Ambassador's residence. If the vehicle is seen again, the RSO will attempt to retrieve information on the owner.64. (SBU) XXXXXXXXXXXXSECRET//FGI//NOFORNFull Appendix with sourcing available upon request. CLINTON
The hacking of Google that forced the search engine to withdraw from mainland China was orchestrated by a senior member of the communist politburo, according to classified information sent by US diplomats to Hillary Clinton's state department in Washington.The leading politician became hostile to Google after he searched his own name and found articles criticising him personally, leaked cables from the US embassy in Beijing say.That single act prompted a politically inspired assault on Google, forcing it to "walk away from a potential market of 400 million internet users" in January this year, amid a highly publicised row about internet censorship.The explosive allegation that the attack on Google came from near the top of the Communist party has never been made public until now. The politician allegedly collaborated with a second member of the politburo in an attempt to force Google to drop a link from its Chinese-language search engine to its uncensored google.com version.A cable from the Beijing embassy marked as secret records that attempts to break into the accounts of dissidents who used Google's Gmail system had beenco-ordinated "with the oversight of" the two politburo members.The cyber assault was described to the Americans by a high-level Chinese source as "100% political in nature" and having "nothing to do with removing Google... as a competitor to Chinese search engines".Last December Google said that it was hit by a "highly sophisticated and targeted attack on our corporate infrastructure". Part of it was aimed at the Gmail accounts of "Chinese human rights activists" – although in a statement released in January, Google said that there was no evidence the hackers were successful. Shortly after the attack,Google chose to abandon mainland China. It relocated to Hong Kong, where it was able to run an uncensored version of its website in English and Chinese, ending an awkward attempt to reconcile partial adherence to Chinese requirements with western democratic values.While Google and the US suspected leading Chinese politicians were behind the hacking, neither the company nor the US government said so at the time. Diplomats even discussed whether China's most powerful man, Hu Jintao, the president, or his prime minister, Wen Jiabao, were "aware of these actions". The secret note sent back to Washington concedes that "it is unclear" whether advance knowledge of the attack went right to the top.Google, whose motto is Don't Be Evil, entered China in 2006. In an attempt to gain market share from local rival Baidu, it launched Google.cn, in which results relating to Tibet, Taiwan and the Tiananmen Square massacre were among those filtered out.Google retained a link to the unfiltered Google.com on its Google.cn website, which prompted months of tension before the January incident. A cable from Beijing records that Google was alreadysounding the alarm to the most senior American diplomat in the country at the time.Dan Piccuta, the US chargé d'affaires, was told how the prominent politician had "recently discovered that Google's worldwide site is uncensored" after he "allegedly entered his own name and found results critical of him". Shortly afterwards, according to the  cable, the Chinese government ordered "the three dominant SOE [state influence enterprises] telecoms [companies] to stop doing business with the company".However, that was not enough to persuade Google to back down. The US embassy was told that "removing the link to Google.com is against the company's principles". It refused to block access to Google.com.China then upped its attacks on Google, according to another cable. A group of Chinese internet users reported that Google China was "not effectively filtering pornographic sites" and the Chinese government blocked access to Google for 24 hours.The documents reveal a close relationship between Google and the US authorities in China. In January, a few days after Google made the hacking public – without specifying who it believed was responsible – Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, made a speech in Washington entitled "remarks on internet freedom".Clinton weighed in heavily on the side of Google, warning that "countries that restrict free access to information or violate the basic rights of internet users risk walling themselves off from the progress of the next century".She called on the Chinese government to "conduct a thorough review of the cyber intrusions" without revealing that it was her own officials who believed the attack was co-ordinated from inside the Chinese politburo.
XXXXXXXXXXXXXUNCLAS SECTION 01 OF 02 BEIJING 001957SENSITIVESIPDISSTATE FOR EAP/CM - SFLATT, JHABJANSTATE EEB/CIP - SFLYNN, FSAEEDUSTR FOR AWINTER, JMCHALE, TWINELANDCOMMERCE FOR MACCOMMERCE FOR ITA - NMELCHERNSC FOR JLOIEO 12958N/ATAGSETRD, PHUM, PGOV, ECON, CHSUBJECT: GOOGLE CLAIMS HARRASSMENT BY CHINESE GOVERNMENT1. (SBU) Summary. XXXXXXXXXXXXX  claim the company's services have been blocked by the Chinese government periodically over the past three years. After users reported on June 18 that Google.cm search engine was not filtering returns for pornographic sites, the government on June 24 again blocked the company's services for 24 hours resulting in the loss of 20 percent of its traffic that day.XXXXXXXXXXXXX believe the real reason for the government's wrath is the company's refusal to remove a link to google.com from the google.cn website. They argue doing so would be in violation of a commitment the company made with Congress. End Summary.2. (SBU) In conversations XXXXXXXXXXXXX told ADCM and EconOff that the Chinese government has been blocking several of Google's Internet sites periodically for the past three years. They said the blocking and other harassment had intensified in June 2009, purportedly because of the search engine's failure to filter some inappropriate or illicit content found on the web.3. (SBU)XXXXXXXXXXXXX  said that XXXXXXXXXXXXX a group of Chinese Internet users reported that Google.cn was not effectively filtering pornographic sites. XXXXXXXXXXXXX said Google China representatives were called to a meeting co-hosted by the State Council Information Office (SCIO, responsible for controlling Internet content), the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT, responsible for Internet technology and policy), and the Ministry of Public Security (MPS, responsible for Internet crime). The Ministries demanded Google provide better filtering on its Google.cn search engine and temporarily stop indexing sites outside of China. XXXXXXXXXXXXX The company refused this request.4. (SBU) Google then experienced a wave of "attacks" in the media reporting that pornographic material could be found through the Google search engine. (Note: In the nine days following the June 18 incident, an incomplete list of reporting in the Chinese press contains 57 separate articles attacking Google. End Note). On June 24 servers in China were virally infected, causing them to redirect computers attempting to reach Google pages to an unknown web site. These attacks made Google services unavailable to many Chinese users for approximately 24 hours, and caused the company to lose 20% of its traffic on that day.Lose the Google.com-------------------5. (SBU) BothXXXXXXXXXXXXX believe the real reason for the government's wrath is Google's refusal to remove the link to Google.com from the Google.cn website.XXXXXXXXXXXXX explained that, when the company decided to enter the Chinese market, it testified before Congress that it would agree to censor its search results in China as required by Chinese law based on three principles. First, the company would not store private user information so as to avoid persecution of individuals based on their use of Google's services.  Second, the company would disclose to users when a search result had been censored. Third, Google would maintain a link from the Google.cn homepage to Google.com.6. (SBU) According to XXXXXXXXXXXXX, from 2007 through 2009 Google received numerous informal inquiries from the Chinese government as to the possibility of removing the Google.com link. The company repeatedly explained that it could not, based on its promise to Congress. XXXXXXXXXXXXX  said the government, for the first time, verbally requested the company remove the link. Google China explained removing the link was not required under Chinese law and reiterated that doing so would violate the company's commitment. This was the first time the company had explicitly denied a government request, XXXXXXXXXXXXX stated.Pulling Out an Option---------------------7. (SBU) XXXXXXXXXXXXX said the June 24 blocking of Google's services is only the most recent of a three year history of blockings. He noted the company's You Tube service has been entirely blocked since March 24.  He believes the company is being harassed. XXXXXXXXXXXXX  said the negative press coverage and service outages have caused the company to lose market share. XXXXXXXXXXXXXsays the company is regularly audited by tax authorities, and XXXXXXXXXXXXX. XXXXXXXXXXXXX said that, faced with the continualBEIJING 00001957 002 OF 002difficulties of doing business in China, the company may even consider pulling out of the market.8. (SBU) Comment. Google is the only international search engine still doing business in China. It is an important symbol. If Google were forced to withdraw from the market, the move could attract heavy international attention. End Comment.
Monday, 18 May 2009, 23:26C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 03 BEIJING 001336SIPDISState for EAP/CM - SFlatt, PPark, AGoodmanState for EEB/CIP - FSaeed, SFlynnUSTR for AWinter, JMcHale, AMain, TWinelandCommerce for MACCommerce for ITA - IKasoff, JWuEO 12958DECL: 5/19/2029TAGSETRD, PGOV, SOCI, SCUL, ECON, CHSUBJECT:XXXXXXXXXXXXXRef: Beijing XXXXXXXXXXXXXClassified By: Economic Minister Counselor Robert Luke. Reasons 1.4 (b) and (d).Summary-------1. (C) CDA spoke by phone with  on May 14 to discuss recent pressure by the Chinese government to censor the company's Chinese website, accelerated perhaps by the approach of significant political anniversaries.XXXXXXXXXXXXX  averred that the root of the problem was China's Politburo Standing Committee member XXXXXXXXXXXXX who wants the company to remove a link to the uncensored google.com site from its sanitized Chinese version, google.cn.  XXXXXXXXXXXXX  said Google China has resisted that step as against company principles, though it has taken other smaller measures to try and placate the government. Thus far that tactic has been unsuccessful, and the government has already taken commercial steps against Google, including telling the three dominant SOE telecoms to stop doing business with the company. CDA and XXXXXXXXXXXXX  discussed possible USG advocacy, including having imminent visiting Codels and possible Cabinet-level officials raise this directly. For the moment, Google does not wish to go public, preferring to see if current efforts produce results. End Summary.2. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXXX, CDA Dan Piccuta and XXXXXXXXXXXX  talked XXXXXXXXXX about the increasing censorship pressure Google is facing.XXXXXXXXXXXX  said Politburo Standing Committee member XXXXXXXXXXXX recently discovered that Google's worldwide site is uncensored, and is capable of Chinese language searches and search results. XXXXXXXXXXXX allegedly entered his own name and found results critical of him. He also noticed the link from google.cn's homepage to google.com, whichXXXXXXXXXXXX reportedly believes is an "illegal site." XXXXXXXXXXXX asked three ministries (note: most likely the Ministry of Industry and Information Industry, State Council Information Office, and Public Security Bureau.) to write a report about Google and demand that the company cease its "illegal activities," which include linking to google.com.Commercial Consequences Already Visible---------------------------------------3. (SBU) XXXXXXXXXXXX  said that removing the link to google.com is against the company's principles, and its leadership has definitively refused to make such a change, despite the importance of the Chinese market. Google recently has officially but "politely" told the government this, XXXXXXXXXXXX  noted, and their Chinese interlocutors at the time were visibly unhappy and said they would report the news to XXXXXXXXXXXX . XXXXXXXXXXXX reported that Google had, however, already made some changes to its Chinese site and will continue to make others. Nonetheless, he said China has already asked its three state-owned telecom companies to stop working with China, a hard blow because mobile Internet is Google's "big bet in China."XXXXXXXXXXXX  said one telecom company is seeking to back out of an existing contract with Google, while the two others have stopped moving ahead with negotiations. Other SOEs have also been asked to stop working with Google in China,XXXXXXXXXXXX  said.4. (SBU) The best case scenario XXXXXXXXXXXX   foresees is that China responds to Google's official refusal to take down the link by issuing an order warning against further non-compliance. More likely isBEIJING 00001336 002 OF 003that google.com will be blocked in China, either sporadically or permanently. This would be similar to China's current blocking of YouTube, but with greater implications for users including business travelers and tourists, advertisers, and for Google's network and technology platforms, possibly affecting other services like Gmail.thought it also possible that the government might revoke Google's license to operate in China. He acknowledged that sensitive anniversaries in 2009 present special challenges to the Chinese government, especially the XXXXXXXXXXXX  June 4 Tiananmen anniversary. (Note: Possibly in preparation for this anniversary year, Chinese censors have engaged in a months-long "anti- vulgar" campaign to shut down hundreds of "illegal" websites; see reftel.)Google Deems its Legal Basis Sound----------------------------------5. (SBU) Google lawyers have found no legal basis for China's demands,  XXXXXXXXXXXX  reported. While the government has called google.com an illegal website to justify its request for removal of the link, Chinese law does not explicitly identify the site as illegal, the site is not blocked by China, and thousands of other Chinese websites include links to google.com.6. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX  said Google faces the dilemma of losing the Chinese market in retaliation for maintaining Google's integrity and brand. The CDA and XXXXXXXXXXXX discussed the difficulty of engaging China on this matter, since no trade obligations cover China's censorship regime, but considered what U.S. Government actions might be possible nonetheless.USG High-Level Advocacy Requested---------------------------------7. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX  suggested that high-level USG officials phone or write to XXXXXXXXXXXX to indicate support for Google's operations in China, in accordance with Chinese law. He suggested the letter could urge further dialogue toward a mutually acceptable resolution and suggest diplomatic or commercial consequences in the event of rash or disruptive action. After some discussion, XXXXXXXXXXXX  concluded that intervention by Secretary Locke might be the most effective step.8. (C)XXXXXXXXXXXX   He noted that Google has also raised the issue with Representatives Kirk and Larson. However, he stressed, he would like USG support in making contact.9. (C) The CDA said senior Embassy officials will meet with relevant Chinese ministries to make it clear the USG is aware of the issue, and to urge them to work constructively with Google.XXXXXXXXXX  stressed that, before the USG engages on their behalf, Google would prefer to wait a few days to see what other steps the Chinese government might take.Google History in China-----------------------10. (SBU) XXXXXXXXXXXX  explained that Google entered the Chinese market in 2006 under scrutiny from Congress and shareholders, both concerned with the company's agreement to be subject to censorship. To enter the China market legally, but remain faithful to its values, the company took a path ofBEIJING 00001336 003 OF 003"responsible engagement" that included three commitments: Google will never disclose to the Chinese government any personal information about its users or their search habits; Google will always include a disclosure notice to identify when search results had been removed due to censorship; and Google will always provide an uncensored, U.S.-hosted site, subject to U.S. law.11. (SBU) XXXXXXXXXXXX said the Chinese government's granting of the licenses necessary for Google to operate in China implied passive approval or at least tolerance of the above principles. Since 2006, XXXXXXXXXXXX  said, the company has operated responsibly and legally, following censorship orders just as other companies do. The vast majority of Chinese government requests for censorship have been related to pornographic material and illegal activities, XXXXXXXXXXXX said. In total, only about one percent of search results are blocked in China, according to the company.12. (SBU)XXXXXXXXXXXX observed that, before Google China was formed, google.com was blocked in China in 2002 for approximately two months. At the time, he said, scholarly users were the company's largest constituency, and their complaints about limited access to academic materials through Google ultimately caused the government to re-open the site. This time,XXXXXXXXXXXX  observed,XXXXXXXXXX seems unconcerned with such repercussions, and will likely not yield to pressure from China's Internet community. XXXXXXXXXXXX  he said, believes Google is a "tool" of the USG being used to "foment peaceful revolution in China."Comment-------13. (C) While we can neither confirm nor deny the provocative language and views attributed to XXXXXXXXXXXX,  the claims of government-forced retribution by the major SOE telecoms companies are cause for serious concern. The potential for continuing escalation by the Chinese, assuming Google sticks to its guns -- and the likelihood of loud U.S. Congressional and public outcry if it caves -- suggest a high-level USG response may be in order. While we cannot verify XXXXXXXXXXXX's claims of commercial retaliation, such a move seems quite possible. End Comment.
XXXXXXXXXXXXSUBJECT: GOOGLE UPDATE: PRC ROLE IN ATTACKS AND RESPONSESTRATEGYXXXXXXXXXXXXBEIJING XXXXXXXXXXXX 001.2 OF 002Classified By: DCM Robert Goldberg. Reasons 1.4 (b), (d).1. (S) Summary: A well-placed contact claims that the Chinese government coordinated the recent intrusions of Google systems. According to our contact, the closely held operations were directed at the Politburo Standing Committee level.-- Another contact claimed a top PRC leader was actively working with Google competitor Baidu against Google.-- Chinese concerns over the recent Google threat to take down the company's Chinese-language search engine google.cn over censorship and hacking allegations were focused on the service's growing popularity among Chinese Internet users and a perception that the USG and Google were working in concert.-- An appeal to nationalism seems to be the Chinese government's chosen option to counter Google's demand to provide unfiltered web content.-- Contacts in the technology industry tell us that Chinese interference in the operations of foreign businesses is widespread and often underreported to U.S. parent companies. End Summary.Attacks Directed at High Level------------------------------2. (S)    XXXXXXXXXXXX told PolOff that the closely held Chinese government operations against Google had been coordinated out of the State Council Information Office  XXXXXXXXXXXX It was not until Google's public announcement of the intrusions into its systems that the issue had been discussed more widely within the Party. (Note: It is unclear whether President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao were aware of these actions before Google's going public.) As a result of Google's announcement, the PBSC had taken up the issue of Internet controls and the Google case in a series of meetings (reftel). XXXXXXXXXXXX stated that PRC operations against Google were "one hundred percent" political in nature and had nothing to do with removing Google, with its minority market share, as a competitor to Chinese search engines. Separately, XXXXXXXXXXXX told ECON MinCouns that he believed PBSC member  XXXXXXXXXXXX was working actively with Chinese Internet search giant Baidu against Google's interests in China.PRC Sees USG and Google Working Together----------------------------------------3. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX told PolOff  XXXXXXXXXXXX that Google's recent move presented a major dilemma (maodun) for the Chinese government, not because of the cyber-security aspect but because of Google's direct challenge to China's legal restrictions on Internet content. The immediate strategy,  XXXXXXXXXXXX said, seemed to be to appeal to Chinese nationalism by accusing Google and the U.S. government of working together to force China to accept "Western values" and undermine China's rule of law. The problem the censors were facing, however, was that Google's demand to deliver uncensored search results was very difficult to spin as an attack on China, and the entire episode had made Google more interesting and attractive to Chinese Internet users. All of a sudden,  XXXXXXXXXXXX continued, Baidu looked like a boring state-owned enterprise while Google "seems very attractive, like the forbidden fruit." He said it "seems clear" to the Chinese people that Google and the U.S. government were working together on Internet freedom and to undermine Chinese government controls on the Internet. That made some intellectuals happy,  XXXXXXXXXXXX said, but "some others" regarded it as interference in China's internal affairs.Industry: Interference Common, Paranoia Driving PRC Policy--------------------------------------------- -------------BEIJING XXXXXXXXXXXX OF 0024. (C)   XXXXXXXXXXXX noted the pronounced disconnect between views of U.S. parent companies and local subsidiaries. PRC-based company officials often downplayed the extent of PRC government interference in their operations for fear of consequences for their local markets. Our contact emphasized that Google and other U.S. companies in China were struggling with the stated Chinese goal of technology transfer for the purpose of excluding foreign competition. This consultant noted the Chinese were exploiting the global economic downturn to enact increasingly draconian product certification and government procurement regulations to force foreign-invested enterprises (FIEs) to transfer intellectual property and to carve away the market share of foreign companies.Chinese Media: American Hypocrisy and Cultural Hegemony--------------------------------------------- -----------5. (U) The Secretary's speech continued to dominate headlines January 25-26, with the official People's Daily (circ 2.2 million) alleging collusion between U.S. officials and the business community as evidenced by the propinquity of Google's rethink of its China business and the Secretary's speech. Chinese media again accused the U.S. of "cultural hegemony" for setting the standards for "so-called Internet freedom8 and of hypocrisy for calling for the free flow of information while using the Internet as a political and military tool. People's Daily-affiliated Global Times English (circ 150,000) called the speech a "milestone" showing that U.S. and Western political interests were "taking over every dimension" of cyberspace.6. (U) The Party-affiliated Beijing News (circ 530,000) opined that the speech showed "a huge gap between Chinese and American information industries, which may lead to a trade war strategy." In an article headlined "China Intensifies Counterattack on Internet Accusation," Global Times Chinese (circ 1.3 million) quoted Chinese scholar Niu Xinchun as rejecting the theory that U.S.-China conflict would replace the "G2" cooperation model, noting that U.S. attacks usually ended "poorly" when the U.S. considered its practical interests. Many papers quoted statements from the State Council Information Office and Ministry of Industry and Information Technology calling Chinese Internet controls "legitimate" and saying they should not be subject to "unjustifiable interference." Papers continued to conflate Google's China business strategy with the Secretary's speech.Blogging Circumscribed----------------------7. XXXXXXXXXXXX Anecdotally, censors appear to have cracked down on blogging about the Secretary's speech. Several bloggers who attended our XXXXXXXXXXXX  told us subsequently they had been instructed to take down their entries about the event XXXXXXXXXXXX. Secretary Clinton's speech is currently blocked in Chinese on state.gov but remains accessible on the U.S. Embassy website in both English and Chinese. HUNTSMAN
December's arctic welcome has caused chaos across the UK's transport system – motorways littered with abandoned cars, passengers trapped on freezing trains overnight, and planes grounded at Gatwick. There was also another of day of tube strikes.Not, then, the most fortuitous of weeks to launch a game based on London's public transport system – but that's what the team behind Chromaroma has done.Developed by production studio Mudlark – creators of the RSC's Twitterised Romeo and Juliet project Such Tweet Sorrow – the objective is to reveal the hidden joy of a well-planned detour, luckily timed connection or surprise discovery.Players sign up using their Oyster card login and then every tube, bus and Boris bike journey automatically adds points to their score. As one of four teams, players earn extra points by exploring alternative routes, getting a little exercise by getting off a stop early or undertaking a "psychogeographic" mission – like trying to find the "Faceless Woman" at Becontree between 11pm and 1am.Chromaroma has been in production for twelve months, so would it have been better to launch in a week that wasn't so disastrous for public transport? "Yes!" chuckles Mudlark managing director Toby Barnes. "It would definitely have been easier. But in the future we'll definitely reward people for making an effort, so it'll be about awards for being polite and helpful."Chromaroma's appeal lies in a combination of plotting our real-world movements on mesmerising moving maps, the charm of exploring and discovering new parts of the city, and competitiveness: can you get from Victoria to King's Cross faster than your friends?Barnes said the team could have built a check-in game for the iPhone rather than using real-world data they had persuaded TFL to share, "but that would basically be Foursquare," says Barnes."The challenge we chose was to do things the hard way, to create something you don't necessarily need a smartphone for."Barnes speaks with affection for TFL, which he describes as "having its feet in the Victorian age". He is also a fan of legendary London Underground map designer Harry Beck, whom he wanted to tip a modern hat to with Mudlark's visualisations of moving travel data.Barnes would eventually like to see Chromaroma go international, with teams in London, Moscow, Paris and Tokyo competing through their transport networks. In the meantime the spike in public transport users for the 2012 Olympics looks like a tasty opportunity.The concept of "gameification" – applying game dynamics such as points and rewards to marketing, education or anything else – has become increasingly mainstream, as have games like Farmville and Angry Birds, attracting new audiences of casual gamers.Alice Taylor, commissioning editor for Channel 4 Education – and a committed games geek – says there is a real benefit in game structures being applied to mundane tasks. "Any repetitive chore could probably benefit from gamification to some degree. The EpicWin iPhone app does it for household duties. It could be applied to dieting or homework."Chromaroma takes something boring – commuting – and makes it more playful, more interesting, more surprising. With quests, a player might discover areas of a town she never visited before, so with the right kind of design applied, that means beneficial new experiences."Where gameification gets scary is when it's misapplied or misused ... [such as] 'You're a level 10 smoker!' or 'Congratulations, you unlocked the 100 Big Macs badge!'. There will be plenty of that ... and it'll be level 20 infuriating."
BabelgumThe comedy section of US video portal Babelgum has several new creations that are more than worthy of your distraction. Celebrity Bric Brac features a bunch of drab porcelain figurines and car-boot trash that's brought to life by the voices of Morgan Freeman, Bill Cosby and Christopher Walken; a hilarious re-enactment of The Expendables finds the latter boasting "I've got a watch up my ass", while Freeman's china teddy bear is trapped in an internal monologue. Also great are Chad Vader – Darth's less sinister younger brother – and 8 Kilometers, "the gritty life story of Justin Bieber". Best of all, though, are Kanye's Tweets, in which a trio of  tiny children re-enact the rapper's occasionally brilliant Twitter feed, such as his classic expression, "man ninjas are kinda coool … I just don't know any personally".Scouting New YorkDespite the fact that this site is slightly better if you actually live in New York, it's still fun for those of us who live 3,500 miles away. Nick Carr is a film location scout whose work has taken him from the tops of skyscrapers (Spider-Man 3) to the depths of the city (The Taking Of Pelham 123) to hundreds of forgotten alleyways and abandoned buildings. He spends his days scouring the city for interesting and unique locations, many of which he shares here. As well as uncovering dozens of buildings, odd spots and details missed by native New Yorkers, the favourites sections houses posts on the locations of classic NY-shot movies Ghostbusters, Taxi Driver and Rosemary's Baby with photos of the sites today alongside film stills.Blog roll: New waveHarry's up: the golden age of the pop periodical.Like Punk Never HappenedReliving the greatest pop mag of all time, Smash Hits, one issue at a time.Pates TapesOne man's beloved cassette tape collection reborn online featuring vintage Peel sessions and more.Lost Bands Of The New Wave EraOur Daughters Wedding, Department S and other bands we can't remember.All Day SamplesBananarama meet Lady Gaga on Girl Talk's new sampledelic album, available free online.A Post Punk TumblrExcellent mix of vids, magazine cuttings and audio streams covering Orange Juice to the B-52s.The Beat!MP3 blog covering new wave, dark pop, Italo house and shoegaze.What we learned on the web this weekBraap … brap … braaaaaap. Ads from a bygone age.48 print ads that would never be allowed todayHow a world map would look if rearranged by populationHow to behave in the cinemaHow Wii hacks your emotionsWhat was rocking Ukraine in the 1960scanyoudrawtheinternet.com? No, you can't.Where your poop goesOne of our ninjas is missingThe news in rhymeIf Ikea made instructions for everythingHow to really annoy your neighbours this ChristmasJohnny Cash wrote a mean To Do list
Perhaps more than any other make of car,  new Alfa Romeos  tend to arrive on the&nbsp;scene trailing a&nbsp;crushing amount of&nbsp;historical baggage. There's a reflexive focus on the tradition, with its glorious images of old, invariably red spiders and shiny 105s, and before long, fully-formed adults start exchanging moist memories of the first time they sat in an Alfa.The theme that underlies this wistful nostalgia comes under the old gittish heading of "They don't make 'em like that any more". No, they don't, but they make them better nowadays than in the 80s, when each new Alfa seemed designed to make fans weep, and not with pleasure.Theoriginal 50s Giuliettawas a&nbsp;handsome beast, chunky, shapely and cool – the kind of thing from which you could imagine Marcello Mastroianni emerging with a cigarette in his moody mush and an even moodier beauty on his arm.The new Giulietta isn't quite in that aesthetic league, but it's nonetheless an attractive car. The snub nose brings the most out of the famous triangle grille, lending the bonnet a kind of tough elegance, and its squat rear helps foster the impression that it's a sporty coupe. It's actually a five-door but the rear handles are cleverly hidden in the C pillar – too clever for many passengers, no doubt, who may find themselves patting the rear doors in the style of a mystified mime artist.Inside, the quality of the materials doesn't quite live up to the classicism of the style, but that's modernity in all its plastic prudence.I can't say I'm a fan of the DNA system of three different engine settings (Dynamic, Normal, All-weather) that's common to a variety of Alfas, if only because of the irritation of having to remember to put it on "Dynamic", the only mode that makes you hanker for the autostrada south of Naples. Still, it must be said that driving on "D" is safer than – and perhaps just as much fun as – driving on E.As a result of Alfa's MultiAir engine, it not only punches above its 1.4-litre volume, it's also reasonably parsimonious on petrol; less so on D.Perhaps, though, the Giulietta most excels in not being a VW. Because if you're looking to buy a&nbsp;car of this size, in this sector, then first stop is usually a Golf. The only possible criticism of a Golf – and one neatly satirised by its ad campaign – is that everyone's got one, or a car that looks almost exactly the same: it's all pragmatism and no romance.The Giulietta, however, is proudly and actively uninterested in imitating a Golf. It simply wants to gatecrash its market. It should be warmly welcomed to the party.Alfa Romeo Giulietta Lusso MultiAir 1.4 TBPrice£20,190Top speed135mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.8 secondsAverage consumption48.7 mpgCO2 emissions134 g/kmEco rating7/10Bound forCaffè NeroIn a wordShakesperean
Amazon invests $175m in online voucher service LivingSocialAmazon last night secured a preemptive strike against internet rival Google, investing $175m (£111m) in LivingSocial, the "social buying" service currently No 2 in the lucrative online voucher market.No details have been released about what proportion of LivingSocial's equity the world's largest online retailer; negotiations were said to have been for a 7% stake in the US startup, which would value the company as a whole at $2.5bn (£1.2bn). Google, meanwhile, is stillreported to beclosing in on a $6bn (£3.8bn) deal for the market leader, Groupon, which would make the start-up comfortably Google's most expensive investment to date.The deal between LivingSocial and Amazon will bring the former site somewhat under the umbrella of its new partner. Sources said to be familiar with the dealtold the Wall Street Journal's All Things Digital blogthat it would involve "deep integration" between the pair.A former LivingSocial backer, Lightspeed Venture Partners, also announced that it is putting a further $8m (£5m) into the company, bringing the company's total funding to $232m (£147m).LivingSocial has 10 million subscribers worldwide and is expected to hit $500m (£320m) in revenue in 2011. Groupon, its rival in pole position of the nascent online discount market, has more than 33 million subscribers worldwide and this week opened new services in the Far East.Both companies have the same basic model, offering discount vouchers with local retailers which become valid once a certain number of people take them up. The retailers pay to be included, and try to recoup any losses from the promotion through enhanced future business.The booming new market, based on age-old idylls, has recently become populated by a number of internet big hitters, not least Amazon andeBay.Chinese search leader Baidu also moved to preempt a Google-Groupon deal this weekwhen it launched similar serviceson an existing e-commerce platform. The low-key launch with limited offerings suggest the company, which controls the Chinese search market ahead of Google, was eager to launch its offering before any other company on its patch.Though Amazon were said to have been in discussions to invest in LivingSocial long before Google's apparent interest in the market, the deal appears to be hastened by it.Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners, told Reuters: "People are taking strategic positions in this marketplace. That's what's happening."The tie-up between LivingSocial and Amazon "given [Amazon] the pulse of what's happening in the space," he said. "Typically if you put in $175m you want an option to own this thing. Without that it doesn't make a lot of sense. And for $175 million, you better get a board seat."Friday's deal will likely hasten any further negotiations between Google and Groupon, with both Amazon and LivingSocial believed to be keen to lay the foundations for what will be the biggest challenge to Groupon's discount-based throne yet.
Trin timetable. Easy? Photo byrouadecon Flickr.Some rights reservedDevelopers are protesting over the decision of National Rail Enquiries (NRE), a subsidiary of the private - but publicly-subsidised - Association of Train Operating Companies (ATOC) to turn off its live departure board web service, and to insist on licences for access to its data and payments for use.But government ministers are to press NRE to provide better - and even free - access to the data on the basis of that it receives a subsidy, which brings the information into the public purview.In a notice posted on its site, NRE said that it will introduce developer tokens - issued to individuals or organisations and uniquely identifying services built by them - for "licensed" users.But it is also introducing a charging scheme, in which developers who write apps for the web or smartphones will be required to pay £1 per app sale to provide access to NRE's live departure boards, and £1.50 per app that offer access to NRE's live departure boards and journey planning systems.And for developers writing apps that use a subscription-based model, NRE has said that it "may look for a minimum monthly fee" - but has declined to specify what that would be.NRE is a wholly-owned subsidiary of ATOC,which haswhose members have revenues of around £6bn - of which £1bn comes from government subsidy. The issue of access to NRE's timetable details has become a thorny political point this year: in March, the then Prime Minister Gordon Brownsaidthat "Public transport timetables and real-time running information is currently owned by the operating companies. But we will work to free it up - and from today we will make it a condition of future franchises that this data will be made freely available." The next franchise is awarded in 2011.Francis Maude, the Cabinet Office minister, told the Guardian that he wants to bring the NRE data into the general category of free public data. "I know it's presently private, but we are looking to change that," he said. "My presumption is in favour [of making it free]. But there may be reasons for commercial confidentiality about some of the data."Developers argue that making NRE's data available for free, rather than charging for it, would bring clear benefits because it would allow more sites and apps to be built which could inform people about rail journeys - and thus lead to more trips, and so more revenue for ATOC's members.Malcolm Barclay, who has developed a number of travel apps,says NRE's position on charging is impossible to work with: "How can I possibly base any business model off that? So [NRE] just make up a number at some point if [they] feel like it and post an invoice?"Another developer, Alex Hewson,says that NRE has declined to provide him with a licencebecause he has been publicly critical of its practices in licensing. In a number of posts on hisbloghe has detailed how NRE first denied him access to its online feed, which he used to provide a free web app.NRE said that Hewson should have had a licence - which Hewson says he was never notified about - and now has been told by Derek Parlour, in charge of NRE's data system, that he would not be granted a licence because his posts have generated negative publicity about NRE's actions.Hewson has now written to Chris Scoggins, chief executive of NRE, asking for an explanation of NRE's "childish" actions. "Is it in fact the case that 'promoting the [rail] industry means licensees are not permitted any freedom of speech about NRE and its conduct, and that those who publicly criticize you will be denied access to the data feeds?"Hewson hasset up a web pageto record who has asked for a data licence from NRE and whether they have received it or been turned down.Jonathan Raper, who has also developed web services and mobile apps which use Transport for London data, told The Guardian: "NRE have erected a Kafka-esque licensing system to protect themselves and their chosen business partners from competition by independent developers as Malcolm Barclay has shown in his explosive blog posting today. This really has no place in the new world of Open data when the benefits of releases to developers have already been comprehensively demonstrated by the inspirational uses shown in London DataStore. It is simply not good enough for ATOC (NRE's owner) to claim that they are in the private sector and they can make their own rules when the entire business revenue of most train operating companies comes from the taxpayer or the passenger. The Office for Rail Regulation and the Secretary for State must modify the licence conditions under which train operating companies work, or legislate in the forthcoming Public Data Corporation bill to release this fundamentally public information."Perhaps then we will avoid the irresponsible behaviour we see today when NRE are publishing apparently live train running information that is a complete fiction. Many, many people will have gone to stations today on the basis of this to find out that their journey was wasted (I witnessed this today at my own local station in South London). More pairs of eyes on the underlying data will help improve this service and shake it out of the complacency and restrictions of the current situation."NRE says that it needs to charge and use identifiers for developer access because providing the data is not a trivial process: "On a normal day, NRE will deal with up to a million enquiries for real time information through the journey planners and live departure boards,"said a spokesman. "Demand can far exceed this on a particularly busy day. The real time information is complex and comes from numerous sources of information from the industry.The NRE spokesman added: "There is a presumption that a feed will be made available to organisations that undertake through the licence to use the data correctly. When we say 'correctly' we mean that it is important that information about services is provided impartially and doesn't favour one train company over another. We also want to ensure that licensees will reflect accurately the information that we provide for them and that it won't be changed in any way."However NRE and ATOC have come in for growing criticism over their treatment of developers and their approach to data. David Rowan, the editor of Wired UK,criticised NREin September, saying "ome dinosaurs flatly refuse to serve the public good. Chief among them is National Rail Enquiries, owned by the Association of Train Operating Companies, which continues to reject calls to open up its feeds -- despite collecting huge taxpayer subsidies. When I asked why, a press officer said 'it just isn't practical to make [services] entirely open to developers' as data was constantly being updated and the system would face 'extra strain'. Nonsense: it's simply an excuse to maximise revenues by charging for data that should be freely available."Scoggins responded the next month that "it isn't true that National Rail Enquiries refuses to open up its data feeds" and said that "we've opened up our data to a range of organisations, often free of charge, so that they can provide information about trains."But that approach now looks confused, given the decision to start charging. Barclays points out that the licence provided by NRE is one-sided, allowing it to change terms without any comeback, while distancing itself from any intellectual property issues that might arise from an app.Barclays says that this is a "failure of policy" following an investigation by the Office of the Rail Regulator: "The ORR effectively endorses ATOC to pass unqualified judgements on whether or not you are a suitable developer.  And if you don't like the outcome of your request, guess whom you complain to? Chris Scoggins, Chief Executive, National Rail Enquiries."He concludes: "Ultimately this a failure of policy. Numerous applications of enormous benefit for all (including ATOC's) could be delivered competitively if the data were freely accessible. ATOC's recent actions under the guise of 'security updates' is about protecting and controlling information and has nothing to do with security – it's about charging. This is an alarming development that will have and has already had severe consequences for the future of mobile applications &amp; the traveling public in the UK."I am calling on the government &amp; the Office of Rail Regulation to put a stop to this once &amp; for all. No more word-smithed voluntary guides of emptiness. Pass a law that mandates open electronic access to critical rail information for all."Updated to clarify that it is ATOC's members, not ATOC itself, receiving the public subsidy amid revenues of about £6bn.
DNS– or domain name system – is the protocol on the internet that turns human-comprehensible website names such as bbc.co.uk or guardian.co.uk into addresses understandable by machines.DNS translates human-language domain names – guardian.co.uk or wikileaks.org, for example – into machine-readable "IP addresses". These allow the users' computer to connect to the destination web server and get to what they're after.Normally, DNS is a superfast process that takes virtually no time at all, and once the "lookup" is done the client computer connects directly to the destination server, leaving the DNS server free to deal with another request. Almost every site has a server which does its DNS for it, though the two do not need to have any business connection.Free services like everyDNS offer DNS services to huge numbers of sites for free, but don't have any other link to the sites.If the DNS fails, however, the site is only reachable via an IP address.DNS failure, or DNS "poisoning" (in which the table of lookups is intentionally or accidentally filled with wrong information) creates huge problems: the former makes a site unreachable to most people, and the latter redirects them to fake sites.An "IP address"?IP stands for internet protocol and is the label assigned to each device – mobile phone, PC, tablet computer or website – that connects to the internet. Typically an IP address has a "dotted quad" form - four numbers each between 0 and 255, separated by a dot.Every internet-connected device needs to have a unique IP address, at least within its domain – although the outside world might see a household with two computers connected to a router as just having a single IP address, which belongs to the router.(The two computers will then have different IP addresses within the "subdomain" determined by the router. Those may be the same as other devices elsewhere in the world, but they aren't visible to their duplicates because the router "translates" their internal IP address into its own internet-facing IP address when they make an internet request, and translates it back when the response returns.)Thus the IP address for guardian.co.uk is 77.91.249.30 - sohttp://77.91.249.30is exactly equivalent tohttp://www.guardian.co.uk, but the former saves a DNS lookup and so is fractionally faster.However if the Guardian moves to a different host at some point after this article is written, the "dotted quad" address will fail. That makes DNS a more robust way to point to web sites, because it allows them to change between hosts in different companies or countries. But it does mean that if the DNS fails, the site effectively vanishes.A "DDoS" attack?Distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks are commonly used as a coordinated means of internet activism in protest at the target, or by hackers to threaten sites for blackmail - a common tactic a few years ago used against gambling sites.Typically, a hacker gains control of a few hundred or thousand infected PCs running Microsoft's Windows, and use them to "ping" - try to connect briefly - to the target site. A "syn flood" can consist of millions of pings per second, equilvalent to ringing the front door bell on the site and running away. In such a flood, it becomes impossible for the site to deal with legitimate requests.The only ways to deal with a DDOS attack are to wait for it to subside, to find out who is targeting the site and prevent them acting, or to recruit extra servers that can divert the "syn flood" away from the main site while allowing legitimate requests for full pages through.Providing such hosting help has become big business in the past few years as DDOS has become a more common attack method for criminal hackers.Further reading:• Wikipedia:Domain Name System• Wikipedia:Denial of service attacks
Friday's edition of Chatterbox...
Drug war. Photo bygreatsethon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat I'm Learning - Africa Needs Aid, Not Flawed Theories - The Gates NotesThat's the Bill Gates, yes. I'd never seen him write a review of someone else's work before that wasn't software. Gotta love how he calls him "Mr Ridley" throughout.Highlight text on web pages &gt;&gt; The Awesome HighlighterQuite neat, and a good way of sharing bits of pages you particularly want to show to people.History Sniffing: How YouPorn Checks What Other Porn Sites You've Visited and Ad Networks Test The Quality of Their Data &gt;&gt; ForbesAt YouPorn, "Those who visit the homemade-porn featuring site — essentially, a YouTube for porn enthusiasts — are subject to scrutiny, though, of the Web tracking variety. When a visitor surfs into the YouPorn homepage, a script running on the website checks to see what other porn sites that person has been to."How does it work? It's based on your browser changing the color of links you've already clicked on. A script on the site exploits a Web privacy leak to quickly check and see whether your browser reveals that the links to a host of other porn sites have been assigned the color "purple," meaning you've clicked them before."Other sites that do the same include, er, TheSun.co.uk.Wikileaks Cablegate Social Graph &gt;&gt; InkdroidNeat visualisation of where the cables went.Anatomy of a domain renewal scam &gt;&gt; The 23x blog"What they ask for is a stupidly high renewal fee and couch it in terms non-experts would fall for. In short, it's a scam designed to prey on those who might get scared into giving them money. They are telling you to give them money under false pretences and you should avoid doing so at all costs. At no point do they compare their prices to your current provider (hint: they're over double the cost my provider charges) or give you a compelling reason they would do a better job."Tell your friends.LastPass Acquires Xmarks! &gt;&gt; Xmarks Blog"We're also committed to keeping Xmarks free while implementing a viable long-term plan. Xmarks is transitioning to a "freemium" business model, the same model that allowed LastPass to grow into a thriving, profitable business. The browser add-on and the vast majority of what users have enjoyed remains free. Users can then opt to purchase Xmarks Premium for $12 per year, which includes new enhanced features like Android and iPhone mobile phone apps, priority support, and more. The Xmarks and LastPass Premium offerings are also available bundled together at a reduced subscription rate of $20 per year. For those of you who pledged your financial support, you can make good on your pledge today and upgrade."HTML5 ADVENTURE CALENDAR &gt;&gt; HTML5advent.comA day-by-day extravaganza of HTML5/CSS3 fun. If you get an iPad or other HTML5-capable portable device for Christmas, that's your day sorted.Statistical Analysis and Visualization of the Drug War in Mexico &gt;&gt; Diego Valle's BlogSimply awesome deployment of data analysis (including Benford's Law, a personal favourite) to show that Mexico has covered up 1,000 murders and a spiralling homicide rate, that the drug war isn't working and that things are getting worse there. Let's see some Wikileaks on Mexico now.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Research In Motion has bought Swedish design companyThe Astonishing Tribe(TAT) as the BlackBerry maker seeks to enhance the look and functionality of its screens ahead of the launch of its PlayBook tablet.It's the first acknowledgement that the company needs something new to make its systems compete with Apple's iPhone, and perhaps more urgently, with Google's Android interface - though the two have a lot of resemblances, notably their suitability for touch-only interfaces."TAT is renowned for their innovative mobile user interface (UI) designs and has a long history of working with mobile and embedded technology," RIM's chief technology officer, David Yach,wrote on a company blogannouncing the acquisition, whose value is undisclosed. "We're excited that the TAT team will be joining RIM and bringing their talent to the BlackBerry PlayBook and smartphone platforms."RIM has lost share to Apple and Android-based phones over the past three years, and Apple claimed to have passed it in sales in the quarter ended in September - though RIM hit back by saying that its quarter had another month to run.TAT's Cascade UI framework powers in-car infotainment systems as well as "15% of all mobile phones and 20% of all touch phones" shipped in 2010, according to its website. "We know what makes a great UI", it boasts.RIM's BlackBerry smartphones, traditionally targeted at corporate users, have struggled to impress consumers in comparison to more stylish devices such as the iPhone or Android phones.RIM, which bid for but failed to acquire Palm in mid-year, plans to launch its 7-inch PlayBook tablet, one of a growing number of competitors to Apple's iPad, in the first quarter of 2011. It has shown off the interface in short demonstrations, but further details including pricing have been hard to find.TAT currently supports developers and device manufacturers for Google's Android operating system, and counts Motorola, Sony Ericsson and Samsung among its customers."Of course we will honour our current agreements and service our existing customers and have taken all the necessary steps to keep the two commitments separated," TAT co-founder Paul Blomdahlsaidon the company's website.But that could leave the present companies in the lurch when their contracts end - and if they have not acquired the intellectual property in the interface from TAT would mean they need to find a new source for their interface, or redesign it.RIM has bought a number of companies to fill particular needs in recent years. They include QNX Software, which will power the PlayBook's operating system, and Torch Mobile, which enabled the Canadian company to upgrade its web browser, long derided as slow in comparison to rivals.The BlackBerry Torch, RIM's first phone to use the WebKit-based browser - already used by Apple and Android - was named in honour of the company.
Google is introducing a range of measures to improve its policing of digital piracy, promising to respond to requests for the removal of material that infringes copyright from its search service "within 24 hours".The US technology giant will implement the measures in the coming months as it attempts to react more swiftly in removing pirated content and to better promote legitimate music download sites. Google is responding to mounting pressure from film and music companies for action over copyright infringement.The anti-piracy measures will be introduced across Google's main online search service, but not its subsidiary YouTube. More than 35 hours of video is uploaded to YouTube every minute and the quantity of illegal content has sparked legal action from rights holders including Viacom and the Premier League. Google said it has already invested heavily in more advanced anti-piracy measures for YouTube.Kent Walker, general counsel for Google,said in a blogpost todaythat the company will "act on reliable copyright takedown requests within 24 hours"."As the web has grown, we have seen a growing number of issues relating to infringing content," he added."We respond expeditiously to requests to remove such content from our services, and have been improving our procedures over time. But as the web grows, and the number of requests grows with it, we are working to develop new ways to better address the underlying problem."Under the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act Google is required to take down pirated content within a reasonable timeframe once notified.Walker added that Google will start to censor its Autocomplete search function – which predicts what a web user might be about to input into the search box as they type – to "prevent terms that are closely associated with piracy" from appearing.For example, if a large number of users have been clicking through to illegal music websites after typing "Lady Gaga" into the search box, then the Autocomplete function would suggest them to other searchers.However, Google said that it would not be altering the actual search results that are delivered to users, meaning that illegal websites will still appear.In a bid to promote legal sources of film and music content, Walker said Google would "experiment" with having preview content, such as samples of music tracks, when the search results are returned. "We will be looking at ways to make this content easier to index and find," he added.Google also said that it would improve the anti-piracy procedures relating to its advertising program AdSense "working with rights holders to identify, and, when appropriate, expel violators".In a conference call with journalists today, Simon Morrison, copyright policy and communications manager for Europe, Middle East and Africa, made it clear that the measures did not involve video-sharing website YouTube.Morrison pointed out that YouTube is a "special case" as Google has already spent $30m and "tens of thousands of man hours" building a system for the video sharing website called Content ID, which tags copyright content and allows illegal material to be removed "within a few hours". "We have highly developed practices there," he said.Geoff Taylor, the chief executive of music industry body the BPI, welcomed the measures but said that Google needed to go further to eliminate digital piracy."It is encouraging that Google is beginning to respond to our calls to act more responsibly with regard to illegal content," said Taylor. "However this package of measures, while welcome, still ignores the heart of the problem. Google search overwhelmingly directs consumers looking for music and other digital entertainment to illegal sites."Taylor called on Google to work with the BPI to find a "technical solution that points music fans to sites that reward artists and everyone involved in creating music".Communications minister Ed Vaizey said: "I welcome these fresh measures to tackle on-line copyright infringement. They recognise the importance of consumers finding legitimate content. Infringement of copyright is not just a problem for creative industries, it harms the development of new and innovative ways for people to access content legitimately."
Google is moving into the ebook market from the end of this year with Google Editions, which will let people buy electronic books that they can read in any device with a web browser.The delayed launch, which had been expected by the end of the summer, will pitch the search engine giant into competition with Amazon and Apple, which have been building their own competing platforms respectively with the Kindle and the iPad, which runs the iBooks e-reading software.A UK launch is expected next year to follow the US launch.Google Editions will let people buy ebooks from Google or from the websites of independent bookstores, which are still struggling to compete with the two larger rivals and with Barnes &amp; Noble, which has its own "Nook" ebook reader.Customers would be able to set up accounts for buying books, which would be stored in an online "library", probably on Google's own servers, and read them on devices connected to the net such as smartphones or tablet computers. Millions of books would be available for free.Google has also taken measures to prevent piracy of books, tying them to buyers' accounts and splitting them into small pieces which would be very hard to reassemble into a book.The American Booksellers Association, a trade group for independent sellers, told the New York Times that more than 200 bookstores across the country could sign up. Users can already see previews of millions of new and backlist books in theGoogle Booksprogram.It is unclear whether Google Editions will be successful in luring consumers of ebooks away from established retailers such as Amazon, which already offers customers the ability to buy ebooks and read them on the Kindle, and from other devices such as the iPad through the Kindle app.However there is a growing number of 7" tablet computers being offered for sale which run Google's Android mobile phone system, and which will be able to link up to Google servers easily. That could offer a readymade audience for the company's offering. Samsung claims that it has alreadysold more than 600,000 of its Galaxy Tab product, though it is unclear whether this is to buyers or retailers.A greater concern may be over how the content is protected: publishers are fearful that widespread adoption of ebooks could lead to spiralling piracy mirroring that seen in the music business. But Google says in thepage about security for Editionsthat "once a Google Edition is purchased and is added to a consumer's bookshelf, it can only be accessed when the consumer logs into his or her Google account. When Google Editions are purchased on our site, a Google account is needed to access the content, reducing the likelihood that consumers will share their login information with others".It adds: "Each consumer's Google Edition has a unique coding that caches the book when it is accessed through a browser (as opposed to a digital download) ... This means that the Google Edition is broken down into fragments and temporarily stored in – and accessed through – the browser window. The Google Editions web experience, therefore, is not that of a file download – it is an experience that is optimised for reading in the browser. This allows Google to detect and protect against abuse of each Google Edition."Ebooks are growing in popularity as the cost of readers has dropped: the latest Kindle costs less than £99.Oren Teicher, the chief executive of the American Booksellers Association, told the New York Times that he expected the vast majority of independent bookstores that already participate in the association's IndieCommerce program, an online retail platform, to sign up for Google Editions.The bookstores on that list are some of the best-known independents in the US, including Books &amp; Books, which has stores in south Florida and Grand Cayman; Vroman's Bookstore in Pasadena, California; and the Elliott Bay Book Co in Seattle."It's clear that a certain percentage of readers are going to want to read books electronically, and independent bookstores can curate that content in the same way we curate content for physical books," Teicher told the paper. "This is an opportunity to do so, and we're eagerly looking forward to it."Cathy Langer, the lead book buyer for the Tattered Cover bookstores in Denver, said she had been waiting for the introduction of Google Editions with "great anticipation", explaining: "I always say that indies need to be players in all parts of the game, so this is going to be great to bring us into the ebook game in a reasonable, affordable way," she said. "We would like to make a little money off of it. But we have got to stop the bleeding."
