The concept behind lightgun games has been around ever since carnivals combined children, firearms and ducks with the chance to win a furry toy. The premise was a simple one – point and pull the trigger. For a time, in faux shooting terms, that was cutting edge. Although long-since trumped technologically by the wealth of shooting stuff in video games, so-called "gallery shooters" do still endure, Pheasants Forever being the latest example.As the title suggests, the subject of this fairly rudimentary title is bird hunting and, in keeping with its heritage, it offers fixed-point shooting down a fairly narrow field of play, just as if you were squinting down a tin-can alley.Here the replica gun is replaced with the Wii's pointer, which brings down hapless foul with a squeeze of the trigger. There's a range of weapons, and a field guide's worth of feathered creatures are yours to target. There's even a selection of hunting dogs to master – a feature that unintentionally offers moments of surrealism – and a superficially diverse set of game modes. However, despite striving to provide a variety of experiences, Pheasants Forever exhibits little in the way of flair. It is certainly fun, but basic and rarely impressive.
The power both to see the future and to change it is the seductive concept at the heart of this Japanese role-playing game, translated by Nintendo for European markets but not American – much to the consternation of the latter. Their ire is understandable, as in the twilight hours of the Wii's life this is a game of rare quality and depth, a title that revitalises a genre whose resistance to change was seeing it slowly slide towards irrelevance in the eyes of western gamers.Orphan Shulk is the young hero who gains the power of foresight via an ancient sword known as the Monado. His peaceful, pastoral life is disrupted by the unexpected reappearance of the Mechon, an army of sentient robots. With his home village all but destroyed and many dead, Shulk sets off with boisterous best mate Reyn to destroy their leader, a metallic monstrosity apparently resistant to the Monado's blade.His journey takes him through a vast world built upon the frozen bodies of two enormous titans, perpetually locked in conflict. This dramatic backdrop offers sights of a beauty and scale rarely seen on the Wii; from sprawling plains to labyrinthine caves, these mesmerising environments teem with natural life. The roaming fauna are mostly harmless, though some will attack on sight, with others responding to sound. Targeting any creature reveals their current "level" so players can decide whether or not their team is equipped to deal with them.When the time comes to fight, the battle system is both fast-paced and tactical. Characters will attack automatically within range of an enemy, but players can also choose from a range of special moves, each of which has to cool down before it can be used again. Computer-guided team-mates use their own abilities judiciously; Reyn's aggressive approach can draw attention from enemies to allow Shulk to deliver a forceful strike from behind, for example. The option to run away and regroup at any time is a welcome one, an example of the game's persistently thoughtful design.However, it's the Monado's power that really spices up combat and narrative. During skirmishes it can be used to predict the enemy's next move; as a plot device, it provides several instances of gripping emotional drama. Saving a dear friend from certain death – to the strains of a sumptuous soundtrack – has the power to induce goosebumps, just one of many moments in this splendid, expansive epic.
The synaesthesia genre has long beguiled academics and intellectuals, attempting to bolster their "games are art" arguments. Despite this, games that attempt to blur the boundaries between the player's sense of hearing and vision have found at best modest commercial success.Groove Coaster(App Store, Taito, £1.99) could be the release to change all that. It may be an archetypal example of the synaesthesia game – all streaks of neon and delicate techno – but it is one of the finest.Both accessible and abstract, all it asks is that you tap your finger to the music it plays. Your guide to when to paw at your iPhone/iPad is a single line that flows through 3D space, twisting and turning to the rhythm, playing tricks on your mind all the way. Markers on the line dictate when to tap, and the result is a hugely compelling experience that is intense and hypnotic, drawing you deep into the minutiae of each piece of music through visual representation.Hungribles(App Store, Futuremark, £1.49) also represents a gaming archetype, albeit a far more mainstream one. A cheerful 2D title that charges you with catapulting projectiles at targets, it's reminiscent of that giant of the platform, Angry Birds. However, Hungribles has more than enough of its own ideas to distinguish it from its giant rival – with smart use of gravitational physics involving different orbiting bodies. It may lack the finesse of Groove Coaster, and all the hip posturing, but it's a good quality addition to any iPhone or iPad.
Do you remember the Smurfs? Those little blue creatures that festooned comics and televisions way back in the 80s? Well, nowthey're staging a comeback on our cinema screens, hence the need for the ubiquitous licensed tie-in –The Smurfs Dance Party. Ubisoft has takenthe mega-successful Just Dance formulaand reskinned it – blue-skinned, if you will – with familiar characters, like Papa Smurf, Smurfette, Clumsy Smurf and Gargamel. Now you can do a choreographed bop in your living room to a mixture of popular songs like "Walk This Way" and "One of the Boys", and then throw in such classics as "Who Let the Smurfs Out?", "Mr Smurftastic" and, my personal favourite, "We Like to Smurf It".To this jaded reviewer, playing the game was like drinking a bottle of vodka whilst spinning in a tumble dryer. Total Smurfing bedlam, in other words. But kids from the ages of three and up are going to absolutely love it, and that's the only thing that counts here. They can start a Blue Man Group of their very own, and all you have to do is shut the door, insert some earplugs, and go back to doing the crossword.
From Dust, Xbox 360While most God games have you managing statistics in what can feel dishearteningly like a brightly coloured set of Excel spreadsheets, From Dust has an altogether more tactile set of priorities and would rather you spend your time moulding the land to see what happens than brooding over crop yields. To that end, levels form miniature playgrounds in which to experiment with the tools at your disposal: sand, lava and water. Each behaves more or less as you'd expect, with high enough sand or lava walls diverting water until it gets deep enough to overflow. These materials are augmented by special powers accessed by massing followers around totem poles, while you can build up a revealing encyclopaedia of your surroundings by unlocking tribal memories, triggered by spreading palm trees across its arid and rocky archipelagos. Its gentle pace and encouragement to play with the toys it gives you make for a particularly pleasant play experience in this quiet gem of a game.Ubisoft, 1200 Microsoft points (approx £10.28)Magnetic Billiards: Blueprint, iPad, iPhone &amp; iPodMagnetic BilliardsThe object of Magnetic Billiards is to clear tables full of coloured pucks by knocking them so that they hit and stick to matching colours. Bouncing off the sides of the table and passing close to other colours ratchet up your score multiplier, while creating geometric shapes with your increasingly complex puck clusters adds to your combo, giving rise to some truly absurd scores once you've got the hang of it. Its magic though comes from Nintendo-esque levels of refinement, with each table a honed masterpiece of risk and opportunity that asks you to meter every shot with fanatical precision, revelling in the absence of time limits. Its atmosphere is as finely crafted as its mechanics, with frequent interjections from developers the Pickford brothers along with the most charmingly named and thoroughly English assortment of unlockable achievements ever to grace a videogame. The fact that it looks like a beautifully animated hand-drawn blueprint is entirely appropriate to what is clearly a labour of considerable love. And it's free.Zee 3 Digital Publishing, free, extra table sets 69p-£2.49Games newsAllied Star PoliceOwain Weinertis a terminally ill 10-year-old boy, introduced by the Make-A-Wish Foundation to PopCap, the irrepressibly quirky developer recently very expensively purchased by Electronic Arts. He'd designed a videogame and, thanks to PopCap,Allied Star Policehas been produced, and is now available free of charge at the App Store. Just download it. I think I've got something in my eye …Eurogamer Expohas announced that it will be held at Earls Court this year, thereby sparing videogame lovers the desolate annual odyssey to London's Docklands. The show looks set to feature playable versions of everything fromAssassin's Creed: RevelationstoUncharted 3: Drake's Deception…Meanwhile in the US, excitable radio commentatorGlenn Beckhas compared mobile gaming classicAngry Birdswith both Nazi Germany and a socialist state in a political simile that will have even regular players of the game confused.
I glide silently and – it has to be&nbsp;said – ever so slightly smugly through London in my Nissan Leaf electric car. Oops, I've strayed into the congestion charge zone, have I remembered to pay? Ha, it doesn't matter, I&nbsp;don't have to. Tax disc? Exempt! I&nbsp;press a button on the dash, a&nbsp;message is displayed: I have saved a total of… 691,229 trees! Single-handedly, just this morning. No wonder I'm feeling pleased with myself. I'm practically God.I'm also comfortable, safe and not at all embarrassed. The Leaf, unlike some electric vehicles (EVs), is a&nbsp;proper car, with everything you'd expect from a proper car. It even looks quite stylish. I'm cool, I'm green, I'm the future. The Nissan Leaf is absolutely brilliant. Apart from a couple of little things. Like the fact that, for me, it would be little better than useless.I, like most urbanites (surely the only people to consider an EV, given their limited range), live in a terrace. No off-street parking, in other words. What are we supposed to do, run a lead out of the letter box and across the pavement, tripping up the pedestrians as they pass and&nbsp;being sabotaged by every kid in the neighbourhood?The alternative is to charge it somewhere else. My screen tells me that the nearest place is 10 miles away at a shopping centre in Watford. But I don't want to go shopping in Watford for four hours while the car charges up. I don't want to go anywhere for four hours.The infrastructure is getting better, there will be more charging points. But an electric car makes sense only if you can charge it at one of the places you spend a lot of time – ie, home or work. For those of us who can't do either, or who don't want to (or shouldn't) drive to work, it makes little sense.And £26,000 (even with the government incentive) is a lot to spend on a car that isn't nearly as useful as a car that costs a third of the price. Some people will be able to make the figures work – a lot more of us will have to wait until EVs get better. Not just the infrastructure but the technology, too. I don't really use a car in London, to be honest. I&nbsp;cycle and use public transport. I&nbsp;need one only to go out of town; and a Leaf's 110-mile (tops) range limits my choice of destination.My test car came from the Nissan depot in Oxfordshire. It would probably have made it under its own steam (so to speak), but that would have left very little in the tank (so&nbsp;to speak) for me which, given my charging issues, would have been problematic. So it arrived on a&nbsp;trailer, towed by a huge gas-guzzling four-wheel drive pick-up truck. There's an irony there somewhere, isn't there?Nissan LeafPrice£25,990Top speed90mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.9 secondsRange110 milesCO2 emissions0Eco rating9/10In two wordsNot yet
Red Faction: Armageddon...Xbox360/PS3; £49.99;cert 15+; THQThe previous games in the Red Faction series had two main selling points: the satisfyingly destructible nature of the landscape, and a "socialist uprising against an evil corporate society" narrative that, had it sold better, could have made neo-McCarthyites fear an army of teen boys raging up against the machine. Armageddon keeps the former and gets rid of the latter – and ditches the sandbox experience for a more linear, generic third-person shooter with lots of bad guy aliens to slaughter without much thought for political allegiance or allegory. There are still pluses: the Martian future-world you smash can now also be reconstructed via a special nanobot-unleashing magic glove, and some of the weaponry – such as the harpoon-like magnet gun – is innovative and entertaining, if you're the kind of person who gets cheap thrills from pulling metal gangways down on top of unsuspecting baddies. Which I'm sure you are. Overall, however, the drab underground caverns one navigates and the repetitive nature of the action drag this shooter back into the pack.James WalshEarth Defense Force: Insect Armageddon...PS3/Xbox 360; £29.99; cert 12+; NamcoEDF is a classic arcade style shooter with thousands of big insects, huge ants and massive robots invading Earth. You take control of a marine called Lightning Alpha, whose mission is to negotiate with insects using an arsenal of large weapons. That's pretty much the storyline. In EDF:IA there are four different character classes to choose from, each with their own special abilities. Battle class is pretty much a tank, and has the biggest and most powerful weapons. Tactical class has mines, turrets and radar, but lacks good weapons. Trooper class is all-round solider and has the most variety in weapons. The Jet class is the one I used for most of the time; it has the ability to fly and is a lot quicker than the other classes for getting round the map, good for the rooftop and air-to-air attracts. One problem is that it takes up energy and a lot of time to reload, so sometimes you get caught short. I've never played any of the other EDF titles before so I was quite exited about playing this. A friend of mine was talking and said it was a good laugh. He was right, it was a good laugh but not for that long. Initially I was really impressed with the design and the sheer scale of the insects; it was quite satisfying taking down huge beasties, but once that stopped being impressive I soon found myself quite bored. Same missions scenarios, same bugs, same city environments and same annoying character voices. Split-screen co-op/online co-op didn't improve the longevity of it either, both of us got bored pretty quickly. Online survival mode with six players was interesting, infinite waves of enemies and your goal is to survive as long as possible. Good for a quick game when you have a bit of free time. EDF:IA is fun for a while but don't expect it to hold your interest for more than a few hours. If this was £40 game I wouldn't have paid for it, but for £20 it's worth a go with friends.Mark McCormickHarry Potter and The Deathly Hallows Part 2...PS3/Xbox 360/Wii/DS/PC; £49.99; 12+; Electronic ArtsIf you've read all seven Harry Potter books, seen all eight films, listened to all the talking books, bought the Gryffindor scarf, written some Slytherin-on-Hufflepuff slash fiction, and yet still can't get enough of the Potterverse, then this game ought keep you going for a few more hours. However, for those with less invested in the series there's not a whole lot to get excited about. It's a slightly clunky third-person shooter which manages to wring a few good elements from its source material, but ultimately it's a bit slight.  With a wand instead of a gun, and different spells performing the equivalent functions of, say, a machine gun or sniper rifle, the linear plot takes you through various locations where Voldemort's Death Eaters are waiting to battle with Harry and his allies. At various stages in the game you play one of eight predetermined characters, including Harry (obviously), Ron, Hermione, Neville, and Professor McGonagall. While the levels all look very nice, playability-wise the design is fairly mediocre, and often annoying. The plot feels terribly rushed, with awkward cut-scenes and hammy in-game dialogue giving the bare bones of what's going on, and the gameplay is very repetitive – fight a samey bunch of adversaries (mostly interchangable Death Eaters), then a boss battle, then do the same again in another location. On the plus side the combat itself works well, the various spells are fun to use, and the story, though too-economically told, ought to keep you playing til then end.Adam Boult
There are thousands of new apps being released every day at the moment, although when you filter them down to the ones that are genuinely interesting, it's more like dozens. Here is this week's crop of reviews.Let's Golf 3iPhone, iPad, freeGameloft's two previous Let's Golf games have been playable and polished, albeit clearly inspired by Sony's Everybody's Golf PlayStation franchise. For the third in the series, the publisher has adopted a new pricing model: freemium. The game is free to download and play, but when you run out of energy points, you have to wait for them to recharge to play another hole, or buy some more using in-app payments. It has been used for other games, but it doesn't work well for golf – where you want to play a number of holes one after the other. It's a shame, because the game is very good. It would certainly be better suited as a one-price paid download, though.MobageAndroid, freeMobage is a hugely popular social mobile gaming community in Japan, but the company behind it – DeNA – is taking it worldwide this year. Android owners are first to try the global version of the service in beta. The nearest comparison are existing communities like Apple's Game Center and the independent OpenFeint: you create a profile, and then Mobage tracks your scores and friends across a range of other Android games including Pocket Frogs, We Rule and Paper Toss. If they sound familiar, it's because they've been ported from iPhone. Mobage is interesting, but it feels like a beta with the odd crash and slow loading times. It has potential though.Bjork: BiophiliaiPhone / iPad, freeThere has been a gallon of hype around Bjork's new album-app for iOS, but does it live up to the expectations? So far, yes. The app, which is best experienced on an iPad, will eventually offer 10 mini-apps, one for each song on Bjork's new album Biophilia. At the time of writing two are available: Crystalline and Virus, which both make interactivity with the music their selling point. And yes, both are sold: £1.49 each via in-app payment. Crystalline is a tunnel-racing game with a hint of Katamari Damacy in the way you pick up crystals from the walls, while Virus is more of a musical plaything, built around the life cycle of a virus. They're very different, which bodes well for the eight tracks yet to be launched. If Bjork isn't your thing musically, you're unlikely to be attracted, but for fans and casual observers, Biophilia is an innovative and important app. But crucially, also a fun one.NASA AppAndroid, freeNASA's new Android app joins existing versions for iOS, and is a real treat for space buffs and novice stargazers alike. It draws on the space agency's comprehensive archives, including videos and images. It also pulls in various NASA Twitter feeds (while also letting you tweet from within the app), and offers information on current missions and launches, as well as live streaming of the NASA TV channel. It's an app you can genuinely lose yourself in, such is the depth of content.Crayola ColorStudio HDiPad, freeYou may know Crayola for the crayons that your toddler uses for their artistic masterpieces (on paper or white walls, depending how well trained they are). Now the company is getting into apps with the release of this free iPad app and a companion stylus peripheral from Griffin Technology that costs £24.99 and is shaped like a large crayon. The idea: children use the stylus to draw on-screen in the ColorStudio HD app, although it can also be used in finger-swiping mode. The app has clearly been put together with plenty of thought, with animated pictures, a choice of virtual pens, crayons, pens and paintbrushes, and the ability to create your own pictures from a library of items, and then share or print the finished results. It's a shame that the app stops kids from going over the edges of lines – isn't that what they're supposed to learn themselves? I also wonder why Crayola and Griffin felt they needed the peripheral, rather than going with the direct finger/screen interface that makes tablets such exciting devices for children. Even so, this app will bring a lot of pleasure to kids and their parents.CFG: Cosmo for GuysiPad, free"Chances are you sometimes take a peek at Cosmo in an attempt to figure out what women really want," begins the App Store description for this new spin-off app from Cosmopolitan magazine. Which feels a bit like a view from another age, given that in 2011 there is no shortage of tips on "what a woman craves sexually and emotionally" across the range of magazines and websites for men. Against that backdrop, you might argue that there isn't a pressing demand for a man-focused Cosmo offshoot. Even so, the CFG app is slick and interesting, which makes good use of connectivity in the way it pulls in data and maps to illustrate its lifestyle features. There is lots of interactivity too – much of it coming in mini-surveys to answer. The promised "eye-popping 3-D sex positions" are a little limp, though: virtual crash test dummies that you can rotate, rather than Avatar-style out-of-the-screen raunch.
A burst of 10 apps for your considerationBarclays FootballAs the sponsor of the English Premier League, Barclays has launched an official app to mark the start of the season. It will offer live text on match days, stats, fixture lists and tables, and a Ticket Office contest to win match tickets. Social features include Facebook chat within the app itself, and there are even augmented reality views of every stadium. It only popped up this morning, so here are direct links foriPhoneandAndroid.iPhone / AndroidTelegraph Clearing 2011With the annual university clearing process set to get underway in the UK, the Telegraph – UCAS' official media partner for the process – has launched an iPhone and Android app to help students find vacancies on courses. The app will be updated every hour to ensure its data is never out of date. Again, here are direct links toiPhoneandAndroidas this has just gone live.iPhone / AndroidAnomaly Warzone EarthThere are hundreds of tower defence games on iPhone and iPad, and many of them are rubbish. Even the good ones often fall into a similar template. Anomaly Warzone Earth has the clever idea of turning the tables: users play as the attackers, not the defenders. It's developed by 11 Bit Studios and published by Chillingo.iPhone / iPadV Festival 2011This year's V Festival in the UK takes place in mid-August, and predictably there's an app for that. A few, in fact: it's launching on iPhone, Symbian, BlackBerry and Android. Users can enter competitions, find their way around the festival site, and locate their Facebook friends while at the event. It's the work of Ashley Bolser Agency.iPhone / Android / BlackBerry / NokiaiKAGEnoNEJapanese iPhone app iKAGEnoNE is more artwork than commercial project: it gets users to point their iPhone cameras at the real world, then turns the input into music.iPhoneSightSpace 3DLimitless Computing's SightSpace 3D is an iPad app designed for people working with the Google SketchUp 3D modelling tool. The app uses augmented reality to display SketchUp models in the real world, and aims to be a visualisation tool for architects, manufacturers and designers.iPadTokTok EnglishTokTok English is one of the most characterful English-learning apps we've seen for iPad, with colourful animal characters and a range of flash cards, songs and images to help 2-9 year-olds learn the language.iPadNyxQuestNyxQuest is a beautiful-looking platform game for iOS published by Chillingo and developed by Over the Top Games, with an Ancient Greek theme.iPhone / iPadSpeakeasy CocktailsFancy a tipple? Speakeasy Cocktails is an iPad book-app that aims to turn users into cocktail kings and queens, with video tutorials, 200 recipes and bartender tips.iPadBumbles JumbleEduGame UK's latest iPad app offers eight picture puzzles for 2-4 year-olds, aiming to boost hand-eye coordination, logical thought processes and spatial awareness.iPadYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe patent system isn't broken -- we are &gt;&gt; This is my next...Nilay Patel: "There is a fundamental problem with patents in the United States."It is us."By that I mean all of us: the companies and people who directly interact with the patent system, the media that reports on those interactions, the analysts and experts who inform the media, and finally the large, active, and vocal readership that we try and service with our reporting. As a group, we have accepted and let lie the lazy conventional wisdom that the patent system is broken beyond repair, a relic of a previous time that has been obsoleted by the rapid pace of technical innovation, particularly in software, and that it should perhaps be scrapped altogether."Apple Reveals Big Plans to Integrate Projectors into iOS Devices + &gt;&gt; Patently AppleApple has "plans of integrating mini or pico-like projectors into future iOS devices while introducing a likely projector accessory for MacBooks"'Angry Birds' Maker Seeks Funds at $1.2B Valuation &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"Rovio Entertainment Oy, the Finnish creator of the "Angry Birds" mobile-phone game, is in talks to receive funding that would value the company at about $1.2 billion, two people with knowledge of the discussions said."Response to Mark Zuckerberg &gt;&gt; Chill BlogZuckerberg calls a Chill feature "lame". Here's Chill's response: "So what are we going to do? We've already removed this feature." Lame.Take that, Facebook: Google+ commission on game transactions is 5 percent, not 30 percent &gt;&gt; VentureBeatHow Google+ hopes to beat Facebook: undercutting it. "For the launch of its Google+ social games platform, Google has found one way to differentiate itself from Facebook. For in-game transactions, Google is only going to be charging a 5 percent commission to game developers instead of the 30 percent that Facebook charges."Games in Google+: fun that fits your schedule &gt;&gt; Official Google Blog"Today we're adding games to Google+. With the Google+ project, we want to bring the nuance and richness of real-life sharing to the web. But sharing is about more than just conversations. The experiences we have together are just as important to our relationships. We want to make playing games online just as fun, and just as meaningful, as playing in real life."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Friday, August 12 – on this day exactly 30 years ago, IBM launched its original Personal Computer!
We all know that the British summer is a mass of wannabe music festivals, but frankly after you've seen Coldplay performing in one field filled with middle-class teenagers and right-on families, you've seen 'em all. But the video game festival is still a burgeoning concept, with each new event on the calendar bringing a fresh take on the concept.Here's a selection of upcoming game fests, all worth a visit if you're at all interested in playing games, or even making them...Edinburgh Interactive FestivalThe Radisson Blu Hotel, Edinburgh, August 11-12Okay, you've missed the first day, but if you can, get down to Edinburgh on Friday for the final day of this well-established and interesting event. There's a busy programme of public sessions, looking at games in education, getting in to the industry and other pertinent topics. Friday kicks of with an education session featuring Square Enix president Ian Livingstone and Channel 4 Education commissioner, Jo Twist. Later in the afternoon, Disney will be showing off its massively-multiplayer action game Disney Universe, while Nintendo is previewing Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword.Dare ProtoPlayCaird Hall, Dundee, August 12-14Another hugely promising festival happening north of the border, this time organised by theUniversity of Abertaywhich runs some of the best video game degree courses in the UK. The event is launching with a keynote from legendary designer David 'Elite' Braben, currently working on forthcoming Kinect title, Disneyland Adventures. You'll also be able to okay all the finalist games in this year's Dare to be Digital design competition, as well as new titles from Cobra Mobile, Crytek and Tag Games. There will be game design talks, a BAFTA career workshop, game jams and a pro-gaming tournament. Basically, if you're at all interested in entering the games industry and can get to Dundee this weekend, get to Dundee this weekend.GAMEfestBirmingham NEC, September 16-18The well-known games retailer is hosting its inaugural consumer video game show in Birmingham this year and has attracted heavyweight industry support. Headline sponsor Sony will be showing off Uncharted 3 and Resistance 3, while Sega, THQ, Disney, Nintendo, EA and Bethesda will all be providing demos of their Christmas wares. Perhaps the big news, though, is that Activision is bringing military shooter sequel Modern Warfare 3 along – it'll be the first time UK consumers get to play the game. The event is exclusive to reward card holders, though, so you may need to pop into your local store before applying for tickets. It's £10 for over-12s and a fiver for children.Eurogamer ExpoEarl's Court, London, September 22-25The excellent video game site Eurogamer has been running its consumer games show as part of the wider London Games Festival for a couple of years now, and although the festival itself is having 2011 off, the expo certainly isn't. Aimed squarely at the public this is a chance to play some of the biggest titles of the winter including Battlefield 3, PES 12, Dark Souls, Rage and Saint's Row The Third. The event will also host the UK premiere of the OnLive games service, and apparently they'll be giving away thousands of OnLive consoles on the showfloor. There's also an indie games arcade, a retro corner and gaming tournaments. Keep an eye onthe official Twitter feedfor regular updates.Shepton Digi FestHaskins Retail Centre, Shepton Mallet, October 6-8The first of two extremely interesting West Country festivals. DigiFest is billed as a celebration of digital art and media produced in Somerset, Bristol, Bath and the wider South West, and centres mostly on photography, film and performance. However, the event will feature a roundtable discussion on the UK games industry, hosted by Sean Dromgoole of industry research company,GameVision. There's anofficial Twitter feedwith updated info.GameCityVarious venues, Nottingham, October 26-29Ah, GameCity. If I had it my way, it would be compulsory for all British gamers to attend this lovely, imaginatively programmed event. And not just because I'll once again be running a daily discussion show there (the organiserslove itwhen I plug my own trifling involvement above their headline signings). As well as me, you'll be able to catch legendary games designer Eric Chahi, Naughty Dog chief Richard Lemarchand, offbeat studio thatgamecompany and industry father-figure Ian Livingstone. There are discussions, keynotes, workshops, evening events and interesting things to see and do in a big tent on the market square. What more could you ask for?RuneFestOld Billingsgate, London, October 29-30This community event for the hugely popular massively-multiplayer online game is a lively get-together of like-minded runiacs, mixing parties, quizzes, gaming and sword-fighting classes with chances to meet the developers and find out about future Jagex projects. Prices start from £59 for a day and go up to £179 for a VIP weekend pass. This year the event is celebrating the tenth anniversary of the game, so should be even more fanatical. And don't forget to come in costume for the Halloween party.Extended PlayNational Marine Aquarium, Plymouth, November 3-5Billed as the South West's first and only digital festival, Extended Play is a two-day event, concentrating on the theme of 'games as a service' – in other words, the idea of MMORPGs, downloadable content, persistent online games and so on. Details are scarce at the moment (they're sending out press info next week), but the event will include industry speakers and sessions as well as a game jam, and it's aimed at start-up studios, students and the public. There is a possibility I'll bespeaking at the event on games journalism, but don't let that put you off. I'll provide more details as they come in, but this is a great chance for budding game designers in the West Country to meet insiders and like-minded talent.Bradford Animation FestivalNational Media Museum, Bradford, November 8-12Another long-running favourite and a great event for students of game design. The first two days of the festival feature a dedicated BAF Game strand, which offers talks, discussions, screenings and workshops as well as hands-on gaming sessions. It's also worth staying on for the animation programme too, which features inspirational work from around the world. We recorded an edition of the Tech Weekly podcast on stage here last year, and we'll be back in some capacity this year – if they'll have us. Follow the museum'sofficial Twitter feedfor info on the evolving schedule.
Twenty pitches is a lot to sit through, but it's a great way of taking the pulse of some of the most promising ideas trends and talent in the startup community. As ever, a good pitch doesn't mean a good product, and vice versa. There were presentations today that were slick and funny but failed to succinctly explain the product, while otherwise were softly spoken and modest but quietly impressive at the same time. These three sites, plus 17 others, are buried in intensive mentoring sessions all afternoon.Some, like Croatian Farmeron, were both. The team, most of whom have grown up with families involved in agriculture, have achieved the increasingly hard task of identifying an as-year undisrupted market with massive potential for what I hesitate to call a Web 2.0 interface - light, easy to use and consumer focused service. Farmeron provides an adaptable data management tool for farmers with a delightful, fun interface a world away form dull, agro-industry rivals - of which there are only two. Very impressive.Anything that tries to solve the burden of email is worth watching, and ReplyDone is trying to help by learning how you respond to common emails and intervene to automate those replies. Simple, and brilliant. It's starting life as a Gmail plug in but there's potential here, at least until email is usurped by something that was actually designed to handle our communications, rather than something that just ended up doing it.Italian site iubenda is a customisable, embeddable tool for the small print on your website. Great idea, bypassing costly lawyers. For most smaller websites, that will be a real benefit.Photo byc3oon Flickr.Some rights reservedMini Seedcamp, London•CityMapper(London, UK)Travel tool.CityMappercombines buses, tubes, bikes, taxis and walking to suggest the best routes through the city. How is it different to otters apps on this space? By focusing on design and usability, claims co-founder Azmat Yusuf, a VC turned entrepreneur. With partner Mattias Linnap, who is studying at Cambridge for a PhD in location tracking, CityMapper claims to have a better routing algorithm than the competition, creating use cases around navigation. There's potential for building an ad network around movement in cities, using navigation is a platform. Expanding in the US would be boring; CityMapper wants to pursue growing markets in megacities like Istanbul and Jakarta.•ComodIT(Liege, Belgium)IT management tool.ComodITco-founder Laurent Eschenauer believes IT should be comoditised, greatly simplifying management of corporate IT systems through a web user interface. "The idea is to formalise, integrate and orchestrate your company's IT system," said Eschenauer, who says ComodIT has started direct sales and is targeting mid-sized firms. A software-as-a-service version is due out next year and ComodIT is hoping to stake out a chunk of the $14bn IT management market.•ContactUsPlus(London, UK)Customer service tool. Ever contacted an e-commerce website but had no response?ContactUsPlusestimates that 27% of consumers have had that experience and 45% have abandoned their shopping carts. In the context of a market that has lost £12.8bn in sales, there's a big opportunity to help firms provide the customer support to complete those sales. ContactUsPlus provides a toolbar that can be added to the top of site, explained co-founder Adi Ben-Ari, inviting consumers to email, live chat or speak to a customer service rep. Response rates are shown to the customer, along with average response time. "We think this adds a new dynamic, a game dynamic, to sites to make them more responsive," said Ben-Ari.•Crowd(Paris, France)Photo-sharing service. "Crowdis the closest thing to ubiquity until we sort out teleportation," begins Gabriel Hubert, with no shortage of gusto. Crowd lets users experience and share locations through real-time, geo-tagged photo sharing. There's potential for geo-targeted ads, and to bring in online newspapers who could offer a live feed from professional photographers at news events. Crowd currently has 80 beta testers. Strapline: The World. Live. Now.•CubeSocial(Basingstoke, UK)Professional relationship management for social networks.CubeSocial's pitch is about new ways for professionals to win new businesses, and they think the way to do that is through social media. CubeSocial filters the most relevant content from networks, filters out the noise, "join the right conversations" and form the right relationships. Financial services, lawyers, accountants, consultants - these professionals are the target group. There's a focus on Twitter and LinkedIn and co-founder Linda Cheung (former Morgan Stanley executive director) and Mark Bower (former lead program manager at Microsoft) think there's far more potential in social networks than pushing daily deals to Facebook fans.•EarningsCast(London, UK)Shareable, interactive media tool for earnings calls. Earnings calls are the most valuable interaction between investors and a business, but calls are not very accessible, recordable or personalisable.EarningsCast's attempt to solve this is a management system that lets investors organise a portfolio of earnings calls with private chartroom, integrated live commentary from social networks, and shareable and embeddable files. Co-founder Madhusudana Ramakrishna said the plan is to make money by running advertising around these calls with a freemium model, and the private beta has engaged 3,000 companies so far. Public beta starts next month.•EnergyBob(Munich, Germany)Smart heating meter. This is a smart domestic energy control system, adjusting your heating through TheEnergyBobserver which talks to Google's Latitude's API to determine when you're on your way home, and when the heating needs to come on. The price is €99 installation and then €9 per month. There are rivals, but a rich potential market of 300m European homes and partnerships with European telcos and utility firms.•Farmeron(Osijek, Croatia)Agricultural data management tool. The Croatian team behindFarmeronwant to help farmers struggling with boring data management, putting a useable, simple interface on a business management tool. The team come from families with agricultural backgrounds but are trained programmers and have already raised €12,000 funding. In an industry where there are only two major competitors there's the opportunity to exploit a huge market worth $3.34bn a year in agriculture and food advertising alone. Farmeron will offer animal and grain management (down to a field that lets users assign names to each animal. Nice) and production planning and performance. The tea is planning to launch the site latter this month.•Fractal(London, UK)Email design tool.Fractalwants to make it easier to build and distribute email newsletters that work across multiple email clients. Co-founder Abs Farah said it's a massive problem that isn't addressed by current solutions, and is providing the service to marketing clients who can package Fractal as one benefit to their clients, as well as direct to designers. Fractal's beta version launched eight weeks ago and version two is due out in two weeks. Farah quoted LinkedIn Reid Hoffman: "If you're embarrassed by your first version, you've launched too late." "And we're terribly embarrassed," said Farah. Fractal has finally settled for a cost of a $300 base fee, plus $100 per 1,000 API requests and a subscription model for regular users.•Gnergy(Sofia, Bulgaria)Energy efficiency service. "Our vision is to enable people to make better energy efficiency decisions," saidGnergyco-founder Martin Gogov. Current solutions demand expensive smart meters or geeky engineering apps. Gnergy, however, asks questions to build a profile of your home and suggests steps for energy efficiency. There's a gameification element where customers are motivated to create the most efficient home possible. Gnergy is freemium: free for consumers, and paid for industry professionals.•iubenda(Bologna, Italy)Small print for websites. Any website in the world has a legal obligation to respect privacy, but most companies have the choice of either paying an expensive lawyer or copying and pasting privacy terms from another site that might not be relevant.iubendaoffers a customisable, easy to embed tool to frame legal T&amp;Cs for websites, and charges a small subscription fee. "We make lots of money!" co-founder Andrea Giannangelo gleefully exclaims. Six weeks since launch iubenda has already delivered to thousands of sites. And the goal: Conquer the footer of every website in the world.•Myows(Singapore)Copyright management. Both founders Max Guedy and Chris Human have experienced their deisgn work and photography being reappropriated, but found it expensive and time-consuming to resolve infringement the traditional way.Myows- my original works - lets users store their copyrighted material (photos, artwork, music, videos) in one place, prove ownership of those, organise contracts that prove ownerships, manage rights and pursue infringements. In beta test until now, Myows is already storing 18,000 registered works and has solved 72 infringement cases.•OpenSignalMaps(London, UK)Real-world maps of mobile signal coverage. Coverage is unpredictable yet vital for mobile users, but coverage maps from operators are useless.OpenSignalMapsis crowd-sourcing coverage information instead - in real time, and for free, explains co-founder Sina Khanifar. OpenSignalMaps's Android app has had 800,000 downloads, and the site 40,000 site visitors per month so far. But the team of four Oxford physics graduates wants to do more with this data. For B2B, data could be sold back to the networks, who typically outsource this kind of data research. iPhone and Blackberry apps are coming soon.• ReplyDone(Vienna, Austria)Email efficiency tool. Ben Freundorfer thinks replying to emails is a waste of time, because humans are good at creating new content, and computers are good at finding old text. SoReplyDoneintelligently suggests your reply. Starting as a Gmail extension, ReplyDone will learn how you reply to common emails and suggest replies. The long-term vision is more ambitious, and doesn't represent current email systems at all but is an intelligent, auto-responding email client of the future. Amen to that.•RolePoint(London, UK)Employee referral platform that uses social networks. HR managers can encourage staff to refer candidates they know, including the 85% of workers who are 'passive candidates'- the ones who don't know they are secretly open to new job offers . Co-founder Chris Le Breton saidRolePointwill charge set fees to its target medium-large consultancies depending on organisation size. The target is initially the US. Talent, the strapline goes, knows talent.•Sntmnt(Amsterdam, Netherlands)Market information service. Dutch startupSntmnthelps pick stock to invest in by picking through market and online activity around companies and trends. Machine learning and predictive analysis tools are used to give a prediction of the "bullishness" of a particular market, accurate to 61% so far for the next 7 days. The Sntmnt team has been working on this for three months, but co-founder Vincent van Leeuwen says there's huge potential in a market where many of the rivals are academics who have tried unconvincingly to commercialise research tools.•StorkUp(Troon, UK)Shopping tool for parents. Shopping for baby products for first-time mums is expensive, time-consuming and expensive.StorkUplets new mums create shopping lists and recommendations for other new mums, with personalised responses, price comparison and then allows them to buy online. Beyond birth, StorkUp wants to create lists for birthdays, school and beyond. The market is huge, with 4 million babies born in the US every year alone and an average $9,000 spend in the first 12 months. Big parenting sites like Mumsnet and BabyCenter aren't product focused and price comparison sites aren't focused on specific communities.•TransferWise(London, UK)Money transfer service. Taavet Hinrikus was the first employee at Skype, but his latest project is a money transfer solution that avoids expensive currency exchange fees. He said he knows of a North American bank that makes $100m profits per year from currency exchange alone.TransferWiseis a P2P currency exchange; users say how much they want to send and to whom, transfer the money to a UK holding account, and TransferWise transfers the equivalent amount - based on market rates - to your friend for a flat fee of £1. Most clients are ex-pats, foreign students - and there's one guy who uses the service to send his alimony payments. This time next year, TransferWise wants to be enabling £300m in transfers and will be adding support for US dollars and Swiss francs.•Travelstormer(London, UK)Travel organisation tool. There's an ugly truth about organising travel for your friends - it's a big burden, and they are often ungrateful, say founders Colin Armstrong and George Coltart.Travelstormerwants to make the process much smoother, helping organise the research, discussion, purchase of tickets, itinerary building and departure for travel groups of more than three. It's a very Facebook-like interface with maps for locations of hotels, voting tools to help decide on options and booking incentives that show deals available for various options. A nice touch is that the organiser gets a small commission if the group decides on the option he or she suggested - gameifying the decision making process. There's a lot of noise in the travel sector but the biggest competitor is email where most research and decision takes place.•UntapTV(London, UK)Mobile ad tool for TV. Why isn't TV more engaging? When we don't like ads, we find something to do for a few minutes.UntapTVwants to make ads more engaging by giving users incentives to keep watching the TV ads and interact more using their mobile, whether by entreating a competition, playing a game or giving feedback. It's fast, scalable and brand-specific, says co-founder Tee Vachiramon. Brands can customise the ad experience by using the app, tap social networks  and build relationships with consumers. UptapTV has an iPhone app in alpha, is in discussion with various brands over trials and plans to make money through fixed fees or pay per interaction.• Read:Seedcamp's Saul Klein on four years of tapping startup trends
Saul Klein: Photo byJoion Flickr.Some rights reservedOften copied,Seedcampremains the original and best UK bootcamp for startups, now stretching across 10 events a year in 10 locations including Paris, Berlin, Tel Aviv, London, New York, Johannesburg, New York and Mumbai. Startups apply, and the best are hand-picked for an intensive bootcamp that involves pitching, revising their business, and picking the brains of some high-calibre mentors from the investment and entrepreneurial sectors.Today's event at UCL was a one-day Mini Seedcamp with 20 startups from across Europe. "The number one thing they want is business advice – they are hungry for it, and get it in very concentrated form," said Seedcamp co-founder Saul Klein. "The second is to build their network, and they also want the validation of saying 'Seedcamp invested in me' or 'so-and-so wrote about me'. Ironically the next thing they want is money. It's not the first thing, because they know that if they get the first three right, that will come."It has taken four years for Seedcamp to build a network of 2,000 mentors and a programme that is recognised by and in demand from startups. So is the government's Tech City strategy really a good use of money if it will either replicate or compete with existing, successful schemes like Seedcamp? "They recognise that startups are important for job creation, productivity improvement and growth. But if I were the government I would be investing in education – that's the biggest challenge." To grow a company from zero to 50 people is challenging but possible, Klein said. But it's growing companies beyond that, to hundreds of staff, that is virtually impossible in Europe."The talent pool just isn't deep enough," said Klein. "Kids should be going to university and coming out likeMatt Jones, as interface designers, or incredible online marketers likeAndrew Hunter, or brilliant product managers likeMike Bartlettat Skype. You needarmiesof those people to create great businesses." Our education system, then, just isn't vocationally focused enough despite the quality of our computer science graduates, and is perhaps too detached from the real experience and demands of running a business.Klein points to psychologist Abraham Maslow'shierarchy of needsto inform the direction of web businesses in the next 10 to 15 years, moving from fundamental, physical needs, through friendship and esteem to self-actualisation – though web services are actually moving from superficial, entertainment-focused services to more fundamental tools, like health, banking and travel.Who stands out from this bunch? It's the companies going after the very big markets, likeTransferWise, the currency exchange. "Every business feels the pain of the middle man, so if you can deliver a business on that space that solves a problem, there's potentially a very good business there."As for the investors or mentors, a common question is what they get from contributing valuable time and energy to Seedcamp? Klein likes to quote Paul Weller: What you give is what you get. It doesn't take much to recognise the strategic advantage in having access to the trends and talent coming out of cities across Europe.• Read:Seedcamp: Twenty top ideas from Europe's talented dev pool
My wife and I run a small agency. We are considering investing in a simple, lightweight netbook for use on business trips.  Is there something in the £220-£300 bracket that would do? We are looking for the usual things: Wi-Fi, USB ports etc.David PeateThis is a core market for netbooks, and if youpick a popular one with a pin, it will do what you say what you want. However, after a couple of boring years, netbook designs are finally showing enough changes to make some models worth a bit more attention. Indeed, some of the market may be moving away from the standard Intel Atom design to an AMD Fusion platform.The previous generation of netbooks used single-core Atom processors, but today, you should buy one with a dual core chip. This will give about 50% more performance and smoother operation without busting your budget. Most netbook suppliers now have models with the dual core 1.5GHz Atom N550, and this is a good choice. New versions are appearing with a 1.66GHz N570 chip, which is slightly faster, However, while you can measure the difference, it won't feel any faster in use, so it's not worth paying much extra to get one.This type of netbook used to cost between £299 and £349 but if you shop around, you can get them for less. Examples include the HP Mini 110 and 210, Samsung NF210 and NC110, and the MSI U160DX. I suggest you go for either the Asus Eee PC 1015PEM or the Acer Aspire One D255. The Asus 1015PEM is currently selling for£229.92 at Amazon.co.uk, compared with an SRP of £299.99. Amazon.co.uk lists the Acer Aspire One D255 for£293.99 in blackbut only £220.65 in purple. There are many other retailers, so shop around.These two netbooks have very similar specifications, with 10.1in screens, Intel 3150 graphics, 1GB of memory, 250GB hard drives, Wi-Fi b/g/n, USB ports etc. The main differences are that the Asus has a matte rather than a glossy screen, while the Acer is very slightly smaller and has a better webcam. It would be a good idea to get hands-on experience, to see if you find one more attractive than the other. Otherwise, the Asus lets you can upgrade the memory by unscrewing a panel on the bottom; with the Acer, you have to lift out the keyboard.This matters because PC manufacturers are only allowed to ship 1GB of memory if they choose to install the cheap 32-bit Starter version of the Microsoft Windows 7 operating system. Starter was created for and can only be purchased on a netbook. Since 1GB is the bare minimum – frankly, I wouldn't even run Windows XP in 1GB nowadays – netbooks are typically sold with cheap 2GB memory sticks. Replacing the 1GB stick with 2GB provides much better performance when running more than one or two programs.You can also upgrade a netbook's Windows 7 Starter to Windows 7 Home Premium in a few minutes. Unfortunately, Microsoft's price for this in-place Anytime Upgrade is£70or $80, which is roughly twice what I think it's worth.The main drawbacks with Windows 7 Starter (seecomparison table) are that it doesn't have the Aero Glass appearance (including Taskbar previews and Aero Peek); you can't have a picture as a background; and you don't get Windows Media Center for watching videos or playing DVDs. (Netbooks don't have a built-in DVD drives.) However, Windows 7 runs perfectly well without Aero Glass: indeed, it runs slightly faster. There are ways to get round the desktop background limitation – seeSeven Forumsfor a step-by-step guide – and there are several free alternative video players. You can, for example, download eitherVLCor theK-Lite codec pack including Media Player Classic.The problem is that if you feel you need to upgrade a netbook's memory and operating system, then you might be better off buying a mini-laptop with a bigger screen and a faster processor. I answered a question about this in November,Choosing a netbook or mini-notebook for travelling, and recommended the Celeron-based £299 Dell Inspiron 11z over the Asus Eee PC 1015PN and Acer Aspire One D255.The advantages of a mini-laptop over a netbook are the better screen resolution (1366 x 768 pixels instead of a letterbox-style 1024 x 600), plus 2GB of memory and Windows 7 Home Premium (ideally the 64-bit version) as standard.Several companies, including Sony, are introducing mini-laptops or "premium netbooks" using AMD's Fusion platform instead of Intel Atom chips. These don't appear to provide any more processing power, but they do offer better graphics. This makes them more suitable for watching movies and perhaps for playing low-end games. However, you may lose out on battery life, and they may run hotter. (The AMD E-350 is rated at 18 Watts where the Atom N550 is only 9 Watts.)Have a look at the Lenovo IdeaPad S205 (codeM632KUK) mini-laptop. This has an 11.1in screen, 1.6GHz AMD E-350 processor, 2GB of memory, 320GB hard drive and Windows 7 Home Premium for£299.99 at Amazon.co.uk, which is good value. There's also an earlier model (code M632JUK) with a 250GB hard drive for£279.99.In the US, the IdeaPad S205 has competition from machines such as the HP Pavilion dm1z and Lenovo ThinkPad X120e. However, the dm1z hasn't yet appeared in the UK, and it looks as though the X120e won't appear here at all. Whether Fusion will make a long term impact or get squeezed between faster Atom chips and the far superior Intel Core i3-UM (Sandy Bridge, Ivy Bridge) processors remains to be seen.
When The X Factor returns to ITV this autumn, it will come with a spin-off iPhone app enabling viewers to share their views on the show through a "Tap to Clap" feature.The app will be released through a partnership with Rimmel London, and its applauding feature will involve tapping the touchscreen to register appreciation of a contestant, judges' comments, guest stars and results, including posting it on Facebook and Twitter. The app will also provide news and video clips from the show.It's just the latest example of second-screen interaction around prime-time TV shows in the UK. Earlier this year, Britain's Got Talent got its own spin-off apps including similar features: users could virtually "buzz off" contestants alongside the judges on the show.The X Factor app will sit within the wider digital activity around the show produced by TalkBack Thames Digital, which this year will also include a search for "Superfans", who will be invited to interview contestants, judges, hosts and other fans, writing blog posts and posting videos as a result. The digital campaign also includes a revamped website, red-button competitions and the official X Factor Twitter and Facebook presences."This year's digital offering for The X Factor is all about giving fans new and exciting opportunities to interact with the show in real time -  including our first dedicated iPhone app and the launch of the 'Superfans' feature," says ITV's controller of multiplatform commissioning Richard Williams. "We've focused on commissioning and developing content that reflects the appetite we know is out there, for fans to join in with the live TV experience."It remains to be seen if the X Factor app will only be available on iPhone, leaving Android, BlackBerry and other smartphone users out in the cold – a strange decision for a show with such a mainstream audience, despite the additional costs of supporting these platforms.In 2010, the show's official partner was Nokia, which secured an exclusive deal for an X Factor app on its Ovi Store for Symbian smartphones.Exclusive deals for official apps are just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to social interaction around shows like The X Factor, however. Many viewers will be using Twitter and Facebook apps to talk about what they're watching on this year's show instead.
A burst of 20 apps for your considerationSpongeBob Frozen Face OffNickelodeon's new iPhone and iPad app is a book-app for SpongeBob SquarePants, with a snowy tale and the promise that it's "Narrated by the Real Voice of Plankton".iPhone / iPadJägermeister Ice Cold AppAlcohol brand Jägermeister has launched an iPhone and Android social location app. It aims to help people find nearby bars, events and gigs, where they can check in to earn points and win merchandise. Developed by Grapple Mobile, it's the latest example of a brand trying to make use of social location in its apps.iPhone / AndroidRecyclePixGreenopolis' RecyclePix app for iPhone, Android and iPad is a social app that aims to reward people for recycling. Users upload photos of themselves recycling to earn rewards points, which can then be exchanged for discounts and coupons on various services.iPhone / Android / iPadLet's Golf! 3Gameloft's Let's Golf series of iOS games reaches its third incarnation with a new business model: freemium. The game is free to download, but special skills and balls can be bought using virtual coins – both earned in-game, and paid for using in-app purchases. Online multiplayer is also included.iPhone / iPadFlick SoccerDeveloper Full Fat made the excellent Flick Golf series of games for iOS. Now it's turning its attention to football with iPhone title Flick Soccer. Will its multiple modes and glossy visuals be enough to take on Flick Kick Football though?iPhone4EyesSearch app 4Eyes is promising to be "like your iPhone on steroids", using text-based commands to search for things more quickly. For example, typing "wiki Empire State Building" takes you directly to its Wikipedia page, while typing "f Steve Jobs" brings up Flickr photos of Apple's CEO.iPhoneDefender of the CrownManomio – of Commodore 64 emulator fame – has now turned its attention to classic Amiga game Defender of the Crown, emulating it for iPhone and iPad. Knights, jousting, catapults and maiden-rescuing have all made the leap to iOS intact. That said, fans may wish the game had been remade for 2011 rather than simply emulated.iPhone / iPadTrees are Best FACTDesign studio Firecatcher and developer Hedgehog Lab have teamed up for this rather marvellous iPad book-app for children. It blends illustration and interactivity, with a focus on – you guessed it – trees.iPadFull Deck Hold'EmFull Deck Hold'Em is an online multiplayer poker game for iPad with a twist: it uses the iPad 2's front-facing camera for video chat alongside the action. Owners of the original iPad get voice chat instead, although they can see the video feeds of people playing with the second-gen device.iPadFace for BBMFace for BBM attracted our attention: it's seemingly one of the first BlackBerry apps to make use of the new BBM Social API. The hook here: it blends Facebook Chat and BBM Chat, with users able to see which of their Facebook friends have BBM, and invite them to be a BBM contact if they're not already.BlackBerryUsborne Sticker Dolly DressingUsborne Publishing is the latest company to launch a virtual sticker-book app for iPad. Dolls, outfits and lots of pink should make this a fun diversion for children who love dolls.iPadArthur &amp; Charles Present Create &amp; PlayLooking for a new creative app fix for your kids? Arthur and Charles are worth a look. Their app – the work of artist Moopf – is a mixture of card matching and cartoon faces.iPhone / iPadJulius Styles – The InternationalThis week's best iOS game featuring Wesley Snipes is out on the App Store, offering a 3D action-adventure. And yes, apparently the character of hitman Julius Styles was co-created by Snipes himself.iPhone / iPadXbox Live Sudoku / MinesweeperRemember the days when Minesweeper was the time-sucker of choice for Windows users? It could happen again on Windows Phone. Microsoft has launched Xbox Live-branded versions of Minesweeper and Sudoku for its smartphones, with power-ups and achievements.Windows PhoneJumvoJumvo is the latest entrant into the increasingly crowded group messaging space. However, its selling point is that the messages are voice rather than text.iPhoneRideshareCarpooling site Rideshare has launched iPhone and Android apps, helping people search for lifts or offer their own passenger seats up for fellow commuters.iPhone / Android123D SculptAutodesk's latest iPad app is a virtual sculpting app, which claims to be "the most fun you can have sculpting without getting your hands dirty". Be warned: you'll have to supply your own copy of Unchained Melody.iPadMacworld ExpressIDG's Macworld magazine has got its own iPad app, offering a mixture of news, reviews, app reviews, blogs and sections for iPhone, iPad and Mac.iPadLittle Piyo's FriendJapanese company Gakken has released its latest iOS book-app, based on a two million-selling series of picture books called Little Piyo. The English translation may be worth a look for parents keen to go beyond Western book-app brands.iPhone / iPadSideBets Social BETworkingSideBets appears to be a US-focused application, although you can get it in the UK App Store too. It's an interesting blend of betting and social networking, but using virtual rather than real money.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Serendipity, the enigmatic process that's been credited with producing everything frompenicillin to the chocolate chip cookie, is the almost-magical convergence of a (happy) accident and the sagacity of knowing what to do with it.The web has been described by some pundits as "the greatest serendipity engine in the history of culture", and commercial companies -like Google- are looking to harvest your enormous cloud of data to deliver serendipitous experiences before you even know what to search for.Butother punditshave decried the web'sfiltering mechanicsfor reducing serendipity, and potentially stifling innovation rather than creating it.So who's right? Is the web a serendipity machine or a tool for cultural homogenisation? Or is it, like so many things, not nearly so black and white?This fortnight, I tackle a pet topic: whatisthe web doing for (or against) serendipity. Follow the progress on theUntangling the Web blogfor all the links, interviews, photos, videos, articles and academic research on serendipity and the web that will feed this article.Send your thoughts toaleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.uk, comment below, or @ me on Twitter@aleksk. I look forward to being inspired.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAnonymous does not support killing Facebook on November 5 &gt;&gt; ZDNetSurely it's the (hardcore) few that are the influencers? Of course the group en masse doesn't agree - where would they go inbetween bouts of crippling state websites? - but that doesn't matter.Infographic Of The Day: Google's Hotel Finder Is D.O.A. &gt;&gt; Co. Design"Google's online Hotel Finder app reveals a stunning lack of vision at the search giant -- and a glaring weakness in its ideas about innovation."News Corp Says It Lost $254 Million On MySpace &gt;&gt; paidContent"News Corp lost $254 million on MySpace, the company said as it reported revenue that beat analysts' expectations."Apple is also suing Motorola in Europe over the Xoom tablet's design &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsIt goes on.FTC Focuses Google Probe on Android, Web Search &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"U.S. antitrust regulators are focusing their investigation of Google Inc. on key areas of its business, including its Android mobile-phone software and Web-search related services, people familiar with the probe say."Prosecutors file charges in prototype iPhone case &gt;&gt; CNET NewsThe background. What ever happened to the careless Apple engineer?Gizmodo Officially Not Being Charged in iPhone 4 Case &gt;&gt; Gizmodo"We are pleased that the District Attorney of San Mateo County, Steven Wagstaffe, has decided, upon review of all of the evidence, that no crime was committed by the Gizmodo team in relation to its reporting on the iPhone 4 prototype last year. While we have always believed that we were acting fully within the law, it has inevitably been stressful for the editor concerned, Jason Chen, and we are glad that we can finally put this matter behind us."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Thursday. Resident Evil creator Shinji Mikami is 46 today. Otanjoubi omedetou gozaimasu, Mikami-san!
Cloud-gaming pioneerOnLivehas announced that it will be introducing its instant-play games service in the UK on 22 September. Originally launched in the US last summer, the technology allows users to play well-known titles via a broadband connection without having to initially download the entire game. Instead, the code is stored on OnLive's servers and the action is streamed in real-time to the user's computer, TV or tablet device via the internet, like a YouTube video.OnLive has claimed that more than 100 "top tier" titles will be available from the launch date. It is yet to announce specific games, but has told the Guardian that it is in the process of licensing most of the catalogue currently available in the US. Many major publishers including Ubisoft, THQ and Square Enix have partnered with OnLive to make games such as Assassin's Creed, Homefront and Batman: Arkham Asylum available via the instant-play technology. However, the two biggest game publishers Electronic Arts and Activision have yet to announce any supporting titles.Users will be able subscribe for free at theofficial UK website. They can then choose to rent games for a limited periods, buy unlimited access to specific titles or pay a monthly fee to access the OnLive PlayPack Bundle, which gives unlimited access to a large chunk of the OnLive line-up. UK prices are yet to be announced, but in the US, most titles offer a three-day pass for $5.99, a five-day pass for $8.99 or a full price of $20-$60. The PlayPack bundle is $9.99 a month.Customers can play on various platforms including PC, Mac, and iPad and Android tablets. OnLive will also be distributing a set-top Game System and controller which allow owners to play via their HDTV. The price for the equipment, which will be available via the OnLive website, has yet to be announced, but in the US, a console and controller cost $99, with a component video adaptor adding another $30. A separate wireless controller can be bought for use with PCs, Macs and tablets – this is $50."OnLive will utterly transform gaming in the UK," said OnLive founder and CEO Steve Perlman. "No discs, big downloads or specialised hardware needed. OnLive gives you the latest games instantly, anytime, anywhere on HDTV, PC, Mac, as well as iPad, Android tablets. High-performance gaming as accessible as streaming video, with unique social features such as massive spectating with voice chat and Facebook integration."The instant-play system will support any broadband service provider in the UK, though thanks to a partnership deal revealed earlier this year, BT customers will have access to exclusive bundle deals, which will build OnLive access into broadband subscriptions. Regardless of provider, broadband speed will be a key factor in visual quality. In the US, OnLive has advised a minimum requirement of 2Mbps, which is comfortably below the country's average speed of 5.3Mbps. In the UK, the average is 6.8Mbps, although many areas get considerably slower access. A recent study by Pando Networksuncovered large regional variations.The big question marks are over the two bugbears of internet gaming: lag and latency. As the game is stored remotely on a server, every interaction between the player and the onscreen action has to be sent to and from the user's PC via their broadband connection. If there are delays in that data transaction, the action can slow to a crawl. Ina major reviewof the US version of the service last year, games site Eurogamer questioned claims by Perlman that he was seeing latency of around 35-40 milliseconds. In their own tests they found several games peaking at over 200ms, though many ran acceptably at around 150ms. The lag will be most noticed by players of twitch games like first-person shooters and racers – however, similar lag and latency tests have obviously yet to be performed on the UK service.OnLive has been reviewed favourably by US sources such asWiredandEngadget, though Games Radardrew attention tothe slightly 'fuzzy' visuals – refering to the onscreen 'artifacts' that are a consequence of the need to compress the video data for faster throughput from the servers to the client.The big advantages of the system however are cost and convenience. OnLive owners will have easy access to a large range of titles without having to buy retail copies or wait for games to download via services such as Steam. Comparisons have been made with YouTube, which, at launch, offered significantly lower picture quality than many rival services but offered the speed and convenience that internet users wanted. For more casual gamers who don't wish to buy a dedicated console, the compromise on speed and graphics quality may be acceptable. OnLive also offers instant free playable demos of every title, and provides supplementary features such as the ability to watch multiplayer gaming tournaments.The digital games business is the fastest growing area of the games industry. According to the Entertainment Software Association, digital content accounted for 24% of game sales in the US last year, generating $5.9bn in revenue. The sector is currently dominated by Steam, a PC games download site operated by Valve, the developer behind hits such as Portal and Half-Life. Steam is estimated to account for over 70% of the digital distribution market. There are also rival cloud-based gaming services such as Gakai and Playcast. OnLive is yet to officially provide a figure on how many subscribers it has in the US.OnLive will kick off its UK presence at theEurogamer Expoin London, where the company plans to hand out thousands of its Game Systems for free.
Ubisoft has announced a beta test for the multiplayer mode ofAssassin's Creed: Revelations, the latest instalment in the blockbusting historical stealth adventure series. The test will kick off on September 3, but until the 11th, only PlayStation 3 owners will get to take part.The beta is set to offer nine characters – The Sentinel, The Vanguard, The Guardian, The Vizier, The Thespian, The Deacon, The Bombardier, The Trickster and The Champion – all boasting different abilities. There will also be four modes available, the previously seen Wanted and Manhunt options joined by new Deathmatch and Artifact Assault variants. The development team has been tweaking the multiplayer component since the series originally introduced the feature in Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood. We thoroughly enjoyed the new version of the intriguingly cat-and-mouse-like Manhunt mode at Ubisoft's London showcase event last month.Timed exclusives have become a common element of the video game release schedule. Sometimes, the exclusives are for specific platforms: Modern Warfare 3 will feature DLC that will be available only on Xbox 360 for a short period. Other deals are cut with retailers – the Battlefield 3: Physical Warfare pack, which features exclusive weapons and maps, will only be available when the full game is pre-ordered through Game and Gamestation in the UK. However, it arrives as a DLC add-on for everyone else later. For the game publisher, payments and joint-marketing deals can be the incentive, for the retailer or platform-holder, the hope is that they're able to capture a larger amount of the initial release rush.Anyway, back to Assassin's Creed and Ubisoft also released this trailer for the series today. Check it out:Assassin's Creed: Revelations is released on November 15 for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360.
As the riots spread across London and the rest of the country over the last few days, Twitter has been awash with rumour, exaggeration and downright untruth alongside people spreading useful news.Here are a few simple pointers on how to get the most out of Twitter as news breaks – and how to avoid scaring people in the process.Unless you can see it happening, don't tweet about it.It can be immensely tempting to pass on the vital information that – for instance – Primark in Tooting has burned to the ground. It's a tremendously sad thought for devotees of leopard-print leggings and cheap handbags in south London, so it's no surprise that the news spread like wildfire on Monday night.The problem was that it was entirely untrue, and served only to spread fear among people living there. In this case, there was a pall of smoke hanging over the high street, and people who couldn't see the source put two and two together and came up with 47 – and then their friends helpfully made things worse by retweeting it.Bear in mind that some people are making jokes.This is how the Tooting Primark story began: with people making silly rhyming jokes about stealing in Ealing and looting in Tooting. The problem there is that only one of those things was actually happening at the time, but people latched onto the phrase as though it was true. If you see those sorts of casual references, bear in mind they might just be there to make a punchline. Once again, if you're not certain, ask.Bear in mind that being scared of something happening isn't the same thing as knowing that it's going to happen.A lot of the most virulent rumours on Monday night in London came about through people tweeting things like "Oh god, I'm scared they're coming to Brighton/Luton/Scunthorpe." Somehow, in the space of a few tweets, those thoughts morphed into others saying "I'm hearing rumours about them coming to Brighton/Luton/Scunthorpe!" and the whole affair snowballed from there. It's totally understandable that people are scared of what might happen, and want to talk about it – but don't assume that means that looters are imminently descending on Scunthorpe.If you see rumours, question them directly.If you retweet a rumour, even if you're looking for confirmation that it isn't true, what you may be doing is scaring a whole new set of people who had no idea that they might be in danger from, say, a giant fire-breathing Deborah Meaden rampaging towards Westminster.Rather than passing it on and thereby spreading the fear, try tweeting people directly to ask whether they know something is definitely happening, or whether they might have gotten a touch confused between the new Dragon's Den and the rolling riots coverage. Try to get direct confirmation from someone who has actually seen Deborah in all her glory.Get verification.Is that picture really of Birmingham, or is it of London? Have the local police said anything about riots in Scunthorpe? Has anyone got any pictures of the giant Deborah Meaden? If not, how do you know it's true?If you see something you know isn't true, try to correct it.Some people, for reasons unknown, enjoy tweeting random untruths composed entirely in capital letters about Shepherd's Bush being ON FIRE. Some of those people respond well when asked politely to retract their statements, while others may respond with a wild barrage of random abuse for no readily apparent reason.However, the people following what's going on in their neighbourhood will appreciate you trying to get the truth out – whether it's through questioning someone in person or through tweeting pictures of bits of Shepherd's Bush which are definitely NOT ON FIRE. Try to add context to your tweets – give people good reasons to believe you more than the other person.If you're tweeting about things you can see, be specific.Remember: if you can see it and you've got the means to publish information about it, that makes you a de facto journalist. So be responsible with your power. Be specific about where you are and what you can see.Resist the urge to exaggerate or assume things you can't see - stick to what's in front of you. If you can tweet pictures, do – but stay safe and don't take unnecessary risks to do so. You're too important to lose.Follow people you trust to be accurate.Many local police forces have been using Twitter to give out information and field rumours, and it's well worth finding yours and following them. There are a lot of journalists on Twitter – national newspaper tweeters like our Guardian team, includingPaul LewisandMustafa Khalili, as well as dozens of reporters from other papers, the BBC, Sky and ITN news teams.There are also local journalists from local papers, freelancers, and all sorts of folks committed to making sure they spread the truth and don't spread rumours. Every community has a few stalwarts who do this work. Find yours, and help them out.This Twitter list of trusted journalists covering the riots, compiled by the Sky News producer Neal Mann, aka @fieldproducer, is also useful.If you've been out looting and rioting, please tweet about it.Following this advice will make the police's job much easier.
Reports of Facebook's demise are greatly exaggerated.Data published on Tuesday by Experian Hitwise prompted a flurry of headlines exclaiming "Facebook usage falls to three-year low" and "Facebook traffic is falling in the UK". We know there are lies, damned lies and web statistics, but still – falling usage wasnotdirectly what the source data showed.Photo byGlamour Schatzon Flickr.Some rights reservedWhat Hitwise has published is data that shows a decrease in market share. Market share stats are only as authoritative as the data is comprehensive – ie how many sites are defined as and included as part of that market? In this case, Hitwise has included Gumtree (arguably ecommerce, not a social network?) and Moneysavingexpert (really? Does anything with a chatboard count as a social network now?) in its top 10 social networks.Facebook is the only site in that list that shows a fall in its market share from June to July, and one of three, along with Myspace and moneysavingexpert, that shows a year-on-year fall in share. Again, fall in market share is not the same as a fall in users, and as Hitwise hasn't given absolute user numbers it seems to imply their data isn't comprehensive enough to estimate those.Importantly, as one example of why market share data is unreliable, it could appear to show a fall in share on one site just because other sites in that category experienced untypical traffic surges.Has any fall in use been picked up anywhere else?June reportsbased on data from Facebook's own advertising tool seemed toconflictwith data from alternative third-party sources. But we've asked comScore to pull data this year for Facebook in the UK, which showed unique monthly visitor numbers, average time spent and number of pages per visitor all up between February and June.Photo byArtotemon Flickr.Some rights reservedUK Unique visitors and average minutes per visitor rose every month bar a slight fall from March to April. Visitors rose from 30.027 million in February to 30.714 million in June and minutes from 364.7 per month per visitor in February to 406 minutes in June.Pages per visitor increased from an average 515 per month per visitor in February to 711 in June. Across mobile devices, unique visitors to facebook.com, boosted by visits that come through email notifications about new messages and friends, reached 9,899,979 in the UK (though this number will be inflated by people using more than one mobile device) while unique visitor numbers to the official Facebook app across multiple platforms reached 2,354,284.comScore also notes that the fastest-growing Facebook user group in the UK is now males aged 45-54, reflecting how saturated Facebook's traditional core audience may be.Itisentirely possible that Facebook's growth, its adoption by new users particularly in established markets, is slowing – but there is not enough data to reach any firm conclusions about that. Given its rapid growth on mobile, and the launch on Tuesday ofFacebook Messengerin the US, it might be wise not to bet against Facebook just yet.
Amazon is the latest company to launch an HTML5 web app as an alternative to a native mobile application.Kindle Cloud Readergoes live on Wednesday, and will enable iPad users to read their Kindle ebooks in the Safari browser rather than the native Kindle app.The new site also works on the desktop, via the Safari and Chrome browsers. Support for Internet Explorer, Firefox and the BlackBerry PlayBook will follow later this year.One of the new site's key features is the ability to store the user's latest book locally for offline reading. Amazon follows theFinancial Timesin launching anHTML5 web appfor its flagship mobile service.The motivation is likely to be similar too. An HTML5 site can quickly be converted to run on new devices – a help on fragmented platforms like Android, and also a way of mitigating the risk when supporting newer devices such as HP's TouchPad. However, the more immediate effect is to work outside Apple's App Store ecosystem, where there are now strict rules on subscribing to or paying for content without using the iOS in-app payments system.Amazon recently removed the Kindle Store button in its iPhone and iPad apps to comply with Apple's new rules, even though users of those apps can still access ebooks bought from the store through other means. There are no such restrictions for an HTML5 web app, however.Kindle Cloud Reader will synchronise users' libraries, enabling them to pick up reading where they left off on another device, while accessing their bookmarks and notes."We are excited to take this leap forward in our 'Buy Once, Read Everywhere' mission and help customers access their library instantly from anywhere," said Amazon Kindle director Dorothy Nicholls."We have written the application from the ground up in HTML5, so that customers can also access their content offline directly from their browser. The flexibility of HTML5 allows us to build one application that automatically adapts to the platform you're using – from Chrome to iOS. To make it easy and seamless to discover new books, we've added an integrated, touch-optimised store directly into Cloud Reader, allowing customers one click access to a vast selection of books."Apple's new rules have nudged several companies into accelerating their HTML5 strategies. US video-on-demand service Vudu has just launched a web app for iPad, while the FT revealed last week that traffic to its HTML5 site is already outstripping its native apps for iOS.
Exactly how much credit should you give for scope? If a game developer designs something which aims at the loftiest of heights and comes damn close, do you award points for their intentions? Or do you mark them down on the comparatively small details that stop their vision from achieving perfection?If you believe the latter, it sounds like you're nitpicking. But if you plump for the former, here's another question: what do you do when those comparatively small details cause you to hurl your Xbox 360 controller across the room in teeth-gnashing frustration?From Dust is the game that spawned these questions. It is a beautiful and breath-taking piece of work. It's not just that the game looks and sounds wondrous – and it does – it's that it's brimming with ideas and inspiration.It offers the player a world that is presented as God's sandpit, and then it makes them God and allows them to play in it. For the first half, at least, players are bound to be captivated. Then they may find their divine patience being tests by a rather arbitrary AI.The player takes on the role of a deity, called The Breath, which watches over a tribe of rural dwellers as they make their way through a hostile and nearly uninhabitable land. To that end they have to help them establish a number of villages around each map they encounter, and once this is done, a portal opens up and the player can lead the tribe onto the next map. They also gain points (or perhaps recognition is a better word) for filling the landscape with flora which attracts fauna, and discovering lost parts of the tribe's lore.With The Breath, which is represented by a circling, slithering line of gold, players can help the tribe by picking up and moving around particles in the environment. If, say, the tribe is trapped on an island, the player can gouge a large swirling ball of sand out of the ground and deposit it in the water to build a makeshift bridge.If a regularly appearing tidal wave is wiping out a village, the player can pick up lumps of molten lava and build a rock barrier, shielding their charges. If a village or some of the vegetation near one catches fire, the player can grab a large, wobbly ball of water and douse the flames. The player can use these powers to also alter parts of the dynamic environment; dump enough sand to the left of a river, and you can divert its flow, for example.The player is further aided by four totems on each map. Once their tribesmen have built a village near at the foot of a totem, players can use that totem's power for a limited period of time. These abilities range from increasing the amount of matter The Breath can pick up, to evaporating all the water on a map (handy on flood planes) to jellifying water allowing the player to gouge temporary pathways through rivers and lakes.Along with the totems dotted about, the player will invariably catch sight of plants – some douse the area around them with water, some dry up overflowing rivers and spread fire and others explode. There are also prayer stones in some of the maps, which bestow upon the tribe the power to resist fire or water. These powers need to be collected; a village will only be safe against the element if they dispatch a tribesman to one of these prayer stones and have them bring back the spell.Players will take to From Dust easily at first; the HUD is uncluttered and the controls are intuitive and easy to use. The visuals are stunning and the soundtrack of crashing waves, whirling breezes and the odd volcanic thump immerse them completely in their role as the deity of a land before time.However, as time progresses, players are likely to come up against two large obstacles. The first of these is From Dust's level design, which goes from easy to challenging to cruel to downright vicious by the end. At the very beginning, players won't be called on to do anything more than build bridges and divert lava flows and rivers. By the end they're darting all over the screen, bailing out their tribe, building totems and essentially trying to keep their head above water.This in itself isn't a bad thing. After all, it's not problematic if a game becomes more and more challenging over time – in fact, that's what games should do. What trips things up a bit is the arbitrary nature of the AI, which sends the player's tribe into danger more often than not.The AI's decisions with regards to the route the tribesmen decide to take through the map seems completely random, and while this doesn't matter early it can have infuriating results on maps where success depends on a certain amount of timing – particularly those involving tidal waves, volcanos and flood planes.While the route the AI will take is highlighted by a swirling white line, the player might not always see obstacles in its path until they hear a cry from somewhere in the map. Due to the random nature of the AI's progression a fair bit of micro-managing is required, a lot of trial and error and quite a bit of luck in some instances.In the end, though, From Dust plays the same trick on players that most games that purport to set them up as a god do. There's a brief window of feeling all-powerful before the realisation sets in that in actual fact, far from being a god, the player is the wet-nurse for a group of AI controlled bots.From Dust is sublime – it's arguably close to being a piece of art. But prospective players should be warned you will only succeed here if you are a calm, benevolent and (above all else) patient god. Wrathful Old Testament types needn't bother; you'll only end up staring at the Game Over screen.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
GivenNokia's epic decline, it's doesn't seem unreasonable to predict that Rovio, parent to the Angry Birds phenomenon, could soon become Finland's most successful export.What started with a simple but beautifully executed iPhone game less than two years ago now claims 120 million active mobile users, 300m downloads, spansAndroid,Nokia Ovi,PlayStation 3andChromeversions, asoft-toy range, and evenbaby blankets. And then there's thefeature film, development for which has started in earnest with the recruitment of former Marvel Studios chairman David Maisel asspecial adviser to the project. Despite Rovio's acquisition of animation company Kombo in June, the film is still two to three years off.Photo byhahatangoon Flickr.Some rights reservedYou'd be forgiven for thinking Rovio is still essentially a games company, having produced 51 titles before Angry Birds took off. But Peter Vesterbacka – Rovio's "mighty eagle" – this week told the Fortune Brainstorm Tech conference in Colorado that Rovioisn'ta games company, and makes no bones about Rovio's strategy. Hence Rovio changing its name from Rovio Mobile to Rovio Entertainment."What we are building is a next-generation entertainment franchise," he said. "I think we're the fastest growing consumer franchise ever. We're working on new Angry Birds experiences and we'll expose a bit more of the Angry Birds story."And the next Angry Birds "entertainment" experience? The Angry Birds cookbook, no less. It's one of three books out this year, all being self-published by Rovio. Needless to say, Bad Piggies' Egg Recipes is an egg-themed cookbook that includes egg sushi and egg salad sandwiches, no doubt with some great web marketing opportunities involving pig/bird food fights and how-to kitchen videos.Photo byslash__on Flickr.Some rights reservedBeyond that, Rovio's publishing plans start with some light-hearted educational books for kids aged four to 18, designed for parents and teachers. Wibe Wagemans, Rovio's "hummingbird" (in the real world, he's actually head of branding and joined from Microsoft Bing) said the books are centred around Finnish educational philosophies that typically emphasise the role of play in learning, so sort of diametrically opposed to Gina Ford or Amy "Tiger Mom" Chua.Is there really enough publicaeipathyfor Angry Birds? It does seem to be an unstoppable brand, fuelled by the rise of the app, mobile and the increasing influence of tech in the mainstream. And Rovio has understandably fixed its future expansion of the power of the global entertainment brand. At the Fortune event, Vesterbacka bragged that Rovio had repeatedly been told the Angry Birds franchise would fail."We have been told time after time that we're not supposed to do movies, books, toys," reportedAP. "We sold like 8m toys. If you are strong brand, if you have a strong following of fans you can do anything."As for luck, he dismissed whether that had played a part in the success of the game. "First of all we are very analytical so Angry Birds was built to be a hit. We tried to eliminate luck at every stage of the process. We built 51 games before Angry Birds so it wasn't like we were an overnight success."
European customs officers have been ordered to seize shipments of Samsung's Galaxy Tab computers after Apple won a preliminary injunction against the Korean electronics giant in an acrimonious patent dispute.Samsung on Wednesday said it would act immediately to lift the blockade, which prevents sales of its flagship tablet computer in the European Union, except the Netherlands.Tens of thousands of Samsung Galaxy Tabs are thought to have been seized after the ruling late on Tuesday by a German patents court.Apple has accused Samsung's Galaxy range of smartphones and tablet computers of "slavishly" copying the design and functionality of its popular iPhone and iPad lines.Apple will apply to have the injunction extended to the Netherlands before the patents court in the Hague later on Wednesday.A Samsung spokeswoman said on Wednesday morning: "Samsung is disappointed with the court's decision and we intend to act immediately to defend our intellectual property rights through the ongoing legal proceedings in Germany and will continue to actively defend these rights throughout the world."We will take all necessary measures to ensure Samsung's innovative mobile communications devices are available to customers in Europe and around the world."This decision by the court in Germany in no way influences other legal proceedings filed with the courts in Europe and elsewhere."Apple alleges that the Samsung tablet infringes 10 separate patents in areas such as data transmission and wireless technology.A spokesman for Apple said: "It's no coincidence that Samsung's latest products look a lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to the user interface and even the packaging. This kind of blatant copying is wrong, and we need to protect Apple's intellectual property when companies steal our ideas."Earlier in August the California-based company forced Samsung to delay the launch of its Galaxy Tab 10.1 in Australia after it won a preliminary injunction in that country. Apple, whichovertook oil group Exxon as the world's most valuable companyon Tuesday night, is also seeking to block sales of the rival tablet computer in the US.Samsung has countersued Apple in its native South Korea, as well as Japan, the US and Germany.Florian Mueller, an intellectual property analyst who has followed the dispute between the two electronics giants, said that to win the EU injunction Apple must have convinced the Dusseldorf judge that it would be likely to win the main court proceedings."A preliminary injunction is ordered only if the court believes you're likely to prevail in the main proceeding, but that doesn't necessarily mean that you will,"he said. "In the event you lose the main proceeding, you're liable for damages."
Facebook is making its move into the mobile instant messaging market with a standalone app for iPhone and Android called Facebook Messenger. It is set to provide competition for platform-specific apps like Research In Motion's BBM and Apple's iMessage, as well as the messaging elements of Google+.Released last night in the US – although it is not yet available in the UK – the application ties into the existing Facebook Messages feature on its website, which aggregates texts, chats, emails and instant messages. The app can be used to send messages to Facebook friends or other people in the user's phone address book, delivering them by notification or text."More and more of us rely on our phones to send and receive messages. But it isn't always easy to know the best way to reach someone on their phone. Should you send an email or text? Which will they check first? Did they even get your last message?" wrote Facebook engineer Lucy Zhang in ablog postintroducing the new app. "We think messaging should be easier than that. You should be able to write a message, click 'Send' and know that you will reach the person right away."Zhang was the co-founder of mobile group-messaging startup Beluga, which was acquired by Facebook in March 2011. Its technology forms the core of the new Facebook Messenger app. The latter includes group messaging features and the ability to attach location data and photos to conversations. News site 9 to 5 Mac has alreadydiscovered codewithin the app that hints at video conferencing being added at a later point.App-based mobile messaging is a crowded space at the moment. BBM remains hugely popular, with RIM saying at the end of July that its BlackBerry-only service has more than 45 million users. BBM can now be integrated into other BlackBerry apps using the BBM Social API, which was recently released to developers.RIM has been facing questions in the UK this week over the use of its private messaging network by people involved in riots around the UK, although RIM has said it willcooperate with police investigations.Apple unveiled its equivalent to BBM, iMessage, at itsWWDC conference in June 2011. It will be part of the iOS 5 software that is due for release in the autumn, and is a native messaging system that can be used across iOS devices, working over Wi-Fi and 3G.The platform-specific nature of these apps has left an opportunity for other services that run across a range of smartphones and tablets. WhatsApp Messenger was used by nearly 800,000 mobile users in the UK alone in April this yearaccording to comScore– more than Skype – while Canadian startup Kik signed up millions of users for its Kik Messenger app in late 2010 before provoking a patent infringement lawsuit from RIM.Messaging is a big part of the mobile apps for Google's recently launched Google+ social service too, with a feature called Huddle. It too blends one-to-one and group messaging for Android and iPhone users' Google contacts. Facebook will be hoping that its 750 million-strong social graph – as well as its ability to message non-Facebook contacts from the user's address book – will give it a leg-up against the competition.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple Wins Patents for Integrated Touch Screen, Voicemail &amp; More &gt;&gt; Patently Apple"The US Patent and Trademark Office officially published a series of 20 newly granted patents for Apple Inc. today. There were three notable inventions presented today. The first relates to Apple's "Integrated Touch Screen". The invention allows the touch display to be manufactured with fewer parts and/or processing steps as well as ensuring that the display itself may be thinner, brighter and require less power."We'd Work With Microsoft If We Could Get That Nokia Deal &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Motorola Mobility CEO Sanjay Jha now says he'd be interested in shipping Windows Phones if Motorola could get the same kind of deal that Nokia got from Microsoft."Good luck with that.There Will Be No Files In The Cloud &gt;&gt; A VCNot looking good for Dropbox: "I've spent a bunch of time talking to entrepreneurs who are building companies in and around the cloud storage space. It's not a space I like very much because I don't think we'll be using files in the cloud. Now Dropbox is a brilliant company and an amazing service and they are doing very well, but will we need a service like Dropbox when everything is in the cloud? I don't think so."Hacker Group Anonymous Vows To Destroy Facebook On November 5 &gt;&gt; Business Insider'Citing privacy concerns and the difficulty involved in deleting a Facebook account, Anonymous hopes to "kill Facebook," the "medium of communication [we] all so dearly adore."'Facebook's Messenger app hides a dirty little secret: Video conferencing &gt;&gt; Apple Intelligence"Today, Facebook released their Messenger app and seconds later, we see that there is a video component to the application"Nokia to Exit Symbian, Low-End Phone Businesses in North America &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Nokia plans to stop selling both feature phones and Symbian-based smartphones in the United States and Canada as it tries to put all of its muscle behind the company's huge bet on Windows Phone."Apple wins injunction against Samsung Galaxy Tab in European Union &gt;&gt; TNWSamsung: "Samsung is disappointed with the court's decision and we intend to act immediately to defend our intellectual property rights through the ongoing legal proceedings in Germany and will continue to actively defend these rights throughout the world."The request for injunction was filed with no notice to Samsung, and the order was issued without any hearing or presentation of evidence from Samsung."We will take all necessary measures to ensure Samsung's innovative mobile communications devices are available to customers in Europe and around the world."Apple blocks Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 in the entire European Union except for the Netherlands &gt;&gt; FOSSPatents"There are differences in competition law between Germany and the Netherlands, which is why Apple filed separate lawsuits. In Germany, Apple asserts not only an infringement of the said Community design but also cites unfair competition grounds, denouncing the Galaxy Tab as an iPad imitation."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A burst of 6 apps for your considerationSay What?!We wrote about London startup 8linQ earlier in 2011: a joint venture including former developers of DJ Hero, it's focusing on mobile and tablet music games. Say What?! is its first effort: a game based around tapping icons to match the lyrics of songs from Kasabian, the Zutons, Scouting for Girls and – yes! – The Nolans.iPhoneCity TradingCity Trading is a BlackBerry OS 6 app from financial trading firm City Index. It claims to be the first live spread betting and CFD trading app for BlackBerry, letting people trade around the clock.BlackBerryKinskyHi-fi firm Linn has released this iPhone and iPad app for people who want to remotely control their Linn DS system at home.iPhone / iPadBoxee for iPadBoxee is best known for its set-top box, but now the company has a spin-off iPad app. It lets users stream video from their computer to their iPad over Wi-Fi, while also pulling down web videos shared by friends on Facebook, Twitter and Tumblr. Video can also be sent wirelessly to the Boxee box itself, for bigger screen viewing.iPadBon Appetit: Pasta PerfectThe latest iPad cookbook app to hit the App Store comes from Bon Appetit, offering 100 old and new pasta-based recipes. It's the work of Conde Nast Digital.iPadSketch PadSketch Pad is an innovative app for HTC's Android tablets. Well, the ones that support its Scribble technology anyway. The idea: draw, write musical notation or scribble notes using the stylus from the HTC Flyer.AndroidYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
It's Wednesday. Let's have a chat about video games.
Stock market turmoil in Wall Street has helped Apple pip oil group Exxon to become the world's most valuable company.The tech company has been closing in on Exxon for some time and was "just" $50bn (£30bn) away from taking the lead when it reported yet another quarter of record-breaking earnings on 19 July.As the US stock markets bounced back from last week's crash the tech firm overtook Exxon with a market value of $337bn compared to ExxonMobil's $334bn. Exxon could easily slip back into the lead if the recent fears for the global economy subside but the gap is so close that the two look certain to be battling it out for some time.In part Apple's gain is down to Exxon's loss. Exxon's value has been hit by the economic slowdown and depressed oil prices brought about by the financial turmoil. Its shares were as high as $87.98 in April but were trading at just under $70 on Tuesday night .Apple has shown gravity-defying growth and delivered record results after record results. Last month it produced another stellar quarter, strengthened by strong sales of its iPhones, iPads and record sales of its Mac computers.It sold 20.34m iPhones – more than double the number in the same period last year – and 9.25m iPads, almost triple the number sold during its debut quarter in 2010."We're thrilled to deliver our best quarter ever," said Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, announcing that revenues were $28.57bn, up 90% year-on-year, and profits $7.31bn, a rise of 124%. Exxon's second quarter earnings were up a more pedestrian 41% from the second quarter of 2010.If and when Apple secures its position as the world's most valuable company, it will mark another milestone in a dramatic reversal of fortune for the company and its founder.Jobs was fired from Apple in 1985 as the company lost its way and Microsoft-powered PCs seemed destined to dominate the market. When he returned to the company in 1997, the troubled firm was worth just $2bn. He led a renaissance at the company, focusing on design and innovation and setting what seemed like impossibly ambitious targets.Starting with the brightly coloured iMac, Apple redefined the consumer electronics market at a time when the internet was just going mainstream. The iMac was followed by the iPod, which revolutionised the music industry. Then came the iPhone and the iPad. Each new release has driven Apple to new heights. But while there have been misses – Apple TV looks like a dud – the brand has become synonymous with style and innovation.One of Jobs's early goals was to surpass Dell. When Jobs returned to Apple Michael Dell was asked what he would do in Jobs's position: "What would I do? I'd shut it down and give the money back to the shareholders," he said.In January 2006, with a value of $72.1bn, Apple surpassed Dell. In May last year, Apple achieved a huge milestone, passing Microsoft in market capitalisation.Microsoft (presently valued at $205bn) was the largest company in the world by market capitalisation for two years in the late 1990s. Now Apple has left all its tech peers behind and is jostling for position with the oil industry's biggest beast.
Police investigating those responsible for the London riots will be able to track down and arrest them based on their BlackBerry Messenger communication with others who took part.BlackBerry owners using the private social network to message each other and plan unrest could find their personal information – including their names and those of their contacts – handed over to police as part of their investigation.The BlackBerry-maker, Research In Motion, on Monday vowed to cooperate with the Scotland Yard inquiry following claims that BlackBerry Messenger played a key role in helping to organise the violence.David Lammy, the MP for Tottenham, on Tuesday appealed for the Canadian manufacturer to shut down BlackBerry Messenger in attempt to stem further unrest.Information about those sending messages about the London riots on the covert social network, which is only available to BlackBerry owners, will be of great interest to police. Three teenagers were arrested earlier on Tuesday on suspicion of inciting rioting via Facebook.Research In Motion (RIM) could hand over information about rioters – including their names, the number of messages sent and received, the names of people they sent messages to, the time they were sent, and the location – without being issued with a warrant by the police.However, police officers would have to be granted a warrant in order to force RIM to hand over the contents of users' "broadcasts".Mike Conradi, the partner and telecoms specialist at London law firm DLA Piper, said: "It would be unlawful of RIM to disclose the contents of messages without a warrant issued by a senior police figure or a secretary of state – but that doesn't mean [RIM] couldn't disclose information that would be helpful to the police."Conradi added the names, contacts and times of prominent BlackBerry Messenger users would allow police to draw up "quite a detailed picture" of which rioters to pinpoint and obtain a warrant for.A clause in the Data Protection Act allows companies to hand over an individual's private information if it is in the interests of national security or if it allows for the detection and possible prevention of crime.Research In Motion declined to comment. On Monday the company emphasised that it complies with UK legislation on the interception of communication and co-operates fully with the Home Office.Lammy said BlackBerry Messenger was "one of the reasons why unsophisticated criminals are outfoxing an otherwise sophisticated police force".He added: "BBM is different as it is encrypted and police can't access it."However, only BlackBerry devices used by enterprises and large corporations use sophisticated encryption software. Regular consumer handsets bought on the high street employ less sophisticated security, meaning RIM can view messages sent from those devices via its servers.Computer hackers defaced theRIM official blogearlier on Tuesday in a retaliatory attack over the company's pledge to assist the ongoing police investigation.The hackers, who called themselves TeamPoison, posted a message on the site that read: "You Will _NOT_ assist the UK Police because if u do innocent members of the public who were at the wrong place at the wrong time and owned a blackberry will get charged for no reason at all, the Police are looking to arrest as many people as possible to save themselves from embarrassment."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
How many web users are currently being sued for alleged online copyright infringement in the US? The folk atTorrentFreak, who have beenobsessivelylogging these cases, claim 200,000 BitTorrent users are now involved in some stage of lawsuit, and claim settling with a relatively small fee on a large number of cases is fast becoming a way that rightsholders can profit from piracy.Nearly all the 201,828 cases have been filed againstBitTorrentusers who allegedly shared music online, with a small number usingeD2k. Once lawyers for the rightsholders have identified individuals, they generally offer to settle for a typical penalty of $2,500 which means no further legal costs or risking larger $150,000 infringement fines. TorrentFreak claims that many of the people targeted by the lawsuits aren't the actual infringers but the person who pays for the connection; facing a massive fine and a long case, they opt to pay a small fine and be done with it.And by charging an average $2,500 fee, this group of lawyers and rightsholders could be generating as much as a quarter of a billion dollars in revenue. Far less than they would make from traditional sales of this material, but still - if this could be seen as a growing revenue stream for them, what's to stop them repeatedly charging consumers in this indirect way?• Incidentally, more progressive content creators have chosen to explore how they could work with existing, popular and comprehensive online content distribution platforms.At the end of June, BitTorrent announced that the first part of the indie spy thrillerA Lonely Place for Dying; executive producer was James Cromwell of The Green Mile and LA Confidential. Convenient, certainly, in demonstrating legitimate uses of BitTorrent, but an intelligent use of a popular delivery tool that deserves credit. The producers also usedVodo, a kind of 'Kickstarter for films', to get funding. The film has been downloadedmore than 1m times."We've received a dozen offers to release the film through traditional methods," said writer and director Justin Eugene Evans when the film was released on BitTorrent. "However, none of the offers made sense to us financially or artistically. Every producer's rep, sales agent and independent distributor presented us with a draconian contract. Between BitTorrent's technology and VODO's ability to deliver an audience we decided this was the superior path. This gives our motion picture global reach. And, VODO's donation model is at the tipping point; with their help we'll earn our investors just as much as we'd have received from a Los Angeles sales agent."While these experiments still raise inevitable questions about business models, one thing is sure. The platform is ready and BitTorrent has proven their intention to help."
On this week's podcast, Charles Arthur finds out what's in the pipeline for BlackBerry-maker RIM after the company's smartphone was caught up in the London riots. He discovers the future of a company that recently announced plans to cut 2,000 jobs, and a huge loss in market share in one of its key territories – the US – but how its new operating systems and its handheld Playbook should change its fortunes.We also demystify the process of getting funding for your great digital idea. DFJ Espirit's Nic Brisbourne, the funder behind travel social network WAYN and social media consultancy service Conversocial, and author of Equity Kicker, is in the studio to talk us through Series A, Angels and VC funding. He also drops a few hints about the next big thing: where and what is going to make money over the next five years.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
A Hampshire teenager managed to hack into his school's website and expose the personal details of 20,000 people, including medical information on more than 7,000 pupils.The 15-year-old unnamed pupil broke into Bay House's private database in March after he obtained the password from a member of staff.The student, who has been temporarily excluded by the school, exposed the names, addresses, photographs and medical information of 7,600 past and present pupils, plus confidential details on about 13,000 adults.Bay House school, in Gosport, was ruled to have breached the data protection act. An investigation by theInformation Commissioner's Office (ICO)found the school had compromised the privacy of those on the database because it used the same password for the website.The headteacher, Ian Potter, has signed an undertaking to ensure reasonable measures are taken to encrypt and separate sensitive and confidential information held on the school's systems.The ICO said there was "no evidence" the student had exposed the personal details further than showing it to a handful of his friends.It is not known what motivated the incident, although a source close to the inquiry said it was "probably just teenage intrigue".Bay House issued a statement saying: "We are pleased to learn from the ICO that it is taking no further steps, because we have fully co-operated with the commissioner's office. We take very seriously the security of our data system. In this case we were able to act very quickly to identify the hacker and take appropriate action."Separately, the ICO on Tuesday rebuked theLushcosmetics group after fraudsters hacked into its website and stole the credit card details of 5,000 of its customers.The company was found to have breached the data protection act at the time of the attack, which happenedbetween October 2010 and January 2011. The beauty group became aware of the hacking only when almost 100 of its customers reported credit card fraud. Many more may have been targeted.Lush was criticised for informing its customers on 21 January – four months after the first of the payment details were stolen.Sally Anne Poole, the ICO's acting head of enforcement, warned that the breach should act as a warning to retailers to protect customers' information. "Lush took some steps to protect their customers' data but failed to do regular security checks and did not fully meet industry standards relating to card payment security," she said. "Had they done this, it may have prevented the fraud taking place and could have saved the victims a great deal of worry and time invested in claiming their money back."
It is 21 years since Charlie Kindel joined Microsoft, yet his departure has still come as something of a surprise to the Valley. Most recently general manager of Windows Phone, Kindel waited until Windows Phone Mango, or version two with the delicious Metro UI, was finished before announcing his departure to work on his own startup.It was Kindel who did much of the evangelising to try and get independent developers interested in developing for the phone's app platform. About 27,000 apps have been submitted in just over 12 months.Photo byMicrosoft Swedenon Flickr.Some rights reservedKindel's characteristically chirpy  and very lengthyfarewell mailincluded: "To the Windows Phone team: I may stop using some Microsoft products now that I'm out of here. But not Windows Phone. The BEST product Microsoft has ever built. Do not let up!"To my kids: No, just because I don't work at Microsoft anymore you may not use Google. Remember, every time you use Google, a puppy dies."Kindel didn't give away much about his new venture, but said it has to do with sports, advertising, mobile, social networking and the cloud. He told the Seattle-basedGeekWirethat there would never have been a right time to leave."We have close to 27,000 apps in the marketplace, the best toolset, and amazingly high customer satisfaction," he said. "We would not have gotten to the table with Nokia if they didn't believe we were in the race to win long term. We're now in the middle phase of the marathon. This is where Microsoft's stamina genes will come into play."Mango, meanwhile, is due out in the Autumn. We'll wait and see if thepredictionis right that Microsoft's deal with Nokia will eventually put Microsoft's WP7 in more people's hands than Apple's iOS by 2015. Apple might be able to dig its claws in deeper if the increasing speculation about a lower-end phone, an iPhone Nano, turns out to be right after all.
The web has always done lists rather well, and in the context of social media, lists are a powerful editorial and marketing device that is simple and quick to pass on. (Ask Mashable...)That makes Twitter's latest acquisition particularly interesting.Bagcheck, which confirmed the deal last night, lets users create and curate 'bags' that house collections around social interests, which could be anything from the bestAndroid photography appsto resources forgardening in California.Bagcheck already lets users share their bags, or lists, via Facebook and Twitter. While Twitter allows users to create lists of users, there's no straightforward way to curate collections of tweets and Bagcheck hints at Twitter's aspirations in this area. Though we're not yet sure whether Bagcheck would be directly incorporated into Twitter,Bagcheck's announcementhints at this by suggesting users can export their data if they are concerned about the service changing.Photo bypuuikibeachon Flickr.Some rights reservedBut these lists could easily become yet another of Twitter's revenue streams (along with promoted accounts, promoted tweets and promoted trends), with retailers paying a premium to promote collections that might include an essential camping equipment list or baby paraphernalia, all with relevant retail links. It adds a potentially lucrative layer of granularity to consumer tastes that takes Twitter's link-sharing concept to a new level.As part of the deal, Twitter gets to bring co-founderSam Pullaraon board while fellow co-founderLuke Wroblewskiis brewing something new. Bagcheck will keep running for the meantime, but that's a pretty impressive outcome for a site that only launched seven months ago. Lists and collections is a growing area of interest that Twitter has sniffed out early on; theNext Webpoints out that along with the designers' favouritePinterest, Google has been rummaging around int his space too,acquiring Fridgetwo weeks ago.Theofficial announcement: "Bagcheck started out of a passion for connecting people to their interests, allowing people to have a place to discover and share the 'bags' of items they are most passionate about, whether it's a collection ofphotography gearor an arsenal ofcooking tools. Now, Sam will bring his passion for connecting people to what interests them to his new role at Twitter."
From The Tempest to Lost, the island has always proved a fruitful setting for speculative fiction. Exotic but solitary, it has represented both peace and fear; freedom and despair. No man is an island, wrote John Donne – until the man is stranded on one of course.This is the guiding concept behindFar Cry 3, the latest title in the open-world shooter series, originated by Crytek back in 2004. The first title was an Island of Doctor Moreau-style tale of mad scientists and genetic mutants. When Ubisoft Montreal took over development duties, it produced a series of extensions to that title, before a true sequel, Far Cry 2, shifted the action to mainland Africa. In this story, a lone mercenary had to navigate a violent civil war between two political factions. Now, the third title is returning to the series roots. We're on a tropical island again – and we're alone. Though not for long.Ubisoft isn't saying much about the story yet, but as with the previous title, it's an original plot with new characters and fresh motivations. It seems the lead character, Jason Brody, has been shipwrecked on a lush paradise isle, where he discovers a group of unidentified gunmen – modern-day pirates, we're told – using the local population as slave labourers, shooting at them indiscriminately. When Brody is captured, he comes into contact with a manic gang leader named Vaas who lectures him on the nature of madness before tying a rock to his ankle and dumping him in a deep lagoon, filled with the floating bodies of previous victims.What is going on? One man who knows is Jason VandenBerghe, the game's creative director and a veteran of titles like Red Steel 2 and earlier, the Call of Duty franchise. He acknowledges the differences between the Far Cry titles so far, but prefers to linger on the similarities. "When you dig down, it's not such a crazy shift," he says. "To me, Far Cry is about being in a place where, if you need help, you can't just call 911 – they're not coming. There's no law, no order, nothing. And the reason that's compelling is, there are bad men doing bad things: we hand you an AK-47 and say, 'okay, what are you going to do about it?' From that perspective, the tropical island in the first game, the African country in the second and this island – they're all perfect Far Cry locations; they are great for this kind of gameplay."And the kind of gameplay he has in mind is tactical first-person action within an open setting. There is an over-riding story structure, but there is also wriggle room. "One of the great innovations of the second Far Cry title was to really push that open-world feeling – we want to evolve that," explains VandenBerghe. "We had a sense that it was easy to get lost in that game, it was almost too open in some ways; this time we wanted to provide a little more focus, but not too much. We'll say, your current mission is here and here's where you can get a new mission, beyond that what you do and where you go is up to you – you're going to take the narrative in the order that you like."So if I'm on a mission where I have to go and kill those pirates over there, I can say, 'whoah, wait a minute, there's a bridge across this lake, I've never seen before. You know screw it, the pirates will wait – I'm going to find out where the bridge goes.' And the idea is, around that corner, there should be something cool to see – something that will help you understand the history of this island, or something to collect, or something that evolves your understanding of how everything happens. I wander around, I find a cave, I wander down the tunnel, I come to a rock fall and there's a skeleton buried underneath – what happened there? You have this sense that you're discovering something. We didn't tell you to look in that cave, you went on your own. That's the promise of the Far Cry world, that's something we put a lot of time into."It looks, then, as though Far Cry 3 is a mix of linear, story-led elements and explorable offshoots – an interesting combination of Far Cry 2's freedom with the constraints of the cinematic military shooter. We're using a quest-based structure where you'll encounter a character, that character will have a base, a home location in the world. Your radar will say, 'hey that person is here and they're ready for you', then you'll talk to them and have that scene with the character right there. In order to create a compelling narrative you have to have these little choke points. So we look for opportunities to create natural points that work right up against the open-world experience. That's what we showed in the E3 demo: the player is exploring, he's on his way to a mission, he reaches the overlook where he needs to take some pictures and, bam, he's taken prisoner. We tell you a story, then we immediately release you into the wild!"It's not the sort of wild we're used to from narrative shooters. The scene with Vaas, in which he slopes about spitting out lines like 'insanity is making the same mistakes over and over again', is bizarre and scary, but it's also intriguing and ambiguous; he is much more nuanced than the standard in-game baddie. It turns out that the Far Cry 3 team gave the game's actors freedom to develop characters in their own way, improvising on the script and working with the mo-cap directors to build and record natural performance. "I think game designers have gotten into a bad habit of starting and ending with archetypes in their writing," says VandenBerghe. "It's a mistake. When we started Far Cry 3, we said fuck archetypes, we want to talk about real people."As for Brody, VandenBerghe refers to him as a true native of the 21st century. He's at home with modern technology, and he's immediately comfortable with the AK-47 he purloins from a killed enemy. But he also carries a camera; he's curious. He's a mix of photo-journalist and mercenary. "This isn't where he wanted to go," he continues. "This island wasn't his plan, but his boat sank and other bad shit happened to him along the way. So now he's got to get off the island. He's also going to encounter a lot of drama – I think of this as the island of 1,000 secrets, there's some real dark stuff going on here and he's going to get involved in that. And he's going to have an opportunity to discover – is he really a hero and what does that mean? What are the consequences of heroism?"So it seems the story isn't just about escape – as with Far Cry 2, it's going to be about deciding whether or not to help the locals. And it will be about utilising the organic environment in confrontations. During the E3 demo, we saw Brody using the noise of a waterfall to creep up on a pirate guard and take him out. At the close of the level, he swims through a deep river to avoid the guards in a pirate encampment before emerging at a helicopter that could get him off the isle.Players can also select a more direct approach to such set-pieces. It's possible to slide straight into the base camp on a zip line before confronting the guards. "We have a death from above attack," says VandenBerghe. "If you're above someone and they're unaware of you, you can jump down on top of them with your machete. There's a double knife kill where you can come up behind someone and take them out with their own knife, while throwing a knife at someone else. Which is pretty cool. We use height, we're going to use water in a lot of different ways – it's great as a stealth mechanic. Water is a big focus for us on this island, in the same way that fire was a big deal in the savannah in Far Cry 2."AI has been tuned to cope with the open approach. Enemies will make mistakes, depending on how experienced they are, but they'll also be able to track the player. As VandenBerghe explains: "What we want in our AI is believable human combatants – we want to believe that they're people with guns who are trying to kill me. At the end of the E3 demo, when the player is taking off in the helicopter, there's a guy running in from around a corner. It's systemic so it doesn't always play out the right way – but if he does that right, the guy will have this 'oh shit!' moment – he'll be completely startled. AI that make human mistakes are much more interesting to play against. We've been investing heavily in that kind of thinking."We've still only seen barely ten minutes of Far Cry 3 and know nothing of its wider narrative, or the dark secrets at the core of the island. What we do know is that this is a beautiful looking game, with dense forest areas and interesting scenic features (including, on one isolated pathway, a Japanese second world war bomber, hanging from the foliage – an intriguing nod to the South Pacific setting of the first game); it is also a game in which the player must combat an ambiguous force while safe-guarding the helpless civilians. It could be as much about tactics as it is about getting that reticule on the target as quickly as possible.At the heart of it all appears to be a typically skewed Ubisoft approach to game design. It's not about an identikit hero blasting along a corridor of death – it seems there are, you know, themes being explored. "Far Cry is all about a fantasy I call Man Alone," says VandenBerghe. "It's Robinson Crusoe, It's Castaway, it's any environment in which I'm cut off from civilisation and I have to rely on myself to survive. I have to prove that I'm competent and then I'm confronted with the darkness – and I've got to overcome that darkness by learning more about who I am."It also seems as though there is a longer, more diverse plan for the Far Cry series. "This story is an archetype – it's a powerful myth and it's one of the reasons the original Far Cry hit so hard. I want to make sure that's what we're delivering in Far Cry 3. In the future, we can go to other places: one of the things that's exciting about Far Cry is that it's very flexible as an idea. The core of it is the player-driven experience – that open-world style of play. It leaves a lot of room for interpretation. It's very freeing in a way."•Far Cry 3 is due out in spring 2012 on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
Myrecent review of the Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.1 Android tabletstirred up a dreary and inevitable round of OS advocacy and such, with both Apple and Android lovers baying like wounded members of persecuted religious minorities, arguing about which OS is most worthy of our love and devotion.For me, no love or devotion is due to an operating system or a gadget.I'm enough of an old technology hand to know that any love we harbour for our gadgets is unrequited and generally tragic – not least because you are not destined to have a long-term love-affair with your gizmos, as they will be semi-obsolete in a year or two.Don't get me wrong. I know that some devices, apps and systems can work well – that is, they can make it easier to do something that was hard, or possible to do something that was impossible. That's why we all use this stuff. But I think that how well a system works is only half the picture: the other half ishow badly it fails.Because technology fails all the time. Networked, general-purpose computing devices have so many different failure modes that they can hardly be counted. Your phone or tablet can have problems coping with something as abstract as bad Maximum Transmission Unit sizes in its network connection, or as concrete as being dropped and trodden on by your toddler.A program that runs flawlessly one day can be derailed by another program, or an OS update, or a mysterious configuration problem – hence the old "Rename your preferences folder and restart" diagnostic procedure.The general state of technology is to be broken; which is not so different from other complex systems, like technology's users. You might have lost a pre-beach holiday stone thanks to diet and exercise, only to get a spot on your cheek, bad traffic on the way to the airport, a row with your spouse, and a jammed knuckle from your suitcase handle. Human beings who can soldier on and stay happy and functional in the face of adversity are said to be "resilient," which means that theyfail well.After all, it's no good being the world's happiest, best-adjusted, nicest person if you fall to pieces the minute you get a paper-cut. And that goes double for interpersonal systems: any couple can be happy when everything is going right, but no marriage can survive unless both of its participants are capable of soldiering on when things are going pear-shaped.I don't use Android tablets and phones because I hate Apple; I most certainly don't use them because I love Google. And I don't prefer Android to iOS because it works better than Apple — in some aspects, it does, in some aspects it doesn't.I use Android because Idon'ttrust Google. Sure, I trust and like individual googlers, and admire many of the things the company has managed – but I don't for one moment think that Google's management is making its decisions in order to make me happy, fulfilled and free.I think there are good days when Google's management might believe that helping me attain those ends will make it more money, but if it were to believe that making me miserable would enrich its shareholders without alienating too many of its key personnel and partners, my happiness would cease to matter in the slightest.So why use Android? Because it requires less trust in Google than using iOS requires that you trust Apple. iOS has one official store, and it's illegal in most places to buy and install apps except through this store. If you and Apple differ about which apps you need, you have to break the law to get your iPhone or iPad to run the app that Apple rejected.Jailbroken iOS devices have sometimes been targeted by Apple security updates that render them inoperable, and jailbreakers have a reputation for not keeping their devices up-to-date.By contrast, Android allows you to run apps from any store you choose. Google still rejects plenty of apps submitted to its store, but if you don't like Google's choices, you can decide to make some of your own.That's failing well.More of the internal workings of iOS are secret than their equivalent workings in the Android world. Apple's operating system runs more DRM processes that are intended to allow code to run that treats you as an untrusted adversary and refuses to accept your commands. Not least, Apple has to run all those processes aimed at stopping you from choosing to use an app that Apple hasn't blessed (and collected its 30% commission on).I prefer Android because it's relative openness means more people can and do inspect its workings to ensure it is doing what Google claims it is doing. I prefer Android because when Google decides to leave out a feature that users might want – such as tethering – the people making alternative OSes for the platform stick that feature in, and shame Google into adding it in subsequent versions.My mobile phone can track where I go. It can record my voice and image, and the voices and images of those around me. It can leak email, voicemail, texts, and passwords. In the time since I've gotten a mobile phone, each passing year has meant that I rely on my phone formorethings, and I don't expect that will change.Android and iOS will both fail their users in the years to come. Not a lot, but often enough, and dramatically enough, that it's worth ensuring that those failures are as minimal as possible.I'd like an official Android version without the DRM, with complete source code, and with generally greater transparency into the device and its ecosystem. I like the alternative Android OS, CyanogenMod, because it has many of those things. Functionally, a CyanogenMod Android phone and a stock Android phone work in much the same way, but CyanogenMod phones fail better.Our relationship to technology is this: We've jammed ourselves into the cockpits of supersonic jets that are being constantly redesigned as they hurtle around the planet, in dangerously close proximity to everyone else's supersonic jet. It's good to pay attention to how fast our jets go, and how comfortable the upholstery is, but the thing wereallyneed to keep our eyes on is what happens when they crack up, when their navigation systems go awry, and when they get a bad upgrade.When you're moving that fast, with that much at stake, failure is much more important than success.
A burst of 17 apps for your considerationFish FightCelebri-chef Hugh Fearnley Whittingstall has worked with Channel 4 on Fish Fight, an app designed to help people buy and cook sustainable fish. It includes more than 50 recipes, with Selfridges and the Marine Conservation Society also involved, while the app was developed by KEO digital.iPhoneAdobe CreatePDFAdobe has released a PDF-creating application for Android smartphones and tablets, using the same technology found in its Acrobat software. It can convert a variety of file formats to PDF, including Word, Excel, PowerPoint docs and a range of image formats.AndroidZapparAugmented reality firm Zappar has released a preview version of its app for Android, showcasing the company's technology. For now it's fairly basic in terms of features, but more features and content are promised for the coming months.AndroidRome: DK EyewitnessDorling Kindersley has released its latest travel app for iPad, and this time Rome is the city in focus. It has offline maps, lists of sights and attractions, and DK's signature cutaway illustrations for key buildings.iPadEdinburgh Festival Fringe appsThere are three official apps for this year's Edinburgh Festival Fringe: for iPhone, iPad and Android. The mobile apps offer listings (including half-price ticket discounts), and the ability to buy tickets from the phone. Meanwhile, the iPad app has the full Fringe programme, and also the daily guide publication.iPhone / iPad / AndroidMega Mall StoryBuzzed-about Japanese developer Kairosoft – of Game Dev Story fame – has released its latest iPhone game Mega Mall Story. It's all about building the biggest and best shopping centre, with hints of popular iOS game Tiny Tower.iPhoneGoings On: The New YorkerThe New Yorker magazine has launched a culture and tourism app for its hometown, offering events listings and recommendations from its team of critics, as well as restaurant reviews and audio tours.iPhoneVevo for PlayBookMusic videos service Vevo is already available for iOS, Android and Windows Phone as apps. Now it has a BlackBerry PlayBook version too, offering 720p HD streaming, TV-Out and the ability to stream videos while doing other tasks on RIM's tablet.BlackBerry PlayBookGuitarist Presents: Blues Guitar HeroesGuitarist magazine has published its latest iPad app, with a special issue focusing on the world's best blues guitarists – Muddy Waters, BB King, John Lee Hooker, Eric Clapton, Paul Kossoff and more.iPadKids Closer to NatureThis branded app from Aria Foods and the Forestry Commission offers suggestions for summer walks in woodlands, parks and forests, with location features to show the nearest places.iPhoneCard Scanner ProReaddle's latest business app is all about scanning physical business cards to store details in your iPhone's address book. It claims to be fast, scanning cards in less than three seconds, and also smart, filling in contacts fields automatically.iPhoneDora &amp; Diego's Vacation Adventure HDDora the Explorer returns to iPad with a new book-app, as she explores with her friend Diego. The app offers a mixture of storytelling and virtual stickers for young fans to place wherever they like in the scenes.iPadGame Guardian 2.0Remember the good old days of computer and console cartridges that let you hack into popular games and give yourself infinite lives? Game Guardian is that idea, but for Android games – a "hack/alteration tool" that promises to let you "modify money, HP, SP, and much more". What we're wondering is whether this can be used for freemium games too: something that could be controversial to say the least.AndroidProximitipsPublished by mobile industry veteran Buongiorno, Proximitips claims to be a "real-time, hyper-local social magazine" app for iOS. That means a mixture of social updates, tips and offers for local hotspots.iPhone / iPadCell and Cell StructureThis educational app for iPad focuses on biology, and specifically cells, their structure and function. Aimed at middle-school students, it mixes animation, videos and interactivity.iPadPlayagramPlayagram claims to be "the best Instagram experience on a tablet today" – specifically the BlackBerry PlayBook tablet. The main problem: Instagram's API is read-only, so users can only look at pictures, not upload them.BlackBerry PlayBookPressReader for PlayBookiOS and Android app PressReader offers more than 1,900 newspapers from around the world to read on tablets. Now it's available for the BlackBerry PlayBook too.BlackBerry PlayBookYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOn Twitter Acquiring Bagcheck... &gt;&gt; LukeW"If you're not familiar with Bagcheck, it's a fun way to create and share lists of the things you are passionate about using on your computer, in your kitchen, for photography, when parenting, and everything in between."200,000 BitTorrent Users Sued In The United States &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakThis seems a scaled up version of the speculative invoicing scheme mastered by ACS:Law - although these alleged filesharers apparently settle for $2,500 each on average.Fresh IPOs stumble amid market tantrum. Is the IPO window closed? &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"LinkedIn (Debut: May 19) -- $75.16, down 18 percentZipcar (Debut: April 14) -- $21.59, down 10 percentRenren (Debut: May 4) -- $6.75, down 11 percentPandora (Debut: June 15) -- $12.55, down 7 percentZillow (Debut: July 20) -- $26.17, down 7 percentFusion-io (Debut: June 9) -- $24.78, down 5 percent"Spotify Has 1.4 Million U.S. Users, 175,000 Subscribers &gt;&gt; AllThingsDA 12.5% conversion rate already. Remember how long it took to reach that in Europe?Windows Phone GM leaving Microsoft, with a rallying cry &gt;&gt; GeekWireCharlie Kindel explains more about his decision to leave Microsoft.After 21 Years: Goodbye Microsoft &gt;&gt; cek.logMicrosoft veteran Charlie Kindel walks away.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Well, that's Monday over with, now who's for a spot of Tuesday?
Faber and Touch Press released their iPad app for T.S. Eliot's The Waste Landin early June, and saw it rise up the App Store charts fuelled by acclaim from the literary and technology press, as well as featured placement from Apple. So how has it done since? Rather well, according to head of Faber Digital Henry Volans."The most pleasing thing is that we have earned out – we're in profit now," he says. "We planned for it to take a year to earn out, but in the event it happened in about six weeks. That's similar to our previous Solar System for iPad app. Some quarters of the industry had written off the concept of enhanced editions, and the chances of making that work. But we're proving that it can work, and that means a lot."For now, Faber isn't revealing sales statistics (or costs for that matter) for The Waste Land, although Volans says that Solar System has sold close to 60,000 downloads. The idea of the earn-out is important, though, in the context of the book publishing industry, where the traditional economics are based on sale-or-return distribution.To put it another way: The Waste Land and other apps have proved that book-apps can be innovative, but proving also that they can be profitable will draw attention throughout the industry.Something else that's important about both Solar System and The Waste Land is the pricing strategy. Both have maintained a $13.99 price since launch – December 2010 for the former – and have never been discounted. Indeed, in the UK the price of both book-apps actually rose recently from £7.99 to £9.99 as the result of Apple rebalancing its global pricing tiers.That means Solar System has generated around $840,000 (£514,000) of gross revenues since its launch, although 30% of that will have gone to Apple. The app will soon make new revenues for Faber when it becomes a printed book this autumn."The thing to say is that we have had almost zero complaints from people who have actually bought The Waste Land about its price, although we have seen grumbles on Twitter from people who haven't yet made the purchase," says Volans. "Everything we see suggests that when people open The Waste Land or Solar System, they feel they've got something with a heck of a lot in it that's worth the price."The Waste Land launched with a blaze of publicity and promotion, but Volans says sales have been "steadily ticking over" since. At the time of writing, it holds fifth top grossing iPad app in the UK App Store's Books category, with Solar System in seventh place.Volans says Faber and Touch Press were determined to make The Waste Land for as wide an audience as possible, without falling foul of accusations of dumbing down the poem written by one of its former editors. "If we'd just been selling to poetry buffs we'd have got nowhere," he says, pointing out that the feature providing notes to explain the text has been one of the most popular elements of the app."You're already selling your product to a niche of the population – people with iPads – so you have to be as open and general as possible. But The Waste Land proved that being open and general doesn't mean you have to be dumb, or that you can't pick something difficult. In fact, we've relished the difficulty of the poem. And that's what we want to do with the follow-up products: explaining, helping and making difficult things accessible."Volans also says that Faber's partnership with Touch Press – which previously published another landmark iPad book-app, The Elements – was a key reason for The Waste Land's success. He thinks the company has more of a publishing mindset rather than simply an app developer or technology startup."Being a publisher is about having a really close engagement with what you do and what you make. Sometimes I think most startups are quite uninterested in that stuff, but they make a platform and host other people's stuff. These two things are quite different. The number of people seriously devoting themselves to making the best kind of book-apps is actually quite slender."Volans says that Faber is now working hard on its follow-up apps, although they are still under wraps. "We've had an unbelievable amount of academics suggesting what they want next," he says. "There's a kind of informal debate going on, with some people saying it should be Ulysses, and others saying this book or that book."He also thinks that there is plenty of evolution still to come in book-apps as a format, or rather multiple formats."We're at the real start of how digital books will become different to print books," he says. "Historically, for example, a natural history guidebook looks quite similar to a novel, which is an accident of printing. Very soon those things will absolutely diverge massively. It's important to keep innovating, and as publishers we need to have a role in that."
The annualDefConhackers' convention never fails to disappoint and this year was no exception. Now 18 years old, the hack fest spans so much of the security and hacking scene that this year it even included sessions for hack grommets aged 8 to 16, and 60 turned up at the convention centre in Las Vegas."The world of apps has obvious not thought about security, yet," wrote ten-year-oldCyfiin the introduction to herDefcontalk on Saturday.Photo bynateOneon Flickr.Some rights reserved"Here is an import lesson they can learn from a Girl Scout. I'll show a new class of vulnerabilities I call TimeTraveler. By controlling time, you can do many things, such as grow pumkins instantly. This technique enables endless possibilities. I'll show you how. Wanna play a game? Let's find some zero-days! (Cuz it's fun!)"What Cyfi had discovered, when too impatient to wait 10 real-time hours to level up in a game, was a "zero-day" flaw in the operating system that let her manually advance the time setting. She had actually revealed an exploit in both Android and iOS games that researchers have confirmed as a new vulnerability. Cyfi toldCNETthat though some games would detect that kind of manual cheat, she'd found ways round that including disconnecting from Wi-Fi and making smaller time adjustments.As is standard DefCon practice, Cyfi didn't reveal which games she'd cracked, but the DefCon kids sponsor is offering a (measly) $100 prize to whichever junior hacker finds the most games with this vulnerability in 24 hours. Still, not bad pocket money.• 'Broadband over power lines' is one of a range of quirky solutions touted as helping people in rural areas get broadband access. Initial enthusiasm for the potential of BPL, anddozens of trials, have been replaced by the realisation that is is far slower than anything approaching broadband and also expensive to deploy, particularly in the US where more infrastructure is required between power lines and buildings. And now DefCon might just have hammered the final nail into the BPL coffin by revealing how data sent through BPL can be intercepted.Security researchers David 'Rel1k' Kennedy and Rob 'Kc57' Simon demonstrated that because data is sent unencrypted, 'sniffers' can be used to capture any raw data on a power line, and they can then access and control anything on a smart, automated system in a house. And that, reportedVenturebeat's Dean Takahashi, includes jamming a security alarm signal.• And the latest in the Lulzsec Twitter taunts:Anonymousabuclaimed to be tweeting from Defcon from Thursday with a slew of expletive-filled ranty messages variously claiming to have spotted 'feds' and inviting people tomeethim (or her) in theexhibition hall.Photo bysegagmanon Flickr.Some rights reserved"#FEDS #DEFCON Vendor room. Across from NO STARCH PRESS. I'm in the area. Find me and you get 0day. Do not find me and feel unsatisfied. LOL"Normal service was resumed when Sabu returned to familiar triumphalism,claimingAnonymous had brought down theSyrian government's defence site.• Defcon:"All four days just $150! Cash only at the door..."
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 6 AugustPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (92)Xbox 360 (7)PS3 (1)192 (6)Dirt 3(12+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)PC (0)113 (2)Cars 2(3+)DS (35)Wii (29)Xbox 360 (21)PS3 (15)34 (4)Just Dance 2: Extra Songs(3+)Wii (100)35 (5)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)DS (27)Wii (25)Xbox 360 (22)PS3 (15)136 (8)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (22)DS (11)Wii (11)457 (7)Harry Potter: The Deathly Hallows Part 2(12+)Xbox 360 (31)PS3 (24)Wii (22)DS (22)48 (13)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)DS (37)Wii (29)PS3 (17)Xbox 360 (14)239 (9)LA Noire(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)1210 (3)Call Of Juarez: The Cartel(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (41)311 (16)The Sims 3(12+)PC (39)DS (22)Xbox 360 (12)PS3 (12)3712 (–)Portal 2(12+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (32)PC (20)1313 (14)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (46)3114 (11)Dungeon Siege III(16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (19)PC (17)815 (10)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)PS3 (46)Xbox 360 (39)Wii (8)PC (4)3716 (–)Duke Nukem Forever(18+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (39)PC (12)517 (–)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)3618 (–)Sniper: Ghost Warrior(16+)PS3 (60)Xbox 360 (39)PC (1)1319 (15)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (45)PC (28)PS3 (27)1320 (18)Fight Night Champion(16+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)9UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
Presuming you weren't mountain biking over the Malverns or splashing around on Margate beach, what were your gaming highlights this weekend? Last Friday certainly wasn't a great one for new retail releases (unless you were rushing out to grab your copy of Paramedic Simulator), so my guess is you were sticking with old favourites, or hitting Xbox Live or PSN for downloadable goodies. It's certainly been a strong couple of weeks for XBLA titles with Bastion, From Dust and Insanely Twisted Shadow Planet all worthy of your must-buy list.I was a little busy celebrating my birthday, but I did squeeze in some time with the controversial iOS hitTiny Tower. If you've not heard about this, it's a sort of resource management/god sim, in which you build and then endlessly extend a skyscraper, filling it with shops, cafes and residential floors and attracting as many inhabitants as possible. The visuals are cute, and the relentless checklist-style gameplay is compelling, but several of my journalist friends perceive it as a thing of great evil. Like social games such as Farmville, it's not so much a game as a means of processing payments. The title is free, but players pay for extra "bux" that are used to speed up the building process and other in-game systems – and paying for stuff means you don't have to really work or plan for success.This is the economy and psychology of the "appointment game" – an emerging entertainment form designed to fit in when the gamer has time for it (essentially the entire MO of Zynga). Tiny Tower can pretty much run in the background without any player intervention, apart from restocking retail outlets, so it's designed very much for five-minute kickabouts, rather than involved two-hour sessions. Which, to some, makes it feel empty and pointless, to others makes it a jolly little diversion amid the tumult of the working day.I've enjoyed the cute visuals and the little Facebook-style posts that my tower inhabitants write, but I constantly yearn for the micro-management complexities of a classic Maxis Sim title. The defining element of any decent "god sim" is its capacity to introduce systemic complications that challenge rather than annoy the player. Tiny Tower doesn't bother to engage with that game design question, and maintains a predictable growth curve. You're not so much playing it, as occasionally patting it on the head – though, admittedly, there are ways to eek the most efficiency out of each floor, and out of every worker, that add some actual gaming into the equation.Anyway, that's what I've been doing – how about you?
A burst of 18 apps for your considerationFBI Child IDEven the FBI are making apps nowadays, although iPhone app FBI Child ID is aimed at US users – although it's available in the UK App Store too. The idea: parents use it to store photos and physical information about their children, in case they ever go missing and it needs to be emailed to the authorities.iPhoneBlackBerry App World 3.0 BetaRIM has released version 3 of its BlackBerry App World store client in beta, with a revamped home screen and new sub-categories for games and themes, to help BlackBerry users find what they're looking for.BlackBerryMTV Live &amp; LocalWe think this app may be US-focused, but it's an interesting rival for live music app Songkick. MTV's Live &amp; Local App does a similar job of pulling in gig listings, letting people see what their friends are going to, and providing ticketing purchase links. This Android app also has Foursquare check-ins, the ability to upload photos and tweet from gigs, and to recommend shows. An iPhone version is on the way with iTunes library scanning too.AndroidCher LloydShe's at the top of the charts, and now Cher Lloyd has her very own iPhone app too. It's been produced for label Sony Music using the Mobile Roadie platform, and offers news, videos, music, photos and a fan wall.iPhonePOP BeginnerAustralian show Puppetry Of The Penis has been an enduring theatre hit, and now it appears to have its own Android app. POP Beginner promises a "step by step guide to mastering our world famous dick tricks", while warning that "this app contains traces of nuts!". Indeed.AndroidFarrago AR – 3D Augmented Reality CreatorThere is a growing number of apps for browsing augmented reality content, but what about creating it? Farrago AR claims to be the latter, enabling users to arrange 2D and 3D objects within the view-screen of their iPhone camera. The description errs towards novelty aspects: "Would you like to replace your best friend's head with the head of famous Mongol Genghis Khan? Pit your little brother against an army of alien robot pirates? Turn your cat into a fire-breathing unicorn?.."iPhoneMaestro.fmAndroid music app Maestro.fm is a cloud app that lets users listen to their music from Maestro's servers, share updates with friends and find more songs to listen to.AndroidRemofyiPad app Remofy is a remote-control app for the Spotify music service, promising the ability to "control your Spotify playlists from the comfort of you couch, bed or jacuzzi". If you don't mind taking your iPad into the jacuzzi, of course.iPadAmsterdam: FHM's Rough GuideMagazine publisher Bauer Media has released its latest travel guide apps for men's mag FHM. The Amsterdam app for iPhone offers a mixture of tourist hotspots and venues, an itinerary constructor and offline mapping to save on roaming data. A Barcelona version has also just launched.iPhoneKids Company MouthOffUK studio ustwo has re-released its branded MouthOff app for Camila Batmanghelidjh's charity Kids Company. As with other editions, it lets users replace their own mouth with a monster mouth – in this case, those mouths are created by 7-10 year-old London children.iPhoneG.I. JoeParamount Digital Entertainment has launched its latest enhanced movie app, for G.I. Joe, on Windows Phone. Users can watch the film, clip and share scenes, and look at additional content around it.Windows PhoneSecretLondoniPhone app SecretLondon aims to spotlight some of the more interesting and/or unheralded hotspots in London, with more than 50 in this initial release, and the ability for users to recommend their own secrets, with photos, and earn a tenner for each one that's accepted.iPhoneMarriott InternationalHotel chain Marriott has released its official iPhone app, with a mixture of bookings, hotel information, city guides and the Marriott Rewards scheme.iPhoneDynamic English Lessons – Phrasal VerbsThe latest app targeting people learning English as a foreign language is Dynamic English Lessons, which turns the process of learning phrasal verbs into a game.iPhoneMobitee GPS GolfWindows Phone app Mobitee claims to be "the best GPS assistant, scorecard keeper, distance calculator, rangefinder and virtual coach, all rolled into one". A golfing companion app for Microsoft-powered smartphones, in other words.Windows PhonePekay's Little Author for iPadDeveloper Good Grief has released Pekay's Little Author for iPad, which aims to get children and their parents creating their own digital storybooks, choosing characters and items, adding text and recording their voices. The results can also be printed out or displayed on a TV.iPadTextpertWaiting for the excellent IA Writer word-processing app to leap from iPad to iPhone? Us too. But Textpert might plug the gap. It's a universal iOS plain text editor, but the key attraction is that it looks like it works well on the iPhone as well as Apple's tablet.iPhone / iPadGiant TroubleGiant Trouble is an iPad book-app telling the tale of Finn McCoul – "the largest giant in Ireland" – produced by the same company that made cartoon show The Raccoons.iPadYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamComcast Announces $10 Web Access For Low-Income Families &gt;&gt; NPRFamilies also get a voucher entitling them to a new computer for $149.99.If you want to see more jobs created - change patent laws &gt;&gt; blog maverick"Every technology company I have is getting hit by patent lawsuits that are the biggest bunch of bullshit ever. Every week it seems like a new one comes up. Between having to pay our lawyers a lot of money to review each, to increasing insurance rates and settlement costs because we can't afford to pay to fight the nonsense, it's an enormous expense. So much so that money that would have gone to new hires to improve and sell the product has to be saved to pay to deal with this bullshit."Anonymous attacks US sheriffs' websites &gt;&gt; The Guardian"The group of hackers known as Anonymous says it has hacked into about 70 mostly rural law enforcement websites in the US, a data breach that at least one local police chief said leaked sensitive information about an ongoing investigation."Android could allow mobile ad or phishing pop-ups &gt;&gt; CNET News"Researchers have discovered what they say is a design flaw in Android that could be used by criminals to steal data via phishing or by advertisers to bring annoying pop-up ads to phones."Social Developers Hopeful About Google+ Platform Potential &gt;&gt; Inside Social Games"...we've been surprised by the optimism among companies we're talking to, and they're not just having wishful thoughts. The specific reasons: Google+ is a respectable product, it's grown quickly, there are clear social communication channels like Streams where developers could promote discovery and engagement, and the transaction fee is likely to be quite low."The Growing Portrait Of Google As A Big, Scary, Expanding Everywhere Copy Monster &gt;&gt; Search Engine Land"Twice this year, Google's been fairly frank and vocal about something competitors have done that it feels is unfair. Twice, I've watched the technosphere largely react by beating the company over the head with a "You do whatever you want and copy everyone else" stick. Does that measure up, and more so than for Google than other companies?"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
