A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDear Marc Andreessen &gt;&gt; Alex PayneFormer Twitter-staffer and occasional angel investor Payne comes not to praise Andreessen:I grew up using your work. Thanks to one of my parents being employed by a university, I got to use Mosaic to browse the early Web way before most people had even heard of it. My first software development internship was a summer spent using beta versions of Netscape technologies – what was then "LiveScript" and "dynamic HTML" – to sketch new interface elements for a protean web collaboration app. I rooted for Netscape when Microsoft came barging in to the browser market. When you started A16Z a few years ago I was excited to see what you'd invest in.You've got a big audience of admirers. I've counted myself amongst them, but lately you've made it a challenge. I just can't square with the way of looking at our industry, political economy, and the future laid out inyour latest post.You seem to think everyone's worried about robots. But what everyone's worried about is you, Marc.Clayton Christensen one day, Marc Andreessen the next..Bitcoin may be altered after fears of manipulation by powerful players &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewTom Simonite:postdoctoral researcher Ittay Eyal, told MIT Technology Review that the Bitcoin protocol should be updated to prevent mining pools from being able to amass so much computing power.Discussion about how to do that has begun, but no easy-to-implement front-runners have yet emerged. There is also little precedent for such a tweak to Bitcoin's design, Eyal says. "A change like that has to be done extremely carefully," he says. "At its core right now Bitcoin mostly works according to Satoshi Nakamoto's original paper."The process is complicated by the fact that any such change could potentially invalidate much of the specialized hardware that bitcoin miners have built up over the years and that powers the processing and verification of bitcoin transactions (see "Custom Chips Could Be the Shovels in a Bitcoin Gold Rush"). "That industry is the reason that Bitcoin is secure, and so it needs to be kept happy," says Eyal.Microsoft's Surface Pro 3 is better than Apple's MacBook Air - here's 5 reasons why &gt;&gt; BetanewsBrian Fagioli:The Microsoft Surface Pro 3 and Apple MacBook Air are great balances between portability, power and cost. Yes, there are more powerful computers, but they are often very heavy and have terrible battery life. Portability cannot be underestimated when it comes to a laptop's value and both of these machines are super thin and light. Last month, my colleague Mihaitaponderedthe question of which was better based on specs alone. However, as someone who has used both, hands-on, for long periods of time, I am ready to definitively tell you that the Surface Pro 3 is better. Do you agree?One question: if the Surface Pro 3 is a tablet - and Fagioli insists so - where is its array of truly tablet-focussed apps (besides those for cartoonists)? Does it have an array of touchscreen-focussed games, and apps designed with tablet use in mind? (Thanks @EasilyLead for the link.)Microsoft's Surface Pro 3 isn't for everybody &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comFarhad Manjoo:For the better part of a month, I've been trying to replace the laptop that I use for my daily work, an Apple MacBook Pro, with Microsoft's new tablet computer, the Surface Pro 3. I say "trying" because that's what it has felt like; this is a machine that I've had to put a lot of work into adjusting to, in the hope that, at some point, I'd get used to it and see some kind of payoff.In the end, I didn't see that payoff. My time with Microsoft's new tablet computer began with a feeling of minor annoyance and eventually leveled off into a sense of settling for something less than ideal. I never felt fully at ease with the Surface Pro 3, and I'm typing this review on the MacBook.But don't let my experience put you off from trying the Surface Pro 3. In fact, I encourage you to think of this review as something like a George Costanza breakup: Dear Surface Pro 3 — we're not right for each other, but it's not you, it's me.Well, specifically, it's the keyboard and trackpad. And a couple of other things.Pantech survival hinges on wireless operators &gt;&gt; Korea TimesThe fate of debt-ridden Pantech hinges on the country's three telecom carriers agreeing to turn their accounts receivable into equity capital in the handset maker.If they do not, the nation's smallest smartphone maker will either be sold to a foreign company or go bankrupt.The Korea Development Bank (KDB), the key creditor bank of Pantech, has asked SK Telecom, KT and LG Uplus to take part in a capital-increase plan to addressing the debt of the handset maker.The three have a total of 180 billion won [about $175m] in accounts receivable.Squeezed between LG (whose phone business has also been lossmaking, but is part of a much bigger business) and Samsung.Glass At Work &gt;&gt; Google DevelopersGlass Certified Partners are authorized by Glass at Work for delivering enterprise solutions for Glass. They are also eligible for co-branding and listing on the Glass at Work website.APX ("provides workers with hands-free, real-time access to enterprise data"), Augmedix ("pushing and pulling information to and from the Electronic Health Record"), CrowdOptic ("detects significant broadcast events from mobile and wearable devices"), GuidiGo ("inspire people to connect with art and culture through a compelling mobile storytelling experience"), Wearable Intelligence ("Glassware for energy, manufacturing, healthcare, and more").Increasingly feels like Glass will be a business-to-business product - rather like ruggedised computers.Google faces fresh antitrust complaint in Europe &gt;&gt; WSJGoogle is facing fresh accusations of anticompetitive behaviour in Europe over its Android operating system for mobile phones, even as the web giant struggles to overcome separate concerns over its dominance of online search.In a complaint it said it filed with European Union regulators on Monday, Aptoide — a Portuguese company that runs a marketplace for mobile applications, or app store — claims that Google is abusing its dominant position in the smartphone market to push users away from app stores that rival its own, Google Play."We are struggling to grow, even to survive, in the face of Google systematically setting up obstacles for users to install third-party app stores in the Android platform and blocking competition in their Google Play store," said Paulo Trezentos, Aptoide's co-founder and CEO.The Lisbon-based company, which says it has six million unique monthly users, said it planned to "join forces with other independent app stores to forge a common front" against Google.Being dominant carries risks, it seems. The Aptoide blogpost is titled "Enough is enough: when Google Evil reaches Android App Stores".E-Commerce gives a lift to China's rural farmers &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThe online grocery, officially known as the Young Village Officials' Farm, has customers in Beijing, Shanghai, and elsewhere, and about 10,000 followers on Weibo. Twenty-seven farms now fill orders, including that of Li and Cheng, who sell dried radishes. Customers place orders online, and Zhang visits farmers to inform them of the order and work out logistics and shipping. Zhang says the reason for their success is a renewed interest in local farming traditions—which she documents in lush photographs on social media—and strict quality control. Her team inspects harvests and literally throws out bad apples. "We prefer to work with farmers in mountainous regions with better natural environments," she says.In an area where the average monthly household income is only about 600 yuan ($99), farmers selling produce through the online grocery store can increase their income by a third, according to Zhang. The store's most popular items include dried bamboo shoots, firm tofu, and jars of honey. Many of the farmers can't read and have never used the Internet. But they can still reap the economic benefits of e-commerce with the help of younger villagers who "use the Internet on our phones," says 20-year-old Mu Er, general manager of an inn in Bishan. Zhang sends Weibo postings from her Xiaomi smartphone.This is the true benefit of smartphones and their internet access: bringing economic opportunity to people and places which would have been too remote and too poor for PCs and wired access.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Amazon entered the smartphone war on Wednesday with the Fire Phone, a feature-packed device built for shopping and aimed at turning up the heat on rivals Apple and Google.The announcement at a press conference in Seattle came after a lengthy PR tease that involved sending a children’s storybook to reporters and a video of people fawning over an unseen device. &quot;We at Amazon like to do things a little different,” said Amazon founder Jeff Bezos.The Fire Phone will pitch Amazon into a fight dominated by Apple and Samsung, which dominate the smartphone market. But the company is clearly taking aim at Google, too, as the search giant tries to build its own media and music business through Google Play.Amazon has struck deals with Netflix, HBO Go and Hulu Plus to stream movies and TV on the device, and Bezos made clear he was courting the millions of people who use its Amazon Prime service to get music and films to encourage them to swap devices.The new device comes with a 4.7in screen, a 13 megapixel rear camera with an f2.0 lens that Bezos said was better able to take photos in low lighting than its competitors from Apple and Samsung. The phone will come with free, unlimited photo storage via Amazon Cloud Drive. It will also come with what Bezos promised would be “tangle-free” headphones.Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos shows off the 3D features of his company's new Fire smartphone at a news conference in Seattle. Photograph: Jason Redmond/ReutersBezos also revealed the device will use its four cameras to show images in “dynamic perspective” – technology that will render maps, pictures of clothing and other images with a 3D perspective. The cameras will also allow the phone to recognise head gestures from users to change the display. The phone is equipped with a Quad-core 2.2GHz processor, Adreno 330 graphics and 2GB of RAM.Amazon is offering the Fire for $199 with a two-year contract from AT&amp;T, in line with what the carrier charges for the iPhone 5S. UK pricing was not immediately available. The contract will also include 12 months of Amazon Prime, its $99 paid membership service which offers free two-day shipping and access to music, movies and TV shows from the retailer’s streaming video service.Bezos announced that the phone would run a program called Firefly that recognise items including songs, books, groceries and then enable you to buy them from Amazon. The service will also recognise restaurant signs, wine labels, paintings, linking users to sites giving more information about them.“Firefly recognizes a hundred million different items in real-world situations,&quot; Bezos said.Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos shows off the app grid on the new Amazon Fire phone at a launch event in Seattle. Photograph: Ted S Warren/APBezos spent the early part of the presentation talking about Amazon Prime, its paid-membership service which offers free two-day shipping and access to music, movies and TV shows from the retailer’s streaming video service.The Amazon boss is clearly hoping he can tempt those Prime customers to switch to Fire in what has become a ferociously competitive and difficult market. Facebook, Google and Microsoft have all faced major setbacks with smartphones.Facebook released a phone with HTC in April 2013, but the device was a flop. Google’s Android operating system has been a huge success but the search giant&apos;s attempts to launch its own phones have been disastrous. Microsoft’s Windows phone operating system accounts for less than 3% of the world smartphone market.There will be 1.76bn smartphone users worldwide in 2014, according to eMarketer, but just two manufacturers, Apple and Samsung, have managed to make profits.&quot;An Amazon smartphone would be less about profiting from device sales per se, and more a way to pocket a larger share of multiple revenue streams, such as mobile retail sales, mobile content and advertising,&quot; said Cathy Boyle, senior analyst, mobile, at eMarketer.The smartphone market will be far more difficult for Amazon to dominate than the tablet market or even the ebook sector, where the original Kindle holds sway. The US and UK markets are rapidly approaching saturation point: about 70% of all mobile phone owners in both countries have a smartphone.Bezos&apos;s buyers are likely to be Amazon customers already; it has 244m active customer accounts worldwide, but as half its revenues come from north America, many of those are probably in the US. His prime targets will be people who are also already on AT&amp;T (in the US) or Vodafone (in the UK), and already smartphone owners.A handout image of the new Amazon Fire phone. Photograph: Amazon/EPAHowever, Amazon will find it hard to challenge Apple or Samsung, which have the highest customer loyalty among phone brands, and dominate the US and UK. Instead, its best chance of finding converts initially will be owners of weakening Android brands such as HTC, LG or Motorola, which are losing users in the US.Additional reporting by Charles Arthur
Twitter&apos;s 140 characters are so passe. The new hotness on the tech scene – for at least the next five minutes – is zero-character communication.&quot;Yo&quot; is gloriously simple, and simply stupid. LikeChindōgu, the Japanese art of inventing perfectly useless gadgets that nonetheless look like they should solve a common problem, it hovers the fine line between a fantastic, &quot;I wish I&apos;d thought of that&quot; idea, and one which should have been laughed out of the room before anyone even bothered to write it down.The way it works is: You choose a username. You &quot;add friends&quot; by typing in their usernames. Then, when you want to message them, you hit their name. It sends a &quot;Yo&quot;. If they hit your name, they send a Yo back.That&apos;s it.A received Yo just shows up as that friend&apos;s name rising to the top of the friend list, while a swipe right tells you how long it&apos;s been since they sent it. A swipe left lets you delete a Yo, or block a friend entirely, if they&apos;re sending … I don&apos;t know, malicious Yos? I can&apos;t work out how one could send a malicious Yo, but this is the internet, so someone will find a way.Beyond that, there&apos;s a count of how many Yos you have received, and the ability to share your Yo name on other platforms including Twitter and Facebook, but this is already more thought than the app really deserves.Somewhat amazingly, the project isn&apos;t a joke (or at least, not fully a joke).The team are hiringan Android engineer, and a back-end engineer, and has made its API available,with ideas for what other companies could do with the service:A blog can Yo the readers whenever a new post is published. Imagine getting aYo From PRODUCTHUNT.An online store can Yo its customers whenever a new product is offered. Imagine getting aYo From JENNASHOPIFY.A football club can Yo the fans whenever the team scores a touchdown. Imagine getting aYo From THE49ERS.An ice-cream truck can Yo the kids when it’s around the corner.… Imagine getting aYo From THEICECREAMTRUCK.But soon the joke will wear off, and already, some are looking to the future for Yo:&#39;Yo&#39; needs to sell right this fucking second.&mdash; Joseph Weisenthal (@TheStalwart)June 18, 2014Facebook should buy Yo for $2 billion.&mdash; Jay Yarow (@jyarow)June 18, 2014uninstalling yo&mdash; John Herrman (@jwherrman)June 18, 2014Until then: Yo.
Apple has discounted and promoted a group of books from publisher Hachette Book, which is currently indispute with Amazon over ebook pricing.Every one of the 26 discounted ebook pre-orders being offered by Apple for “$9.99 or less” are scheduled to be published by Hachette, including JK Rowling’s new book The Silkworm and a book from best-selling American author James Patterson.Hachette pre-orders on Apple's iBooks store.Pre-orders propel books up the bestseller chartsAmazon has removed pre-orders on Hachette books in the US and has reduced its order volume with the publisher because of a dispute over ebook pricing and how to split the generous profit margins publishers can make on ebooks, which in some cases can be as much as 75% of the cover price.Pre-orders are important to publishers as they are a major factor in propelling new books up the bestseller charts boosting the chances of creating another smash hit.Amazon used similar tactics in its row with another one of the world’s largest publishers Macmillan in 2010.Price-fixingThe ebook price-fixing case against Apple and the big five publishers – Hachette, HarperCollins, Macmillan, Penguin and Simon &amp; Schuster – was the result of an alliance between the publishers and Apple after Amazon turned the screws on Macmillan.Apple’s move to reduce prices and promote pre-orders of incoming Hachette books is likely a move to capitalise on Amazon’s removal of the books from its store.Applesettled is lawsuit over ebook price-fixingon Monday following Hachette’s lead, which settled almost immediately in its court case with the US department of justice.•Amazon&apos;s war with Hachette intensifies
BlackBerry has announced it will license 240,000 Android applications from Amazon - in a move that may presage a downgrading of its internal developer relations efforts for its stuttering BB10 software.The companyannouncedthe deal on Wednesday, saying in a blogpost that &quot;We&apos;ve heard your appeals for access to more applications for your BlackBerry 10 device [sic] and we are delivering.&quot; The move will give users access to popular apps such as Groupon, Netflix, Pinterest, Candy Crush Saga and Minecraft, all available through a direct download, the company said.But the company has seen a number of key departures from its app developer relations division, just as analysts expect more losses in its forthcoming first-quarter financial results and slow handset sales in its first-quarter results to be announced on Thursday.Speaking to Fox Business, BlackBerry chief executive John Chen said that he would be encouraging BlackBerry consumer app developers to focus instead on writing for Amazon&apos;s Android app store. &quot;We have about 130,00 apps on BlackBerry world. Amazon have about 240,000 and they&apos;re getting into the phone world. We want to focus on enterprise, highly secure applications. Our partnership through Amazon will provide the consumer side.&quot;Chen has been reducing the emphasis on consumer apps for some time. The former head of the developer relations division, Alec Saunders, has been moved to a position with QNX Software Systems - owned by BlackBerry - where he is working on the &quot;internet of things&quot;, according tohis LinkedIn profile page. His title as &quot;Vice President Developer Relations and Ecosystem Development&quot; is relegated to a past achievement. Others who have worked in the developer relations division, including some involved in contact with public-facing initiatives, have either been moved to other jobs or left the company in the past few months.Poor relations?Developer relations are important for smartphone companies because their staff encourage outside programmers to write apps that enhance the value of the device. For Apple and Google, the creation of a huge &quot;ecosystem&quot; of developers who have written millions of apps, and who earn billions of pounds from phone owners&apos; purchases.Rumours on one BlackBerry fan site previouslysuggestedthat all the division&apos;s jobs could be affected as the iconic Canadian smartphone company tries to steer itself back to profitability, and stem defections among both consumers and business customers.The deal with Amazon could be key in retaining consumers who want access to popular apps. One of BlackBerry&apos;s key efforts in its new BB10 software has been to enable its newest range of smartphones to run Android apps. But the app developers still had to make some changes for them to work on the BlackBerry handsets, and owners faced some challenges installing them. BlackBerry says that the Amazon deal will mean owners can download the apps directly from Amazon&apos;s app store.The announcement contains no hints about the effect on the internal developer relations team, nor what the deal means for third-party developers who have been working to support the platform.In a statement, BlackBerry told the Guardian that there was “nothing new&quot; to report about its developer division and that &quot;any headcount reductions we are making have already been disclosed previously. Alec Saunders continues to be employed at BlackBerry, he is the Head of the Internet of Things, QNX Cloud.” The company did not respond to questions about the future role of the developer relations division.Despite Saunders&apos; best efforts when in charge of attracting outside developers, BlackBerry has struggled to build a strong ecosystem around its new BB10 operating system, launched in January 2013 with the Z10 smartphone. The discovery thata third of the apps on the BlackBerry app store were written by one company, Hong Kong-based S4BB, suggested that there was less broad interest than seemed the case from the raw number of apps in the store.Senior members of the development team and of its social media team have either shifted jobs or left the company. Alex Kinsella, formerly a senior product manager and social media manager at the company,left in January 2014after a five-year career, while Victoria Berry, formerly the &quot;director of ecosystem PR&quot; - and so important in attracting developer interest through media relations -leftin April after nearly 10 years at the company.Patrick Kosiol, chief executive of the S4BB, told the Guardian before the Amazon announcement: &quot;I am seeing BlackBerry in constant restructuring over the past years … there has always been a quite vivid rotation of personnel within the developer relation folks.&quot;BlackBerry has seen its fortunes plummet in the past two years as buyers have turned away from its keyboard-based devices towards Apple&apos;s iPhone and others using Google&apos;s Android mobile software. In its past two financial years since March 2012 it ha recorded net losses of $6.5bn, cut thousands of jobs, and seen handset shipments drop from a peak of 14.9m per quarter in December 2010 to just 1.3m in the quarter to the start of March 2014.Chen, BlackBerry&apos;s chief executive brought in to effect a rescue of the company last September after an abortive attempt to find a buyer or organise a leveraged buyout, has been focussing on cutting costs and concentrating on the core business, of government and large business users who demand high security.In its fourth quarter to the end of February, BlackBerry recorded revenues of just $976m - its smallest since the same period in 2007 - and shipped just 1.3m phones, and recorded net losses of $423m.With its first-quarter results due on Thursday, analysts expect it to report revenues of $970m, and a loss of about $200m.•BlackBerry may exit handset business if it can&apos;t make profit, says CEO
• Warning: this article contains descriptions of graphic horror and violenceMortal Kombat has always been the Death Metal outsider of the arcade fighting genre. The Street Fighter series offered outlandish characters, but also meticulous balance and finely crafted special moves. Tekken boasted drum-tight combos and style variation. Dead Or Alive provided rock-paper-scissors dynamics and a boatload of sleaze.Mortal Kombat? Well, MK offered frenetic, twitchy gameplay, backed up with gallons of blood, guts and brain matter. Through its infamous &quot;Fatalities&quot; option, which provides a victorious combatant with one last finishing move, it&apos;s the only game where you can rip an opponent’s still-beating heart out of their chest.Current developer NetherRealms Studios understands that gore is as an integral part of this franchise, as crudely essential as Big Macs are to MacDonalds. So for a start, the team has brought back the ridiculous &quot;too-much-information&quot; camera which shows x-ray cinematic footage of major impacts, including cracking vertebrae and hemorrhaging major organs. Added to this are some of the most violent fighting animations ever committed to screen.In the E3 demo, skulls split, spines snap, guts flow. In one set piece move, series stalwart Sub Zero punches a hole in rival Scorpion’s stomach, pulls out his lower intestines, freezes them into the shape of a spear and shoves them his opponent&apos;s eye. By way of return, Scorpion’s finishing maneuver on Sub Zero involves shooting a fireball through his stomach, then cutting his face off with a katana. And it&apos;s not finished there. As Sub Zero&apos;s lifeless body sinks to the floor, his frontal lobes glisten horribly and his tongue jerks and lolls spasmodically. If you want blood, you got it.But it’s not all about the gore. NetherRealms has tweaked and augmented each fighter’s move set substantially. Players can now bounce off environmental objects in each arena (and even use parts of them as weapons) and each combatant now has three variations on their standard move sets. These essentially offer extra sets of combat moves to layer on top of the core repertoire.Sub Zero, for example has Grandmaster, Cryomancer and Unbreakable variations. Grandmaster allows players to create an ice double to use as a decoy or a weapon. Cryomancer lets them create ice weapons, such as daggers or spears. Unbreakable is Sub Zero’s defensive mode, enabling players to parry and counter more effectively.The new characters also offer some interesting variations on the MK experience. D&apos;Vorah is an insectoid warrior who can fire poison venom or just sling swarms of man-eating bees. The star though is Ferra/Torr, a bizarre partnership consisting of a hulking beast man (Torr) and a diminutive warrior girl (Ferra) who sits on her companion&apos;s shoulders, occassionally clambering down to delivery stabbing dagger blows. Mortal Kombat may be ridiculous but it has never lacked feverish imagination.This oft misunderstood and always controversial series began in bones, blood and viscera, but over the years it has evolved into a rather compelling and deep arcade fighter. It certainly hasn’t toned down its edge – and its adolescent torture porn horror will disgust many viewers. However, Mortal Kombat X does genuinely promise more reasons to play than simply the guilty thrill of ripping an opponent’s torso in half.• Mortal Kombat X will be released on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One in 2015•Mortal Kombat review
Evolve has … well, evolved since we last experienced it this year. The basic premise of Turtle Rock&apos;s sci-fi stalk-&apos;em-up hasn’t changed: four players controlling ridiculously well-armed hunters try to bag an alien beast controlled by a fifth participant. However, the developer has tossed a few new characters into the mix and tweaked some of the content.The human newcomers adhere to the basic class templates: Hunter, Assault, Support and Medic. Their abilities have been slightly kinked, though, so they play differently to the variants unveiled earlier this year.For example, the new medic is utterly useless at healing other players on the fly, but he can resurrect them if they’re dead. The new Support class can’t call down an air-strike, but he can pull his own head off and use it as a UAV. Yes, you read that correctly. The new Assault class packs a Gatling gun, a Flame Thrower and a personal shield, while the new Tracker has an alien dog called Daisy who can sniff out prey for the hunters. None of these classes ups the ante significantly for the Hunter players; the balance in Evolve is meticulously maintained.This goes for the monster too. While the creature in question we were allowed to control is the same beast from the original preview – the fire-spewing Goliath – Turtle Rock has tweaked a couple of load-out aspects. The player controlling the monster still gets a perk – consuming NPCs faster and a melee attack – but they can now opt out of Evolution powers they may never use. Instead of having to fill out all of Goliath’s abilities – hurling rocks, fire belching and the like – they can choose to boost one or two abilities to frightening levels.The map has been tweaked, too; Turtle Rock has added more nasty beasts to the terrain and there are even flocks of birds, which, when approached, can give away the position of the predators and prey.The most appealing aspect of this tense game of cat and mouse is that victory really can swing either way. It all boils down to knowing the terrain and, in the case of the Hunters, working as a team. Similarly to Turtle Rock&apos;s zombie classic Left 4 Dead, Evolve already looks like a shooter that players grow into rather than dominate from the get-go. This is a studio that cares about depth, pacing and balance, however games evolve, these things always matter.•Evolve is released on PC, PS4 and Xbox One in October•Evolve preview:Left 4 Dead meets Shadow of the Colossus
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski, we discuss the news thata senior UK security official has publicly said mass surveillance of social media is legal. Aleks is joined by the Guardian's legal affairs correspondentOwen Bowcottto discuss the legal implications.Aleks is also joined by the Guardian tech team,Charles Arthur,Alex HernandSamuel Gibbsto discuss the dawn of a new era in the World Cup tournament, with goal line technology used for the first time this week. Meanwhile, as London's Technology Week kicks off, tech grandeeBen Horowitz, one of the founders of web browser Netscape, talks about the changing nature of the technology business and where the UK is getting it right.
Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk worries about a &quot;Terminator&quot; scenario arising from research into artificial intelligence.Musk was an early investor in AI firm DeepMind, which was later acquired by Google, and in March made an investment San Francisco-based Vicarious, another company working to improve machine intelligence.Speaking to US news channel CNBC, Musk explained that his investments were, &quot;not from the standpoint of actually trying to make any investment return… I like to just keep an eye on what&apos;s going on with artificial intelligence. I think there is potentially a dangerous outcome there.&quot;&quot;There have been movies about this, you know, like Terminator,&quot; Musk continued. &quot;There are some scary outcomes. And we should try to make sure the outcomes are good, not bad.&quot;Musk made his fortune as the co-founder of X.com, one of the companies which would eventually become PayPal, and in June 2002 co-founded SpaceX, which would go on to become the first private company to put a satellite into earth orbit. He is now best-known as the co-founder of Tesla Motors, the electronic car manufacturer.In March 2014, he invested in Vicarious, alongside Mark Zuckerberg and actor Ashton Kutcher. The company&apos;s aim is to build a neural network capable of replicating the part of the brain that controls vision, body movement and language. It&apos;s ultimate aim is to build a &quot;computer that thinks like a person,” according to the company&apos;s co-founder Scott Phoenix says, “except it doesn’t have to eat or sleep&quot;.•Elon Musk unveils Dragon V2 spacecraft for seven astronauts
As the US continues to take a hard line with China over alleged criminal hacking of American companies, UK cyber investigators have quietly forged relationships with their counterparts in China, the Guardian has learned.Over the past six months, at least two meetings between the UK National Crime Agency (NCA) and Chinese law enforcement have taken place, while “24/7 contact points” have been established to help fight cybercrime taking place between the two nations.Yet at the same time, attacks emanating from China have been causing pain among public and private organisations in the UK, security experts have claimed, without any legal action taken.Researchers from the US and the UK with knowledge of state-sponsored cyber espionage emanating from China told the Guardian the threat facing British business is as severe as it is for American companies.A report released in Junealleged a unit within the Chinese People’s Liberation Army had targeted satellite companiesacross the US and Europe. Sources familiar with the hackers’ activities said the group had targeted UK businesses too.But rather than show signs of taking action against such activity, the NCA has encouraged collaboration between the UK and China on digital crime.As part of this, Andy Archibald, deputy director of the agency&apos;s National Cyber Crime Unit, led a delegation of UK experts to Xiamen in Southern China for a seminar with Chinese cyber law enforcement agencies in February.This was the first time any foreign law enforcement agency had visited the Ministry of Public Security’s centre of cyber expertise, the NCA said. During the visit, the UK delegation sought to establish ties that would help the forces collaborate and share threat information.In May, members of Chinese law enforcement visited the NCA, but the London-based agency wouldn’t say what the meeting entailed.Though he wouldn’t comment on whether the UK would ever file charges against individuals as the US did, Archibald told the Guardian the NCA did have to find the right balance between working with both American and Chinese law enforcement.“We know the risks, we know the sensitivities but there are cases we can work together on. And that&apos;s what we&apos;re doing at the moment,” Archibald said.The US, which has worked closely with the UK on cybercrime investigations including the recenttakedown of the Cryptolocker malware, has responded far more aggressively to China’s alleged cyber espionage campaigns. In May, itcharged five members of the People’s Liberation Army in Chinawith attacks on six American businesses.That move led to the dismantling of a working group that was supposed to foster collaboration between Chinese and US officials fighting digital crimes.CrowdStrike, the company that detailed the latest alleged PLA attacks, has called on the UK government and other nations to follow the US in taking a stand.“It&apos;s really a global responsibility ... it&apos;s important for us to tell them you can&apos;t keep doing this,” said Adam Meyers, director of intelligence at CrowdStrike. “China has created a factory of intellectual property theft. It is so endemic across the threat space.”Meyers said the aviation and aerospace industries were two of the most targeted industries in the UK when it came to Chinese attacks.The Chinese Embassy in London had not responded to requests for comment at the time of publication. China has repeatedly denied claims it carries out cyber espionage by hacking foreign companies.Despite claims around Chinese-sponsored cyber espionage on UK companies, few believe the government or its law enforcement agencies will take action. That’s largely because the UK is attempting to forge close trade ties with China, said Chris Ogden, lecturer in Asian security at the University of St Andrews.“The major difference concerning any UK response to such allegations rests on the UK government&apos;s main goal of increasing Sino-UK trade levels, which are relatively much smaller than US-China levels,” Ogden said.“Working closely with Beijing is a diplomatic imperative for London, and heightening trade ties will remain as the key strategy, especially in light of a potential UK withdrawal from the EU in the near future. This strategy must not alienate Chinese leaders and companies, and therefore precludes the use of charges or blockades concerning allegations of hacking.“This is the UK&apos;s short-to-medium term aim, whilst the US&apos;s short-to-medium term aim is to counter a rising China and ensure Washington&apos;s global primacy.”For the UK, this strategy is paying off. Bilateral trade is at record levels, rising 8% overall in 2013. This week, Premier Li Keqiang has been welcomed to Downing Street by the prime minister, David Cameron, for the annual UK-China summit. Late last year,Cameron called for more openness from Chinaon cyber issues.As UK businesses can’t rely on action for law enforcement, they are simply taking matters into their own hands and implementing measures to block attacks from China, said the security consultant and professor at Nottingham Trent University John Walker.“A lot of the big organisations are a lot more savvy than law enforcement, they probably know a lot more than the NCA and they are doing their own thing, putting implementations in place to save themselves,” added Walker, who accused the Chinese of sponsoring attacks on the UK and the US back in 2008.Yet in response to improved security among British business and the increased focus on China’s activities, the hackers have simply tweaked their modus operandi to be “noticeably more stealthy”, added Stuart McKenzie, senior investigative consultant at Context Information Security.“During this period there has been a change in government in China and increasing political pressure from western governments to stop China conducting cyber espionage. It may even have been the political embarrassment for those in charge of the espionage programmes that their cyber campaigns were regularly hitting the front page of the press,” McKenzie said.“What we do know though is that we are still seeing targeting of nearly every sector and that the attacker tools are evolving and attempting to evade detection.”•Is the global cost of cybercrime really £266bn a year? No it isn&apos;t
The world’s biggest video game collection containing over 11,000 games has been sold for $750,000 at auction.The collection, whose size was certified by the Guinness Book of World Records, had a starting price of just $1. But 11 days and 56 bids later the price had risen to $750,250 after the seller, Michael Thomasson from Hamburg, New York, was forced to sell because of family commitments.“I simply have an immediate family and extended family that have needs that need to be addressed,” explained Thomasson inhis GameGavel listing. “While I do not wish to part with these games, I have responsibilities that I have made to others and this action is how I will help meet them.”The 11,000-plus collection, which Thomasson started in 1982, includes complete US sets of games for 22 consoles, including the Sega Dreamcast, Atari Jaguar, 3DO and Nintendo Virtual Boy, as well as near complete collections for 14 other consoles and thousands of other games for 68 further gaming machines.Two games bought every single day for 20 yearsGuinness Book of World Record certification video of the world's biggest video game collection.The Guinness Book of World Records certified the collection at 10,607 games in 2012 as the world’s largest, accrued at a rate of around two games a day for 20 years. Since then, Thomasson – a former independent game shop owner – has added over 400 to the pile.“Approximately a quarter of the collection is new factory sealed! There are a whopping 2600+ factory shrink-wrapped titles in the collection! Over 8,300 are complete with box and manual,” said Thomasson.Bidding warThe winning bidder, known only as peeps_10091970, was locked in a bidding war with another buyer, catch123, on the GameGavel site, driving the price up from $150,000 eventually winning with a $750,250 bid on Wednesday 11 June.Whether $750,000 is enough for a collection of this size and completeness is up for debate, but while Thomasson is sad to part with his enormous collection, he is certain this isn’t the end of his game collecting.“I’ve sold my collection many times in the past and still managed to capture Guinness’ attention, and it is entirely possible that I may again,” he said.•E3 2014: Metal Gear Solid the Phantom Pain preview•E3 2014: Rainbow Six Siege preview•E3 2014: Batman Arkham Knight preview•E3 2014 review: games and Nintendo make a come back
Last year, I found out very late that I couldn&apos;t go to the E3 video game exhibition in Los Angeles. So over the space of three weeks, I got together with games producer Georg Backer and bar owner James Dance, and we created our own indie festival called E-Too. It was chaotic and exhausting, but a lot of fun. Now we&apos;re doing it again.Radius Festival is a slightly more daunting proposition. It&apos;s bigger, it&apos;s more ambitious, and we have a lovely new venue, The White Space, near Leicester Square. We&apos;ve also invited more developers – in fact, we&apos;ll be showing 60 games over the three-day event, some of them by very well known developers like Dutch studio Vlambeer (responsible for hits like Ridiculous Fishing and Super Crate Box) and Bafta winner Mike Bithell, some of them are by very small teams, making their public debuts, just getting started in the industry.This was always the plan with Radius and E-Too – to mix up different developers, with different approaches and different ideas; to create a space where gamers and game makers could chat and have fun. We hope this is what happens. We&apos;re able to cope with around 300 visitors a day, and we&apos;ve made it free to attend, so that there are no barriers at all. The idea is total inclusivity from hardcore gamers to interested passers-by.Nuclear Throne – one of the 60 games showing at Radius FestivalEvery evening from 7pm, we&apos;re running a four-hour(!) live-streaming show, which will go out over Twitch, thanks toour own dedicated channel. You can watch online, but we&apos;re also inviting a small studio audience, and tickets are available now, allowing 30 people a night to come along, watch the show then network with all our special guests. Along with interviews, we&apos;ll be running panel discussions looking into the art and business of game development. Mike Bithell, Rami Ismail from Vlambeer and Stanley Parable creator William Pugh will also star, as well as plenty of other surprise appearances. This should be interesting and, let&apos;s face it, controversial. It&apos;s live after all and Rami and Mike don&apos;t mind about ruffling a few industry feathers.We&apos;ve got somegreat games to show too. The pigeon dating sim Hatoful Boyfriend will be on the showfloor on Thursday, fresh from its award-nominated appearance at E3. We&apos;ll have talented UK studio Roll7 showing its forthcoming shooter Not a Hero. We&apos;ll have Mode7 revealing the latest build of Frozen Endzone, and we&apos;ll have Nuclear Throne courtesy of Vlambeer.Most of all, we&apos;ll have lots of people who love video games, and who&apos;ll happily chat about them all day with complete strangers. I&apos;ll be live-blogging everything from my official Guardian trestle table, where visitors will be more than welcome, especially if they bring photos and Vines for me to post online.Please do drop by. Radius Festival runs from Thursday to Saturday, 10am-5pm –we&apos;ve asked people to register in advance, butif you&apos;re passing, we&apos;ll let you in if there&apos;s room. Every evening, we have the live show, for which we charge £25 a night, but that includes four digital games: 0rbitalis (early access), Richard &amp; Alice, 10 Second Ninja and Tango Fiesta. Tickets arehere. It&apos;s a totally non-profit-making endeavour, backed by sponsors Sega, Mastertronic and Mike Bithell who are meeting our terrifying costs.We want this to be the video game event for the rest of us – welcoming, fun, sociable, interesting, educational even. Bring someone who doesn&apos;t play games, bring your parents or your boyfriend, show them that games are diverse and weird and fascinating. Or come alone. Just come and see us!• Radius Festival takes place from Thursday to Saturday, 10.30am-5pm, at theWhite Space, London. It is free to attend during the day, but VIP evening tickets are available at £25 each (price includes one drink and four downloadable games).All details at theRadius Festival website.
Afteraccidentally launching – and pulling – its Snapchat competitorSlingshot last week, Facebook has relaunched the app to US customers.Slingshot borrows Snapchat&apos;s key innovation of ephemeral messaging, allowing users to send photos which time out after being viewed, keeping fun missives away from users&apos; camera rolls (and x-rated texts away from prying eyes).But the app adds in a few twists of its own. Users have the option of sending an instant photo reply to messages, encouraging whole conversations to play out in the format rather than the disconnected snaps common with Snapchat.And, perhaps most importantly for Facebook&apos;s hopes that the app sees wide adoption, photos received from friends must be unlocked by &quot;slinging&quot; a different photo back to the sender.&quot;We wanted to build something where everybody is a creator and nobody is just a spectator,&quot; say the developers, who are part of Facebook&apos;s &quot;Creative Labs&quot; innovation team. &quot;When everyone participates, there’s less pressure, more creativity and even the little things in life can turn into awesome shared experiences. This is what Slingshot is all about.&quot;Users don&apos;t need a Facebook account to use the app, and can sign up with just a phone number and their contact list, similar to the Facebook-acquired WhatsApp, although some may be wary of the setting that lets the app &quot;periodically sync&quot; phone contacts with Facebook to easily find people they know. Users can also, of course, connect via their Facebook friends&apos; list.Slingshot is not Facebook&apos;s first attempt at getting some of the Snapchat lucre. Zuckerberg&apos;s company tried to buy the LA-based messaging app in 2013, for a reported $3bn,but was turned down. A year earlier, it launched its first Snapchat clone, the ill-received &quot;Poke&quot;, which the firm boastedtook only 12 days to build.•Facebook &apos;accidentally&apos; launched Slingshot, its latest Snapchat rival
Yesterday&apos;s reports thatYouTube is preparing to block videos from indie labelsthat have not signed up for its upcoming music subscription service have sparked a heated online debate.In particular, there&apos;s avery cross discussion on Redditover whether the situation has been accurately reported by The Guardian and other media.&quot;YouTube isn&apos;t going to take ANY videos down, as the article implies. Why would they do that? It makes no sense. YouTube just won&apos;t include those artists in whatever new music service they&apos;re building,&quot; claimed the top-rated comment.&quot;Why wouldn&apos;t they block you from the service, if you didn&apos;t want to be in it?&quot; asked another. &quot;Basically YouTube is saying &apos;If you don&apos;t agree to be on our music service, you won&apos;t be on our music service&apos;,&quot; explained another. And: &quot;If this is true, then this is incredibly poor journalism from the Guardian. So poor it&apos;s magical.&quot;It certainly would be, so what&apos;s the truth in this dispute?What are indie labels saying that YouTube is threatening, what has YouTube said in response, and what are the various anonymous sources – and there arealwaysvarious anonymous sources in disputes over digital music licensing – saying is the real problem here?Time for a (non-magical) primer:What is YouTube&apos;s new music service?YouTube has been rumoured to be working on its own subscription streaming music service for some time: a direct rival for Spotify, Deezer, Beats Music and others in that field, including parent company Google&apos;s own Google Play Music All Access.In November 2013, music industry siteBillboard reported that the service would launch by the end of the year, with users paying for unlimited access to streaming music, including the ability to store and play it offline on mobile devices – a standard feature for those rivals.Later that month, Android Police spottedreferences to something called &quot;Music Pass&quot;in YouTube&apos;s Android app, while in April 2014 the New York Post suggested that the new service – it also claimed it&apos;ll be called Music Pass –will launch later this year, possibly costing $10 for full ad-free access.All rumours, but this month&apos;s dispute with independent labels has smoked out some facts direct from the horse&apos;s mouth: YouTube exec Robert Kyncl.In aninterview with the Financial Timesthis week, he confirmed that a premium YouTube music service is on the way: it will start internal tests in the coming days, before launching later in the year.&quot;The new premium YouTube tier will allow users who pay a monthly fee to watch videos or listen to music without adverts on any of their devices, even when they are not connected to the internet,&quot; claimed the article.Why are indie labels angry about the new service?WIN is a global trade body representing independent music labels, and it has been leading the charge against YouTube this month. Here&apos;s what its initial press release alleged:&quot;WIN has raised major concerns about YouTube’s recent policy of approaching independent labels directly with a template contract and an explicit threat that their content will be blocked on the platform if it is not signed.According to WIN members, the contracts currently on offer to independent labels from YouTube are on highly unfavourable, and non-negotiable terms, and undervalue existing rates in the marketplace from existing music streaming partners such as Spotify, Rdio, Deezer and others.&quot;WIN organised a press conferenceon 4 June to ramp up its protests. Its chairman, Alison Wenham, said this at the event:&quot;We understand that YouTube are still, despite our intervention and despite some very trenchant conversations between YouTube and myself, still threatening to block independent content from the YouTube platform if those independent labels do not sign the contract.&quot;Wenham has also written to Vince Cable MP, the UK&apos;s secretary of state for business, innovation and skills, asking for the government&apos;s support. The relevant section of that letter:&quot;YouTube is expected to launch a new audio music streaming service to compete with established services such as Spotify, and is attempting to force contract terms upon the independent sector which we understand are significantly inferior to those offered to the international ‘major’ record companies (Sony, Warner and Universal). If independent companies do not sign up to these revised terms, YouTube has summarily threatened to remove (block) their repertoire from the YouTube service.&quot;The accusation from WIN, representing its independent label members, is clear: if labels don&apos;t sign up for YouTube&apos;s new paid music service at the (non-negotiable) terms, their entire catalogues will be blocked on YouTube – all of YouTube, not just the new premium bit.Note too the &quot;significantly inferior&quot; terms reference in Wenham&apos;s letter. At WIN&apos;s press conference, songwriter (and Guardian journalist) Helienne Lindvall said that &quot;We’re hearing that a billion dollars has been paid by YouTube to the major labels&quot; in advances for its new service.Some of the anger in this dispute is the perception by indie labels that their major rivals have inked lucrative deals with YouTube while leaving them with the crumbs.That billion-dollar figure is hearsay, of course. But note thatYouTube said in Februarythat it had paid $1bn out to music rightsholders in royalties so far, and then consider Kyncl&apos;s quote in the FT interview: &quot;That number is going to double soon.&quot;Adele is one of the most prominent indie-signed artists. Photograph: Brian Rasic/REXWhat has YouTube said in response?Until Kyncl&apos;s interview this week, YouTube&apos;s response to questions about WIN&apos;s accusations had been a standard parry: to stress its good relationships with labels while not dealing with the specific allegations.InThe Guardian&apos;s first report on the disputeon 22 May, YouTube provided this official statement:&quot;YouTube provides a global platform for artists to connect with fans and generate revenue for their music. We have successful deals in place with hundreds of independent and major labels around the world, however we don&apos;t comment on ongoing negotiations.&quot;Last night, the company provided a new statement to The Guardian:&quot;Our goal is to continue making YouTube an amazing music experience, both as a global platform for fans and artists to connect, and as a revenue source for the music industry,” a Google spokesman said.He said the subscription-based service would bring new revenue streams “in addition to the hundreds of millions of dollars YouTube already generates for them each year. We are excited that hundreds of major and independent labels are already partnering with us.”But it&apos;s the Financial Times interview that gives the clearest indication of what YouTube is actually planning to do, through a mixture of direct quotes and paraphrased information.The piece begins &quot;YouTube is about to begin a mass cull of music videos by artists including Adele and the Arctic Monkeys&quot; before the key paragraph:&quot;The Google-owned company will start blocking videos “in a matter of days” to ensure that all content on the new platform is governed by its new contractual terms, said Robert Kyncl, YouTube’s head of content and business operations.&quot;It&apos;s this wording that has provoked some of the arguments over the last 24 hours: you could certainly read that paragraph as saying videos will only be blocked from &quot;the new platform&quot;, but indie labels are claiming the threat is to block them from YouTube as a whole – both the new and old (or paid and free) parts of it.And now, the rumours and speculation...What are those anonymous sources and industry experts saying, then?Billboard is a good place to start: it&apos;s well-connected with US music labels and YouTube alike.&quot;Acts like Adele, Arctic Monkeys and Vampire Weekend, who account for up to 10% of all the music for which YouTube typically has rights to feature, are likely to be pulled down as the world’s largest video service has been unable to reach an agreement with the some of the leading independent labels, including the Beggars Group.The crux of the dispute is that YouTube and the labels are unable to agree on royalty terms the subscription service in addition to existing terms with its free service.YouTube executives argue that they cannot offer music on the free service without it also being available on the paid service as this would disappoint its subscribers. The solution? To take down songs that can’t be available on both services.&quot;That last paragraph is an important one: it&apos;s an answer to the sensible question being asked by several commenters on the Reddit thread about this story: why would YouTube pull free videos just because their labels weren&apos;t signed up to its premium service?The Verge has also followed up, claiming that YouTube is &quot;explicitly threatening to block artists from using the entire YouTube platform — free or paid — if they do not agree to the terms of the new streaming service&quot; before quoting its own source:&quot;A source familiar with the situation has confirmed to The Verge that most of the details in the FT story were accurate. YouTube does not want to launch a paid service and then be forced to show some videos in ad-supported mode, or offer users the ability to take videos offline, but not be able to offer that for big names like Adele or Jack White.It is going to begin blocking artists whose labels have not signed on to its new licensing terms in the countries where those deals apply starting within just a few days, although the paid service is not expected to roll out that soon.&quot;The BBC has also reported on the story, suggesting that not all independent videos will be blocked on YouTube:&quot;The BBC understands that even if blocks do go ahead, content from artists signed to independent labels will remain available on YouTube via channels such as Vevo. Videos which are exclusively licensed by independent record labels, such as acoustic sets or live performances, may be taken down.&quot;This muddies the waters significantly. How can Adele, Arctic Monkeys and Vampire Weekend be &quot;pulled down&quot; if they have official Vevo channels (here,hereandhere)?For background: Vevo is a separate company to YouTube (although Google is one of its shareholders along with major labels Universal and Sony) that runs its own music video site and apps, as well as running channels on YouTube for labels.&quot;To clarify, music videos from the indie labels and distributed by Vevo on YouTube will not be taken down,&quot; aspokesperson for Vevo told TechCrunch.Finally, British music trade siteMusic Week offered a bit more information:&quot;YouTube’s new ad-free subscription music streaming service will launch later this summer. It has been licensed by the three major labels and, Music Week understands, leading independent digital distributors such as INgrooves, The Orchard and Believe Digital.&quot;Digital distributors are the companies responsible for uploading music and videos from indie labels to services like iTunes, Spotify, Deezer, YouTube and more – then collecting the money from sales and streams to pass back to the labels, after taking a cut.So, indie labels who distribute music through the firms named above – if the report is correct – won&apos;t be blocked on YouTube as things stand.What&apos;s really going on?There are basically three possibilities here:One: YouTube is indeed threatening to block the videos of indie labels: if they don&apos;t sign up to the terms of its new paid music service, their videos will be removed from its free service too. Although Vevo-run channels seem likely to stay up.Two: YouTube will block indie labels frommonetisationof their videos on its free service. It&apos;s possible that YouTube will leave labels&apos; videos up, but block them from making money from ads in and around those videos – as well as from using its Content ID system to make money from ads shown on videos uploaded by YouTube users featuring their music.Three: This is all just a big misunderstanding. If indie labels choose not to sign up for YouTube&apos;s new paid music service, their videos will be blocked on it, but left alone on the existing free service.The public evidence appears to be stacked against option three, but it should only be a &quot;matter of days&quot; before we find out for sure.•YouTube reveals $1bn music payouts but some labels unhappy
The UK should privatise the pound and replace it with a cryptocurrency like bitcoin, according to a paper published Wednesday by the free-market Institute of Economic Affairs.Kevin Dowd, a professor of finance and economics at Durham University, says that although bitcoin isn&apos;t the first example of private money, it is the first that governments can&apos;t shut down. Therefore, he says, authorities should admit that it&apos;s here to stay, and allow competition on a level playing field between all alternative forms of money.That might include allowing taxes to be payed in cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin and dogecoin, or even fully privatising the pound, selling off the right to mint the currency to the highest bidder.&quot;Let&apos;s suppose that bitcoin became a very prominent currency,&quot; Dowd told the Guardian. &quot;[To ensure a level playing field], the government itself would accept bitcoin in tax payments. So, in effect, the government should not be favouring its own currency, or any particular currency, through any of its unique powers. Nor have regulations against them.&quot;The natural analogy is with some of the old, bad, monopolies like British Gas or British Telecom. Telecom is a very good example: for a long time, we had a government monopoly, which stifled innovation, and the service was poor. Once that got opened up, competition opened, new innovation prospered, and we got all sorts of innovation that we couldn&apos;t possibly anticipate, and we&apos;re a lot better off for it.&quot;Dowd places bitcoin at the pinnacle of a historical trend of government crackdowns on attempts to create private money. The Liberty Dollar, a physical, gold-based private mint, and e-gold, a digital, gold-based e-currency, both ended up with their creators and proprietors in court, the former on charges of counterfeiting, and the latter over allegations of money laundering.But Dowd argues the charges were politically-motivated protectionism. &quot;Counterfeit 101 is that you try make the fake look like the real thing,&quot; he says, &quot;and the whole business model was predicated on saying that [the Liberty Dollar] is superior to US currency.&quot;Because Bitcoin is decentralised, it&apos;s significantly harder to crack down on using the courts – &quot;you could shut the whole web down, but they can&apos;t do that,&quot; Dowd adds – and so governments can&apos;t stop its rise. If it does become popular, they will have to deal with it some other way.There&apos;s a lot standing in the way of cryptocurrencies before they reach that success, however. For one thing, Dowd writes, &quot;to displace existing state currency they not only have to perform the basic functions of money at least as well as state money, they probably also need qualities that transcend the way in which state money works.&quot;For some advocates of bitcoin, as well as for Dowd himself, those qualities come in the form of protection from inflation: the cryptocurrency will only ever have 21m coins created, ensuring that it will always &quot;hold its value&quot; (though also, critics claim, rendering the bitcoin economy prone to deflationary slumps).For others, they come from the purely digital nature of the currency. Venture capitalist Marc Andreessendescribes itas the financial equivalent of the internet, saying &quot;The internet was a new way to transmit data. Bitcoin&apos;s a new way to transmit money. It&apos;s going to take a long time. The good news it&apos;s a big opportunity. Money is a very big deal, and so if you can build a new way to deal with money, it&apos;s very important and valuable. It just takes time.&quot;But if anything is certain, it&apos;s that bitcoin itself is unlikely to replace the pound. &quot;Given the way bitcoin is designed… a bubble-bust cycle is very much a possiblity,&quot; writes Dowd. &quot;In the longer run, Bitcoin is almost certain to fail – and this is no bad thing. The pioneers in any industry are rarely the ones who last: who remembers Betamax from the early days of the video industry?&quot;•Bitcoin currency could have been destroyed by &apos;51%&apos; attack
A Chinese Android smartphone on sale on Amazon, eBay and other online stores has been found to contain a virus that pretends to be the Google Play Store but steals user data.The Star N9500, which closely resembles Samsung’s Galaxy S4 smartphone in appearance, is manufactured in China but sold online through resellers based in Belfast and Hong Kong.The Trojan, known as “Uupay.D”, disguised as the Google Play Store, comes pre-installed on the Android smartphone and cannot be removed by the user, according to German security company G Data, which analysed one of the smartphones purchased directly from the factory in China.‘Online criminals have full access to the smartphone’The malware steals personal data from the phone and sends it to an anonymous server located in China, but is also capable of installing additional applications or viruses without the user’s knowledge.&quot;The options with this spy program are nearly unlimited. Online criminals have full access to the smartphone,&quot; explained Christian Geschkat, a product manager atG Data, in a blog post. &quot;The only thing users see is an app with the Google Play Store icon in the running processes; other than that, the application is completely disguised.”The virus enables the criminals to track the location of the smartphone, intercept and record phone calls, make purchases and send premium text messages without the user’s permission. It could also be used to break into online banking or other secure services.Users are likely to be oblivious to the fact that their phone could be stealing their data. “Wow, this phone is amazing, especially when I look at those of my mates who have spent £500 plus for the same thing with the word Samsung on it!” said Mr MJ Griffiths on Amazon, rating the Chinese smartphone five stars.The Chinese smartphone is available across Europe, including the UK, for less than £120, and has sold in the hundreds, with various confirmed reviews on Amazon ranking the device from five stars to one star. Some users complained about the poor build-quality, while others found the phone lasted only a couple of months before breaking down.‘Manufacturer deliberately plant malware on its devices?’The device is offered with an extensive list of accessories including a second battery, car charging adapter and second cover. Comparable devices from other manufacturers, including Samsung, cost about two to three times as much.The low price of a smartphone with such a wide range of features is a criminal tactic, according to Geschkat, to entice users. The criminals likely make money from the sale of stolen personal data.It is unknown at what point during the manufacturing process the malware was introduced. “Did the manufacturers of this Android smartphone deliberately plant malware on its devices, or did something go badly wrong on their production line which allowed the malware to sneak its way on board?” asked independent security consultantGraham Cluley in a blog post.Either way, Geschkat advises buyers beware. &quot;In general, particularly cheap offers online that seem tempting should make buyers suspicious. There’s no such thing as a free lunch.”Android accounted for 97% of the malware targeted at mobile devices last year, according to data from security firm F-Secure, an increase of 20% year on year.But the Google Play store, which comes pre-installed on all Google Android devices, only accounts for 0.1% of the malware. The majority of malware is downloaded from third-party app stores including the Chinese stores Baidu and Anzhi, where access to Google Play is restricted.•Simplocker Android malware locks up your smartphone and demands a ransom for its safe return•Smartphone security on a budget: four apps to try on Android and iPhone
It's Wednesday.
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid web traffic distribution: Samsung, LG see quarter-over-quarter gains &gt;&gt; ChitikaTwo and a half years after launching its first Kindle Fire tablet, Amazon is expected to unveil its first smartphone on June 18, 2014. Usage statistics point to the company already having made a sizable impact in North America on the strength of its existing tablet offerings, but becoming the market leader will not be quick or easy for the online retailer. Samsung users continue to generate the majority of Android-based Web traffic in North America, and LG recently overtook Amazon to become the second-largest Android traffic source across the continent.The Blue Packet &gt;&gt; LinkedInDon't worry, you don't have to sign in to LinkedIn to read it. Rui Carmo is head of department at SAPO, a Portuguese carrier:Once in a while, I get e-mail asking me how the telco industry works. My usual reply is "it is far, far more complex than anything else you could ever imagine", and the comeback (if any) is usually around the lines of "but isn't it just a bunch of servers like the Internet"?Enough deeply clueless people keep doing this that I thought it worth while to try and describe how a new mobile service is designed, implemented and launched end-to-end. All five (yes, five) years' worth of it.Year five: "The Linux guy eventually leaves the company to start his own internet venture and ends up buying Google five years later."Samsung restructuring could offer opportunities &gt;&gt; WSJThe Lee family may have to restructure their holdings in Samsung because of 72-year-old Lee Kun-hee's health problems:The family's needs seem to be two-fold: to raise money to pay inheritance tax, and to maintain control of the companies while doing so. Their control of the most valuable asset, smartphone leader Samsung Electronics, rests on direct family holdings of just 4.7%, while Samsung Life Insurance has 7.6% and two other affiliated companies hold 5.3%.Crucially, Samsung Electronics also holds an 11% stake in itself in the form of treasury shares. Under Korean securities law, companies don't have to cancel shares they buy back. These don't have voting rights while they are held by the company, but would if they were transferred, for example, to a holding company. That is a scenario tipped by CLSA analysts and would follow the model of previous Korean conglomerate restructurings.Investors have agitated for Samsung Electronics to return part of its $60 billion cash hoard. It seems likely that a large portion of such returns would come as buybacks instead of dividends, as adding to the treasury holding would help consolidate ownership.Have a gander at theshareholding structure. It's a doozy. But what sort of meaningless headline is "could offer opportunities"?The Technium &gt;&gt; Edge.orgKevin Kelly (and this is just one extract from a long wide-ranging interview):There is a huge lag between the arrival and our use of something and our complete understanding of it, what its role is and what it means and its effects plus and minus. That gap, even when we speed up, is going to remain. There's still going to be a gap between our placement of it and our acceptance of it. The acceptance comes first, but this is actually important, because I did a study of technology looking at prohibitions, which don't work. Prohobitions are always just postponements. We can't regulate technology by prohibiting it. We have to only regulate it by use. We have to use things in order to steer them or rearrange them or reassign them. We can't manage our technology by not using them, by prohibiting them, by outlawing them.What the theory of "disruptive innovation" gets wrong &gt;&gt; The New YorkerJill Lepore:The theory of disruption is meant to be predictive. On March 10, 2000, Christensen launched a $3.8m Disruptive Growth Fund, which he managed with Neil Eisner, a broker in St. Louis. Christensen drew on his theory to select stocks. Less than a year later, the fund was quietly liquidated: during a stretch of time when the Nasdaq lost 50% of its value, the Disruptive Growth Fund lost 64%.In 2007, Christensen told Business Week that "the prediction of the theory would be that Apple won't succeed with the iPhone," adding, "History speaks pretty loudly on that." In its first five years, the iPhone generated $150bn of revenue. In the preface to the 2011 edition of "The Innovator's Dilemma," Christensen reports that, since the book's publication, in 1997, "the theory of disruption continues to yield predictions that are quite accurate." This is less because people have used his model to make accurate predictions about things that haven't happened yet than because disruption has been sold as advice, and because much that happened between 1997 and 2011 looks, in retrospect, disruptive.The precision with which Lepore tears apart the case studies Christensen has used is forensic and unrelenting. It doesn't destroy some part of disruption theory, but it calls a lot of it into question. Definitely a must-read.Microsoft debating Cortana's possible future on Android and iPhone &gt;&gt; GeekWire"It's a bit of a head-scratcher for us right now," acknowledged Marcus Ash, a group program manager for Windows Phone, when he was asked about Cortana's possible future on Android and iOS at the SMX Advanced search marketing conference in Seattle today.For example, a Windows PC user who uses an Android phone could find Cortana on the desktop or tablet to be an incomplete experience if the virtual assistant wasn't able to take into account activity on the phone, and interact with the user via that device.However, Ash added, "It's interesting to think about the future of these assistants and whether they become a reason to buy into the ecosystem. That is the other tension we have. If you play this out five to ten years, and these assistants become the reason you choose Android or iOS or Windows, then what's our position? Could Cortana be the thing that, as a Windows user, (makes me feel like) I've got to get a Windows phone?"Thus neatly embodying why you can't be equally a devicesandservices company. A services company must think cross-platform; a devices company ties services to its own platform.If you are using Windows 8, I feel sorry for you &gt;&gt; Lost In MobileShaun McGill bought a Windows 8 laptop because his son's school required it:I have been using a Mac for the past 4 years and a Windows 7 laptop for work, but nothing prepared me for the changes in Windows 8 and the sad news that some things never seem to change.This laptop came with Windows 8, not 8.1, installed and despite realising that there is no start button, when I came to try to work the PC without it things immediately became confusing. After some time I realised that I could tap the Desktop tile to get back to familiarity and then I couldn't work out how to find the installed apps. A selection are shown as tiles, but that didn't help until I accidentally swiped from the top of the screen to be greeted with an 'All apps' option at the bottom. Tapping this brings up a disorganised list of apps to choose from, but at least I could pin them to the taskbar which offered a minimal shortcut setup for my needs.And so I proceeded to install the updates that were available, all 97 of them.Then Norton gets involved too.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Words are overrated – ask anyone on the internet – which is why millions outsource the act of expressing their deepest feelings to emoji. From the familiar yellow faces (grimaces and grins galore) to&nbsp;more cryptic images ("ballet dancers with bunny ears", "busts in silhouette") – emojis are an inescapable part of modern life. And now software standards group the Unicode Consortium has announced anew&nbsp;range, to be&nbsp;released in July,adding some 250 new emojisto our lexicon. There aren't images for them all yet, but we do at least know their names. Here are seven of the most intriguing – and&nbsp;when to use them. [Insert celebratory "flamenco dancer in red dress" emoji].Wind Blowing Face: One of a number of new weather emoji in the batch, this will be practical for anyone in the UK between the months of October to July. And chunks of August and September, too.Derelict House Building: Is your neighbourhood in dire need of gentrification? Alert property developers with this handy emoji and get priced out of&nbsp;your home even faster.Empty Document: For days when the words just don't come. University students will love this one.Anger Bubble: Why be direct when a passive-aggressive emoji can do it for you?Dark Sunglasses: To denote hangovers from&nbsp;hell. The only current alternative is a sun with sunglasses on, which is not only inadequate, but also nonsensical – why would the sun need sunglasses? Think it through, guys.Reversed Hand With Middle Finger Extended: Come on. [Insert "unamused face" emoji] This is self-explanatory, no?Man in Business Suit Levitating: Whenwon'tthis be useful?You can readthe full list of new emojishere.
Speech-recognition software company Nuance has reportedly held discussions with Samsung over an acquisition.Among the licensees of Nuance&apos;s technology is Apple for its Siri personal digital assistant, and Samsung itself, which already uses the technology in its phones, tablets and televisions. Other customers include cable companies, car manufacturers, and a number of telephone helpline providers.In the consumer market, Nuance is best-known for its Dragon Naturally Speaking dictation software. Its technology for voice recognition and natural language processing is licensed by a number of third parties to power their own systems.Nuance islisted on the Nasdaq stock market, where is has a market capitalisation of about $6bn. But it has madelossesover the past four quarters, and has a growing debt problem,saysRichard Windsor of the Radio Free Mobile consultancy. &quot;These factors make Nuance ideal for a privatisation where the company is taken over, cleaned up and then returned to the market at a much higher valuation,&quot; suggests Windsor, who thinks that it is more likely to be bought by a private equity company - which could hang on to valuable clients like Apple - than Samsung.Nuance has also been tapped by Samsung to develop the voice recognition features on the Korean firm&apos;s line of smartwatches, and the company considers wearable computers a key growth area for its future. &quot;The new area of smartwatches and wearables will be really sticky,&quot; Vlad Sejnoha, Nuance&apos;s chief technology officer, said, speaking to the Guardian in May. &quot;That&apos;s a really good form factor. It has the immediacy of information, and it doesn&apos;t have the intrusive nature of something that you wear on your face.&quot;But what this brings is ubiquitous complexity. The one thing that is not evolving very quickly is the user interface, and we are still working largely with a version of the shrunken desktop on all of these form factors. And in many instances to do something you have to drill through those layers, follow those links, follow those hierarchies, to find what you want and then interact with it.&quot;This is where we come in. We are not just a speech company, we&apos;re really a company who believes that human language is the key to unlocking a lot of this functionality, making it accessible, making it findable, and making it easy to interact with. To use language, speech is a natural. You don&apos;t want to be typing in natural language commands and utterances, you want to be saying them. So the two go hand in hand.&quot;Nuance executives cited Spike Jonze&apos;s film Her, about a man who falls in love with a Siri-like digital assistant, as an example of the sort of technology their company was attempting to create.After the Wall Street Journalbroke news of the talks, Nuance&apos;s shares rose by 10%. The company&apos;s market cap before the rise was $5.5bn, and almost one-fifth of the shares are owned by Carl Icahn, an activist investor who frequently makes headlinesharanguing Appleto use its cash pool to buy back shares.Nuance also owns Android keyboard manufacturer Swype, which uses the company&apos;s natural language processing to provide predictive keyboards. Swype&apos;s software was also picked by Apple to demonstrate the new open keyboard system in iOS 8. But the keyboards built into Samsung phones,such as the Galaxy S4, are made using technology licensed from Swype&apos;s London-based competitor SwiftKey, a deal which may unravel if the acquisition goes ahead.According to Nuance&apos;s head of mobile and consumer, Mike Thompson, the company&apos;s cloud-based voice recognition system, which is used by its own products and its white-label services to handle online language processing, has increased the number of users it serves 20 times in four years, from 6 million a month in 2010 to 123 million a month as of 2014. As a result, &quot;connected revenue&quot; – income the firm brings in from its cloud based services – now accounts for 64% of the overall business.Like Samsung, Nuance has a strong presence in the medical technology sector. Speech technology is popular amongst medical professionals, because it solves multiple problems: a doctor can focus their attention on a patient, rather than on a screen; they run less risk of terrible handwriting leading to malpractice; and they can speed up the paperwork aspect of the job.&quot;Half of doctors&apos; time is spent on a computer documenting care,&quot; said Dr Nick van Terheyden, the company&apos;s chief medical information officer, in May. &quot;What we&apos;re doing in healthcare is changing it to be more patient-focused.&quot;We&apos;re not there yet: there&apos;s not microphones listening in, letting us just talk. Turns out it&apos;s really hard to listen to a conference call then produce a transcript… But we&apos;ve found ways and techniques to do that; because we&apos;ve crossed that hurdle, the potential of micing up a room and recording that is there.&quot;
The European Union is forming a joint research partnership with South Korea to focus on ultrafast “5G” mobile broadband technology.South Korea is one of themost advanced countries in mobile technologyusage and infrastructure, with one of the fastest mobile broadband networks currently available, and home toSamsung, the world’s biggest smartphone manufacturer.&quot;5G will become the new lifeblood of the digital economy and digital society once it is established,&quot; the EU commissioner for telecoms Neelie Kroes saidin a statement on Monday.The EU estimates that a 5G internet connection will allow users to a high-definition movie in six seconds, versus up to six minutes with current 4G technology – which has only just begun to achieve substantial adoption in Europe. Current 4G technology can already achieve download speeds of 150 megabits per second, with future versions able to achieve 1 gigabit per second; 5G would offer substantially more, though no standard has been set.A common 5G standard and rollout timetable by end of 2015“This is the first time ever that public authorities have joined together in this way, with the support of private industry, to push forward the process of standardisation,” Kroes said.Ultrafast 5G mobile broadband is still in the early stages of development, but the partnership will allow the European commission and South Korea to work towards a common standard and rollout timetable by the end of 2015.The two parties will also unify the radio frequencies used for 5G, which will make it easier and cheaper for manufacturers to make 5G smartphones and other devices as well as making it more straightforward for users to move between countries and areas. Kroes pledged to ensuring that the necessary radio bands to support the new networks would be made available.Faster, stronger, internet of things-capableEurope led the mobile competition in the 1990s, but has fallen behind the US and Asia as faster 4G networks rolled out.Kroes hopes that the partnership will propel the EU back into the lead.The 5G standard promises faster and stronger connections to cope with the expanding numbers of mobile internet users, but also the connected devices part of the “Internet of Things” – where every appliance and piece of infrastructure around the home and streets is smart and connected to the internet.The EU said it would spend €700m (£560m) on 5G research over the next seven years in December, while telecoms companies are expected to contribute over €3bn.Europe&apos;s 5G Infrastructure Association, which includes telecoms companies Alcatel-Lucent, Deutsche Telekom, Telefonica and Orange, will work directly with South Korea’s 5G forum.•Experts play down Samsung&apos;s claims of 5G technology
Independent artists could disappear from YouTube &quot;in a matter of days&quot; after the Google video service confirmed it was dropping content from independent labels that have not signed up for its upcoming subscription music service.YouTube is about to begin testing the new service – which will charge people to watch and listen to music without ads, and download songs to their mobile devices – within the next few days, initially within Google.The company&apos;s head of content and business operations, Robert Kyncl,told the Financial Timesthat the service – previously rumoured to be called YouTube Music Pass – will launch more widely later in the year.His confirmation that YouTube will block videos from labels that do not sign licensing deals for the new premium tier will be hugely controversial among indie labels, with trade body WIN already filing a complaint to the European Commission about its negotiating strategy.&quot;While we wish that we had 100% success rate, we understand that is not likely an achievable goal and therefore it is our responsibility to our users and the industry to launch the enhanced music experience,&quot; said Kyncl, claiming that YouTube has signed up labels representing 90% of the music industry.Independent labels are likely to disagree. Their licensing agency Merlin estimates thatindies collectively account for a 32.6% market shareof the recorded music industry&apos;s sales and streams.Contacted by The Guardian following his comments, WIN&apos;s chief executive Alison Wenham was blunt in her response. &quot;They have suffered a simple but catastrophic error of judgement in misreading the market,&quot; said Wenham, who hadorganised a press conference earlier in the monthto protest at YouTube&apos;s plans.Wenham said YouTube was &quot;setting itself up for failure&quot; and only a small number of independent labels would agree to its terms.&quot;We have tried and will continue to try to help YouTube understand just how important independent music is to any streaming service and why it should be valued accordingly. Music fans want a service that offers the complete range of music available. This is something that companies such as Spotify and Deezer do, both of whom have excellent relationships with the independent music sector,&quot; she said.WIN claims that the company has signed lucrative licensing deals with major labels Universal, Warner and Sony, while demanding that independent labels sign up to inferior terms or face having their videos blocked from YouTube&apos;s free service.“Our goal is to continue making YouTube an amazing music experience, both as a global platform for fans and artists to connect, and as a revenue source for the music industry,” a Google spokesman said. He said the subscription-based service would bring new revenue streams “in addition to the hundreds of millions of dollars YouTube already generates for them each year. We are excited that hundreds of major and independent labels are already partnering with us.”Wenham&apos;s criticism echoes a claim made at the event by musician Billy Bragg, who said &quot;I don’t know why they’ve opened this hornet’s nest right now, apart from corporate hubris. I don’t think they realise what a stupid thing they’ve done.&quot;Artists including Adele, Arctic Monkeys and Jack White could see their videos taken down. The site has become a key promotional outlet for independent labels of all sizes in recent years.YouTube attracts more than 1bn monthly viewers, with music one of its biggest categories. Its upcoming premium music subscription tier will compete with Spotify, Deezer and Napster among other services, including Apple-owned Beats Music and Google&apos;s own Google Play Music All Access.Independent labels have long complained that they deserve more respect from digital music services negotiating licensing deals, and set up Merlin to strike deals on their behalf.The agency has remained silent throughout the recent arguments about YouTube&apos;s planned new service, although its chief executive Charles Caldascriticised the company at an industry conferencein late April.Referring to an earlier quote from Bragg suggesting that musicians unhappy about royalties paid by Spotify should be &quot;marching to YouTube central with flaming pitchforks&quot;, Caldas said: &quot;I can’t say Billy’s right, but I can say that he’s not wrong.&quot;The move comes as Amazon too has begun to flex its muscles in ways that limit the content its customers can receive. Amazon is delaying shipments andrefused pre-orders for some titles from Hachette, publisher of Harry Potter author JK Rowling, and home to David Baldacci, Stephen Colbert, David Foster Wallace and others.It has alsopulled pre-ordersfor forthcoming Warner Home Video features, including international blockbuster The Lego Movie, 300: Rise of an Empire, Winter’s Tale and Transcendence.•Will YouTube really block indie labels if they snub its new music service?
Apple has settled its case with US states and consumers over ebook price fixing, according to a filing with a New York court made on Monday.The attorney Steve Berman, representing US consumers and some states, told the US district judge Denise Cote that Apple had reached an agreement in principle with the plaintiffs. Cote ruled against Apple in a non-jury trial in 2013. Full details of the settlement are being kept under seal before approval by the court.The settlement avoids a trial that could has seen as much as $840m (£495m) in claims against Apple and follows similar settlements made by the fivebig publishers also involved in the price fixing. The plaintiffs claimed Apple overcharged consumers by $280m for books and that the company should have to pay three times that amount.Apple following suitPenguin Group, Harper Collins, Simon &amp; Schuster, Hachette and Macmillan have already settled with the US Department of Justice, agreeing to pay a total of $164m and not to ban wholesale discounting of their ebooks.The US government sued Apple and the five biggest publishers in April 2012 for pushing for an “agency model”, where publishers set the price and Apple just took a 30% cut, which resulted in most ebooks costing more.The case alleged that in 2009 Apple and the publishers conspired to set ebook prices across the industry in an attempt to break Amazon’s hold of the market, which at the time saw the Seattle-based company claim around 90% of ebook sales, sometimes selling them at a loss to boost sales of its Kindle ebook reader and tablets.Apple declined to comment on the ongoing legal case.•The Apple ebook price-fixing lawsuit has terrifying implications for an Amazon monopoly
In the global console industry, it&apos;s pretty much been Sony&apos;s year so far – few will argue with that. The PlayStation 4 has sold 7m units, roughly 2m more than the Xbox One, if current figures are to be believed. Meanwhile, Nintendo has fallen way behind as consumers continue to spurn the Wii U.With confidence high then, it&apos;s been another great E3 for Sony. The company&apos;s gargantuan stand held a strong range of PlayStation 4 titles, as well as row-upon-row of thoroughly appealing PlayStation Network games. Although many of those projects are scheduled for 2015, we managed to get hands-on time with several key examples. Here&apos;s what we thought.DriveclubEyebrows were raised when Driveclub, the first blockbusting PS4 racing game from Motorstorm creator Evolution Studios, was delayed to October 7. But at E3, it was apparent that Sony took a sensible decision on that score. At last year’s show, the game looked distinctly average in visual terms, whereas now, it has acquired the polished graphical sheen that PS4 owners demand. And whereas last year its gameplay was shrouded in ambiguity, we now know that it is truly seeking to innovate beyond the conventional racing game format.Design director Paul Rustchynsky describes the project as a “socially connected experience, with clubs at the heart of everything.” He admits that seamlessly integrating that social aspect was a factor in the game’s slippage. In Driveclub, you receive a “targeted feed”, containing online updates, face-offs and challenges designed specifically for you. Racing tasks may involve racing against your PlayStation Network friends, like-minded friends of friends or players with a similar skill level.Importantly, Evolution Studios has worked out how to incorporate this element so that it won’t affect the general flow of your play. Rustchynsky said that one multiplayer mechanic will involve registering for events that take your fancy, which might be scheduled to take place at a specific time in the future; the game will send you notifications when they are due.As the name suggests, car clubs will feature heavily, and the single-player mode, called Driveclub Tour, will include point-to-points, road races and track races, along with objectives which may not necessarily be about winning, but instead reward things like clean laps. There will be more than 50 cars, starting with the Golf GTI and tending towards the exotic. Settings will take in much of Europe, including Norway and Scotland.Another key factor – marking Driveclub as a quintessentially British project – is its complex weather system. Evolution reckons it has taken this to new levels for a driving game with, for example, roads becoming progressively snowier in northern climes, and wind speed determining how quickly wet roads will dry out. The point behind this, and a day-night system, is to provide different driving experiences on the same roads.The E3 demo we played gave no indication of the social side of the game, being a straight race around a road circuit in Scotland, but it did feature “dynamic challenges” in which you may have to get the closest to the racing line around a particular corner, or drift for the longest period around a hairpin bend.As you drive around the long tracks, backdropped by highly impressive scenery, you enter delineated areas where you can discharge a set challenge to the best of your ability. Once you realise what is required (your efforts are rated at the end of each challenge section) this proves pretty good fun. The racing – against human opponents at least – is brutal, and car feel plentiful and authentic. There&apos;s a lot of exotic machinery to choose between, including a Ferrari F12, a McLaren MP4-12C and a Porsche 911.Driveclub is already pretty moreish and definitely looks and feels like the top-line, flagship driving game that you would expect from Evolution Studios. However, the big question now is whether it will feel radically different from the likes of Forza Horizon 2 and The Crew, two titles competing on a very similar circuit.The Order: 1886Above all else, owners of newly launched consoles crave original, exclusive games – like The Order: 1886. It certainly has an unusual underlying premise: that mankind took an evolutionary swerve a millennium or so back, leading to the existence of animalistic half-breeds which fought furiously with humans until the industrial revolution gave the latter species the upper hand.There’s a pinch of Arthurian legend in there, too. In the game’s alternate human history, King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table discover a substance called Black Water which gives them the ability to heal and enjoy incredible longevity, and so they found the Order, which dedicates itself to acting as guardians of mankind. By 1886, a more effective industrial revolution than the one we know has put all manner of technology, including sophisticated guns and electricity, into the hands of the Order, but they have become identified with the upper classes so, as well as fighting the remaining half-breeds, they find themselves up against the rebelling masses.The outcome of this florid back-story is a game world that looks like Victorian London but features steampunk weaponry and a dash of mysticism. At E3, we saw a sequence of the game in which player character Galahad first encounters a Lycan – a werewolf that can only be killed with some weapon or strategy beyond what our protagonist has available at the time. Ru Weerasuriya, the game’s director at developer Ready At Dawn, tantalisingly refused to reveal how the Lycans will be dealt with, and hinted that other types of half-breed will feature.The chunk of the The Order: 1886 that we played was promising, but typically for show demo, very short. The gameplay mainly consisted of cover-based shooting punctuated by cut-scenes, which sounds a tad tired, but there were enough twists to keep it fresh. Galahad, for example, is equipped with a thermite gun, allowing him to fire a flammable cloud that can be ignited with a mini-grenade. This not only takes out groups of enemies, it also blasts background objects, which proves useful in environment puzzles. The Black Water acts as a healing agent, and at times, you can trigger Blacksight, a sort of focus mode.Atmospherically, The Order: 1886 is impeccable. Ready At Dawn uses its own proprietary engine, designed to let it build levels which are packed with detail and what Weerasuriya characterises as “density”. Incredible texture-work adds to the distinctive yet believable feel of the environments, and the performance capture on the character models is of the highest order.The Order: 1886 looks beautiful, has original ideas and promises top-class shooter-style action. It will need a good sense of pace in order to stave off repetitiveness, though, and we will unfortunately have to wait until next year before getting our hands on it.BloodborneWe didn’t get hands-on with Bloodborne, but this action-RPG, developed by Dark Souls creator From Software, is another vital exclusive. Its Gothic visual approach renders the murky environment almost black and white at times, but all this studio&apos;s elements are clearly visible: no-compromise combat, terrifying bosses and cranked-up difficulty levels.The game’s central mechanic is its combat system, which centres on an unusual weapon – essentially a giant spring-loaded blade. When folded, you can use it for quick attacks, but unfolding doubles your reach – this is handy for enemies you don’t want coming too close, but it makes attacks much slower. In your spare hand, you have a blunderbuss, which is very much a secondary weapon, and is employed to send troublesome enemies staggering back, so that you can then move in for the kill with your blade. As with any From Software game, dodging is vital.The inhabitants of the town visited in the demo are in the grip of a deep paranoia caused by a monster invasion. As an outsider, you would be attacked on sight, so it is a good idea to take a stealthy approach. The combat looks challenging, and the atmosphere chilling, with villagers engaging in dubious rituals inlcuding burning their fellow townsfolk at the stake. And the giant boss at the end of the level is as over-the-top as you would expect of a From Software game.Once again, Bloodborne is expected to ship in 2015. Those who want to experience this combination of RPG and survival horror will have to develop a virtua familiar to fans of From Software&apos;s game design: patience.Counter-SpyShot through with delightfully quirky and cynical British humour, Counter-Spy is a side-scrolling third-person shooter with elements of stealth and platforming and a great Cold War art style that puts one in mind of The Incredibles, Team Fortress 2 and Spy Vs Spy. You’re cast as a spy working for an agency called Counter, in a world divided into warring Imperialist and Communist chunks, both of which are bidding to be the first to detonate a nuclear device on the moon.You must stop that happening by making your way through procedurally generated levels, stealing plans for nuclear attacks and sabotaging the planned missile attacks. There are various weapons available, but sneaking up behind enemies to take them out seems the preferable option. Counter-Spy keeps its gameplay simple but bolstered by the subtly humorous narrative it&apos;s a compelling take on the stealth-platforming sub-genre.EntwinedDeveloped by two groups of students from the Carnegie Mellon and San Jose State universities, Entwined enjoyed a very positive reception at Sony’s E3 press conference, thanks to a brightly colourful abstract art style and neat controller mechanic. The mythological back story involves two lovers who must be combined to become a dragon. This is achieved through an unusual spin on twin-stick controls: you move forwards into the screen, and must manoeuvre each stick into the correct orientation so that both characters run over colour-coded shapes in order to unite.It’s reminiscent of a simplified Rez, and visually, it’s almost as extreme as Tetsuya Mizuguchi&apos;s Dreamcast classic. The final part of each level, which sees you transforming into the dragon and painting contrails around the environment, is particularly magnificent to behold, although not quite so much fun to play. We weren’t convinced that Entwined will have much longevity or replay value, but it’s certainly distinctive – and an amazing achievement for its very young development team.Guns UpGuns Up eschews flashy art in favour of infuriatingly compulsive gameplay. It’s a top-down military real-time-strategy title with more than a whiff of Cannon Fodder. You can create different types of troops, including general grunts, machine-gunners, and bazooka and flame-thrower specialists. You can then control them directly, but use objects such as markers to tell them where to concentrate their fire.As your troops start to do their stuff, you’re rewarded with power-ups such as air-strikes, tear gas bombs and rocket attacks – plus currency, which lets you build more troops. It’s simple yet surprisingly tactical; the environment comes into play with, for example, barbed wire causing blockages which your troops can’t traverse, and there’s a real skill in making the best use of your power-ups. Plus, it’s thoroughly frenetic – as all RTS games should be.
When popular security software TrueCrypt closed its doors,many users simply couldn&apos;t believe that the stated reason– that the developers had decided to stop work because Microsoft had rendered their software obsolete – was true.The most widely held interpretation, two weeks on, is that the developers decided to stop workingbecause the task of maintaining a widely used cryptography programjust became too much work. Other users claim that the program contains &quot;duress canaries&quot;, small signals designed to indicate that the work is being released under duress. One user, Alyssa Rowan, cites three minor changes to the formatting of the code which she had been told in 2004 were such signals:@diodesign@0xabad1deaNo, actually it&#39;s &quot;English (U.S.)&quot; -&gt; &quot;English (United States)&quot; :-)&mdash; Alyssa Rowan (@AlyssaRowan)May 28, 2014@0xabad1dea2. Release date format: mmmm d yyyy -&gt; m/yyyy;&mdash; Alyssa Rowan (@AlyssaRowan)May 29, 2014@0xabad1dea3. Format/InPlace.c #12, delete &quot;(likely an MS bug)&quot; from comment, rather than changing wording to &quot;maybe&quot;, etc&mdash; Alyssa Rowan (@AlyssaRowan)May 29, 2014But whether or not Rowan&apos;s canary is intentionally tripped, some users have gone a bit far in trying to find evidence of misdeeds.This post, by Wikipedian Badon, has been making the rounds:There is a hidden message on the newsourceforge TrueCrypt site. The first line of the site is this:&quot;WARNING: Using TrueCrypt is not secure as it may contain unfixed security issues&quot;If you take just the first letter of each word, except the word &quot;WARNING&quot;:&quot;UsingTrueCryptisnotsecureasitmaycontainunfixedsecurityissues&quot;you get this:&quot;uti nsa im cu si&quot;It&apos;s Latin that roughly means:&quot;Unless I want to use the NSA&quot;So, the full message seems to be this:&quot;WARNING: Using TrueCrypt is not secure as it may contain unfixed security issues, unless I want to use the NSA&quot;Which is English that roughly means:&quot;Don&apos;t use TrueCrypt because it is under the control of the NSA&quot;In fact, &quot;uti nsa im cu si&quot; is meaningless in Latin – except to Google translate, (mis)translates it to the message Badon discovered.Neither &quot;im&quot; nor &quot;cu&quot; are Latin words at all, and while si and uti are, they don&apos;t mean the words that Google claims they do: instead, &quot;si&quot; translates to &quot;if&quot;, and &quot;uti&quot; to &quot;in order to&quot;. What seems to have happened is that Google recognised enough Latin words to think it was translating a real sentence, and then made its best effort to cram the rest of the words into a vaguely grammatical sentence. A more accurate translation, going the other way, would be &quot;volo nisi ut NSA&quot;.It may still be that the NSA were involved in the closure of TrueCrypt. But it isn&apos;t the case that the developers are leaving hidden cod-Latin messages peppered throughout their notes.•For what other reasons could TrueCrypt have closed?
Apple&apos;s design chief, Jonathan Ive, gave a small glimpse into the inner workings of the company recently in a rare interview with the New York Times.Subjects covered included the management style of chief executive Tim Cook; new materials being worked on for as-yet unannounced products, and Ive&apos;s expanded role overseeing the design of Apple&apos;s software as well as it&apos;s hardware.Here are nine things we learnedfrom the interview:1) Small teams remain the key to good designApple has always prided itself on the industrial design of its products. Ive talks about his belief that design is best done in small teams, with Apple&apos;s having been together for the past 15-20 years.“It has always been a case where you have a number of small groups working together,” said Ive. “Creative teams are small and very focused. One of the underlying characteristics is being inquisitive and being curious. Some of those personal attributes and hallmarks haven’t changed at all.”“Titles or organisational structures, that’s not the lens through which we see our peers,” said Ive describing something much more free and collaborative than a clearly structured hierarchy where ideas come from the top down.2) Manufacturing blended with designIve also trumpets Apple’s two-pronged design ethos, blending manufacturing and design when creating new products. &quot;Making isn’t just this inevitable function tacked on at the end,” he said.“This is part of Steve’s legacy. Deep in the culture of Apple is this sense and understanding of design, developing and making. Form and the material and process – they are beautifully intertwined – completely connected.&quot;3 Tim Cook very much a part of Steve Jobs’s visionIve has been core to Apple’s products for the last 15 to 20 years, but so has the company’s current chief executive Tim Cook, brought tightly into the fold by co-founder Steve Jobs as part of his succession plan.“Steve established a set of values, and he established preoccupations and tones that are completely enduring – and he established those principles with a small team of people. I’ve been ridiculously lucky to be part of it. But Tim was very much part of that team – for that last 15 or 20 years,&quot; said Ive.Cook was instrumental in the move from plastic laptops to the new metal Apple PowerBooks first released in 1997, which set the design language and product expectations that have stretched all the way through to the current day MacBook Pros and Airs.“I remember clearly a time when we made plastic portable computers, and Steve and Tim and I sat down and said we wanted to build an incredibly thin and light portable computer,” quipped Ive.4 Apple working in new materials for new productsApple, like any technology company, is constantly working on new products in new categories behind the scenes, which often never see the light of day. Although Ive wouldn’t be drawn on specifics – surprise! – he did hint that some new products are on their way made out of materials Apple has yet to use in a device.“I would love to talk about future stuff – they’re materials we haven’t worked in before. I’ve been working on this stuff for a few years now. Tim is fundamentally involved in pushing into these new areas and into these materials,” said Ive.Whether that indicates that Apple’s long expected smart-watch is due soon, using one of those brand new materials, remains to be seen.5 Ive heading softwareA lot was made of Ive’s move to head software design as well as hardware design, with Apple’s last iPhone and iPad software being called “Ive’s iOS 7” by pundits, but the organisational shift is not quite as dramatic as commentators made out, according to Ive.“I provide some leadership and direction in terms of user interface – a subset of software,” he said. “The core creative community is very small but is also very close – there’s been changes there, but the change isn’t perhaps as dramatic as you might assume.”6 Focus is the key to success“One of the values of things I learned absolutely directly from Steve was the whole issue of focus. What are we focusing on: focus on product,” said Ive.Apple makes very few products compared to most electronics companies, especially in the mobile space where it has four current models, the iPhone 5S, iPhone 5C, iPad Air and iPad mini. Others like Samsung have 10s of products in their lineups.“When that truly is your reason for coming into the studio, is just to try to make the very best product you can, when that is exclusive of everything else, it’s remarkable how insignificant or unimportant a lot of other stuff becomes,” Ive explained.7 Cook as a managerCook took the reins at Apple in 2011, after Jobs took medical leave. His speciality was supply chain management, which some thought would change the ethos at the company. Jobs was a notorious stickler for detail, ruling some parts of the company with an iron fist. According to Ive, Cook applies a similar discipline to his role.“We meet on average three times a week. Sometimes those meetings are over in his space, sometimes here in the design studio,” said Ive.“Heading on for two decades working with Tim, one of the things I have always admired is the quiet consideration he gives to trying to understand how he perceives something. He will take the time. I think that testifies to the fact that he knows it’s important,” he said.8 Patience is a virtue Apple struggles to maintainOn the outside, Apple projects an image of cool, calm and collected consideration, only launching products when they’re ready and at the right time. But the internal workings aren’t quite as machine like and keeping things under wraps is a challenge.“It is hard for us all to be patient. It was hard for Steve. It is hard for Tim,” said Ive. “At any point in time, working on something, it’s always hard to just keep focusing on the product.”9 Apple is still defiantApple has been slated in the past for releasing products that many commentators have dismissed at first, claiming that they are nothing new. Ive sees this as business as usual.“Honestly, I don’t think anything’s changed. People felt exactly the same way when we were working on iPhone. The iPhone was broadly dismissed. The iPod was broadly dismissed. The iPad was probably more copiously written off as a large iPod,” said Ive.Ive also relishes in the challenge of pushing boundaries, and is not afraid to fail, at least internally when producing new products.“If doing anything new, you’re very used to having insurmountable obstacles. At some point you have to make a call — at some point you have to say, ‘We’ve stretched this and we’ve come up against laws of physics, which we cannot change’,” said Ive“The benefit of hindsight is we only really talk about those things that did work out,“ he concludes.•Apple, coffee and techno: Jonathan Ive&apos;s recipe for success
In March, the world’s biggest surveillance-technology providers gathered in the pristine corridors of the JW Marriot Hotel in Dubai. The occasion was the three-dayISS World conference, the middle east’s largest “lawful interception” event.Rooms there cost just under £200 a night, small change to those business leaders earning significant sums by providing the code used to spy on internet denizens.The following month, fusty halls in Farnborough were filled with many of the same companies at Security &amp; Policing, aHome Office-sponsored event. These firms believe they are supplying tools to the defenders of the free world.Yet the Guardian has been handed evidence their technology and vast numbers of other espionage tools are increasingly being used in countries with questionable human rights records, where activists and media organisations, among others, are under attack.Software for monitoring and accessing victims’ computersHacking Team was one of the companies expected to attend both events. This Italian outfit has been accused of selling its malicious software to the UAE and Morocco, where an activist and a media organisation were targeted. Its Galileo tool can monitor Skype calls, emails, keystrokes and webcams while allowing remote control over victims’ machines.Research released in February indicates the company’s surreptitious software has been operational in a significant number of nations that civil rights organisations deem repressive.Citizen Lab, a group based out of the University of Toronto consisting of security researchers keen to expose malware used by repressive regimes, details in its Spy Another Day report (previous studies have been given Bond-themed names) several months of internet-mapping efforts.The researchers discovered servers running the malware in as many as 22 countries, including Mexico, Colombia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Oman, Sudan, Malaysia, Ethiopia and Saudi Arabia. Of particular concern is Ethiopia. In the second half of last year, Ethiopian Satellite Television (ESAT), a politically focused media outlet, was targeted by Hacking Team malware.Claudio Guarnieri, a security researcher who contributed to the Citizen Lab report, suspects the Ethiopian government adopted Hacking Team technology to replace a suite of tools known as FinFisher, created by British company Gamma International, which is nowexporting tools out of Switzerland. “My assumption is Hacking Team is getting a lot of customers FinFisher lost,” Guarnieri says.Documents seen by the Guardian show that an ESAT contributor found FinFisher malware on their computer in mid-2013. They claimed a subsequent investigation detected FinFisher had been activated on their PC in mid-2012.Hacking Team and Gamma are just two of many European and US companies that make up the $5bn digital surveillance industry. Gamma’s pricey FinFisher tools, costing as much as €255,000 (£215,000) for use of the FinSpy tool with support, were previously found by Citizen Lab in use in a wide range of countries, including Bahrain, Egypt, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Turkmenistan and Vietnam.•Is the global cost of cybercrime really £266bn a year? No, it isn’t•US accuses Russian hacker Evgeniy Bogachev of $100m fraud•Chinese military group linked to hacks of satellite companiesHuman rights activists aren’t impressed. “What is worrying is that much of this offensive digital capability is being sold as lawful intercept software in countries where rule of law is not robust,” says Citizen Lab researcher Morgan Marquis-Boire.Gamma has not responded to a request for comment. But legal counsel for Hacking Team, Eric Rabe, says over email that the company stops supplying its services when they are used for “gross human rights abuses”. Nor does it “sell products to governments or to countries blacklisted by the US, EU, UN, Nato orAsean”.Yet when asked what blacklists Hacking Team uses, Rabe does not respond, nor does he reply to questions about the additional customers identified by Citizen Lab. Hacking Team has previously told the Guardian that “Hacking Team complies, in all its dealings, with all relevant UK legislation and regulation”.Smoking out RATsGovernments also have many of their own bespoke capabilities, creating highly sophisticated offensive software. The Stuxnet malware, uncovered in 2010, is the most infamous. Believed to have been the work of US and Israeli agents, it disrupted centrifuges at an Iranian nuclear plant. Few similar examples been uncovered since.But other government attacks have not been so well hidden, especially those using commonly available remote access Trojans, less sophisticated versions of Hacking Team-type technology. The Guardian has learned of many such attacks ostensibly launched by repressive regimes in the past two years.In the UAE, activists were repeatedly targeted by the SpyNet RAT in 2013, according to Bill Marczak, another member of the Citizen Lab team, who is based out of the University of California, Berkeley. They were sent a video of a fake protest via email. Once clicked on, the videos played, but the RATs were silently downloaded on to victims’ PCs.The video even mentioned Ahmed Mansoor, the UAE activist targeted by Hacking Team malware in 2012. Marczak believes the UAE administration has moved away from using costly Hacking Team kit to this “off-the-shelf” software. Among recent victims was the wife of a political detainee in the country, Marczak says.Eva Galperin, security expert from the Electronic Frontier Foundation, was recentlytargeted by similar malware, along with an Associated Press journalist and a Vietnamese pro-democracy blogger. She is convinced the Trojan sent to her via email, purporting to come from charity Oxfam, actually came from Vietnamese government hackers.Tibetans continue to be battered by such attacks too. Security firm AlienVault’s own research has been used as a lure to convince email recipients into clicking on links that lead to infection, says the company’s research director, Jaime Blasco.Previously undocumented attacks stemming from 2012 hit a range of targets, including the Tibetan government in exile, the Tibetan People’s Mass Movement and the Bureau du Tibet in Brussels. The same hackers went after Voice of America, the official broadcaster of the US government, according to Blasco.Elsewhere, the Guardian has learned that in in January, a number of Ukrainian websites disseminating information on the protests against former President Viktor Yanukovych’s regime were taken down with distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks, which use infected machines, known as bots, to flood web servers with traffic to force them offline.Access to botnets is sold on underground forums, or they can be created by infecting large numbers of machines, which are tied together with attackers’ command and control systems.Fighting digital armsGovernments’ arsenals are replete with hacking tools then, some sophisticated, others blunt. And they are regularly used the world over, often by repressive regimes. But the fight against the use of digital arms on citizens is gathering steam. While Citizen Lab and the EFF are shining a light on the wide-scale use of government-controlled malware, others are taking action at both technical and political levels.In Europe, MEP Marietje Schaake has launched theStop Digital Arms Tradeinitiative, supported by UK-based non-profit Privacy International. She is lobbying hard on acquiring legally binding agreements across member states to enforce export controls on the likes of Hacking Team and Gamma.Currently, “they are doing very little” to address the issues, Schaake notes. “We have to preserve and defend our values and that’s why it’s even more surprising is that there is basically no regulation on the production or export of what I call digital arms. Often people do not realise the EU is not seeking to curb this trade,” she says.There has been one notable political success in the fight against this software. Thanks to recommendations from the UK and French governments, the Wassenaar Arrangement, a multilateral export regime controlling weapons, accepted two new categories. One covered “advanced persistent threat software” and offensive cyber tools”, the other “IP network surveillance systems”. It remains to be seen which signatories adopt export controls, but activists are upbeat.Privacy International is taking the fight to Gamma too. Following official complaints about the export of the technology, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development is currently deciding whether or not its rules have been broken by Gamma’s exports. The German National Contact Point for the OECD decided not to investigate, but the UK side is continuing to look into the matter.For technical assistance, Netherlands-based Digital Defenders,founded in 2012by international development organisation Hivos, offers recourse to those under attack from governments. It stepped in to help those Ukrainian sites hit by DDoS attacks, which wished to remain anonymous.A Digital Defenders consultant acted as a middle man to help bring in Google’s new Shield offering, part of the internet giant’s altruistic efforts to protect activists, to prevent future DDoS strikes. Founder Fieke Jansen says the organisation, which has secured financial support from the US, Dutch, Estonian, Latvian, Czech and Swiss governments, now has its own DDoS-mitigation service, which can be used for free.Over in the US, a crew of security professionals are establishing a “peace corps for hackers”, as one of the founders, Josh Corman, describes it. Currently calledI Am The Cavalry, it will look at helping citizens on a range of security issues, focusing on public safety and making it more difficult for any kind of attack to take place, especially ones that have a physical impact. Corman believes the rush to connect everything to the internet, from medical devices to cars, is leaving people vulnerable and no one, especially not government, is coming to save them.Finding common groundThough these groups agree citizens need greater protection from the myriad threats facing them, they do not agree on how to secure it. Any kind of regulation is likely to be met with scepticism from the security community, largely because governments are the biggest buyers of legally accepted offensive tools.An outright ban of exploit code might have negative consequences. It could hamper the work of security researchers investigating those tools, according to Galperin. “I am unable to come up with a legislative framework that would make it illegal to do this that would not also have tremendous impact on free speech and on the work of perfectly legitimate security researchers.”One option outside of enforcing a ban could be to implement a strict licence regime, whereby certain technologies would be classed as potentially detrimental to human rights. Manufacturers of those tools would have to be granted a licence by a public authority for exporting goods, Schaake suggests.Despite its disparate views, the anti-surveillance movement, in part inspired by the Edward Snowden leaks, is in an ebullient mood, confident of some kind of consensus on slowing the rise of the offensive digital surveillance industry. “I’m confident sooner or later we will turn this ship around,” Schaake adds.•Blackphone: can a mobile ever truly be hack-proof?
BitTorrent technology may be forever be a byword for online piracy in many quarters of the creative industries, but BitTorrent the company would rather be seen as a powerful legal tool for digital marketing.This week, it has announced a milestone for its BitTorrent bundle initiative, which helps musicians, filmmakers and other creators distribute some of their work for free, often in exchange for email addresses to add to their promotional mailing lists.BitTorrent says that its bundles, including those by artists including Madonna, Public Enemy, Moby, De La Soul and Diplo, have now reached 100m downloads and streams to fans.&quot;Today, 24 hours in BitTorrent Bundle equals over 554k impressions, 167k downloads, and more than 16k streams,&quot;wrote BitTorrent&apos;s chief creative officer Matt Masonin a blog post.&quot;Monthly Bundle site visitors have increased from 2.1 million, to 25 million (+1,095%). 25% of visitors share the content with their network across some social channel. And fans are coming back, over and over again. 75% of Bundles site traffic is coming from returning users.&quot;What those bundles are actually giving away varies. Madonna didn&apos;t give away music, but rather a documentary film called Secretprojectrevolution. Moby gave away three songs and audio &quot;stems&quot; from his latest album, so fans could create their own remixes.Public Enemy also went down the remixable stems route; De La Soul gave away a digital mixtape and documentary film about pioneering hip-hop producer J Dilla; andCut/Copy distributed a music videoalong with the 3D printing files for making the video&apos;s characters.BitTorrent has always argued that its filesharing technology is neutral, so the company shouldn&apos;t be blamed for online piracy. At a time when music and film rightsholders are continuing to pursue torrent-tracker websites, it&apos;s not a view shared by some executives within those industries.BitTorrent is using its 100m milestone to try to persuade more artists that it&apos;s a friend not a foe. &quot;We’re idealists here. But we believe in technology as a form of connection; not control. That analog business models shouldn’t be a barrier to culture kept in common. That bandwidth should never be a barrier to creativity,&quot; wrote Mason.&quot;In the days after Net Neutrality, those sound like radical statements. The fact of the matter is that they’re not. Decentralized technologies like BitTorrent can unblock the connection between artists and fans; stripping away the need to censor or sizecap creativity.&quot;•BitTorrent says Netflix is hogging bandwidth – not &apos;beating&apos; it
More than 250 new emoji characters will be coming to smartphones and computers, afterthe announcement of Unicode 7.0 by the Unicode Consortium, the industry body devoted to the development and promotion of software standards.Among the new characters are animals, including a chipmunk and a dove; symbols for weather, such as a thermometer and a tornado; and some &quot;miscellaneous&quot; symbols, including the euphemistically named &quot;raised hand with part between middle and ring fingers&quot; – perhaps better known as the Vulcan salute from Star Trek:Some of the new Unicode characters. Photograph: UnicodeWhile the descriptions and reference designs for the new symbols are set by Unicode, the actual implementation can vary widely between device manufacturers. In contrast to emoji as they ship on smartphones and modern operating systems, the unicode images are never in colour, and are usually little more than simple line drawings.It is likely that some manufacturers will make the most of the update to fix other long-standing issues with emoji. In March, Apple apologised for only having two non-white faces in its implementation of the characters, and promised to include more in a future update, after a petition pointed out the lack of people of colour in the company&apos;s default set.&quot;Of the more than 800 emojis, the only two resembling people of colour are a guy who looks vaguely Asian and another in a turban,&quot;the petition argued. &quot;There&apos;s a white boy, girl, man, woman, elderly man, elderly woman, blond boy, blonde girl, and, we&apos;re pretty sure, Princess Peach. But when it comes to faces outside of yellow smileys, there&apos;s a staggering lack of minority representation.&quot;Unicode version 7.0 does also include additions outside the realm of emoji. The consortium says that &quot;major enhancements were made to the Indic script properties,&quot; and also adds &quot;the new currency symbols for the Russian ruble and Azerbaijani manat&quot; and &quot;23 new lesser-used and historic scripts… extending support for written languages of north America, China, India, other Asian countries, and Africa.&quot;
Free-to-play (or &quot;freemium&quot;) games are the Marmite of the games industry.Well, they would be if Marmite was an industry worth billions of dollars, which provoked long, angry arguments on the internet about why it&apos;s an inherently exploitative condiment preying on casual toast-eaters&apos; gullibility.Maybe the Marmite analogy doesn&apos;t really work.But still, free-to-play games: you either love them or loathe them. The former group is much bigger, but the latter tends to be louder online. Freemium can be a very touchy subject.We may soon arrive at a point, though, where the discussion of freemium gaming focuses on good games and bad games, rather than trying to judge the entire business model in a broad sweep of goodness or badness.Freemium games are certainly lucrative. Three of the key companies making these games – King, Supercell and GungHo Online – reported collective revenues of $4.4bn in 2013 alone.The upper reaches of the top grossing charts on Apple and Google&apos;s app stores, meanwhile, are dominated by freemium games, with Minecraft seemingly the only paid game able to maintain a consistent presence in the top 50.Critics of free-to-play as a model argue that many freemium games are designed for monetisation rather than fun, meanwhile, with countless psychological tricks designed to elicit as many payments as possible from their players.The comments section on any piece about free-to-play here is usually bustling, but I thought this may be a good time for a proper open thread, to share your experiences of why you have made in-app purchases within mobile games, and how you felt about it.What have you bought, in which games, and why? Are you more inclined to spend money if a game is less aggressive about nudging you to pay? Have you ever spent money and swiftly regretted it?If you&apos;re a Candy Crush Saga or Clash of Clans player, how much have you spent – or if you&apos;ve spent nothing at all, how tough did you find it?If you&apos;re a committed free-to-play critic, what forms of in-app purchases (if any) do you think are acceptable? What freemium games have you seen that you thought handled their business model gracefully and without exploitation?The comments section is open for your views, and it&apos;s not just for fun: your views will help influence The Guardian&apos;s coverage of this area, as we talk to more developers about this space in the months ahead.
Will.i.am&apos;s iPhone camera accessorymay not have taken the gadget world by storm, but his next technology product could make more of an impact: a 3D printer that sources its materials partly from recycled plastic bottles.TheEkocycle Cubeprinter is being made by 3D Systems, the US-based manufacturer that announced Will.i.am as its chief creative officer in January this year. Coca-Cola is also a partner in the project, which is an offshoot from its existing Ekocycle venture with the Black Eyed Peas star.3D Systems will start selling the device in the second half of 2014 with a launch price of $1,199 (£706). Its cartridges will include filament – 3D printing&apos;s equivalent of ink for traditional printers – partly made from used plastic bottles.The company says each cartridge will contain 25% of &quot;post-consumer recycled materials&quot;, using an average of three bottles.The Ekocycle Cube is very on-brand, printing objects of up to six inches cubed in red, black, white or &quot;natural&quot; colours. Will.i.am is designing 25 &quot;fashion, music and tech minded accessories&quot; for buyers of the device, which will also use the Cubify smartphone app to browse and print designs.&quot;We will make it cool to recycle, and we will make it cool to make products using recycled materials,&quot; said Will.i.am in a statement. &quot;This is the beginning of a more sustainable 3D-printed lifestyle. Waste is only waste if we waste it.&quot;It&apos;s the star&apos;s latest technology venture, following on from his &quot;director of creative innovation&quot; role with Intel, announced in January 2011. Will.i.am also had aminority stake in Beats Electronics, the headphones brand recently bought by Apple for $3bn.His other tech projects include building social media site Dipdive in 2008; launching apps developer Will.i.apps in 2011 to make a music video app for the Black Eyed Peas; and producing a range of i.am+ iPhone accessories in 2013.In April this year, heshowed off a prototype smartwatchduring an appearance on British comedian Alan Carr&apos;s chat show, telling the audience: &quot;I started the company myself. I funded it, used my own money to develop it.&quot;Inan appearance (via Skype) at music industry conference Midemin February, Will.i.am said that more musicians should be following the lead of Beats founders Jimmy Iovine and Dr Dre in getting into hardware.&quot;It’s sad that as a collective industry, we don’t do our own hardware. It’s only three people: Jim, Dre and myself – that’s Beats – that have hardware,&quot; he said.&quot;I surround myself with megasupergeeks, so we can make and market hardware and things like that. Maybe I’m chasing something I would probably never catch, but I’ve been here before when I was in the ghetto chasing the dream of starting a band.&quot;•30 things being 3D-printed right now (that aren&apos;t guns)•Will.i.am: &apos;I want to write code!&apos;
It's Tuesday.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNokia to Microsoft: brand transition &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh on the details of the Microsoft-Nokia purchase, quoting from the Microsoft brand advice:Microsoft brand will only replace the Nokia brand in product, applications and experiences when Microsoft has launched a new product into the market.The Lumia and Asha brands and products, the Mobile Phone portfolio, including Nokia X, sold under the Nokia brand will be transferred to Microsoft as part of the transaction.You may now say, "I work for Microsoft and I work on the Microsoft devices business." Do not say you work on the "Nokia business".Based on my understanding, all Lumia and Nokia X products currently on the market will continue to carry the Nokia brand for some time. However, no new products from either portfolio will carry the Nokia brand. Interestingly, the bulk of Lumia and Nokia X shipments are concentrated in markets where the Nokia brand holds a lot of value (India, Europe, Latin America, etc.). Needless to say, this could spark a steep decline in Windows Phone's market share over the next 12-18 months.More than 30 arrested after police intercept one million organized crime BlackBerry messages &gt;&gt; The Globe and MailMore than a million encoded BlackBerry messages have been viewed by police as part of a crackdown against Quebec organized crime.In arresting more than 30 people Thursday, the RCMP took the rare step of publicly highlighting its interception of the Canadian company's supposedly secure "PIN-to-PIN" communications.…On Friday, the [Canadian] Supreme Court will weigh in on whether police need to first get a judge's permission to compel Internet companies to disclose basic customer information, which can now be handed over without any warrant. Parliament is on the cusp of passing a law that would explicitly shield corporations from any liability they could face by yielding records to government authorities.Chinese gov't reveals Microsoft's secret list of Android-killer patents &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaJoe Mullin:For more than three years now, Microsoft has held to the line that it has loads of patents that are infringed by Google's Android operating system. "Licensing is the solution," wrote the company's head IP honcho in 2011, explaining Microsoft's decision to sue Barnes &amp; Noble's Android-powered Nook reader.Microsoft has revealed a few of those patents since as it has unleashed litigation against Android device makers. But for the most part, they've remained secret. That's led to a kind of parlor game where industry observers have speculated about what patents Microsoft might be holding over Android.That long guessing game is now over. A list of hundreds of patents that Microsoft believes entitle it to royalties over Android phones, and perhaps smartphones in general, has been published on a Chinese language website.Why Amazon's streaming music service is a bigger deal than you might think &gt;&gt; Music Industry BlogMark Mulligan:Amazon's inclusion of music streaming in its Prime offering speaks volumes about the perceived importance of music as a product to the retailer. Music used to be the crucial first rung on the ladder for Amazon customers. Buyers would start off with a low consideration purchase item like a CD or DVD and the next thing they knew they were buying microwaves and computers. Music is still plays an important role in Amazon's customer life cycle, but it is no longer a product needs paying for with a separate payment. Music has become the 'feels like free' soundtrack to a video subscription with the added benefit of free shipping for online shopping.The SSD endurance experiment: casualties on the way to a petabyte &gt;&gt; The Tech ReportI feel for the subjects of our SSD Endurance Experiment. They didn't volunteer for this life. These consumer-grade drives could have ended up in a corporate desktop or grandma's laptop or even an enthusiast's PC. They could have spent their days saving spreadsheets and caching Internet files and occasionally making space for new Steam downloads. Instead, they ended up in our labs, on the receiving end of a torturous torrent of writes designed to kill them.Talk about a rough life.Neat idea. SSDs turn out to be pretty robust.Beautiful illusions: the economics of uberX &gt;&gt; Justin SingerThe story of the for-hire vehicle industry (FHV) has been one long march toward commoditization, with drivers always getting the short end of an increasingly smaller stick. Since the early 1900s, taxi drivers have morphed from employees (prior to deregulation) to independent contractor-lessors (following deregulation) to sole proprietors (following Uber).10 With each transformation, the industry has shifted profits away from the drivers while pushing onto them a greater share of costs and liabilities. This is why drivers tend to push for medallion systems: because only by capping the supply of vehicles can full-time drivers be assured a living wage. Market equilibrium in a wholly deregulated taxi industry comes only when the desperate have driven out the good. The result is something that few cities would prefer to the imperfect gnarl that is a regulated taxi market.I recognize that it's not exactly in fashion to side with regulation over laissez faire, and in many instances, I wouldn't. There are limits to markets, however, and the taxi industry presents an especially vivid example of that dynamic.He also goes very precisely into the finances - which show that Uber isn't a magic money tree for taxi drivers; instead they'll still be worse off (perhaps on longer hours) than "official" taxis.The machine that's saving the history of recorded sound &gt;&gt; The AtlanticAdrienne LaFrance:IRENElives in the cool basement of the library's James Madison building. It looks, well, like a machine—all metal and lasers and motor — a little bit like a cross between a microscope and the guts of a home printer. How IRENE works: It's basically a digital-imaging device. So, say you have a vinyl record you want to preserve. IRENE scans the topography of the disc, and sends the images it produces to a computer. Separate software on the computer then converts those images into sound."You have optics that magnify the surface of the disc," Alyea said. "You have a laser  that actually drives a motor that moves the whole system up and down like the autofocus on your camera. Most of these discs are not flat at all and there's a fairly small area of focus. Some light comes in here and is split and shone directly on the surface of the disc, and then there's a camera." More simply, IRENE is a mapping device that tracks the terrain of a recorded medium—like the pattern of the grooves etched onto a flat vinyl record.Is Tony Fadell the next Steve Jobs or ... the next Larry Page? &gt;&gt; FortuneRandy Komisar, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, remembers staring at a black velvet cloth draped over a product. Fadell would remove it only after he'd methodically set up the business case.For Apple cognoscenti, the cloak-over-the-device shtick was an overt homage to Steve Jobs. The late CEO routinely shrouded products, in public demos as well as in his own conference room, in order to build excitement for the big reveal. Yet when Fadell pulled back the veil to display a Styrofoam prototype of a round thermostat, Komisar was crestfallen. "My emotions couldn't have been lower," he says. He perked up, however, when he saw Fadell's last slide: "After the thermostat we plan to do the same thing for every unloved product in the home and make them all magical." Says Komisar: "Then I got it. Nest was a Trojan horse into the home. In 48 hours we had a check for Tony."Thorough profile.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Bitcoin has stared down an existential threat, after a consortium of miners briefly gained enough processing power to theoretically destroy the currency.For a few hours on Friday, mining pool Ghash.io controlled 51% of all the processing power being used to perform the calculations that keep bitcoin secure. If it had abused that power, it would have had the ability to indirectly take money from other users, for instance by buying something and then rewriting history so that the purchase never happened.But shortly after the threshold was breached, some members of the mining pool pulled their computing power from the group, averting – or at least, delaying – catastrophe.&quot;The high level of combined hash power in the Ghash pool is concerning to many participants in the system,&quot; said one such member, BitFury, an industrial bitcoin mining firm. &quot;As a leader and trusted partner in the bitcoin system, BitFury has decided to transfer some of its hashing power away from Ghash to help reduce these concerns.&quot;The bitcoin network runs with the aid of peer participants performing a function called &quot;mining&quot;, which involves spending large amounts of processing power in order to verify transactions as accurate.Miners are given financial rewards for doing so, and since there are so many of them, it is typically impossible to force a fake transaction into the bitcoin ledger: more than half the processing power of the network would need to verify the fake transaction.But many miners lump their processing power together, in &quot;pools&quot; such as Ghash, in order to increase the chances of getting rewards. While that makes financial sense for any individual miner, it has long posed the threat of ending the decentralised aspect that makes bitcoin so popular.For the brief period when Ghash had 51% of the network, the security of bitcoin wasn&apos;t a result of its impressive mathematical background, but merely the trust that the users of Ghash would notice and respond if the pool&apos;s administrators decided to try and abuse their position.It&apos;s not the first timethe &quot;impossible&quot; attack on bitcoin has been scarily close. In January, Ghash hit 45% of the network, and was forced to &quot;take steps&quot; to prevent 51% from being breached. Those steps were apparently insufficient.There is no evidence that Ghash actually tried to abuse its position, and once contributors like BitFury pulled their computers, its proportion of the mining dropped to a healthier 40%. That has led some experts, such as Andreessen Horowitz&apos;s Chris Dixon, todub the problem&quot;a minor issue.&quot;&quot;It would be very hard for the pool to pull off more than a minor short term attack,&quot;Dixon tweeted Sunday night.The real protection isn&apos;t technology but economics. Someone controlling 51% of the bitcoin network could theoretically extort or otherwise gain control of a large quantity of bitcoins. But defenders point out that the very action of performing a &quot;51% attack&quot; would demolish the value of bitcoin to such an extent that it would be impossible to profit from the attack.That won&apos;t keep it safe from troublemakers, but could ensure that organised attempts to recreate Ghash&apos;s 51% – or steal it from under them – flounder in the preparation.FXThe 51% attack is the first headline news to happen to bitcoin in a long time, but even as the media grows tired of the currency, development continues.Users ofGoogle FinanceandYahoo Financecan now use the sites to convert between bitcoin and USD dollars. Google goes one step further, treating bitcoin identically to conventional currencies, offering users a selection of news headlines alongside the latest price.Both firms are several months behind Microsoft, whichadded bitcoin to its Bing finance product in February, and even the normally-measured financial types at Bloomberg, which included the cryptocurrency in February.Tellingly, neither Google nor Yahoo&apos;s press offices were aware the changes had been made when the Guardian contacted them, though Google later responded to say &quot;we&apos;re always working to provide more of the financial data people are looking for.&quot;iBitcoinOn Monday, the first bitcoin apps to take advantage of Apple&apos;s new rules allowing cryptocurrencies on the app store began to appear.Coinpocket was previously only accessible as an HTML5 web app, to get around the restrictions, but now the wallet app, which lets users spend and receive their bitcoins, is relaunched as a native iPhone app. The new version also includes the ability to spend bitcoin by scanning QR codes.Perhaps more importantly, apps which let users spend bitcoin for digital goods have also turned up on the app store. Betcoin and eGifter both allow bitcoin purchases, the former as part of a simple betting game and the latter for gift cards.While the apps might still be pulled by Apple after the fact, their existence on the App Store could signal another major change in direction from the company.•Bitcoin: A life in hacks
With Amazon expected to unveil its first smartphone this week at an event in Seattle, the company has been making its pitch to app developers with some new figures from its Android app store.The store, which runs on Amazon&apos;s Kindle Fire tablets as well as other companies&apos; Android smartphones and tablets, now has more than 240,000 apps and games available – nearly three times its total a year ago.While that still pales into comparison with the million-plus apps available on Android&apos;s official Google Play store and Apple&apos;s App Store for iOS, Amazon says that it has doubled the number of developers signing up for its &quot;Appstore&quot; every month in the last year.The company has also commissioned a survey from research firm IDC to back up its pitch, claiming that 65% of developers making apps for its Kindle Fire are making &quot;the same or better&quot; revenues from Amazon&apos;s store than on rivals, with 74% saying their average revenue per app per user is also better.Those particular figures can be taken with a pinch of salt – company commissions survey that shockingly suggests company&apos;s own service is better than rivals – although mobile analytics company App Annie claimed in April 2013 thatAmazon&apos;s store was already a &quot;robust app ecosystem&quot;.It&apos;s the fact that Amazon has commissioned and announced the survey that is more interesting, showing its continued desire to court app developers. That long-rumoured smartphone launch is one obvious reason why.The research&apos;s release also comes at a time when Amazon is facing criticism from other creative industries over its hardball negotiating tactics withbook publisher Hachetteandfilm distributor Warner Bros.While those disputes remain unsettled, Amazon is preparing for its event on 18 June in Seattle, which has been teased with a YouTube video showing people looking down at something positioned carefully off-screen.Earlier in the year, reports suggested thatAmazon&apos;s first smartphone would be unveiled in June, then go on sale in September, with features including multiple front-facing cameras and 3D visual effects.This week, areport by the New York Timesnoted that Amazon chief executive Jeff Bezos had sent a children&apos;s book, Mr. Pine&apos;s Purple House, to attendees of the launch event, with a note saying &quot;I think you&apos;ll agree that the world is a better place when things are a little bit different&quot;.Online shopping and reading ebooks are expected to be key features for the new device. Amazon is clearly hoping to tempt even more developers to make apps for it too.•Amazon reports soaring earnings amid batch of new initiatives
Tax breaks on video games production will create and protect more than 10,000 jobs in and around the UK gaming industry, according to new calculations by Tiga, the games lobbying body.The government will also benefit through receiving £490m in tax receipts over the next five years, while the tax breaks being introduced in the current tax year will cost just £129m - a net gain of £361m - over the same period, says Tiga, which forecasts that UK games studios will make an extra investment of £188m during that time.The new data, revealed exclusively to the Guardian, comes just as the government in Quebec, Canada,slashed tax breaks for &quot;English-speaking&quot; gamesfrom 30% to 25% - almost the same as the UK&apos;s 25% - as part of efforts to make $500m savings to its public finances. However, it is keeping a 37% break on &quot;French-speaking&quot; games.Richard Wilson, chief executive of Tiga, predicted that the Canadian move would lead to an extra boost for the UK economy as publishers consider relocating projects, and personnel look to the UK for jobs.&quot;I know of one UK chief executive who has already had calls from people based in Canada looking for work here,&quot; Wilson told the Guardian.Montreal, in Quebec, is home to a number of multinational games studios including Ubisoft, Square Enix and Warner. UK games developers have lost staff to them in the past five years - but could now see those return.Tiga estimates that the UK&apos;s tax breaks on video games will create 2,000 new development jobs, and 3,700 &quot;indirect&quot; jobs in related industries, while protecting 1,600 development jobs and 3,000 &quot;indirect&quot; jobs that would otherwise be lost, either to overseas studios or closure.The coalition introduced a guaranteed five-year tax relief scheme for video games studios in the UK from April 2014 following seven years of lobbying by Tiga and others in the game industry, who said that they were losing investment and staff to other countries which did offer tax breaks.They argued that films and other creative industries already enjoyed similar tax breaks - and that providing them to games would be a recognition of the UK&apos;s important position.Tiga has substantially raised its forecast for jobs, revenues and tax receipts that will be created by the UK&apos;s tax breaks following a survey of the games industry.It previously forecast that they would &quot;create and protect&quot; 4,661 jobs, encourage £188m in additional investment, and generate a net £76m in tax receipts over five years.&quot;These revised figures are welcome and important news for the UK games industry. Games Tax Relief is now set to lead to an upsurge in investment in the games industry, resulting in more jobs and more culturally British games being developed,&quot; said Tiga chairman Jason Kingsley, who is also chief executive and creative director at games studio Rebellion.&quot;This is great news for the UK games industry and for the wider economy. Now it is up to developers and digital publishers to demonstrate what these figures look like in action in the form of new games and new jobs and to drive our high technology and creative industry to new heights of achievement.”Tiga began lobbying for games tax breaks in 2008, pointing out how the UK had fallen behind Canada in games development because of the latter&apos;s deployment of tax breaks on employee salaries.•Games tax breaks: what they mean and what happens now
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps and games to have emerged on Apple&apos;s App Store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for Android apps instead, browse the archives of the weeklyBest Android Appsroundups.APPSGreat British Bee Count (Free)The latest in a growing line of crowdsourcing-for-good apps. In this case, the good is helping Friends of the Earth and its partners build a map of how healthy (or not) bees are around the UK. Its app is used to track the bees you see in your local area, then send that data back to the scientists.iPhoneLine Selfie Sticker (Free)If you don’t use messaging app Line, or think selfies are silly, this definitely isn’t for you. For people who like both, this is likely to be an essential download: an app for taking photos of yourself and turning them into digital “stickers” to be sent within Line, and also shared on other social networks.iPhoneRed Hot + Bach (Free)This new iPad app is a project from AIDS charity Red Hot – its latest musical venture. Here, it’s based on an album of Bach-related music from modern artists, with the app enabling you to listen, play with the music itself, and read up on Bach’s life and times.iPadNetvibes Reader and social analytics (Free)Netvibes: a blast from the past for social media veterans. Its latest incarnation is an app: “both a dashboard for all of your apps, images and tweets, and a reader for all of your real-time articles and posts”. Something aimed at people in social media-related jobs, then, but keen RSS users may wish to check it out too.iPhone / iPadHitch (Free)Tired of Tinder? Hitch could be another port of call for people looking for new ways to date. Based on Facebook, it encourages people to match their friends up. Once matched, they can chat anonymously or reveal their identities before deciding whether to meet up.iPhoneSky Sports Football Score Centre – Brazil Edition (Free)Just in time for the big tournament, Sky Sports’ new World Cup app makes it onto iOS. It’s a dedicated app for scores, live text commentary, tables, photos and other data from Brazil, complete with an option to set your preferred country as “My Team”.iPhoneFitbay (Free)Sounds like an online auction site for people to flog unused exercise bikes and treadmills, but isn’t. Instead, this is an app aiming to help you find clothes that fit your specific body shape, matching you with the recommendations of people like you around the world. Plenty of potential.iPhoneMusikki (Free)Looking to keep tabs on lots of favourite musicians? Musikki is hoping to be one of your ports of call on iPhone, pulling in news, videos, concert details and song previews, with plans to add in streaming services and new release alerts in the future. It’s neat and tidily designed.iPhoneUnread for iPad (£2.99)Quite a few Feedly-using friends have been scrambling for an alternative news-reader, following its problems with hackers last week. Unread is the latest contender on iPad, an elegant full-screen reading app with clever touches including a persistent web browser and detailed accessibility features.iPadTop10 Hotels (Free)“The ULTIMATE hotel booking app,” claims the App Store listing for this, which is quite a claim in a crowded category. What looks interesting here is its tight focus (yes, the top 10 hotels in various cities and destinations) as well as its ability to pull in photos, social network reviews and deals from other booking sites.iPhoneGAMESBroken Age (£6.99)Known to many gamers as “that Kickstarter project that raised $3.3m” when it was known as just Double Fine Adventure, it’s since been renamed as Broken Age, and now it’s on iPad as well as computers. It’s a beautiful-looking traditional adventure game, with humour and puzzles. This is its first act, with the second to be added as an in-app purchase later.iPadAngry Birds Epic (Free + IAP)The latest Angry Birds game sees no physics-based flinging. Instead, it’s a roleplaying game (RPG) that sees you building up a team of birds and attacking pigs through other means. Along the way, you craft and upgrade weapons, learn new skills and get to grips with its turn-based battles system.iPhone / iPadKing of the Course (Free + IAP)EA knows a thing or two about golf games from its stewardship of the Tiger Woods franchise. Its new mobile game takes a new direction – free-to-play – with famous courses, neat touchscreen controls and, ahem, boosts. Well, there had to be something to justify the in-app purchases, presumably…iPhone / iPadVVVVVV (£1.99)Ever played Super Hexagon? This is the new game from its developer Terry Cavanagh, and if anything is picking up even more buzz. It’s a platform game that’s been available since 2010 on other devices, with graphics reminiscent of the 1980s, and gameplay that grips you quickly then won’t let you go.iPhone / iPadFlick Soccer Brazil (Free + IAP)First of a smattering of football games in this World Cup month. Flick Soccer Brazil comes from developer Full Fat: a new game in its very-good Flick Soccer franchise. You’ll be flicking balls past the goalkeeper or at the crossbar over several modes, even if the inclusion of “Brazilian bikini babes” feels a bit unnecessary.iPhoneDamn Little Town (Free + IAP)This “tactical board game” is justifiably causing a stir among mobile gamers this week, with a number of early reviews mentioning it in the same breath as Carcassonne – and if you haven’t played that game, this is high praise. It sees you building a town, placing settlers, then escaping when it gets “corrupted”. It’s very addictive, with a single in-app purchase unlocking the full version.iPhone / iPadDemocracy 3 (£6.99)Democracy 3 sounds complicated: a full-blown simulation of running a country, demanding you solve crime, unemployment, terrorism and climate change among other challenges. Ported from PC, it sees you adjusting your policies using a clever slider bar-based system, while trying to win over voters. A lot to chew on, but worth the effort.iPadQuizTix: World Football (Free + IAP)QuizTix is a new brand of “collectable quiz” games for Android and iOS, with this the third following versions focused on pop music and movies. Here, you’ll be answering football trivia in a range of categories, taking on friends or asking them for help with tricky questions.iPhone / iPadGreat Little War Game 2 (£1.99)Developer Rubicon Development’s little and big war games have plenty of fans, and this latest one looks like it won’t disappoint them. It’s another turn-based strategy game where you take your troops into battle over 60 missions. “Just jump in and start shooting,” advises its App Store listing. And thankfully, it really is that accessible.iPhone / iPadTank Battle: East Front 1945 (£1.49)Yep, more war. This is part of a series of second world war games from developer Hunted Cow Studios, with this one enabling you to take control of the German or Russian forces in 1945, over a series of missions. With plenty of units to master, it looks a rewarding experience for wargame veterans and newcomers alike.iPhone / iPadThose are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on iOS this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
Hackers have demanded a ransom of €30,000 (£24,000) from Domino&apos;s Pizza after stealing personal data on more than 600,000 of its French and Belgian customers.The data was allegedly stolen during a break-in last week,acknowledged by Domino’s France, which saw 592,000 French and 58,000 Belgian customer records exposed.A posting by the hackers on text-hosting site Pastebin claims that the stolen data includes customers&apos; full names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, passwords, delivery instructions and even favourite pizza toppings.&quot;Domino&apos;s Pizza uses an encryption system for data. However, we suffered a hack by seasoned professionals and it is likely that they could decode the encryption system including passwords,&quot;admitted the official Twitter account for Domino’s France.“This is why we recommend that you change your password for security reasons. We strongly regret this situation and take illegal access very seriously.&quot;&apos;Domino&apos;s Pizza has until Monday at 8PM CET to pay us&apos;The hackers, a group calling themselves Rex Mundi, posted a sample of the stolen user data along with a demand for €30,000 to not publish the full set.“If you&apos;re a @dominos_pizzafr customer, u may want to know that we have offered Domino&apos;s not to publish your data in exchange for €30,000,” Rex Mundi posted on Twitter before its account was suspended.“Domino&apos;s Pizza has until Monday at 8PM CET to pay us. If they do not do so, we will post the entirety of the data in our possession on the internet,” the hackers said.Domino’s Netherlands spokesperson Andre ten Wolde toldDe Standaardthat the company would not be paying the ransom and that financial data had not been stolen.&apos;Theft of personal information is bad news&apos;A Domino’s UK spokesperson said that Domino’s France and Belgium are not part of the same franchise group as Domino’s Pizza in the UK, which is operated by Domino’s Pizza Enterprises, which holds the “master franchise” for Domino’s Pizza in Australia, New Zealand, France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Monaco.It is currently unknown whether user data from Australia, New Zealand, the Netherlands and Monaco was also compromised.Domino’s Pizza Group owns and operates the Domino’s Pizza franchises in the UK and Ireland as well as Germany, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg.“The data hacking is isolated to the Domino’s franchise in France and Belgium, and no customer credit card or financial information was compromised,&quot; said a Domino’s Pizza Group PLC spokesperson in a statement emailed to the Guardian. &quot;Domino’s customers in the UK and Republic of Ireland are not affected by this incident. The security of customer information is very important to us. We regularly test our UK website for penetration as part of the ongoing rigorous checks and continual routine maintenance of our online operations.”“Once again we have an example of how customer data, if not adequately secured, can fall into the wrong hands,” said David Emm, senior security researcher at Kaspersky Lab. “The fact that credit card details and other financial data weren’t stolen in this case is good, but the theft of personal information is bad news for customers too.”The Domino’s Pizza break-in is the latest attempt by the hacker group Rex Mundi to extort money from global companies by stealing user data. In 2012, the group stole and published online loan-applicant details from thousands of users from US payday loan company AmeriCash Advance.Belgian internet hosting company Alfa Hosting became another of Rex Mundi’s victims suffering a break-in this year leading to the names of 12,000 customers being published online.“One of the possibly more concerning things is that in a copy of the original notice the hacker group published, the passwords appear to be in plain text,&quot; said Jon French, security analyst at AppRiver. &quot;It’s possible they cracked or used rainbow tables to get the passwords, but if the passwords were actually stored in plain text, that’s a big no-no on Dominos part.&quot;&apos;Path of least resistance&apos;“Cybercriminals are after the money and will follow the path of least resistance to get to it. Usually this means stealing personal data which is often unencrypted and selling it on the black market, or in this case using it for cyber blackmail,” Jason Hart, vice president of Cloud Solutions at SafeNet.“The latest breach continues to raise public awareness of the need for encryption – not just of financial data, but also wider customer information. Breaches will happen and you can’t stop them. The issue is – are you able to protect your sensitive data when a breach happens?” explained Hart.Feedly, Evernote and many other sites and online services have recently been targets for extortion, with hackers demanding money to avoid being taken offline by distributed denial of service attacks, which overload the servers of the website or service, preventing users from access it.“This is slightly different to what we saw last week, when Feedly and Evernote were targeted by DDoS extortion attacks,” explained George Anderson, director of security firm Webroot.“Usually, organisations that give in and pay are spared being DDoSed – but only because following through with a DDoS attack requires slightly more effort on the hackers’ side, than publishing the data that has already been downloaded.”“Companies that fall victim to money extortion attacks should under no circumstances agree to play by hackers’ terms,” Anderson said.•TweetDeck bug could have made millions of users vulnerable• This article was updated at 1505 to include a statement from Domino&apos;s Pizza Group PLC.
Two Angry Birds Star Wars games showed that Rovio Entertainment&apos;s birds and pigs could slot neatly into another famous brand. Now the company is aiming to repeat the trick withAngry Birds Transformers.It&apos;s Rovio&apos;s latest partnership with Hasbro, and will include a mobile game, licensed merchandise and a range of toys later in 2014.Details of the game are being kept under wraps, although Hasbro has confirmed that it will focus on a battle of &quot;Autobirds and Deceptihogs across multiple formats and entertainment platforms&quot;.Initial artwork for the game – shown above – confirms that it will blend existing characters from the Angry Birds and Transformers universes, following on from the Angry Birds Star Wars games.&quot;This mash-up is going to appeal to those who grew up with the brand in the 80s, as well as fans of the brand today,&quot; said Blanca Juti, Rovio&apos;s chief marketing officer, in a statement.A key part of the two companies&apos; deal is the line of Telepods toys that will be sold alongside the smartphone and tablet game, with players able to scan in toys to have those characters appear in the game.In May, Rovio said that players ofAngry Birds Star Wars II– released in September 2013 – had been scanned in by players more than 30m times.Hasbro sold more than 1m Telepods in the first month after the game&apos;s release, and has since launched a separate line for the Angry Birds Go kart-racing game.Angry Birds Transformers will be joined by Angry Birds Stella – a sub-brand aimed more at women and girls – when it launches later in 2014. Rovio has also just releasedAngry Birds Epic, which takes its franchise into new genre territory: roleplaying games (RPGs).•Angry Birds: Rovio talks free-to-play, Stella and ToonsTV
The mayor of London expressed sympathy for the capital&apos;s taxi drivers in their fight against American cab-hire app Uber.Speaking at the launch of the London Tech Week, Boris Johnson told reporters that it would be &quot;difficult&quot; for him to ban Uber &quot;without the risk of a judicial review&quot;, but that he could see the point the taxi drivers were making in their protests earlier in June.&quot;I think it&apos;s a very difficult [question],&quot; he said. &quot;We&apos;ve gone to the high court to get a ruling on this, and the issue is basically: is the driver&apos;s mobile in the cab equivalent to a taxi meter? I can see why m&apos;learned friends might think that it is, because it&apos;s receiving data about, or it&apos;s calculating, the distance and time and the fare.&quot;And there are other lawyers who say that it isn&apos;t, and that was the advice of the counsel to TfL. And so we&apos;ve got a legal problem.&quot;London&apos;s black cab drivers pushed the capital to a standstill last Wednesday, over Transport for London&apos;s refusal to stop Uber using its smartphone app to calculate fares based on distance and time taken – something they say infringes their right to be the sole users of taxi meters in the city.But other cabbies say that the issue goes deeper than just Uber, and in fact relates to TfL&apos;s handling of minicabs in general.In ablog post last week, driver Richard Cudlip conceded that &quot;as a trade we failed to get our message across&quot; but suggested that the real issues are about safety in minicabs, slow issuing (and reissuing) of black cab licences, a failure to prevent minicabs from illegally touting for business, and a lack of space outside key London tourist destinations.&apos;The truth shall set you free&apos;Johnson also addressed the recent ruling by the ECJ on the &quot;right to be forgotten,&quot; saying he could see how it was &quot;practically possible&quot;.&quot;I am on the side, basically, of history, free speech, of people&apos;s right to know what&apos;s going on in the world, and I think there are worse things in life than to have your Wikipedia entry mildly inaccurate – as mine is, at several crucial points,&quot; he said.&quot;The internet is a wonderful thing. It allows us to know what&apos;s going on. I don&apos;t want to see people effectively going through it to weed out the truth. The truth shall set you free, that is my view.&quot;On other tech issues, however, Johnson was less forthcoming. Asked if Londoners would see driverless cars on their streets, he said &quot;You already have driverless cars on the streets of London – parked. And we have no plans to remove them.&quot;•Uber: the app that is driving London cabbies to distraction
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of the best new Android apps and games to have emerged on the Google Play store.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, but may have changed by the time you read this. (Free + IAP) means in-app purchases are used within the app.Want more apps? Browse previousBest Android Appsroundups on The Guardian. And if you&apos;re looking for iOS apps, browse the archives ofBest iPhone and iPad appsroundups instead.APPS1Password (Free + IAP)As useful apps go, one that creates and stores passwords for the various sites you use – strong, proper passwords, too – then helps you log in with a single tap on the screen is a pretty good idea. 1Password is a long-awaited release for Android, synchronising neatly with PC, Mac and iOS.Sky Sports Football SC Brazil (Free)Just in time for the big tournament, Sky Sports’ new World Cup app makes it onto Android. It’s a dedicated app for scores, live text commentary, tables, photos and other data from Brazil, complete with an option to set your preferred country as “My Team”.The Great British Bee Count (Free)The latest in a growing line of crowdsourcing-for-good apps. In this case, the good is helping Friends of the Earth and its partners build a map of how healthy (or not) bees are around the UK. Its app is used to track the bees you see in your local area, then send that data back to the scientists.Copy Bubble (Free)One of the joys of Android is the large number of simple, single-purpose utility apps that tweak Google’s software for specific tasks. In this case: copying and pasting, as you tap on a floating bubble to clip text and images.Corner - Find Football Pubs (Free)While we’re on the subject of single-purpose apps… Corner is an app for quickly finding pubs near your current location that are showing football, released to capitalise on World Cup fever. You can filter by food and facilities, check on fixtures and invite friends to a match from within the app.DinnerTime: Parental Control (Free)Affronted by surly children texting or playing games at the dinner table rather than joining the family banter? DinnerTime aims to help, albeit by the somewhat draconian method of locking a child’s device for a set period of time. It can also be used for bedtime, revision-time or any other time you deem necessary.Spydy Contacts (Free + IAP)Spydy is apparently a “social launchpad and people organiser” – presumably for people whose social life remains defiantly land-bound and whose friends are un-organised. It promises a visual revamp of your contacts app, puling in Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn, with group messaging included.Peugeot Music (Free)The challenge of “music discovery” – helping people find new songs or rediscover old favourites in streaming music services – is being talked about a lot in the music industry. How about help from… Peugeot? Yes, the carmaker has its own music app, offering a curated selection of streaming tunes.TCS SocialSoccer (Free)More World Cup – well, it is the week for it – with this app offering scores and stats, but with just as much focus on tweets about prominent teams and players. It’s also claiming to throw in some “big data analytics” to keep you posted on Twitter sentiment around the tournament. If it works, it could be fun.Talking Progress (Free)Finally, an app designed for adults suffering from depression. The idea being that you can record your feelings in a digital diary, helping you track the condition and discuss the results with your doctor. There’s also a medicine-reminder alarm built in, if that’s of use.Angry Birds Epic switches bird-flinging for roleplaying game (RPG) action.GAMESAngry Birds Epic (Free + IAP)The latest Angry Birds game sees no physics-based flinging. Instead, it’s a roleplaying game (RPG) that sees you building up a team of birds and attacking pigs through other means. Along the way, you craft and upgrade weapons, learn new skills and get to grips with its turn-based battles system.VVVVVV (£1.99)Ever played Super Hexagon? This is the new game from its developer Terry Cavanagh, and if anything is picking up even more buzz. It’s a platform game that’s been available since 2010 on other devices, with graphics reminiscent of the 1980s, and gameplay that grips you quickly then won’t let you go.Band Stars (Free + IAP)As someone who happily wasted many hours on a game called Rock Star Ate My Hamster as a child, I’ve always thought the music industry makes for cracking games. Band Stars is the latest attempt to prove the theory right: a fun social game that gets you hiring and firing members and racing up the charts.King of the Course Golf (Free + IAP)EA knows a thing or two about golf games from its stewardship of the Tiger Woods franchise. Its new mobile game takes a new direction – free-to-play – with famous courses, neat touchscreen controls and, ahem, boosts. Well, there had to be something to justify the in-app purchases, presumably…Flick Soccer Brazil (Free + IAP)First of a smattering of football games in this World Cup month. Flick Soccer Brazil comes from developer Full Fat: a new game in its very-good Flick Soccer franchise. You’ll be flicking balls past the goalkeeper or at the crossbar over several modes, even if the inclusion of “Brazilian bikini babes” feels a bit unnecessary.Great Little War Game 2 (£1.99)Developer Rubicon Development’s little and big war games have a fervent fanbase on Android, and this latest one looks like it won’t disappoint. It’s another turn-based strategy game where you take your troops into battle over 60 missions. “Just jump in and start shooting,” advises its Google Play listing. And thankfully, it really is that accessible.Up, Down, Left, Right (Free)Up, Down, Left, Right is probably one of the most frustrating games I’ve played on a mobile phone – up there with Flappy Bird – but in a way that means you play it more, not less. It sounds simple: tap the up, down, left, right keys on a virtual keyboard in time to a beat, switching one of them every so often in response to falling keys above. If you don’t throw your smartphone out of the window within 10 minutes, you’ll be hooked.QuizTix: World Football (Free + IAP)QuizTix is a new brand of “collectable quiz” games for Android and iOS, with this the third following versions focused on pop music and movies. Here, you’ll be answering football trivia in a range of categories, taking on friends or asking them for help with tricky questions.Fluid SE (£1.19)Fluid SE is being described as part racing game, part Pac-Man, which does a good job of describing its charms. There are 40 levels to speed through, collecting dots and avoiding spectres – yep, Pac-Man – with a well-worked star system to grade your times and keep you coming back to improve your score.CN Superstar Soccer (£1.79)Finally, one more football game, this one from Cartoon Network. It sees you playing as characters from shows including Adventure Time, Ben 10 and Regular Show. Power-shots, online multiplayer and spiffing visuals make it worth a look for children and parents alike.Those are our picks, but what have you been enjoying on Android this week? Post your recommendations (or feedback on these) in the comments section.
Krillbite Studio / PC, Mac, Linux / £14.99When I was very young, I had a music box in my bedroom. It was bright blue on the outside, and inside a dancing ballerina would come to life, springloaded, whenever I opened the lid.I can remember storing precious possessions within - mood rings, a little bottle of perfume that burned my sensitive skin, worry beads given as a birthday gift to an anxious child.Childhoods are made of such objects. Memories accrete like pearls around these small things, which acquire significance not as things themselves but as keys that unlock, for our adult selves, a brief reliving of what it was to be so young - so vulnerable, so vibrant, just discovering the world and our own selves within it.Some of those keys unlock doors to very dark places.Among the Sleep is about precisely that. You play a two-year-old child, a toddler, initially stumbling and crawling around a house turned terrifying, searching for a mother who seems to have disappeared.You’re guided by a talking teddy bear, who takes you on a journey through several different areas where you must solve fairly simple platform puzzles to collect objects – memories – that act as keys to unlock new areas, slowly bringing you closer to your mother.All the while you must avoid the hideous monster that stalks behind you - hiding, running, and waiting it out until it goes away.The platforming is not particularly tricky, nor exciting, but it is unusual. Among the Sleep may be the first ever first-person crawler: you are tiny, with a low viewpoint even when standing, and you move much more quickly when you crawl than when you walk.You can only run for a short distance before you fall over. You must clamber on chairs to reach door handles and pull out drawers to climb up them, but you can hide under tables and in cupboards with ease.Crawling is the obvious way to progress, but your perspective is so low that it’s easy to miss things. And you can’t hug your teddy bear when you’re crawling – and that’s your only source of light.The details of toddler experience are excellently rendered: you pause the game by putting your hands over your eyes, you breathe like a child with a blocked nose, and your little legs move like a child just learning how to put one foot in front of the other.You are tiny, and you are vulnerable, and the only things you can use are your teddy bear and a few trinkets. You are helpless.Among the Sleep deserves a great deal of credit for its story. The key elements of its horror are not particularly new - hiding from monsters that kill instantly is reminiscent of Amnesia and Slender Man - but the places it takes that horror are interesting.The early part of the game is absolutely terrifying: if you are the sort of person who has dark doors unlocked by the feeling of being at home, being small and being vulnerable, you – like me – may find it very affecting. (I had to ask my partner to take the controller for me, so I could experience parts of the game I’d otherwise struggle to play.)But the game flounders badly in the middle, where it becomes clear that the puzzles and the platforming aren’t tight enough to mask the essential fetch-quest nature of what you’re doing.The richly detailed, other-worldly environments are interesting, engaging and strange, but lack the deep unheimlich queasiness of the house you inhabit at the beginning.The sound design remains excellently creepy throughout, but the jump-scares lose their bite once you see and recognise the monster they herald, and avoiding it presents little challenge. It’s a short game – perhaps two hours from start to finish – but there are still sections that feel flabby, like busy-work rather than meaningful advancement.You aren’t given much information about the memories you’re seeking - the game allows you to figure out the significance by yourself, until the end - but the effect is that much of the importance of your journey is only revealed after the fact, when it might have been a useful motivating factor earlier in the game.But that final reveal, which I won’t spoil for you here, is brutal and disarmingly honest, and brings together the sometimes-disparate clues strewn through the game in a chilling way.The game ends after you make your way back through the same house you navigated at the start, all its terrors stripped away, passing countless objects that have played a part in your story thus far, knowing that the only horror waits ahead of you - and then it allows a redemptive moment.It is a beautiful and heartbreaking moment, wonderfully designed. It is worth playing the whole game for that moment.
France&apos;s second goal in theirWorld Cup group-stage match against Honduraswas a milestone: the first time new automated goalline technology was used during this tournament to judge whether the ball had crossed the line or not.The technology tracks the position of the ball in relation to the goalline, with the aim of eliminating human error when deciding whether a goal has been scored or not. France&apos;s goal provoked plenty of debate about how the technology worked. Here&apos;s an explanation:What is it?Goalline technology is essentially a bundle of technologies that together monitor the path of the ball and detects when it crosses the goal line.How does it work?There are several systems currently approved for use by Fifa and the International Football Association Board (IFAB), broadly based either on camera-tracking or magnetic field sensors:GoalControlGerman-produced GoalControl is the system currently in use at the World Cup in Brazil. It uses 14 high-speed cameras mounted around the stadium – seven pointed at each goal – to track the flight of the ball and detect whether it has cross the goal line or not.Hawk-EyeHawk-Eye is already used in cricket, tennis and snooker, and like GoalControl employs high-speed video cameras dotted around the pitch to triangulate and track the position and flight of the ball. Seven cameras are required per goal mouth, allowing the system to still operate when several cameras are blocked. Hawk-Eye was used in the 2013-2014 Premier League season in the UK.Cairos GLT systemCairos Technologies and Adidas produce a system that does not rely on cameras, instead using a magnetic field to track the ball. A sensor is embedded inside the ball, which detects the magnetic field produced by thin wires run underneath the penalty box. A computer tracks the position of the ball via the sensor and detects when the ball crosses the goalline.GoalminderAnother camera-based system, Goalminder uses high-speed cameras built into the goal posts and crossbar to deliver visual evidence only to the referee, leaving it to the judgement of the officials.GoalRefGoalRef uses a similar magnetic field-based technology to Cairos GLT, but instead of the ball acting as a sensor, the goal frame detects the passing of the ball.Is it entirely automated?The system that monitors the ball cross the line is automated, but the decision is not. Most of the systems, as with the one being used by the referees in Brazil this month, detect the passing of the ball and send an encrypted alert to the referee’s watch in under a second. The officials use that notification to inform their decision.Is it tested before use?Only approved systems can be installed and only by certified installers that then verify the system in a “Final Installation Test”, which attempts to account for conditions in each geographical area, stadium design, humidity, lighting and other variables in each stadium.Once the system has been passed it can then be registered with Fifa and used by officials.How long has it been in use?Hawk-Eye, the first ball-tracking technology to be put into use, was developed in Romsey in Hampshire in 1999 by Dr Paul Hawkins and engineers at Siemens subsidiary Roke Manor Research Limited. It has been in use in cricket since 2001 by television broadcasters and 2008 for referral decisions, where a third umpire is able to view the trajectory of the ball if a team disagreed with a leg before wicket devisions.In 2005, Hawk-Eye was tested by the International Tennis Federation and cleared for use and has been employed by major competitions including the US Open, Australian Open and Wimbledon.For football, goalline technology was first tested in 2011 by Fifa and approved by the IFAB in 2012. Fifa used both Hawk-Eye and GoalRef in Japan at the Club World Cup in 2012 and later used GoalControl for the 2013 Confederations Cup as a test ahead of the 2014 World Cup.Hawk-Eye was used in the 2013-2014 Premier League season, as well as three of the quarter-finals and subsequent games in the League Cup. The first goal to be called by Hawk-Eye was Dzeko&apos;s goal for Manchester City against Cardiff City on 18 January 2014.Why was it confusing in the France-Honduras game?First no-goal decision after the ball hit the post. Photograph: BBCThe technology worked perfectly during the group-stage game between France and Honduras on Sunday, showing the that the ball had just crossed the line and allowing the referee to award a goal to France.Second alert shows the ball cross the line after hitting the goal keeper. Photograph: BBCHowever, the video replay showed two events. One when the goal hit the post and bounced out, which was ruled not a goal, and a second as the ball hit the Honduras goal keeper and bounced over the line, which was ruled a goal for France.The ball clearly crosses the line. Photograph: BBCThe video replay confused the BBC commentator Jonathan Pearce, Honduras coach Luis Suarez and the French coach Didier Deschamps among others, leading Fifa to review how it broadcasts goalline technology decisions to avoid confusion.&quot;In order to ensure maximum clarity in the future for those unfamiliar with GLT, Fifa will review the coverage of this match with the broadcast production team and GoalControl GmbH, to see if any improvements can be made to enhance the viewing experience for fans,” Fifa said in a statement.•How to avoid World Cup spoilers on the internet using a free tool
Coding is becoming acknowledged as a critical literacy for the 21st century. In Greece, despite a four-year long, devastating financial crisis and a much-criticised government,Greece ranked sixthworldwide in the number of students completing 2013&apos;sHour of Codechallenge.Students in Greece have enjoyed the option of a coding class in their senior year of high school for the past 15 years, which is examined nationally in the technology orientation of the University Placement Exams.Yet the Greek government, with its new school bill proposals in August 2013, astonished students and teachers by moving to eliminate technology completely from these exams.In response, university professors and teachers&apos; associationsobjected in letters and petitions, and hundreds commented on the government&apos;s consultation website. This, in the same year marking the launch of the Hour of Code, which engaged as many teachers as possible in introducing students to an hour-long programming activity in class.Greece has always been a small country lacking technology infrastructure in schools, but teachers and students embraced the Hour of Code initiative with fervour, ranking only behind the US, UK, Canada, Turkey and India on the global leaderboard.US presidentBarack Obama may have stressed how important coding is to the economy, but the Greek administration thinks otherwise and since September, coding has had no place in our high-school curriculum.“The children of today are far from the rural or even typical industrial societies we knew,” wrote Joseph Sifakis, laureate of the 2007 Turing award, in apowerful newspaper opinion piecearguing that the bill promoted digital illiteracy.“In modern societies we spend 95% of our time using technology products. Education should provide youngsters with the necessary theoretical and practical tools – and skills – to comprehend this technological world and pursue a successful career in its ranks.”Since then, three hours of computer science have been introduced into the core curriculum, while another item on the government&apos;s agenda is the &quot;Digital School&quot; initiative, whichthe education minister, Constantinos Arvanitopoulos,has said is about “introducing ICT in education, leading to innovation in both teaching and learning&quot;.Computer science teachers, technology-oriented students and their parents remain confused. Did they have to lose their coding classes?Unemployment is soaring in Greece, as the government tries to satisfy demands from the European commission, IMF and European Central Bank – the &quot;Troika&quot; as they are known – for more austerity measures.Those who do still have a job are dealing withregular salary cuts, while taxes and prices are still rising. The dwindling nature of the economy is shown bythe number of businesses closing every day.But the Greek government should be protecting education policies that foster economic growth opportunities – not chopping them.Mina Theofilatou is a computer science teacher and electrical and computing engineer in Kefalonia, Greece
Right, let's see if we can wrestle this thing back on track!
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle owns a satellite now &gt;&gt; The AtlanticRobinson Meyer:Skybox's success doesn't depend on it developing a perfect image-evaluation algorithm. It merely depends on another developer using its cloud to develop an algorithm.Now it joins Google. The advertising giant might use the small satellites in its quest for more and faster data for its Maps and Earth services. The company, however, gets its truly high-resolution imagery from DigitalGlobe, and it negotiatedits last "multiyear agreement" with the satellite behemoth in February. Owning satellites of its own might help Google when it negotiates its next contract with DigitalGlobe, but that's now a few years off. (Whatever happens in the world of small satellites, by the way, the military will still pay for access to DigitalGlobe's enormous WorldView craft. That doesn't mean its stock hasn't responded to the news.)No, it seems possible Google bought Skybox for two reasons.Exclusive: Quantum Paper and Google's upcoming effort to make consistent UI simple &gt;&gt; Android PoliceOur new information surrounding Quantum is refreshing. There has been a lot of confusion over the past months about interface leaks and updates, with many questioning why Google isn't remaining consistent and resolute in its design guidelines for Android.Having seen Quantum Paper, however, it is clear that not only is Google looking to be more consistent in Android design, but they are planning to provide all the pieces necessary to third party developers, and make this new interface approach consistent not just on its mobile operating system but across its web properties and perhaps more interestingly, iOS as well.The potential here is large. You wouldn't be mistaken to think of Quantum as a sort of broad-sweep replacement for Holo, but it's even more powerful than that. The framework will include interface, motion, and interaction (as stated before) on all platforms, making for not just clearer and more consistent UI but also a more consistent user experience.Apple's Game &gt;&gt; Muttering on TumblrSean Heber points out that iOS 8 brings lots of changes. Apple TV wasn't mentioned in the WWDC keynote. But it has gained lots of little extras - building blocks?Due to AirPlay now supporting peer-to-peer connections, this means that if you bring your iPhone or iPad with you to a friend's house (or anywhere with an AppleTV such as a hotel room, school, etc), and you have all of your games in your pocket but can play them on the nearby screen if you want. You can play without needing to purchase the game on that particular AppleTV, without needing to sign in with your iCloud account to access your purchases, without needing to get their wifi password, or indeed without there even needing to *be* a wifi network to join in the first place. All without any hassle. When you go home, you take the game and any earned progress along with you in your pocket.This is probably a good time to say that I don't believe robots will eat all the jobs … &gt;&gt; Andreessen HorowitzMarc Andreessen:Progressive and smart economist Jared Bernstein hasexploredthe productivity puzzle of robots eating all the jobs (or not). He points out that productivity growth was up 1% last year, and has averaged 0.8% since 2011. But what he really focuses on is the smooth trend that tracks through the numbers.The trend suggests that the pace of productivity growth has decelerated since the first half of the 2000s. That begs an important question that the robots-are-coming advocates need to answer: Why a phenomenon that should be associated with accelerating productivity is allegedly occurring over a fairly protracted period where the [productivity] trend in output per hour is going the other way?My own take. We're still coming out of a severe macroeconomic down cycle, the credit crisis, deleveraging, and the liquidity trap. The prevailing pessimistic economic theories — the death of innovation, the crisis of inequality and yes, robots eating all the jobs — will fade with recovery.Tesla encourages free use of its patents—but will that protect users from liability? &gt;&gt; Concurring OpinionsBrad Greenberg, intellectual property fellow. Columbia Law School:assuming Tesla offers nothing more than a public promise not to sue "good faith" users, this announcement may be of little social benefit. Worse, it seems to me that such public promises could provide a new vehicle for trolling.Sure, Tesla may be estopped from enforcing its patents—though estoppel requires reasonable reliance and this announcement is so vague that it's difficult to imagine the reliance that would be reasonable—and Tesla isn't in the patent trolling business anyway… But what if Tesla sold its patents or went bankrupt. Could a third party not enforce the patents? If it could, patents promised to be open source would seem a rich market for PAEs.Tesla is not to first to pledge its patents as open source. In fact, as Clark Asay pointed out, IBM has already been accused of reneging the promise. (See: IBM now appears to be claiming the right to nullify the 2005 pledge at its sole discretion, rendering it a meaningless confidence trick.") The questions raised by the Tesla announcement are, thus, not new. And, given enough time, courts will have to answer them.Logically, Tesla is making this promise about its patents because its business doesn't depend on its patents.Handicapping the iPhone 6 opportunity &gt;&gt; Kantar WorldpanelCarolina Milanesi:The big source of buzz about the iPhone 6 is its larger screen size-the lack of which, many experts speculate, has caused Apple to lose appeal and customers over the past year.Kantar Worldpanel ComTech data, however, tells a different story when it comes to the US market. When looking at the US consumers who upgraded their devices over the past year, only 14% of iPhone users moved from Apple to Android, and of those, only 2.1% opted for a screen of 5.5 inches or larger.Chinese consumers have turned to larger screen sizes over the past year, so it is no surprise that these numbers are higher: Among consumers who upgraded their devices over the past year, 39% left iOS for Android. Of those, 12.3% opted for a screen of 5.5 inches or larger.The potential upside of moving to a larger screen is certainly considerable for Apple in China, with customers to be retained and won over, but the impact will not be lost in the US, either.The gap between expert - or "expert" - speculation and consumer behaviour is often telling. The article has some fascinating statistics too about ownership movement between Samsung and Apple.call (669) 221-6251 &gt;&gt; feminist phone interventionNext time someone demands your digits and you want to get out of the situation, you can give them this number: (669) 221-6251.when the person calls or texts, an automatically-generated quotation from feminist writer bell hooks will respond for you.protect your privacy while dropping some feminist knowledge when your unwanted "suitor" calls or texts.Awesome idea. Donate if you use it. Or set one up for UK numbers.The London Taxi Challenge &gt;&gt; WSJ.com|Pitted a black cab (via Hailo), Addison Lee and Uber, from the WSJ Europe offices in Fleet Street to the Shard.Uber's driver wasn't familiar with The Shard, a towering glass structure that is one of the most recognizable landmarks in London. The driver took a different route from the other two, which ended up taking twice as much time. The fare was 60% more than the other trips because of a premium Uber charges for busy times.Slower and more expensive? What's not to love?Vessyl is the smart cup that knows exactly what you're drinking &gt;&gt; The VergeAs a biomedical computing student at Queen's University seven years ago, Justin Lee knew he wanted to build his own "internet of things" device — but he didn't want it to be any old "smart" lamp, toaster, or light switch. "I wanted to put a computer into one of the most ubiquitous objects in the history of the human race," he says. He chose the cup. Then, he enlisted Yves Béhar, the esteemed designer behind Jawbone and the OLPC, to build it.The result isVessyl, a 13-ounce cup that recognizes any beverage you pour into it, displays its nutritional content, and syncs all your drinking habits to your smartphone. Let's cut to the chase: while I only had an hour with a Vessyl prototype, I tried nearly a dozen beverages in it — and it successfully identified all of them. Within 10 seconds, the device, which currently resembles more of a Thermos than a finished product, recognized Crush orange soda, Vitamin Water XXX, Tropicana orange juice, Gatorade Cool Blue, plain-old water, and a few other beverages, all by name. Yes, this cup knows the difference between Gatorade Cool Blue and Glacier Freeze.The internet of drinks! Now if it could identify contaminants - or whether someone had spiked your drink - that would make it a lot more interesting.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Last year, reporters for the Associated Press attempted to figure out which jobs were being lost to new technology. Theyanalysed employment data from 20 countriesand interviewed experts, software developers and CEOs. They found that almost all the jobs that had disappeared in the past four years were not low-skilled, low-paid roles, but&nbsp;fairly well-paid positions in traditionally middle-class careers. Software was replacing administrators and travel agents, bookkeepers and secretaries, and at alarming rates.Economists and futurists know it's not all doom and gloom, but it is all change. Oxford academics Carl Benedikt Frey and Michael A Osborne have predicted computerisation could make nearly half of jobs redundant within 10 to 20 years. Office work and service roles,they wrote, were particularly at risk. But almost nothing is impervious to automation. It has swept through shop floors and factories, transformed businesses big and small, and is beginning to revolutionise the professions.Knowledge-based jobs were supposed to be safe career choices, the years of study it takes to become a lawyer, say, or an architect or accountant, in theory guaranteeing a lifetime of lucrative employment. That is no longer the case. Now even doctors face the looming threat of possible obsolescence. Expert radiologists are routinely outperformed by pattern-recognition software, diagnosticians by simple computer questionnaires. In 2012, Silicon Valley investor Vinod Khosla predicted that algorithms and machines wouldreplace 80% of doctors within a generation.In their much-debated bookThe Second Machine Age,Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfeeargued that we now face an intense period of creative destruction. "Technological progress," they warned, "is going to leave behind some people, perhaps even a lot of people, as it races ahead … there's never been a worse time to be a worker with only 'ordinary' skills and abilities to offer, because computers, robots and other digital technologies are acquiring these skills and abilities at an extraordinary rate."So where does that leave the professions, whose hard-won expertise is beginning to fall within the power of computers and artificial intelligence to emulate? The efficiency of computerisation seems likely to spell the end of the job security past generations sought in such careers. For many, what were once extraordinary skillsets will soon be rendered ordinary by the advance of the machines. What will it mean to be a professional then?"We'll see what I call decomposition, the breaking down of professional work into its component parts," says leading legal futuristprofessor Richard Susskind. Susskind's forthcoming book Beyond the Professions, co-authored with his son Daniel Susskind, examines the transformations already underway across the sectors that once offered jobs for life. He predicts a process not unlike the division of labour that wiped out skilled artisans and craftsmen in the past: the dissolution of expertise into a dozen or more streamlined processes."Some of these parts will still require expert trusted advisers acting in traditional ways," he says. "But many other parts will be standardised or systematised or made available with online service." In a previous bookTomorrow's Lawyers, he predicts the creation of eight new legal roles at the intersection of software and law. Many of the job titles sound at home in IT companies: legal knowledge engineer, legal technologist, project manager, risk manager, process analyst."Many traditional lawyers will look at that and think: 'Yes, they might be jobs, but that's not what I&nbsp;went to law school for. And that's not what my parents' generation did as lawyers.'" That, says Susskind, is not his concern:&nbsp;whether we call these new positions lawyers or not, the legal sector will survive."What I often say is that the future of law is not Rumpole of the Bailey, and it's not John Grisham," explains Susskind. "It's not a version of what we have today slightly tweaked. It will be people working in the legal sector but offering legal services and legal help in new ways." It may be the end of the profession as immortalised in courtroom dramas, but as software eats the old jobs it will have to create new ones too."Those professions that do not change will render themselves obsolete," says Dr Frank Shaw, foresight director at the Centre for Future Studies. "Those that are able to transform themselves – and I mean 'transform' – will thrive and prosper."No one knows for sure what the careers of the future will look like. But the people at the cutting edge are already watching old jobs disappear – and experimenting with the technology that has begun to create new ones. Here's how three of the professions – medicine, architecture and the law – could be transformed, according to the people helping to reinvent them.THE LAW'The future of the legal profession is not Rumpole of the Bailey and it’s not John Grisham.’ Photograph: Alexander Kozachok/Getty ImagesFive years ago,entrepreneur Charley Moorefounded online legal services providerRocket Lawyer. It now boasts 30 million users. Subscribers pay a monthly fee for instant access to pre‑prepared documents and tutorials, as well as online legal advice from experts at participating firms. The work lawyers on the network do has already begun to resemble the streamlined, one-to-many roles Susskind predicted.Moore is optimistic about the revolution computerisation has unleashed in his sector. "I don't think of [software] as consuming the industry, as much as I think of it as supporting the industry. So with software, certainly there are mundane, routine tasks that will become more efficient, but by making those tasks more efficient, lawyers will be able to move up in the food chain and serve millions more legal transactions than they currently can."Even judges, he says, will need to move online. "I think we have to have virtual courts. Australia has been experimenting with them. New York has been experimenting with online parking ticket adjudication. I mean, give me a break, who the heck thinks you should have to go to some government building when you get a traffic ticket? It's incredibly inefficient."Such changes would mean fewer lawyers were needed to meet existing clients' needs. But there is an upside: as costs fall and lawyers serve more clients, small businesses and private individuals will suddenly be able to afford legal advice. This is the "latent legal market", a disenfranchised horde of potential customers estimated to be worth as much as £27bn. "There's really an unmet demand for legal services," says Moore. "We need more lawyers, not fewer."ARCHITECTURE‘The cloud means a one-man designer can access the same computing power as big multinationals.’ Photograph: AlamySoftware firmAutodesk, founded in 1982, creates virtual design tools used by millions of architects and designers every day. Last year alone, the company produced revenues of $2.3bn. British vice president Pete Baxter is responsible for its architecture, engineering and construction operations in Europe, Asia and the Middle East.He believes architects have little to fear from artificial intelligence. "Yes, you can automate. But what does a design look like that's fully automated and fully rationalised by a computer program? Probably not the most exciting piece of architecture you've ever seen."Technology won't destroy the profession, but it will, he says, democratise it. "There's a paradigm shift now: the one-man architect working from home with a bright idea now has access to an infinite amount of computing power in the cloud. That means a one-man designer, a graduate designer, can get access to the same amount of computing power as these big multinational companies. So suddenly there's a different competitive landscape."Baxter is keen to highlight the many new opportunities software creates for the savvy architect. Collaboration across continents is growing ever easier, opening up projects all over the world. This, in turn, has paved the way for greater specialisation: the expert in the most minute aspect of design can apply their insight in several countries in the space of a single working day."The architectural profession absolutely will still exist," he says. "I think what's happening is we're getting a more collaborative approach. But ultimately somebody still makes the decision."MEDICINE'Where this is going is that, eventually, robots will end up doing surgeries on their own.’ Photograph: AlamyDr Pete Diamandis is the chairman and CEO of XPRIZE, a series of competitions that offer $10m awards for inventors who manage to solve some of technology's most vexing challenges. One such prize will be awarded to the first team to producea working "tricorder"– the handheld device used by the medical officers in Star Trek – capable of diagnosing a set of 15 diseases without the presence of a medical professional.He expects someone to succeed in the next five years. After which, it will only be a matter of time before diagnosis is something done primarily by machines. "It's a matter of providing the computer with the data. Once it has the data, it's able to consider thousands or millions of times more parameters than a human can hold in their head." We will still need medical professionals to guide us and provide the human touch – but doctors will have to accept that computers are better at parts of the job than they are.It's not just software and diagnosis, either: surgeons will have to make way for smarter machines. "I think we're going to see the role of the physician changing significantly through the use of robotics," says Diamandis. He cites the work of Silicon Valley firmIntuitive Surgical, which has created a "surgical system" named Da Vinci, which an expert surgeon can control online from anywhere in the world. Just as in architecture, such developments will allow specialists to reach wider markets – but unlike with architecture there is no reason to assume they will stop there."Eventually, where this is going," says Diamandis, "is that the robot will end up doing the surgeries on its own.&nbsp;I&nbsp;can imagine a day in the future where the patient walks into the hospital and the patient needs, say, cardiac surgery, and the conversation goes something like this: 'No, no, no, I&nbsp;do not want that human touching me. I want the robot that's done it 1,000 times perfectly.'"Yet, despite the large parts of the role that technology will take from them, he does not expect a collapse in our demand for doctors any time soon – largely because we already need so many more than we have. In the US alone, for example,experts predict a shortage of up to 91,500 physicians by 2020. "And that's low compared to the rest of the world," he says. "Africa, which has25% of the disease burden, has1.3% of the health workers. There's no way to ever build enough medical schools or teach enough physicians for the demand that exists even today.""It's about the economics," explains Diamandis. The software and robots are already here – or well on their way – but this unmet demand will remain until the tech is not only more effective but cheaper than the equivalent doctor. "I call this process the 'dematerialisation of technology'. You used to buy a GPS, you used to buy a camera, you used to buy records. These things which were physical have dematerialised on to your phone, and de-monetised, becoming effectively free. And finally they democratise. Healthcare is undergoing the same process: dematerialisation and democratisation."
This year's Electronic Entertainment Expo – E3 for short – in Los Angeles was all about the games. Perhaps that's not surprising for an event centred on the global video games industry, but following 2013's focus on the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One consoles, last week's gathering got back to showing off the reasons to actually own them.After a rough start for Xbox One, Microsoft delivered a games-first message, with nary a hint of peripherals or TV services distracting from playable content. The computing giant confirmed early exclusivity forCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare, with downloadable content coming to Xbox ahead of other platforms. A similar Xbox-first deal was announced forThe Division, a team-based shooter set in the wake of a realistic viral outbreak.November bringsHalo: The Master Chief Collection, a compendium of the four core games in the series to date remastered for Xbox One. It launches alongside a beta program forHalo 5: Guardians, the first truly next-gen instalment in the series, itself set for release in 2015.Sunset Overdriveimpressed, an open-world action game blending anarchic combat against mutants created by a toxic energy drink, while new exclusiveScaleboundoffers gamers a chance to fly dragons into battle. Xbox also pushed indie games this year, notablyInside, a dark and oppressive side-scrolling adventure, andOri and the Blind Forest, a beautifully animated puzzle platformer.Arch-rival Sony countered with a number of new titles of its own, including PlayStation 4'sLittleBigPlanet 3. Released in November, it brings new characters and a four-player mode to its core game, plus all user-created content from the first two games upgraded to PS4 quality visuals. Grim action-RPGBloodborne, from Hidetaka Miyazaki, creator of cult hitDark Souls, taps into disturbing Puritan-era imagery as it sends players into the hellish city of Yharnham.Uncharted 4: A Thief's Endis rumoured to end the treasure hunt action series. If true, it'll be going out on a high point, with the creators of the award-winningThe Last of Ushelming the game. All are PS4 exclusive, with the last two released in 2015.A huge character from the 2K game Evolve, 'the pinnacle of the squad-based shooter genre'.  Photograph: Michael Nelson/EPASony's own indie focus continued, notably withNo Man's Sky, an ambitious independent effort allowing you to explore a procedurally generated universe. From the depths of oceans through the deepest reaches of space, the sci-fi game is breathtakingly beautiful. Like Microsoft, Sony also had exclusive content from third-party publishers lined up, including bonus missions inBatman: Arkham Knightand an amazing feature onFarCry4allowing online co-op even if one person doesn't actually own the game.A western release for PlayStation TV was also confirmed, though there's no firm date. The micro-console is capable of playing PS Vita games on your home TV and streaming PS4 content. Elsewhere, superhero detective comicPowerswill become Sony's first digitally distributed TV show, streaming Netflix-style only on PlayStation.E3 2014 even saw Nintendo step up, with a range of games that will actually make you want to run out and buy a Wii U. Chief among those – and, depressingly, the farthest from release date – isThe Legend of Zelda, an open world epic in the manner ofSkyrim. It looks utterly glorious, a blend of stunning detail and delicate cel shading.Other Nintendo characters got the spotlight too, some for the first time.Captain Toad: Treasure Trackersees players guide Mario's mushroom sidekick around maze-like levels;Yoshi's Woolly Worlddrops the adorable dinosaur into a fabric-themed platformer;Kirby and the Rainbow Curseadopts a rather lovely claymation aesthetic and controls the titular pink blob by drawing directly into the game world using the Wii U GamePad. Space shooterStar Foxis also set to return, with a new game utilising the GamePad for an in-cockpit view and auto-targeting enemies.Unfortunately, E3 wasn't all smooth. Publisher Ubisoft offended some by saying that including female characters&nbsp;in its latestAssassin's Creedwould have "doubled the work", despite having nine studios working on the game. It's actually a backslide for a publisher that has already had a female-leadAssassin's Creed, and a sign&nbsp;that the industry still has considerable work to do on diversity matters.
Good morning! Or evening, if you happen to be reading this on the other side of the world. Our topic for today is the internet. What? You already know about the internet? No, no, I don't meanthatinternet, the boring old one you use to access YouTube and send Facebook updates, email and tweets and stuff. That's the internet of people and it's so, well,yesterday. I'm talking about the new internet, which is going to be the latest thing Real Soon Now.It's called theInternet of Thingsor IoT and it's got everybody very excited over in Silicon Valley, where they hyperventilate a lot about technology. When you ask them what it is theysay things such as"a global, immersive, invisible, ambient networked computing environment built through the continued proliferation of smart sensors, cameras, software, databases and massive data centres in a world-spanning information fabric".Translated into English, that means billions of gadgets, each one of them connected to the internet and communicating madly with one another without much in the way of human intervention. So your fridge can talk to your smartphone to tell it that you're running out of milk, while your bathroom scales messages your GP's computer to let it know that you're not sticking to your diet plan, and the webcam in your living room sends you a text to tell you that the cat has been sick on the sofa, and cool stuff like that.You think I jest? Think again. I tell you, this thing is Big. Why, only the other day, an outfit calledIDC saidthat the Internet of Things is going to generate a staggering $7.1tn in sales by 2020. No, that's not a misprint: I meanttrillions. Who is this IDC? It's a "market intelligence" firm, apparently. And yes I know it sounds like an oxymoron, like "military intelligence", but the whole of the tech industry takes these guys seriously because everyone needs numbers to justify their investments. How else would Facebook have known thatWhatsAppwas worth $19bn?Like I said, everybody who is anybody in the tech business isveryturned on by the IoT. It's going to make&nbsp;lots of money – oh, and it'll change the world, too. Of course there are some boring old creeps who keep raining on the parade. Spoilsports, I call them. There are, for example, the "security" experts who think&nbsp;that the IoT opens up horrendous vulnerabilities for our networked society. Hackers in Azerbaijan could get control of our "smart" electricity meters and shut down the whole of East Anglia with the&nbsp;click of a mouse. Pshaw! As if the folks in Azerbaijan even knew there was such a place as East Anglia. Or some guy in Anonymous could remotely jam the accelerator in your car so that you drive into your garage at&nbsp;130mph even&nbsp;when you have your foot firmly on the brake. As if!That's why it'ssoooannoying when the media publicise scare stories about security lapses involving connected gadgets. I mean to say, how couldTRENDnethave known that its "secure" security webcams weren't really secure at all? It's not its fault that a hacker broke into theSecurViewcamera software and told other people how to do it. The result,according to the US Federal Trade Commission, was that "hackers posted links to the live feeds of nearly 700 of the cameras. The feeds displayed babies asleep in their cribs, young children playing and adults going about their daily lives".This is so unfair. Poor old TRENDnet makes securitycameras. Why should it know anything aboutinternetsecurity? Same story for Toyota and Volvo and co. They makecars– bloody good ones, too. Sure, they have a lot of electronics in them, but that's just standalone engine-management kit. Nothing to do with networks. Why should they be pilloried just because they know nothing about network security?What's that? You've found anIDC reportfrom last October saying the Internet of Things would produce $8.9tn in sales by 2020. So the IoT has&nbsp;"lost" $1.8tn in eight months? Well,&nbsp;yes, I have to agree it doesn't&nbsp;look good, especially for the Next Big Thing, but, hey, what's $1.8tn between friends when we're talking about the future of civilisation? And no,&nbsp;I don't think thatWilliam Goldman's crack that "nobody knows anything" has any relevance here. He&nbsp;was writing aboutHollywood, for God's sake. We're talking about the tech business. Different thing entirely.
"Let your surroundings load a bit," said Adam, a&nbsp;27-year-old from New Jersey. "This thing's big." I&nbsp;stared at the fortress he was building as my laptop purred, loading details: the towers and battlements and a giant front door.During the day, I knew, Adam was Adam Shefki, a lawyer. He&nbsp;wore a suit to work. But right now, in avatar form, he was styled in tan leathers and a rocket pack, and he was figuring out how to make that giant door open and shut on command. Adam was introducing me toMinecraft.The most popular computer games tend to license the unfeasible. Hey:you're an international footballer.An assassin in 16th-century Rome. In Minecraft, which celebrated its fifth birthday last month, with worldwide sales hovering just under the 50m mark, the fantasy amounts to stiff labour. Construction work. Players are cast as architects – resource-rich architects with the power of flight, granted, but architects nonetheless. Play Minecraft and rather than compete for the World Cup or plot to kill a Borgia, it's preferred you act like a&nbsp;groundsman, or a Roman town planner, willing to put in hard hours with blueprints and shovel.And somehow Minecraft has become a global sensation, prized by teenagers, adults and, in particular, seven- to 12-year-olds, whose parents tend to endorse the game precisely because it doesn't exalt unsavoury footballers or murder. It is used as a teaching aid in America and Scandinavia; it's a compulsory subject&nbsp;of studyin at least one Swedish school. Recently, Denmark's ministry of environment commissioned&nbsp;a&nbsp;Minecraft-made replica of the country. All 85,000 square miles of it.Adam's avatar. Photograph: Gerald Swanson for the GuardianWhat is it like to play? Load Minecraft and you're tossed on to freshly generated terrain. Personal appearance can be tweaked (by default, the in-game avatar is male, T-shirted, black), but really you're here to build. Alone or in collaboration. Online or off. Against the clock and with limited resources, in Minecraft's hectic "survival mode", or&nbsp;with infinite cubes of materials and the serene freedom to arrange them – "creative mode".You might start by exploring the area, hiking hills and wading through lagoons to find a&nbsp;promising plot of land. Ground is cleared with one button, building blocks placed with another. The game's physics start to make sense as soon as you've hacked down a few trees, made a tunnel and put up a crude monument to yourself. Blocks can be gummed together in unlikely ways, side on, in zigzags, forming queasy, top-heavy clusters, but they can't be made to float (not without clever fiddling). To make a hut, it's best to start from the ground up. There are materials such as carpet squares and windowpanes for prettifying the work.Minecraft is versatile, too. You won't be satisfied with that hut for long, however attractive the carpet, and will want to graduate to bridges and castles. Whole blocks of Manhattan have been recreated in the game. A 1:1 replica of the Titanic. London's Olympic Park. Jurassic Park. Building is of such importance here that the verb has been made a noun: structures are referred to by Minecraft fans as "builds". When groups band together online, better to attempt something epic, they refer to themselves as "build teams". Adam introduced me to his build team, among them a&nbsp;British woman called Maria Bovor. A 29-year-old illustrator from Worcester, Maria appeared in the game as a&nbsp;cyborg. I was wearing a tuxedo with golden spats and we complimented each other on&nbsp;our outfits, speaking by writing messages that appeared on screen in bright, blocky text.Maria told me that when she first saw Minecraft in action, the graphics angular and awkward, she dismissed it: "Bad looking." The power of the game, though, was in the ambitions it tickled, and she got hooked once she'd knocked up a decent replica of her own house, then later a&nbsp;desert city with a network of underground commuter canals.When she met Adam, he was working on a statue of theGreek god Atlasthat would require the meticulous placing of 300,000 gravel-grey blocks. She was building a castle made of ice. "It was cute," Adam said, "to see how excited she was about all the secret entrances." They agreed to collaborate.Double-tapping a special button in Minecraft enables flight; together Adam, Maria and I flew to visit the Atlas statue. Completed in 2012, it loomed over us, 150m tall, about the height of the British Telecom Tower. When I admired it Adam said, "There were other statues, tests.""We don't talk about the tests," Maria said.How long had they been at work together? Adam: "Oh lord. Depressing thought to tally." Maria: "Take what he says, then double it at least." Adam: "Months of free time, probably."Having manipulated millions of pixelated blocks in each other's company, Adam and Maria became a couple last year. She recently visited him in New Jersey for an extended stay. "Sometimes," Adam told me, "a game spills out into real life."This game! Downloaded on to 21m phones, bought for more than 13m consoles, installed on 15m PCs and Macs, it is is the third bestseller of all time, afterTetrisand that sporty one for theNintendo Wii.The Official Construction Handbook, an introductory guide to the game, debuted at the top of the book charts last Christmas. In April, Minecraft received the priceless flattery of a&nbsp;parody on The&nbsp;Simpsons. Warner Bros had already announced they were makinga movie.Meanwhile, at the user end, ambitious projects continued to roll out. A Scottish sixth-former made a stunningreplica of the Winter Palace in St Petersburg. Chinese history enthusiasts laboured to reconstruct Beijing exactly as it hadappeared in 1751. I visited, exploring this Qing-dynasty city via monorail, and learned that construction was due for completion in "July 2023". Was it wise, I&nbsp;wondered, while riding a pretty route from the Gate of Divine Might to the Palace of Heavenly Purity, to&nbsp;plan to invest so much time?Adam had surrendered months to Minecraft. "Picture my parents," he said. "In their 60s, lovely people… They don't understand atallwhat I do with my leisure time. It's a hard thing to show people. 'Hey! Come over and look at this giant virtual thing I built!' For some people, that abstraction never makes sense. It's just numbers."Maria was more at ease. People commit to all kinds of activities, she said, "for the process, for the memories... The argument that there is nothing tangible at the end of it doesn't hold sway. There's nothing to stop me opening old builds and going back to them. Rediscovering your old builds" – and she had once made a crumbling Moroccan city, a town square, a giant floating sphere – "is a massive nostalgia trip. Like opening an old photo album."Markus Persson, the game's creator. Photograph: Emma Johnson/DN/ScanpixThis is a feeling shared byMarkus Persson, the game's creator. He tells me, simply, "The journey is the goal." A thoughtful, bearded 34-year-old, Persson is widely known by his internet nickname, Notch. For a while now, he has earned several hundred thousand pounds a&nbsp;day and is about to move into the most expensive flat, per square metre, in Stockholm. Still, those names – Persson, Notch – feel apt for a&nbsp;man who has been hauled from anonymity by Minecraft's success and who often gives the impression he would like to go back to it. "I'm not sure how I feel," Persson wrote on Twitter after the Simpsons homage was broadcast. "I still feel a&nbsp;bit like it's just this small game I made at home."Mojang is run by Persson and his colleagues in a&nbsp;relaxed, let's-work-in-our-underpants fashion – authentic breeziness that so many tech firms strive to fake. Every Friday, its 35 staff down tools to play console games. Buyout efforts are not welcome ("They can play it like everyone else," Perssonsaid in 2011, after industry kingpin EA began to circle), and not long ago a collaboration with Facebookwas refusedon the quite brilliant grounds of Facebook's creepiness. ("Their motives are too unclear," Persson wrote in a&nbsp;blogpost.) While we chatted over email, he posted a tweet that suggested he really was working in his underpants that afternoon."Happiness is a moment, not a state," he said, when I asked if his creation had made him happy. "Minecraft has definitely been the cause of many of those moments."It was the encouragement I needed to play for myself. Impressed by Adam and Maria's camaraderie, I decided to assemble a small build team of my own. The sixth-former who'd made the Winter Palace, Matthew Fulton-Peebles, agreed to join, as did Pablo Zazueta, a friend's nine-year-old son, who was given special permission to play after school. Adam and Maria said they'd chip in with some of the heavy clicking. Would it be enough?I browsed forums, looking for builders. "Minecraft is my life," a young Californian called Nathan had posted, although by the time I got in touch, his interest had flagged. Others appeared to expect payment for building work, their quotes varying wildly. A Serbian undergraduate called Branko advertised that, "for only $5, I will work for you for two hours in Minecraft". An Australian teen, Jayden, was banned from a forum for asking for up to £150 per job. I liked the sound of both. (Neither gave me their surnames.)Olivia's avatar. Photograph: Gerald Swanson for the GuardianMy team grew. Olivia Quezada, a student from Texas, had advertised her expertise online. "My goal is to create worlds that are beautiful… Could it happen? Did it happen? You decide." I employed her for a small fee. Joseph White, a 21-year-old web designer whom I'd met on a forum for Minecraft enthusiasts, said he'd assist for free. I found a trio of Italian landscaping specialists who designed me a basic island, with palm trees, a lagoon and expanses of flat terrain – a blank canvas on which to build. We were ready to start. I needed only to tell the team what to do.Past, hardy Minecrafters, I knew, had made theEiffel Towerand a Thames-spanningTower Bridge. There had been at least a dozen efforts to erect a Tower of Babel. As far as I&nbsp;was aware, no&nbsp;one had attempted the BT Tower, and I&nbsp;thought my team might take a shot at it.Sketches were made. We'd build the Telecom Tower… No, two Telecom Towers, surrounded by a rollercoaster. With a moat. And a tennis court. When Branko logged on, I cautiously explained my plan. He was unfazed: "Where do you want the rollercoaster?" he asked, already hacking down trees.Digital Lego, virtual Lego, a Lego that doesn't hurt when you step on it: these are the terms used to describe Minecraft to the unfamiliar. Peter Molyneux, creator of the 1990s computer gameDungeon Keeper, to which Minecraft owes a&nbsp;distant debt, has called it "social Lego". Will Wright, creator ofSimCity, another significant forebear, once pointed out that Minecraft is like Lego in that it combines "accessibility and depth… complex output with simple input". Persson grew up a fan of the plastic bricks. "I used to buildexactlywhat was on the box," he told me.Persson was raised in Edsbyn, in the Swedish countryside, then later in Stockholm. His father taught him to code when he was young, and an interest in game design took root. After college and a stint as a web designer, in his late 20s he joined Stockholm games company King. For his employers (nine-to-five) and for himself (around the edges), he spent hundreds of hours making games, many with flatly explanatory titles: Carnival Shootout; Blast Passage;Bunny Press, in&nbsp;which bunnies were crushed in a press.His work on a new, vaguer project called Cave Game began in spring 2009. After a few days, he had a promising prototype and a better title: a&nbsp;compound of words that highlighted the game's major activities, mining holes and crafting buildings. By the end of the first week, Persson told me, "pretty much the final version of Minecraft was there". He put it online, asking £5 a&nbsp;copy. Over a year, as development progressed, around 20,000 gamers paid.He left King to found Mojang in summer 2010. By early 2011, when the sign on the office door was still written in green felt-tip, sales of Minecraft were past a million. A&nbsp;finished £12 version of the game was ready for sale in November 2011. Persson celebrated by opening a&nbsp;new box of Lego. He was already quite rich.I was a Lego devotee as a boy, and perhaps those of us who grew up with that toy will wonder about the soundness of Persson's digital imitation. How could Minecraft, played on a screen, compare? On&nbsp;my island, as two Telecom Towers rose steadily towards the sky, I came to appreciate that the major advantage Minecraft has over Lego is scale.Tom's avatar. Photograph: Gerald Swanson for the GuardianThe essential Lego block is the size of a thumb. Squeeze together enough of them and you might get something the size of a shoebox. Minecraft blocks are bigger – much: though viewed and manipulated within the limits of a computer screen, they're about waist high in relation to your in-game avatar. Pile up 10 and it's a structure that looms impressively. Pile up 100...It took teenagers Jayden and Olivia a matter of hours to assemble my Telecom Towers, foundations, windows, ranks of satellites, everything. Meanwhile, Branko knocked together the rollercoaster, every square of wood and segment of rail placed by hand. When he was finished, I was allowed to ride it.For the most part, I floated about the treetops while construction went on, overseeing as avatars flew about, sloughing off blocks, pausing to consider a tricky curve or corner, and sloughing again. I assisted with the work where I could, but probably I was most use to nine-year-old Pablo, with whom I built a handsome doghouse. At one point, we put out fires together, when a volcano he'd made started burning down my island's trees.I asked questions of the team as they built. Otherwise, for long periods, everyone lapsed into silence. Time passed quickly, a fact that Minecraft makes players very aware of, with a square-shaped sun programmed to rise and set every 20 minutes. I began to find the repetitiveness of it all quite soothing. My team said this was a famous part of Minecraft's appeal. "I suppose I go into a creative trance when I build," Matthew said. Olivia had a&nbsp;psychology exam coming up, her end-of-school prom to prepare for, and she welcomed the chance to "forget external stress". Adam said, "I made my way through law school playing Minecraft. When I was studying for finals, I'd play the game and put audio recordings of my lectures on in the background. It kept me sane."Building seemed to open people up. When we were alone, Branko admitted an aspiration to one day run his own hotel. He also mentioned a girlfriend he'd met through the game, and the house they'd built together on a public Minecraft server. "With a balcony and a pool."When people talk in Minecraft, they have to stop building to type. Their little avatar goes still; its square head appears to dip. When someone is about to tell you something in the game, they look mournful. Branko told me about the time he&nbsp;logged on to find that the house he'd built with&nbsp;his girlfriend had been deleted by accident. "Of course, we'd broken up in the meantime... Minecraft has made me sad many times."Joseph, the 21-year-old web designer, logged on to my island and found a spot on top of a remote hill where he began to erect a tower. It had a beam of light that projected from the roof and appeared, from where I was floating, to be a monument to something. Joseph told me he'd started playing&nbsp;Minecraft in its early days, when he was a&nbsp;teenager. The pared-down graphics made it one of the few games he could run on a slow computer."Life was… tough?" said Joseph, who grew up in Canada. "We were living in a cabin in the middle of nowhere." In 2011, his mother remarried and Joseph, who said he suffered from Asperger syndrome, found it hard to connect with his new stepfather. Eventually they discovered a shared interest in computing, and started playing Minecraft together, becoming close that way.His stepfather died in 2012. "No warning," said Joseph, who on the night it happened was woken up by the ambulance. Afterwards, he logged on to his stepfather's computer and found a half-finished Minecraft world. Built in secret, it might have been meant as a surprise. Loading it "felt surreal", Joseph told me. "One of the final feelings of, 'He's actually gone.'" He saved the world on to multiple hard drives, worried about losing it. "I'm glad to have this part of him."A teenager playing Minecraft. Photograph: Voisin /Phanie/REXWhen I told Persson about Joseph's story, he said, "Any personal memory of a lost one is valuable, regardless of form. Sometimes it's intangible, sometimes it's transient, and sometimes it's a physical artefact. I have no doubts being able to walk through a fictional world where someone left their imprint could be very powerful."Persson lost his own father in 2011, a difficult time in his life during which he also separated from his wife.In a profile by Rolling Stone magazine, he said of his divorce that changes to his lifestyle (and you expect being profiled by Rolling Stone was just the sort of thing he meant) played a part. I got the impression that for Persson, as for Joseph and Branko, Minecraft was not a wholly positive force."Everything is strange and new and confusing," Persson said of his life since Minecraft got big. "I'm constantly surprised by it, but I've kind of given up reacting to it... So far, all my predictions about when Minecraft will go out of fashion have&nbsp;failed."In the past, Persson has admitted feeling hampered by the expectant attention of millions.He has abandonedat least one follow-up game he was designing. When I chatted with him in May, prospects were better. Persson was "deep in code", day and night, he told me. He seemed to have rediscovered the high spirits of his Bunny Press days, too,  and would go on to release - earlier this week - a new game calledCliffhorse. Programmed in a&nbsp;matter of hours, it cast players as roving, aimless horses – apparently the result of a private joke between Persson and his friends. (Sales have been middling.)Meanwhile Minecraft, a game he stopped active work on years ago, continued to thrive: in May, total sales of the tie-in books approached a&nbsp;million. Lego, which had made an alliance with Persson in 2012, said it would expand its Minecraft-branded line. As for sales of the game itself, Persson thought it likely the 50 millionth copy had already gone, despite&nbsp;the lack of any formal announcement by Mojang. "We'll probably celebrate it the way we celebrate most milestones," he said. "By realising it happened some time ago and maybe having a&nbsp;glass of champagne."It happened to be five years to the day since Persson had written his first line of Minecraft's code. Adam and Maria joined me on my island for&nbsp;one last building session.We met beside the Telecom Towers, where Adam constructed an elaborate treehouse and Maria put up a watchtower. For my part, skulking&nbsp;under a canopy of trees, I tried to even out a tennis court that was badly misshapen. I&nbsp;hadn't even started on the moat. Beginning to feel the first prickles of boredom, I thought of young Nathan, for whom Minecraft was life, until&nbsp;it wasn't."I recognise that at some point things will stop happening," Adam said. Increasingly busy at work, he said, he'd felt his commitment to the game lessen. And then?"Whatever I'm working on will fall into the ether of wherever builds go once people stop looking at them." When Maria last visited him, Adam said, they didn't play Minecraft at all: "She wanted to see America."Our session came to an end. Adam had been staring at his screen for too long and logged off with a headache. Maria went, too, to watch the Eurovision song contest on TV. Alone, I took wing and did a last circuit of my island. Then I&nbsp;left: I had one more place to visit. Joseph had emailed me the save file of his stepfather's half-made world and suggested I take a look.When I loaded it up, I found an expanse of flat terrain dominated by a lake. There was a castle on&nbsp;its banks and nearby an ornamental fountain, one that spouted not water but lava – the flourish, as I&nbsp;took it, of a middle-aged man who might have started playing this game to communicate with his stepson, but who wound up enjoying himself, finding his ideas irresistible. I discovered a secret tunnel that led away from the lakeside castle, out&nbsp;of the cellar and all the way under the water, to a secluded cove."Placing blocks is fun," Markus Persson had told me. "Even if we prevent ageing, even if we escape the solar system before the sun swallows the Earth, we will not survive. We're something that happens in the universe. We're a story."Make the story good, was his point. Build a&nbsp;fortress. Build a tower. Build a secret tunnel that&nbsp;leads out under a lake.
