THE GOALTo exercise smarter. I usually train from five to six times a week – combining weights, cycling, running and boxing – but I came back too quickly from a virus a month ago, overtrained, and found my body rebelling. TheCheck My Leveldevice claims to help avoid such problems by being able to assess fatigue and training readiness.It also says that it's particularly useful for sports requiring explosive power, speed, skill and coordination and "helps to optimise training, to avoid over-training and reduce injuries".THE METHODOperating  the device is quite straightforward. You download an app to your phone, which you then pair up to the Check My level device using Bluetooth.Then, every morning, you attach electrodes to your wrist and activate the device which sends a low-voltage current into your hand for 15-30 seconds. You then tell the app how exhausted you feel and how much you trained yesterday.A few seconds later it tells you whether you should train harder, go at your normal rate, slow down, or stop, after comparing your result to your baseline (which takes a week of testing to find).According to the Finnish makers, the device works "based on the phenomenon of peripheral muscle reflex caused by electric stimulation" and was first used on racehorses after it was discovered that their bodies reacted differently to electric current depending on fatigue levels. "The performance of the nervous system defines the ability for the body to produce high performance. The Check device safeguards against doing too much or too little, and gives coaches confidence they are on the right track."THE VERDICTIn three weeks of testing, once the baseline was established, the device accurately assessed how ready for training I was – although I had told it how hard I trained the previous day and how tired I felt. On one occasion it also suggested, rightly, that I was more ready for training than I actually felt, while on another it told me to take it easy when I had planned a busy day of cycling 22 miles to and from work, running at lunchtime and going to the gym in the evening.That said, at £225 it is not cheap. Unless you are a serious athlete with a lot of spare cash you may find it better to spend the money on a decent pair of running shoes and a gym membership – and when you feel tired to simply take a few days off to recover.
It's Monday.
THE GOALLet's get this straight: I'm not unhappy with my body. I have no desire to sculpt a bikini shape, cultivate a six-pack or lose a dress size. My body's no paradigm of feminine beauty, but it's fine. It's my willpower that's the problem.My snacking habits are out of control. Teatime cakes and pudding after dinner are a given. Second breakfasts are routine. Meanwhile, one habit I have never managed to fall into is exercise. I have tried, many times, to force myself into a healthier, more active lifestyle, but since  I despise almost anything that involves sweating or being out of breath, it seems nothing short of a full-scale health scare will change my ways. I'd like to eat, and act, a little more healthily. I'd like to puff less when I climb the stairs to my flat. I'd like my chin to look less doughy in selfies. If there was less of me to drag around on my bicycle commute, that would be nice too. I'm toldFitbitcan make me healthier and more active through its suite of gadgets. And so, mishearing the word "suite", I've signed up.THE METHODFrom Fitbit's range, I choose a tracker called "Flex", a rubbery blue wristband that promises to count my steps and the calories I've burned each day. It's a wireless device, so all the information is synced to an app and an online "dashboard" showing my stats in real time. The same goes forAria, the futuristic-looking scales on which I'm required to register myself before being weighed. From now on, when I step on them, they will greet me with the message "Hi :-) EJ", and I'll soon be replying out loud: "Morning, scales!"The idea is to set yourself activity and/or weight-loss goals, which the combined gadgetry will then help you to achieve. I have a modest target – to lose 5lbs. Fitbit suggests I need to walk around 10,000 steps a day, but it will reassess how much more activity I need depending how many calories I eat that day. Its online calorie counting tool is not particularly advanced – the database only covers US brands – but Fitbit is compatible with another, and far better, calorie-counting app calledMyFitnessPal. With MyFitnessPal I can scan barcodes, choose a portion size and keep a fairly accurate account of my food intake.With all that information, Fitbit keeps a live tally of how I'm doing towards my daily goal and sends it to Flex, which has five little LEDs that light up to show progress. The band can't measure activity such as cycling or swimming, but you can add this online and it will recognise the calories burned. When you've achieved your daily goal, the band buzzes. Theoretically, if I buzz each day, I should see the pounds disappear on those Aria scales.THE RESULTAt first glance, Flex seems little more than a souped-up pedometer. Since the only "activity" it can really measure is walking, it's no magical time-saver; I still have to painstakingly input any other exercise I do. It claimed that in "night-time" mode it could reveal my sleeping patterns, but the first night I wore it, it failed to notice I'd lain awake three hours with insomnia. Then there's the mystery of the scales. Sometimes, perhaps when I've skipped a day, they don't recognise me and measure me as a "guest user". The weight they record is almost invariably a couple of pounds more than what they accord to "EJ", which makes me doubt its accuracy and intentions.Yet it works. The app and online "dashboard" are nicely presented and easy to use, but most days I just keep an eye on the blinking dots on my wrist. If they seem especially low, I do a couple of laps of the office. I walk into work on days I'd otherwise catch the bus. And I lose my 5lbs slowly, sensibly, over two months.Was technological wizardry the key to my success? I don't believe so. Fitbit's real secret is to make you more intentional about parts of your life you'd normally ignore. I changed what I ate and chose to do exercise, because it was setting me challenges, and keeping me focused on them throughout the day. You don't need expensive gadgetry to do that. But in the case of this serial exercise-denier, it was just the habit-change I needed.
Online security is rarely out of the headlines these days as hackers focus their attacks on the world's top websites, compromising the data of millions of users. From theHeartbleed bug, which has undermined web encryption, to everyday criminals looking to steal online bank details, the pressure is mounting on organisations to tighten up their data defences.Yet many organisations are failing to pay sufficient heed to these threats, according to the online security chiefs who are charged with protecting corporate data. Never mind that a serious attack can devastate a corporate reputation, leading to the chief executive's resignation (as in the case of US retailer Target) and potentially bringing hefty fines from regulators if consumer data is stolen. Too many chief executives and boards of directors simply don't believe that it will happen to them. IT bosses say they struggle to convince companies of the value of implementing expensive security systems.To explore these issues the Guardian ran a roundtable discussion, which was sponsored by Symantec and Fujitsu, looking at ways to help IT executives promote the value of data security to company bosses.Some of the online security sector's leading figures gathered to discuss the best methods of protecting data. They looked at ways of spreading the message to staff about basic online safety. And they examined the changing roles of chief information officers (CIOs) and chief information security officers (CISOs), the managers in charge of protecting data.Basic securityOnline security is often a case of getting the simple things right rather than looking for complex solutions, according to Edd Hardy, head of security assessment at consultancy Hut3. Most problems arise from organisations failing to put in place basic security measures, for example staff may have weak passwords of four characters."Really sophisticated hacks aren't that common, it could be just that there is no password on your firewall," he said. Other speakers pointed to simple failings such as people leaving a company and taking away confidential data.The security industry may have to shoulder some of the blame for this lax approach, having over-promised with anti-virus programmes. As Darren Argyle, senior director, EMEA, information security, Symantec, said: "The industry pretty much failed a lot of organisations by saying, 'we will provide protection' and anti-virus was seen as the panacea."Yet additional security measures are needed to provide adequate protection, he said, such as doing reputational checks on websites. But he warned that breaches of data security are "inevitable", so the important question for companies is how they deal with them when they happen.But first, organisations need to acknowledge that they are vulnerable to attack. According to Charlie McMurdie, senior cyber crime adviser at PwC and former head of the e-crime unit at the Metropolitan Police, some companies would prefer to ignore data breaches than confess they have a problem. She said she had investigated computer hacking scams and informed companies that they had been victims, but many didn't want to know as this could damage their reputation. "Companies are putting their heads in the sand," she said.One of the greatest challenges for CIOs is getting chief executives and boards to loosen the purse strings and spend significant sums on security systems. Javier Campos, chief information officer at marketing services giant WPP's GroupM division, said this was a struggle since spending on security provides no obvious financial benefit: "Most IT projects have a fairly clear return on investment – I spend X and I get Y. When it comes to security, what is the return on investment? It is hard to say you know the risk until something really big happens," he said.He added that it can cost millions to give every website internally the secure "https" security protocol, which ensures data sent over online networks is protected from eavesdroppers and hackers. But when someone asks why he has spent 10% of his budget on this, all he can say is "well, it's safer".The panel agreed that an important way of improving security was by raising awareness across an organisation about the need to take care with data, for instance, by ensuring staff don't get conned into clicking on a dodgy link or leave their laptop in the pub.But independent information and security risk executive Jitender Arora said: "There's no point in measuring awareness, it should be a way of life. Just the way we educate our kids, it's the same in the corporate world, educating people on a day-to-day basis about how we expect them to behave."There was general agreement that cyber-security goes beyond simply protecting a company from attack and needs to be seen as part of the overall digital strategy. CIOs need to take opportunities to contribute to business development as they arise. Rob Lay, solutions architect at Fujitsu UK&amp;I, said: "It is about business not technology. What we see time and again is business practices not working. Education and awareness are about cultural change in the business."For Dr Rick Norris, a psychologist from Critical Support Services and Solutions, there is a mismatch in outlook between security executives and chief executives. CIOs and CISOs tend to be pessimists, believing that security breaches are inevitable. But this doesn't wash with CEOs who are inherently optimistic and may minimise the risks of getting hacked. "If I buy a wonderful system what do I get? Business as usual. It is difficult to justify when I see nothing in return," said Norris. For CEOs, this seems like a waste of money. The answer, the roundtable heard, is to appeal to the optimism of CEOs and to show investment in security in positive terms, as an enabler of the business.Risk managementThe panel agreed that information chiefs have to get better at selling their services to chief executives. As Arora said: "I'd like to see them operating as if they are running their own shop, every year they are going to the board asking for more money and exceeding expectations."The roundtable heard an effective way of making a case for risk management is through scenario planning, which can be deeply involving for boards of directors and powerfully highlights the issues.One of the big questions facing the panel was about the future of the chief information officer's role. How will it evolve – or is it dead? With the consumerisation of IT making it is easier for ordinary people to use, could the CIO become redundant? According to IT research firm Gartner, chief marketing officers will spend more on IT than CIOs by 2017. Meanwhile, the increasing significance ofbig datahas led to the rise of the post of chief digital officer. These developments threaten to do away with the need for CIOs and CISOs, the roundtable was told.Organisations are collecting ever more data from customers in the belief that it will give them greater insights into their behaviour. But Mark Oakton, a policy adviser at InfoSec Partners, came up with a novel solution to the problem of data-overload. "Let's get rid of some of our data and not have as much. Let's have a better handle on the customers we deal with," he said.Only six of the FTSE 350 companies have a chief information officer on the board,according to a report from Grant Thornton(pdf). For Michael Faber, managing director of Regal Training and Consultancy, this statistic shows the importance of getting more IT specialists on to boards. "We won't achieve the results we want without buy-in from the board," he said.So how can the industry train the right kind of people and ensure that CIOs and CISOs become a vital part of the future? Nigel Harrison, a director at Cyber Security Challenge UK, a body charged with bringing more talented people into the cyber-security profession, explained that it was important to find people with a broad range of soft managerial skills rather than just technical expertise. "The days of looking [for] aspiring CIO from the techie stream are absolutely gone. That ability to identify people who are rounded and savvy in business, who see information as an enabler of business – some of those messages are starting to get through," he said.Improving the standing of information chiefs inside organisations will enhance their ability to persuade management to put in place security measures to ward off the hackers. But they will have to show how they create value for those organisations rather than just providing a defence against some invisible threat.Key discussion pointsAs information and data become an integral part of daily life, we need to ensure that it is not vulnerable to theft. The work of chief information officers (CIOs) and chief information security officers (CISOs) in protecting data has assumed huge importance. But these managers face a challenge in showing organisations the importance of risk management. How do you persuade a company to spend significant sums on protecting their data from hackers without sounding like the voice of doom?At the tableTom Brewster (Chair)JournalistMichael FaberManaging director, Regal Training and Consultancy LimitedCharlie McMurdieSenior cyber crime adviser, PwCRob LaySolutions architect, Fujitsu UK&amp;IPaul AppletonHead of information security, G4SEdd HardyHead of security assessment, Hut3Dr Rick NorrisPsychologist/executive coach, Critical Support Services and SolutionsAndy SandsManager, information security and governance, BBCDarren ArgyleSenior director, EMEA, information security, SymantecNigel Harrisonnon-executive director, Cyber Security Challenge UKMark OaktonPolicy adviser, InfoSec PartnersJohn SwansonHead of security offerings, Fujitsu UK&amp;IJitender AroraInformation security and risk executiveTony LatiendaBusiness development, marketing and bidding manager, UK Power Networks ServicesGeraint PriceSecurity expert, Royal Holloway, University of LondonJavier CamposChief information officer, WPP's GroupMThis content has been sponsored by Symantec and Fujitsu, whose brand it displays. All content is editorially independent. Contact Ashley Evans on 020 3353 2758 (ashley.evans@theguardian.com). For&nbsp;information on roundtables visit:theguardian.com/sponsored-content
David Braben is one of the UK's most established game developers. He is the original creator of the legendary space exploration game,Elite, and a founder of the group that created the Raspberry Pi, a single-board computer designed to promote programming in schools that has sold 3m units.Elite's sequel,Elite Dangerous, is due to be released later this year."So many things have shifted since I made the originalElite, 30 years ago. They're good things, they aren't all about hardware, and they've allowed us to do so much more than could be done back in 1984."But ironically, things are also returning to how they were back then. There's a freedom today as developers are able to do what we like, often free from publishers."If you look back to the 1980s, when a lot of people like me were writing games in our bedrooms, it was the same. In life I like to look behind the set. I like to see how the world works. For me, that's what the originalElitewas. It wasn't a space game first and foremost. It was an open-world game that gave the player freedom. Freedom to explore, and freedom to lose themselves."That was because I'm the kind of person who doesn't want to be limited in a game to linear 'A or B' choices. I want to explore and play and see how things turn out if I do them my own way. That's howElitecame about. That's what I wantDangerousto be."The space setting was chosen because it was the only one we could render on the technology at the time."The clue is in the word 'space'. It was a big open area with dots in it, and some ships. That was what we could get working on the BBC Micro and similar machines at the time. But I do really feel like the logical successors to the originalEliteare games likeGrand Theft Auto."In its own way, creatingEliteinspired the Raspberry Pi."WithElite, I had a fantastic opportunity. I learned to program on the Acorn Atom, a computer quite like a BBC Micro. Everything in the box was there for me to learn making games."Until Raspberry Pi, kids today didn't really have that."So many devices are closed off and inaccessible. I wanted to offer what I had, makingElite30 years ago, to people today, and fortunately, so did many others that formed the Raspberry Pi Foundation."Which we all came together to make and which has now outsold the BBC Micro."We don't need to make every child a coder. But if we can erode 'technofear' then that's amazing. Machines like the BBC Micro did that, and they were what made Britain – on a technology front – so great."But then there was that huge gap, where computer science disappeared from schools for all those years. Now it's all coming back, and it's great if Raspberry Pi can be a part of that."
THE GOALI've always been bad at night: never slept through as a baby, child sleepwalker, night terrors, got my first prescription sleeping pills – Temazepam – at 17. I've tried self-hypnosis and relaxation exercises, but mainly I either mope about in the wee hours feeling sorry for myself or take any sleeping pills I can get my hands on. Over-the-counter tablets from America, under-the-counter potions from Thailand, I'll try anything. I just want to get a decent night's sleep.THE METHODI used theSleepioapp in conjunction with aJawbone UPwristband. The band tracks movement and sleep, information that's stored in your smartphone and online in your Sleepio account. It's very easy to use. Wear the wristband to collect data and add any extra explanatory information into a simple online diary along with your subjective experience of last night's slumber. Sleepio analyses it for you.In addition, I had Sleepio's "clinically proven sleep improvement program", six online weekly cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) sessions that run through everything from commonsense suggestions about your sleep environment to techniques to counteract the negative thoughts messing with your wide-awake head.The goal is to improve your "sleep efficiency" (SE), a measure used in sleep studies. In technical terms, it's the total time asleep expressed as percentage of the total time in bed. In real life, it means you aim to spend your time in bed asleep rather than tossing, turning and fretting. There's also an online community to answer questions and offer moral support.THE VERDICTThe tutorials, conducted by online cartoon avatar the Prof and his narcoleptic dog Pavlov, clearly explained the ideas behind each week's exercises. The tasks were varied but not too time-consuming. They could easily fit into an evening busy with the chores and chaos of cooking dinner, getting a toddler to bed and trying to relax.While some of the CBT is simple (keep your bedroom quiet and dark and don't drink caffeine at night. Duh), the SE exercises are hardcore. Sleepio records how much time you spend in bed asleep for the first week then only lets you spend that amount of time in bed for the next three weeks. My average was six hours, so during the second phase I had to go to bed at midnight and get up at 6am.If you wake in the night you have to get up, the idea being that you only associate your bed with sleep. I completed the course during December/January. Don't do this unless your home is well insulated. It was bloody freezing turfing myself out of bed at 3am. But after three weeks, I'd reached 90% sleep efficiency. It wasn't much fun getting there, but once you improve you're allowed to add hours in bed, so normality does return.I underused the online community aspect of Sleepio because I'm bad at social networking. But from lurking around the forums, I'd say the active members were enthusiastic, supportive and knowledgeable. They certainly know a lot about sleeping pills. I really enjoyed those threads.Although the routine of sleep efficiency is too hard to constantly maintain, it's a great fallback measure to have learnt for when sleep goes haywire.Sleepio is user-friendly and it works; it shook up my bad habits and showed me that I can improve without fistfuls of pills. It also helped reduce the twitchy, snappy paranoia that most insomniacs are all too familiar with by making me feel more in control of my nights.
THE GOALAs an average club player whose progress has stalled since I stopped being coached about a  year ago, Zepp's pledge to "reveal your playing style and help identify ways to improve" was enticing. Although I can hit confidently on both sides, only my forehand can really damage opponents, so I was eager to see what theZepp sensor– which "captures, measures and analyses your swing in three dimensions and records 1,000 data points a second" – had to say about my backhand.THE METHODThe 28x28mm sensor is in a rubber mount that stretches over the end of the racket handle. As you swing, it captures data and relays it via Bluetooth to an app on your phone. It's simple to set up and turn on, and after 15 minutes of hitting followed by an hour-long match I have my first data. I'm told that I hit 426 shots, with 64% forehand, 32% backhand and 4% serve, and was "active" for 20&nbsp;minutes. The stats are displayed in a pie chart and clicking on forehand or backhandreveals the percentage that were hit flat, topspin or slice. I was surprised to findonly 8% of my backhands had topspin, compared with 10% slice and 81% flat. Although there's nothing wrong with a flat backhand, topspin gives you greater margin for error, so it was useful to discover how few of my double-handers carry the desired spin.The other thing Zepp measures is power, with a graph showing fluctuations in forehand, backhand, serve and smash during the session. Predictably, serve is identified as my most powerful stroke (I didn't hit any smashes) and backhand my tamest.Of greater interest are the spikes and dips in power throughthe match. Thirty minutes in, I discover, I played a backhand as powerful as any serve. But without knowing the context in which the stroke was made (was it a simple put-away or a drive from the baseline?) or the end result (did I win the point? Did I net it? Did I hit it out of the park?), the data frustrates as much as it enlightens.And this is the problem with Zepp: disconnected from knowledge of the rallying shots, unforced errors and outright winners that make up a point (not to mention the countless strokes when the ball is not actually in play), the data tells only a partial story.THE VERDICTThere's a peculiar pleasurein poring over facts and figures about how you performed on court, and anyone who likes to hit the ball hard will relish the opportunity to compare their power levels with those of their opponent. But in its current incarnation, Zepp Tennis is essentially a means of indulging idle curiosity – a sophisticated way of confirming failings in your game you already knew existed.Zepp can't tell the difference between a winner and a shank, a brilliantly constructed point and a rally of mis-hits. Until there's a way of recording the significance of each stroke, the data this app collects will be of limited value.
Having toiled under a canopy of Michelin stars – at Rhodes 24, Chez Bruce and Pennyhill Park – Neil Rankin was a founding chef of Barbacoa, a Jamie Oliver operation presided over by "the daddy of American barbecue" Adam Perry-Lang. The restaurant marked the consolidation of a British taste for US-style barbecue, where the source and quality of the meat is as important as the "low and slow" technique. Rankin has been slaving over hot coals ever since, as head chef at Pitt Cue Co, John Salt and now the Smokehouse in Islington, north London.His kitchen is an industrial maze of chimneys and furnaces, but Rankin is adamant that barbecue is, at heart, a low-tech discipline, no more macho than baking. "Everyone wants to see flames and fireworks, but barbecuing isn't like that, it isn't sexy. It's about low heat, gentle cooking, patience, time." For Rankin, it is an amateur's pursuit, best enjoyed at leisure with loved ones. "You can cook much better food at home than you can in a restaurant," he says, and is a mine of advice for realising this ambitious claim: lumpwood charcoal is best, rather than briquettes, which smell bad. For smoking, big chunks of wood are preferable to chips, which burn too quickly. Coals should only be partially lit, so they burn longer and provide a range of heat across the cooking surface. Most importantly, the chef must differentiate between direct cooking – a grill set immediately above hot coals – and indirect cooking, in which the heat and smoke travel and cool before reaching the meat."If you really want to enjoy barbecuing, then slow-cooking gives you much more satisfaction," he expounds, tongs in hand, "that's how it becomes a hobby. Sticking a couple of ribs on a barbecue on a Sunday, then sitting around with friends drinking beer; that's what cooking is to me.If you could bottle that and put it in a restaurant – and I don't think you can – you'd get two Michelin stars."Napoleon PRO22K22kg, h107cm, w60cm,bbqworld.co.uk,£233.99"I've never seen these Napoleons before, but I think it's one of the best. It's a kettle-style grill: one cooking surface, with the airflow coming from the bottom to the top. If you wanted to do indirect slow cooking on it, you'd just have to move the coals to one side and cook on the cooler half."It's big enough to cook for 20 or 30 people, or a topside of beef for Sunday roast. It feels very solid, and the composite handle doesn't conduct heat even when the grill is scorching hot. But what I love most are the thick, cast-iron bars, which are hinged so you can easily add charcoal."For what most people want – steaks, burgers, sausages – this is ideal. For smoking, it's probably not as good as a tower barbecue, it would be harder to maintain the right conditions, but you could still do it."VerdictA serious hobbyist's barbecue, with a professional cooking surface.Weber Smokey Mountain CookerSmall 18kg, h79cm, w38cm,bbqs2u.co.uk, £239.96"The Americans call this the Weber Bullet, and it's really for slow smoking. You put charcoal in the bottom, with some wood to add flavour, and the heat and smoke have to travel around the sides and cool. There's a bowl in the centre, which you're supposed to fill with water to add moisture to the smoker. I think if you need extra moisture it's because you're overheating or overcooking stuff, but it works well for pork ribs."This would be brilliant for smoking big cuts like a largecôte de boeuf. You could colour it on the direct heat and then switch to the indirect smoker for 40-50 minutes so it's medium-rare with that smoky flavour. Or you could cook a whole brisket and spend the week eating it; put it in sandwiches, make a pie. I just like it."VerdictIt keeps the heat well, and it's thoughtfully constructed.Landmann Tennessee Smoker24kg, h110cm, w108cm,landmann.co.uk, £169.99"This is an offset barbecue: you fill the smaller chamber with coal and wood, the airflow comes in through the vent, cools in the main chamber, and leaves through the chimney. Alternatively, it can be used as a direct grill, with the left section as a 'firebox' to keep your charcoal hot, so you can keep topping up the fuel in the main chamber. It's a really good system."It's made of thinner material than the Napoleon and the Egg and it's only got tiddly bars, but for slow cooking it's excellent: brilliant for ribs and briskets. There's loads of space – it could fit three pork shoulders or whole birds. You just have to keep adding wood and keep it closed up. If you wanted a cold smoker you could feed a tube from the chimney and pipe the smoke into a box with some trout or salmon. I just enjoy cooking on something like this."VerdictOnce you're over how fancy this looks, it's a really fun thing to use.BBQ Tower26kg, height 101.5cm, width 41.2cm,bbqtower.co.uk, £170.99"I get what they've done – they want to save space if you've only got a little balcony – but I get the feeling it's been designed by somebody who doesn't cook. They've misunderstood a fundamental principle of barbecue: airflow: it's about limiting the amount of oxygen to keep it going at a particular rate. The lower two sections of this are completely open to the air, so only the top bit is really useful – the rest is messy and awkward. I'm showing a bit of bumcrack already but you can image your dad leaning down here and putting you off your barbecue instantly."VerdictIt's not terrible, but they need to come up with a better idea.Big Green EggMedium, 43kg, h69cm (without base), w46cm,biggreenegg.co.uk, £700"The advantage of this over the others is it's ceramic, so it holds the heat and it's incredibly controllable. With one handful of charcoal you can cook for 20 hours at a consistent temperature, so it's the only one you can easily cook pulled pork on."The ceramic platesetter inside can be used as aplanchato cook pizzas, fish or burgers. The other way up, it creates a slow cooking environment by acting as a heat barrier. You can even use the Egg like a tandoori oven. Take the grills out, get the heat right up and throw stuff right in there with the coals. Aubergines, fennel, crabs; anything you can peel when it's ready."The only trouble with the Big Green Egg is it's so expensive. But it's is the only one sturdy enough to be used in a restaurant kitchen."VerdictIf you're only going to cook twice a year, then this is a bad idea. If you want something for life, it's brilliant.
Apple is taking a calculated risk with its iOS 8 software, due in autumn. It's tweaking the Messages app, normally used to send text messages, with pictures or videos attached if you want, so that it can also send short voice snippets.Not only that; it's building in Snapchat-like or WhatsApp-like functionality, so that the snippets will auto-delete within a few seconds of the receiver listening to them, as will photos or videos taken via a newly-introduced function in the app.Why is this a big risk? Because the Messages app is, like the SMS app on any smartphone, the one that on average people use most frequently (even if they don't spend the longest time in it compared to other apps). Tweaking how a popular app or function works is as dangerous as defusing a bomb; get it wrong and you can just be left with wreckage.The obvious example of messing something up is Microsoft's dramatic change to the interface in Windows 8, which got rid of the Start button, familiar since 1995's Windows 95, in favour of a tile-based interface. While power users delighted in it, the  reaction I've repeatedly seen from ordinary users familiar with Windows 7 and its forebears is puzzlement, followed by frustration, and then a search for alternatives And that's just the process for launching apps.What Apple is doing with Messages isn't so dramatic, but iMessage is a cornerstone of Apple's mobile strategy. Introduced in 2011, it now handles more than 40bn messages a day between the half-billion or so iOS devices (iPhones and iPads, principally). And it only works on and between Apple devices, because of how its security system works – a competitive edge for Apple.The new functions – record a quick video, take a picture, or record a quick voice message – are being added by the medium of the "long press". Long press on the camera icon (left of the text entry space), and you go to the live camera settings. Long press on the microphone icon (on the right of the text entry space) and you can record and send a quick slice of audio. (Apparently the latter is very popular on apps in China — where "typing a quick note" isn't quick because the character set is more complex than our Roman script.)Obviously, teens who love iMessage will figure this out within minutes of updating to iOS 8. But I'm more intrigued by the less frequent or eager users, who will probably discover the new features completely by accident, and may wonder what they've done to make it happen. But will they be able to extricate themselves from it if they accidentally fall in? That's the real test of how good the user interface is.You can see some early screenshots onApple's website– where you can decide if undoing a long press is easy or not. For photos or videos, it looks as if it might be: a pretty clear "x" suggests you can undo what you're up to.But with the short voice messages, it's trickier. The microphone icon is in the space that used to say "Send". It's only there if you don't include any text, though; start typing and it vanishes (because you can't send a voice/and/mail message). On that basis, lots of people won't discover it. Apple's probably fine with that.But if by chance you do press and hold the microphone icon, it starts recording straight away. That's going to puzzle people who didn't really mean to press it. How do you stop it? There's a small "X" in the space to the left of a "play" icon; above that is an "up" arrow. Hit Play? Hit X? Hit "up"?I suspect the "up" arrow will be hugely tempting for people trying to reverse out of what they perceive to be a wrong turn — to some, it will suggest "get me out of here!" Instead, it will send the recording to the recipient. I foresee that once iOS 8 is in widespread use (on past patterns, less than a month), iPhone users may have to get used to receiving puzzlingly silent voice messages text as its creator fumbles for the right buttons.Even so, Apple must feel that some puzzlement is a necessary evil in the interests of keeping users on iMessage – and thus the iPhone. The risk to its integrated phone platform comes if its key functions are unbundled so that iPhone owners start using someone else's app for maps, another for messaging, another for browsing. You can already get apps that will do all those on the iPhone, of course, but Apple is counting on retaining users by offering more integrated functionality. The evidence is that people do stick with Apple's defaults. But as apps gain more functions, it can't count on that. Thus Messages, as the iPhone's most-used app, is the essential place to start on a retention campaign. You've been warned, though: expect a few pregnant pauses in the autumn.
1Pepsi Invaders–The Coca-Cola gameOriginally it was only the attendees of a 1983 sales convention that would find themselves in possession of this particular piece of video games history. They were given a copy for the Atari 2600 as a promotional item. The game – reportedly commissioned by Coca-Cola itself – was a near carbon copy of theSpace Invadersformula. The only significant change was that the ever-advancing alien forces were instead replaced almost entirely with letters spelling "Pepsi". Players controlled a vehicle that just about represented a Coca-Cola bottle. Their task was defending something – Coke's profits perhaps? – from the advance of the Pepsi brand. It was a mischievous piece of marketing on the battle field of the cola-wars of the 1980s, and brandished its own slogan: "Coke Wins", in typical tub-thumping style. The fizzy drinks outfit had created perhaps the first-ever example of a branded game, and a future high-priced collectible. Copies have traded for upwards of $1800 in the contemporary collector community.Burnout Paradise with Barack Obama's 2008 campaign billboards. Photograph: Observer2Burnout Paradise– Obama's 2008 campaign billboardsUncharted 3  – and Subway. Photograph: ObserverIn 2008, as Barack Obama's push for the US presidency gathered pace, his team didn't limit their vote chasing to the physical realm. For citizens in many Republican states, even virtual worlds offered no escape from the campaign. Obama's posters had appeared in racerBurnout Paradise, as well as a number of other releases with in-game advertising hoardings that had the facility to be updated after purchase. Apparently John McCain was approached with a similar deal, but rejected such involvement in games. Maybe McCain felt billboards in an infamously fast driving game were likely to go unnoticed. Obama did win, of course, but how much the virtual ads actually helped his cause remains unrecorded.An awful lot of Chupa Chups in Zool. Photograph: Observer3Uncharted 3- Subway mealsYou don't have to leave your screen to get food with this game. Photograph: ObserverWith theUnchartedseries, studio Naughty Dog crafted a classic action-adventure. It offered tremendous escapism, taking players to jungles, temples and other locales straight from Indiana Jones's and Lara Croft's escapades. Its settings felt every bit the titular uncharted, far removed from the minutiae of modern life. On occasion, though, that illusion came crashing down. When, for example, a promotion for the online multiplayer mode ofUncharted 3saw Subway meals and staff uniforms appear in parts of the game's world. The food chain's reach, it appears, goes far beyond the towns, cities and airports of the globe's well-mapped territories.Skate-boarding games are full of brands. Photograph: Observer4Zool– A lot of Chupa ChupsThe Amiga home computer found its way into numerous bedrooms and living rooms through parents convinced it was a great platform for homework. The fact that they were right didn't matter. The computer thrived as a gaming machine, andZool: Ninja from the Nth Dimensionwas one of a handful of the mascots it promoted as a rival toMarioandSonic. The gremlin ninja of the title spent his time leaping between 2D platforms, where he was surrounded by Chupa Chups lollipops and branding. The game was awash with the confectionary, which apparently sprouted as a sort of sugar crop throughout many levels, having taken the control of an invasive plant species. Like a sticky rash, they almost outshone the protagonist, such was the volume of their presence.5EverQuest II– Pizza Hut orderingPlaying a fantasy RPG epic likeEverQuest IIcan be an all-engrossing experience for some. It can feel hard to leave. Indeed, it seemed the most devoted fans could find even the challenge of leaving their computer to order a takeaway too difficult to bear. Fortunately for them, Pizza Hut spotted an unlikely space in the title's in-game advertising real estate, and injected a branded presence that allowed players to place orders and pay without having to leave their virtual adventure for even a second. A short while later, their pizzas would arrive in the real world. Which left sedentary players with the final conundrum – how to make it to the front door without having to spend a moment away fromEverQuest II?6 Skateboarding games – skateboarding brandsFrom the influential Tony Hawk series to EA's quietly radicalSkate, games based on sidewalk surfing have often been saturated with the iconography of sports corporations. From character clothing to in-game billboards, it has long been close to impossible to ignore the sport's commercial and cultural overlords in digital skateparks. But it went deeper than that. In many cases every skateboard wheel, truck and deck aped a real-world brand and model. As such, the games presented a slightly more authentic interpretation of a sport subculture where logos and brands enjoy particularly high status. With that authenticity came more capacity for uninterrupted escapism. In Tony Hawk games many players could even build their own real-world board set-up, and ride in their favoured model of skate shoe. It proved that even the most shameless in-game advertising, when placed perfectly in context, can once in a while bring something extra to a game.
Are you a gadget fiend or a technophobe?I'm a bit baffled by technology. I've picked up bits of knowledge along the way, but nobody's ever sat down and taught me. I'm also dyslexic and numerically dyslexic, which helps (laughs). I tend to throw gadgets at someone else and say "You deal with it". So this could be a very short interview!How has technology changed your working life as an actor?Not much, if I can help it! There's an app calledLine Learner, which was recommended to me, but I couldn't figure it out. I was erasing whole scenes and it was confusing me more than it was helping, so that was hopeless. Some people seem to have a way with these thing but I just can't get it right. Human error always gets in the way. Actors do auditions over Skype these days but I can't. I hate seeing myself in the corner of the screen. You look like you're in the back of a spoon, which is deeply unattractive.Do you use the web to research roles?Yes, it's useful for that but you have to be careful. A lot of the information out there isn't absolutely accurate. Occasionally someone's shown me something about myself and it's usually wrong. Mistakes tend to get perpetuated online. I find books more interesting and helpful: social and cultural histories, poetry or novels, anything to read around the character or period that I'm working in.What's the most expensive gadget you own?My MacBook Air. I've also got an iPad and iPad Mini, so I'm well-equipped with wonderful gadgets. I just don't know how to use them properly. If anything goes wrong with my iPad, I call my friend Elizabeth in America and she helps me by phone. Unfortunately, I can't call her until 2pm so I'm completely buggered in the mornings (laughs). My iPad Mini works fantastically, it's the iPad I can't get to grips with. It's always freezing. At the moment on my iPad Mini, I've got 11 new emails but I've only got three on my iPad, so go figure.Are you a phone junkie?I'm still working up to an iPhone. I've got an ancient Nokia. It's been dropped down toilets and all sorts. I've been through five or six of them. But iPhones especially I find distracting. I've been to lunch with people who've had their iPhone and BlackBerry on the table at the same time. It's a compulsion, like Tourette's. You feel like they're not really with you. It's an extra guest.How much of a problemare they in theatres?It's so irritating. Phones going off or their little lights glowing in the audience. If people aren't really listening or watching, I'd rather they go away. I saw this wonderful bit of graffiti in New York that said "Fucking look up". It's true, people walk along the street, constantly looking down at their phones. I find smartphones speed up time too. People say: "Have you not seen this?" I reply: "No, go away, I've got things to do." It doesn't give you time to think. I'd rather sit down and catch up at the end of the day, rather than have it all with me 24/7.Do you use abbreviations or emoticons?No, never. I've got predictive text and the iPad changes my spelling mistakes as I go along, which is grand for me, as I'm not a very good speller. Before I became an actress, I went to something called Speed Writing, which is like a cross between shorthand and textspeak. I'd seen it advertised on the Tube, saying "Get a good job fast in three months". I ended up going to secretarial college for six months, not three, and still failed miserably. I don't use those little smiley faces either but some of my girlfriends add little champagne glasses or high-heeled shoes to their messages, which is fun.Is there a gadget that you bought but never used?An Oscar juicer, which was supposed to be super-duper. I tried it about three times. The third time I made a juice that made me sit on the toilet for two days, so I went off it pretty quick. (Laughs) That's £300 worth of fantastic machinery sitting there doing nothing.Do you have a lot of fancy gadgets  in your kitchen?No, I even still make coffee the old-fashioned French way, with paper filters. I buy my coffee from Fortnums and freeze it.Do you do online banking?No, it scares the hell out of me. I'm part of that generation who prefers speaking to a person.Do you use self-service checkouts in supermarket or wait for a manned checkout?Yes, I've just about managed to work that one out. Although there's usually a person there to help. I still seek assistance pretty much every time, which sort of defeats the object.You've done voice work for computer games but have you ever played them?I'm afraid not. My grandchildren are completely hooked and I'm envious, because that's the first step in knowing how to use these things. My youngest grand-daughter even goes up to the television and tries to tap and swipe it. Technology is a world-changing, wonderful thing – I just wish I could catch up a little bit more.What gadget would you like to see invented?I want a chip in my head that means I can just download a script, or a piece of poetry, or a speech into my brain. It all goes onto the chip and I'll just know it.What's the most technologically advanced project you've worked on?Harry Potter and The Philosopher's Stone. I played a Hogwarts teacher called Rolanda Hooch. We did the Quidditch sequences with me sitting on a bicycle seat with a broomstick on the front, and this machine making it go up and down. It was programmed to do certain moves but the computer broke down, so we'd get off and go to have lunch. Then we'd get back on again until the computer broke again. Repeat this process a few more times and that was my day of flying through the air. But that was the first Harry Potter film. I'm sure by the last one, flying scenes were done in a much smoother way.Which gadget from Harry Potter would you like to see recreated in the muggle world?The ability to fly would be fabulous. And I'd like an invisibility cloak as well, so I could spy on people.If you could time travel, where would you go?Paris during the belle époque period. I'd love to have been around for that explosion of energy and creativity. Or 14th-century Venice. Except Mr Crapper wasn't around then and toilets are very important to me. Toilet facilities are the main thing that stop me time-travelling to other eras. (Laughs)You can catch Zoë in the new series ofMr Selfridge, due to air on ITV1 in early 2015.
Q My large (1,500-strong) CD collection consists of classical music and jazz. If I were to rip the collection as a backup to an external drive and/or place the files in the cloud, I would want to retain the quality with Aiff/Wav or compression to Apple Lossless (m4a) with the idea of being able to convert back to the uncompressed original in due course. Do you think this is practicable? Also, would Apple Lossless be the best format to choose to temporarily compress Aiff or Wav files for storage, in order to uncompress them for playback later? Also, to stream music to hi-fi etc, are these files the best formats to use, or are they problematical?Michael, via emailA When ripping your CD library, it's important to choose the best storage format to preserve your music collection's original quality. To the audiophile market and to a lesser extent for some music lovers, digital music has a pretty bad name. This is due to historically low bit-rates in lossy consumer music formats like MP3 or AAC (a lossy compression format is one that permanently removes some of the file's data; in some cases it will remove more data than it leaves behind). Today, higher bit-rate MP3 and AACs are much better than they were.Thankfully,iTunessupports some lossless (compressed and uncompressed) formats, including Aiff, Wav and Apple Lossless. But lossless formats often take up much more space on disk (up to about 11Mb/min), and are  not supported by most online music lockers, including Google Music.When ripping CDs to your iTunes library you can choose higher bit-rate MP3 and AAC (192kbps or 320kbps), an uncompressed audio format such as Aiff or a lossless compression format like Apple Lossless. These all have the same quality as a CD. iTunes is also pretty good at detecting your music and automatically populating your library with metadata where supported.Below is an overview of the various lossless formats:Apple Lossless CompressionThis Apple file format option in iTunes can reduce the stored data by almost 50%. It restores to a bit-perfect replica of the original music file for playback. The Apple Lossless Audio Codec (Alac) was open-sourced in 2011, so there is relatively good support, with iTunes on OS X and Windows, Music on iOS, and third-party audio players such as PowerAmp on Android offering support.It's worth noting that iOS only supports up to 44.1kHz audio, so if you intend to transfer any of these to your phone, be careful to not use 96kHz settings. ALC fully supports metadata tagging, which is great for searching your collection.WAV (Waveform Audio File Format)WAV is capable of storing Linear PCM audio (the digital encoding format used on CDs) in uncompressed form. Ripping a CD and storing it as an uncompressed WAV results in a bit-perfect clone – identical to the original CD. WAV files can also store high-resolution music files at greater bit and sampling rates than CDs. Some places offer them as "hi-def" or "studio masters". Uncompressed WAV files can be ripped and played back in iTunes and are very high quality. However, they do take up more hard drive storage space than AAC, MP3 or Apple Lossless. WAV files do not support metadata tagging. Things like album art, song titles and other features that enhance music library management and playback will be lost.AIFF (Audio Interchange File Format)AIFF is similar to WAV and is capable of storing uncompressed Linear PCM audio. AIFF files can also store high-resolution music files at high bit depths and sampling rates. AIFF files can be created and played back in iTunes on Mac OSX and Windows and are very high quality. But they are still very large uncompressed files. AIFF files, like Apple Lossless, fully support metadata tagging.Storing digital music files in lossless or uncompressed form does not mean that you have to reduce the amount of music stored on your iOS devices or other players. iTunes allows users to convert higher data rate music files to 128kbps AAC on the fly as music is synchronised to a mobile device. There is no need to keep separate libraries.  Many devices are, though, capable of playing lossless files.When it comes to backing up your uncompressed files, for now at least, you will need to keep them stored on a physical drive or an online backup service such asBackblazeorCrashplan. This is because no online music lockers that I know of currently support them without compression.As for streaming music to a hi-fi system, Apple Lossless is likely to be the best format as files can be transported in compressed form and decoded on the hi-fi, which should result in faster playback.Q I'm going travelling soon and would like to set up a blog to share stories and photographs of my travels with my family and friends. I'm only going to have a phone and tablet with me, so something with apps and draft support would be really useful,Gerald, via emailA There are a multitude of blogging systems and services that can be used by people travelling the world, and a few of them meet your criteria perfectly, including Wordpress, Tumblr and Roon.io.Depending on your level of technical expertise, Wordpress is the most flexible option. It offers free, open-source software that can be run on any server you wish and tuned to your liking. There are lots of guides on the web for doing this, although you will have to pay for servers and a domain name.For people who do not wish to set up a server, there are two options with native applications: Tumblr, which offers first party apps on iOS, Android and Windows Phone, and Roon, which offers first party applications for the iPhone and iPad.Tumblr is a very popular service with a community of people generating and sharing content. The website offers a plethora of custom themes for your blog, supports custom domain names and more.You can take a look athttp://tumblr.com– however, Tumblr does not offer a way to export your data, so that if you ever wish to back it up or move the material elsewhere, there is no easy way of doing so.Roon is a relatively simple but powerful blogging service that puts the focus on your content and offers incredibly good iOS apps (when the service launched, they were the only way to create and edit content).Roon has developed a business model, offering custom domains and analytics to generate revenue and keep the service alive.It also offers a way to download all of your content and images in a single go – you retain the ownership of your data. You can find the service athttp://roon.io.
One of the sacred texts of the tech industry isThe Innovator's Dilemmaby Clayton M Christensen. The key to its seductive appeal lies in the subtitle: "When new technologies cause great firms to fail." The book was first published in 1997 and was based on a set of case studies that, Christensen argued, showed that once-successful companies went under not because their managers made bad decisions, but because they kept making the same kind of decisions that had kept their customers happy for decades. In doing so they overlooked products that other kinds of customer might one day want, thereby missing untapped opportunities that eventually turned into industry-transforming ones. The "dilemma" of the book's title is that doing the right thing (keeping your existing customers happy) may turn out to be the wrong thing to do.The process that unhorses great companies, Christensen argued, is "disruptive innovation" driven by technology. Some upstart firm invents and begins marketing a flaky – and, in the eyes of incumbents, inferior, product. This is not seen as a threat, because it's too crummy to interest established customers, who crave the premium quality, attentiveness and incremental improvements they get from incumbents. Thus mainframe customers were thought unlikely to be interested in minicomputers. Then customers of minicomputers were deemed unlikely to be interested in "personal computers". And so it went on until every organisation in the world was addicted to personal computers.The poster-child for Christensen's theory of change is Kodak, the global company that completely dominated its industry – analogue photography – and waseventually destroyed by a disruptive technology: digital imagery. The delicious irony in the Kodak case was that it actuallyinventedthe technology that proved its undoing.The Innovator's Dilemmaand the Big Idea that it spawned – disruptive innovation – has been kind to its author. Professor Christensen is widely revered as a guru in the tech world. The idea of disruptive innovation appeals to the vanity of the start-up culture: it conjures up images of high-IQ geeks subverting the empires of men in suits, or at any rate in chinos. Christensen has extended his analysis to other, non-technological areas and industries.Education, for example, is apparently ripe for disruption. And of course companies such as Uber and Airbnb are supposedly bringing innovative disruption to the taxi and hotel industries respectively. Everybody and his dog wants to be in the disruption business.And then, a few weeks ago, a Harvard historian had the temerity to ask if Emperor Christensen had any clothes.Writing in theNew Yorker, Jill Lepore gaveThe Innovator's Dilemmathe kind of unsympathetic third degree to which historians regularly subject the books of their professional peers. Her conclusion was unflattering, to say the least. "Disruptive innovation as a theory of change," she writes, "is meant to serve both as a chronicle of the past (this has happened) and as a model for the future (it will keep happening). The strength of a prediction made from a model depends on the quality of the historical evidence and on the reliability of the methods used to gather and interpret it. Historical analysis proceeds from certain conditions regarding proof. None of these conditions have been met."Lepore's excoriating analysis provoked interesting reactions.Christensen himself was baffled and outraged, like a Catholic cardinal who has been asked by an impertinent urchin why is he wearing a scarlet frock. More generally, the Lepore critique prompted more self-aware folks to ask whether they should perhaps have been more discriminating in their use of the term."In the past few years," wrote one industry observer, Kevin Roose, "I've gotten literally hundreds of pitches for products billed as disruptive innovations. (My favourite? A wooden cuckoo clock, whose creator promised it would 'add verve to more austere ambiences in search of a stylistic disruption'.) I've been invited to conferences on disruption, seen books with titles likeDisrupt! Think Epic. Be Epic, and read about USC's new innovation programme, which advertises a 'degree in disruption'." Wheneverythingis disruptive, Roose concludes, "nothing is. Which is exactly why it might be time to kill the word disruption altogether."Spot on. US business schools are sausage machines for the production of soi-disant big ideas such as Christensen's. It's a pernicious genre based on one simple principle: the "idea" must be big enough to seem profound, but it mustn't be so profound that it cannot be memorised by halfwits and used in PowerPoint presentations. The key thing, though, is that it must not, under any circumstances, be subjected to critical scrutiny. Professor Lepore has more work to do.
Released digitally only on PSN, with minimal publicity,this versatile action gameseems doomed for "cult classic" status – a shame, since it deserves more. There's a relatively&nbsp;straightforward plot: monsters have overrun the kingdom of Schwert, forcing its "battle princess" Plume to take up the sword against them. She proves an interesting hero, too – she's a mix of sheltered naivety and gleeful exuberance in combat.But this set-up is less important than the remarkable gameplay, which shifts from stages of scrolling beat-'em-up-style action, where you can switch between characters at will, to more tactical boss battles in which Plume leads an entire army, issuing commands to the battalions.Throughout, the game uses a 2D setting and paper-doll animation for the characters, giving it all a stage-like feel. It is a tiny bit cliched in places, particularly if you're familiar with anime tropes, but the offbeat sense of humour, lovely visuals and increasingly challenging gameplay make it deserving of a home on any player's console. An
Largely shunning the narrative thread of the pretty decent film version of the second of Cressida Cowell's Dragon novel series,How to Train Your Dragon&nbsp;2sticks to the easily implemented staples of flying action and fireball shooting. Simple and straightforward, as are the easily mastered controls, which allow players to soar through a world richly&nbsp;populated with Viking settlements and mountain peaks, all to the backing of a lush orchestral score. Gameplay suffers from a loose approach to progression, but the missions help focus the action on racing, flying, shooting and the staple of all dragon-based entertainment – sheep collecting.Multiplayer options offer improved longevity for families, with a second dragon controlled via the Wii U screen for faster progress or head-to-head races. A decent-enough fist of fire-breathing fun, then, but ultimately, limitations in scale and a lack of innovation makeHow to Train Your Dragon 2seem somewhat tired and pricey next to modern movie tie-in games on tablets and smartphones. Young fans of the film may still enjoy the experience and many families will certainly appreciate the increasingly rare inclusion of a Wii version.Battle Princess of ArcadiasPS3, NIS America, cert: 13Released digitally-only on PSN, with minimal publicity,this versatile action gameseems doomed for "cult classic" status – a shame, since it deserves more. There's a relatively&nbsp;straightforward plot: monsters have overrun the kingdom of Schwert, forcing its "battle princess" Plume to take up the sword against them. She proves an interesting hero, too – she's a mix of sheltered naivete and gleeful exuberance in combat.But this set-up is less important than the remarkable gameplay, which shifts from stages of scrolling beat-'em-up-style action, where you can switch between characters at will, to more tactical boss battles in which Plume leads an entire army, issuing commands to the battalions.Throughout, the game uses a 2D setting and paper-doll animation for the characters, giving it all a stage-like feel. It is a tiny bit cliched in places, particularly if you're familiar with anime tropes, but the offbeat sense of humour, lovely visuals and increasingly challenging gameplay make it deserving of a home on any player's console.Matt Kamen
Toyota Prius plus what? Plus two seats: the Prius+ has seven, in three rows. Plus more space in the back for your stuff, if the last row is folded away. Plus you'll need an extra four grand or so to buy it. The cheapest is £26,145. This posher Excel model, with bigger wheels and a few more toys, is a monkey shy of 30 grand. Thirty thousand pounds! That's some serious spondoolies for a rather plain people carrier. You can carry seven people in aKia Carens,say, for a lot less.Yeah, but it's a hybrid, of course, with a lithium-ion battery, since you&nbsp;ask, which is better than the sort of battery you find in normal Prii (that is the official plural, I'm afraid; Toyota polled the public). Hybrids have always cost more. The&nbsp;idea is that you get it back on the fuel you save, the lower tax bands and the saving you make to your own soul for not doing too much damage to this beautiful planet. You – or the person in charge of your company car fleet – will have to do your own calculations, but you're going to have to go a long way&nbsp;to make it worth it. One to consider if you're a career minicab driver, I'd have thought.Price aside, what's it's like? Both very impressive and absolutely unlovable. Impressive because it's a seven-seat car that goes 64 miles on a gallon of petrol and emits 101 grams of CO2 per kilometre. 101! Couldn't they have tried just a teeny bit harder and got it under 100 and the vehicle tax down to zero? Isn't that the automotive engineering equivalent of declaring on 99 not out? The more basic, smaller-wheeled, cheaper Icon model emits just 96g, so they can do it if they try.Inside, everything is well thought out and works, without being especially cosy or inviting. I do like the way the seats get progressively higher the farther back you go, so everyone can see out of the front. Hey, why not make your journey more fun by bringing along a bucket of popcorn and pretending it's a&nbsp;family trip to the cinema?What's the film? NotSpeedwith Keanu Reeves and Sandra Bullock anyway (20 years old, can you believe it?). The view from – or the experience of driving, or just being in – a Prius+ is never going to do much for your adrenaline levels. If a normal Prius is like driving a sewing machine, this is like driving a bigger sewing machine. Not that driving thrill is really the point, of course.I prefer the original to look at, too – there's a futuristic neatness and symmetry to its low-drag lozenge shape. The bigger one clearly shares DNA, but it's less successful on the larger scale. But then no one gets a people carrier for its looks. You get one to carry people.Toyota Prius+ ExcelPrice£29,445Top speed103mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11.3 secondsCombined fuel consumption64.2mpgCO2emissions101g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating4/10
Not renowned for its shooting games, Nintendo’s upcoming Wii U gameSplatoonis a departure for Japan’s monolithic toymaker. Its devotion to making family entertainment means there’s no bloodshed, the action revolving around paintballs used to plaster ground, walls and competitors in your team’s colour, the winner decided by total floor area spattered. In addition to walking about firing your paint gun, each character can turn into a squid, swimming at high speed through paint of your colour but getting mired in patches of their opponent’s paint. It produces hilariously intense battles that force seasoned shooter-players to rethink their approach when the floor is your most important target rather than other players. As you’d expect from Nintendo, even in its pre-release form there’s a level of polish and refinement that few developers can match.
GRID differentiates itself from the morass of extremely similar racing games by getting rid of car modification, artistic paint respraying and tacked-on storylines, focusing all its attention on the track. There’s no painted-on racing line telling you where to steer and brake, and on its default difficulty level your fellow racers don’t conveniently slow down in the final lap to let you win, leaving all the work down to you. It doesn’t look like much compared to Gran Turismo 6 or Forza Horizon, but if you’re looking for an uncompromising driving challenge, you’ll like GRID Autosport.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKValiant Hearts: The Great War, PS3 &amp; PS4Telling a human story of the first world war, Valiant Hearts shows what it was like to be caught up in the fighting, from the perspective of a soldier, a conscript and civilians. Presented in charming, hand-drawn 2D, it’s an old-school adventure at heart, wanting you to find objects and solve straightforward puzzles to progress. Its dexterity-based challenges are less inspiring, but they won’t hold you up for long because Valiant Hearts isn’t a game about twitch reflexes or consequence-free violence. It’s a delightful interactive history lesson, with a sad, unsentimentally told story that encompasses love, death and loyalty; subjects most games wouldn’t touch with a 40ft pole.Ubisoft, £11.99Blue Estate: The Game, PS4Blue Estate: The Game is an on-rails shooter in which you start as Tony Luciano, swiping strands of greasy hair from from your eyes before laying waste to waves of goons. Wielding the PS4 controller like a light gun, you’re rewarded for aiming hot leaden justice at the heads and crotches of assailants, the crass sense of humour and heavy rock soundtrack joined by a knowing early joke about about how much it re-uses its environments.Focus Home Interactive, £15.99
It is Glastonbury 2024, and you've got a front-row spot for the headline act, the Rolling Stones, concluding their fifth farewell tour. You need a drink badly, so you get out your smartphone and dial up a drone, which within minutes delivers a plastic bottle from the bar a mile away.Science fiction? Not necessarily, after the online retailer Amazon revealed that it had written to the US Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) asking to test drones that could fly at up to 50mph and for 30 minutes at a time to deliver packages weighing up to 5lb (2.3kg).In theletter (pdf), Amazon's head of public policy, Paul Misener, says that "in the past five months we have made advancements towards the development of highly automated aerial vehicles" for its new service, which it calls Amazon Prime Air. Misener says the five-pound limit covers 86% of products sold on Amazon.Meanwhile, the FAA's British counterpart told the Guardian that it could foresee a time when, once drones have proven their airworthiness and ability to avoid obstacles safely, they would be allowed to operate autonomously. Under current legislation, Britain bans drones from being used within 50 metres of a building or person, and insists they must remain within line of sight – typically 500 metres – of the operator."The line of sight provision could go away some time in the future when we see a device able to make decisions about avoiding whatever objects are out there," said a Civil Aviation Authority spokesman. "They would also have to avoid other aerial obstacles, of course." Would-be operators would have to demonstrate the potential safety of their devices to the CAA to win permission.Given a 25-mile range, Amazon's drones could serve an area of nearly 2,000 sq miles – far greater than the 609 sq miles inside the M25, which has a maximum radius of less than 20 miles.Future improvements to drones could mean they would be available to all sorts of companies, according to one academic expert. Darren Ansell, aerospace engineering lead at the University of Central Lancashire, said: "A pizza company might not want to own and operate drones – so you could have operators offering a sort of transportation or postal-style service."Amazon's chief executive, Jeff Bezos,floated the idea of drone-based deliverylast December, though many critics were scornful of the idea, suggesting it was a publicity stunt as criticism swelled over the company's working practices and tax affairs.But Misener's letter to the FAA says Amazon wants to bring the service into use "as soon as we are permitted to do so". It adds: "One day, seeing Amazon Prime Air will be as normal as seeing mail trucks on the road today."With machine intelligence improving rapidly – as signalled by moves such as the £300m acquisition of the British artificial intelligence company DeepMind by Google this year – it is possible that Amazon, which has invested heavily in machine learning systems, could be among the first to crack the development of "safe" drones that can steer themselves. Alternatively, remote control as used by the military to pilot missile drones could be used.Amazon says FAA regulations mean it has had to test its drones "indoors or in other countries" – though Amazon UK has not responded to questions about whether those countries have included the UK, or could in future. With the UK being a key market for Amazon, that seems very possible.Ansell said the possible scenarios for drone use were growing all the time. "They could be almost like smartphones, where you just download a new app on to them and they can do something new." Key challenges were improving reliability – "they so far have the worst accident rate of any form of aviation" – and battery life, presently a maximum of 30 minutes.The biggest hurdle, Ansell said, was the regulatory climate. Both the US and UK still strictly regulate commercial use of drones. In its plea to the FAA, Amazon says there are be multiple safety systems for the test drones, including automatic return if it loses contact with its controller, and a "kill switch" that the controller can use to force a landing.Amazon will know that neither the FAA nor the CAA has so far been forgiving on those who have failed to control their drones. The CAA has successfully prosecuted two people in the UK for drone offences this year. One man lost control of his homemade one, which flew close to a road bridge over a river and landed near a nuclear facility. The other flew one over Alton Towers and was deemed to have been out of the line of sight.In the US, New York police have expressed concerns that use of drones is running ahead of FAA permissions, after a privately owned one crashed in midtown Manhattan. Another drone alarmed pedestrians in Times Square as it hovered over them during the Super Bowl. A police officer reported a close call with another on the George Washington bridge.The FAA fined the owner of the crashed drone $2,200 (£1,300) after he flew his four-engined quadcopter off a Manhattan building last year in a "careless and reckless manner". It ricocheted off two buildings and crashed near Grand Central rail terminal near a pedestrian.
Online criminals have tried to revive sophisticated money-stealing software called Gameover Zeus - just as researchers have warned of new threats that use much of the same code and are aimed at UK users.The warnings arrived just over a month afterpolice action sought to take down the linked Gameover Zeus and Cryptolocker cybercriminal campaigns, which stole hundreds of thousands of people’s banking logins and extorted victims out of millions of pounds.The original strains targeted by police forces across the world, including the National Crime Agency and the FBI, have been in decline. But it’s become apparent criminals have sought to re-establish GameOver botnets - networks of infected machines that digital crooks use to gather up information and pass it along to their own systems - by taking the code and repurposing it to avoid detection.Security company Malcovery said a new trojan “based heavily on the GameOver Zeus binary” was spreading in spam emails claiming to come from NatWest bank, promising an online statement in an attachment. Anyone who opened the file risked being infected, as many anti-virus systems were not able to detect the malicious software, the researchers said.“Malcovery was able to identify a number of the command-and-control hosts believed to be involved in this attempt to revive the GameOver botnet. Following contact with any of these hosts, the malware began to exhibit behaviors characteristic of the GameOver trojan,” security analysts Brendan Griffin and Gary Warner said in ablog post.“This discovery indicates that the criminals responsible for GameOver’s distribution do not intend to give up on this botnet even after suffering one of the most expansive botnet takeovers/takedowns in history.”Though fresh GameOver Zeus variants will be a concern, Morten Kjærsgaard, CEO of Heimdal Security, which helped in the initial takedown of the malware, told the Guardian he believes the overlords of the original malware will increasingly use lesser-known strains to avoid law enforcement.&quot;Until we start to see a more clear movement pattern of these new Zeus variants, which are starting to surface, we can&apos;t say anything definitive about their extent,” said Kjærsgaard.“There is no doubt though, that many small malware variants could pose the same financial problem for end users as one big nasty piece of malware.”He said the kind of GameOver malware hit by the police action last month was “in a stable to slight decline state”.The GameOver Zeus botnet earned its owners more than $100m. In June, US authorities named Russian national Evgeniy Bogachev as the chief suspect behind the malware.•Shylock malware exits stage left, pursued by malware police
The LG G Watch and Samsung&apos;s Gear Live are the first Google Android Wear smartwatches and they push the boundaries of how useful a smartwatch can be.With Android Wear, Google is trying to build a uniform platform for wearable devices to create a convincing reason to buy and keep using another £170 gadget as well as a smartphone.With the G Watch and Gear Live, Google has only partially achieved that goal.Wearing themBoth watches have a large footprint on the wrist, larger than most high-end watches. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSmartwatches have always been bulky. While slimmer than some of their predecessors, the G Watch and Gear Live still fit the big watch trend – better suited to a decent-sized man&apos;s wrist, and dwarfing the more slender or typical woman&apos;s.The G Watch&apos;s metal case feels cool, but sits flat across the wrist – it&apos;s not curved. The Gear Live is curved, but doesn&apos;t have a traditional watch strap, and uses pegs locked in holes instead of a buckle.The always-on screen can be turned off in the settings, while the brightness can dimmed to save battery. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianIt&apos;s a watch, tooAndroid Wear can actually be a watch – something the (non-Wear)Pebble, which got its start via Kickstarter, is good at but which others such as theSony Smartwatch 2andSamsung Gear 2aren’t. The screen is on all the time by default, which hits the battery life badly, though you can turn it off.There are 25 watch faces to choose from on the G Watch, with more coming in the form of app downloads from Google Play. When the watch is not active, notifications show as a small banner across the bottom of the face, like the top of a card peeking up.Android WearGoogle Now displays a range of notifications, like weather, commute time, when to leave for events, football scores, etc. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianAfter waking the watch (by lifting your wrist or tapping the screen), a swipe up from the bottom reveals the first information card.Each card can be a notification, a step count, information from Google Now, calendar alerts, music playback controls or anything else an app wants to show you. The cards are only displayed when they have something new or are actively doing something, and can be dismissed by a left-to-right swipe.The cards come with an applicable background – album art for music controls, a person&apos;s face for an email (or just the first letter of their first name for those without avatars), and so on.Music controls pop up while playing music. Swiping to the left brings up track skip buttons. Works for Google Play Music, Pocket Casts and others. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSwiping up and down moves between cards; right-to-left expands the card&apos;s options for things like replying, dismissing or opening on the connected (Android-only) smartphone. Each transition is smooth and fluid, in stark contrast to most Android Wear predecessors which can lag and stutter.More advanced functions must either be accessed by speaking to the watch: &quot;OK Google, set a timer for 30 minutes&quot; for instance, or by scrolling deeper into the menus from the voice search page. The LG G Watch and Samsung Gear Live screens are large and detailed enough to display a decent amount of text, but longer emails will require a lot of scrolling.Google NowTalking to your watch works well, if you can bear doing it in public. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianAndroid Wear&apos;s killer feature is Google voice search and the intelligent digital personal assistant Google Now.Searching for things and doling out commands for actions works very well via voice – often better than on a smartphone. If it doesn&apos;t get it quite right the first time, perhaps hearing &quot;car&quot; instead of “bar&quot;, you can correct it by saying “No I said bar” and it will identify the wrong word and perform the right search or command.You still feel like an idiot talking into your watch, though.Smartphone notificationsCalendar reminders, emails, text messages, Hangouts – anything that pops up notifications on Android can be fired to an Android Wear watch. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianAndroid Wear has the best handling of smartphone notifications I’ve seen yet. Any app that appears in Android’s Notification Shade on a smartphone will also show up on the smartwatch, although you can limit the apps that can send notifications to your wrist to avoid overload.Those developers that put in a bit more effort can allow greater interaction with the app on the wrist. Gmail, for instance, you can reply via voice, archive an email or simply dismiss a notification.Heart rate and fitnessThe Gear Live has a heart rate monitor, which generally works well. If it struggles to measure the rate it helpfully suggests tightening the strap so the sensor underneath can fit more snugly against the top of your wrist, which can get a bit sweaty.Both watches count steps like a fitness tracker, but couldn’t match the accuracy of the Misfit Shine I wear every day.Step it up. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianBattery life and chargingThe LG G Watch will just about squeeze out two days of real-world use; I would often go to bed with the watch displaying just over 50% charge remaining. The Samsung Gear Live lasted around a day and a half of use. So it&apos;s another gadget to charge every night (and won&apos;t be useful until you put it on in the morning).LG’s G Watch charges via a magnetic dock, which works well – but the watch cannot charge while turned off. At night it shines a beaming light keeping you awake. I took to hiding it under my bed. You might want to charge it in another room.The Gear Live has a snap-on module that provides a micro-USB port for power, which is slightly more fiddly. Wireless charging would have been better.Apps coming, slowlyA small collection of useful apps is currently available, expanding every day. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe app selection for Android Wear is limited, but expanding as developers update their Android apps. The Evernote app, for instance, allows users to pull up recent notes on their wrist and record audio notes straight from the smartwatch.Google Maps can also give you walking directions to your wrist, vibrating when it’s time to make a turn, which works well and avoids having to pull your phone out on the street and become a mugging target.Directions, including pictures of ambiguous roundabouts pop up as and when you need them, vibrating the watch. Stick in a pair of headphones to have voice guidance too. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianPriceyThe LG G Watch costs £160, the Samsung Gear Live £170. You can buy a complete smartphone like the Moto G for much less than that.Should you buy one?The times when a smartwatch is indispensable is still quite small, mainly around notifications. Android Wear enabled me to keep my phone in my pocket for longer and avoided a lot of wasted time peering at alerts that I really didn’t need to know about. It&apos;s a lot easier to glance at a watch and ignore them.Google’s Android Wear offers a lot of potential; controlling music is useful, as is seeing incoming calls. Directions to your wrist worked better than I anticipated and I would use it all time while walking around London.As the best smartwatches to date, I would recommend the G Watch over the Gear Live unless you need the heart rate monitor. Both could be overshadowed by the incoming Motorola Moto 360, which promises to be the king of smartwatches with a round face and pretty case that looks a lot more like a high-end watch than a gadget.So unless you must have a smartwatch right now, wait. I’m not sure either would replace my clockwork watch. And that’s the biggest issue with smartwatches for many.Pros:keep your phone in your pocket, Google Now on your wrist, directions, custom watchfacesCons:one more thing to charge, big, expensive accessory, limited app selection (at the moment)Other reviews•Samsung Gear 2 and Gear Fit review: smartwatches on the up•Sony Smartwatch 2 review: a second screen for your Android phone•Pebble smartwatch review: doesn&apos;t try too hard, but does what you need•Adidas miCoach Smart Run review: a personal fitness trainer on your wrist
Google launched adedicated pageon Friday to publicise its advisory council on the right to be forgotten case which invites the public to submit their comments on the ruling and how the search giant should apply it.The European court of justice ruling means that anyone living in Europe has the right to ask search engines to remove links to stories which include their name.The company has since received more than 70,000 requests and has said that each of these needs to be assessed by a lawyer. It has started recruiting a new team of legal staff to work through the applications, it is understood.&quot;In order to help us navigate this issue we are setting up an advisory council to gather input from Europeans,&quot; theadvisory council pagestates. &quot;The advisory council will hold consultations in Europe this fall, which we intend to stream live and record.&quot;It will also invite contributions from the technology and media industries as well as government and acandemia, but Google has also asked the public to contribute through the advisory council page.&quot;For each of these requests, we’re required to weigh, on a case-by-case basis, an individual’s right to be forgotten with the public’s right to know,&quot; says the page.&quot;We want to strike this balance right. This obligation is a new and difficult challenge for us, and we’re seeking advice on the principles Google ought to apply when making decisions on individual cases.&quot;The page asks each commenter whether they are happy for their submission to be made public.The council of 10 appointees, headed by Google&apos;s executive chairman Eric Schmidt and chief legal officer David Drummond, includes academics, technologists, legal experts and a journalist.Sylvie Kaufmann is editorial director at Le Monde, Luciano Floridi is a professor of philosophy and information ethics at the Oxford Internet Institute and José-Luis Piñar has worked in various legal roles including as former director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.Lidia Kolucka-Zuk is a trained lawyer and former executive director of the Trust for Civil Society based in Warsaw, and Frank La Rue&apos;s work in human rights has included conflict negotiation and a role as special rapporteur forUN human rights council.Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger is a German MP and former justice minister, Jimmy Wales co-founded Wikipedia and Peggy Valcke is a research professor in media and telecoms regulation, online journalism and privacy and social networks.&quot;The experts&apos; public report will include recommendations for particularly difficult removal requests (such as criminal convictions); thoughts on the implications of the court&apos;s decision for European internet users, news publishers, search engines and others; and procedural steps that could improve accountability and transparency for websites and citizens,&quot; wrote Drummondin the Guardianon Thursday.•Google admits errors over Guardian &apos;right to be forgotten&apos; link deletions•Things to remember about Google and the right to be forgotten•We need to talk about the right to be forgotten
Last week it struck me that I have too many empty gadget boxes stashed away in the loft. And they quite literally struck me, falling out of the loft onto my head while I was packing up to move house.For a second I envisioned my wife coming upstairs to find me unconscious at the base of the step-ladder, buried beneath PlayStation and Xbox detritus, but fortunately, after several minutes, the landslide ceased.Speaking to friends and colleagues since then, it&apos;s clear that I&apos;m far from alone. From kitchen appliances to smartphones, many of us are carefully storing cardboard boxes, rather than binning them as soon as the gadget has been ripped free of its glossy cage. And then the boxes just sort of hang around, in garages, in lofts, in spare rooms ... gathering dust and patches of mould, and, judging by my own attic, somehow reproducing.Partly, saving these relics of consumer lust is a practical endeavour. All electrical items these days have a 12-month warranty and we worry that manufacturers will expect faulty goods to be returned in their original boxes.This isn&apos;t necessarily the case: according to Trading Standards, if you&apos;re returning a defective product under your consumer rights, as allowed by the Sales of Goods act, you can return items in whatever box you have to hand.However, if you are returning it under a manufacturer warranty or guarantee you need to abide by the T&amp;Cs which will often insist on the original packaging. In any case, having the proper box is often more handy than trying to scrabble together enough cardboard and bubble wrap to cope with that broken George Foreman 10-portion grill and griddle.There is also the eBay syndrome. Second-hand gadgets fetch a much better price on the auction site if they come in their original packaging and so cardboard boxes have become important commodities in the modern used goods economy.We often justify the cost of new gadgets by convincing ourselves that the re-sale value on older models will cover much of the cost – and with new products appearing at a staggering pace, the upgrade cycle on things like smartphones and tablets is accelerating. The boxes soon mount up.But there is also something much more profound going on. We&apos;re living in a digital age, an age of consumer electronics omnipresence. Many of us now process our lives through smartphones, laptops, tablets, games machines and personal video recorders. Our most precious memories have been outsourced to hard drives and SD cards. Gadgets were once status symbols, but they have progressed beyond that – they&apos;re so intrinsic to our lives that they have become totemic symbols – theyareus.Look at the millions of almost fetishistic unboxing videos on YouTube, where feverishily excited fans will unwrap new gizmos with an almost spiritual reverence and awe. And it&apos;s little wonder because electronics packaging has become an artform – almost as much a part of the &quot;user experience&quot; as the menu screen on the device itself. Apple has always understood this, its super stylish, minimalistic white packaging providing a sort of cardboard cathedral for every product.Packaging up nostalgiaReally though, gadgets give us enormous amounts of pleasure; they signpost moments in our lives, they are the means through which a lot of our relationships are experienced and recalled. And so it&apos;s no surprise that their packages quickly become nostalgic artifacts.I asked Twitter about the habit of squirreling away gadget packaging and was inundated with messages. &quot;I still have the boxes for my [Sega] MegaDrive and its Menacer lightgun. They&apos;ve been through me growing up and moving house 3 times,&quot; came one reply. &quot;I was recently heartbroken when I broke the original polystyrene around my C64,&quot; wrote another.One reader told me they kept the box for their Spectrum 128k computer because it reminded them of playing games with their dad – which is exactly why I still have the box for my own Sega MegaDrive. &quot;I still have the original box my copy of &apos;Creatures&apos; came in, from 1997,&quot; wrote games artist Jess Hyland. &quot;It is a treasured relic of the game that got me into games development.&quot;Keepsakes are a natural part of our nostalgic lives; we have always had them – it&apos;s just now, they come in the form of packaging – the remnants of our increasingly digitised lives. Is this sad? I don&apos;t think so. As I was picking up all the boxes that attacked me from my own attic, I recalled where I was when I bought each console, the friends I played against, the times I had. No doubt I once told myself I should keep the boxes in case I sold the machines, but deep down I probably knew I wouldn&apos;t sell them, and that this wasn&apos;t the reason I couldn&apos;t part with all this stuff.Maybe I will pull out all the polysterene and cardboard dividers and flatten the boxes – that seems sensible. But then of course, the ultimate realisation, beyond the stuff about warranties and eBay, is that none of this is sensible. Anyway, most of the boxes are now in their new home – the loft space in my current house; and there they will stay, until the next time they fall on my head, battering me with a familiar combination of cardboard and cherished memories.•Are children spending too much on digital technology?•CES 2014: the best wearable technologiesDo you keep the boxes your gadgets came in? Share pictures of yours using GuardianWitness. Just click on the &quot;contribute&quot; button. Or share on Twitter using the hashtag #boxkeepers.
Hit the road these days, and you do so with your own mission control centre in your palm, all the intel you need at the touch of a button. Truth is, I try not to be a slave to technology once I'm on the hoof: I like to leave a little of the adventure to serendipity. Once I've crowdsourced tips from Twitter, and found my flight through Skyscanner, I mainly prioritise making sure I know where I'm going once I'm there – although apps and a Wi-Fi-feeding dongle didn't stop me getting completely lost up dirt tracks in Umbria recently in perfect darkness, but at least I could FaceTime my other half back home. Mobile apps that only work when you've got supercharged Wi-Fi are no fun. There was the time I relied on GoogleMaps to get me out of a sticky situation down another dirt track somewhere else in Italy, and my roaming charges cost more than the airfare. So I especially love apps that work when you're offline. At Mr &amp; Mrs Smith we like to think ournew free appfollows our edict for everything we do: it entertains and informs. A "tempt me" function flaunts some of our favourites, and lets you create your own hit list. There's 24/7 booking support tacked to your location, the facility to search and filter by map plus access to exclusive discounts and offers. I'm pretty sure the only reason Jack Kerouac slummed it on his roadtrip was because our hotel app wasn't around back then. Assuming you've planned and booked your escape, and you're now at your destination, here's how my appy time away might roll(documenting my journey via Instagram, naturally) …TripitThis free travel organiser is the next best thing to a PA. Like a virtual Filofax, but even more streamlined, it lets you migrate all your confirmation emails (flights, car rental, hotel reservation) to one place, then it creates a fully loaded fuss-free itinerary. Although devotees to Apple'sPassbookapp needn't convert.Maps with MeGive it a tap to locate coordinates (the usual shtick) then download a map of where you are. As a pedestrian, this feels more user-friendly than Googlemaps and speedier than other navigation apps. Stick to the free version.Spotted by LocalsThis helps you find little places you might otherwise miss: I was smitten after opening the London guide (£2.49) and the first tip was for a house by my favourite architect, Ernő Goldfinger, complete with an intelligent write-up.Unesco World Heritage£1.99 iOSIt's a wonder how many historic sites pass you by on your escapes that you might have found interesting. This app's a whopper to download with so many massive images, but it is a true encyclopedia. You may not need signposting to Stonehenge or the Acropolis – but how about when you're in Ibiza, say? It ain't all clubs and cocktails: it's edifying to know when a Spanish-measure of culture awaits in the Renaissance architecture hidden away in the Old Town too.PinterestIt's not just mood boards with pretty pictures: the launch ofPlace Pinslast year gave this free discovery tool and social network added function. I curate my own stylish destination guides, which I share with friends as a way of recommending the best places to visit: geotag (or repin) images of tiny specialist shops, secret bars, under-the-radar galleries, etc, and using Foursquare technology it plots it all on an illustrated map with a sidebar including all the contact info.Mountain High: The Greatest Cycling ClimbsiOS £2.99The app version of a beautiful coffee-table book by Daniel Friebe and Pete Goding, at £2.99 it's a snip. While I'm not a cyclist, I'm a sucker for breath-nabbing views and my other half is a mamil (middle-aged man in Lycra) so hopefully this will inspire long bike rides around Europe.Tip MeAndroidBrits can be awkward about tipping, but as someone who grew up in New York I fear I'll be struck by lightning if I don't get local gratuities right. Having spent a lot of time in Asia too, I know it's important you get the balance and not over-tip out of context with the local economy or under-tip in places where workers rely on it.Tip Calculatoris a similar app for iOS.PostagramIt seems a bit long-winded to upload an image from a far-flung tropical destination and ask a computer to send it from the States to a UK address. But hey, it means the grandparents get a photo of their cutey-pies on a beach instead of the clichéd purple sunset card, I'll never get around to sending anyway … Shame the design of the glossy mailed item is a bit tacky, with an ugly QR code. The app is free then it's $1.99 to send a card internationally (outside of the States).NotabliI hate clogging other people's social feeds with my daughter in the pool/on a camel/covered in blue ice-cream; this free channel lets you share holiday snaps and videos privately with friends and family who elect to be subjected. And when your kids turn 18 they're less likely to sue you for circulating pictures of them naked on a sunlounger but for some massive sunglasses.CloudspotteriOS £1.99On days when you wake up to grey skies, this helps you appreciate the fluffiness above and have fun looking up rather than grizzling at the cumulonimbus blocking your sunshine. As a game it lets you earn points for spotting rarer formations such as a sci-fi-looking bubbly mammatus. A silver lining when it's overcast on your jollies.
Michael Acton Smith is moving to a creative leadership role at Mind Candy, the founder told the Guardian on Friday, as the company moves to more aggressively target the US market and gear the company up for floatation.Acton Smith said a new chief executive had not been found but that chief operating officer and chief financial officer Divinia Knowles would become interim president of the firm.&quot;My role is very different now to when we started the company and I&apos;ve drifted away from the creative side that I really enjoy,&quot; said Acton Smith. &quot;It sounds dramatic but it&apos;s exciting, and means I can spend more time building up our sketchbooks and doing creative things like developing new characters.&quot;Michael Acton Smith announces stepping down from the CEO role in a YouTube videoMind Candy has seen huge success with Moshi Monsters, a children&apos;s game that has been successfully franchised into a wide range of merchandise, but had been caught out by the rapid adoption of tablet games by children.There was also concern the company was too dependent on Moshi, which led it to develop the new mobile game PopJam, and the new game World of Warriors, developed by its studio in Brighton.Knowles has been with the company for eight years, and says she thinks the company can realise its big ambitions of &quot;becoming the next generation of family entertainment&quot;.The Guardian understands that Mind Candy had tried and failed to secure valuations of $1bn from US investment firms during 2013.Acton Smith would not say whether a new CEO has been found, but it is likely that the US market will be a priority for the firm.Saul Klein, of Mind Candy investors Index Ventures, said Mind Candy has always been very ambitious, and that it wants to be the Disney for the 21st century.&quot;None of us want our children playing on Facebook or SnapChat – MindCandy is stepping into that breach to offer a safe, creative digital environment for children,&quot; said Klein.He emphasised that Mind Candy&apos;s priorities are to develop games for mobile and to expand its portfolio of games brands.&quot;Ultimately, our ambition is to take Mind Candy public,&quot; said Acton Smith. &quot;We can do that for more than $1bn. We&apos;re super ambitious, and Europe needs more technology startups to be super ambitious.&quot;Games industry commentatorNicholas Lovellwrote in response that the new CEO will have to grapple with Mind Candy&apos;s identity.&quot;Mind Candy is essentially two different operations: It is a lower-growth merchandising business that has a popular brand (Moshi Monsters)that it can continue to exploit through multiple channels [and] it is a scrappy startup that needs to discover who its customers are, how to reach them, what they value and what they will pay for,&quot; he wrote.&quot;Mind Candy has a whole big team executing against a plan. But its challenge is not to deliver what it did last year but 10% better (or 50% better, or 100% better). It is to disrupt and avoid being disrupted. It is to take the tenets of theLean Startupand focus on the tricky phases of Customer Discovery (who are my customers), Customer Validation (can I persuade them to love my product) and Product/Market Fit (can I get them to give me wheelbarrows-full of money).&quot;That’s a start up mentality. And trying to innovate like a scrappy startup when your organisation is naturally ossifying into a corporation is very difficult.&quot;OnGlassdoor, a site which allows employees to review their employer, 18 reviews by people claiming to be current or former staff were mixed. Most described talented, ambitious people but several indicated they disapproved of senior management, including the CEO.•Moshi Monsters creator Mind Candy launch PopJam as &apos;Instagram for kids&apos;
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPinboard turns five &gt;&gt;Pinboard BlogThe inimitable Maciej Ceglowski:Any site that aspires to be an archive starts life with a credibility problem. The Internet is strewn with the corpses (or in some cases, zombies) of sites that once promised to save your links forever. As people keep discovering, building a bookmarking site is easy, but making a business of bookmarking is hard. Like one of those leathery, spiny plants that is able to thrive in the desert where everything else dies, I have tried to find ways to adapt to this hostile business environment. And I have feasted on the flesh of my rivals!I raise this brimming skull to the awesome group of users and fellow-travelers who have made it possible.…My strategy of pre-emptively antagonizing anyone who might possibly have an interest in acquiring or funding the site has worked wonderfully. In five years, I haven't received a single email from an investor or potential acquirer. The closest I came was a few months ago, when the new Delicious owners reached out to me about providing "vision", but I think they were just unfamiliar with my oeuvre. They learned quickly.Does good business, too. (We use the non-archiving, one-time pay version.)The Usborne Book of the Future &gt;&gt; ScribdFrom 1979, this book - taking "a trip in time to the year 2000 and beyond" - is fascinating, both for what it gets right and wrong. Correct prediction: onesies. Incorrect prediction: robots capable of bringing your drink. (Yes, we all wish it were the other way round.)Roku is top US streaming media player &gt;&gt; Advanced TelevisionThe report – The Evolving Market For Streaming Media Devices – found Roku accounted for nearly one-half of streaming media players (46%) purchased in the US in 2013, while Apple, its closest competitor, had 26%.Roku is also the most-used streaming media player in the US. Among US broadband households with a streaming media player, 44% use a Roku player the most versus 26% that use Apple TV the most. The gap has widened since 2013, when 37% of streaming media player owners used Roku most and 24% used Apple TV most."Multiple factors have allowed Roku to outpace Apple in US sales and usage," said Barbara Kraus, director, research, Parks Associates. "Roku has always had a close association with Netflix, the largest source of video downloads, and currently offers more than 1,700 channel apps as well as a choice of models with different features and price points, all of which appeal to consumers' purchasing instincts. With Amazon entering this CE category, there will be renewed pressure on all players to develop the best combination of 'can't miss' content with a simple and intuitive interface."The CE category for streaming media players has been robust despite competition from streaming 'sticks' such as the Google Chromecast. According to Parks Associates' 1Q 2014 survey of 10,000 US broadband households, Google Chromecast sold as many units in six months as Roku sold in 2013, but overall, usage of the Chromecast has steadily declined since its introduction.FTC alleges Amazon unlawfully billed parents for millions of dollars in children's unauthorised in-app charges &gt;&gt; Federal Trade CommissionThe FTC is filing a complaint in federal court:According to the complaint, kids' games often encourage children to acquire virtual items in ways that blur the lines between what costs virtual currency and what costs real money. In the app "Ice Age Village," for example, the complaint noted that children can use "coins" and "acorns" to buy items in the game without a real-money charge. However, they can also purchase additional "coins" and "acorns" using real money on a screen that is visually similar to the one that has no real-money charge. The largest quantity purchase available in the app would cost $99.99.The complaint highlights internal communications among Amazon employees as early as December 2011 that said allowing unlimited in-app charges without any password was "…clearly causing problems for a large percentage of our customers," adding that the situation was a "near house on fire."The FTC previously sued Apple (and won a settlement).The rise of thin, mini and insert skimmers &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityBrian Krebs on the systems criminals put into ATMs to collect magnetic stripe data:Like most electronic gadgets these days, ATM skimmers are getting smaller and thinner, with extended battery life. Here's a look at several miniaturized fraud devices that were pulled from compromised cash machines at various ATMs in Europe so far this year.According to a new report from theEuropean ATM Security Team(EAST), a novel form of mini-skimmer was reported by one country. Pictured below is a device designed to capture the data stored on an ATM card's magnetic stripe as the card is inserted into the machine. While most card skimmers are made to sit directly on top of the existing card slot, these newer mini-skimmers fit snugly inside the card reader throat, obscuring most of the device. This card skimmer was made to fit inside certain kinds of cash machines made by NCR.Smartwatches blur outlook for Google Glass &gt;&gt; WSJGlass will face tough comparisons against smartwatches. Though made for different body parts, both products are designed primarily to give users a quicker way to get information or check messages without taking out their phones. For example, Google says notifications in smartphone apps will show up on both Android-powered watches and Glass.Watches will be much cheaper. Glass costs $1,500 today, though the price is expected to drop over time. Samsung Electronics's new Android smartwatch, the Gear Live, costs $199.Watches will also offer more apps for now. Glass has only 67 apps as Google strives to get software developers to design apps that take advantage of the eyewear's features. One such app, Livestream, broadcasts live video from Glass's built-in camera.Getting an app approved for Glass can be time-consuming—some developers at Google's conference said it can take months. By contrast, smartwatch apps are typically approved in about 90 minutes.…"In consumer markets, Glass will require a lot of cultural engineering," said Forrester research analyst J.P. Gownder. "It could take years for the public to get there."Samsung drastically cuts Galaxy S5 orders for Q3 while the Korean press rips into Samsung's recent quarterly failure &gt;&gt; Patently AppleChina's Economic Daily News (EDN) this morning reports that with Samsung Electronics' Galaxy smartphone sales having been seriously impacted recently, Taiwan component makers' orders for the Galaxy S5 have greatly reduced to only 15m units for the third quarter, down from 21m in the second, while the Galaxy S4's orders also dropped from six million units to five million."EDN specifically claims that Taiwan-based component suppliers such as TXC, Merry, Giantplus, Capella Microsystems, HannsTouch Solution, Young Fast, Unimicron Technology, Tripod Technology and Silitech Technology are expected to be affected by the reduced orders.I couldn't find the EDN source, but assuming for a moment it's reliable, thecontrast with 2013 (and the GS4)is thought-provoking:Samsung Electronics revises its orders for parts and components used for making the Galaxy S4 by a third, for the next quarter this year.According to an industry source the parts and component orders will be enough for production of 20-25 million units of Galaxy S4 in the second quarter and 20m units in the third quarter, the sources indicated.20m flagships in Q3 2013, but only 15m in Q3 2014?EC distorts market by refusing to break free from lock-in &gt;&gt; Free Software FoundationIn April, the Commission signed two contracts with Microsoft: Anagreement for "high-level services"worth €44m, and aframework agreement on software licensing conditions. The actual licenses are provided by Hewlett-Packard undera separate contract from 2012, worth €50m. The contracts cover the Commission itself, and 54 other EU organisations."We are extremely disappointed about the lack of progress here," says FSFE president Karsten Gerloff. "The Commission has not even looked for viable alternatives. Its lazy approach to software procurement leaves the Commission open to allegations of inertia, and worse."The Commission recentlyadmitted publicly for the first timethat it is in "effective captivity" to Microsoft. Butdocuments obtained by FSFEshow that the Commission has made no serious effort to find solutions based on Open Standards. In consequence, a large part of Europe's IT industry is essentially locked out of doing business with the Commission."A large part is locked out"?Rumour: Google prepping Play Store with device-specific app restoration options &gt;&gt; Android PoliceThe new restoration process will apparently be part of the Play Store app itself, and would allow users to choose from a list of backups from their other devices, so if you're setting up the Play Store on a new (or freshly wiped) phone, you could choose to restore a backup from a phone, thereby restoring all your phone-specific apps and eschewing the apps you use only on tablets or other devices. Our information also indicates there may be an option to add on individual apps to the backup you choose.What isn't clear right now is exactly what is meant by data. Of course restoring actual app data between devices would be a boon for Android users, but it's just as likely that the new feature is using "data" in the same vague way as the current setup process.A hugely welcome step, if overdue; Apple's iCloud backup has done this for years. (Then again, the absence of this feature principally affects people who replace their phone often - which most people don't.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
I have a Windows 2000 office product installed on a Vista laptop PC purchased in 2007. I now can no longer save any data on work spreadsheets sent to me by another company. However, I have received conflicting advice/opinions. Some say I can just purchase Office 2010 or 2013 software. Others say I would have to download Windows 7 or 8 in order to upgrade my Office package. Would you be able to offer any kind of advice?WalterWhen it comes to technology, some people like to be on the leading edge, buying new products when they come out. Others prefer to be on the trailing edge, and only update when they have to. However, if you&apos;re running a business, it&apos;s a really bad idea to fall off the trailing edge. When this happens, you end up using slow products with compatibility problems, because the newer versions have extra features and, often, new file formats. Your software is no longer supported, and therefore represents a security risk. Finally, when you do upgrade, you face a very steep learning curve. In this case, you might have to jump from Office 2000 to Office 2013, and absorb more than a decade of change all at once.Unfortunately, it&apos;s not clear why you can no longer save data. Old programs can&apos;t be expected to handle newer file formats, but if you can load the files, you should be able to save them. Even if the worksheets are protected, you can use the &quot;Save as&quot; feature to save them under a slightly different name. For example, you could add -ed1 to the end of the existing name.In this case, Microsoft provided a free Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Word, Excel, and PowerPoint File Formats that works on Windows XP SP3 (ie XP with Service Pack 3 installed) as well as on Vista SP1 or SP2. You should be able to download it fromMicrosoft&apos;s download centre,but if not, you can get it from theMajor Geekswebsite.The problem is that Microsoft Office 2000 (which dates from March 1999) and Office 2003 are no longer supported, so ideally you should not use them. As with Windows XP, Microsoft is no longer patching their security holes, so you would be more vulnerable to malware that targets Office.A new OfficeThe simplest option would be to buy a retail copy of Microsoft Office Home and Student 2010 or, for business use, Home and Business 2010. If you buy it on DVD then you will be able to uninstall it from your current computer and reinstall it on a new one, when you upgrade your laptop. If you buy a cheaper PKC (Product Key Card) version of Office 2010, this will be tied to the PC on which you install it. (Following complaints, Microsoft changed the PKC license for Office 2013 to make it transferable to a new PC.)Microsoft Office Home and Business 2010 runs on Windows Vista SP1 or SP2 and needs a 500MHz processor, 256MB of memory, and 3GB of free hard drive space. I&apos;d recommend at least a 1GHz processor and 2GB of memory for acceptable performance. Either way, you don&apos;t need to upgrade from Vista to run Office 2010.That&apos;s not the case withMicrosoft Office 2013. If you want to use this version, then you will have to upgrade to Windows 7 or Windows 8.Windows 7/8 users also have the option to subscribe toOffice 365 Small Business Premiumfor £100.80 per year, plus VAT (£120.96). This gets you both desktop and online versions of the eight main Office programs, plus the use of web-based versions of the programs on up to five devices (PCs, Macs, and selected tablets and smartphones). Each user also gets a business email service, a website, telephone support, and a terabyte of online storage in OneDrive for Business. You can get a free trial if you want to test it.Office 365 Small Business is cheaper at £39.60 plus VAT per user per year. However, this doesn&apos;t include desktop versions of the Office programs or the Office Mobile Apps (Word, Excel, and PowerPoint) for tablets and smartphones.If you buy a laptop with a trial version of Microsoft Office pre-installed, you must uninstall this before installing a retail copy of Microsoft Office, to avoid confusing Microsoft&apos;s online activation system.Big bang upgradeWindows Vista is currently in its extended support phase of itslifecycle. This will end on 11 April 2017, so you could use it for almost three more years. The problem is that your 2007 laptop is already seven years old, and probably slow and clunky by today&apos;s&apos; standards.A typical Vista laptop had an Intel Core 2 Duo processor, 2GB of memory, and an 80GB or perhaps a 160GB hard drive. If your laptop has 2GB or preferably 4GB plus a midrange processor such as a 2.2GHz Core 2 Duo T6600 or a Pentium Dual Core T4400 then it&apos;s probably survivable. If it has less than 2GB and a slower Celeron processor then you should probably upgrade sooner rather than later.Ideally, compare your old Vista laptop with a newer model running Windows 7 or Windows 8. Video half an hour of typical work either using a camera on a tripod – a webcam would do – or a program that takes a continuous video of the screen. (This may affect the performance.) You can run the two videos side by side and get a good idea of the difference in speed, particularly the times taken to load programs, save files, and surf web pages.The videos will enable you to calculate how much time you would save by buying a new PC and, from your hourly rate, how quickly it would pay for itself. I&apos;d expect an average Windows 8 PC to be roughly twice as fast as an old Vista machine for ordinary tasks -- though you probably won&apos;t type any quicker. It depends on your workload. If you have any heavyweight recompilations that take many minutes, or you need frequent reboots, then sticking with your old laptop isthrowing money away. (And XP is even worse than Vista.)A new PC running Windows 7 will require hardly any relearning: you should be able to use it immediately. All versions of Windows 7 are current Microsoft products and will be on sale until 31 October and supported until 14 January 2020. Windows 7 Professional will continue as a current Microsoft product to a future date yet to be announced. It&apos;s the business standard.Windows 8You could also upgrade to Windows 8. This has some advantages such as much quicker start and wake-up times, better security, access to new Windows Store apps, and slightly better performance. Of course, you will have more to learn, though most problems can be solved simply by typing a few characters into the start screen.Some traditional PC users didn&apos;t like the original touch-first version of Windows 8, but Microsoft has shipped two significant upgrades since then. The current Windows 8.1 Update 1 is much more amenable to mouse and keyboard users. WatchScott Hanselman&apos;s Windows 8 tutorial videosbefore deciding.Windows 8.1 Update 1 isn&apos;t perfect but, when properly set up, it&apos;s an excellent operating system. If you can benefit from using it, don&apos;t let the ignoranti put you off.
Loredana Paglialonga leans across her father's prone body and whispers in his ear: "Spinta, Papi, spinta" ("Push Daddy, push"). It is impossible to tell whether Anselmo Paglialonga, a former major in the Italian carabinieri, has heard. Paralysed from head to toe withamyotrophic lateral sclerosis(ALS), Anselmo is completely "locked in". Unable to speak or open his eyes, his only hope of communicating is via a state-of-the-art neuroheadset attached to his scalp.Designed byEmotiv Systems, a Californian neuroengineering company, theEpoc headsetpurports to give users the power to control objects with their thoughts and was asuccès fouon Kickstarter, where users stumped up $1.6m to fund its development – 16 times Emotiv's original target.Indeed right now, I am told, the 14 marble-sized electrodes in the Epoc's plastic clip-on frame are monitoring the EEG signals from Anselmo's brain and sending them wirelessly to a control unit. By analysing those signals using a machine-learning algorithm,BrainControl, a Sienna-based developer, claims to be able to distinguish Anselmo's thoughts and intentions from other brain noise and use those signals to operate a cursor on a tablet computer. The cursor has three positions: "si", "no", and "non so" ("yes", "no", and "don't know"). In theory, all Anselmo has to do to move the cursor from one position to another is to think "push"."I usually ask people to imagine pushing an object with their mind," says Pasquale Fedele, the engineer who designed BrainControl's machine-learning algorithm. "Once we have captured the thought "push", the next stage is to train the subject to get control of the cursor."According to Loredana, Anselmo, who is 77 and has had ALS for 11 years, has previously used BrainControl to correctly name his five-year-old grandson, Theodore, who was born after he became locked-in, and to inform the family that he is suffering dental pain. It is because Loredana is convinced her father is cognitively aware and that BrainControl is his only hope of communicating that she has invited Fedele to her home in Bari to install the latest version of BrainControl's operating system."If it wasn't for BrainControl, we wouldn't have known that Anselmo was in pain and that he can still see, even though he can no longer open his eyelids unaided," she tells me. "Before he started using the headset, doctors at the hospital in Bari had diagnosed him with dementia. Now we know that is not true and that he is fully aware of what is going on around him."I first met Fedele and his business partner Jarrod Fath at a "masterclass" for digital health startups in London in November 2013. Wearing a mismatching jacket and tie and with his low-key delivery, Fath cut a far less assured figure than his corporately attired competitors but, though BrainControl failed to place in the top three, his presentation was, to my mind, the most intriguing.How could a device funded by Kickstarter and incorporating nothing more than a clever machine-reading algorithm read the very stuff of consciousness? Was this just the way medical breakthroughs happened in the era of Big Data or was the Epoc headset the modern equivalent of one of those quack phrenology devices from the early part of the 19th century that claimed to be able to read personality from the shape of a person's cranium?Fath's pitch at the masterclass was certainly persuasive: worldwide, some 3.7m people suffer from severe communication and learning disabilities due to conditions such as ALS, stroke, multiple sclerosis and traumatic brain injury. Of these, approximately 660,000 live in the developed world, he explained. The majority communicated using eye-tracking systems but for those who could no longer open or move their eyes and who were effectively imprisoned inside their bodies, neurosensing technology was their only hope. "BrainControl gives disabled people the power to control objects with their thoughts," said Fath. "These thoughts are acquired by an EEG headset, interpreted by a computer and can be used to control just about anything from a communicator to home automation or robotics. Think of it as like a mental joystick."Afterwards, I approached Fath and Fedele for more information. I was keen to understand precisely how the Epoc headset and their brain-control interface (BCI) worked and whether the system had been tested in a laboratory setting. Fedele and Fath responded that no, until now trials had been on an ad hoc basis using patients recruited by word of mouth, but that they hope to conduct a controlled study with a specialist neurology hospital shortly. To date, 21 people with tetraplegia (paralysis of all four limbs and torso), 18 of whom are in a locked-in state, had experimented with BrainControl, mostly with positive results, they said. However, when I pressed them about how precisely the headset and control panel could distinguish between different cortical outputs, including those generated by facial muscles, their response left me uneasy. The technical specifications of the headset and details of the background research were available on Emotiv's website, they said. They had simply licensed a software development kit from the company and tweaked Epoc's "Cognitiv Suite" using "an adaptive Bayesian algorithm" that could be customised for "different needs in different patients". Unfortunately, as this algorithm was a "new proprietary method", Fedele and Fath could not give me further details.ALS is a neurodegenerative disease that usually attacks both upper and lower motor neurons and causes degeneration in the brain and spinal cord. First described in 1869 by the French neurologist Jean-Martin Charcot, ALS attacks about one person in 100,000. Between 1-2% of these cases are associated with the mutation of a specific gene, SOD1, that is believed to make a defective protein that is toxic to motor nerve cells. A further 10% of cases run in families. The vast majority are a mystery, however.A locked-in patient connected to the BrainControl communication system.ALS tends to affect people between the ages of 40 and 70 and men more than women. A common early symptom is a painless weakness in a limb or difficulty with speech or walking. However, this weakness quickly spreads to other parts of the body, causing progressive paralysis of the legs, trunk and diaphragm, at which point patients may elect to have a tracheotomy so their lungs can be ventilated mechanically. Typically, this degeneration takes three to five years, with the head and face being the last part of the body to be affected. When a patient cannot speak or move any part of their body, including their eyes, they are deemed to have "completely locked-in syndrome" (CLIS). In the US, where up to 30,000 Americans have the disease at any one time, past victims include the baseball player, Lou Gehrig – hence the alternative name "Lou Gehrig's disease" – while in Britain, past victims include the actor David Niven. (Italy, for reasons that are unclear, has one of the highest incidence of ALS in Europe, with unusual clusters having been reported in professional football players and agricultural workers.)Caring for a person with ALS is a full-time commitment. Patients have to be washed and turned regularly, and in the latter stages, when it becomes impossible to chew food or swallow, a feeding tube has to be inserted in the stomach to ensure a steady supply of nutrients. One of the most difficult moments comes when the lungs begin to fail and the patient, if they are able to communicate, or their family must decide whether to connect them to a ventilator. Once you elect to have a tracheotomy there is no going back. In theory, the ventilator can keep you alive indefinitely, even if you slip into a coma.For obvious reasons, there have been few dispatches from this nether world and fewer still that have attained literary permanence. The exception isThe Diving Bell and the Butterfly, the remarkable memoir by the former French editor ofElle, Jean-Dominique Bauby, which he dictated by laboriously blinking his left eyelid, the only part of his body that was not paralysed, as a colleague held up letters arranged in order of their frequency in the French lexicon. In this way, blinked Bauby: "My cocoon becomes less oppressive, and my mind takes flight like a butterfly."But Anselmo, unlike Bauby, is completely locked in. Although in the early stages of his illness he could use eye-recognition software to spell out words and phrases, he can no longer open his eyes and for all intents and purposes is a prisoner in his own body.Not surprisingly, families of ALS patients are desperate to find a way of releasing their loved ones from this purgatory. In a Catholic country such as Italy, where religious belief runs deep, the search for a solution can become a test of faith. For Loredana, the second of Anselmo's four daughters, that search led her to the Italian ALS association, which in turn put her in touch with Fedele. It was in response to her approach that Fedele decided to take a closer look at Emotiv's Cognitiv suite to see if there might be a way of adapting it for patients with locked-in syndrome.A scene from the movie of The Diving Bell and the Butterfly. Photograph: c.Focus/Everett/Rex FeaturesTwo years before, in July 2010, Tan Le, the 37-year-old Australian co-founder of Emotiv,had wowed TED Oxfordby showcasing the Epoc headset and Cognitiv suite on stage. Accompanied by a collaborator, Dan Evans, Le demonstrated how with just a few seconds' training Evans could make a virtual cube appear and disappear just by thinking about it. The demonstration drew cheers from the Oxford audience and gleeful hand-clapping from Le. However, the technical details of precisely how the Epoc had enabled Evans to "control a virtual object with his mind" were never addressed. Instead, Le finished her talk with a slideshow of the headset's diverse applications and an invitation to developers to license the technology.One of the advantages of the Epoc headset is that it retails for just $300 – a fraction of the price of a clinical grade EEG – and within months of Le's talk Emotiv's sales were booming. Emotiv's customers included everyone from gamers to car and aerospace companies, to home experimenters attracted by the idea of using the headset as a "mind-training" device to improve their powers of concentration or to perform party ticks, such as operating a remote-control toy helicopter. For the most part, these early adopters were unconcerned by precisely how Emotiv's machine-learning algorithm was able to "read" thoughts. All they knew is they liked it and it appeared to work.Professional scientific researchers were also intrigued by Epoc's potential. Ever since the German neurologist Hans Berger discovered electroencephalography in the 1920s, psychologists have dreamed of being able to read thoughts and intentions from EEG traces. This research took a huge leap forward in the 1960s with the discovery that biofeedback mechanisms could be used to prompt the self-regulation of slow cortical potentials (SCRs) – changes in brain voltage emanating from nerves in the cortex – opening up the potential for the self-control of epilepsy and other neurological conditions. At the same time, researchers began looking at brain control interfaces to communicate with locked-in patients.In clinical conditions, much more sensitive equipment is used to detect brain activity, leading some neuroscientists to be sceptical about Emotiv. Photograph: Burger/Phanie/Rex FeaturesHowever, even with clinical grade EEG sets it is difficult to avoid recording muscle movements (when concentrating on a mental activity, people tend to furrow their brows and make involuntarily facial movements – see box). It is also notoriously difficult to design experiments in such a way so as to exclude the possibility of subliminal signalling and placebo effects. Nevertheless, in some experiments scientists reported that partially locked-in patients were able to achieve up to 70% accuracy, so we know that it is possible to communicate with someone via EEG. However, these levels have only been achieved by a few patients after extended periods of training in a controlled setting and to date no CLIS patient has ever satisfactorily demonstrated control of a brain signal. Little wonder that scientists who have spent a lifetime studying BCIs are dismissive of the hype surrounding the Epoc headset and BrainControl."Emotiv and BrainControl do not have not the slightest scientific evidence that the technology can do what they claim," says Niels Birbaumer, director of the Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioural Neurobiology at the University of Tübingen. "We tested [the headset] on an ALS patient in our lab and concluded that in most cases it is not measuring EEG but eye movements and muscle movements."Klaus-Robert Müller, co-head of the Berlin Brain Computer Interface at Berlin Technical University, is similarly dismissive of the hype surrounding the Epoc, telling one journalist: "If you have a small car and you put aMercedes label on it, that doesn't make it a Mercedes."Although Emotiv claims that the Cogntiv Suite allows users to "manipulate objects only with the power of their thought", its website makes clear that Epoc is not a medical device. It also warns developers who are thinking of working with disabled people that, while the headset "is capable of being used in a support setting", the risks lie entirely with the developer and end user. Emotiv's disclaimer continues: "All mental detection systems suffer from a finite rate of false positive and false negative detections. In other words, sometimes detection can occur without the user's deliberate intention, and sometimes a deliberate attempt to make an action occur may fail or select a different output. This is as much to do with the user's level of training and state of mind as it is to do with the detection systems – it is unavoidable in any BCI system."So what is going on here? Is the Epoc recording pure brain wave activity or some combination of EEG and muscle movement? And does it really have the potential to transform the lives of people with locked-in syndrome?The headset and tablet used by BrainControl.I put these questions to Tan Le at a developer event in San Francisco in February where she was unveiling a lightweight version of the Epoc, called Insight, comprising just five EEG sensors instead of 14. Le is no longer involved in the day-to-day management of Emotiv Systems, having stepped down from the board in 2010 to concentrate on a new company, Emotiv Lifesciences. But to all intents and purposes Le remains the public face of Emotiv.To my surprise, Le freely admitted there had been no controlled clinical trials. Instead, the initial studies on what would become the Epoc were conducted at a Melbourne lab under the auspices of an "independent review board" using student volunteers. However, while acknowledging that the hype generated by her TED talk may have raised expectations about the Epoc to unrealistic levels, Le made no apologies for encouraging developers to experiment with the Cognitiv suite. "We say, look, this is not a medically approved device, it's not a diagnostic tool, it's a consumer electronics product. But it does have these features that you can train up a machine-learning algorithm. If people are willing to try it and there's no other alternative we are not going to say no."She also said that it was irrelevant whether the Epoc was also recording muscle artefacts, as even clinical grade EEGs could not eliminate all sources of cortical "noise" and what mattered was that the algorithm was able to train correct correlations. "We don't hide the fact that we are classifying the noise artefacts that are normally superimposed on the EEG," she told me.Finally, Le directed me to several independent peer-reviewed papers featured onEmotiv's Wiki.These show that in laboratory tests the Epoc performed "significantly better than chance", suggesting that the system could distinguish intentional thoughts from other mental activity and artefacts, such as muscle movement. But another study stated that the Epoc was "not as good" as a professional clinical grade EEG, while in another its performance had been "significantly worse".The Paglialongas are a close, religiously observant family (the Madonna occupies pride of place above Anselmo's bed). The main burden of Anselmo's care falls on his wife Anna, but he also has a series of nurses who visit each day to check on his ventilator, change his feeding tube and monitor his heart rate and blood pressure.Anselmo's job in the carabinieri was to oversee anti-mafia operations in Calabria and before his body began to fail Loredana says he led an active life. It was in 2002 that the family first noticed a problem. The loss of motor control began in Anselmo's mouth and throat, then spread to his arms and legs. Doctors at the hospital in Bari were baffled and Loredana had to take her father to a specialist in Marseille for a full neurological workup. At first, Anselmo took the diagnosis of ALS badly."The idea that he might not be able to walk or talk again made him very depressed," said Loredana. "He told me he felt it might be better to die." With the support of his wife and children, however, Anselmo gradually came to terms with his condition.In the beginning, Anselmo wrote or typed messages but by 2004 he had lost the use of both hands and switched to an eye-tracking system that enabled him to pick out letters and phrases on a Plexiglas screen. Then, when in 2005 his lungs began to fail, he elected to have a tracheotomy. As the paralysis spread to his face and he began to lose the ability to open his eyelids, however, Loredana grew desperate. Without the use of the eye-tracking system, the only way of communicating with Anselmo was by holding his little finger – the only part of his body where he still had some movement. Then, in 2012, she heard about BrainControl. After trialling the service with her mother, Loredana became a convert and Anselmo has been using BrainControl ever since.Pasquale Fedele and Jarrod Fath developed the BrainControl software they say can help locked-in sufferers. Photograph: Kevin WarnockUnlike a clinical grade headset where electrodes are attached to the scalp by tape, the electrodes on the Epoc have to be primed with saline in order to ensure a good contact. Only once all the electrodes on the screen turn green can the BrainControl training begin. The idea is that when relaxing and not engaging in any motor movement, the Epoc can form a picture of a subject's resting mental state – the brain in neutral, as it were. Once this benchmark has been established, the next stage is to train the "push" action by asking the subject to imagine moving an object forward in his mind for more than three seconds. The resulting decreases and increases in electrical rhythms produce another set of readings known as event-related desynchronisation (ERD) and event-related synchronisation (ERS). Through repeating this process, BrainControl learns to distinguish the "push" thought from neutral and move the cursor from the "si" to "no" position. In practice, it doesn't matter what thought you use. As long as they are considerably different from another, BrainControl will detect the difference.To verify that BrainControl is detecting intentional thoughts and that the cursor is not simply responding to random outputs, Fedele puts subjects through a series of eight-second trials, during which they are asked to select the options on the tablet in sequence. The object is to hold the cursor on "si" for three seconds, followed by a five-second pause, followed by "no" for three seconds, followed by another five-second pause, and "non so" for three seconds. Only after five repetitions, during which each option has consistently been selected for more than three seconds, is the subject considered to be in control of the tablet and actively communicating with the trainer.Unfortunately, on the afternoon I visited it was impossible to tell whether Anselmo was moving the cursor intentionally or whether the illuminations were the result of random electrical rhythms (initially, Anselmo seemed to illuminate the "si", followed by "no" and "non so", but never for more than two seconds and on the third repetition the cursor got stuck on "no", suggesting Anselmo was either concentrating furiously or had fallen asleep). Loredana also struggled to find a comfortable position for Anselmo's head and it took much rearranging of his pillows to ensure the headset was secure and the electrodes were transmitting a continuous signal. I also noticed that throughout the experiment she was never far from her father's side, constantly stroking his hand and whispering words of encouragement. At times she even claimed to be able to read her father's thoughts from small movements of his mouth and eyes, calling into question the extent to which he was really "completely" locked in.Eventually, after consulting with Loredana, Fedele called a halt to the experiment, suggesting I return the following morning when Anselmo had had a chance to rest. But the following morning Loredana informed me that her father was feeling poorly and that it would not be possible to continue. "It is not always easy to get control of the cursor," she said. "You have to be patient and practise."I wanted to believe Loredana but when Fedele allowed me to experiment with the headset my concerns deepened. I began by trying to train the "push" thought. After several minutes' practice, I was able to get the cursor to illuminate the boxes more or less in sequence. However, holding "push" for more than two seconds was a struggle and I became aware that the harder I tried to control the cursor the more I furrowed my brow. Fedele assured me that my performance would improve with training but BrainControl does not come cheap: families can opt for a single payment of €7500 or elect to pay a service fee of €480 per month.On my return to London in April, I sent Fath and Fedele an email expressing my scepticism about what I had seen in Italy and asking them to respond to Birbaumer's criticisms. Fath replied by sending me a link to a training video showing another patient appearing to make five correct selections in sequence. In a separate email, Fedele told me they were now working with a new patient in southern California who, while not completely locked in, was making good progress with BrainControl.In response to the specific criticism that the Epoc was recording muscle artefacts, Fedele wrote: "Yes, EEG signal [sic] can capture facial movements and the headset can detect head rotation, but the BrainControl app uses one output only, and that is the EEG signals related to movement imaginations." He added that he and Fath were keen to collaborate with Birbaumer but "just haven't had time". Finally, he said BrainControl had signed an agreement to conduct controlled studies with several Italian hospitals.One cannot blame the families of locked-in patients for being willing to experiment but the history of medicine is riddled with devices and technologies that seemed to promise miracles only to be shown later to be worthless. That is why medical science, if it is to command confidence, must proceed cautiously and why scientists such as Birbaumer who have been studying assistive technologies all their life are so sceptical of the claims made by Emotiv and BrainControl. As Birbaumer told me: "I do not know of a single case where a completely locked-in patient has been able to communicate with EEG. A lot of the time you have no way of telling whether they are awake or asleep."However, the apostles of Big Data and wearable tech do not see themselves as scientists so much as innovators and entrepreneurs. The fact that these experiments are now taking place in the privacy of people's homes far from the scrutiny of university ethics committees is a good thing, they argue. Indeed, Le told me that in her view EEG research had been the preserve of "sterile medical clinics" for far too long.But the problem with this open-source, market-led approach is that it can take no responsibility for the impact – for better or worse – that these devices have on end users, or on the fervent hopes and desires of their families. Instead, it can reduce people like Anselmo to data points in a social and medical experiment – one that, at present, may rest as much on faith as science.* On 26 August 2014 this article was amended with the correct prices for the BrainControl service
A year 2000-related bug has caused the US military to send more than 14,000 letters of conscription to men who were all born in the 1800s and died decades ago.Shocked residents of Pennsylvania began receiving letters ordering their great grandparents to register for the US military draft by pain of “fine and imprisonment.”&quot;I said, &apos;Geez, what the hell is this about?’” Chuck Huey, 73, ofKingston, Pennsylvaniatold the Associated Presswhen he received a letter for his late grandfather Bert Huey, born in 1894 and a first world war veteran who died at the age of 100 in 1995.“It said he was subject to heavy fines and imprisonment if he didn&apos;t sign up for the draft board,” exclaimed Huey. &quot;We were just totally dumbfounded.”Y2K-like bugThe US Selective Service System, which sent the letters in error, automatically handles the drafting of US citizens and other US residents that are applicable for conscription. The cause of the error was narrowed down to a Y2K-like bug in the Pennsylvania department of transportation (PDT).A clerk at the PDT failed to select a century during the transfer of 400,000 records to the Selective Service, producing 1990s records for men born a century earlier.&quot;We made a mistake, a quite serious selection error,&quot; Jan McKnight from Pennsylvania digital services PennDOT.The Selective Service identified 27,218 records of men born in the 1800s made errantly applicable by the change of century and began sending out notices to them on 30 June.The federal agency began receiving calls from worried relatives on 3 July, explaining that the men were dead, but by that time it had already sent 14,250 notices in error.The youngest of the men would have been 117 this year. Families who received the notices can safely ignore them, said Pat Schuback from the Selective Service.“Selective Service regrets any inconvenience caused the families of these men and assures them that the error has been corrected and no action is required on their part,” the Selective Service said inan apology on its website.•Leap second hits Qantas air bookings, while Reddit and Mozilla stutter•Y2K - the bug that did not bite
All game designers are engineers because all games are about systems, I was once told by Jonathan Smith, the producer of the hugely successful Lego games. Whatever you&apos;re playing, whether it&apos;s an intricate hardcore fantasy adventure or a time-killing casual puzzler, the experience is based around a combination of mechanisms, rule sets and conventions that have common roots.You&apos;re never really beating the baddies or winning the world cup, you&apos;re only ever challenging the underlying system. However the clock face is decorated, underneath it&apos;s the same cogs and wheels making it all work.So is there a defining set of instructions that can improve your understanding and ability with all games? Well, perhaps – and here&apos;s an attempt to find it.Designers want you to exploreGame development studios employ huge teams of artists and designers to build vast interactive worlds – they don&apos;t want you to rush through them. When you&apos;re playing an action adventure or shooting game, unless there&apos;s a clock ticking down in the corner of the screen, take your time and thoroughly investigate the environment.Even if the proceeding cinematic sequence featured a desperate space marine telling you to get your sorry ass to the spaceship because it&apos;s about to take off, just relax. The game designeractuallywants your sorry ass to have a good look around – because they spent two years of their life building this place.Exploration will almost always yield hidden items, including extra health packs, more ammo, better weapons and a host of other goodies. If you&apos;re playing on a console, it will also often earn you achievement points and trophies, depending on whether you have an Xbox or a PlayStation. Achievement points and trophies are nice.Patterns are there to be brokenMost games are pattern systems – the challenge is in working out the patterns of the world and breaking them. Enemy soldiers will have patrol routes, and computer-controlled race drivers, fighters and athletes will have identifiable skills and quirks.When you enter a new level, race or event, spend time working out these systems and how to exploit them. Essentially, every confrontation in video games is like a round of rock, paper, scissors – you work out which of these that your opponent is using, and you employ the technique that beats it.And if a game boasts that its computer-controlled characters use &quot;advanced artificial intelligence&quot; it really means that they too are looking for patterns – so vary your tactics as much as possible. The best gamers are the ones that understand games on the systemic level. The virtual environment is a clockwork machine: work out what the cogs are doing, and they can easily be dismantled.Everything is telegraphedGame designers don&apos;t trust you ... They want to trust you, but they just can&apos;t. And they&apos;re terrified of you becoming frustrated. So all the time they are telling you what to do next, you just have to pick up on the signs.Useful objects in the environment, for example, will often have a sparkly outline, telling you to pick them up; level exits will be brightly lit; weak spots on end-of-level &quot;boss&quot; characters will flash; enemy guards will reveal hints and objectives in their conversation; and breaks in scenic patterns suggest secret doors or passages.The basic game design tenet is &quot;learn, test, master&quot;: a game will give you a new toy, it will let you use it in a couple of missions, then it will expect you to be really good at it when the end-of-level boss arrives. All of this will be communicated to you through a sort of environmental osmosis.You need to read your surroundings, scanning for signposts – and you must understand that every interactive object is there for a reason; every lever, switch, pulley and gate, every moveable crate and boulder, every working computer terminal. If you&apos;re stuck, look around and work out what the designer is trying to tell you, because at every point in every game they are trying to tell you something.Spatial awareness is more important than speedThe solution to video game problems are rarely ever, &quot;make a run for it&quot;. Sonic the Hedgehog is one of the only games in history that has effectively encouraged the gamer to give themselves up to the momentum of the landscape. You need to stay in control if you are to improve.In racing games, jamming the accelerator may appear to be the best way to catch up with the pack, but it isn&apos;t. It&apos;s better to drive carefully, following the racing line, slowing into corners and accelerating out after the apex – you&apos;ll catch up slower, but you&apos;ll catch up – and even if you don&apos;t, your driving abilities are improving.It&apos;s the same in shooting games: the &quot;run-and-gun&quot; approach will usually get you killed. Instead, make safe spaces by using cover and picking off enemies in order of the imminent threat they pose. In fact, video games are all about creating a series of safe spaces – the key to getting to where you want to go is knowing exactly where you are right now.Asset management is more important than raw skillMost video games will give you a set of abilities, items and weapons, and will place limits on how many you can carry at any one time. Understanding how to manage these assets is sometimes more valuable than actually being able to use them really well.The rule is, when a designer restricts your access to useful stuff it&apos;s usually to encourage either personalisation or adaptability – ie, they want you to design your inventory around your own strengths and weaknesses or around the challenge that&apos;s coming up.Modern games will very rarely make progress impossible if you drop the &quot;wrong&quot; items, so it&apos;s all about customisation. In shooters or action role-playing games, work out if you&apos;re better at engaging enemies close-by or at a distance, then concentrate your armoury on either machine guns/swords or sniper rifles/magic. Just make sure you always retain at least one health pack and one explosive weapon – a grenade or area-effect magical item: these will buy you time and space when you&apos;re up against it.In games where pre-planning is the inventory rule, work out from the mission objective what the requirements are likely to be. In a racing game for example, the next course may have lots of bends and no straights, in which case setting up your car with good brakes and acceleration is more important than a high top speed. If the game is telegraphing to you that a climatic battle is approaching, stock up on rocket launchers and smart bombs.But the key thing is, don&apos;t panic about dropping items – some poor swine in the quality control department has doubtless completed whatever game you&apos;re playing with just a pistol, dagger or a second-hand Skoda Fabia – so dropping the Sword of Grenshegagala won&apos;t mean unavoidable death. Unless you&apos;re playing Dark Souls, in which case all bets are off. You are on your own.Further studyCertain games are great for teaching the rules and conventions of design. If you want to get better at all games, play Tetris, Legend of Zelda, Street Fighter, Quake and Gran Turismo•The five most disruptive ideas in video game design•Flappy Bird is dead - but brilliant mechanics made it fly•Oscar – how one developer wants to change game design forever
Apple discussed forming screens from super-hard “sapphire glass” 18 months ago with experts in the field, making a sapphire-fronted iPhone 6 highly likely, the Guardian has established.A video that apparently shows a 4.7in sapphire screen being bent under a foot and resisting attack from a knife and keys &quot;could well be&quot; legitimate, according to ProfessorNeil Alfordof thedepartment of materials at Imperial College, London.“I think Apple have been quite cunning,” Alford told the Guardian. “What I think they’ve done is make a screen out of sapphire, which is incredibly scratch resistant, incredibly hard and has a highelastic modulus– meaning it’s very stiff.”Apple already uses sapphire crystal for its camera lenses and the cover of the iPhone 5S&apos;s Touch ID fingerprint sensor, but the super-hard material - the third hardest known - could make excellent screens that are much more scratch resistant than traditional glass and potentially even Corning’s Gorilla Glass, which covers the majority of smartphone and tablet screens.But it would be a demanding move. A 4.7in screen like that shown in the video has an area of about 9.5 square inches. Apple sells tens of millions of phones every quarter - so that just 10m 4.7in sapphire-screened phones would require 6 hectares, or 61,290 square metres, of the glass.&apos;Apple folk coming to speak to me about 18 months ago&apos;However Apple has a multi-year joint venture in the US with GT Advanced tobuild plants and furnaces able to produce sapphirein industrial quantities for a &quot;critical component&quot; that it said in trade documents would be shipped abroad for assembly. That could refer to the touch sensors - or to screens.Sapphire crystals are made from aluminium oxide powder, rather as standard glass is made from silicon dioxide. Once heated and cooled, it can be cut and formed into glass-like layers – known as sapphire glass. The optically transparent material has long been used for camera lenses as well as the screens of high-end watches because of its combination of scratch resistance and high transparency.“I remember the Apple folk coming to speak to me about 18 months ago to discuss sapphire screens,” remarked Alford. &quot;They’ve obviously been busy since then, working with a sapphire manufacturer.&quot;Alford explained that sapphire has been used in large quantities in electronic components for years.&apos;Not surprising&apos;“It’s not a surprising thing to do, but it’s quite a large area they’re producing and that’s really quite a challenge. I’m pretty impressed with that, actually,” said Alford.Alford was commenting on a video of a part claimed to be a sapphire screen for the expected iPhone 6 from a factory in China. The video shows Marques Brownlee stabbing the screen with a knife, bending it under a shoe and trying - and failing – to mark it with keys.Video purporting to show a sapphire iPhone 6 screen,Brownlee, who was sent the part by blogger Sonny Dickson, told the Guardian that he was sure the screen was “100% an Apple part”. Though he had his doubts at first - and wondered if the screen was just standard Gorilla Glass - after testing it, “I’m convinced the display is sapphire.”Alford concurs: “In my opinion the screen being shown off in the video could well be a sapphire screen. If you make sapphire thin enough, and it’s flaw free, you can bend it quite considerably because it has an enormous strength.”He added: “I think they will be doing some sort of a lamination – binding different crystal cuts of sapphire together – boosting the toughness of the material, while they may also have induced some sort of a strain in the surface of the glass – either compression or tension – which means that it has extra strength,” he said.&apos;Forced to use diamond slicers&apos;Sapphire has many advantages over glass, but has been prohibitively expensive to produce in large areas despite abundant raw materials. Creating artificial sapphire is not a problem in smaller areas for electronics and other uses, much in the same way artificial diamonds are used in manufacturing.Alford explained that compared to glass, sapphire would be harder, tougher making it more resistant to cracking or shattering, and optically clear.“The big issue is how you slice it and polish it because of the hardness of sapphire crystals,” said Alford. “It’s quite problematic; they’ll be forced to use diamond slicers to cut the sapphire for instance.”“If they can manage the costs, I don’t think there are any downsides to using sapphire at all. It’s a great idea,” quipped Alford.Apple and its sapphire manufacturing partner are likely to have patented manufacturing processes for creating the sapphire screens meaning that other manufactures like Corning, producer of Gorilla Glass, might not be able to replicate the sapphire screens.•Sapphire crystal – why Apple&apos;s interested in a precious gem
Amazon is in big trouble with the Federal Trade Commission.The US regulator has filed a lawsuitalleging that the company “has billed parents and other account holders for millions of dollars in unauthorized in-app charges incurred by children”.The lawsuit makes for interesting reading, quoting an unnamed Amazon Appstore employee as saying complaints about children’s in-app spending were at “near house on fire” levels within weeks of Amazon launching in-app purchases within its store in 2011.It cites specific games – Tap Zoo and Ice Age Village – and claims that Amazon has received “thousands of complaints” about the issue, while running an “unclear and confusing” process for parents to try to seek refunds.Bad Amazon? Well, the company is not alone.Apple settled a similar FTC complaint this year, promising to refund at least $32.5m to affected parents. If a report earlier this week is to be believed, Apple has been egging the FTC on to take action against Google over similar issues.These companies all made money – through the revenue share they take from in-app purchases made within apps distributed by their stores – from children spending money they shouldn’t have. Regulators like the FTC getting involved was inevitable.It’s good that parents will be getting refunds, and also good that the crackdown has already forced changes in the way these stores operate. That includes Amazon, which started requiring people to enter passwords for in-app purchases of more than $20 in March 2012, and for all purchases in early 2013.Responsibility doesn’t just lie with the app store owners though. We need to talk about parents.Why are so many parents letting their children play mobile games that sell in-app purchases in quantities of up to $99.99 at a time? And, just as importantly, why are so many still unwilling to pay for the children’s apps that don’t do this?I went to the Children’s Media Conference in Sheffield earlier this month, and found a hugely-encouraging number of companies making creative, educational and innovative apps for children, selling them as paid apps with single, upfront payments, and working hard to win parents’ trust with their policies on data collection, in-app website links and ads for even their own apps.I also found a hugely-discouraging number of themtalking gloomily about the difficulties they have breaking even on the app stores, because so many parents prefer to let their children play freemium games like Clash of Clans or Candy Crush Saga than pay for actual kids’ apps.Clash of Clans and Candy Crush Saga are fine, but they’re not children’s apps. Nor are Hay Day, Plants vs. Zombies 2, The Simpsons: Tapped Out, The Sims FreePlay, Angry Birds Go, or anything with “Saga” on the end.These aren’t children’s games, even if a lot of children are playing them. It’s good that Apple and Amazon are putting more measures in place to help parents guard against unauthorised spending – even if it was prompted by the threat of regulators getting involved – but there’s still a blunt question for parents:Why not buy some actual children’s apps?Developers and publishers like (deep breath)Toca Boca,Nosy Crow,StoryToys,Les Trois Elles,Disney,Duckie Deck,Tinybop,Sago Sago,Kidaptive,Night Zookeeper,Cowly Owl,Curious Hat,TribePlay, most of the big children’s book publishers and many, many more indie studios are making beautiful, creative and/or educational apps for children.Most of these companies charge upfront for their apps, rather than use in-app purchases. But IAP isn’t by definition a ripoff either: from Hopster with its Netflix-style subscription for child-friendly cartoons and educational games to Me Books with its parent-controlled store of digital picture books, there are responsible examples too.If more parents spend money on these companies’ apps, they’ll be able to sustain their businesses and make more, better apps for children. By getting our wallets out, parents can support a responsible industry of children’s app makers.Parents actually have a lot of power in this area. The best way to get a short-term spike in sales of a children’s app is to get it featured by an app store owner. But the biggest factor in the longer-term, steadier sales that help these developers stay in business is word-of-mouth: parents telling other parents about the apps that they love.Parents also have the power to put their wallets away and punish the makers of apps they feel are irresponsible. Playmobil hasn’t had a penny of my cash since releasing a game calledPlaymobil Pirateswhose in-app purchases went up to £69.99, for example.I’ll be happy to avoid the next Ice Age movie too – the FTC’s Amazon lawsuit notes that it sold virtual acorns to children for up to $99.99 at a time. Children’s brands rely on the trust of parents, and a grabby freemium app is a great way to erode that trust at a stroke.It’s a strange time for some companies who we think of as children’s brands. British company Mind Candy, the creator of Moshi Monsters, istrying to appeal to an older audience with freemium games like Moshling Rescue, whose IAP also goes up to £69.99.It’s a big risk: Mind Candy says it’s not promoting the game to children, but if some find it anyway, it’s a Daily Mail “Moshi Monsters rips off your kids” exposé waiting to be written.Angry Birds creator Rovio is coming the other way: it started as a regular mobile game with no particular age group in mind, but rapidly picked up a big audience of children.Rovio has since made plenty of money out of parents through toys and merchandise, but is now walking the same delicate line as Mind Candy with fully-freemium games (theoretically) for adults like Angry Birds Go and Angry Birds Epic.Those companies aren’t evil, but the jury is still out on whether they can balance large audiences of children on one side with whopping in-app purchases in games for adults on the other, without falling foul of parents.Even so, the main takeaway from the FTC’s Amazon lawsuit shouldn’t be that children’s apps are ripping children off. It’s that there are lots of actual children’s apps out there that deserve more support from parents.Many parents think hard about what kind of books to buy for their children; mull over the suitability of various TV shows and films; and compare the educational and entertainment value of different toys. We can put similar thought into the apps that children are using, including paying for them.•YouTube, apps and Minecraft: digital kids and children’s media
FACEBOOKBe more secureMake your password more secure by enabling "2-factor authentication", which basically means that you need your password plus a randomly generated code, usually texted to your mobile, to access your account. Go to the downward arrow on the top right of the screen -&gt; Settings -&gt; Security -&gt; 'Login Approvals'.Sign out of Facebook remotelyMany of you will know the perils of leaving your Facebook account signed in on another person's computer. Luckily you can sign out remotely. Facebook keeps track of all the places where you are signed in and by going to the downward arrow on the top right of the screen -&gt; Settings -&gt; Security -&gt; 'Where You're Logged In' you can sign out.Control what happens on your timelineThere's nothing more annoying than people posting embarrassing messages on your timeline or tagging you in incriminating pictures. Thankfully you can put an end to all of that. You can make sure that only you can post on your timeline, or that only you can see what people post on your timeline, and that you can pre-approve any tagged images before they appear on your profile. To do this, go to the downward arrow on the top right of the screen -&gt; Settings -&gt; Timeline and Tagging -&gt; 'Who can add things to my timeline?' and 'Who can see things on my timeline?'Control who can see you when you're onlineFacebook chat is great for live-messaging friends, but it's also a way for people you can't even remember friending to bombard you with inane gossip. You can selectively hide the fact that you're online, so that your friends know you're around without alerting other people. Click the chat box on the bottom right of the screen, then 'More Friends', then the cog -&gt; Advanced Settings -&gt; 'Turn on chat for all friends except'.Turn off read receipts in chatFacebook chat's read receipts, which is when it tells people who message you that you've seen their message, can be a source of frustration and awkwardness. But you can read Facebook messages stealthily with AdBlock, which is a browser extension designed to block web adverts. Luckily it can be tweaked to also block your friends from seeing when you've read their messages. Google 'AdBlock Plus', install the extension in your Chrome or Firefox browser, then click the extension -&gt; Options -&gt; Customize -&gt; 'Manually Edit Your Filters'&nbsp;and then paste "facebook.com/ajax/mercury/change_read_status.php$xmlhttprequest" on one line. Hit save and you're done –&nbsp;you can read Facebook messages without worrying about read receipts.Hide your activityEverything and anything you do on Facebook, and apps that you have connected to Facebook, is recorded in your 'Activity Log'. Depending on your privacy settings, these actions will be publicly visible, visible to your friends, or only to yourself. You alter the visibility of individual actions by going to the downward arrow on the top right of the screen -&gt; Activity Log and then clicking on the pen icons beside each action.Cover your tracksFacebook has been around for just over 10 years now and depending on how long you have been using it, you may have a wealth of information you don't even remember posting. If you're worried about what might crop up, you can limit your old posts to just friends so that they're no longer publicly searchable. To do this, go to the downward arrow on the top right of the screen -&gt; Settings -&gt; Privacy -&gt; 'Limit Past Posts Limit the audience for posts you've shared with friends of friends or Public?'Clean up your FacebookYou may want to go further than just making sure your Facebook is hidden from the public. Employers have been known to demand access to potential employees' Facebook accounts –&nbsp;an outrageous practice. Socially Clean is a simple text analysis service that identifies posts that may in hindsight appear indiscreet; you can delete them with a single click. Go to sociallyclean.com.Don't share with all your friendsYou have a surprising amount of control over who can and can't see your posts. Aside from the general divide between sharing publicly and just with friends, you can select which specific people you do and don't want to view your post. When you're typing a post, click 'Friends' (or 'Public' depending on your default setting) -&gt; More Options -&gt; "Custom".Check your appsMany websites or services use Facebook as a quick and easy way of creating accounts. The downside to this is you soon end up with a long list of companies that have access to some of your Facebook data. Keep an eye on this by going to the downward arrow on the top right of the screen -&gt; Settings -&gt; Apps. You can then remove access to your Facebook for those websites you no longer use.Other messagesLuckily Facebook's filters have become more intelligent, and the 'Other' box is less of a problem now than it once was, but it is still worth keeping in mind. The 'Other' box is where messages end up if Facebook decides they aren't really relevant to you. 99.9% it's spot-on –&nbsp;you don't really want event updates spamming your inbox, but it's worth dropping in every now and again to check something important hasn't ended up in there. Click the messages icon on the top left -&gt; Other.Tidy up your News FeedUnfriending people isn't always feasible –&nbsp;perhaps you don't want to offend a family member, for example. Instead you can simply hide their posts from your News Feed. Click the downward arrow in the top right-hand corner of a post and select 'Unfollow', so their updates no longer appear. Alternatively, if you never want to miss someone's posts, you can choose to get notifications when they post by clicking 'Get Notifications'.Download all of your Facebook dataWhat would happen if Facebook disappeared one day? All of those photos, messages and posts you've shared would be gone. This may be something of an apocalyptic scenario, but you may want to backup your Facebook information offline. You can download your personal archive by going to the downward arrow on the top right of the screen -&gt; Settings -&gt; Download a copy&nbsp;of your Facebook data. If you want to also download photos other people have uploaded and tagged you in, as well as all of their other photos too, try picknzip.com.Mute conversationsGroup chats on Facebook can quickly become tiresome, with new messages constantly pinging notifications your way. If you don't want to leave the conversation, you can mute it instead by clicking the cog in the message box -&gt; Mute Conversation.LINKEDINCustomise your URLInstead of simply telling people to look you up on LinkedIn, you can direct them to a customised URL that looks more like a personalised website. Go to Profile -&gt; Edit Profile and then edit the web address below your picture.Be stealthyLinkedIn notifies your contacts when you make changes to your details, which is great when you have a new job, but less helpful when you're tidying up your past experiences or adding new contacts Hover over your profile picture in the top right hand corner, click 'Review' privacy &amp; settings –&nbsp;at which point you'll be ask to type in your password –&nbsp;and then 'Turn on/off your activity broadcasts'. You can also find this option when editing your profile. On the right hand side of the screen select 'Notify your network' -&gt; No, do not publish changes.Be anonymousWhen you view another person's profile, they are informed that you have seen their profile. Premium users have more detail, but even free users may be notified that you have viewed their profile. To stop this happening, hover again over your profile picture in the top right hand corner, click 'Review' privacy &amp; settings –&nbsp;at which point you'll be ask to type in your password –&nbsp;and then 'Select what others see when you've viewed their profile'. You can then choose to be 'totally anonymous'. The downside to this is then you don't receive information when people view your profile, although you can still receive limited information on the mobile app. Alternatively, sign out of LinkedIn to view people's LinkedIn profiles –&nbsp;often they have the same information publicly viewable to non-LinkedIn users.Add your calendarIf you're in a rush and want to get a quick update on the people you're meeting for lunch, sync your calendar with LinkedIn via its app. Simply click the icon in the top left of the phone screen, then the cog -&gt; Add Calendar.Get your priorities rightAlthough LinkedIn has a default ordering for your professional information, there's no need to stick to its formula. When you edit your profile, black up and down arrows should appear on the middle right of the screen next to each section. If you want 'Honors and Awards' to appear first, drag that section to the top.TWITTERInclude photosWhenever possible, always add a photo to your tweet. The engagement rate for text only tweets against tweets with images attached is somewhere between 2x to 5x. If nothing else, it saves your followers having to click through to another site to see a photo, which is especially useful on mobile.MuteA recent Twitter function, the ability to mute people means you can avoid the awkward politics of unfollowing people. If you are fed up with someone's garbage clogging up your timeline, simply go to their profile page, click the cog on the right hand side and select Mute.Turn off retweetsA Twitter user may produce great original content, but have terrible taste in other peoples tweets. If you want to only see their tweets and not the tweets they have retweeted, go to their profile page, click the cog and select 'Turn off retweets'.Reply to your own tweetsMany thoughts are difficult to condense into 140 characters. But that doesn't matter if you think of Twitter as a stream. Divide your content into several segments and tweet each in order as a direct reply to the previous tweet. Twitter will thread them together so they appear as a continuous thread. Note, you don't need to @-reply yourself, Twitter will know the tweets are connected automatically.EtiquetteManual retweets, which is where you tweet another person's tweet with 'RT' at the beginning, are generally frowned upon unless you're adding commentary. If you leave the content of their tweet unchanged, use 'RT'. If you modify or remove some of it, use 'MT', which stands for modified tweet. Finally, if you tweet a link, for example, because you saw someone else tweet it first, use 'h/t', which stands for 'hat tip'.Download your archiveIt's basically impossible to trawl back through months and months of tweets. But if you want a full archive of everything you've ever tweeted, all you have to do is ask. Click the cog on the top right of the screen -&gt; Request your archive.Schedule tweets for the futureThere are a number of third-party applications that let you schedule tweets so you don't need to be at your desk or on your phone to send a tweet. The most popular applications are Buffer or Tweetdeck. Buffer is primarily used for tweeting links –&nbsp;simply install the Buffer browser extension and then click on it when you're reading an article you want to schedule to be shared on Twitter. Tweetdeck is a tool for high-powered tweeters that also offers functions like constructing multiple timelines in separate columns.GOOGLE+Become an authorIf you run a blog, are a journalist or regularly post content online under your name, becoming an author on Google Plus will make your name appear beside your content in Google search results. Previously your photo would also appear, but Google recently removed that feature. Detailed instructions can be found at plus.google.com/authorship but the short version is visit your Google Plus profile page, click About -&gt; Edit Links -&gt; 'Contributor To' and then link your author or about page on the particular website.Use bold and italicsUnlike other social networks, Google Plus has the ability to add text formatting into posts, giving your posts the feel of blog posts rather than social media updates. To bold, simple put '*' around text and for italics use '_' around text.Use a GIF as a profile pictureOnce upon a time you could have an animated GIF as your profile picture on Twitter –&nbsp;the lucky folk who uploaded their GIF profile pictures before Twitter banned them in 2012 are relics of that bygone era. But on Google Plus, unlike other social media platforms, you can still use an animated GIF of, for example, two fighting cats as your profile pic if your heart so desires.
Hundreds of naked selfies and intimate pictures of both men and women were found on a batch Android smartphones that their owners thought they had wiped, a research study has found.After studying 20 handsets, security company Avast haswarnedthat the &quot;factory reset&quot; function on Android phones doesn&apos;t actually delete data on the phone, which can be retrieved using standard forensic security tools.In all, the researches said that they found more than 40,000 photos, including 750 photos of women &quot;in various stages of undress&quot; and 250 photos of male anatomy. The EXIF data included in the picture file could also allow someone to find out details of the person&apos;s residence if it included location. Four of the phones included the previous owners&apos; identity in the file data.The problem arises because the factory reset function, found in the Settings function, doesn&apos;t actually wipe the data from the storage on the phone. Instead, it wipes the index that points to the locations in the storage where the data is written. Normally, that is sufficient to prevent someone who acquires the phone from accessing any of that data.But by using forensic tools that directly access the storage areas, Avast was able to reconstruct the files - and make its disconcerting discovery.Googletold Ars Technicathat the research &quot;looks to be based on older devices and versions [of Android] and does not reflect the security protections in Android versions that are used by 85% of users.&quot; That suggests that only versions running software before Android 4.0 are vulnerable in this way.However, Google&apos;s Android documentation shows that setting file encryption isoptional- which leaves newer devices vulnerable too.Android 3.0 onwards has offered a setting which will encrypt the phone, using a cryptographic key generated from a user-provided passcode. If that is done, then a &quot;factory reset&quot; will delete the key, rendering the data unreadable. Google&apos;s spokesperson recommended that people who are disposing of a device should enable encryption, and then carry out a factory reset.Apple&apos;s iPhones and iPads encrypt their data using the AES 256 algorithm, with a software key that is generated using information from the user. When the owner chooses to &quot;erase all content and settings&quot; to wipe an iPhone or iPad, the cryptographic key is deleted - meaning that although the data remains on the phone, it is encrypted beyond any capability to decode it.For older devices dating back to 2008, such as the original iPhone and iPhone 3G, or first two versions of the iPod Touch, erasing the device writes a series of 1s over the existing data partition.•Flying soon? How to extend your Android phone or iPhone&apos;s battery life
The chief executive of NBN Co, Bill Morrow, is the second-highest paid federal public servant in Australia, revealing he earns a potential salary of “just below $3m” a year, including bonus.Morrow, who has just passed 100 days at the helm of the troubled corporation building the national broadband network, revealed his yearly earnings for the first time on Friday at a Senate committee hearing in Canberra.The former Vodafone Australia chief executive earns a fixed salary of $2.3m with a 30% “at-risk” component to be paid at the NBN Co board’s discretion.The former communications minister Stephen Conroy said that, with the discretionary 30% included, this was “almost a third more” than the total salary of the previous NBN Co chief, Mike Quigley, who had refused to take a bonus. Quigley quit the company last July.However, Morrow was reluctant to reveal the salary of another senior executive, the new head of transformation at NBN Co, Bradley Whitcomb.Whitcomb has worked with Morrow in previous roles at the US-based Pacific Gas &amp; Electric and at Vodafone in Japan, and the two are close friends.But Morrow said disclosing Whitcomb’s salary would “harm the company in terms of its ability to hire staff going forward in the future”.It prompted a testy exchange, Conroy saying the non-answer “doesn’t fly, it fails the smell test … there’s no reason whatsoever for it not to be revealed, other than if you’ve got something to hide.”“When it comes to hiring your mates, there’s going to be a serious interest in what you pay your mates on the taxpayers’ dime,” Conroy said.Morrow rejected the “taking care of mates implication”, saying salaries were set at market rates by a remuneration committee.The NBN Co chairman, Ziggy Switkowski, told a Senate hearing last November, before Morrow’s appointment, that the corporation’s new CEO would earn a salary “in the ballpark” of Quigley’s pay.In May,Morrow was namedalong with 21 other PG&amp;E executives in a lawsuit alleging the company was &quot;grossly under-spending on operational and process safety&quot; in the years before two Californian pipeline explosions that killed nine people.He has denied the accusations,telling a Senate committee in June: &quot;I believe that when the legal process runs its course, it will confirm that my fellow directors, officers and I acted with care, in good faith and in the best interests of PG&amp;E at all times.&quot;The chief executive of Australia Post, Ahmed Fahour, is the highest-paid public servant in the country, earning $4.8m annually, including bonuses.The communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, has been contacted for comment.
Google has acknowledged that it "incorrectly" removed links to several Guardian articles last month and then reinstated them after complaints from people citing the "right to be forgotten".Following a European court ruling, Google is required to remove links to "inadequate, irrelevent or … excessive" information from its search results in EU countries if the person to which the web page relates places a complaint, subject to a public interest test. But in a comment piece in the Guardian, Google's chief legal officer, David Drummond, acknowledged that the company, which opposes the ruling, was still working out the right way to implement the judgment, and had made some errors.The Guardian was one of the first outlets to be notified that some of its content had been removed from some EU search results, receiving six notification that articles had been affected. Four of those articles were subsequently reinstated into search results by Google.If complainants wish to challenge reinstatements they must do so through their country's information commissioner's office.Drummond said Google disagreed with the ruling, but said the company respected "the court's authority" and was "doing its very best to comply quickly and responsibly".He promised the public debate would affect how the company made its decisions on removing or reinstating content for the 250,000 requests it had received from more than 70,000 people."Of course, only two months in, our process is still very much a work in progress," he wrote. "It's why we incorrectly removed links to an article last week (since been reinstated). But the good news is that the ongoing, active, debate that's happening will inform the development of our principles, policies and practices, in particular about how to balance one person's right to privacy with another's right to know."Drummond also announced that Google had set up an advisory council of experts to examine the "right to be forgotten" issue. Jimmy Wales, Wikipedia founder and internet campaigner, will sit on the panel, as will Le Monde's editorial director, Sylvie Kauffmann, and the UN special rapporteur Frank La &nbsp;Rue.The advisory council would take evidence from appropriate bodies and interest groups, as well as hold public meetings, Drummond said. It would produce a public report on some of the more difficult points concerning the "right to be forgotten", including issues about spent criminal convictions and victims of abuse, as well as the wider societal implications of the court's ruling.
Hollywood director Lexi Alexander has criticised the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) and its war on piracy claiming that kids hacking film security is more entertaining than most Hollywood movies.Alexander said she thinks piracy is necessary because of country content restrictions, and that while the wealth piracy begets for the pirates isn’t right, the freedom of access to content is.“For every IP block, DRM and who-knows-what security feature Hollywood spends thousands of dollars and hundreds of hours on, some piracy kid will undo it for free and within a couple of minutes,”says Alexander on her blog.“And this is my favourite part: I am 100% certain that the hacking of entertainment industry&apos;s security features provides better entertainment for these kids than the entertainment we&apos;re trying to prevent them from stealing. Let that sink in for a second, then try not to bust up laughing,” she said.Region-locking content forces piracyAlexander explains that as a German living in the US it’s difficult to get German news, and while in Germany it’s difficult to get US shows - so she resorts to piracy, and says many people in the film and TV industries rely on it to get content.“Like many people in the film and TV industry, sometimes I find myself in pirate waters,” said Alexander. “As an expat household, with three paid Amazon Prime memberships for three different countries, a paid Netflix membership, a paid ACORN membership, a ridiculously high DISH [pay TV] bill and an Apple TV box, we still can&apos;t watch most programs from back home, even though we&apos;re willing to pay good money for it.”“I&apos;ll go on the website of a German public TV channel in hopes of catching up on some (objective) news and up pops the message: ‘Sorry, the copyright for this program does not extend to the country of your current location’,” Alexander explains. “Of course when I&apos;m over there, trying to catch up with a US show sets off even more alarms.”Hollywood piracy loss statistics &apos;are bullshit&apos;Alexander also hits out at Hollywood’s insistence that piracy is causing massive losses within the industry.“You know what statistics are bullshit? The ones stated by the MPAA about lossesdue to piracy,” she said emphatically. “Piracy has NOT been proven to hurt box-office numbers - on the contrary, several studies say it may have boosted the bottom line.”Large sums are spent combating piracy, according to Alexander: “Money spent by Hollywood to fight piracy: Hundreds of Millions of dollars. (It&apos;s almost impossible to find out the exact numbers, but given they spent $91m lobbying for Sopa [Stop Online Piracy Act] in one year alone, we can all assume what the total comes out to.)”Alexander concludes that she isn’t endorsing piracy, because she sees people like Kimdotcom lining his own pockets rather than being Robin Hoods. But she says that she is willing to “at least reach out to the other side” and demands that Pirate Bay founder Peter Sunde is freed from prison in Sweden.Sunde was confined for his role in “assisting in making copyright content available” through the Pirate Bayby a Stockholm district court in 2009after two years on the run.•Half of all British children believe online content should be free•Walking Dead producer criticises Game of Thrones executive over piracy
Game designers love to hide things in their virtual worlds. An in-joke, a weird object, a strange play mode – whatever it is, they&apos;re usually all discovered within weeks of release. But YouTube gamerLord Zeddhas just found a secret feature in Halo 3 seven years after the launch of the classic sci-fi shooter.It turns out that if you load the game up on Christmas day (or change your Xbox 360 clock to make your machinethinkit&apos;s Christmas day), then press both Xbox thumbsticks down, the loading screen shows a new view of the eponymous Halo space ring, complete with a scrolling message reading, &quot;Happy Birthday Lauren&quot;. The text,it seems, was included by one member of the development team, Adrian Perez, who directed it to his wife and never expected it to be found.Bungie, the studio behind the Halo titles, had hinted to fans on at least two occasions that a final hidden treat – or &quot;easter egg&quot; in gaming parlance – remained stashed away in the game after many others were found. Now finally, the seasonal treat is available to all – and 170,000 have already watched the video.Implanting hidden features, items and messages in games has been around since the very beginning of the industry. Warren Robinett, designer of 1979 title Adventureclaims the term was coined by an executive at Atariwhere the practice was actively encouraged. Memorable examples have includedIndiana Jones&apos;s remainsshowing up in Fallout: New Vegas and the bit in Metal Gear Solid 3 where a characterdies of old ageif you leave the game running for a week.Although impressively well hidden, the Halo 3 example falls far short of gaming&apos;s most elusive easter egg. That honor surely goes to programmer Landon Dyer who hid his own initials so deeply within his home computer conversion of arcade hit Donkey Kong that it took another programmer26 yearsto find them.More on gamingThe five things you need to know to be better at video gamesFrom Titanfall to Mario Kart: the best games of 2014, so far
The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) occupies a cherished place in the bosom of Canadians that shares much with the relationship of Britons with the BBC. And, like the BBC, the CBC is in a permanent funding crisis, as successive waves of cuts take the public broadcaster into previously unthinkable territory. Where once the CBC&apos;s newscasters put on a brave face about doing more with less, now it&apos;s becoming clear that the CBC&apos;s governmental paymasters expect it to do a lot less with less.It doesn&apos;t help that Canada&apos;s ruling tar-sand Tories and their leader, PM Stephen Harper, never met a public expenditure that they liked, and that their appointee for the top CBC role, Hubert Lacroix, seems to find nothing alarming about the never-ending waves of cuts to his network.The latest round of cuts are grave and possibly deadly. The CBC will no longer produce documentaries, it will cut local newscasts, close half its offices, and make 25% of its workforce redundant by 2020. Between 1,000-1,500 jobs will be cut in the next five years alone.Top CBC management have stated that the network will move to a &quot;digital first&quot; strategy in order to remain relevant to Canadians&apos; lives. While there&apos;s nothing wrong with a digital public broadcaster, there&apos;s also no shortage of digital companies looking to serve Canadians&apos; needs over the internet.Beloved and forgotten materialIf the CBC is to survive the transition, it could do worse to look to the BBC&apos;s own now-shelved plans for the &quot;Creative Archive,&quot; announced during the runup to the last Charter Renewal, only to disappear with Greg Dyke after the Hutton Inquiry.The BBC had planned to clear the online rights to the vast quantities of material in its vaults, and change its commissioning so that any new material would also be pre-cleared. This material – a rich, publicly funded archive of the nation&apos;s collective cultural memory – would have been put online under a generous, creative commons-style licence for Britons to download, share, remix and re-contextualise decades&apos; worth of material both beloved and forgotten. Other UK cultural institutions – libraries, museums, and galleries – had planned to join this creative archive, putting even more of the nation&apos;s heritage and treasures into the hands of the people who paid for them and to whom they belonged.The Creative Archive project couldn&apos;t succeed at the Beeb. There was too much anxiety about coming cuts to the broadcaster and the need to make up the shortfall by figuring out how to sell BBC programming to Americans, too much tension between the BBC and the &quot;super indies&quot; it commissions from to insist that new programming be pre-cleared for creative re-use by the nation, too much terror about being wrongfooted by the red-tops, a deep existential terror that Rupert Murdoch would find some obscure remix and run a headline reading &quot;BBC provides raw material for neo-Nazi hate video.&quot;But as the 2016 BBC Charter renewal process heaves into sight, it&apos;s clear that the BBC&apos;s commercial arm has not even come close to making up the revenue that the BBC would lose under the more radical proposals for &quot;top-slicing&quot; the license fee or cutting it altogether (Britain&apos;s Tories also never met a public institution they didn&apos;t want to privatise or cut altogether).The CBC, at least, has only limited delusions about the importance of commercialising its archives, especially when that comes at the expense of access to the archives for Canadians. Canada is a young nation, and the CBC has been there with Canadians for about half of the country&apos;s short life. The contents of the CBC&apos;s archives are even more central to the identity of Canadians that the BBC&apos;s is to Britons.Digital first in the nation&apos;s heritageIf the CBC is to be cut and remade as a digital-first public service entity, then a Canadian Creative Archive could be one way for it to salvage some joy from its misery. There&apos;s nothing more &quot;digital first&quot; than ensuring that the most common online activities – copying, sharing, and remixing – are built into the nation&apos;s digital heritage.What&apos;s more, the CBC&apos;s situation is by no means unique. In an era of austerity, massive wealth inequality, industrial-scale tax-evasion and totalising market orthodoxy, there&apos;s hardly a public broadcaster anywhere in the world that isn&apos;t facing brutal cuts that go to the bone and beyond.All of these broadcasters have something in common: they produced their massive archives at public expense, for the public&apos;s benefit, and have made only limited progress in giving the public online access to those treasures.A Canadian Creative Archive wouldn&apos;t just make the CBC relevant to Canadians in a fashion that is only possible from a public-sector entity, it could also offer reciprocal archive access to broadcasters all over the world. Canada, a bilingual nation, has a wealth of Anglosphere and Francophone public broadcasting peers around the world whose programming would be of great interest to Canadians who speak the nation&apos;s two official languages. And as Canada is an incredibly diverse nation with large populations of native speakers of European, Asian, African and Arab languages, it could likewise benefit from reciprocal arrangements with allophone nations&apos; public broadcasters.A global network of public digital archives would benefit immensely from economies of scale, developing and maintaining tools to digitise, catalogue, search, and present material. Furthermore, it would build the case worldwide for public broadcasting – a public broadcast archive being the cost of entry for admission to the club of sharing nations.It would afford Canada the opportunity to exercise some soft power around the world, sharing its cultural history with people hungry to learn English and French. It would grant Canadians access to millions of hours&apos; worth of programs produced for other countries&apos; publics. And it would, perhaps, begin to turn the tide for public broadcasting in the 21st century, helping it to realise its potential as an ocean of freely shareable and remixable material in an era of copyright wars that pit citizens&apos; creative, cultural impulses against the commercial entertainment sector.
Yelp has become the latest company to publicly join a complaint to European regulators over the way Google chooses to promote its own services alongside those of rivals.In an official complaint to the European Commissionlast month, the reviews site has urged it to block a proposed settlement with Google that would require the search giant to include links to three rivals whenever promoting its own specialised search services, such as shopping or local search.In Yelp&apos;s initial complaint to EC president Manuel Barroso in May, CEO Jeremy Stoppelmann wrote: &quot;I truly fear the landscape for innovation in Europe is infertile, and this is a direct result of the abuses Google has undertaken with its dominant position.&quot;Stoppelman is concerned that Google ranks its own Google+ Local service more highly than Yelp&apos;s in search results for reviews of restaurants and services, even when Yelp&apos;s freely accessible web site has more reviews.Research published in May by the stockbrokers Piper Jaffray, looking at a sample of 500 locations in the US, found that there were more reviews on Yelp and that the number of reviews grew faster than the number on Google+, and were on average five times longer - with a quarter of the &quot;reviews&quot; on Google containing no text and only a rating. &quot;Yelp in comparison forces reviews to provide some text along with their rating,&quot; thePiper Jaffray reportsaid.The reviews site has joined a number of smaller companies, and the software giant Microsoft, in objecting to the deal being proposed between Google and the competition commissioner Joaquin Almunia, who has been trying to formalise a settlement for nearly a year in the face of objections from companies which say that Google is abusing its dominant position in search in Europe, where it gets more than 90% of searches.&quot;Local search&quot; for location-based information is the largest category of the roughly 3.5bn searches carried out each day. They constitute about a third of searches on desktop, and nearly half on mobile. Sources familiar with Yelp&apos;s complaint say it fears being forced out of the market by Google despite claiming to offer a better service.While Yelp has much smaller revenues than Google, at around $233m annually against $60bn for the search giant, it has specialised in providing reviews for locations. It is a supplier to Apple&apos;s Maps service, among others. Stoppelman testified in 2011 to the US Senate about his concerns over Google&apos;s search dominance.The Guardian understands that Stoppelman has also spoken to Almunia to express concerns about the proposed deal, which would bind Google for five years to give certain concessions to rivals, but remove the risk of a fine that could amount to 10% of its global annual revenue.Writing to Barroso, Stoppelman said he was filing the complaint with Almunia because &quot;in order to truly advocate on behalf of European digital startups, our voice needed to be granted some form of official standing.&quot; He said that the potential for the economic opportunity from the internet &quot;cannot be realised unless every possible step is taken to prevent abuse by dominant firms&quot;.Under the proposed settlement, rivals would be given almost equal prominence as Google&apos;s own paid-for links when users searched for restaurants, hotels, or shopped for items such as cameras. But it has drawn criticism from those rivals because they would have to bid to appear in the spaces - leading them to complain that they would have to hand over a proportion of their revenue to Google even if their service might be better than Google&apos;s.Google contends that it is under no obligation to provide business rivals with free space to advertise their services on its search pages.Yelp is seeking to join complainants including as the shopping service Ciao, German company Hotmaps, and the UK shopping search company Foundem, have complained that Google favours its own services and downgrades their in search results.Microsoft has complainedthat Google makes it difficult for advertisers to move campaigns from Google to its Bing search service.Almuniasaid on Thursdaythat he had spoken with Yelp on &quot;several occasions&quot; but that its complaint had arrived too late to be considered along with the others, but that &quot;in general terms we know very well what their concerns are&quot;.Google had no comment on Yelp&apos;s move.Almunia has been investigating the complaints for more than four years, but has indicated that he wants to settle the case by the time his term ends in October. Yelp indicated that it might try to appeal any settlement. &quot;I will try to convince them not to appeal,&quot; Almunia said at a weekly press conference.He said that he would be sending out &quot;pre-rejection&quot; letters to 20 complainants in the case. That is a statutory move ahead of the intention to sign the consent with Google, though it is considered likely that some of the complainants will mount a court challenge if Almunia does sign an agreement.•Restaurant owner sues Google over Maps listing &apos;sabotage&apos;
This podcast is a repeat of our edition from 17 April 2014.The anonymousonline picture-based forum 4chan.org(warning: some content may offend) was set up in 2003 by the-then 15-year-oldChris Poole.Since its inception as an anime and manga discussion forum, 4chan has become a key player in online anonymity. In the first of two conversations dedicated to online identity and anonymity, Aleks Krotoski meets with Chris to discuss at length his perspective on this issue and explore why he has been dubbed the "anti-Zuckerberg".
The Galaxy Tab S is Samsung’s no-holds-barred attempt to beat Apple and its dominant iPad. With an incredible screen, slim build and snappy processor Korea might finally have something Apple should worry about.The stakes are high: my understanding is that if this doesn’t sell well against the iPad (which Samsung&apos;s other premium Android tablets haven’t), then the south Korean company is going to stop trying to compete at the top end.Next year tablets are expected to overtake PCs,according to research firm Gartner, so the time is right for Samsung to attempt to claim a major share of the high-end tablet market.Thin, light and feeling goodThe Tab S looks like any other Samsung tablet, budget or premium. It has a screen, a small bezel, a plastic edge and a plastic back – Samsung hasn’t been known for its mould-breaking design and nothing has changed here.What has changed is how the tablet feels. It is still plastic but the edge has a metal-infused colouring, which is like a halfway house between metal and plastic – it is smooth and cold like metal, while feeling softer to the touch, like plastic.Samsung's Tab S comes in two colours 'dazzling white' and 'titanium bronze' or what most people would call brown with dark gold edging Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe back is a dimpled soft-touch plastic like the Galaxy S5 smartphone’s back, and feels nice to touch while providing a sure grip.The Tab S is also very thin, at 6.6mm thick – thinner than the 7.5mm thick iPad Air, though thicker than Sony’s super-skinny 6.35mm thick Xperia Z2 Tablet. The Tab S is also lighter than the iPad Air, with the 10.5in version weighing 465g (iPad Air 469g) and the 8.4in version weighing 294g (7.9in iPad mini with Retina 331g). Both still feel sturdy and solidly built, with minimal flex or give in the body.There are stereo speakers along the sides towards the top, so hands won&apos;t block them when it&apos;s held in landscape orientation. They are decent enough, but lack any sort of bass and can be a bit quiet at times.The tablet&apos;s back sports Samsung’s “Simple Clickers”, which are Samsung&apos;s attempts to mirror the simplicity of fitting cases and other accessories for Apple’s iPad (where its &quot;Smart Cover&quot; attaches with magnets) without infringing on Apple&apos;s patents – or using magnets.Two small round trap-door like 'Simple Clickers' are on the back of the tablet for attaching cases and other accessories. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Clickers are like little spring-loaded trap doors, which you barely notice if not being used, and accept little snap-in buttons. They hold cases in place very securely, but are a little fiddly to get snapped in.A new standard in screen qualityThe Tab S is the first affordable tablet to sport a high-resolution large-size organic LED (OLED). That means that unlike LED tablets such as the iPad, it doesn&apos;t need a backlight, and so can be thinner.The pixels in OLED emit their own light when there&apos;s a voltage, and when &quot;off&quot; (black) don&apos;t draw any power.The Tab S’s screen is the best I’ve ever seen on a tablet. The blacks are inky, the whites are paper white, the colours vibrant and more true to life than most LCDs. The screen is bright enough to read even in direct sunlight.Magazines and comics look particularly good, while photos and videos are full of contrast and colour.Comics, magazines, books, photos and videos all look particularly good on the Tab S's stunning AMOLED screen. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianBoth the 10.5in and 8.4in models have 2,560 x 1,600 pixels, offering 287 pixels per inch (ppi) and 360 ppi respectively; the iPad Air is 264 ppi and iPad mini with Retina is 326 ppi. However, you would be hard-pressed to see the difference in pixel density in person.Specifications• Screen:8.4in or 10.5in WQXGA (2,560 x 1,600) Super AMOLED• Processor:Samsung Exynos 5 Octa (1.9 GHz quad-core + 1.3GHz quadcore)• RAM:3GB of RAM• Storage:16GB (microSD slot also available)• Operating system:Android 4.4 “KitKat”• Camera:8MP rear camera, 2.1MP front-facing camera• Connectivity:Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4.0 with BLE and GPS (LTE optional)• Dimensions:125.6 x 212.8 x 6.6mm / 247.3 x 177.3 x 6.6mm• Weight:294g/465gStamina to last all dayThe Tab S uses Samsung’s own Exynos 5 Octa processor. Technically it has eight processing cores, but only uses four at any one time. It has four “big” processing cores for doing heavy lifting, with four more “little” lower-power processor cores for &quot;lighter&quot; jobs. The aim: to extend battery life.It feels snappy, for the most part (more on that later), and handles anything you can throw at within apps, sailing untroubled through the most graphically rich games.I found both Tab S models lasted a good day (about 15 hours) on a single charge under constant usage (constant push email, a few hours&apos; browsing, perhaps an hour of video) without activating any of the power-saving modes. Even with a power-hungry application like theAssassin’s Creed 4 second-screen appconnected to a PS4 the 10.5in tablet lasted a good eight hours.Samsung's Ultra power saving mode switches the display to greyscale and limits the apps you can use, but extends the standby time of the tablet by dozens of days. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThere are also two power-saving modes. One limits performance to add a couple of hours&apos; battery life; the other is the “Ultra power saving mode”, which switches the screen to greyscale (saving power through the OLED screen), turns off Wi-Fi and restricts the number of apps that can be used to nine, including Facebook, Twitter, Google+, the calculator, calendar, browser and clock – it should give the tablet around 16 days of standby time from just 20% of battery.A micro-SD card slot allows storage expansion from the 16GB of built-in space (around 9GB available to the user). An IR blaster on the top can control a TV or other compatible home entertainment equipment.Modified Android with a few small missesSoftware is traditionally where Samsung struggles but the Tab S has the best Samsung software I’ve seen to date. It’s still not great in places. The interface is colourful, if a bit childlike, while its Magazine app which sits at the most left homescreen panel cannot be removed.Magazine UI doubles and Flipboard and a Windows 8-style tile interface for the calendar and email apps.The biggest issue is that Samsung’s software is not very well optimised. Small moments of lag crop up here and there when switching between screens or invoking the keyboard. That absolutely shouldn’t happen, because the underlying hardware is powerful, and apps zip along. With a bit more work Samsung could have smoothed out those bumps, but they won’t bother most people.Some of Samsung’s software features can be useful, like Multi-window which (as on Microsoft&apos;s Surface) can run two apps side-by-side; others like S Voice can be safely ignored or replaced by apps like Google Now for better functionality.Samsung bundles a collection of app “gifts” with the Tab S, with three months of Marvel Unlimited and one year of Business Week subscriptions being notable.Side-Sync allows mirroring of a Galaxy S5 smartphone on the Tab S including call and messages. Photograph: SamsungSide-Sync lets Galaxy S5 owners (and from July Note 3 and S4 owners) mirror their phone, including taking calls and answering text messages, on the Tab S. You need to run the app, and it will take you through the steps. Hard to see when it would be useful, but it&apos;s there.The ecosystem problemThe biggest issue with the Tab S is completely outside Samsung&apos;s control: the app selection for Android tablets. While app availability for Android smartphones has caught up with Apple’s iPhone, there’s a dire lack of good Android apps optimised for full-sized tablets.Most are simply blown-up phone apps, which do not take full advantage of the extra screen size. The 8.4in model suffers a different problem: some apps present a tablet-optimised view that is obviously designed for a larger screen, and so is fiddly to use. Others display a phone-style interface, which looks stretched.CamerasThe Tab S has one of the better cameras found on a tablet, which would be fine for a few shots, but won't replace a decent smartphone camera or dedicated point-and-shoot camera. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe back camera is 8 megapixels, the front (for video chats) 2.1 MP. The rear camera is decent enough for a tablet, with quick autofocus and solid colour reproduction, but the low light performance is poor, producing grainy photos.Fingerprint scannerAs with the Galaxy S5 phone, the home button doubles as a fingerprint scanner for unlocking the device, and authenticating purchases through PayPal.The fingerprint scanner under the home button works fine if you ignore the instructions when first scanning your finger or thumb and scan it in the way you would normally when you unlock the device. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianIt is slightly less useful than on the Galaxy S5 because you pick up a tablet in more orientations than a smartphone, and it’ll only register three fingers per user (like the S5).Premium pricingSamsung’s Tab S competes directly with Apple’s iPad and is priced accordingly. The Tab S 8.4in Wi-Fi-only version costs £319 and the 10.5in version £399, exactly matching Apple’s pricing. Tab S models with 3G/4G mobile broadband will be available later and cost more.Verdict: Samsung&apos;s finally cracked itThe Tab S is Samsung’s best tablet yet by miles. Samsung has definitely given the iPad Air and Mini a solid run for their money: these are arguably the best Android tablets to date, with the best screen ever on a tablet. So it will come down to whether you want to use iOS or Android, and whether the &quot;app gap&quot; on tablets matters to you. With Android, though, you&apos;ll have more choice of manufacturer.Samsung’s Tab S is likely to cost less than its £399/£319 asking price as shops discount it, while the iPad will stick at £399, so that may play a role in the future.Pros:stunning screen, thin, light, long battery life, powerful processor, fingerprint scannerCons:Samsung software can be annoying, lack of quality Android tablet appsOther reviews•Sony Xperia Z2 Tablet review: a super-thin, waterproof Android tablet•Apple iPad Air review: lighter, thinner – but it&apos;s all about software•Samsung Galaxy S5 review: bigger, faster – but still plastic•Samsung Galaxy Note 3: is it a tablet or a phone?
The UK’s National Crime Agency has led a global campaign to knock out the Shylock malware, which infected at least 30,000 Windows PCs across the world and stole funds from victims’ online banking accounts.Command and control servers for Shylock, so named as its code contained quotes from Shakespeare’s Merchant of Venice, were located and seized by international law enforcement bodies, including the FBI, the German Federal Police and Europol.UK intelligence agency GCHQ was also involved in investigating the cybercriminal operation.The website domains used to control the malware were also shut down, as global cyber police gathered over 9 and 10 July in the operational centre at the European Cybercrime Centre (EC3) at Europol in The Hague.“This phase of activity is intended to have a significant effect on the Shylock infrastructure and demonstrates how we are using partnerships across sectors and across national boundaries to cut cybercrime impacting the UK,” said Andy Archibald, deputy director of the NCA’s National Cyber Crime Unit.“We continue to urge everybody to ensure their operating systems and security software are up to date.”Most victims of Shylock were based in the UK, with upwards of 10,00 infections, an NCA spokesperson told the Guardian. Users in US, Italy and Turkey have also been hit by the malware, which was first discovered in the second half of 2011.The criminals running the operation spread the malware by spreading links that led to downloads of the malware, either via spam email or in Skype instant messaging.Once on a system, it would detect when a user was visiting a banking website, create fake login sections of that site and then pilfer banking logins. This information would be sent to the criminals, who would siphon off money from the accounts.Shylock could also take screenshots or record videos of specific web pages, and upload stolen information and data about the infected computer and installed software.It was ranked as one of the top banking malware types of 2013 by Dell SecureWorks, which assisted the police operation, alongside anti-virus provider Kaspersky.Users who have automated updating for their Windows machines switched on need not do anything, as this will fix any problems for those infected with Shylock, the NCA said. Anyone concerned about the malware can head toMicrosoft’s support pageto learn more about disinfection.The spokesperson said the NCA expects to see “a significant number of infected machines to be cleaned of Shylock following the operating system auto update”.•Security failures risking privacy warns information commissioner
Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg has suggested that cheaper mobile data, rather than just cheaper smartphones, will be the key to spreading internet access in the developing world.In anop-ed piece for the Wall Street Journalto promote Facebook’s Internet.org initiative, Zuckerberg suggested that with around 2.7bn people already connected to the internet, its growth cannot be taken for granted.“Not only do the vast majority of people have no access to the Internet, but even more surprisingly, Internet adoption is growing by less than 9% each year,” he wrote. “That&apos;s very slow considering how early we are in its development and that this rate is only slowing further.”Facebook launched Internet.org in August 2013, working with mobile operators and infrastructure companies including Samsung, Nokia, Opera, Qualcomm and Ericsson to make internet access more affordable in the developing world.“A common belief is that as more people buy smartphones, they will have data access. But that isn&apos;t a given. In most countries, the cost of a data plan is much more expensive than the price of the smartphone itself,” wrote Zuckerberg in his WSJ piece.He cited the example of an iPhone with a two-year data plan in the US, where the device might cost $500-$600, but the data plan will cost $1,500, and called for “more efficient” ways of building internet infrastructure elsewhere in the world.That might seem like a plug for Facebook’s own efforts within its Connectivity Lab to –as Zuckerberg put it in a status update in March– “build drones, satellites and lasers to deliver the internet to everyone”.However, the new article’s emphasis is more on Zuckerberg’s desire for operators to make their existing mobile networks more accessible.“In fact, almost 90% of the world&apos;s population already lives within range of an existing cellular network. For everyone in those areas, we don&apos;t need to build completely new kinds of infrastructure to help them connect. We just need to show why it&apos;s valuable and make it affordable,” he wrote.“The challenge for our industry will be to develop models for Internet access that make data more affordable while enabling mobile operators to continue growing and investing in a sustainable way.”Critics will inevitably point to the way Internet.org serves Facebook’s own corporate aims of continuing its global expansion, especially if its growth starts to plateau in the developed world.So when Zuckerberg suggests that “in the future, everyone should have access to basic Internet services as well, even if they haven&apos;t paid for a data plan” those basic services include the messaging and social networking features provided by Facebook – and ultimately the advertising opportunities that come with them.“Nothing about this future is guaranteed. The coming years will be a battle to expand and defend the free and open Internet,” he wrote. “Our success will determine how far this vision of a connected world can go.”•Why the future of Facebook is all about your smartphone
It's Thursday. Is it sunny where you are?
Secure communications firm Silent Circle is taking on Skype and mobile operators alike by adding private, encrypted international calls without roaming charges to its Silent Phone service.Its new Out-Circle Calling international call plans start at $12.95 (£7.55) for 100 minutes, rising to $39.95 for 1000 minutes. Silent Phone users will be able to call one another for free.The new plans cover landlines and mobiles in 79 countries, which Silent Circle claims is four to five times more than “non-secure competitors” in the voice-over-IP (VoIP) world like Skype and Viber.The company is targeting businesses with the new plans, claiming to be ale to save their employees tens of thousands of dollars a month on international roaming charges.However, they will still have to pay for a data plan with a traditional mobile operator if they want to use Silent Phone over 3G or 4G networks, rather than just over Wi-Fi – so the promise of no roaming charges only goes so far.Silent Circle CEO Mike Janke told the Guardian the Global Encrypted Calling Plans would bring “beautiful disruption” to the industry.“A customer can get a basic cheap data plan from any telco and use our encrypted calling plan for all 2G, 3G, 4G and Wi-Fi calling. Our price point, combined with a basic data plan is about 20-45% cheaper than telcos currently offer long distance,” he said.“Most European businessmen and women pay huge roaming fees when they travel around Europe and other parts of the world. Sometimes up to $1,400 per month. If you are a businessman in the UK with service from say, O2 mobile, just to call 100 minutes to Taiwan you will pay $17.”Janke also said that “many a telecom’s CEO has contacted me to find out how and why we are doing this”, while claiming that Silent Phone has already saved one Swiss-based Fortune 500 company $44,000 per quarter in roaming charges.Analysts are not wholly convinced. Gartner’s Charlotte Patrick said Silent Circle’&apos;s main issue will be in educating consumers on the benefits of private communications over other services, such as smaller firms like Lebara Mobile who offer international calls at pennies per minute.“They will be up against these low-cost providers who have very sophisticated ways of marketing to immigrant communities,” said Patrick.“For other types of users, Skype is mostly OK for calling home from a business trip or while on holiday. So I would imagine that much of the disintermediation of traditional operator voice calling has already happened,” she added.“Also, in certain regions like the EU, roaming charges have come right down due to regulation, so it is only calls to very remote places where calling is still very costly.”•Silent Circle: &apos;You may wish to avoid email altogether...&apos;
With two new consoles on the shelves and Steam continuing to boost the PC development scene, 2014 has been an interesting year for games so far. But has it been a really good one?Here are our top ten releases of the year so far, selected by our readers via Twitter (with some input from our games writers). Just for the heck of it, we&apos;re not allowing new downloads for older titles or updates, remasters or conversions of games that have already been released elsewhere. So that&apos;s why you won&apos;t find Towerfall: Ascension (which is brilliant) or Last of Us: Left Behind (which is astonishing). Also, Stuart Dredge has compiled a separate list of smartphone titles, hence no Monument Valley, Threes or Hearthstone.If you are disgusted that Banner Saga, Sniper Elite 3 or another of your own favourite titles is missing, let us know in the comments...10. Titanfall&quot;For the sheer insanity of what&apos;s going on in almost every match. Turn the sound up and sit too close.&quot;Rich Jarman&apos;Titanfall is a bombastic treat, a hulking armoured paeon to Japanese mech anime like Gundam and Macross in the form of an incendiary first-person shooter.&apos; – Read the Guardian&apos;s review9. OlliOlli&quot;Super smooth skating game in the vain of Tony Hawk Pro Skater. Completely boils the game down to its purest form.&quot;Chris Aka Punk&apos;For anyone who has travelled with a deck beneath their feet, this is a fascinating interpretation of the experience.&apos; – read the Guardian&apos;s review8. Metal Gear Solid: Ground Zeroes&quot;Extremely stunning to watch and a nice little teaser to the next MGS instalment&quot;April Showers&apos;Ground Zeroes is more than anything a showcase for imagination, experimentation, and play for play&apos;s sake, because there is simply so much to do in and around this environment.&apos; – read the Guardian&apos;s review7. Valiant Hearts&quot;Emotional portrayal of WWI. Beautifully presented. Made me want to learn more about the Great War.&quot;Retroed6. Shovel Knight&quot;Someone finally made a 80s retro throwback that plays fair, plays well and that I&apos;ll play time and time again.&quot;IfItIsn&apos;tColdman5. Dark Souls 2&quot;Mario Kart is utterly brilliant, but Dark Souls 2 just edges it for me. Another masterpiece in the Souls series.&quot;John C&apos;Dark Souls II is an extraordinary game. If it stops short of fulfilling something precious within the soul, it certainly has the heart, mind and fingers covered.&apos; – read the Guardian&apos;s review4. Transistor&quot;It&apos;s literally one of the most inventive, unique and engaging Action RPGs I&apos;ve ever played.&quot;Paddy Murphy&quot;The combat and function system is unparalleled.&quot;Craig Smith3. South Park: The Stick of Truth&quot;Best use of a licence ever, faithful to the show and (mostly) perfect in execution.&quot;Wayne Emanuel&apos;By far the best thing about The Stick of Truth is its script and willingness to go places that other games don&apos;t.&apos; – read the Guardian&apos;s review2. Wolfenstein: The New Order&quot;I expected it to deliver quality shooting. I didn&apos;t expect it to deliver quality storytelling.&quot;Andi Hamilton&quot;Excellent, polished single-player and great-looking on next-gen.&quot;Matt CA Smith&apos;It isn’t the future of first-person shooters, but it does rank among the best single-player examples.&apos; – read the Guardian&apos;s review1. Mario Kart 8&quot;One of the few games where the creativity on display continued to surprise me in every level. I am now less jaded.&quot;Sanatana Mishra&quot;The most fun I&apos;ve had with four-player local multiplayer in a long time.&quot;Lukas Roper&apos;Every aspect of Mario Kart 8 is polished to the finest shine&apos; – read the Guardian&apos;s review•40 best iPhone and iPad games of 2014 (so far)•40 best Android games of 2014 (so far)
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamResearchers tests personal data market to find out how much your personal information is worth &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewIn total, the team ran 596 auctions over 60 days and paid out a total of €262 in the form of Amazon vouchers to 29 participants. The median bid across all the data categories was €2. They also paid out €100 to one of the participants with the highest response rate who they chose using a raffle.The results clearly show that some information is more highly valued than others. "We have found that location is the most valued category of personally identifiable information," say Staiano and co. And participants tended to value processed information more highly as well because of their perception that it gave a greater insight into their lifestyle.But interestingly personal information becomes even more highly valued in certain circumstances. For example, the study covered two unusual days. The first was a holiday in Italy known as the Immaculate Conception holiday. The second was a day of particularly high winds which caused multiple roadblocks and accidents."The median bids for all categories in these two days were significantly higher than for the rest of the days in the study," say Staiano and co. In other words, participants value their information more highly on days that are unusual compared to typical days.€2 per day is over €700 annually. You canread the Arxiv paper. (Note: this originally said the researchers were at Google; they didn't begin work there until after the study. The error was in the original Technology Review story.)Unbundling mobile apps for the emerging markets &gt;&gt; LightspeedI think unbundling is a strategy that has not yet been applied with vigor in the emerging markets on smartphones. I think there are potentially disproportionate advantages to be had by unbundling in countries like India, in the short- to medium-term. Why is this? Because low device memory limits (typically less than 16 Gb), low bandwidth limits (mostly 2G) and relatively high bandwidth prices result in dramatic drops in conversion rates, download success rates and retention rates as app size increases. Also, in my opinion, discovery on the app stores is easier when there is a single focused value prop (kind of the approach that Whatsapp has taken with a singular focus on messaging).The graph of downloads against file size is persuasive.Tablet PC quarterly shipments fall for the first time, according to NPD DisplaySearch &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch"Tablet PC demand in 2014 is being affected by falling demand for the 7" class in emerging regions and in China, where many local white-box brands have experienced lower-than-expected shipment growth," said Hisakazu Torii, vice president, smart application research at NPD DisplaySearch. "Most major brands have recently reduced their business plans for 2014. There is a risk that the replacement cycle for tablet PCs will lengthen beyond the one to two year range unless brands can develop more attractive usage scenarios."Forecasts declining notebook sales.The truth behind Apple's suppliers in China (Part 1) &gt;&gt; SonnyDicksonIn Hua Qiang North Market, the heart of asia's electronics market, there is a building called YuanWang Digital Mall.There are dozens of iPhone 5 &amp; 6, iPads, and Macs such as Mac Mini's and Macbook's. These units vary from real, and fake units. All the real units and all their accessories are  being showcased and traded throughout that mall, and later sold and distributed around the whole world. Almost all the goods there are smuggled goods from HK, due to 17% tax at China customs, so smuggling to avoid high tax is very very profitable.On May 27th, Shen Zhen Customs (Shenzhen anti-smuggling governing body), and Hua Qiang street authorities, stormed the YuanWang Mall to try to catch some of those smugglers and whoever was said to sell Apple/Samsung/Nokia/etc units, or fake Apple/Samsung/Nokia units. More than 120 government officials are involved in this operation.Apple may have had a role in this raid, since Apple have the ability to track all serials &amp; activations between HK and China.There are 3 major smugglers and sellers who own 10 warehouses, 38 shops inside the mall, and around the area have been caught. During these operations more than 2 thousand people witnessed the whole raid, making it such a scene in the area.A Statistical Comparison of the iOS and Android Stores &gt;&gt; ShinobiControls WebsiteColin Eberhardt:A few months ago I published a blog post which showed the results ofanalysing the meta-data of 75,000 apps from the iTunes App Store. This analysis revealed some interesting results; 75% of apps are free, 60% have no ratings and the Entertainment category has the worst user ratings. This blog post continues the analysis by adding 60,000 Android apps into the mix.For those of you that like their information presented in tweet-sized portions, here are some quick results• The iOS store has 3.5x more business apps than the Android store, and 2x more Education apps.• Both stores have roughly the same number of free apps, at 75%• The most expensive category in the Android store is Medicine at $21 avg, which is double the most expensive iOS category, Business, with an average price of $12.• The average user rating of Android apps is slightly lower than iOS apps• The Apple store has 3x more apps with zero user ratings.Would have been nice - with the Android apps (as it's not available for the iOS store) - would have been an analysis of the number of downloads. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)German court orders Motorola to stop selling top phones &gt;&gt; Cult of AndroidA German court has ordered Motorola to stop selling selected smartphones in Germany to do a dispute over the design of their antennas. The company's flagship Moto X, Moto G, and other devices infringe a patent for "Laser Direct Structuring" that is owned by German engineering firm LPKF."On July 8, 2014, the Mannheim Regional Court ordered Motorola Deutschland and Motorola Mobility USA to refrain from selling cell phones in Germany that infringe the patent and ordered Motorola Deutschland to recall all cell phones that infringe the patent from commercial customers," LPKF said in a statement today.Recall the phones from customers? That's going to be fun. (Via @arebee on Twitter.)Help Joy help you. On the unusability of internal systems. – disambiguityLeisa Reicheit:At the airport earlier today I had to switch my ticket from one flight to another. Joy was the customer service person who helped me do this.Joy's notebook is about two inches thick, she's created an A-Z index for it, it is packed full of handwritten notes about how to do different tasks in the various system she uses – steps that need following, codes that need inputting. It sits beside her every day, beautifully decorated (with stickers) evidence of the horrendous usability of the software she uses to get her job done.Joy has been working for this airline for years. She told me that some of the stuff that is in her notebook she doesn't need anymore – either because they've upgraded to a new system or that, after years, she's finally managed to memorise it.She told me that each time they upgrade the system it seems to get harder, not easier, to use. Joy told me that all the customer service reps have a notebook like this. You can't use the systems without one. Joy is digitally literate and confident with the computer, but it is impossible to use without the notebook.Joy is frontline staff for a major international airline.Trouble it, it's never Year Zero at an airline, so there's never a chance to start over afresh.Stop the JerkTech &gt;&gt; TechCrunchJosh Constine:"Go disr*pt yourself" is what I have to say to founders of startups like ReservationHop and Parking Monkey.They're emblematic of a compassionless new wave of self-serving startups that exploit small businesses and public infrastructure to make a buck and aid the wealthy. Let's call these parasites #JerkTech. It's one thing to outcompete a big, stagnant company with new technology. It's another to screw over the little guys just because you can sell what's usually free.So what do these tools do? ReservationHop places phony reservations at the hottest San Francisco restaurants, and then sells them for $5 or $10 apiece on its site. That makes it harder for the common man to get a reservation, since if they call the restaurant directly, they'll find all the spots taken.And if ReservationHop doesn't sell the spots it stole? Tough luck for the restaurant, which just had a table go empty or wasted a half hour because the fake Dick Jerkson that ReservationHop put as the name on the res never showed up.How Microsoft stops your Windows Phone getting certain features &gt;&gt; Neowinbeyond the annoying limitations of carriers and the realities of software development, there is a further mechanism that can - and in some cases, does - restrict the availability of certain Windows Phone features in particular markets. Documentation seen by Neowin, shown to us by a source at one of Microsoft's hardware partners, describes how OEMs must comply with "Embargos" set by Microsoft, which may prohibit or restrict distribution or announcement of certain features within the Windows Phone OS.For example, on WindowsPhone.com, Microsoft says that Wi-Fi Sense - a feature that allows users to automatically connect to wireless networks, and share Wi-Fi details with trusted contacts - "is not available in the following countries/regions: Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand."Not explained: why (beyond services that might just not be ready in some countries, eg Cortana/speech) Microsoft would do this.The spread of second-hand smartphones in Thailand/SE Asia &gt;&gt; Inside The Noodle BowlJon Russell went travelling and has some notes:In no particular order:• Lots more people using iPhones (and to a lesser extent Samsung smartphones). What struck me most is that folks you wouldn't expect to have them – such as migrant workers in Bangkok, who catch the bus to back up-country on their breaks – have older devices, like the iPhone 4 or 3GS. All the usual apps, Line, Instagram, Facebook, etc are on-board (from what I've seen) thanks to the fact that iOS supports older devices like no other platform. Unlikely that money is being spent, but very likely that users are highly-engaged and active (most have probably spent most of their time online in an Internet cafe).• Lots of folks with two phones. A feature phone for calling, and an older smartphone for games, apps and other computer-like activities. This is their version of an affordable tablet/computer, I guess, and feeds back to the above.• A great many smartphone users still evidently on pre-pay deals, as they toggle 3G data settings on/off. Also watched a number of people toggle location on/off, presumably to check-in on Facebook or Foursquare, while taking into account older devices have older batteries which drain quicker.• Most tablet usage appeared (at least from what I saw) to be among middle-class and upwards. Spotted more Galaxy Tabs than iPads, but not sure that is a country-wide trend.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
