Mobile network EE is taking on GoPro and Periscope with a new action camera capable of streaming up to 10 minutes of live video over 4G without a smartphone or computer.Inspired by the popular GoPro wearable cameras, EE says its device is the world’s first 4G action camera. It will allow users to stream live footage to family, friends and colleagues.The action cam is controlled via a screen strapped to the user’s wrist, which allows the wearer to stop and start the film and see what is being captured by the camera.“We decided to develop it ourselves because there was no 4G camera product,” said EE chief executive, Olaf Swantee. “We predict that we will sell as many connected devices as smartphones in 2017.”The camera’s live function works only with a streaming app developed by EE called skeegle. Unlike alternatives Periscope and Meerkat, skeegle is exclusively a private network where viewers have to be invited to watch, rather than a public broadcast system.Live streams can be viewed through EE’s smartphone app.Photograph: EESwantee said: “When we started work on this Periscope and Meerkat didn’t exist. I though people would like to share their lives but they didn’t necessarily want to do that in public.”The 4G camera technology could also be adapted for use by professionals, such as police armed response teams beaming footage back from the streets to the control centre, or by bus companies recording accidents and crimes aboard their vehicles.EE’s camera can also record video – it has 64GB of internal memory – and it has a hard wearing case which is waterproof at up to 60 meters. The camera can take still photographs with a 13 megapixel resolution.Skeegle has three main functions: broadcast for live streaming, replay for a personal programme guide containing all the user’s skeegle videos, and circles, to create and manage contact groups.Once a circle of friends is created using the mobile contacts list, the camera owner can immediately stream live to them by pressing a “broadcast” icon. Each skeegle stream can last up to 10 minutes.The camera goes on sale on 16 June via EE stores as well as through Dixons Carphone, Amazon, Selfridges and Jessops outlets. It costs from £100 with an EE contract, and from £300 with a pre-paid subscription to the network.•What do Periscope and Meerkat mean for broadcasting copyright?
Fears that artificial intelligence will wipe out human beings are completely overblown, according to the co-founder of Britain’s DeepMind, who has insisted that the technology will help tackle some of the world’s biggest problems including accessing clean water, financial inequality and stock market risks.Mustafa Suleyman, who with Demis Hassabis and Shane Legg set up the London-based machine learning company that wasbought by Google in January 2014 for £400m, mounted a spirited defence of the company’s successes. He told a conference on machine learning that “artificial intelligence, AI, has arrived. This isn’t just some brief summer for this technology, and it’s not about to go away again. These are production breakthroughs.”High-profile figures includingElon Musk,Stephen HawkingandBill Gateshave all warned that the rise of AI poses a threat to humanity – a threat that has been echoed in recent Hollywood films such asEx Machina,The TerminatorandTranscendence. Yet Suleyman insisted that AI is, and will remain, a tool that humans can control and direct, rather than a threat.The best use for AI would be to help decisions about how to tackle some of the world’s biggest problems such as lack of access to clean water, inequality of access to food and finance, and stock market risks, he suggested.DeepMind’s systems use neural networks and “deep learning” methods that deploy low-level transistor networks to produce high-level effects so that they can, for instance, distinguish a cat’s face from a human one – a trivial task for a human, but hard for a machine. That has been developed into “artificial general intelligence” (AGI) that can learn to solve tasks without prior programming, and have already been used to replace 60 hand-crafted systems across Google. The AGI system’s deployment into speech recognition, now used in Android phones and Google Translate, had led to the biggest overall improvement in speech recognition in 20 years, Suleyman said, with a 30% reduction in transcription error rates. Yet training the program for the task took less than five days.Speaking to a conference on machine intelligence in London on Friday, Suleyman said that he was dismayed by the negative attitudes being shown towards AI. “It’s sad how quickly we’ve adopted to the reality and don’t acknowledge the magic and the good that these systems can bring. The narrative has gone straight from ‘isn’t it terrible that AI has been such a flop’ to ‘isn’t it terrible that AI has been such a success’.”He said that the technology was going to be “a hugely powerful tool that we control and direct within its limits – like any tool that we have ever built … Artificial generalised intelligence is a form of intellectual horsepower – a cheap and abundant resource to solve our toughest global problems.”Suleyman observed: “We have global information overload from overwhelming systems complexity – they’re so complex and interlinked it’s possible that the US financial crash in 2008-9 caused the Egyptian revolution [which was sparked when bread prices rose in line with wheat prices].“But everything we have built is a product of intelligent human activity. AGI is a tool to massively amplify our ability to control the world.”DeepMind, based by Kings Cross station in London, has developed a “generalised artificial intelligence” which was able to figure out how to succeed at nearly 50 Atari computer games without any foreknowledge of how to play them. Given inputs of just the score and the pixels on the screen, and control of the games buttons – again without any knowledge of their relevance – it was able to play as well as a human after a few hundred games. In Breakout, it played competently after 300 games – then figured out after 200 more games that the best strategy was to knock out the side bricks and let the ball bounce behind the wall: “that surprised us,” said Suleyman.The company’s systems are now used on the Google+ photo categorisation systems, and apparently onGoogle’s new Photos service, to categorise and label pictures by their contents. The company is also seeking to expand that categorisation so that when there are multiple recognisable objects in a picture it can describe them all in a single coherent sentence.But Suleyman said the idea that a machine-based artificial intelligence could take over decision and pose a threat to humans was “preposterous”.“Any talk of a superintelligent machine vacuuming up all the knowledge in the world and then going about making its own decisions are absurd. There are engineers in this room who know how difficult it is to get any input into these systems,” Suleyman said to applause from the audience of machine intelligence specialists.“If we fear that we won’t control them, then we should slow down their use and implementation, just like with nuclear weapons and genetic engineering” [which saw a moratorium in the 1970s].Suleyman said he wants to make public the names of the people who sit on the company’s ethics board, which was set up at the insistence of himself and Hassabis when Google bought it. “We will [publicise the names], but that isn’t the be-all and end-all. It’s one component of the whole apparatus,” he said.Asked what gave Google the right to choose the ethics board members without any public oversight, Suleyman replied: “That’s just what I said to Larry [Page, Google’s chief executive]. We will make more public.”He said it had been a bold move for the 100-strong company to suggest to the much bigger buyer that there should be an ethics board at all. “Being able to put something like this on the table is a first step to being more open and helping to steward this,” he said. The company is seeking to recruit more people to its ethics board, as well as to its policy and legal teams.
Just 27% of those employed in Britain’s digital industries are women, according to a new report from the UK Commission for Employment and Skills (UKCES), a public body which aims to advise the government and others on those issues. The proportion is down from an already low figure of 33% in 2002, and well below the UK average of 47% for female employees.The research highlights the continuing failure of the sector to train and retain female employees, particularly given the fact that Britain is expected to need 1.2 million new digital workers by 2022. More than 800,000 of those new workers will be needed to replace workers leaving the sector, while the rest will be needed to support expected growth.Even so, if current trends continue, UKCES’s model suggests that by 2022, the proportion of workers in the digital sector who are women will have barely risen, to just 30%.But despite the fall in the figures, Aoife Ni Luanaigh, one of the report’s co-authors and a senior research manager at UKCES says it’s not clear why so few women are involved in the digital sector.“For the report, we spoke to a lot of employers, we analysed a lot of data, and it’s not really clear why the proportion of women has been dropping in the digital sector,” she said. “In part, it’s a reflection of the gender balance of people going on to do related courses at University or at further education colleges, and boys are more likely than girls to be involved in technology clubs in school.”The drop in numbers has occurred, Ni Luanaigh says, despite “a number of quite good initiatives that are already happening, to encourage more girls at school to take up coding, or to get involved with computer clubs and so on. And some of those are referenced in the report as well.”According to Ed Vaizey, the digital economy minister, “the UK’s digital and creative industries are among our biggest success stories, but for them to continue to flourish we must make sure the next generation of talent is being taught, trained and nurtured.”He praised TechFuture Girls, a nationwide network of after-school computer clubs, and other schemes like it, and said that they “will play an important role in addressing this issue.”Ni Luanaigh agrees, saying that “it’s something that needs to be started quite young. It could be as simple as more tech clubs, more computer clubs, focused on girls at the age of eight to 10. But to me, it doesn’t seem like there is a simple answer: it’s not like this hasn’t been tried before. There will have to be a number of different projects working hand in hand.”The failure to bring women and girls into the digital sector is also hurting employers, according to the UKCES. More than two-fifths of employers in the digital sector reported that they had lost business as a result of not being able to fill posts.The UKCES report comes a week afterGoogle revealed internal statisticsshowing that only 30% of its staff were female, and 61% of its US staff were white.A recent report by Gartnerbacked up the UKCES findings, showing that the number of female chief technology officers across the industry has remained static at 14% for the past 10 years.On Monday, before its Worldwide Developer Conference in San Francisco, the Apple chief executive, Tim Cook,promised a change to the typically male-dominated event.
Apple isn’t just gunning for Spotify with itsnew Apple Music streaming service. It’s gunning for radio broadcasters.Its combination of live radio station Beats 1 and a range of non-live stations programmed by DJs aims to seduce listeners away from traditional radio, and then sell some of them a $9.99-a-month streaming subscription.When the Guardian sits down with Apple’s Jimmy Iovine and Eddy Cue a couple of hours after they unveil the new service during the company’s WWDC keynote, that competition with radio –also Spotify’s current strategy– is the first topic of conversation.“What I saw in the record industry is it’s just getting more restricted, more restricted, more restricted to where everyone’s trying to figure out what kind of song to make to get on the radio, that’s researched and where advertisers are telling you what to play,” says Iovine.Related:This is a radio clash: can Radio 1 survive the Apple attack?“What’s happened to the music industry, from my perspective, is a lot of great music is behind the wall that can’t get through, and therefore a lot of artists are getting discouraged. And we hope that this ecosystem really helps revive that.”Not just algorithms – programming with a human touchIovine and Cue take pains to praise Zane Lowe,the Radio 1 DJ they poached to head up Beats 1(“The most adventurous guy we could find: somebody who had the guts to play new music,” according to Iovine) and chief creative officer / Nine Inch Nail Trent Reznor (“An amazing musician, but he’s an amazing product guy too,” says Cue).Part of the pitch for Apple Music is that it sees humans, not just algorithms, as its trump card for helping listeners discover new music.“Algorithms are really great, of course, but they need a bit of a human touch in them, helping form the right sequence. Some algorithms wouldn’t know that Rock Steady could follow Start Me Up, y’know. That’s hard to do,” says Iovine.“You have to humanise it a bit, because it’s a real art to telling you what song comes next. Algorithms can’t do it alone. They’re very handy, and you can’t do something of this scale without ‘em, but you need a strong human element.”“Understanding that i have a lot of Latin music in my library doesn’t give me a great Cuban playlist,” adds Cue.‘A win for everybody’The human element may also come from Apple Connect, the bit of Apple Music that’s part-SoundCloud, part-Facebook and part-YouTube, with artists posting songs, videos, photos and status updates for the fans who follow them to see.Rapper Drake rhapsodised about Connect on-stage at WWDC but Apple will now be pitching his peers to support it. That pitch will focus on control, it seems.Related:Spotify has six years of my music data, but does it understand my tastes?“Our viewpoint was very simple: let the artist and label control it. They can put it up on Connect for free if they want to, or they can put it up behind the [subscription] paywall, or they can make it available on the iTunes Store for sale. They’re in control of their music and how they want to distribute it,” says Cue.Iovine jumps in. “In my opinion as a guy who ran a record company, the promotion aspect has gone way out of control. You have gigantic companies feeding off musicians and artists, because the artists need the exposure,” he says.“There’s got to be a win for everybody: there has to be a win for the consumer, a win for the artist, a win for the rightsholders. We wanted to give artists a place where there’s a rhyme and a reason: where there’s an ecosystem where it feeds off each other. Where there’s a payoff! And not just a financial payoff, but an emotional payoff. A creative payoff.”Apple’s pitch to artists will also involve dismissing rival streaming services – from Spotify to YouTube – as mere “utilities”, it seems. “A lot of these companies were built as utilities, and this [Apple Music] is not a utility,” says Iovine.“As a matter of fact, some of the people we’re talking about came to my office and said ‘We’re a utility! That’s all we are: we’re a utility’. And I said well, that’s a problem,” he says, presumably referring to his days at Universal Music. “It’s a utility! It’s exactly what it sounds like: cold and noisy.”‘We put all our energy behind the family plan’Cue thinks that people will pay for Apple Music once they experience its features beyond that. As it turned out, despite rumours that it would undercut Spotify –$4.99 a month was being mooted in October 2014then$7.99 in February 2015– the service will cost $9.99 a month after a three-month trial.Wouldn’t Apple have liked to go cheaper? “No. We always thought ‘$9.99 is the price of an album’, so on a monthly basis that’s great. Where we put all our energy behind was the family plan,” says Cue, referring to the $14.99 option that covers up to six people in a family.Related:Why are Apple's music streaming plans arousing the interest of regulators?He also denies a recent report that Apple is planning to aggressively promote its new streaming service to people buying albums on the iTunes Store. “That’s the wrong way to look at it. You shouldn’t take a customer who’s buying an album, who’s happy buying an album, and try to tell them that what they’re doing is wrong,” he says.“We think that there are folks who are buying music who will continue to buy music for many, many years to come – and that’s great. And by the way they’re going get some benefits out of it, because they’re still going to get Beats 1 radio, and they’re still going to get Connect.”Instead, he says Apple is going after a much wider audience. “There are billions of people in the world, and there are less than 20 million [streaming music] subscribers in the world. So most people don’t subscribe to music, and we think there’s a great opportunity,” he says. (Actually, an estimated 41 million people paid for a streaming music subscription in 2014, according to industry body the IFPI.)“But we don’t have to, and we shouldn’t try to kill the iTunes Store or kill people that are buying music. If you’re happy buying a few albums a year and that’s the way you’d like to continue doing it … but if we can help you discover some new artists or some new albums through Connect or through listening to Beats 1 radio, great.”Winning over the hearts and minds of musiciansFinally, Iovine tackles one of the biggest hot potatoes for any streaming music service in 2015: the question of whether it can win over the musicians who are worrying about making a living from streams rather than sales.Apple is no more able to influence the music industry economics of how labels and publishers pass on payouts to performers and songwriters than Spotify is, although it can pay established artists lucrative advances to grant it exclusivity on their new releases – which is one of the rumoured strategies for Apple Music.Can Apple Music change the mind of musicians who are anti-streaming though? Iovine responds with a speech that focuses less on specific plans than on a general ethos.“You come out, you build this service, and a lot of it is based on free. So if you have a hit record, you’re only being paid on 20% of it, because 80% of it is free. So this generation [of] artists, the next five to seven years, they’ve got to pay for the future? What’sthat? No. No! That’s wrong from my viewpoint. From a musician’s standpoint,” he says.Related:Daniel Ek: Spotify and free music will save the industry, not kill it“So if you get 100m streams and you’re only really being paid on 20 million, that doesn’t work for the artist. Record companies will be here forever, but those artists will not be here forever. The individual who writes that song, at that moment, deserves to be compensated for it in a fair way.”He’s on a roll by this point: “90% of them were broke last week! These aren’t trust-fund people coming in making this music, y’know! Maybe there’s eight artists in the world that can just do anything they want financially, but there’s thousands of artists who could use a couple of bucks to get by and do this stuff right,” says Iovine.“That’s where I come at it from, you know what i mean? And we tried to build something that had enough of each thing to build an ecosystem that just feeds off each other, and gives back to an artist.”The specific economics of that ecosystem remain to be revealed – one of a number of unanswered questions around Apple Music. Does a single global radio station risk being a jack-of-all genres, and will fans want to listen to its shows on-demand rather than on Apple’s schedule?Will Apple secure exclusives from artists like Kanye West and Taylor Swift? What kind of analytics will artists and labels get from Apple Music? Will Connect’s ability to post to Facebook, Twitter and websites make artists use it more than they did Ping, Apple’s original attempt at a musical social network?When Apple Music launches later in June, some of these answers will start to emerge. But the upcoming battle with Spotify to be the smartest, most artist-friendly streaming service – as well as the determination of both companies to lure listeners from radio and YouTube alike – will make for compelling viewing.The Guardian paid for Stuart Dredge’s travel and accommodation to the WWDC show.
Smart home technologies mean your heating comes on at the right time, you can manage your lights from a smartphone, and your dishwasher sends you text messages. You don’t need to build a new house from the ground up to benefit from theinternet of things(IoT) in your home, but older buildings can be more of a challenge than newer residences.That 500-year-old house with thick stone walls is certainly beautiful, but good luck getting Wi-Fi signal to every charming corner; thatNest smart home heating systemsure is spiffy, but it doesn’t work with the storage heater in your 40-year-old flat. For help, we turned to Andy Stanford-Clark.He’s a fellow at IBM, heading up its IoT department, but it’s his hobby we’re speaking about. Stanford-Clark lives in a 16th century detached cottage that despite its age is possibly the UK’s smartest home.His windows have sensors that send an alert if they’re open when he leaves home, the fish pond fountain checks if it’s windy before turning on, his mousetraps alert when they’ve been triggered, and there’s even an automated heated towel rail that checks his Google calendar to see if he’s away to save energy.Sensors on windows in Andy Stanford-Clark’s home send an alert if left open when he goes out.Photograph: Andy Stanford-ClarkWhen he turns on his dishwasher, it texts him if it’s a high-use time, and therefore expensive for electricity, asking if the dishes can wait. He can reply by text. Not bad for a thatched-roof cottage older than the country that is home to Silicon Valley.Wireless woesWhen transforming an older house into a smart home, it usually makes more sense to use wireless technology than wires, Stanford-Clark advises.“But with a house like ours you get problems with radio range, because the Wi-Fi doesn’t reach all the way down to the end of the house, because the thick stone walls are absorbing the signal. So you have to use something like mesh-connected radio.”“Each sensor can see one other sensor,” he explains. “Mesh controllers such as ZigBee or Z-Wave not only offer good coverage, but devices using the communications system draw little power; however, there’s issues of interoperability. Either way, using such a system means you don’t need perfect Wi-Fi coverage.Andy Mack, director ofCyberhomes, disagrees on wireless, saying it is best to wire up as much as possible, especially for devices in a fixed location.When building a smart home from scratch, the sensors and controllers can be built into the walls, but if you’re retrofitting, you’ll need to “put things on the walls rather than in the walls,” Stanford-Clark notes.If you have renovations planned, Mack suggests considering installing smart features. “If you’re stripping plaster off the walls, maybe consider whether you want to put some wires in there while you’re at it,” he said.He notes that smart lighting systems can be installed at the wall plate, which can be modified to look like a traditional switch.Old heatingSmart energy meters and home heating systems are the most popular IoT device in Britain, according to Bergin Insight.Hiveis one smart meter company whose devices are supplied by British Gas. A spokeswoman says it is possible to connect its sensors to any heating system – gas, oil or electric – but not storage heaters.Even then there are options to smarten it up – and that includes those who rent. Stanford-Clark pointed out you can buy an adaptor that sits between the wall socket and the plug of your appliance. “It’s rather like switching the switch on the wall on or off remotely,” he explains.That means you can turn your storage heater on the day before returning from a long trip away so you come back to a warm house, or tell a fan heater to start up in the kitchen before getting out of bed. Such a system can get even smarter with the inclusion of a temperature gauge: using a simple system such asIf This Then That, you can easily programme a heater to go on at a certain temperature – and do much more.“One of my computers could take the decision to turn it on for me,” explains Stanford-Clark. It detects from the GPS in his smartphone that he is 15 minutes away from home and turns on the heating.The difficulty with older homes is the rooms often vary in temperature. The trick to that is to have smart heating sensors not only monitoring how cold it is in each room, but checking the external temperature, whether from weather websites or a sensor outside.Smart lightingSmart homes can be very simple and easy, but that means they are likely to be limited. They can also be super smart and fully automated, but therefore complicated.For example, it’s simple to add smart lighting to a home, regardless of its age. Buy a Philips hue bulb, screw it into a socket, download the app and you’re ready to go – however, a pack of three bulbs costs £149. If all you want is your front lighting to come on when you get home, that may well be all you need.If you want to try smart lights as well as switches to turn appliances on and off, consider a system such as Belkin’s WeMo or D-Link’s mydlink. Again, you’ll have to shell out for a switch or bulb for each “smart” addition to your home, but it’s simple to install – simply plug your floor heater into the WeMo device, and plug that into your wall socket.LightwaveRF takes it a step further – its smart sockets and switches directly replace the ones in your home, letting you control anything that plugs in.Stanford-Clark uses theRaspberry Pi, a cheap and easy computing board, as the brains behind his operation. You’ll need to be a bit handy and have a willingness to try programming, but websites such as If This Then That make it simpler.“A lot of things are in their early stages. But what makes it possible is that you can buy these things like a home heating controller, a Hive or a Nest or something like that, which comes with its own applications,” he says.That means it has its own smart system that works in the cloud, and its own app that you use to control it. “The disadvantage is, it doesn’t integrate with all your other things,” said Stanford-Clark. “ But those things will come.”Indeed, it could be set to get a lot easier with the advent of smart-home systems from Apple and Google. If you have an iPhone and buy devices runningApple’s HomeKit, due later this year, they’ll be able to interact with each other – the same follows forGoogle’s newly announced Brillo.The next year will be key for smart home platforms, so it may well be worth waiting for the internet of things to get a bit smarter and simpler before installing it in your home.
Hello Tuesday.
Forget the streaming music service and the software update. Forget Drake’s walk-on appearance and The Weeknd’s closing performance. Apple has women! Jennifer Bailey and Susan Prescott presented on stage at the Apple Worldwide Developer Conference conference on Monday – the first time Apple’s own female executives have presented publicly since the event was first held 1976.It was a major first for a company that has struggled, along with the rest of Silicon Valley, with a lack of diversity among its ranks, especially at the top.Speaking from the Moscone Centre in San Francisco, Bailey, the vice-president of Apple Pay, updated the audience on the company’s contactless payment system and said it would soon be making its UK debut.Related:El Capitan: Apple unveils next version of OS X softwareBailey said “250,000 locations across the United Kingdom are ready to accept Apple Pay”, which is a greater number than the initial roll-out in the US. More than 70% of credit and debit cards would work with Apple Pay, Bailey said.Merchants signed up include Boots, Marks and Spencer, and Waitrose. In London, commuters will be able to use Apple Pay for tube travel. Passbook is to renamed Wallet, and will allow users to store card information for easier transactions.Jennifer Bailey announcing Apple Pay’s arrival in the UK.Photograph: ScreengrabPrescott, Apple’s vice-president, also graced the stage to introducedApple’s news app,in partnership with various media outlets including Conde Nast – which will make 17 titles available to the app. The New York Times will offer 30 free articles per day.Prescott said: “News [the app’s name] has the latest stories, articles and posts, with over a million topics to choose from. The service would track over 1m topics and allow readers to follow all their favourite news sources as well as using search to discover new sources.”Susan Prescott, gives a speech on Apple’s news app, including collaborations with the New York Times.Photograph: ScreengrabRelated:Apple unveils streaming service Apple Music and 24-hour radio stationsLast year Cookcame out as gayand described his sexuality as “among the greatest gifts God has given me”.According to the company’s 2014 diversity report, 70% of its 98,000 employees were male and 55% were white.@jbentonThey had conference jackets with female-specific sizing for the first time at registration. So I’m expecting big things.&mdash; Julie Johnston (@Julia_JJ)June 8, 2015Apple and other technology firms have been criticised for having a predominantly male workforce, a lack of ethnically diverse employees and a low number of women in senior management positions. Angela Ahrendts, senior vice-president of retail and online stores, is the sole woman on its 10-strong executive team.The balance is typical for technology firms. Facebook reports a 69% male and 57% white workforce, while Twitter has a 70% male and 59% white employee demographic.Apple’s events typically feature slots from Craig Federighi, head of software engineering; marketing chief Phil Schiller; Eddy Cue, vice-president of internet services; and iOS software supremo Scott Forstall.I’m incredibly impressed by these talented student scholarship winners. See you all tomorrow at#WWDC15pic.twitter.com/LN1ZXmCqGf&mdash; Tim Cook (@tim_cook)June 8, 2015The more diverse speaker lineup is part of a concerted effort by Cook, who told technology news site Mashable on Sunday that “you’ll see a change tomorrow” with the speakers, and spent time meeting female student WWDC scholarship winners at Sunday’s orientation session.Apple also remains a “lifetime” partner for the non-profit organisation National Center for Women &amp; Information, which encourages women to enter into technology positions.
It is very difficult to read the words “Defense Department” and “robots” and not immediately come up with the phrase “robot army”, but if this weekend’s contestants at the Darpa Robotics Challenge in Pomona, California, invaded your town, the damage would be about what a gang of arthritic 90-year-olds could do, if those 90-year-olds also kept forgetting where they were and what they were trying to accomplish.These robots stumbled, they broke, they stood motionless for half an hour, they couldn’t get out of the car. And this was the exciting version - the 2013 trials in this competition were “like watching paint dry”, according to one Darpa worker.The robots may be coming slowly, and with a lot of stops and starts, and they often have to be repaired, reworked and disassembled over long periods of time. But they are definitely coming, and probably for your jobs.Christopher Atkeson, the ursine roboticist from Carnegie Mellon University on whom the villain in Disney’s Marvel Comics sci-fi cartoon Big Hero 6 was partially based, is very much in favor of better robots, soon. He wants them to be healthcare professionals like Baymax, the robot in that movie. Getting there, he told the Guardian, is “a long, hard slog”.“So you have Moore’s law for microprocessors,” said Atkeson, wearing a Build Baymax T-shirt of his own design and staring out over the Pomona fairgrounds where his team was about to field a challenger in the DRC. Moore’s law, he explained, means that the number of transistors on an integrated circuit doubles about every 24 months – essentially, microchips are twice as good every two years. Digital brains are constantly getting smarter, and digital perception, like reading road signs and lane lines the way the new generation of self-driving cars does, has progressed by leaps and bounds with innovations likeLidar.“That capacity is going to explode,” said Atkeson. “But when we start to talk about things that move, it’s mostly hydraulics. That hasn’t changed since world war two. Perception is going to be dirt cheap, but movement is going to be expensive.”“What’s going on in the car business is mostly perception,” Atkeson explained, the fruit of development in the self-driving cars that came out of the Darpa Urban Challenge. Much of the software work on the current project was already done before the humanoid robots even showed up; the same kinds of perception used by self-driving vehicles are crucial to the eyes and ears of the competitors in Pomona last week.Atkeson is something of a rock star here, and a veteran: 11 years ago, when Darpa offered its first million-dollar prize to the team of engineers who could make a car successfully navigate an obstacle course the way a human driver would, no one won. Darpa didn’t change the goals for the next year’s edition – they just increased the prize money, and that did the trick. Five teams completed the course. Last month, Daimler’sself-driving 18-wheelersbecame street legal in the state of Nevada, andUberandGoogleare edging ever closer to publicly available self-driving vehicles.Last week, three human-sized robots (one made by the Google-owned Boston Dynamics) successfully drove a car, not with a complex computer interface, but with a steering wheel. Things are moving forward, literally.Robots that can operate in human environments are incredibly difficult to make, largely because the raw materials that make up an organic body are so much more sophisticated than anything manmade. It’s frustrating for scientists like Atkeson, who’ve seen electronics far outstrip mechanics. Workarounds aren’t very practical, but they are abundant – you can build your own cyborg cockroachesfrom a kitthese days, cockroach not included (please email me if this is a problem for you – I have extras).That difficulty is why Darpa offered $2m to the winner of the challenge this year. Napoleon, DRC head Gill Pratt pointed out, discovered that you could keep food from spoiling in jars in 1795 (before germ theory) by offering 12,000 francs to the person who came up with the best method of food preservation. People and robots are natural partners, Pratt said: “The person is great at thinking strategically about what needs to be done. What is the robot good at? Working in a really dangerous situation.”Of course, robots can also work in non-dangerous situations, especially now. Automation has been diminishing the number of employees required on, say, a car assembly line for decades. Now it’s becoming possible to automate easier work. “I don’t think there’s necessarily anything more sophisticated about combing through records as a junior partner at a law firm than there is about working on an assembly line,” said Peter Frase, editor at leftist politics magazine Jacobin.“The technical frontier has moved from ‘How do we make one piece of metal and move it to another piece of metal?’ and become more about boiling down a lot of information into something that is comprehensible and useful.”IBM supercomputer Watson, for example, notable for crushing human opponents under its electronic boot heel (on Jeopardy) is now being usedto sort healthcare information.To be sure, robots are lousy novelists, and they’re not very good musicians, either. But the question, Frase said, is ultimately one of fundamental human politics. “It may be possible in principle to have a society where automation means that we all have more leisure time, but people who are promoters of this tend to talk about it as something that will inevitably happen,” he said. “It most certainly will not inevitably happen. We could easily have a future where a few people get rich and everyone else is unemployed and miserable.”
Apple unveiled its long-awaited streaming music service on Monday, entering a crowded market for online music that already includes Spotify, Amazon and Google, as the company seeks to re-exert its dominance in digital music.The launch at Apple’s Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco was introduced by the rapper Drake. “This is something that simplifies everything for the modern musician like myself, and the modern consumer like you,” he said.Related:El Capitan: Apple unveils next version of OS X softwareApple Music, as it’s known, was built by the team behind the Beats Music service that Apple acquired as part of its $3bn purchase of music-tech firm Beats Electronics in 2014.“2015, music industry is a fragmented mess. Do you wanna stream music? You can go over here. If you wanna stream video, you can check some of these places out. If you wanna follow some artists, there’s more confusions with that,” said Beats co-founder Jimmy Iovine as he introduced Apple Music on-stage at WWDC.“So I reached out to [Apple executives] Tim Cook and Eddy Cue and said: ‘Guys, can we build a bigger and better ecosystem with the elegance and simplicity that only Apple can do?’ ... All the ways you love music, all in one place, and that place is in almost a billion hands all around the world already: one single app on your iPhone.”Apple Music will launch in 100 countries later in June, initially available on iOS, Mac and Windows, with an Android version following in autumn. After a three-month trial, it will cost $9.99 a month, or $14.99 for a family plan for up to six people.Related:Apple takes on Facebook with revamped news appThe core of Apple Music will be a catalogue of millions of songs and music videos to stream on-demand, as well as a wide variety of programmed playlists created by its in-house team of editors, and by musicians. They will including a 24-hour radio station headed up by former BBC Radio 1 DJ Zane Lowe.The radio station is called Beats 1, and will broadcast round-the-clock from Los Angeles, New York and London. “The truth is: internet radio isn’t really radio, it’s just a playlist of songs. So we wanted to do something really big: a worldwide radio station broadcasting around the globe,” said Iovine.The third plank of Apple Music is something called Connect, a cross between Facebook and SoundCloud, where artists will be able to post music, videos and photos for fans that follow them. They will also be able to post from Connect to Facebook, Twitter and their own websites, as Apple bids to become the hub for their online activity.“Apple comes late to the music streaming business, due in part to Steve Jobs’ refusal to believe that music subscription services would ever work,” said Forrester analyst James McQuivey. “But the writing is on the wall: digital downloads don’t make sense for consumers that are connected wherever they go.”Related:This is a radio clash: can Radio 1 survive the Apple attack?“Can Apple beat Spotify? Yes, it can, not because its service will be any better - but because it can build its new music service into the hundreds of millions of devices that its loyal Apple users already love. Advertising will help, but magically updating your iPhone or iPad to include a free month of Apple’s new service will help Apple catch up to Spotify’s paid subscriber base in less than a year. However, it will also inject new energy into Spotify, as the service reaps the windfall of so much attention to the music streaming business it helped pioneer.”Beats Music started life in early 2013as a Spotify rival codenamed Daisy, developed within audio hardware firm Beats Electronics – the company co-founded by Dr Dre and Universal Music executive Jimmy Iovine.They hired veteran digital music executive Ian Rogers to run the service, and Nine Inch Nails’ Trent Reznor as its chief creative officer, before renaming it as Beats Music ahead of itsJanuary 2014 launch in the US.AfterApple bought Beats Electronics for $3bnlater that year, the company kept Beats Music running while putting its executive team to work on the company’s plans to launch a new streaming service in the summer of 2015.Related:Daniel Ek: Spotify and free music will save the industry, not kill itBeats Music had 250,000 paying subscribers in May 2014according to Iovine, although the Wall Street Journal recently reported thatthis figure rose to only 303,000 by the end of that year– by which point, Spotify had 15 million paying subscribers out of its 60 million active users.Former Radio 1 DJ Zane Loweandseveral of his producer colleagueshave been poached by Apple to work on the new service, although there have been a few clouds over it in the weeks leading up to its announcement.Apple’s licensing deals with major labelsreportedly went down to the wirebefore the planned announcement – although this is hardly uncommon in the music industry.More serious were reports thatregulators in the US and Europe are investigating complaints from rivalsabout potentially anticompetitive behaviour from Apple.That speculation focused on rumoured plans to strike exclusive deals for music; the way it takes a 30% cut of subscription payments made within those rivals’ iOS apps; and claims that Apple has been encouraging labels to pressure Spotify to restrict its free service.Apple’s next moves in streaming are being eagerly anticipated by the music industry, which hopes that competition between Apple, Spotify, Google/YouTube and other streaming services will spark a return to growth for the industry.Related:Why are Apple's music streaming plans arousing the interest of regulators?An estimated 41 million people paid for a streaming music subscription in 2014,according to industry body the IFPI, which claimed that another 100 million use the free tiers of services like Spotify – collectively generating $1.6bn for the industry.“A new launch from Apple, when it comes to the UK with its vast digital penetration and marketing reach, could represent one of those pivotal moments when the industry takes its next big leap forward,” said Geoff Taylor, chief executive of industry body the BPI.“It is sure to give the streaming market, which doubled last year in the UK, a further turbo boost. And most important, it is likely to deliver a fantastic experience for music fans, helping to drive consumer awareness and appreciation of premium music subscription as something that enhances your life.”•Apple Music interview: ‘Algorithms can’t do it alone – you need a human touch’
Apple opened its new watch up further to developers on Monday in a bid to improve the smartwatch experience for customers, separating it from the iPhone and allow more customisation.The latest version of its new smartwatch operating system – WatchOS 2 – will let app developers run apps directly on the watch, rather than powered by the connected iPhone, similar to other smartwatches from Google, Pebble and Samsung.Related:El Capitan: Apple unveils next version of OS X software“Today we’re bringing native apps to the Watch ... We believe in technology for the wrist and we believe that you will create powerful new apps to change our lives,” said CEO Tim Cook on the stage of WWDC, the tech company’s annual developers’ conference.The new apps will be subject to fewer restrictions, and will be able to run similar to Apple’s own programmes. Fitness tracking apps, for instance, will work without an iPhone connected. Apps will also be able to connect directly to the internet via Wi-Fi without an iPhone connected.Apple’s Kevin Lynch promised “performance will be great”, addressing the complaints of slow app loading and sluggish performance leveled at the Apple Watch.Apple has added two additional photo-based watchfaces, one for personal photos and another featuring time-lapse photography linked to the wearer’s current location. An alarm clock mode, which displays the time overnight on the watch’s screen, was also added.The Watch will now be able to play short form video, such as vines via a glance screen, on the watch face and control internet of things with Apple’s HomeKit from the watch face. Users will be able to reply to email from the watch, a function previously limited to text messages, while a new calendar, event and app browsing system called “Time Travel” will allow users to fast forward in time and see upcoming events.WatchOS 2 will be available as a free update in the fall.Related:Apple iOS 9: new software focuses on speed, size and longer battery lifeOn WatchOS 1.0, all third-party apps worked in conjunction with a paired iPhone. The phone does the heavy lifting, and the code running directly on the watch is limited to the user interface. That has severely constrained what developers could do with their watch apps, particularly in situations when a paired iPhone isn’t available.The decision not to launch the Watch with native app support was widely believed to be due in part to the compressed timeframe for the launch, with the watch shipping just months after the kit was made available to developers. But the company’s focus on extending battery life for the watch was also seen as a key reason for preventing power-hungry native apps from running. Battery life is likely to be impacted by native apps.Google’s competing smartwatch platform, Android Wear, has always offered developers the ability to run directly on the device, in keeping with the platform’s general selling point of “openness”.But even owners of those smartwatches may benefit from Apple’s change: the install base of the Apple Watch is large enough to guide development practices generally. For example, transit app Citymapper launched a simple Android Wear app first, before launching a much more full-featured Apple Watch app and porting it back to Android Wear.
The next update to Apple’s iOS iPhone and iPad operating system was unveiled on Monday and introduced a new intelligent search assistant, greater speed and security.Related:El Capitan: Apple unveils next version of OS X softwareThe free update that will be available in September is aiming to refine features and styles implemented last year with iOS 8, instead of launching big new features, as the operating system matures following Jony Ive’s promotion to chief design officer.Apple has concentrated on optimising iOS to run smoother and faster with lower power consumption, adding an extra hour to the iPhone’s battery life, plus an additional low-power mode will add another three hours of iPhone battery life.One of the more significant new features is a new search assistant that builds on Apple’s Spotlight search facility and integrates with Siri to create a Google Now competitor, capable of displaying data from apps and the web, and controlled via text or voice.IntelligenceSiri can now offer directions based on invitations pulled automatically from email, as well as when to leave reminders based on events. The information displayed is context sensitive, including the ability to understand that the user is looking at something in particular when they say “remind me aboutthislater today”. Users can plug in headphones in one location and always get the music app, for instance.Apple’s search app Spotlight will also be able to pull information straight from the web and apps such as recipe app Yummly. Siri will also be able to search via voice for photos and other apps. A search for “Eddy Cue karaoke” for instance, will bring up pictures from the Photos app.“All of this is done on device, and stays on the device, under your control,” said Apple’s senior vice-president of software engineering Craig Federighi, saying that searches made on the internet are performed anonymously, as Apple is not interested in your data, a dig at rival Google.A new Transit view in Apple Maps includes directions for public transportation.Photograph: AppleApple Maps will see an overhaul, with public transport directions, including those within London, New York and San Francisco, and enhanced street-level imagery, similar to Google’s Street View.NewsSusan Prescott, Apple vice-president of product management and marketing, speaks about the News app.Photograph: Jeff Chiu/APApple also launched a new news aggregation app called “News” – a Flipboard-style interface for content from third-party publishers including the New York Times and ESPN. Apple stressed that readers would be anonymous and that their reading would not be tracked. It will be available in the US, UK and Australia.The iPad received enhanced multi-tasking upgrades with the ability to have more than one app on screen using “slide-over” similar to Microsoft’s Windows 8.1 split-screen modes.Videos can also be played in a picture-in-picture windowed mode, while the virtual keyboard gained text editing features and enhanced support for bluetooth keyboards, taking aim at Windows tablets and laptops.One of the big changes will be in the sizes and speeds of apps built using Apple’s Swift language. The programming language, open sourced by Apple, will form an integral part of the new operating system.The operating system will also take up a smaller amount of space on the device, requiring 1.3GB of free space to install. iOS 8 required more than 4GB to install, which caused issues for users requiring them to delete apps.Increased securitySecurity has been improved in iOS 9 to help fend off hackers. Stronger end-to-end encryption will be used for syncing information such as notes and reminders, while a new set of security extensions will prevent unauthorised access to secure files.The new measures are likely to cause issues for the jailbreaking community, which often exploits weaknesses in system files to open up iPhones and iPads and install custom software.iOS 9 will support all devices currently running iOS 8, available as a free update in the fall.Apple follows Google in focusing on making existing features operate better, faster and more efficiently. The search giant announced it was making very similar changes to its nextversion of Android “M”, designed to boost battery life, security and speed, while boosting privacy features and adding advanced Google Now integration.
Wikipedia’s “high court” looks likely to reprimand one of its senior administrators over the way he investigated claims that the former Conservative party co-chairman Grant Shapps used an account to edit his own page and those of rival Tories.The site’s arbitration committee – a group of volunteers chosen by the community to adjudicate on controversial decisions – looks certain to stripRichard Symondsof the right to unearth the IP addresses of Wikipedia users and also the ability to hide certain key edits.The 15-person committee is likely to reach its decision in the next 24 hours.In April, after the Guardian approached a number of administrators with details of edits made over several years, Symondsblocked the accountof a user named Contribsx because of suspicions that it had been used by Shapps or “someone under his direction”.The committee has criticised Symonds for the way he used his access to the site’s CheckUser tool, which can uncover the IP addresses of devices used to make edits. It said it “does not believe that there was a significant violation of policy through this action but that it creates an appearance of favouritism” towards the Guardian.It looks unlikely that Symonds will be “desysoped” and lose all rights as an administrator on Wikipedia. Neither does the arbitration committee propose at present to reverse Symonds’ decision to block Contribsx.The disclosure during the general election campaign that Shapps was suspected of engaging in “sock puppetry” – creating a fake online identity for improper purposes – proved highly embarrassing to the Tories. David Cameron faced questions about the story on the campaign trail.Shapps denied the allegations. After the election he was removed from the post of party co-chairman and made a minister at the Department for International Development, a move widely seen as a demotion.Symonds, whom the Tories tried to paint as part of a political conspiracy owing to his previous membership of the Lib Dems, said it would be be premature to comment on the outcome of the internal investigation before the committee votes.He added: “That said, my heart is warmed at the upwelling of support, both private and public, that I have had from the flurry of experienced Wikipedians who believe that I did the right thing.”
Apple Pay will come to the UK in July, Apple confirmed at its Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco on Monday.It will be available at more than 250,000 locations - more than the number of merchants it had in the US for last year’s launch.Related:El Capitan: Apple unveils next version of OS X softwareParticipating retailers include Marks &amp; Spencer, Costa and Waitrose – as well as Transport for London, meaning that Tube and bus travel can be paid for with Apple’s contactless payment system.Apple Pay will be supported by more than 70% of the credit and debit cards in the UK, said Apple executive Jennifer Bailey at WWDC.The mobile payment system launched in America in 2014, alongside the iPhone 6, but has been slow to expand to other territories.Britain is the first country outside the US to have access to use Apple Pay, which lets users pay for things, both on- and offline, using just their phone or watch.When used as an offline payment system, Apple Pay works in conjunction with an NFC (near-field communications) chip found in the two newest iPhones and the Apple Watch to let users pay for goods by tapping their phones on contactless card readers in stores.In the US, the system took a marathon of deals to put together, with Apple negotiating with banks, retailers and credit card companies individually to build enough support.Elsewhere, however, the launch is expected to be much simpler because Apple Pay uses the same technology as that found in conventional contactless card readers, already common across much of Europe and Asia.But unlike contactless cards, Apple Pay includes an extra security measure – tokenisation – which ensures that the card details stored on a phone are never passed to the retailer. Instead, the payee receives a one-use “token”, which allows them to debit the payment but cannot be reused in future.Online, Apple Pay uses the same tokenisation system to speed up and secure e-commerce, letting iPhone owners pay for goods on supported websites with just a tap of their finger on the phone’s fingerprint reader.In the US, uptake of Apple Pay was strong, with more than 40% of iPhone 6 owners having used it at least once, according to Auriemma Consulting.But the service was hampered by a need to bring partners in one by one, leading to some major hold-outs: most notably Walmart, which is alreadywaging a war against credit card firms over merchant feesand reportedly views Apple Pay as merely perpetuating an expensive system.
Apple announced the latest update to its OS X desktop software on Monday, which the company says will make it faster and easier to use.OS X 10.11 El Capitan, named after a mountain within Yosemite national park, will be available as a free update in the autumn.Related:Apple iOS 9 to give four extra hours of iPhone battery lifeApple’s Craig Federighi said it was going to be the fastest version of OS X to date: “It’s up to 1.4x faster and we’ve seen it twice as snappy switching between apps.”The company has rewritten parts of the operating system to optimise it, extending battery life and making existing computers feel faster. It will be able to open PDF documents four times faster, for instance.Apple brought its Metal graphics system from its iOS to the Mac, which Epic Games, developers of the Unreal graphics engine used by many of today’s top games, said was significantly faster and less processor intensive for rendering intensive graphics.Spotlight, Apple’s search engine, also so an upgrade with semantic searches.“Users can search for “documents I worked on last June” and it will find all the documents created in June last year on your Mac,” said Federighi.Apple has improved window management in El Capitan, including the ability to size windows to half the screen, something Microsoft’s Windows has had baked in for years but requires a third-party app such as Moom or manual rearrangement on Yosemite.Federighi said the company had made many hundreds of small changes to the rest of Apple’s core apps, including Safari which can now pin tabs within the tab bar in the corner and can load instantly.
Apple revamped its news service on Monday, making a play to take on Facebook as the two tech giants court readers and publishers to be the top platform for news.Media organisations including the Guardian, ESPN, the New York Times, Conde Nast, the Daily Mail and Hearst will produce content specifically designed for the new service, which will replace Newstand, Apple’s current news app.Related:Apple iOS 9 to give four extra hours of iPhone battery life“News [the app’s name] has the latest stories, articles, and posts, with over a million topics to choose from,” Susan Prescott, vice president of product marketing, told Apple’s WWDC developers’ conference. She said the service would track over 1m topics and allow readers to follow all their favourite news sources as well as using search to discover new sources.Craig Federighi, Apple’s senior vice president of software engineering, said the New York Times would initially provide 33 articles a day tailored to the service as would other publishers including ESPN and Conde Nast magazine’s including Vogue and Vanity Fair.While content will be hosted and delivered on Apple’s platform, the publishers will own the content and control the format of articles. Publishers will also be able to sell premium ads through the app and keep the revenue. The service looks similar to Flipboard, an app that serves up news and other articles in a magazine-like format, and can be tailored to location as well as other preferences.Tony Danker, international director, Guardian News &amp; Media, said: “We’re excited to be a launch partner for Apple News. Like Apple, we are increasingly seeing a surge in demand for original, high quality journalism from millions of new readers. And we are delighted that Apple and other large platforms recognise the value and influence of Guardian journalism.”Related:El Capitan: Apple unveils next version of OS X softwareApple’s Newsstand, launched in 2011, was heralded as the saviour of newspaper and magazine market in the internet-connected, smartphone and tablet era. The app saw digital magazine and newspaper revenue quadruple in the first year.But more recently publishers have complained that Newsstand hides content rather than highlights it. Many have switched to standalone apps dedicated to pulling content from websites, like the Guardian app, which has offered them greater visibility both on the iPad homescreen and within stores.Publishers will now sell apps directly within the App Store like any other app, with Apple continuing to take a 30% cut of revenue from subscriptions.Within the new Flipboard-style app, publishers participating and displaying content will keep 100% of revenue for ads they sell around their content. Apple will also help sell unsold ad slots for a fee, according to the tech site Recode.The revamp comes after Facebook revamped its news serviceand announced it would partner with publishers to promote stories.
Ever thought that stepping out of the shower and drying yourself on $100 dollar bills might be just a littletooostentatious?Ever wanted to bathe in liquid gold but didn’t want to be judged in times of global austerity?Well, never fear, for Amazon issellinga $800bn towel set, or $796bn, to be fair (£521bn). We’re guessing that stockistsPortlighthave made a fat-fingers keyboard mistake, or someone at the company has a very, um, dry sense of humour.The towels, manufactured byCalcot Ltdand which apparently come in just the one colour – amethyst, obviously – are woven into “super soft Supima cotton loops using zero-twist technology”. We have no idea what this means either, but damn it, we need these towels.The set, ludicrously, does not come with a free serf to hand-wash the towels using miniature bottles of Fiji water, and then dry them by soft whispering of compliments into the fabric, but are machine washable and tumble dryer safe.The amethyst towel set available to buy on Amazon – for 700 billion dollars.Photograph: Amazon screengrabThe set does include two “generously sized” bath towels, two hand towels and two wash cloths (otherwise known as flannels).The towers are “less prone to pilling”, which is a word wehad to look up on Google.“Functional and decorative fold-over edge is added to finish off an already perfect towel”, reads the description, and at least one punter agrees.David H writes inhis product review:“This is quite possibly the best towel ever made. I had to take out a second mortgage on my house and sell my children into indentured servitude but it was way worth it.The cotton alone must have been grown in heaven. Every time I dry off I feel like I’m wrapped in joy. Sometimes I will take this towel to the lake and fish jump into my boat just to be near it. Where ever you are, this towel will attract attention.”However, Jonathan M. Pryce is less than impressed:These towels cost 12-figures and they’re not even Amazon Prime eligible??”Clay P. is equivocal:It’s alright.”The average rating for the product is 3.8 stars, but we live in an imperfect world. You can order the towel sethere. But, beware, postage and packaging is $4.49 shipping . Which, frankly, is a rip-off.
After two months, and more than a million clicks, the weirdest social experiment on the internet is over: Reddit’s Button has hit zero.And it ended, not with a bang, but a whimper: hiding behind the end of the countdown was nothing more than a simple message reading: “The experiment is over.” Even that was underwhelming, having been accidentally revealed multiple times owing to server crashes.For the uninitiated, the button began as an April Fools’ Day prank on the social news site Reddit. On that day, the site’s admins published a short blog post. “When this post is 10 minutes old, a button and timer will become active at/r/thebutton,” it explained.“The timer will count down from 60 seconds. If the button is pressed the timer will reset to 60 seconds and continue counting down.“You may only press the button once.”The post was factual: the newly formed subreddit did indeed hold a button, a timer, and a dynamic pie chart. Users could only push the button if they were logged in with an account created before 1 April 2015, and, true to Reddit’s word, they could only ever push the button once.‘Filthy pressers’Rapidly, a small but intensely devoted community built up around the social experiment, based largely on one other facet of the button. Depending on what time was showing on the clock when a particular account gave in and clicked, a specific “flair” would be assigned: purple if pushed in the first eight seconds, then blue if pushed in the next 10, the green, yellow, orange and finally red. Until the button is pushed, the flair is grey.And once you start labelling people, it’s only a short step to them taking the labels seriously. Sure enough, that’s what happened at the Button. The biggest split emerged between those who had pushed, and those who had not: the “filthy pressers” versus those who would never do such a thing.Of course, within the non-pressing camp, there was another split, dividing those who didn’t press because they wanted to see the button hit zero, and those who didn’t press because they wanted to ensure that they would be able to reset the button at the last minute – the self-proclaimed “knights of the button”.In the end, though, it was only going to end one way. By the third month, the button was hitting zero more often than not, and even with round-the-clock vigilance from the knights , it would have taken 1,400 accounts to throw themselves at the button every day to prevent it from timing out.The final point of failure was even less spectacular: a co-ordinated attempt to keep the button alive by automatically pressing it with donated accounts when it got too low had been working on overtime, but a fatal flaw meant that no-one bothered to check whether the anointed account actually could press.The bot queued up the account, attempted to press the button – and found that the account had been registered after 1 April.And so, at 10:50 UK time, the experiment ended. It had involved 1,008,316 Reddit accounts – although, given how many people used multiple accounts to get extra presses, probably fewer individuals – and lasted three months and five days.It finished the way it started: witha message from the Reddit adminswarning participants that “when this post is 10 minutes old, this subreddit will be archived”. No new comments can be left, and no new posts can be made.On the plus side, three months is a fairly good innings for an April Fools’ Day prank.
A growing number of children’s app makers are upping their efforts to ensure their products do a better job of reflecting the diversity of their young audiences.This was the verdict of a discussion atTech With Kids’ Developing Apps for Kids conference in San Francisco, where moderator Raul Gutierrez of developerTinybopadmitted that his industry has more work to do on diversity.“Gender depictions tend to be very stereotyped and depictions of race and socioeconomic difference is very rare in many apps,” said Gutierrez, whose company’s apps include Homes, The Robot Factory and Simple Machines.‘Bias turns up anyway, whether you want it to or not’One of the leading children’s apps firms isToca Boca, whose chief executive Björn Jeffery talked candidly about the company’s failings, as well as its efforts to do better.“We have been taking a particular stand on gender-neutrality: all our apps have intentionally been designed to be unisex,” he said. “I don’t think we do terribly, but I think we could do a lot better. ”Jeffery said that Toca Boca had hired a “third-party expert” to audit its apps for diversity, and produce a checklist for the company to use for new products.“We had diversity as a very live issue, and something we took pride in and discussed internally. But we gradually realised that bias turns up anyway.”Toca Robot Lab was redesigned to be less boy-focused.As an example, he gaveToca Robot Lab, a robot-building app that was released in 2011: a “classically boy-skewing theme of building robots” that the auditor suggested played to those stereotypes with its colour scheme and art-style of “rusty old things that you might find in a garage, as opposed to everyday things you might find at home”.Related:10 best apps for kids encouraging real-world play and explorationToca Boca redesigned the game’s visuals and added in more of the latter kind of objects. “It opened it up and made it much more inclusive than it was from the beginning,” said Jeffery, who cited his company’sToca Hair Salonrange of apps as much more successful in bucking gender stereotypes.The apps get children to play virtual hairdresser for a collection of characters. “Something that would traditionally skew very much towards girls, but we intentionally did not go for princesses and pink, which was the obvious fit that would sell,” said Jeffery.“I would guess that Toca Hair Salon 2 outsells Disney Princesses by 10 times at least. I would argue that it’s probably one of the most successful kid-apps ever, and it looks really weird. It looks super-strange, and we have loads of boys having fun with this, as well as girls.”‘Girls are capable of being more than just a princess’Also on the panel was Debbie Sterling, chief executive ofGoldieBlox, which makes science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) focused toys and apps for girls.“We’ve been trying to break down gender stereotypes, and teach girls from a young age – and boys too – that girls are capable of being more than just a princess or pop star,” she said, suggesting that STEM-related characters in many forms of children’s entertainment – apps included – tend to portray maths and science ability as somehow innate.“Many girls think ‘I’m not a born genius, so I’m going to give up. I’m not even going to try, I’m just stupid’. That’s part of the reason that led to our development of Goldie Blox the character as not being a genius,” said Sterling.She added that STEM-related TV shows often focus on “boy genius” characters, and that even when a girl plays a central role “she’s the nerdy girl genius … it’s hard to relate to that if you think you’re just a girl who wasn’t born with it”.Sterling warned that children’s app developers can often fall into stereotypical traps, even if they test products with girls while they’re in development.Abby Jenkins, Amber Levinson and Debbie Sterling at the Developing Apps for Kids event.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian“Research can bite you in the ass a little bit, because of what’s been popular so far. You can fall into the trap of ‘if I want to create something that girls are going to like, it’s gotta have pink, it’s gotta have baking, it’s gotta have princesses’,” she said.Related:Children's apps maker Toca Boca gets into video with Sesame Street veteran“And if you bring girls in and say ‘do you like this app that has baking or this app that has building?’ nine times out of 10 they’re going to go for the baking one. The pitfall would be to shrug your shoulders and think that’s what you’ve got to make, because that’s what girls want.”“It would be easy for us to do a baking thing, but that’s not what we’re about. That’s not what we stand for. Even though those stereotypical themes are popular right now, actually girls are more multi-faceted than that. They like many things.”Another panel member was Abby Jenkins, senior director of content atPBS Kids Digital, who talked about TV show Odd Squad and its digital offshoots.“We want to make sure that kids, for all of our shows, see themselves reflected in these properties. We have cast this diverse group of kids, and we’ve got girls doing math and guys doing math,” said Jenkins.PBS Kids’ Odd Squad: Blob Chase mobile game.Fellow panellist Amber Levinson, of Stanford Graduate School of Education and the Joan Ganz Cooney Center, agreed that the diversity of the teams creating apps is important, as is the diversity of the children and parents they work with to test those apps while they are in development.Related:Google makes Android more family-friendly with new features for parentsLevinson expressed frustration at the lack of research around apps and diversity for developers to draw on, but pointed to relevant studies on books, suggesting children learn to read better if there are characters they identify with. “It makes all the sense in the world that would apply to materials such as apps,” she said.Levinson’s own research has focused on Hispanic/Latino immigrant families in the US, and she suggested children’s app developers think about diversity of language, as well as race and gender – especially for families where the children’s English-language skills may outstrip their parents.‘It is literally impossible to please everybody’Sterling admitted that GoldieBlox has faced criticism about diversity due to Goldie, its first character, being white and blonde. “That wasn’t something I thought about very much: her name was Goldie, so we’d give her blonde hair,” she said.“Now we’ve brought in an ethnically diverse group of friends, but she’s still the main character, and the one on the app icon. Sometimes I wish we’d done this differently.”She suggested that even when app developers are thinking about diversity, they are still likely to face criticism – and sometimes from unexpected sources.“What’s challenging with this stuff is it is a heated issue. Gender and race are heated, and it is literally impossible to please everybody. If you try to please everybody, you will end up with something so watered down, nobody’s going to like it,” said Sterling.The Goldie Blox character was criticised for being white and blonde.“Especially with gender: it always gets criticised no matter what, especially by feminists. Here are people who you’d think would be our biggest champions, but it’s ‘she’s too skinny, I don’t like her outfit…’. Nobody ever criticises the boy characters, but everybody criticises the girl characters. There’s always something to be criticised.”Developers continue to explore these issues, although sometimes they encounter stumbling blocks. Gutierrez admitted that when Tinybop experimented with a pink icon forThe Robot Factory, boys were unwilling to use the app. “There are limits to how much you can push culture sometimes.”
Smart cars of the near future could refuse to start if the driver exceeds the drink-drive limit.The US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), working with a consortium of car makers including Ford, GM and Volkswagen has developed an alcohol detection system for vehicles that will prevent those over the limit from driving.The NHTSA unveiled a prototype car fitted with its newDriver Alcohol Detection System for Safety(DADSS) technology. The technology includes a steering wheel-mounted breathalyser and an engine start button that detects blood alcohol level via an infrared light.Both will operate as passive systems, detecting alcohol level as the driver breathes normally, presses a button or holds the wheel. If the system detects the driver is over the limit it will refuse to start the car.DADSS research programme.Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx said: “Education, awareness and enforcement have succeeded in dramatically reducing drunk driving fatalities, but the advanced technology of DADSS brings enormous potential to save even more lives.”The US is not pushing for the technology to be made compulsory, but the agency expects the technology to be an option for new cars in the next five years. The system will first be tested within prototype government vehicles.Mark Rosekind, an NHTSA spokesman, said: “Driver Alcohol Detection System for Safety has enormous potential to prevent drunk driving in specific populations such as teen drivers and commercial fleets, and making it an option available to vehicle owners would provide a powerful new tool in the battle against drunk driving deaths.”Traffic collisions involving alcohol account for 10,000 deaths on US roads a year. However, the figures for the UK are much lower, with an estimated 230 people killed by drink driving incidents in 2012, according to the Department for Transport.Technology that could be built into the driving experience, such as an alcohol-detecting engine start button, could quickly become standard within commercial vehicles aided by safety and insurance incentives.Bringing such technology to private vehicles is likely to take much longer, although car makers including Toyota have been working on their own systems for about a decade.•Stricter drink-drive limit comes into force in Scotland•Number of women drink-driving doubles in recent years
As Apple prepares to expand Apple Pay to Europe at WWDC, anecdotal evidence suggests that the company’s forecast for US adoption may be too optimistic and that many retailers remain skeptical about the payment system.Chief executive Tim Cook made the confident prediction in January that 2015 would be “the year of Apple Pay”. Since then, Apple has aggressively courted retailers – and claimed significant success. A spokesman said “about half” of the top 100 US merchants will accept Apple Pay this year, with more to follow in 2016.The service is one of Apple’s biggest bets – a chance to tie customers more tightly to its phones and its new smartwatch, as well as to take a tiny bite from every retail transaction.To assess Apple’s progress, Reuters took the National Retail Federation’s list of the top 100 US retailers, surveying the 98 that had brick-and-mortar outlets (two sell only online); 85 supplied detailed responses, and 11 others supplied information only about whether or not they accept Apple Pay, while two did not respond.While some of the top US retailers said they use and like the mobile payment system, fewer than a quarter of the retailers said they accept Apple Pay, and nearly two-thirds said they would not be accepting it this year. Only four companies said they planned to join the scheme in the next year.The top reasons retailers cited for not accepting Apple Pay were insufficient customer demand, a lack of access to data generated by transactions and the cost of technology to facilitate the payments.Some merchants said they were waiting to participate in a new mobile payment system being launched by a coalition of retailers later this year.Small but growing marketAccurate figures on mobile wallet payments are difficult to obtain. Neither the companies offering payment systems nor credit card issuers will disclose detailed data about usage. However, analysts agree that they are used for only a tiny fraction of US retail transactions.An online survey conducted by Verifone and Wakefield Research released in January 2015 found that mobile wallets accounted for about 4% of the overall payments market for in-store US retail transactions.How that market is divided up among the major players is not entirely clear. An ITG Investment Research study conducted in November, soon after Apple Pay was launched, found that the service accounted for 1% of digital payment dollars, while Google Wallet accounted for 4%.Since then, analysts agree, Apple Pay’s market share has grown considerably. Steve Weinstein, senior internet analyst for ITG, said: “In the last six months or so there has been more acceptance of Apple Pay. Google Wallet has kind of stalled out.“Tim Cook said on a call with analysts in January that Apple Pay accounted for two out of three dollars spent in “contactless payments” in the US, but the company did not provide further details.Still, it is clear Apple Pay has made considerable progress in signing up vendors, with more than 700,000 sites as of 9 March – the last time Apple updated its numbers, including self-service terminals such as vending machines, laundromats and parking meters.Interviews with retailers suggest that the company has relied on aggressive marketing to recruit participants. “They have been pushing hard and it’s been that way for months,” said the representative of one large retailer that has no plans to accept Apple Pay. “They have called and tried to persuade us even after we communicated our decision to them.”He added that the company had not adopted Apple Pay because not even a “small percentage” of its customers had asked for it.‘Speed, convenience and security’Many companies that accept Apple Pay report that they and their customers are happy with it. Whole Foods spokesman Michael Silverman said that Apple Pay transactions accounted for 2% of its US sales as of March and that it expects use to rise.“Our shoppers are really enjoying the speed, convenience and security of Apple Pay,” he said.But for other retailers and consumers, Apple has yet to answer the question “what is in it for us if we use Apple Pay?” said Alberto Jimenez, program director for mobile payments at IBM, which provides technology to mobile wallet makers and retailers.The program does not offer loyalty rewards to customers, as companies such as Starbucks do with their mobile applications, nor does it provide customer information to retailers about Apple Pay users.For 28 of the retailers surveyed by Reuters, lack of access to data about customers and their buying habits is a key reason they don’t accept Apple Pay. “One of the biggest concerns is data control,” said Mario De Armas, senior director, international payments at Wal-Mart Stores.When a credit card is swiped through a terminal, the retailer gets the name and card number, which when combined with publicly available demographic data like address, phone and email, helps retail chains send well-targeted promotions to customers.Wal-Mart and 18 of the other top retailers are part of a coalition challenging Apple Pay with a mobile wallet called CurrentC, which is scheduled to launch later this year.Retailers participating in CurrentC will not be allowed to accept any other mobile wallet until 2016, according to a senior official at MCX, the company launching CurrentC.For that reason alone, 19 of the NRF’s top 100 retailers will not be able to accept Apple Pay before the end of the year, although three of them said they plan to accept Apple Pay by early 2016.Another reason cited for not accepting Apple Pay by retailers surveyed was the cost of terminals and computer upgrades required to accept a mobile wallet.The cost of accepting a mobile wallet is highly variable depending on what technology they already have in place. Apple declined to comment on the cost to retailers of accepting Apple Pay.
Apple will finally unveil its new streaming music service to take on Spotify at its WWDC event in San Francisco later on Monday.The company has been working on the move since buying Beats Electronics, the music technology company founded by Dr Dre and music industry veteran Jimmy Iovine, last year.The Sony Music boss Doug Morris confirmed at the Midem conference in Cannes on Sunday that the Apple launch would take place on Monday.Apple’s new service is expected to sit alongside its existing iTunes music download store, charging users £10 in the UK or $10 in the US for a monthly subscription for unlimited access to its vast catalogue of music.The fact that Apple has been negotiating licensing deals with major labels right up to the last minute is not expected to delay the announcement.Besides Dre, Iovine and Beats Music’s chief creative officer, Trent Reznor (also of rock group Nine Inch Nails), Apple recently hired DJ Zane Lowe and four of his Radio 1 producer colleagues to work on the new service.Speculation before the announcement suggested that radio-style curated playlists would be a prominent feature, with musicians including Pharrell Williams, Drake and David Guetta also tipped to be contributing as tastemakers.Apple’s principal rival will be Spotify, the world’s most popular subscription streaming service. The Swedish-headquartered company has 60m active users, including 15m paying subscribers.Other streaming services include Deezer, Rhapsody, Google Play Music, Tidal and Rdio.“If we now get more players into this space, we can increase the growth even faster,” Spotify’s chief executive,Daniel Ek, told the Guardian ahead of the launch.The Deezer chief executive, Hans-Holger Albrecht, said: “They will help educate the market: it’s good if a big company like Apple moves in: it tends to accelerate understanding in the market and floats every ship upwards.”Apple will also unveil its latest software update for iPhones and iPads, iOS 9, at WWDC. It is expected to focus on stability improvements, although there will also be new features for Apple’s burgeoning community of app developers to make use of.“The developer base continues to grow dramatically: more and more developers from a wider range of solutions in a wider geography,” said Apple’s senior vice-president of worldwide marketing Phil Schiller.“It’s incredible how quickly this is all happening. When you start adding this [apps] up, it’s now being measured as an economy. As an industry, this is bigger than Hollywood, which is just unbelievable to think of. And that’s a great industry.”Apple is also expected to announce changes to its Apple TV service and an expansion of its Apple Pay mobile payments technology.Launched in the US in October 2014, the contactless payment system enables iPhone and Apple Watch owners to pay for goods and services at bricks and mortar shops.Apple’s smartwatch will also be prominent at WWDC, with the launch of a software development kit for developers to make full apps that run on the device itself, rather than simply extensions of iPhone apps.“It’s only been weeks since it [the watch] has been out, so there’s a lot to be figured out,” said Schiller. “We are already up to thousands of applications, but we are really just at the beginning for this.”
Monday!
WithJurassic Worldabout to hit cinemas, the toothy reptiles are sure to regain some of the popularity they may have lost in the years since Steven Spielberg’s original dinosaur romp. Hence, then,Bad Dinos, an attempt to put a novel spin on the creaking tower-defence genre – with some success.The usual formula of placing weapons around a curling course to destroy herds of roaming raptors/T rex/insert your carnivore of choice, before they can escape is present and correct, as are the special powers to help you when the cold-blooded menace is too much to handle. The twist is the ability to ensnare some of the beasties, train them and then target them back on their scaly friends. It adds a tactical nuance to a style of game that can often become terribly repetitive. Rather than just blasting at whatever comes on to the screen, now there’s a decision about which type of creature to spare, catch and brainwash and when to release them to maximum effect.The most fun, of course, is to recreate the end of the originalJurassic Park, capturing a tyrannosaurus, before setting it loose upon the always unpleasant velociraptors. Spielberg would be proud.
Magicka 2starts out cheerily – all the wizards are dead. Given the chaos the magically inclined caused in the first game, that’s not so bad. Then the twist: enter a great evil that just happens to need some colour-coded mages to stop it. Like its predecessor,Magicka 2’s greatest strength is its anarchic tendencies, its in-depth spellcasting system often rewarding you for trying unlikely magic combos. Each spell requires tapping in “codes”, one element at a time from a selection of 10. The results are far-reaching: “fire + shield” can make you immune to fire damage, or weapons can be elementally charged for greater effect.Experimentation is half the fun, even when you go wrong. The flipside is that it gets complex, fast. In battle, you need to be incredibly quick-witted (and fleet of finger) to hammer out spells, which soon frustrates. It’s also repetitive when played solo, thoughMagicka 2’s flaws are somewhat alleviated when played co-op with friends.
The real-time strategy is a rich genre, but one that many shy away from. Defined by gameplay where players enact strategies simultaneously rather than by taking turns, RTSs are inclined to be intense, are often deeply complex, and adopt stern military themes, none of which represents an enticing entrance to the form. Which is where elegant indie gameInterlopersteps in. The team at Monogon have distilled the contemporary RTS, and rebuilt it as something straightforward and quick to play.Interloperpresents an engrossing minimalist RTS, tackled in five-minute bursts, that does not sacrifice depth for its simplicity and short-form play sessions.Players have to claim territory in diminutive 2D maps by marking each level with colour, left like a trail by otherworldly mouse-controlled sea creatures. Daub enough of the map with your colour, and victory is claimed. But as you secure turf, so does your rival. Be they human or computer-controlled, they will constantly reduce your share, as you consume theirs. Bolstered by additional basic unit control, combat mechanics, the game is an easily learned, rewarding little gem. It may lack the longevity or intricacy of the most demanding in the genre, butInterloperis every bit a true RTS, and an unusually inviting one at that.
A mobile phone app that enables eyewitnesses to download evidence of alleged atrocities from anywhere in the world so it can be verified and used to prosecute perpetrators is being launched on Monday.The London-based International Bar Association (IBA) has developed digital technology that will help human rights activists document and store photographs and films that can be shown in court.The initiative is initially aimed at bringing to justice those responsible for war crimes, torture or genocide in conflicts such as those raging in Syria, Ukraine or the Democratic Republic of Congo. It could eventually be extended to record abuses committed by paramilitary groups or security forces who use violence to disperse demonstrations.In the age of citizen journalism, where billions of people have mobile phones, video footage is increasingly significant in court cases.Most Metropolitan police officers, for example,are due to be equipped with body cameras by next year. Hunt monitors regularly rely on video evidence in bringing prosecutions; the inquest into the death of Ian Tomlinson in 2009 during G20 protests turned on revelations recorded on a mobile phone camera.The initiative for the IBA’s storage and verification system, known as eyeWitness to Atrocities, stems from difficulties prosecutors experienced in relying on disputed footage of the alleged execution of captured Tamil Tiger fighters during the closing stages of Sri Lanka’s civil war. In the end, the images could not be presented in a trial because their precise timing, origin and therefore authenticity could not be proved.The eyeWitness app is designed for Android smartphones but will be adapted for other devices. The scheme has been developed with the London legal data firm Lexis Nexis, which will store the information on its servers in the USA.Theapp– which is free – adds a time-stamp and GPS-fixed location to recorded images which can then be encrypted and uploaded later to the system’s databanks from anywhere in the world.Ian McDougall, general counsel of Lexis Nexis, said there is an option for the film to be deleted once sent – to protect witnesses whose phones might be seized later and examined by hostile forces. The software also has a “panic button” that allows the user to erase from view all recorded information as well as the app itself.“There will be no trace to show that a particular video was there,” he explained to the Guardian. “There will be a team of lawyers from the IBA in London who will review the footage and decide if it should be submitted to an international war crimes tribunal.”Lawyers developing the project have held talks about the procedure with the international criminal court (ICC), the international criminal tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) and former prosecutors.Asked what would happen if lawyers for a foreign country tried to use legal powers of discovery to gain access to the stored material, McDougall said: “It would be a matter for the courts but we would defend the right of confidentiality and insist that the film or photos should only be used for the purposes for which they were given.”One of the problems of presenting videos as evidence in court has been ensuring they are proofed against counter-claims that they have been falsified or digitally altered. The eyeWitness project says that as well as creating “a trusted chain of custody record”, it also incorporates a counter that records the number of pixels in order to demonstrate that images have not been digitally manipulated.The former South African judge and international war crimes prosecutor, Richard Goldstone, was on the board that oversaw the app’s creation. “I have little doubt that the pictures will be admitted in evidence because of the way it has been set up,” he told the Guardian. “Their provenance will be beyond question.“Nowadays if there’s a demonstration in [Egypt’s] Tahrir Square of 10,000 people, about 6,000 of them will have smart phones. We will be able to review exactly what happened.“I hope it will act as a deterrent: police and security officials will know that if they use disproportionate force or attack civilians it will affect their careers.”He acknowledged that the project could generate vast amounts of evidence. Had it been available when he was the first chief prosecutor at the ICTY, responsible for sending investigators into Bosnia in the mid-1990s to gather evidence, he said, “this app would have been very useful”.Photographs alone may not always be sufficient, he added, “but taken with the testimony of at least one outsider, they are likely to be crucial. I have no doubt that once it is widely known, it will become hugely important”.The IBA, founded in 1947, brings together international practitioners, bar associations and law societies from around the world.“The eyeWitness to Atrocities app will be a transformational tool in the fight for human rights, providing a solution to the evidentiary challenges surrounding mobile phone footage,” said Mark Ellis, IBA executive director.“Until now, it has been extremely difficult to verify the authenticity of these images and to protect the safety of those brave enough to record them. As an advocate for the voiceless, the International Bar Association is dedicated to empowering activists on the ground who are witnessing these atrocities with the ability to bring criminals to justice.” DLA Piper, a London law firm, has also helped refine the admissibility requirements for evidence.Wendy Betts, director of the EyeWitness app, said: “There’s a wealth of material to be mined from this [social media and crowd-sourced] footage if it can be authenticated.”
In 1989, American author Norman Cousins wrote that poetry was the key to preventing computers from dehumanising us: “The company of poets may enable the men who tend the machines to see a larger panorama of possibilities than technology alone may inspire. Poets remind men of their uniqueness.”Twenty-six years later, researchers in the US are testing that idea, starting with search engines and image databases. Any nuance or metaphor gets lost on an engine such as Google: search “sorrow”, for example, and you’ll get pictures of people crying, whereas a human might associate a more varied range of images, such as a foggy seascape or an empty forest. This is because computers use metadata (the data search engines associate with the millions of digital objects out there, from YouTube videos to Instagram pictures) in a completely different way to the human brain. Our human “metadata” tends to be far more symbolic and less literal. But what if an image bank was populated by poems? Can robots learn from our view of the world?ThePoetry for Robotsproject has created an online image bank of 120 pictures, which anyone can access in order to write poetry inspired by what they see. By feeding poems to the robots, the researchers want to “teach the database the metaphors” that humans associate with pictures, “and see what happens,” explains Corey Pressman from Neologic Labs, who are behind the project, along with Webvisions and Arizona State University.The project also poses the question: “Can an algorithm, informed by our poetic input, generate compelling works of its own?” The answers will start coming in September, when they perform initial searches at theWebvisionstechnology conference in Chicago.The hope is that, with a big enough dataset, “we’ll be delighted to see we can teach the robots metaphors, that computers can be more like us, rather than the other way around,” says Pressman. “I’d like them to meet us more halfway.”
Related:US threatens sanctions against culprit in hacking of federal employees' dataMike McCaul, the chairman of the House of Representatives homeland security committee, on Sunday said he believed China was responsible for the recent hacking of personal data of 4 million federal employees.The Obama administration has not apportioned blame, though it did this weekthreaten possible economic sanctionsagainst the culprit.“This was the most significant breach of federal networks in US history,” said McCaul, a Texas Republican. “And that’s very significant. We look at the threat indicators and ask who has the motive to steal this data in a huge data-mining project that targeted political appointees in the federal government and federal employees.“Now, in my judgment this was an attack by China against the United States government. It quantifies to espionage. And that raises all sorts of issues that we need to deal with.”The hack,which was revealed this week, affected the federal Office of Personnel Management and the Interior Department. The OPM is responsible for most federal security clearances.Adam Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the House intelligence committee, was less quick to apportion blame duringan appearance on Fox News Sunday.“It’s very valuable information,” said the California representative, “and while we’re not allowed to comment on the attribution yet, we’ve gotten very good at attribution.“And there are only two possibilities here with an attack this sophisticated – either a state actor or a group of private hackers who often work in concert with the state.”When the hack was revealed, the New York Times and Washington Post both reported that Chinese hackers were to blame. So did Susan Collins, a Republican from Maine who sits on the Senate intelligence committee.On Thursday, the Chinese embassy in Washington deflected questions on the matter, saying jumping to conclusions was “not responsible” and “counterproductive”.On Friday, White House press secretary Josh Earnest said: “When it comes toChina, you all know that the president has frequently, including in every single meeting that he’s conducted with the current Chinese president, raised China’s activities in cyberspace as a significant source of concern.”In April, Obama responded to increasing attacks by launching a sanctions programme to target individuals and groups outside the US. The move followed indictments of five Chinese military officers on charges of economic espionage. The US officials has also blamed North Korea for a high-profile attack on Sony.Adam Schiff is the ranking Democrat on the House intelligence committee.Photograph: Alex Brandon/APMcCaul, who was appearing on CBS, was asked if the hack could have been carried out by the Chinese state or by “private” hackers working for it.“All the threat indicators point to the fact that it is China, perhaps nation-state sponsored, because of the way it was done,” he said.“It was not done to steal credit card information. It was done to get personal information of political appointees in the federal government and federal employees, to exploit them so that later, down the road, they can use it for espionage, to either recruit spies or compromise individuals in the federal government.”Asked about possible US retaliation, McCaul said: “This is an area where there are no rules of the game, in terms of espionage and in terms of stealing information.”On Fox, Schiff said: “One of the things we really have to do, in addition to the defence, is figure out when we are going to go on offence, and how we’re going to provide a deterrent to future attacks.”
Related:Try, Robot: Darpa contest sends new humanoids into 'nuclear reactor'On Saturday evening, with their sleek humanoid robot DRC-Hubo, a team of roboticists and engineers from the Korean Advanced Institute of Science and Technology in Daejeon, South Korea, won $2m from the R&amp;D arm of the US defense department, Darpa, by outperforming 24 other robots in a simulated nuclear reactor.Competitors came from all over the globe to Pomona, California, on Friday and Saturday. The two-day contest took place at the Fairplex, formerly the Los Angeles County Fairgrounds. The robots were built and piloted with funding from sources as disparate as the European Union, Amazon and Nasa.Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (Darpa) leadership praised the competitors in a speech during the prize-giving ceremony.“You are going be the vanguard of this new future that you’re going to go build,” said Arati Prabhakar, director of Darpa. “We have people here from countries all over the world, and every single one of you made an incredible contribution to the field of robotics.“As you do that, I know you’re going to think back to 2015, the end of the [Darpa Robotics Challenge] and the beginning of a huge journey.”Pensacola, Florida-based IHMC, which worked with Atlas, a robot created by Google-owned Boston Dynamics, took home the $1m second-place check. Tartan Rescue, a team from western Pennsylvania with Amazon and Foxconn money in its squat red robot, Chimp, nabbed the $500,000 third-place prize.The robot Chimp prepares to complete a task.Photograph: Mark Ralston/AFP/Getty ImagesRelated:Humanoid robots – in picturesAll three teams finished the eight-task challenge, which involved opening a door, navigating or clearing a pile of rubble, driving a car (and then getting out of it), breaching a wall, closing a valve and climbing stairs.The eighth task was kept secret from the teams until the second day – robots had to undo and replug a big black plug. On the first day, each robot had to operate a much easier toggle.There was no rule set for solving the challenges and the competitors differed wildly. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology fielded an Atlas as well, multiple Japanese teams had robots of their own design, and Nasa’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory used a robot that transformed from a creature that looked like a four-legged spider into a thing that looked like a monkey on wheels.
SpotifyRun to the beatSpotify Runningis a new feature and part of Spotify's "now experience" that detects the rhythm of your run and matches it to a song with a similar tempo. This means that in theory you'll always be running in time with your music. To get started, go to your settings (three white bars, top left), select Running and choose one of the playlists available. Spotify will then instruct you to begin running so that it can detect your tempo. For example, if you run at 150 steps a minute Spotify will play only songs that have been recorded at 150 beats per minute. You can manually adjust the steps/min by increments of five if you feel the detection is off or if you want to use the feature but your smartphone does not have an accelerometer.Watch and listen to showsYou can now watch and listen to both video and audio shows on Spotify. Tap Shows to check them out. At the top you'll see a few featured suggestions as well as the option to browse video or audio shows individually. Scroll further down and you'll find some useful categories to help you refine your search such as Lifestyle, Tech &amp; Gaming, News, etc. Spotify has teamed up with a lot of entertainment bigwigs such as ABC, Comedy Central, NBC, and Vice Media, to name a few, so you can probably expect to find a lot of high quality content here in the near future.Hide your guilty pleasuresSpotify keeps a log of every song you play, which is a great feature for keeping track of what you're listening to and for sharing your music with friends through social media. However, it's not such a great feature if you have some questionable music taste that you'd rather other people weren't aware of. Fortunately this is easy enough to fix. On Spotify's desktop app click File &gt; Private Session. If you'd like even more privacy, click Edit &gt; Preferences and turn off  "Automatically make new playlists public" as well as "Publish my activity on Spotify".UseBBC Playlisterto create playlistsBBC Playlister is one of the more interesting music curation services for people in the UK. It allows you to create your own playlists within Spotify based on songs that have been featured across the BBC TV and radio. Go to bbc.co.uk/music/playlister, sign up for a free account and link your curated playlist by clicking the Spotify icon (other streaming services are also compatible). So let's say you just heard a great track on Radio 2 and you want to listen to it again: go to Playlister, click Tracks, sort them by most recent, find the song you just heard and add it to your playlist. The same process would apply if you heard something on any other channel across the BBC.View lyrics as your music playsSpotify now has a lyrics button, which is currently available only on the desktop app, so if you mainly use Spotify on your mobile device, this one may have passed you by. You can find the button on the bottom right of the window, to the left of the Queue button. There are even a few settings you can play around with at the bottom of the window. From here you can remove the album art from the background, alter the size of the text, and edit or report inaccurate lyrics. You can also display the lyrics all at once or have them appear on the screen in time with the song, karaoke style.Manage your notificationsSpotify has a lot of notifications (27, to be precise) that you can take control of. You can access these in the Spotify app by going to Settings &gt; Notifications. You'll immediately see a few that you'll probably want to turn off straight away. For instance, I turned off "New user tutorial", "Music recommendations", "Radio station suggestions", "New album release", "Friends from Facebook join Spotify". That information can stay in the app – I really don't need it pushed to my phone's lock screen. Things like Inbox and New follower are more important to me, however, so I left those on. If you hate any and all push notifications then you'll be pleased to know there's a option to disable all notifications.Use Spotify Premium (and any other streaming service in this list) for freeWould you like five months of ad-free, high quality, streaming music without paying a penny? Of course you would. The great thing about all of the streaming services listed in this article (Spotify, Tidal, Google Play Music, Deezer and Rdio) is that they all offer a free trial of their premium service for 30 days. So go ahead and sign up for Spotify's premium service to get your first 30-day free trial and then immediately cancel your subscription. You'll want to immediately cancel because Spotify will automatically renew your subscription after the free trial, which will set you back £10. The beauty of this is that if you cancel straight away, you get to continue using free premium content for the full 30 days before your premium privileges are removed. This method works for all the streaming services in this article, so after one trial is over, simply hop on to another and daisy chain them together to get five months of ad-free music streaming.TidalAdjust your stream qualityTidal prides itself on being the first music streaming service with hi-fi sound quality, so it's important you're taking full advantage of all it has to offer. From either the web or mobile interface click Settings on the bottom left and then click Streaming. From here you can choose from three quality settings: AAC +96 (Normal); AAC 320 (High); Flac 1411 (hi-fi). The mobile app streaming settings are more extensive, allowing you to change the Wi-Fi, Mobile and Download streaming settings individually. There's also an optimised playback button, which will adjust the streaming quality based on how strong your Wi-Fi or data connection is. Although one of Tidal's biggest selling points is its high streaming quality, you'll want to make sure you don't use Flac (hi-fi) when roaming, as this could end up costing you a lot of money if you don't have unlimited data.Share the loveUnfortunately Tidal offers very little by way of sharing capabilities. However, fans of Last.fm will be pleased to know that you can at least scrobble your songs (for those not in the know, scrobbling is a form of automatic archiving provided by Last.fm) by heading to Settings &gt; Sharing &gt; Connect to Last.fm and selecting the scrobble checkbox. From here you can also connect your Facebook account, allowing you easily to share favourite tracks with friends.Search by audioHere's a fun little feature that seems to be available only on Tidal's mobile app. Click the three white bars in the top left to open the configuration sidebar and select Audio Search at the bottom. Now tap the microphone in the middle of your screen and hold your phone or tablet up to a music source. After a few seconds of listening, Tidal will find you the song that's being played, provided it's in Tidal's library. We've seen this before and it's by no means a new idea, but it's always a nice little feature to have and if you don't regularly use the mobile app, it's one of those things that can be easily missed.Manage your offline devicesThere are two ways to manage your offline devices. From Tidal's mobile app go to Settings &gt; Offline &gt; Authorised Devices. You'll see a list of devices you have authorised, tap one and it gives you the exact date it was registered and when that device last logged into your account. Unfortunately you're limited to three devices at any one time, but you can deauthorise and reauthorise as many devices as you like. Simply head to https://my.tidal.com/gb/account/offline if you wish to adjust these settings on your browser. This is something you'll want to be familiar with if you listen to music across multiple devices or you intend to share your account.Google Play MusicEqualise your musicBizarrely, equalisation controls are available only for the Android version of Google Play Music. You cannot access this setting in your browser or in the iOS app. That said, if you have an Android device go to Settings &gt; General &gt; Equaliser. You can fiddle with the settings manually, or you can use some of the presets provided by Google, such as bass punch, brilliant treble, balanced, vocaliser or extreme bass.Use the mini playerWhile using the browser-based music player, there's a small greyed out square with an arrow in it next to the timestamp on the right of the screen. Click this and you'll activate the mini player – a separate window with minimal Google Play Music controls. This is great if you've loaded up a playlist or two and don't need much control over your music. Additionally, keeping your playback outside your main browser window can be a good way to declutter your workspace and keep things organised. While control is limited in this view, you can still thumbs up songs and play the I'm Feeling Lucky radio station in addition to viewing album art.Desktop notificationsWith Google Play Music's desktop notification you can find out which track is playing without having to switch back and forth between tabs or your mini player. This is one of Google's "lab" features, which means it's still a bit experimental and potentially buggy, but I've been using it with no problems. To turn it on, go to Settings &gt; Labs &gt; Desktop Notifications. With this activated, a small window will appear at the bottom right of your screen every time a new track starts. The window will display the song title, artist name, album title and album cover and will disappear after a few seconds. Alternatively, you can close the window manually.Chromecast Fireplace VisualiserWhile you're still in Labs, you might also want to check out Chromecast Fireplace Visualiser. Once activated, this will display a video of a fire on your TV via Chromecast while casting music. This is a bit of a weird feature and I'm not sure why it exists. It could perhaps be good fun while hosting house parties or maybe an interesting way to inject a bit of festive glow in December if you bung on some Chistmassy songs at the same time. Others have suggested this could be used romantically. An evening by the fire with your significant other and some sexy music, that sort of thing. The only thing is, it's not a real fire, is it? So you're probably just going to feel a bit silly. I would not recommend the romantic option.DeezerCull Deezer spamDeezer will send you a lot of unnecessary emails by default, which can be annoying. For instance, I really don't want my email clogged up with Deezer's music recommendations or news about the latest Deezer Sessions and other events. On the rare occasion I  want that information, I'll look for it myself. Fortunately, it's possible to unsubscribe from all of its mailing lists. To do this from the browser, click the small cog next to your name then click Settings &gt; Alerts &amp; Sharing. Scroll down to the bottom and uncheck the promotional emails.Go with the flowDeezer calls its flow feature your "instant and personalised radio channel". Basically, if you can't be bothered to create a playlist or you don't know what you want to listen to, you can activate flow, which will start streaming music to you based on what you have listened to in the past. If you don't like one of the suggestions, you can tell Deezer never to play it again; likewise, if you really enjoy a track, you can add it to your favourites while at the same time giving Deezer a better idea of what kind of music you like. Click Hear This and select Start Flow.Adjust your smart cacheSmart cache is a clever feature that stores your most played tracks locally so that they reload faster if you're in areas with poor Wi-Fi or data connectivity. It's like offline mode, but without the hassle of having to specify which tracks you want to make available offline or having manually to download new tracks as your library expands/tastes change. To increase or decrease your cache size go to Settings &gt; App &gt; Smart Cache. Now adjust to slider depending on how large or small you wish your cache to be. The larger the cache size, the more songs you can store locally, and vice versa. You can also empty your cache from here and set the slider to zero if you don't want any songs taking up space.Track your listening habits withStateezticsDeezer has lots of great apps. A good one to get started with is Stateeztics. This will track your listening habits, provide information about the songs and artists you listen to, keep you up to date with what your friends have been listening to (provided they also use Stateeztics) and even tell you what the soundtrack to your life is. It's good fun and a great way to get into using third party apps in conjunction with Deezer. To find Stateeztics just go to the App Studio, search for Stateeztics, select it and tap 'Add to my apps'. Once installed, why not head back to the App Studio and see what else is on offer now that you're more familiar with them.RdioChange your playlist imagesChanging your playlist images is a doddle with Rdio. From your web-browser select a playlist, click the three dots to the right of the play button and select Edit Playlist. A new window will pop up. From here you can change the title, description, privacy and the image associated with your playlist. Next to Artwork click the button that says Upload new image and select any picture you have saved. If you don't like your new image, click Remove directly below Upload new image and Rdio will replace it with the original picture. This works for any playlist, regardless as to whether to not you created it.Use your phone or tablet as a remote and moreThis is such a simple yet incredibly useful feature. Let's say you're playing Rdio on your computer at home. If you open up the Rdio app on your phone at the same time and you're on the same network, a blue bar will appear at the bottom of the app stating "Rdio is playing elsewhere". Tap the blue bar. A new window will pop up, giving you full control over the song playing. Not only can you play, pause, skip, like or dislike the song, but you can also look at the album's artwork at the same time. If you want to listen to Rdio on your phone rather than use the app as a remote, just tap the button that says "Tap to play here instead".Sleep timer (app only)Here's another simple but great feature. Go to Settings &gt; Additional &gt; Sleep Timer. Now you can tell Rdio to play for a specific time – ranging from 15 to 120 minutes – before it shuts off. This is fantastic for people who like to fall asleep to music. Even better, if you've created a soothing playlist to help you drift off. Just set it to your desired time, put it to one side and forget about it, safe in the knowledge you won't be wasting data or having to get out of bed later to switch your device off. Unfortunately this is available only in Rdio's app and not in its browser interface.Drag and drop album covers to quickly share or add songs to your playlistsIf you're listening to Rdio in your browser and you want to quickly add the song currently playing to a playlist, just click the song's artwork and begin to drag. A little sidebar will pop up on the right, giving you the option to share the song with fellow Rdio users, Facebook friends, Twitter followers or to add to a playlist. Drag the image on to the playlist button and you can then either add it to an existing playlist or create a new one.
The chief executive of Spotify, Daniel Ek, has predicted that the free online music service will help the industry grow to as much as 10 times its current size, in a future where old distinctions between providers break down.Having paid out $3bn to music rights holders so far, Spotify is pitching itself as a competitor to traditional broadcasting, having recently added news, weather, podcasts and videos to its service. “The old-world paradigms we used to have are no longer true. When I think about music in the future, I don’t make a distinction between what’s radio, what used to be the music library, and so on,” Ek told theObserverin a rare interview. “It’s only going to be listening – and, as that goes forward, this old notion of these different industries or different competitors will collapse and merge together.”Spotify is stepping up its efforts to appeal to mainstream radio listeners by emphasising its collection of playlists “programmed” by an in-house editorial team and suggested to users based on the time of day, popular activities and their listening habits. “We’re getting better and better at giving upcoming artists exposure on the service and creating tools to give those new artists a way to market themselves. In the future, people will listen to more music from a bigger variety of artists,” said Ek. “And if we build the revenue model around ‘freemium’ [a business model that gives basic products away for free], the music industry will be much larger than it’s ever been before, more artists will be able to make a living by being artists and more people will listen in turn.”Daniel Ek: ‘If we’re able to transition the traditional radio behaviour online, you’re looking at a music industry that’s much larger than it’s ever been.’Photograph: Earl McGeheeSpotify will have to win over its doubters first, including convincing them that it can turn more of its 45 million free users into paying subscribers – it has 15 million of the latter – and thus increase the money earned by artists and songwriters, via its payouts to the labels and publishers that represent them.Some artists, most famously Taylor Swift, have been criticising Spotify’s “freemium” approach, which allows people to listen for free to its basic, advertising-supported service.The boss of the world’s largest music label, Universal Music, called free streaming “not something that is particularly sustainable in the long term”. With industry rumours of Apple egging major labels on to restrict Spotify’s free service, Spotify is feeling the heat. “It’s no secret there’s been a lot of debate,” said Ek. “In any industry which is in a massive transition, those kinds of debates occur, so I don’t think it’s surprising. And suppliers always want to get paid more, which is also not very surprising.”Ek added that Spotify is “aligned with the industry” on its desire for more subscribers, but returned to the idea of Spotify as the new radio – traditionally a free, ad-supported medium – to stand his ground. “The entire recorded music industry has somewhere between $14bn and $15bn in trade-sales value. Now look at the radio industry, which in the US alone is around $16bn in revenue and globally is about $80bn – four times the size of the music industry,” said Ek. “If we’re able to transition the traditional radio behaviour online, you’re looking at a music industry that’s much larger than it’s ever been. If you do that, and also add subscription to the mix, especially at Spotify’s conversion rate, you’d be looking at a music industry that would be $100bn to $160bn in size. That’s the key argument that I think gets lost here.”Spotify is far from the only company pursuing this aim. Deezer, Rhapsody, Tidal, SoundCloud and other streaming services are jockeying for attention, although it is technology giants Apple and Google that are more likely to be Spotify’s nemeses. On Monday, Apple is expected to unveil its new rival to Spotify, with hundreds of millions of iPhone and iPad users to market to, and deep pockets to secure exclusive music from popular musicians.Google has one service already live under its Google Play brand, and another in testing.Ek claimed that Spotify’s music focus will be its trump card. “We don’t really do anything else other than selling music, so we’re the most aligned with the music industry,” he said. “We don’t have the search box that we’re making money from, or the hardware that we’re making money from.”The downside to this is resources: Spotify reported revenues of €1bn in 2014, compared with Apple’s $199.7bn and Google’s $66bn. The costs of running a streaming music service – Spotify reported a loss of €165m in 2014 – are a drop in the ocean for hardware and search-engine businesses.“Yes, obviously it’s easier if they want to absorb the costs into other places. But we believe in the business model of Spotify, and believe that ultimately we’ll become profitable at some point,” said Ek.“If we think there’s 10x potential yet to be unlocked, why wouldn’t we invest in that growth rather than optimise for short-term profitability? We think this is a huge opportunity.”
For anyone still in doubt about the impact ofEdward Snowden’s revelations, it might be instructive to review what has been going on in the US Congress over the last few months, with legislators grappling with bills aimed at curbing the surveillance capabilities of the NSA and other federal agencies. In the end, in a classic congressional farce, there was a brief intermission in the NSA’s data-gathering capabilities, after which the Senatepassed a bill to endthe agency’s bulk collection of the phone records of millions of Americans.At one level it’s a significant moment: one in which –as aGuardianleader writer put it– “an outlaw rewrites the law”. And in a few other countries, notably Germany, Snowden’s revelations do seem to be having a demonstrable impact – as witnessed, for example, bythe Bundestag’s inquiryinto NSA surveillance within the Federal Republic.These are non-trivial outcomes, but we shouldn’t get carried away. The revelations have had close to zero effect on the way the British security agencies – and their political masters – go about things. And now that the Tories are liberated from the tiresome obsession of the Lib Dems with privacy and human rights, who knows what Theresa May and the spooks are cooking up? (The relevant passage in theQueen’s speechmerely says that “new legislation will modernise the law on communications data”.)On the other side of the Atlantic, although the USA Freedom Act does introduce a number of reforms, the surveillance landscape remains largely unchanged. Americans’ phone records will still be hoovered up – but now by the telephone companies, not the NSA – and access to them will require a warranting process. And elements of transparency around government surveillance and the operations of the secretFisacourt will be introduced.Illustration by Matt Murphy.So while there is some good news for American citizens in the new legislation, the position for the rest of the world is that nothing changes. The US retains the right to snoop on us in any way it pleases – and of course to spy on any US citizen who has the misfortune to exchange a phone call or an email message with us. Edward Snowden’s revelations have thus brought about some amelioration in the domestic surveillance regime within the US, but so far they have done little to protect those who live outside that benighted realm and quaintly regard privacy as a basic human right.All of which brings to mind a term much beloved of old-style Marxists, but now increasingly useful in understanding what is happening in a digital world. The term is “hegemony” – defined as “the social, cultural, ideological, or economic influence exerted by a dominant group”. The spectacular arrest of the alleged Fifa corruptibles in Zurich provided a startling example of hegemony in action. The Swiss authorities, who for decades have apparently ignored the exotic corrupt practices of an organisation within their jurisdiction, were suddenly jolted into action by pressure from a powerful US law-enforcement agency. And then they announced that they would be energetically investigating allegations of corrupt practices in relation to the contracts for the next two World Cups.You could view this as just a routine example of international collaboration between two law-enforcement agencies. Except that this is not the first time in recent history that the Swiss found themselves dancing to an American tune. For the best part of a century, they zealously protected the secrecy of their banks. But in the end, that was rendered unsustainable by US regulatory agencies. Access to dollar facilities made smaller private banks engaged in tax evasion not viable, and two of the oldest simply closed their businesses. The coup de grace came in 2009 when UBS panicked andgave the Internal Revenue Service 5,000 names, after which the secrecy game was well and truly up.All of which happened in the old world order. The modest legislative reforms approved by Congress suggest that the new world order will be much the same. The only difference is that the US is now using digital technology – and the “soft power” that comes from its huge internet companies – to police the networked world. And its rulers will make no apology for that: hegemony, after all, means never having to say you’re sorry.
Robots are terrible drivers.The one that had just navigated a smooth stretch of road a few hundred feet long had taken 15 minutes to do so, and it didn’t really fit behind the wheel of the little red chrome four-wheeler, a sort of all-terrain golf cart called a Polaris Ranger. Instead, the robot had wedged itself across two seats and had to be winched out of the car with a chain hanging from a pulley system at the top of a big rolling frame. It had also had a hard time with the turns.“Come on!” yelled an Italian woman sitting in her team’s section of the stadium. “Go, Walk-Man!”A team of concerned-looking European engineers in mod blue hard hats were chatting and staring worriedly at Walk-Man, a hulking metal thing with bright LED lights on either side of its head, as it stood at the threshold of a fake nuclear reactor. A moment earlier, there had been raucous cheering throughout the Fairplex, formerly the Los Angeles County Fairgrounds, in Pomona, California, for Walk-Man had done the nearly impossible: he had opened a door.Now, Walk-Man looked tentative, as though having second thoughts about whether or not to step over the threshold.On Friday and Saturday, the Darpa Robotics Challenge – the “Robolympics”, unofficially, according to a couple of engineers laughing next to the Trac Labs garage, where a Boston Dynamics Atlas humanoid dangled from a scaffold – completes its final competition, with 25 teams of engineers and scientists giving orders to huge machines trundling across a landscape designed to simulate the impassible environment that greeted aid workers after the Fukushima Daiichi reactor in Japan melted down multiple times in 2011.South Korean Team KAIST’s robot climbs stairs to complete the simulated disaster-response course.Photograph: David McNew/ReutersEngineers tried to help, but no robots could navigate the hazardous terrain and disaster ensued, rendering a huge area around the plant uninhabitable after toxic steam exploded into the skies. The radioactive leftovers arestill emitting a million watts of heat.If a Darpa contestant is able to navigate the terrain successfully, and in a short amount of time (each team has an hour to run the course) it will become the richest robot in town: first prize is $2m, second prize is $1m, and third gets $500,000.The public event is a cross between the Consumer Electronics Show and an episode of Mythbusters. Inside the Fairplex, the stands were filled on Friday with people cheering for their favorite androids. Outside was a big expo with kids running around playing with (or staring terrified at) all kinds of robots: some dancing, some playing music, some swimming in a giant tank where they can be piloted with a video game controller. One company, Ekso, makes robotic trousers that make it easier to carry a backpack.The purpose of the main event, however, is deadly serious.“The idea, inspired by Fukushima, is to come up with a simulation of a disaster that is like [that],” said Dr Gill Pratt, the avuncular, eloquent director of the Tactical Technology Office (TTO) program at Darpa that oversees the project.Darpa is the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the arm of the US Defense Department that is responsible in large part for the creation of the computer network, Arpanet, that became the internet.HRP-2 at Darpa. Its kill switch presented problems for Walk-Man.Photograph: Darpa“The teams will not have any human help for the robots themselves, and the key element, again, is between the human controllers and the robot is a very degraded communication link,” Pratt explained.From the stands in front of Walk-Man, communication appeared to degrade earlier than scheduled. The robot on the track next to Walk-Man, HRP-2, stood at the same phase in its trial, in front of its own door. Something went wrong, however, and it collapsed. Simultaneously, Walk-Man’s legs folded and the blue lights on either side of its head went out. It looked exactly like Walk-Man had fainted.This was a Wi-Fi problem, explained Darwin Caldwell, a Northern Irish engineer working on Walk-Man out of its home base, the Italian Institute of Technology (IIT). HRP-2’s kill switch had somehow killed Walk-Man too.Caldwell, who lives in Manchester and commutes to Genoa, where the IIT and Walk-Man live, was annoyed about the snafu, though not with his competitors – despite the competition, engineers tend to lend each other tools and advice, and to blame bureaucracy for any mistakes.Caldwell’s project, which cost some $400,000 in parts alone, is primarily funded by the European Union. The Walk-Man project has been going on for four years, with goals similar to Darpa’s stated intentions of developing disaster-relief androids – though the robot itself is one of the youngest in the competition, having been around for only four months.“Particularly when you need to improvise, the environment you’re going into is a human environment, and a humanoid robot is designed to take on a human environment and we can adapt to it like humans,” Caldwell said.“If you’ve got a quadruped robot, or a robot with wheels, it’s not really designed for that environment, so it might be able to adapt. But we know humans can go in there. We know humans can do that. That’s one thing we’re certain of.”
People were queueing up to diss this Infiniti Q70. The mister was unimpressed by the dieselly pullback, especially as you pull out: “I don’t even think it’s got turbo!” he thundered. “It’s not even as good as the Passat.” My mother thought the front passenger seat way too hot, and the white ash wood dash the ugliest she’d seen.I felt oppressed by its mighty size – a 1,896kg kerb weight – and the fact that it was continually making a noise. When you reverse, when you drive near anybody, when anybody drives near you – always beeping. It’s like being attached to a heart monitor. Should you accidentally leave it in “drive” when you get out and lock it, it emits a high-pitched squeak that attracts cats. Knowing nobody would believe this, I took a picture of the cats crowded round it, which is available upon request.Put simply, and cats aside, this car is an almighty ball-ache in a city. Constant stop-starting showcases its performance where it is weakest, in the low gears. There’s a display that reveals how much CO2 you’ve saved, thanks to the automatic engine cut-off at lights: really, it just reminds you how much you’re splurging the rest of the time. The bonnet is so high and wide, you can’t see over it, and have to cross your fingers there are no cats under there.It’s a different story on the motorway – first, awesome satnav, so responsive to traffic that you can get from south London to Brighton, never meeting more than three cars in a row. The seven-speed automatic makes the top of the dial a bit too inviting, but it has intelligent cruise control with low speed following, for people with heavy feet. The steering is speed sensitive, and the regenerative braking system both improves the mpg – much better than you’d expect for a beast this size – and makes you feel a bit better, as though all that top-end Japanese technology were doing something more useful than over-warming your passenger’s behindment. The rear view camera is frankly amazing; everything inside is covered in leather, like a car auditioning for a part in an ad about an executive; the air conditioning knew what temperature I wanted to be before I did; and the eco-driving indicator lamp… well, I never did figure out what it indicated. But I liked it.In the end, though, I felt these were all bells and whistles looking for a main event: endless accessorising, and underneath it, a big, clunky car monster.Infiniti Q70Price (with options)£39,180Top speed137mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption57.6mpgCO2 emissions129g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating5/10
Congressional leaders are warning the latest major government data hack proves the Senate should hand the US government greater cybersecurity powers – even as the stalled legislation to do so would place even more consumer data into the hands of the same government that could not secure its existing information.An estimated 4 million federal employeeshad their personal data compromisedafter what was reported by authorities on Thursday to be a previously unknown software intrusion, known as a “zero day” attack, accessed networks operated by the Office of Personnel Management, the federal human resources department that houses high-level security clearances and government employee records.The latest data breach prompted calls from bipartisan leaders of the House intelligence committee for the Senate to pass the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (Cisa), the Senate counterpart of a House bill, the Protecting Cyber Networks Act, that theHouse approved in April, 307-116.Related:US threatens sanctions against culprit in hacking of federal employees' dataBut cybersecurity experts and technologists questioned the wisdom of turning over vast new amounts of private data to the government after another massive exposure of federal government data insecurity. The additional powers sought by the government are amajor legislative priority for the National Security Agency, which would gain access to new private data, particularly from financial firms, via the Department of Homeland Security.“The government must take fast, decisive measures to counter these intrusions, which emanate from hostile nation-states as well as non-state actors,” the chairman of the committee, California Republican Devin Nunes, said on Friday. “The House of Representatives has sought to strengthen our cyber defenses by approving the Protecting Cyber Networks Act, and the Senate urgently needs to pass the bill.”Lynn Westmoreland, the Georgia Republican who chairs the cybersecurity subcommittee, added: “Business and industry leaders warned us of the growing threats during various hearings, and this attack shows why the Senate needs to move quickly on a cyber bill.”On Thursday, the subcommittee’s co-chair, Democrat Adam Schiff of California, sounded a similar alarm: “The cyber threat from hackers, criminals, terrorists and state actors is one of the greatest challenges we face on a daily bases, and it’s clear that a substantial improvement in our cyber databases and defenses is perilously overdue. That’s why the House moved forward on cybersecurity legislation earlier this year, and it’s my hope that this latest incident will spur the Senate to action.”Related:Cyberwar: hacking attacks between nations are difficult to proveThe new breach, however, “undercuts the arguments for Cisa”, said Eli Dourado of the Mercatus Center at George Mason University.“We’ve been saying for months now that the federal government just sucks at cybersecurity.”The “information-sharing” bills, which have stalled in the Senate, would expand legal protections for private businesses to share threat patterns of malicious intrusions with the federal government. Privacy advocates have warned since the legislation’s introduction that the nature of cyber threats will require a substantial amount of customer and private data also being provided to the government without adequate privacy protections.Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat on the intelligence committee who voted against Cisa, said on Friday that the bill threatened American privacy.“It is unlikely that information sharing by private companies would have made any significant difference in protecting federal employee data,” Wyden said in a statement. “That’s why cybersecurity experts say that passing a bill like this will do little to reduce security breaches.“This is a bad excuse to try and pass a bad bill.”A coalition of dozens of civil-society groups and cybersecurity experts noted in an April letter that US agencies will “automatically disseminate to the NSA all cyber threat indicators they receive, including personal information about individuals” under the bill.In April, the Mercatus Center at George Mason Universitynoted in a reportthat the past year has been “the worst year for federal information security failures on record”. An estimated 67,196 actual or detected security breaches occurred in fiscal 2014, the report found.“Importantly,” the Mercatus Center found, “the agencies that would be entrusted with significant new data extraction and management responsibilities under Cisa reported alarming security breaches last year.”In the past year, the homeland security department, which leads the government’s efforts to secure its own networks, reported 1,816 “pieces of computer equipment lost or stolen”, the report found.Justice Department employees were fooled into downloading malicious software 182 times, a total dwarfed by malware downloads that occurred 370 times at the significantly larger Department of Defense, another wing of government with significant cybersecurity equities and responsibilities. Additionally, a September 2014 report from the cybersecurity firm McAfee Labs noted that such so-called “phishing” attacks areincreasing in sophistication.The prospect of unreported or undetected network breaches means the actual picture of federal cyber vulnerability is likely even more dire than the reported statistics.“Information-sharing agencies already exist. We’ve identified 20. Nobody knows how cybersecurity works but they’ve all decided that information-sharing is the answer. You’ve got to wonder if that’s really more about surveillance than about actual cybersecurity, since it doesn’t appear to be working,” Dourado said.Patrick Eddington of the libertarian Cato Institute added: “The notion that the federal government should get still more personal information from Americans as part of a misguided, centralized legislative response to cyber incidents is insane. That approach puts Americans at more, not less, risk of having their personal information compromised.”James Lewis, a cybersecurity expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, noted that private banks spend lavishly on security and still get hacked.“The ‘government’ doesn’t do any worse than companies, and in some ways they do better. US law splits the responsibility – civilian agencies are protected by DHS, national security agencies are protected by NSA. The Chinese succeeded against DHS, but not NSA,” Lewis said. Authorities suspect but have not demonstrated Chinese culpability for the newest attack.“We need to rethink this split responsibility when it comes to information sharing. It’s OK to say NSA shouldn’t play a bigger role as long as you’re willing to accept things like the OPM hack happening over and over again.”The Department of Homeland Security said in a Thursday statement that its automated system for cyber intrusions, Einstein, identified the intrusion, evidently after the data had been exfiltrated. By its nature, Einstein does not identify previously unknown “zero day” threat patterns, which is key to the contention – by the architects of the legislation themselves – that the government needs additional threat data from private firms that detect new threats.A homeland security spokesman, SY Lee, declined to elaborate on an ongoing investigation of the hack.
Digital wars are being fought in many theatres around the world – and in many forms. In the light of theSnowden revelations, citizens who guard their privacy may already feel that it has been occupied by a hostile force. But on Thursday, the Obama administration conceded that the US federal government had itself fallen victim to ahack on an unprecedented scale, with the security of the details of up to four million former and present employees apparently breached.The Chinese, who were initially considered the most likely suspects,hotly deny any responsibilityfor this data smash and grab. Nor is it immediately obvious what the perpetrators’ motives might be. It could be a fishing expedition to establish who has access to real secrets. It could be a more straightforward criminal enterprise, a prelude to identity theft. The initial hack probably happened months ago, for one of the distinguishing features of the digital age is its capacity to host the faceless along with the intimate. This is what lends a more sinister force to the familiar equation of information, truth and power. The ability to extract or insert information that may or may not be true is not new – but it is uniquely facilitated in a digital world.The phenomenon of the troll factory is a particularly egregious example of its exploitation. A troll factory is not some happy Scandinavian workshop peopled by happy elves, but a profoundly nihilistic and disturbing use of the internet. Only six weeks ago, the Guardiantracked down a building in St Petersburgand talked to some of the paid bloggers who work to establish an inoffensive online personality in the comment sections of media outlets, and on social media, and then seed their posts with pro-Putin or pro-government remarks. The Guardian has experienced this kind of organised assault on reports from Ukraine and, presumably because of implications for the Russian-hosted world cup in 2018, on corruption at Fifa.This kind of trolling is the digital offspring of earlier practices like “astroturfing”, where American corporations would organise letter-writing campaigns to local papers in order to make a lobbying initiative appear to be something that came from the grassroots. It can be an effective way to subvert opinion, and it is almost certainly more effective in the apparently intimate corners of the internet than in print. And it is not only the fact that it happens, it isthe way that it happensthat also carries a propaganda message. To be helpless in the face of lies conveys something important about the helplessness of the audience. Like watching the Olympics 100 metre final when one contestant is on an undetectable performance-enhancing drug, it is almost more demoralising to know that you cannot know what is truthful than to be certain that you are being lied to, for in the second case you can at least be confident of what is not real. The victims of phone hacking, where relationships were destroyed by the apparent betrayal of confidences, experienced the same kind of corruption that is inflicted on debate by the troll factories’ capacity to sow mistrust and foster polarisation.Given time and dedication, it is possible to fabricate entire events online, showing not just faked pictures or tweets, but the faked reactions of people watching the supposed disaster. Last yearit appears that the Russians inventeda huge explosion at a chemical plant in Louisiana this way. So the troll factories are used not merely to suppress internal dissent but as weapons against foreign powers.This is not just a matter for government in Moscow, Beijing orPyongyang. Non-state movements such as Islamic State adopt them, too. The internet is a new front in asymmetrical warfare. We’re so used to thinking of soft power as a benign weapon that it requires an effort of will and understanding to see that it can be used in entirely malign ways, domestically as well as externally. Governments need to be where people are listening. Presumably the west is out there trolling too. But the BBC World Service built its reputation with honesty and this should be the policy of any British presence on the internet. It must be out there at least trying to defend the truth without subterfuge against the lies of dictators and extremists everywhere.
A disturbing video of a screaming baby being roughly dunked in a bucket of water is at the centre of a row over internet censorship.The two-minute film appeared on Facebook and showed a woman in a kitchen, believed to be in Indonesia, repeatedly plunging a crying young baby into a vat of water while holding the child upside down and spinning it around.Facebook refused to take it down and the video spread around the world, with some people claiming it was an example of “baby yoga” – and child protection activists arguing it was straightforward abuse.“What is one person’s baby yoga in one cultural context is child abuse in another context,” said Claire Lilley, the NSPCC’s lead on child safety online.“The baby is flung about in a very violent way which could cause serious damage to its brain and its limbs. We just don’t think its appropriate for that to be so easily viewable.”The NSPCC called on the government minister responsible for internet safety, Lady Shields, to intervene to help safeguard children on social networks. Shields was formerly a vice-president at Facebook.A spokeswoman at the Department for Culture, Media and Sport said it had received a letter from the NSPCC and intended to respond.As the outrage grew, the video was taken down, possibly by the person who originally posted it, but versions of it were still available on other parts of the internet.Facebook earlier defended its decision not to censor the film, saying it did not break its rules and that to take it down would also mean the site had to ban videos of brutality during the Arab spring or depicting animal cruelty.“Like others, we find the behaviour in this video upsetting and disturbing,” said a spokesman. “We face a difficult choice: balancing people’s desire to raise awareness of behaviour like this against the disturbing nature of the video.”Facebook said it removed any reported instances of the video in posts that supported or encouraged the behaviour. Where people were “raising awareness or condemning the practice” it marked videos as disturbing, which means they have a warning screen and are accessible only to over-18s.Peter Wanless, the NSPCC chief executive, said the case raised a wider issue.“We have now reached the long overdue point where it is time for social networking sites to be held to account for the content on their sites and pay more attention to their safeguarding duties to protect children and young people, whether they are viewing the content or appearing in it,” he said.Simon Milner, director of policy at Facebook UK, said the video posed a dilemma for the network. But he said sharing such content online could help prevent abuse.“We have seen from experience that when things like that are shared on Facebook it can and does lead to the rescue of the child,” he said on BBC Radio 4’s Today programme. “We hope very much that this will happen in this case.”He added: “We absolutely take extremely seriously the safety of everybody on Facebook and particularly the most vulnerable.”Jim Killock, executive director of Open Rights Group, which campaigns to preserve openness on the internet, said: “If you ban people from showing videos where someone is doing something wrong, you stop people being able to comment and criticise.“This is very tough for Facebook and some sympathy has to be extended to them. It is completely understandable the NSPCC are upset, but setting hard and fast rules [about what to ban] will lead to arbitrary decisions.”
It is a story that is becoming all-too-familiar: the US government had toadmit on Thursdaythat one of its key personnel databases, containing the records of up to 4 million staff, had been compromised in a large-scale hacking attack. Officials speaking off the record laid the blame at China’s door, though did not immediately provide any evidence for this claim.Related:OPM hack: China blamed for massive breach at US federal agencyThe full scale of the information the attackers accessed remains unknown but could include highly sensitive data such as medical records, employment files and financial details, as well as information on security clearances and more.The Office of Personnel Management attack is merely the latest of a number of high-profile hacking attacks in the US. Within the last few months, State Department officials had to abandon their email systems for several weeks after a long-term hack was discovered, while Sony executives spent a miserable few weeks watching their internal emails get reported across the world after their own attack.Those are just a few of the hacking attacks attributed by US officials to nation states – most often China, Russia, or North Korea. But everything about such attacks is murky; finding the perpetrators is difficult if not impossible, as the architecture of the internet allows for hackers to mask their attack through unwitting users and anonymisation software.Nation states never claim responsibility – the Chinese embassy warned jumping to conclusions about the attack would be “counterproductive” – and no one has any idea of the full scale of hacking attacks, as even those that are discovered have often been going on for months with anyone noticing.Attribution to nation states often relies merely on analysing the sophistication of the attack – while lone hackers such asGary McKinnonmay have once wandered through top secret databases, such efforts now often require far more resources than even sophisticated criminal gangs can muster.The back-and-forth of hacking attacks between governments, somewhat melodramatically referred to as “cyberwar” (though they rarely, if ever, involve death), happen entirely in the shadows, with the method or reason behind any given attack hard to divine. Was this the Chinese state? A criminal gang? Or some hybrid of the two?The nature of the attacker would give some clues to the motive behind the dive into the Office of Personnel Management’s data. For criminals, the value of such a trove is obvious, with financial data aplenty and everything you would need for identity theft on a huge scale.Similar factors could motivate the Chinese state, or its intelligence agencies, but they could also benefit in more subtle ways. Personnel directories are an excellent route in to find individual targets for specific attacks. It might be tempting to think the senior managers of an agency would be the best target, but in reality it’s often the IT guy – get into his account, get the admin passwords, and you’re everywhere. Others have also suggested the hack may have been motivated by trying to find US personnel with security clearances. We will probably never know.Related:The Man with the Golden Mouse: why data security needs a James Bond | James BallIn the tangled and tortured world of espionage, even the state/criminal gang distinction can prove meaningless – intelligence agencies, including our own, target hacking groups, often not in a bid to shut them down but rather to “piggyback” onto their targets. A criminal gang might break in to steal credit card details, with no idea they’ve got an intelligence agency as an invisible passenger.Such is the quagmire faced by the people trying to protect sensitive information online – which for governments, are often the same intelligence agencies that perform the hacks against rivals.Building up defences, getting creative about looking for intruders, and trying to build up attribution for hacks are always going to be less fun and less glamorous than going on the offensive, but those are the measures likely to minimise the impact of similar hacks in future. If they are not given higher priority, Western governments are likely to face many more public embarrassments – or worse – in the near future.
Ross Ulbricht, the man convicted of running the online drug emporium Silk Road, has appealed against his conviction and sentence, according to court documents filed on Thursday.Related:Silk Road operator Ross Ulbricht sentenced to life in prisonIn February, a jury in a federal court in Manhattan found Ulbricht, who went by the alias “Dread Pirate Roberts”, guilty on seven counts related to the drug marketplace, including running a narcotics-trafficking enterprise, money laundering and computer hacking.Before sentencing, Ulbricht wrote a letter to Judge Katherine Forrest begging her to “leave a light at the end of the tunnel” in sentencing and “leave me my old age”.But Forrest handed down the harshest sentences possible for Ulbricht – one for 20 years, one for five years, one for 15 years and two for life, to be served concurrently with no possibility of parole.A separate case, in which Ulbricht is accused of trying to procure a murder-for-hire, is still pending in a court in Maryland.Lawyers for Ulbricht toldBusiness Insiderthat the fact that they only learned a month before going to trial that two of the FBI officers investigating Silk Road were being charged with corruption and money laundering themselves would be “one of the key issues we raise on appeal”.
Pullblox was a deceptively simple puzzle game for Nintendo’s handheld 3DS, its plump little hero walking up to irregularly shaped blocks and either pulling them forwards or pushing them backwards in order to form stairs towards a flag perched at the top of each puzzle. Fullblox sticks with this formula, but adds the ability to stretch blocks sideways, along with enemies who can harm you but can also be hopped on and used as moving step ladders to reach otherwise inaccessible blocks. In typical Nintendo style, it’s polished to perfection, wringing astounding ingenuity from a simple premise and dressing it all up in charming, childlike trappings. Its introductory portion is free, and packs of new levels range from £2.69 to £4.49, with the whole game available for a very reasonable £8.99. Along with levels made by Nintendo, which include one nostalgic tranche based on characters and settings from its ancient back catalogue, you can also use the Fullblox Studio to build your own puzzles and play other people’s, a feature that’s unlocked as soon as you’ve spent any money. Cheerful, fun and incredibly taxing, Fullblox is a solidly constructed and subtle set of challenges.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKEther One, PS4Ether One.Set partly in Cornwall and partly in the futuristic Ether Institute, this is a game about helping a woman with dementia by diving into her fractured memories. Played in first person, you glide around its sterile, people-free environments in search of clues and useful-looking items. With no preamble and only a strangely listless-sounding voiceover from your manager at the institute, you’re dumped into a mystery that takes quite some piecing together as you work to solve puzzles that vary between simple and wildly abstruse. With no guidance whatsoever, you’ll often be left wandering about trying to figure out what on earth you’ve missed, leaving you tending towards kleptomania, storing virtually everything that’s not nailed down in the central “case room” to which you can teleport at will. Pleasantly atmospheric and fascinating in its overarching premise, its distinctly indie-grade production values and resolute refusal to provide nudges in the right direction can also make it extremely frustrating.White Paper Games, £14.99Atlantic Fleet, Android &amp; iOSAtlantic FleetAtlantic Fleet puts you in command of either the Royal Navy or German Kriegsmarine in the second world war’s Atlantic campaign. Like 2012’s Pacific Fleet, you take turns setting ships’ speed and course before aiming and firing guns and torpedoes, then keeping your fingers tightly crossed as your enemy does the same. Battles require tactical cunning as well as accurate targeting, exploiting ships’ strengths while allowing for their weaknesses: submarines are slow yet lethal, while aircraft carriers let you unleash a fleet of bombers but are so big and fragile that they need constant shepherding. Its Battle Of The Atlantic mode adds the further dimension of managing the overall war effort, with sunken ships lost forever and scarce ammunition supplies a continual worry. You’ll need superhuman persistence to find all that out, however: there’s no tutorial and only a few static help screens to explain this complex and detailed simulation. It takes serious dedication to master all the tactics you need to keep these ships afloat.Killerfish Games, £7.99
It is undoubtedly good news. The Strong museum of Play in Rochester, New York, has opened aWorld Video Game Hall of Fameto celebrate titles that have had a huge impact on the medium.The six initial inductees are clearly deserving of their inclusion. Pong, Pac-Man, Tetris, Super Mario Bros., Doom and World of Warcraft have all made monumental contributions to games as an artform and as an entertainment medium.They are also extremely familiar. Whenever the history of gaming is raked over, these are the legends that usually figure (although Space Invaders is notable for its absence – even though it was among the15 finalistsfrom which the final selection was drawn).So here are six vital games that we suspect will never be accepted into this hallowed company, or any similar celebration of pixelated history. Add your own in the comments section ...Bushido Blade (Square/LightWeight, 1997)Bushido Blade – unforgiving sword fighting where one stab could result in death.LightWeight’s uncompromising fighting game did what few other Street Fighter or Tekken wannabes did: recognise that getting stabbed with a sword is pretty catastrophic. As a result, most strikes are fatal, while glancing blows to the arms and legs leave your opponent significantly handicapped. Although this severity was something of a dead-end for the genre, it influenced plenty of game designers to explore the concept of positional damage, enriching digital combat forever.Cybernator (Konami, 1992)Developed by Nippon Computer Systems for the Nintendo SNES, this 2D side-scrolling blaster perfected a number of mechanics and systems that would become staples of the shooting genre. It seamlessly hybridised weapons and melee combat, and brought in platforming elements – and all of this was enhanced by the superbly intuitive mech controls. The likes of Contra III, Guardian Heroes and Metal Slug get all the glory, but this cult gem was up there with them.Girl’s Garden (Sega, 1984)Released on Sega’s first ever home console, the SG-1000, Girl’s Garden revolves around a young girl who must risk her life collecting flowers to impress her indifferent boyfriend. It’s either a chauvinist fantasy or a commentary on unequal teenage relationships, but it’s also a very early example of the dating sim genre, and the first project from programmer Yuji Naka who would go on to make Sonic the Hedgehog. The whimsical visuals are beautiful too, hinting at the delights to come from games like Harvest Moon and Animal Crossing.Military Madness (Hudson Soft, 1989)Military Madness – early real-time strategy from the much-loved PC Engine console.Although Dune II is often credited with creating the real-time strategy genre, it had numerous groundbreaking predecessors including acknowledged Mega Drive hit Herzog Zwei and this slightly lessor known sci-fi effort from the PC Engine console. Players compete in turn-based battles against enemy vehicles which can be captured and re-purposed. As influential as most of its better known contemporaries in this space.Zzoom (Imagine, 1983)Before first-person shooters dominated the gaming landscape, very early titles toyed with the same camera perspective with varying degrees of success. This early flight combat shooter from Imagine gave players control over a targeting reticule shooting at planes, warships and tanks to protect civilian refugees. It was simple but compulsive, and a key title from one of the studios that would dominate the home computer scene of the 80s.Enchanted Scepters (Silicon Beach Software, 1984)Enchanted Scepters – monochrome desktop adventuring on the Apple Mac.The phrase “point-and-click adventure” tends to conjure up memories of the classic LucasArts and Sierra titles like Secret of Monkey Island and Space Quest IV. But they were proceeded by several formative titles, including this fantasy puzzler that let you use the Apple Mac mouse to click on and investigate objects. Earlier titles, including 1983 Japanese oddity Planet Mephius, laid down some of the gameplay elements, but it was Enchanted Scepters that made playing a game feel as natural as browsing a windows desktop.Thanks to Joao Sanches for his help compiling these games
Miming into a hairbrush, reeling off favourite quotes from films, and covering internet catchphrases – all a lot easier since the arrival of lip-syncing app,Dubsmash.The mobile app allows users to take videos either of themselves or others miming to pre-recorded audio clips. Film, music and internet snippets are popular, but users are also able to upload more personal clips.Since launching in November 2014, the app has exploded in popularity around the globe – downloaded more than 50 million times acrossiOSandAndroid, Dubsmash has users in 192 countries and many different languages are used.Interesting. Tell me more about how it worksIt’s very simple. Dubsmash operates three main channels: Trending, Discover and My Sounds. All channels are pretty self-explanatory, but the key UI element is the sound categories on the “soundboard” (created by users).Editor of The Guide,Paul MacInnes, performs a dub of Drake’sHold On, We’re Going Homein the Guardian office.Currently there are more than 40 categories, including: Popular Vines, Awards Season 2015, Saturday Night Live, Chick Flicks and Politicians. Clips featured include musicians such asDrake, or famous films such asZoolander, as well as commentary from sporting events.There is also a search function for users looking for specific sounds. Users can upload their own sounds in My Sounds, and there is a favourite function to bookmark certain clips.Once a user has chosen their sound, it’s as easy as miming into either the front-facing camera, or recording others. Users are able to add colour filters to their videos (known as dubs) and text annotation.Previous dubs are stored in a My Dubs tab. Users are able to share their dubs via external messaging applications, includingWhatsAppandFacebook Messenger.Dubsmash does not have cloud storage itself for dubs (just the audio clips), which will keep costs down. But it’s possible to save dubs to phone-camera rolls, and to reupload to, for instance,InstagramorVine. Depending on the functions of those apps, more filters or special effects can be added.Who uses it?Sign up, which is via email address, is a prerequisite to using the app. Users will then be asked to create a username, password and to enter their date of birth as the minimum age is 14.The app has hit the number one spot in 29 countries, such as Holland and the UK. It has a current rating of four-and-a-half stars out of five onApple’s app storeand four onGoogle Play.BBC Trending reportsthat many users are kids and teens. The app has also proven popular with celebrities.Jennifer Lopez,Cara Delevingne,Lena Dunham,Hugh JackmanandRihannahave all uploaded dubs to Instagram (see below). Rihanna evenpremiered a preview of her singleBitch Better Have My Money on the app.Dubsmash is also a hit with celebrities in India, withBollywood stars and badminton playersgetting in on the act. More unusual dubs have been recorded by aSwiss military unitand, er, aTawny owl.Instagram returns more than 2 million results for #dubsmash, and compilations are often uploaded toYouTube. Websites collating the best dubs have also been set up:topdubsmash.com,bestdubsmash.net,bestdubsmash.tumblr.com.Who is behind the app?Dubsmash is the creation of German developers Jonas Drüppel, Roland Grenke and Daniel Taschik, and produced by their Berlin-based companyMobile Motion GmbH(founded 2013). It’s the trio’s third attempt, however, at creating a smash app.Previous attempts included Starlize, a music video app. When that didn’t set app stores alight, the company decided to focus on something simpler that lent itself to more private sharing.Users upload audio clips and create categories on a ‘soundboard’.Photograph: Dubsmash/Google Play“[Starlize was] similar to Dubsmash in the sense that it also used user-generated videos and external sounds. But we had the feeling that it was too complex for most users,” explained Grenke in aTechCrunch interview.Dubsmash, by contrast, has a much cleaner user interface and simpler UX (user experience) – hence its popularity.Hmm. Surely this is dodgy when it comes to copyright?Yes, it’s an issue. Or could be. Most of the clips are unlicensed – film clips, song segments, audio from other people’s content. Dubsmash’s line is that problems have not yet been encountered, but that should they arise in the future, the app would work on the basis of “take down notices” to remove content that copyright holders object to.It might be the case, however, that license holders choose to work with the app in an attempt to monetise. There’s alsonuance to the law, there could be a difference in the rules when it comes to sharing copyrighted content privately (as in via WhatsApp message), and publishing it to a public platform (such as Instagram).Of course, copyright content isn’t the whole of Dubsmash, so even if copyright became a larger issue in future, users would still be able to create dubs with animal noises or their own uploaded sounds.What is Dubsmash 2?Dubsmash 2 was asockpuppet appon Android, purporting to be a sequel to the original app, which actually turned out to be malware bombarding users with porn. Dubsmash 2 has been removed from the Google Play store but is still around in other guises, so be careful.•Snapchat gets more musical with update adding audio to people’s snaps
The FBI has again waded into the debate around encryption, with the bureau’s assistant director of counterterrorism telling the US congress that tech companies should “prevent encryption above all else”.Michael Steinbach, speaking at a hearing before the House Homeland Security Committee, explained how the the FBI uses technology to track and intercept supporters of Isis in the Middle East and elsewhere.When Isis supporters communicate using social media, it’s easy for law enforcement to intercept: in one recent incident,the USAF boastedof “a post on social media to bombs on target in less than 24 hours”.But when the communication is done through encrypted channels, rather than in public, the FBI and others have a much harder time intercepting it. That led Steinbach to appeal to the companies building encryption products.“There are 200-plus social media companies. Some of these companies build their business model around end-to-end encryption,” Steinbach said.“When a company, a communications company or a ISP or social media company elects to build in its software encryption, end-to-end encryption, and leaves no ability for even the company to access that, we don’t have the means by which to see the content”, he added.“When we intercept it, we intercept encrypted communications. So that’s the challenge: working with those companies to build technological solutions to prevent encryption above all else.“We are striving to ensure appropriate, lawful collection remains available.”Steinbach insisted that he wasn’t asking for a “back door” to be built into encryption products, telling legislators that “we’re not looking at going through a back door or being nefarious.”But security experts have long argued that the nature of encryption is such that there can be no middle ground between encryption which is unbreakable to all, including law enforcement, or encryption which contains some sort of flaw that can be used by anyone who knows of its existence, whether or not they are law enforcement.An increasing number of communications products have “end-to-end” encryption, meaning even the company that produces the software can’t break the encryption on messages sent between its customers. Apple’s iMessage network and Facebook’s WhatsApp both use end-to-end encryption, for instance, whileGoogle’s competing Hangouts product does not.Steinbach’s comments echo those of his boss, FBI director James Comey, who in March asked Congress to pass a law that would force tech firms to create a backdoor in any tool that uses encryption.“Tech execs say privacy should be the paramount virtue,” Comey said then, “When I hear that I close my eyes and say try to image what the world looks like where paedophiles can’t be seen, kidnapper can’t be seen, drug dealers can’t be seen.”“To have a zone of privacy that’s outside the reach of law is very concerning,” Comey added.In May, Apple, Google and other tech firmswrote an open letterto the Obama administration urging it to preserve strong encryption against pressure from agencies like the FBI.The letter argued that “strong encryption is the cornerstone of the modern information economy’s security,” and that the government should “fully support and not undermine efforts to create encryption standards [nor] in any way subvert, undermine, weaken or make vulnerable” commercial software.
Facebook’s new app for Android has all the features of its full app, but is faster, smaller and lighter on data.The Facebook Lite app is designed for use in developing countries where mobile data services can be spotty, slow and with low-bandwidth.Full, data-hungry apps such as the standard Facebook Android app with its auto-playing videos and image-rich News Feed are difficult to use in any situation where mobile data is poor.Facebook’s first attempt at making a lighter variant of its service was Facebook Zero – a stripped-down website that the social network partnered with mobile phone networks in some countries.AFacebook Lite websitewas also created for a similar purpose, but has now graduated into app form, which enables a richer experience and potentially lower data use as assets such as logos and buttons can be stored locally in the app.The new app will be less than 1MB in size, and includes the News Feed, status updates, photos, notifications and other bits and pieces familiar to users of the social network.Facebook Lite is rolling out in countries across Asia and will be arriving in parts of Latin America, Africa and Europe over the next few weeks.Considering that many parts of Britain and the US struggle with poor data connections, especially in densely populated cities and rural areas with weak signal, a lighter, more streamlined Facebook app that works when all others don’t could make it a very attractive prospect.Facebook did not confirm whether the app would be available in UK stores, however.• Facebook algorithms no match for users’ own decisions on feeds, study finds
“This is the way the world endsThis is the way the world endsThis is the way the world endsNot with a bang but a whimper.”TS Eliot, The Hollow MenFrom this craggy ledge above the Harad Basin, I can see for miles across the rugged countryside. I see Uruk guards menacing human slaves while others gather in small groups, bitching about their captains; I see caragors stalking through the wavering grasses. This is Middle Earth: Shadow of Mordor and I have completed 98% of the game. The story is over, I won’t see the scarred wraith of Celebrimbor again, I won’t have to face Sauron’s murderous henchman, Black Hand, or his talons. Now it is just me against an infinite army of regenerating grunts and the last few hunting quests. I can slaughter foot-soldiers or I can chase bats around the dank cavern systems. All the game has left is endless skirmishes and to do lists.Although the design of open-world games has significantly evolved since the genre emerged at the close of the 1990s, there is still a strange disconnect between narrative and freedom. In a vast majority of titles, we’re shown a vast explorable landscape, which we can roam at will – but laid on top of that is the authored story, with its dramatic choreographed missions and cinematic sequences. Once these are over, it often feels like the author has withdrawn; suddenly, the developer, and by extension the world they have created, no longer cares about the player. Suddenly, you’re on your own.Some players revel in this. In hisarticle on open-worlds and lonelinessfor KillScreen last year, David Wolinsky, talked about how games like Shenmue only ever create theillusionof a functioning environment – what they are, in fact, are vast neutral spaces for the participant to invent their own fun. The solitudeisthe experience – it’s where you discover the game you always wanted to play but didn’t realise it. This is the world so beloved of YouTube circus performers who take titles like Crackdown and Grand Theft Auto and turn them into vast and astonishing stunt shows. To them, the world is just a backdrop to their own creative genius. Which is wonderful.But what if you’re so engaged with the fiction of the world, you feel bereft when the narrative is over and the author has signed off? Red Dead Redemption made such a huge impact on a lot of players with its elegiac tale of revenge and remorse – and so being cast back into the world after the story ending is a weird jolt to the senses. Like many other open-world games, Rockstar loads its landscapes with dynamic quests and fetch tasks to provide the player with things to do while they explore, and little accomplishments to tick off. But it is while carrying out these shopping trips that you realise how disconnected you are from the world. The richly evocative scenes painted by the Assassin’s Creed artists, begin to seem pale and lifeless when you realise you’re just hunting for objects amid crowds of people you can never interact with.Open-world games are systems of course, and every component has its limited role. But are there ways to make it feel like there is still someone watching? Watch Dogs lets you snoop on the lives of passing strangers, picking up quests from their troubled back stories. Skyrim’s Radiant system creates slightly more complex dynamic quests which react to specific player inventories and abilities, which at least gives the illusion of presence and agency in the world. But the outcome is a lot of very similar object retrieval tasks. Non-player characters assume their roles as information automatons, points are awarded. Then you’re alone again.And suddenly you realise the conjuring trick of the open-world universe: you’re not really a part of it. You’re outside of the system. You’re an interloper. The fish out of water. It’s such a familiar building block of narrative fiction and cinema – the character who finds themselves in a bizarre alien society, and by the end the journey has changed both the protagonist and the world itself. But in sandbox games, the world hasn’t changed and the protagonist is still there. It’s like being caught forever at the end of the second act.The problem with freedom is that it can be awfully lonely. All influences in our real lives attempt to act on us, for good or bad. When authorial intent is removed from the game world, we lose the one thing that bothered to check what we were doing. Of course, this is a fascinating prospect in a lot of ways – which is why we love post-apocalyptic fiction: it is about the ultimate form of freedom – but when there is not enough true, tactile interaction with the world, the appeal quickly fades.I guess the answer will be better AI and new emergent forms of story-telling. Non-player characters will need to become improvisers rather than robots. We’ll need very intelligent, very creative systems that can build stories out of the components of the world. We’re seeing amazing work in this direction, namely theVersu interactive story platformfrom Richard Evans and Emily Short, which creates intelligent characters with their own motives and emotional systems; there’s Mark Riedl’s work at the Georgia Institute of Technology, which is looking into automated story generation, specifically with itsScheherazadesystem; there is Michael Cook working on the game-creating AI,Angelina.Maybe one day we will have open-world games that can combine intelligent non-player characters with their own dark plans and ambitions, with a procedurally generated story-system. Perhaps this world will watch how every player completes the authored missions, and will use this practical information to devise new plotlines that feel human and dramatic.For now, here is Mordor, stretching out before me, vast and soulless like a dead planet. The urok will never offer anything new or surprising, just as the pedestrians wandering the streets of Los Santos cannot suddenly get the idea to rob a bank or kidnap a rich, spoiled actor. A plague will never sweep the streets of Assassin’s Creed: Unity, allowing sinister new clans to emerge from the festering alleyways. It is asking a lot for this to change, maybe too much. Perhaps it’s just part of open-world games – perhaps we need that switch from being looked after by a story to being left alone to realise our own motivations.Philip Larkin wrote: “Life is first boredom, then fear”. Sandbox games are the other way around. Unless, that is, you reassess the place and learn how to interrogate and subvert its endless systems. Either that or you just accept your lot and wander the landscape; you haunt the places where story missions once took place, amid the ghosts of long-fnished shoot-outs and vanquished boss encounters. Maybe this is what winning feels like.
A pan-European drive to use the financial system to fight online child abuse has succeeded in reducing sales of child abuse material using conventional payment systems – but research suggests that abusers have been driven underground, turning to anonymiser technologies to evade law enforcement, and bitcoin to pay for material.Experts from the European Financial Coalition Against Commercial Sexual Exploitation Online (EFC) report that images and videos of child abuse have become a currency in their own right, with abusers expected to provide new material in exchange for access.The fight against online child abuse is also struggling in the face of increased use of live-streaming to share video of abuse. Live-streamed material is more difficult to discover once the stream has ended, and requires rapid action from law enforcement authorities to combat.“Rather than a success, the phenomenon is getting harder to tackle, with all this material going underground”, says Tania Anguelova, the EFC’s project officer.“It is getting harder and harder to find this material in the open web … and more and more challenging to identify the offenders,” she added.The EFC, which includes tech firms such as Microsoft and Google, financial companies including Visa and Mastercard, and child protection organisations including INHOPE and the International Centre for Missing and Exploited children, was formed in 2012 with the aim of cracking down on people who exploit children for money.Its report, the first since 2013, finds that conventional payment systems are declining in popularity. They were used in a little under 10% of the 5,236 URLs suspected of commercial distribution of child abuse material that were catalogued over 2013.Of those, 266 accepted payment through money transfer services, 135 through credit card companies and 102 through digital wallet operators. The British anti-abuse Internet Watch Foundation suggest that SMS payments are also being used.“A proactive approach by reputable companies, a number of regulations, compliance programmes and preventative work appear to have been effective in reducing the number of sites able to process payments,” the EFC report concludes.But commercial abusers have moved to other payment methods in order to continue operating. Much of the evidence is still anecdotal, notes the report, but law enforcement and financial experts have expressed concern that commercial exploitation of child abuse material is “moving to a new unregulated, unbanked digital economy”.It cites IWF researchthat found 22 sites exclusively taking bitcoin in exchange for child abuse material in 2014, and 37 accepting it overall. The organisation first discovered bitcoin being taken for child abuse materialback in June 2013.Some organisations have also turned to using child abuse material as currency. “A worrying phenomenon is the fact that the new material is sometimes considered a currency itself. And this is another big phenomenon which we need to find a way to tackle properly,” said Anguelova.The other major technological trend cited by the coalition is the rise in the live-streaming of child abuse for payment. “[It] is no longer an emerging trend but an established reality. It is of particular concern in the context of emerging markets due to internet adoption there,” the report states.A recent operation led by the National Crime Agency in the UK resulted in a paedophile ring, which streamed live sexual abuse of children as young as six, being dismantled, says the EFC paper. In some cases the victims’ parents were involved.“Fifteen victims in the Philippines aged between six and 15 were rescued, 29 people were arrested, including 11 in the Philippines. 12 countries were involved in the arrest of individuals who had been paying for the live abuse of children.“Over £37,500 was identified as having been paid for the live abuse of children by the customer network. Three other ongoing investigations have identified 733 suspects.”Dismantling such rings is difficult, because the real-time monitoring of streams is legally and technically challenging, with users adopting layers of anonymity and many broadcasts password-protected.As a result, the best approach as identified by the report is using the financial system to identify suspicious transactions in order to follow the money back to the abuser, and prioritising the identification of individuals who have access to children.
Facebook’s native video features have the potential to “eclipse” YouTube according to the boss of multi-channel network Fullscreen – but only if the social network tackles the issue of videos being uploaded without the permission of their creators.Fullscreen is one of the MCNs that has built a big audience on YouTube, with its network of 70,000 channels accumulating more than 635 million subscribers.In a tweetstorm,chief executive George Strompolosclaimed some of his network’s most popular videos are being “ripped” and uploaded to Facebook without Fullscreen’s authorisation.“I love FB video but getting very tired of seeing our videos ripped there with no way to monitor or monetize. Remember that YT was sued by Viacom for over $1BN for this,” he wrote, referring tothe landmark copyright case that was settled in 2014.Related:Facebook 'excited' about ads potential as it reaches 4bn daily video views“I now regularly see our videos with 50MM+ view counts that are stolen by individuals on FB... sometimes by other media cos,” continued Strompolos.“It costs us a lot to hunt them down one by one. I’m a huge DMCA proponent, but this has to improve fast. Frankly I’m shocked that a rights holder with deep pockets has not sued yet.”Strompolos added that he would like to see Facebook develop a similar system to YouTube’s Content ID feature, which alerts rightsholders when their content has been uploaded by YouTube users (or, in the case of music, been used as the soundtrack for a video) so they can choose to take it down, leave it be or make money from advertising around it.“YT’s content ID system is the right idea for FB, but it requires monetization (claiming) to keep content from being removed all the time,” wrote Strompolos. “YT spent a lot of time and money building the content ID system and it is the primary reason the site wasn’t sued into oblivion.”According to Facebook’s latest figures, the social network isseeing more than 4bn daily views of videos uploaded directly to its site– up from 1bn daily views a year ago. The company is keen for popular YouTubers and their MCNs to experiment with direct uploads.Strompolos ended his tweetstorm on a more positive note regarding Facebook’s potential. “I think FB video can truly eclipse YT over time with search, widespread embeds, a dedicated app, monetization and content ID,” he wrote, before later adding that his earlier criticism was intended as “constructive”.1) I love FB video but getting very tired of seeing our videos ripped there with no way to monitor or monetize:http://t.co/UFhN71oIXD&mdash; George Strompolos (@gstrompolos)June 4, 20152) Remember that YT was sued by Viacom for over $1BN for this&mdash; George Strompolos (@gstrompolos)June 4, 20153) I now regularly see our videos with 50MM+ view counts that are stolen by individuals on FB... sometimes by other media cos&mdash; George Strompolos (@gstrompolos)June 4, 20154) It costs us a lot to hunt them down one by one. I&#39;m a huge DMCA proponent, but this has to improve fast.&mdash; George Strompolos (@gstrompolos)June 4, 20155) Frankly I&#39;m shocked that a rights holder with deep pockets has not sued yet&mdash; George Strompolos (@gstrompolos)June 4, 20156) YT&#39;s content ID system is the right idea for FB, but it requires monetization (claiming) to keep content from being removed all the time&mdash; George Strompolos (@gstrompolos)June 4, 20157) YT spent a lot of time and money building the content ID system and it is the primary reason the site wasn&#39;t sued into oblivion&mdash; George Strompolos (@gstrompolos)June 4, 20158) I think FB video can truly eclipse YT over time with search, widespread embeds, a dedicated app, monetization and content ID&mdash; George Strompolos (@gstrompolos)June 4, 2015
The Obama administration is scrambling to assess the impact of a massive data breach involving the agency that handles security clearances and US government employee records, with suspicion quickly falling on China, which has been accused of carrying out cyber-espionage against the US in the past.Government officials familiar with the situation told the Associated Press the hack occurred at the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and the Interior Department, and could potentially affect four million people at every federal agency.The OPM is the human resources department for the federal government and does checks for security clearances.A US law enforcement source told the Reuters news agency on Thursday night that a “foreign entity or government” was believed to be behind the attack. Authorities were looking into a possible Chinese connection, the news agency said, quoting a source close to the matter.Chinese officials issued swift denials, with foreign ministry spokesman Hong Lei branding the accusations irresponsible and unscientific at a news briefing on Friday. “We know that hacker attacks are conducted anonymously, across nations, and that it is hard to track the source,” Hong said. “It’s irresponsible and unscientific to make conjectural, trumped-up allegations without deep investigation.”“The FBI is conducting an investigation to identify how and why this occurred,” the department of homeland security said in a statement on Thursday. “DHS is continuing to monitor federal networks for any suspicious activity and is working aggressively with the affected agencies to conduct investigative analysis to assess the extent of this alleged intrusion.”Reports in theNew York TimesandWashington Poston Thursday, both citing unnamed sources in the federal government, reported Chinese hackers were behind the breach.Senator Susan Collins, a Maine Republican, said the hackers were believed to be based in China.Collins, a member of the Senate intelligence committee, said the breach was “yet another indication of a foreign power probing successfully and focusing on what appears to be data that would identify people with security clearances”.The Chinese embassy in Washington responded that jumping to conclusions was “not responsible” and “counterproductive”.Embassy spokesman Zhu Haiquan said China had made great efforts to combat cyberattacks and that tracking such events conducted across borders was difficult.A Pentagon report in April said hackers associated with the Chinese government repeatedly targeted US military networks seeking intelligence during 2014.US Representative Adam Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the House select intelligence committee, said: “The last few months have seen a series of massive data breaches that have affected millions of Americans.He called the latest intrusion “among the most shocking because Americans may expect that federal computer networks are maintained with state-of-the-art defences”.“It’s clear that a substantial improvement in our cyber databases and defences is perilously overdue,” Schiff said.Senate intelligence committee chairman Richard Burr said the government must overhaul its cybersecurity defenses. “Our response to these attacks can no longer simply be notifying people after their personal information has been stolen,” he said. “We must start to prevent these breaches in the first place.”The largest federal employee union, the AFGE, said it would “demand accountability”. The union’s president, J David Cox, said it was working with the administration to ensure measures were taken to secure the personal information of affected employees.In November a former DHS contractor disclosed another cyber-breach that compromised the private files of more than 25,000 DHS workers and thousands of other federal employees.DHS said its intrusion detection system, known as Einstein, which screens federal internet traffic to identify potential cyber threats, identified the hack of OPM’s systems and the Interior Department’s data centre, which is shared by other federal agencies.“DHS is continuing to monitor federal networks for any suspicious activity and is working aggressively with the affected agencies to conduct investigative analysis to assess the extent of this alleged intrusion,” the statement said.Members of Congress were briefed on the breach on Thursday.The hack follows an attack on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that compromised the details of 100,000 taxpayers. On Wednesday the IRS commissioner John Koskinen appeared before a Senate committee andblamed the attackon underfunding and the agency’s inability to keep up with increasingly sophisticated threats.“This incident provides a stark reminder that even security controls that may have been adequate in the past can be overcome by hackers, who are anonymous, persistent and have access to vast amounts of personal data and knowledge,” J Russell George, treasury inspector general for tax administration, told the Senate finance committee.Ken Ammon, chief strategy officer at Xceedium, a government security contractor that specialises in securing privileged access to systems, said: “What we are seeing across the board is a particular weakness in our defence systems.”Ammon said sophisticated hacking operations funded by nation states were targeting system administrators and gaining access to massive amounts of data. “What you want to be able to do is cut your loses, make sure the attack is isolated to that particular individual and not the terabytes of information stored on the servers.”In April Barack Obama responded to a growing rash of attacks aimed at US computer networks by launching a sanctions program to target individuals and groups outside the United States that use cyber attacks to threaten US foreign policy, national security or economic stability.The move followed indictments of five Chinese military officers who were charged with economic espionage. US officials also pointed the finger directly at North Korea for a high-profile attack on Sony over a film spoof depicting the assassination of North Korea’s leader.China has routinely denied accusations by US investigators that hackers backed by the Chinese government have been behind attacks on US companies and federal agencies.Obama has moved cybersecurity toward the top of his 2015 agenda after recent breaches and the White House says he raises the issue in meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping. US military officials have become increasingly vocal about cyber espionage and attacks launched by China, Russia and others.In unveiling an updated cyber strategy in May, the US defense secretary, Ash Carter, singled out threats from Russia, China, Iran and North Korea and stressed the military’s ability to retaliate with cyber weapons.The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report
It’s Friday, comments are actually switched on, so let’s chat!
Two of the technology startups trying to shake up the live music and ticketing market – Songkick and CrowdSurge – are merging.The new company will keep the Songkick brand, with the merger accompanied by a $16m funding round from venture capital firms Index Ventures, Sequoia Capital and Access Ventures – the latter also owns major label Warner Music Group, and is a major investor in streaming music service Deezer.New Songkick will continue old Songkick’s service that maintains a database of live-music concerts, and notifies fans of artists when new gigs are announced and tickets go on sale. In recent years, the company has also started selling tickets in the UK.CrowdSurge, meanwhile, has built a business around helping musicians sell tickets directly to their fans, with more than 500 clients including Paul McCartney, Ellie Goulding, Childish Gambino, John Legend and Kenny Chesney.“The combined company will help artists sell more tickets directly to their fans and fix the central problem at the heart of the concert industry - that 50% of tickets go unsold,” claimed Songkick in a blog post as the merger was announced.Related:Songkick hits 10 million users and generates $100m in ticket revenueThe company claims to have 10 million unique visitors to its website and app every month – a number that has not increased sinceMay 2014– while the new entity claims to have sold tickets to more than 10,000 events a year.According to Hogarth, combining forces will help Songkick expand its ticketing business into the US, where many venues have exclusive deals with large ticketing providers like Ticketmaster – a subsidiary of Live Nation Entertainment – but where CrowdSurge has found a way in through the “artist allocations” of tickets assigned for artists to sell directly to fans.“We faced the question at Songkick of whether we were going to spend the next three years replicating everything CrowdSurge had done, or whether we were going to join forces. It made so much sense to come together,” said Hogarth.
