The Guardian will start charging for some content (such as crosswords) at the end of this month, as Guardian Unlimited editor Emily Bell explainshere. The main site will remain free. The Register reports the move and provides a run-down of the charges for other UK-based broadsheet newspapershere.
If you were here earlier, you might notice a couple of posts that were made many hours earlier but never appeared. Well, I spent the day at the Rural and Regional Broadband Conference in London, where I was pleased to find there was a Wi-Fi network. It was set up so you could browse the Web, but you couldn't send POP3 e-mail and you couldn't blog -- or at least, not with Blogger.The Registerhas reported the conference.
Pelham Sloane, a new British computer company, will announce its first product in the US and the UK tomorrow. It is entering the all-in-one PC market, where many large companies have failed to make much of an impact, and even more small ones have made no impact at all. I had a brief look at its PS1500 for tomorrow's Online....
Microsoft turned thousands of its employees into multimillionaires by giving them options to buy shares that rapidly increased in value. After the US government anti-trust action, however, Microsoft shares went down (followed soon after by the whole stockmarket) so this doesn't work any more: who wants the option to buy shares for more than they are worth? Microsoft now plans to give employees shares instead of options, but the cost of the shares will appear in the books, knocking a couple of billion a year off Microsoft's profits.APexplains....
A growing number of the over 60s are online and using the internet on a regular basis, new research reveals today.The so-called silver surfers now represent 12% of internet users in the UK with 37% of 60 to 64-year-olds now online at home.The survey, by the Claritas UK consumer research group, found that the numbers decrease with age - 29% of 65 to 69-year-olds falling to 21% of 70 to 74-year-olds are online at home - but, overall, a quarter of those aged 60 or older use the net.Favourite activities for those in the age group are sending emails and collecting information, which 9.2% and 6.9% of all surveyed 60-year-olds and above (including those not online) said they used they internet for.Next most popular are booking holidays (2.4%), buying books and CDs (2%) and making bookings for cinemas and hotels (1.8%). Bottom of the list come buying groceries (0.4%), buying clothes (0.6%) and playing interactive games (0.8%).The survey also revealed a higher level of computer ownership (50%) among the 60-64 age group than among the 18 to 30 year olds (46%).Peter Groves, one of three over 60s today guest-editing Guardian Unlimited, who as a volunteer offers one-on-one computer taster sessions for Age Concern in Solihul, said there was a strong demand among older people for internet training, especially those in their 70s who may not have used computers at work.He said the hour-long sessions - five daily five days a week - were booked up six to eight weeks in advance and around half of those who attended the course of six sessions went on to buy a computer, while the others used internet access points in public libraries.But the numbers of over-60s who have home internet access, a mobile phone or PC is not evenly spread across the country, according to the survey.The highest take up is in the south-east, Guildford (46.2%), Surrey, and Watford (43.9%) and Hemel Hempstead (43.8%), both Hertfordshire, in the top three places while the bottom five belong to Newcastle (29.8%), Glasgow (29.5%), Dundee (29.4%), Motherwell (28.7%) and east London (26.1%).Increasing use of the internet among the over 60s tallies with national trends. Nearly half of all British homes now have internet access, according to government figures published yesterday.A total of 11.7m households, or 47%, had access to the internet in the first quarter of this year, up from 27% percent in the same period of 2000, the Office for National Statistics said.
Having already shelled out £25m to secure the services of David Beckham from Manchester United, Real Madrid could be forced into another expensive tussle for the websites relating to their newest signing.The Spanish club readily admitted that Beckham's global marketing pull was one of the reasons it shelled out the huge fee for the England captain.But within minutes of last week's announcement that the player would wear the 23 shirt, online speculators went into overdrive to register all websites connected to the player and the number.The much-anticipated unveiling came last Wednesday, when Beckham was officially paraded in a Real Madrid shirt in front of hundreds of the world's media.New research shows that within minutes of the announcement, an individual based in the UK had registered Beckham23.com, Becks23.com and Becks23.co.uk.Over the past two months alone, as rumours of Beckham's imminent departure started to pick up steam, 75 different domain names based on derivatives of Beckham have been registered, including BeckhamatRealMadrid.com and BecksinSpain.com.Real Madrid executives hope that Beckham's appeal in the Far East will help them extend their brand into new territories, but internet experts believe they may have missed a trick in failing to register the player on the web."David Beckham is an extremely powerful and valuable brand, as widely acknowledged in the decision of Real Madrid to purchase the player," said Jonathan Robinson, director of business development at domain name specialist NetNames."Therefore, it appears very surprising that neither Beckham's agents nor Real Madrid have done anything to secure these memorable addresses and protect his brand in the online world."Domain names are the gateway to the internet, and sites built around Beckham23.com, for example, could now be used to sell unauthorised or fake merchandise," he added.Real Madrid and SFX, Beckham's agents, could face a long and costly battle to recover the domain names in what remains a legal grey area.Any complaints over copyright infringement in domain names are referred to the UN World Intellectual Property Organisation, which adjudicates on whether they should be surrendered. However, its judgements have been notoriously haphazard.In 2001 it ordered an Oasis fan in Southampton to give up the rights to RobbieWilliams.info after he pointed the domain at the official site of the singer's Mancunian arch-rivals. But it has also ruled against celebrities such as Madonna and has said that it takes each case on its individual merits.In the early days of the internet gold rush some opportunists made a fortune simply by buying up the domain names to popular companies and then only selling up for six-figure sums. The prices for domain names such as Business.com soared to over £5m at the height of the dotcom boom.&#183;To give MediaGuardian a story emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
Adobe is dropping Mac support for its video editing program, following competition from Apple's Final Cut Pro, reportsMacCentral. "If Apple's already doing an application, it makes the market for a third-party developer that much smaller," said David Trescot, senior director of Adobe's digital video products group. "I think you're going to find that more and more -- if Apple's in a software market, third-party vendors are going to skip it."Footnote: The Adobe press release, availablehere, says: "The combination of Adobe's new video product line and powerful, affordable Intel-based PCs running Windows XP, deliver advanced professional video editing capabilities, once only available on expensive, proprietary systems."
Mobile ring tones, the electronic beeps and buzzes that have shattered a thousand silences from commuter train carriages to funerals, are to take a walk on the wild side with the help of the British Library, it was announced today.Roaring lions and screeching parrots could take their place alongside top 40 hits and the infamous Nokia tune as the library opens up its archive of wildlife recordings to mobile users. The range of recordings also includes penguins and pigs.Around 40 sounds from its collection of 100,000 animal recordings will be available from September to download from the internet to polyphonic mobile phones (which have the capacity to play more complicated ringtones than individual electronic beeps).This is not the first time the sounds of the natural world and mobile phones have crossed paths. Songbirds, in particular starlings, have previously been reported to imitate ringtones.Richard Ranft, the library's curator of wildlife sounds, said: "We have a vast collection of wildlife sounds at the library, including British wildlife and more exotic birds and animals from the Amazon to the Serengeti."We have produced a range of CDs with bird sounds and have found that they are used in doctors' surgeries for their calming effects. We hope people will find their mobile ring tones as relaxing."The library has sold the sounds to the firms iTouch and Mobiletones, which sell mobile users a choice of rings.
"A 23-year-old trainee accountant has been sentenced to 12 months in prison and fined £15,000 for selling thousands of pounds worth of counterfeit software," reportsVNUnet. "Khan had been selling pirate software, primarily copies of Adobe, Macromedia and Microsoft products, via online auction sites such as eBay and QXL. "
James Crabtree atVoxPoliticsannounces anevening seminar on politics and weblogginglater this month, to take place at the House of Commons. The panel includes Tom Watson, theweblogging MPI interviewed for mypiece in this week's Onlineon the subject. Tom Coates has someinteresting thoughtson the forum over on his weblog - he thinks the panel that's been lined up is a little lacking in grassroots representation. He writes: "What's completely missed are thepotentialimplications of a massive group of people interacting with each other and with information and news in massively more active ways." But VoxPolitics might be right to go for baby steps early on. The questions Tom raises in his post, and will maybe voice at the event itself, might be a little unsettling for MPs still grappling with the impact of email on their lives...
Last week the All-Party Internet Group of MPs held a 'spam summit' addressed by e-commerce Minister Stephen Timms. This unofficial group of parliamentarians is staging an inquiry into the problem and scheduled two public hearings. Its deliberations will have no legislative import, but still signify that the great pestilence of cyberspace is finally getting political attention on this side of the Atlantic.One of the truisms of the dotcom era was that 'internet time' runs seven times faster than the chronological variety. So it is with spam. According to MessageLabs, a leading spam-blocking company, unsolicited messages accounted for only 2.3 per cent of emails just a year ago; the corresponding figure for May this year was 55 per cent. In a year's time, 95 per cent of all messages could be spam.Many internet users are already so cheesed off that they are beginning to wonder if email is worth all the bother. Spam has gone from being a personal irritation to a threat to the internet.Many suggestions on how to avoid spam are well-intentioned but ultimately futile. While they may lead to an improvement in the experience of individual users, they leave the real problem untouched. There are several reasons why spam is proliferating and the threat will only be quashed by concerted technological, political and legal action at a systemic level. The big challenge will be to ensure that the cure is not worse than the disease.The reasons spam proliferates are that it's easy and cheap to do and there are as yet few legal penalties likely to deter practitioners. It's easy because of a flaw in the net's email protocol and because many ISPs have been lax about banning spammers from their networks.And it's cheap for the same reason email is cheap - it costs as little to send 10 million emails as it does to send 10. Even if the response rate is only one hundredth of one per cent, that's still 1,000 suckers.The widespread perception that spammers are hard to track down is a myth. Steve Linford of the Spamhaus project - one of the experts who addressed MPs last week - claims that most of the world's spam comes from no more than 200 individuals and companies, all of which are identified on the Spamhaus site. Why are these pests not being hunted down and prosecuted? Because there is not yet a coherent legal basis for prosecution and conviction.Legislators on both sides of the Atlantic are moving to plug the gap, but at the moment it looks as though they may make things worse, not better. In the US, Congress has, as usual, been nobbled by industry, anxious that the crusade against spammers does not impede mainstream marketing techniques. (And, of course, there are the usual First Amendment arguments about spammers' freedom to publish.) The fear is that the US may implement a law that gives citizens only a right to 'opt-out' of spam, which would be tantamount to legitimising the plague. So long as spammers give recipients a working opt-out system, they could stay out of trouble.The EU has adopted a much more sensible stance. The European Directive on unsolicited email says that recipients must explicitly 'opt-in' to receive spam. Opt-in is therefore going to be the legal requirement throughout the EU.Will this solve the problem? Yes, but only if the spam originates in a European country. The difficulty is that 90 per cent of the spam received by European internet users actually comes from the US. Then a nightmare scenario unfolds, in which a pestilence that has been legitimised by the US Congress brings 'old Europe' to its knees.If George Bush were smart enough, he'd have thought it up himself.john.naughton@observer.co.ukwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes/
The Merc has published a longinterview with Linus.
The US government "remains concerned" that Microsoft is making it difficult for rivals to access Windows despite being ordered to open up its software to competitors last year.In a report presented to US district judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly, who presided over the settlement of the long-running Microsoft case, the US government says the court may have to force Microsoft to account for the delay in opening itself up.The news came as speculation mounted that Microsoft is considering paying a special dividend worth $10bn (&#163;6bn) either as a one-off or spread over successive quarters. The company refused to comment.Analysts believe it is increasingly likely that Microsoft will seek to make use of its cash pile following last year's settlement with the US government which has removed much of the uncertainty surrounding the company's future.Although a handful of private lawsuits remain, Microsoft recently settled one of its potentially largest suits, with internet browser firm Netscape.The company had alleged that Microsoft was using anti-competitive practices to ensure that its own browser, Internet Explorer, gained a stronger position on PCs than Netscape's Navigator product. The dispute was settled in May as Microsoft paid AOL, Netscape's owner, $750m and pledged to work more closely with the company.Last November's court settlement brought to a close a long-running dispute with US states. In that settlement, Microsoft promised to license certain pieces of technology "on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms" to rivals.This was seen at the time as playing a key role in loosening Microsoft's grip on the computer market. It was designed to ensure that rival's software would work on computer systems running Microsoft's operating system.Without this measure, the court said last year, the rest of its judgment could prove "prematurely obsolete".In its report on Microsoft's compliance since the ruling the US government said it has received a number of complaints about Microsoft since November.While Microsoft has made a some changes to its original licences, "plaintiffs remain concerned about the royalty structure and rates proposed by Microsoft". The concerns raised by the US government echo complaints made recently by some of Microsoft's rivals including Sun Microsystems.The report also points out Microsoft's progress in making it easier for PC users to access software programs designed by its rivals while using a computer running its Windows operating system.In response to concerns raised by its rivals, Microsoft has changed the way PC makers and computer users can access a tool - known as set program access and default or SPA&amp;D - which enables them to move other people's software on to the Windows start button. Originally the SPA&amp;D tool was "submerged" within a sub-menu of the Windows' start button - which PC users go to first in order to launch programs on their PC, but in the latest versions of Windows that tool will pop-up on the start button.
Creating an engaging role-playing world must be one of the most in-depth and time-consuming challenges faced by a games developer, which is why some of the most successful titles in this genre have come from the world of pen-and-paper role-playing games.Along with the Baldur's Gate series, Vampire: The Masquerade has been one of the most successful conversions of a world, formerly built with paper and imagination, into an immersive gaming experience.The first title, Vampire: The Masquerade - Redemption took White Wolf's World of Darkness and turned it into an engrossing game. Now the second title, Vampire: the Masquerade - Bloodlines, has been announced for release on the PC next year and promises to do even more.As the title suggests, players will be able to adopt the role of a vampire from one of seven different clans, all of which represent different interpretations on classic vampiric imagery - from the suave, sophisticated, Anne Rice-style vamp to the shadow-loving, stealthy Nosferatu.Your chosen clan will give you access to a variety of different skills that will determine the way you play through the game. When coming across another creature you can, for example, either charm your way round them, use your skills of domination over them, become temporarily invisible and sneak past, or just go for the old-fashioned approach and bite them in the neck.Bloodlines should open up lots of possibilities for advancing the role-playing genre, not least because it combines the power of Valve Software's Source engine which has been used to create the sensational graphics in Half-Life 2.Meanwhile, Acclaim's advertising department has been rolling out the spin. The latest publicity stunt involves spray-painting pigeons in non-toxic, water based paint with the logo for Virtua Tennis 2. These flying billboards have apparently been trained to land on the tennis courts during Wimbledon fortnight.However, considering this is coming from a company that delights in creating its own rumours (including planning to buy gravestone space to advertise Shadowman 2 and paying speeding tickets as part of the Burnout 2: Point of Impact promotion), it is more than likely that those attending Wimbledon won't find any spraypainted feathers dropping into their strawberries and cream.Top 10 games - all platformsCompiled by ELSPA1. SOCOM: US Navy Seals (PS2) Sony - £49.992. Enter the Matrix (PS2, GC, XB, PC) Atari - £39.993. The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.994. Midnight Club II (PS2, Xbox) Take 2 - £34.995. Hulk (PS2, Xbox, GC, PC) VU Games - £39.996. Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.997. Brute Force (Xbox) Microsoft - £37.998. Starsky &amp; Hutch (PS2, Xbox, PC) Empire Interactive- £37.999. The Sims (PS2, PC, XB, GC) Electronic Arts- £37.9910. World Championship Snooker 2003 (PS2, Xbox) Codemasters £39.99
A legal battle for the right to incorporate the word spam in the trademark of software companies has begun in the US.Hormel Foods, the makers of Spam luncheon meat, are challenging a technology company in Seattle which wants to trademark SpamArrest, the name of its software for email users.Brian Cartmell, SpamArrest's chairman and chief executive, said: "Spam is a common term describing unsolicited commercial email."Dozens of companies use the word spam in their legal and commercial names and no one confuses any of us with the Hormel canned meat product."He pointed out that Hormel itself says on its website that it does not object to the word being used for unsolicited emails, provided that the product image is not associated with it.But Hormel, which produces a wide range of ready meals and meat products, has challenged SpamArrest's trademark application.In an objection sent to the US Patent and Trademark Office it argues that it has built up "substantial goodwill and good reputation" for the Spam brand name, which would be damaged by SpamArrest's use of the term.The Washington Post reports that the company said that SpamArrest's name so closely resembled that of its luncheon meat that the public might become confused, or might even think that Hormel endorses SpamArrest's products.Derek Newman, the Seattle lawyer who who represents SpamArrest, said: "Inexplicably, Hormel is challenging anyone who uses the word spam as part of a trademark."Spam has become ubiquitous throughout the world to describe unsolicited commercial email. No company can claim trademark rights on a generic term. SpamArrest is both our corporate name and an arbitrary trademark."We are not claiming the right to use the generic term spam alone, but we will protect the name of our company and the brand of our product."Spam products began to appear on the shelves of US grocery shops as far back as 1937.Last year it sold its six billionth can of Spam.The full range stretches to Spam Lite, Spam Oven Roasted Turkey, Spam Smoke Flavored, and Spam Less Sodium.
Anyone considering illegally downloading an MP3 file today should think twice. According to a cover article in the current issue of the New Yorker, double-clicking that download button will make you directly responsible for plunging the world back into the 5th century. It posits a doomsday scenario, backed up by research from Microsoft, where download-happy music fans will, any second, cause the appearance of a "vast, illegal, anarchic economy" to rival the legitimate entertainment industry."With no visible means of support," it continues solemnly, "many artists would be forced to stop working and a cultural dark age would ensue." The implication seems to be that unless downloading ceases immediately, by this time next year the members of Coldplay will be huddled by a roadside somewhere, their shivering fingers pathetically clutching cardboard signs that read "will play intelligent yet slightly melancholy alt-rock for food".The New Yorker article is filled with unwittingly hilarious stuff like that: confirmation that, faced with declining sales and spiralling profits, the music industry has gone barking mad. The most compelling evidence of all is theindustry's latest plan to combat internet piracy.The industry has always been full of bright ideas - eight-track tapes, plastering records with skull and crossbones logos that warned home taping was "killing music", signing Mariah Carey for $80m at precisely the point her records stopped selling, etc - but this one is truly a dazzler. The Recording Industry Association of America has announced that it intends to start filing lawsuits against individual consumers who download MP3 files illegally: according to one legal expert, each downloader could be "sued for several hundred million dollars in damages". The British Phonographic Industry is making similar noises. "Litigation can't be ruled out in this country," the BPI's Sarah Roberts claimed this week.Back in the States, Orrin Hatch, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee and   budding "patriotic songwriter" - his fans include legendary music critic George Bush Snr - has jumped into the debate with exactly the sort of subtlety we've come to expect from rightwing US senators. Hatch thinks that hundred-million-dollar lawsuits are too good for them. "I'm all for destroying their machines," he thundered recently.He must know that the majority of people involved in downloading music illegally are teenage pop fans. The record companies certainly do, even giving them their own soubriquet, "playground pirates". What better way of giving an ailing business a shot in the arm than by marching a load of 13-year-old Busted fans into court, ruining their families financially, then smashing their computers in front of them? Perhaps the music industry has simply cracked under the mental strain involved in ignoring the proverbial elephant in its living room. No music fan would rather have an MP3 file than an "official" CD.Even the "playground pirates", who don't care that the sound quality is lousy, would be more interested in something that comes with a cover: what their idol looks like is more important to a teenybopper than the music they make. In an attempt to wheedle as much money as possible out of the youth market, it has concentrated on promoting artists with a turnover speedy even by teeny pop standards.It has now reached critical mass. Pop artists have become so transient that what's fashionable to own now is the subject of derision in a few months' time, as evidenced by the firefly careers of Hear'Say and One True Voice. Fifteen quid is a lot of money for a teenager to spend on a CD that's going to get you laughed at this time next year. People download MP3s because CDs are too expensive.For older music fans, the financial reasons for downloading an MP3 are undoubtedly heightened by the sensation of putting one over an industry that has relentlessly screwed its customers for the past 20 years. If the resultant declining sales mean that record labels are forced to prune some of the musical deadwood they spend vast amounts of money trying to foist on an uninterested public, then so much the better.For the music industry, the whole point of introducing CDs in the early 80s was not to create a more durable format with better sound quality, but to milk as much money out of the public as possible. CDs are cheaper to manufacture than records (they cost 50p each), but sell for more in the shops.This is not news. Everybody realises that CDs should be cheaper, from people who know the background to teenyboppers who realise their pocket money doesn't stretch that far. The music industry is too stubborn and greedy to do anything about it. Instead, they're happier to propagate lurid scare stories about the onset of a second dark age and haul fans into court: architects of their own destruction, hastening their demise.&#183;Alexis Petridis is the Guardian's rock criticalexispetridis@hotmail.co.uk
A landmark legal battle is looming over the use of the word "spam" by companies offering junk email blocking services.Hormel Foods, the makers of the luncheon meat made famous by a Monty Python sketch, is challenging a Seattle-based technology firm that wants to trademark "Spam Arrest" - the name of its software for email users.Brian Cartmell, president and chief executive of SpamArrest LLC, said: "Hormel is acting like a corporate crybaby and ought to can it."Spam is a common term describing unsolicited commercial email (UCE). Dozens of companies use the word spam in their legal and commercial names and no one confuses any of us with the Hormel canned meat product."He points to the fact that Hormel itself says on its website: "We do not object to use of this slang term to describe UCE, although we do object to the use of our product image in association with that term."But the food company, which produces a wide range of ready meals and meat products, has challenged Spam Arrest's applications to trademark its own company name.In an objection filed to the US Patent and Trademark Office, Hormel argues it has built up "substantial goodwill and good reputation" for the Spam brand name, which would be damaged by Spam Arrest's use of the term.According to a report in today's Washington Post, the company said that Spam Arrest's name so closely resembles that of its lunch meat that the public might become confused, or might think that Hormel endorses Spam Arrest's products.Seattle attorney Derek Newman, who represents SpamArrest LLC, said: "Inexplicably Hormel is challenging anyone who uses the word spam as part of a trademark."Spam has become ubiquitous throughout the world to describe unsolicited commercial email. No company can claim trademark rights on a generic term. SpamArrest is both our corporate name and an arbitrary trademark."We are not claiming the right to use the generic term spam alone, but we will protect the name of our of our company and the brand of our product."The row centres on two trademark applications filed by SpamArrest LLC in early 2002 for the term Spam Arrest.It was granted a trademark (in international class 009) for "computer software, namely, software designed to eliminate unsolicited commercial electronic mail".This trademark was challenged last week by Hormel. A second application by SpamArrest for a trademark (in international class 042) for online computer services was challenged before it was granted.The cases are pending before the trademark trial and appeal noard, according to the website of the US Patent and Trademark Office.SPAM products began to appear on the shelves of US grocery stores in 1937, and last year Hormel marked the sale of the six billionth can. The Spam range includes Spam, Spam Oven Roasted Turkey, Spam Smoke Flavored, Spam Lite or Spam Less Sodium.Hormel could not be reached for comment at the time of publication.
This number one hit on Google has been amusing us recently: The Register's Andrew Orlowski offers his 2chere.
Mobile phone theft accounts for more than a quarter of all street crime in London and inner cities. In 2001, the latest year for which figures are available, 710,000 mobiles were stolen in the UK.Clearing up this category of crime, which didn't exist 10 years ago, would benefit the communities involved - and the government. This is because mobile robberies form such a large proportion of total crime that they have become a big political problem.If Labour could successfully crack this problem, it might bring a much-needed dividend in the run-up to the next election.This is doubtless what lies behind today's decision of the new Home Office minister, Hazel Blears, to meet privately with industry leaders. But what on earth happened to last year's campaign backed by the police, leading companies and the Home Office, under which any phones reported stolen (by ringing 08701 123123) were to be immediately immobilised and made useless?There is anecdotal evidence that the immobilisation campaign has led to a drop in thefts - particularly where it is youngsters stealing from youngsters - but not as great a drop as had been hoped for. As David Nunn, editor of the trade magazine Mobile, points out, the campaign may have stopped people stealing in order to use the phones themselves or to re-sell them - but in other mugging attacks the phone is stolen to prevent the victim from calling the police.There appears to have been a drop in retail crime - the theft of phones from stores or individuals presenting stolen phones as trade ins for better models. But the armed robbery of truckloads of phones is still a problem.Immobilisation of stolen phones ought to have a significant impact on petty crime - but it won't do much to prevent the organised criminals. They often steal phones from the UK and take them abroad to be re-programmed because immobilisation only affects calls made in the UK at the moment.The authorities should not lose hope. They should remind themselves how a judicious use of improved technologies and cooperation between manufacturers and the authorities led to a 30% reduction in house break-ins and car theft in the five years to 2001. Theft of mobiles is another problem waiting for a similar solution.
The amount of money Democratic presidential hopeful Howard Dean of Vermont has brought in online, "and his use of the Web to draw in supporters, keep them involved and organize them locally, is winning plaudits from analysts and others who say his is the first candidacy to put the Internet to full use," saysComputerworld.Guardian readers have been following the story in theDoonesburycomic strip, which is available in colour at Microsoft's MSN Slate.
PCWorld.comlooks into surveillance in the US. Beryl Howell, a surveillance law specialist, says: "It should give comfort to the American people that electronic surveillance is not running amok and out of control. If you told them there are less than 1,500 [wiretaps], I think they'd be shocked. There are more murders than that in the United States."
Microsoft, the computer software giant, is considering paying out a special dividend to shareholders in response to increasing investor pressure.The special dividend would be more than $10bn (£6bn), the biggest corporate pay-out ever, the Financial Times reported.Unlike traditional companies, technology companies such as Microsoft often do not pay dividends to shareholders on the grounds that they benefit from high stock prices.But that argument has lost credibility with the bursting of the hi-tech bubble and investors have been putting pressure on Microsoft, whose share prices have come down from stratospheric levels during the 1990s boom, to release some of its enormous cash reserves.Microsoft, which generates about $3bn (£2.1bn) in cash every quarter, has accumulated a cash pile of $46bn (£26bn). The company began paying a dividend earlier this year.Microsoft had in the past justified its no-dividends policy on the grounds that it needed large cash reserves to cover potential legal risks from lawsuits. The company last year settled a landmark anti-trust action from the US government.But in a report published yesterday, their first review of the settlement, the federal government and states accused Microsoft of failing to comply with a key element of the agreement. Failure to adhere to the settlement could trigger a court order against the company, the group said.Microsoft competitors such as Sun Microsystems have complained that the software giant's licensing terms remain onerous despite promises to make them simpler and cheaper.Under the terms of the settlement, Microsoft agreed to offer its competitors "reasonable and non-discriminatory" terms of access to its proprietary protocols to enable them to build software more compatible with the Windows operating system. Microsoft controls 90% of the market in operating systems.
Gohere.
Internet security experts today warned that hackers plan to attack thousands of websites on Sunday in a six-hour point-scoring contest.An intelligence report from mi2g, a digital risk management company, said the hackers plan to gain points depending on which operating system they attack: one point for Microsoft Windows, two points for Linux, Unix and BSD, three points for AIX, and five points for HP-Unix and MacOS. "This suggests that some hackers may specifically target Unix and MacOS systems to claim more points", the report read.A website called www.defacers-challenge.com, listed the rules for hackers in broken English. The site was shut down early yesterday evening.Home internet users who do not operate websites probably would not be affected directly, said Oliver Friedrichs, the senior manager for security response at Symantec.mi2g executive chairman SK Matai said: "This bizarre and unwelcome hacker challenge on Sunday is unlikely to disrupt the internet as a whole. There may well be a range of ISPs and some prominent sites which come under heavy attack given that they would yield mass defacement targets or big bragging rights."An early-warning network for the technology industry operating with the US department for homeland security, said it received "credible information" about the planned attacks and has already detected surveillance probes by hackers looking for weaknesses in corporate and government networks.Chris Rouland, director of the X-force security team at Internet Security Systems, said researchers monitoring underground chat rooms and other internet activity had detected a drop in the numbers of vandalised websites recently and an increase in the types of surveillance scans that typically precede computer break-ins.     "It's kind of a sandbagging period," said Rouland, who predicted that hackers were quietly breaking into computers and waiting to vandalise them on Sunday.The purported "prize" for participating hackers was 500-megabytes of online storage space, which made little sense to computer experts. They said hackers capable of breaking into thousands of computers could easily steal that amount of storage on corporate networks.A spokesman for the FBI said: "The FBI is taking this very seriously. Hacking is a crime and those who participate in this activity will be investigated and brought to justice."
Goggles relieve lengthy boredomFancy listening to music while you swim? No doubt inspired by Speedo's waterproof FM radio tuner of several years ago, a student at Brunel University has taken the concept a step further by integrating an MP3 player into a pair of goggles. The player, which has been on show at Brunel University's end-of-year showcase for its design and technology students, uses bone conduction to vibrate music directly to the skull. Sam James who developed the goggles to relieve the boredom of swimming endless lengths, is not only &#163;1,000 richer courtesy of a prize from sponsors AOL, but may also see a research company bring his product to the market.www.brunel.ac.ukMobile gamingHulk links with JavaPredictably, film and TV licences are proving just as popular in mobile phone gaming as they are on every other platform. Digital Bridges has just revealed a well-presented Java version of The Weakest Link available through Vodafone Live! in July and Sky Active in August. The single-player game requires users to answer a series of questions within a set time limit, receiving a progressively larger score for each correct answer - which has to be banked, of course. The Hulk movie is also getting a Java outing in July. The game, from iTouch, is a scrolling beat-'em-up, where the player must punch, jump and squash stuff through 10 nicely detailed levels. It will be available in a special retail pack from Carphone Warehouse, Tesco and other high street stores.www.digitalbridges.comwww.itouch.co.ukMobile PhonesReal dealRealNetworks has landed a deal to provide Vodafone customers with streaming audio and video. The agreement, which is a blow to RealNetworks' rival Microsoft Media Player, allows Vodafone to provide video and audio in the RealAudio and RealVideo formats. The service will be available to more than 1m users of the 2.5G Vodafone Live! service, which combines videos, games and multimedia messaging. Rob Glaser, the chairman and chief executive of RealNetworks, said: "The relationship between RealNetworks and Vodafone is a major step forward in making mobile media a mainstream reality."www.realnetworks.comOld mastersWant an old master on your phone? New MMS-based services from Pocket This let you send a picture from the   National Gallery in London via MMS to your mobile phone. It costs 10-13p for Orange, O2 and Vodafone users, with T-Mobile and Virgin Mobile to follow. Online art and framing website Easyart is offering dozens of paintings including Van Gogh, Gustav Klimt and Titian at &#163;1.50 a go. PocketThis says its system is also being adopted by the Tate Gallery, Photo Box and Club Wizard, several estate agents and many others.www.nationalgallery.org.ukwww.pocketthis.comwww.easyart.co.ukO2 unveils phoneMobile phone network 02 has taken the wraps off the mark two version of its xda mobile phone/PDA. The xda II, which runs Microsoft's Windows Mobile 2003 Pocket PC operating system and offers GPRS for email and web browsing, will go on sale at the end of the year.Cosmetically, the two devices are similar, but the xda II has an integrated aerial and boasts a higher contrast 65,000 colour   display. Also on the rear of the xda II is a 640 x 480 pixel camera for capturing images, which can be sent either via MMS or email. The device also features a faster processor, the 400MHz Intel XScale, and improved battery life.The new xda has been lined up as one of the first devices that will be compatible with 02's forthcoming music and video services. For the past six weeks, the network has been trialling music and video downloads and streaming via GPRS, and expects to go live by the end of the year.Other announcements from the company included a commitment to roll out more than 1,000 Wi-Fi (wireless Lan) hotspots throughout Europe, and the autumn introduction of instant messaging via mobiles to the UK. O2's chief executive, Peter Erksine, also said that 02 is on track to launch its 3G (third generation) service in the UK mid to late next year.  &lt;A HREF="http://www.02.co.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.02.co.ukSoftwareTeachers' Star dealDell, the world's largest PC maker, is selling UK teachers laptops on which it has pre-installed Sun's StarOffice software suite, rather than the usual choice of Microsoft. Dell Inspiron and Latitude laptops with StarOffice are available only through the government's laptops for teachers initiative. "They are going to trial this out in the education sector," says Mru Patel, Sun's UK head of desktop solutions. "If that project is successful, Dell will install it across other sectors." However, Dell says the use of StarOffice is just for this project. StarOffice and its open-source version Open  Office won the best Linux software award at last week's Networking Industry Awards.www.lft.ngfl.gov.ukDigital technologyLeicaEnthusiasts who can't quite bring themselves to ditch their analogue film cameras for a digital one are being offered an intriguing solution by high-end German manufacturer Leica. It has developed an add-on unit for a pair of its existing analogue cameras that transforms them into digital models capable of taking images of astonishing 10 megapixels. The Digital Modul-R slips on the back of the Leica R8 or R9, giving the photographer the option of taking images either to film or to a SecureDigital (SD) storage card. The unit, which comprises a digital back and power supply unit, will go on sale next year.www.leica-camera.comJVC offer wirelessJVC claims to have found a solution for streaming high-definition video wirelessly throughout the home. Its new optical wireless video system uses laser diodes and high-sensitivity avalanche photo diodes to transfer video at up to 1.4Gbps -far faster than the current 802.11g standard that has a transfer speed much slower than its nominal 54Mbps. The company says the system will work with both analogue and digital video sources, and, in spite of using lasers, is completely safe. Its main drawback is a distance limitation of around 10 metres.www.jvc.co.ukJVC launches PDAJVC is to join the growing band of manufacturers offering PDAs that run using Microsoft's Windows Mobile 2003 Pocket PC operating system. Due out in the UK in October is the high-end iO PDA and, given the company's consumer electronics heritage, it is no surprise that it majors on entertainment, with MPeg4 video and MP3 audio playback among its core facilities.The model will sport a 3.5inch LCD transflective display, be powered by a 400MHz Intel XScale PXA255 processors, and have 128MB Ram and 32Mb of flash Rom. Other features JVC may add to the mix include integrated Wi-Fi and a USB port for hooking up a digital camcorder. No price details are available yet.www.jvc.co.uk
It's Thursday evening, in a stuffy conference room at the Harvard law school in Cambridge,      Massachusetts, and weblogging champion Dave Winer is holding court.This is a corner of America famous for the Boston tea party, which ignited America's war of      independence. And this little group of students and weblogging enthusiasts is talking about sparking      what they claim will be another revolution - this time in politics and journalism, delivered by the power      of the web.The claim might sound far-fetched, but Winer is not one to mask his ambitions. "We will all live to see      the day a weblogger becomes president," he tells the group, as he updates a weblog being projected on      to a large screen. With a brisk "Let's talk about New Hampshire," they start discussing how to      evangelise word of the blog to one of the 2004 presidential race's most vital states.Weblogs - easily updated homepages full of commentary and links - have been around for years, and      Winer's Scripting News weblog was one of the first. But they have swept the web in recent years,      gaining mainstream attention following the September 11 attacks, when such webloggers as Glenn      Reynolds were catapulted to worldwide fame for searing commentaries and right-wing political      punditry.Winer also had his views on the war, but he was well known before then, to the Silicon Valley      technology crowd at least. He made his name as a pioneering programmer in the 1980s and founded      Userland software, a maker of web publishing software, in 1988.These days, he takes a back-seat role with the company. Instead, from his position as a Berkman      fellow at Harvard, he is spreading the blogging gospel: about how easy the pages are to set up, about      how blogging is revealing the unedited voices of millions around the world.The project this summer is to "seed" political weblogging in New Hampshire, urging voters to start      online diaries to record the campaign. His aim? To force candidates to address issues in a more      consistent and honest way.Winer proclaims no party political agenda. He simply wants rid of the      opinion pollled "slicing and dicing" that has candidates saying whatever they think the particular      demographic listening wants to hear.With an army of webloggers presenting reports and transcripts      of the candidates' every public move, he sees as inevitable a new atmosphere of plain talking.       "The 2000 election in the US was a tie, and the candidates never told us about themselves," says      Winer."They lied, they struggled to make themselves stand for absolutely nothing, and the voters      were powerless to do anything about it. In 2004, they won't be powerless. The question is, will they      use the power?"To persuade them, Winer is heading north to New Hampshire to visit college campuses - fertile ground      for the weblog phenomenon. He will train a few trailblazers, who will train others. An ambition is to      equip and then unmask - first to themselves, then the world - a blogging star of the state similar to      Reynolds, now known as the "warblogger".It is not just the politicians who should be afraid. Weblogging, says Winer, is coming after journalism,      too. "In 2004, the opportunity is to have the citizens cover the candidates and root around the      journalists who do an absolutely terrible job."If I were in your business," Winer tells me, "I'd embrace this stuff as quickly as I could, and make the      changes that it requires of you. The changes are going to come. Every industry that has ever had to      deal with this has learned the lessons."The software industry had to deal with this in the 80s, and did not deal with it very well. &#91;It was&#93; the      entertainment industry in the 90s with music and the movie industry, and it's coming for the media -  for journalism, for reporters, newspapers."With Winer's plans at an advanced stage, America - and its media - is beginning to see how weblogs,      and the ease with which they make it possible to reach an online audience, might change things. In the      UK, the hype is only slowly beginning to kick in. But there is a political weblogging evangelist hard at      work on this side of the pond, as well.Tim Ireland, a web consultant and weblogger, is trying to persuade MPs to emerge from behind their      pagers, and confess all - or at least something - to their own blogs.Although his invective is less      strident than Winer's, his themes are similar: the importance of direct communication and of creating      new discussions."This isn't a fad," insists Ireland. "This is part of the evolution of online publishing. It's only going to      evolve, and the only reason it's so popular is that it has that personal aspect, the communication      aspect that people have been craving for years after one-way communication."       But how does this transfer to the rough and tumble world of politics? "&#91;An MP&#93; who wishes to      communicate in this way can say 'this is what is shaping my decisions'," says Ireland."They can say 'I      haven't decided what I'm doing with this particular issue.. come and help'."       Ireland's favourite example of how effective weblogs can be comes from one of only two MPs      currently blogging. Tom Watson, Labour MP for West Bromwich East, has been campaigning on airgun      laws. Type "airgun laws" into Google.co.uk, and Wat son's weblog is top of the rankings."This is a big benefit for most MPs. This is not only showing their constituents how they're working on      a day-by-day basis, they draw people to them who care about issues they care about, be they      constituents or not."With something like airgun laws, it is not a local issue - it is a national issue. They can draw people      into their fold who want to support them."Isn't there a danger that backbench MPs - technically responsible to their constituencies - could      spend too much time communicating with a web audience scattered around the world? Watson      concedes this is a danger, and says he does not see the weblog as necessarily a vote winner."I'm missing time in the garden, rather than in Westminster. But I do find it personally satisfying."       Watson's weblog is not just a diary of life in the palace of Westminster - although there are endearing      breathless entries about big debates and famous visitors scattered through his journal. He also uses      the weblog to link deep into the wealth of information being put online by Whitehall, attempting to      explain and add context to otherwise lifeless documents."You can start debate, and engage people you wouldn't normally have engaged," he says, "and that's      what I'm beginning to find fascinating.Watson does not describe himself as a techie, but the blogging world's latest Commons recruit      certainly has the credentials. Sheffield Hallam MP Richard Allan, the Lib Dems' information technology      spokesman, says his weblog - which went live last month - has had an instant impact."I've had more comments and interest in the blog in two weeks than I had in the regular website in      months," says Allan, who plans to step down at the next election, possibly to take up a role in IT with      the NHS, where he used to work.       "There are two things that are different about blogging. First, it's an active, participative medium...     people instinctively engage with it."The other is the viral nature of the publicity: on Sunday &#91;I was putting&#93; the code together for the      site, and didn't tell anyone about it. I thought at some point in the week I'd put some publicity out      about it. By Monday morning I had my first comment, and it snowballed from there."The two MPs are enthusiastic advocates of weblogging, while Ireland predicts that as many as half of      the MPs could have their own web diaries by the next general election.       But will we, I ask Watson, ever see a minister or prime minister (or a spin master) start blogging?"I      certainly think we'll see a cabinet minister blogging," he says. "It's almost liberating to be able to      bang out my own take on things without relying on people to interpret what I'm saying or thinking."For a few of today's beleaguered politicians, a filterless medium might prove an alluring concept. A      Blair blog, a Campbell confessional? Now that would be revolutionary stuff.Booming blogsBlogger, the company behind the web's most popular weblogging tool, was acquired by search engine Google earlier this year and is now rolling out a new version of its software which will make it easier to add new features to 1.5m registered users (the actual number of active weblogs is likely much fewer).  Jason Shellen, associate program manager of Blogger, told a recent weblogging conference that new community features would come next, possibly including a weblog search using Google's search technology. Six Apart, maker of the more complex Movable Type system, is in advanced testing for a new product, Typepad, which will make it easier for non-technical computer users to air their thoughts online. The incumbents need to innovate: new players are arriving on the scene at an impressive rate. 20six is a European player with the emphasis on photo blogging from camera-equipped mobile phones. Easyjournal makes great play of its community-building features.Bloggerwww.blogger.comMovable Typewww.movabletype.org20sixwww.20six.co.ukEasyjournalwww.easyjournal.com
On Sunday, a competition known as "the Defacers Challenge awards points to malicious hackers who successfully compromise an organization's Web server and deface its Web pages" reportsIDG News. "Windows servers count for 1 point, while HP-UX and Macintosh servers count for 5."It could be a joke/hoax, butInternet Security Systems' Web sitesays: "We are raising the AlertCon Level to 2 in light of the defacement challenge currently scheduled for Sunday July 6, 2003. We strongly encourage System Administrators to review their current security policies and ensure that all current and known security issues have been addressed."
KidmailI am looking for a neat way to get my 12-year-old son on to email while keeping the spam away.Jenny van der MolenJack Schofield replies:There are several American email systems designed for young children, such asSurfBuddiesandKinderMail. With SurfBuddies, children can only see email from people on their buddy list, and a "blind carbon copy" feature means you can monitor your child's mail. But 12 is probably the upper limit for this sort of approach, and you might like to tryChoiceMailinstead.To use this, you set up a "white list" of people your child knows: these can send mail normally. Mail from anyone else is held up with a request to fill in a web-based form. This eliminates spam either because it uses a fake address or the spammer can't be bothered. None of these systems is free. They all require Microsoft Windows (even SurfBuddies WebMail), and only ChoiceMail works with AOL. If you want a free solution that works with any client, I'd suggestMyRealBox. It is not aimed at children: it is, in essence, a public testbed for Novell email engineers. It does suffer some "outages", but at least it is serious about blocking spam.Hard timesI have just had a replacement hard drive fitted in my PC and understand the machine will run more efficiently if I partition the drive.   I've looked in Windows XP Help and can't find a straightforward explanation of how to do this.Kevin KnowlesJS:If you are using Windows XP's NTFS (New Technology File System) then it is probably not worth the effort. The old FAT (File Allocation Table) system used in MS-DOS/Windows worked best on small drives, and was slow and inefficient on large ones. NTFS works better on large drives, and is significantly more reliable, though it does stop you from using many DOS-based recovery tools. The main reason for partitioning a drive now is to use more than one operating system (XP, Me, Linux, etc), in which case you should put each on a separate partition.However, it is best to partition the drive before formatting it and installing software. See the Microsoft Knowledge Base article313348, How To Partition and Format a Hard Disk in Windows XP  for help. Alternatively, you can use a utility such asPartition Magicto create and change partitions without losing all your data.RSVPIf we all sent "genuine" replies to those bogus African emails, asking for further details, would it in any way discourage them? They would be forced to deal with perhaps tens of thousands of responses, not knowing which were genuine and which weren't - or would it merely clog up the system even more?Mike GerrardJS:These attempts at fraud - soliciting advance fees and bribes to release non-existent cash - are at least sent in plain text, sometimes all in caps, so they are not consuming vast amounts of resources, compared with the "humorous" multi-megabyte videos that are widely circulated. Also, they do not contain pornographic images or viruses, and they are easy to remove with anti-spam software such as Mailwasher. From    the net's point of view, then, they are relatively harmless. However, the 419 scammers are said to be earning $1m a day from the US alone, and victims have been held to ransom or even killed (seewww.crimes-of-persuasion.com). From a personal point of view, they are relatively dangerous. If I wanted to attack spammers, I wouldn't start with them.Backchat&#183;Harold Smith was looking for free web space for a historical society site. Tom Corcoran saysBrinksteris an excellent free or cheap host. It allows ASP, though "the file manager allows only five files to be uploaded at a time".Barry HarkcomsuggestsWebFusion Home Entry. "Its &#163;9.99 a month service provides 600MB of fast web space, 3GB of bandwidth per month, free unlimited 24-hour support and so much more that it makes a mockery of spending time and effort looking for acceptable free web space, unless one genuinely cannot afford such a small fee."&#183;Last week, I suggested that Jonathan Swan should use Ethernet in preference to USB for a home broadband connection. Martin Stevens and other readers say that NTL provides a choice with its broadband/cable TV package.&#183;For recording from the net, Ian Hunter "and many others here in the Abu Dhabi Men's College" are using Messer, orMemo Session Sound Recorder. "It is free and records either in WAV or MP3 format. A major attraction is its level meter."
Fancy being the star of your own videogame? Developed in Britain by Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, the EyeToy is a nifty USB webcam, which plugs into the front of the PlayStation 2 and shows players live on screen. By sensing movement, EyeToy lets players interact and manipulate items and characters in 12 simple games.So, for example, you could be doing   keep ups by kicking an on-screen football. Or have a boxing match by pulling punches in front of the telly. Particularly amusing is the Wishi Washi game, where two players compete to clean the most windows by waving their arms over the on-screen windows. If this seems like hard work, then the special effects mode will appeal.Simple movements result in time delay or particle effects, which are all   impressive. Also included is a rudimentary video messaging facility that allows you to record a 10-60 second clip on to the memory card. But the games are the main attraction.Sony Europe's Ron Festejo, producer of EyeToy, is clear about the target audience: "We are aiming at   ages three to 103 and we expect mums to enjoy it, just as much as their children."Much like the dancing mat games, which have sold more than a million copies in the UK, EyeToy looks likely to appeal to the mass market and people who wouldn't normally consider themselves gamers. "EyeToy offers a simple, almost retro form of entertainment, which doesn't rely on graphics," says Festejo.EyeToy has an undeniable novelty   aspect and it does offer a glimpse of a potential new gaming area. "The fact that you are the in-game character is a real revolution and we fully intend to build on this technology in the coming years. For example, you could have football games with your image or likeness in the game," says Festejo.For now, gamers need to stick to cleaning virtual windows but in the future they could be polishing virtual trophies.
A little over a year ago, at T-Mobile's flagship store in Oxford Street, a few dozen journalists gathered to witness the European launch of multimedia messaging service (MMS). Each was given two new Sony Ericsson T68i handsets, the first European mobiles able to take and send pictures. Expectations were high. But to the embarrassment of the companies involved, the network went down and the demonstration failed.It was an unhappy baptism for a technology that was hyped as a potential saviour of the mobile industry. With revenue from voice calls levelling after years of incredible growth, "mobile operators can ill afford multimedia messaging services to fail," wrote Joanne Taaffe, in Total Telcom Magazine.Now, we are beginning to see a different story. Picture phones, such as the Sagem myX6, are being sold for under &#163;100. Mobile networks are offering international roaming services for picture messaging. Interoperability - the ability to send messages between different networks - has been possible in the UK since April 16. Countries that started with interoperability - Finland and Norway - have seen a quicker acceptance of picture messaging than the UK.Perhaps, more crucially, we are beginning to see communities develop around picture messaging. Cheeky photoblogs likeCelebs at Starbucksare giving picture messaging a life of its own.What has become clear is that the phones are being used in a different way than intended. Instead of people   sending pictures between phones, those who have bought a MMS-compatible phone are more likely to email images to themselves or share them using small networks like Bluetooth or infrared."It seems to be less person-to-person messaging. We are seeing quite a few examples of people taking photographs and uploading them to the   web," explains Mike Short, chair of the Mobile Data Association, an industry consortium that issues figures for text messaging and the mobile internet. "The dynamic is quite different from the way text messaging took off."In the UK, there are nearly 50m text-compatible phones compared with just 750,000 MMS-compatible ones. As Short points out: "These   numbers constrain how much person to person messaging will take place".Mobile carriers will not yet release figures on how many picture messages are being sent in the UK. Vodafone recently stated that as early as next year, it expected 7-10% of revenue would come from picture messaging.People are beginning to find practical uses for the new phones. Women   are using their phones to take images of taxi drivers. Receivers of faulty goods are snapping the damage and sending the images to the company. People hiring cars are taking pictures of scratches before they drive off. At the Royal Glamorgan Hospital in Llantrisant, south Wales, junior doctors are using mobiles to send pictures of x-rays.But there have also been abuses. Companies with sensitive documents are wary of staff with picture phones. Some health clubs have asked members not to use them. Signs have appeared in Japan asking customers not to take pictures of magazine articles, while picture phones are banned in Saudi Arabia.Picture messaging was invented in Japan, where it took two-and-a-half years to reach mass-market acceptance. Now it is commonplace. Just take David Beckham's recent visit. The Real Madrid player was met by swarms of people holding picture phones aloft everywhere he went."Although there was a lot of hype with the launch of things like Vodafone Live, the reality is only a small percentage of users have camera phones in the UK," explains Ben Wood, a mobile phone analyst at Gartner. "We regard photo messaging as a kind of disposable photography. It's sending a picture you probably would not have previously taken."It's too early to tell how picture messaging is doing, but it is worth remembering that text messaging was first available in 1993 and it did not take off until 1998. The mobile internet was first available in 2000 and only now is it also beginning to take off. Unlike the pictures the phones take, there is no immediate answer.
'This inquiry could not be more timely," e-commerce minister Stephen Timms told the UK's first spam summit on Tuesday.In the next few weeks, Timms will decide exactly how this country will implement the European directive on privacy and electronic communications, which will ban unsolicited commercial email across the EU.Will it stop Europeans receiving it? "Realistically, the answer has to be no," said Timms, referring to laws against junk faxing. "Even within the UK, experience suggests we can expect incomplete compliance."And with an estimated 90% of email sent to Europeans originating outside the EU, according to US spam-filtering firm Brightmail, the new law is unlikely to make much difference.The summit was held in Westminster by APig, the all-party parliamentary internet group. It held the first of two sessions taking evidence on spam. What it heard was that the problem is growing fast. Brightmail has submitted evidence predicting that spam will make up half of all email by the end of this summer, up from 7% in April 2001.At some high-profile organisations, spam makes up 79% of email. And even though the problem is worse in the US, the UK is not far behind. Brightmail's filtering of email sent from BT Openworld accounts in March found that 41% was spam.More than a fifth of spam in the UK is pornographic, although sales pitches make up a third. Some 90% of spam cannot be traced, but of the rest, 60% claims to come from Europe."There is definitely a need for a co-ordinated approach, with government involvement," said an Internet Service Providers Association (Ispa) spokesperson. "Any action that ISPs are taking to combat spam, along with that taken by end-users, needs to be reinforced by the law."The London Internet Exchange (Linx), through which 140 ISPs exchange traffic, says that the government needs to direct resources to take spammers to court under the new EU-based law."We hope this will be used and that there will be high-profile prosecutions," said Malcolm Hutty, a Linx spokesman. "We would like a spammer to get caught and be fined, partly because they should be, partly because it will raise the profile of the legislation."When questioned about punishment, Timms said the law was indeed planned to include criminal offences punishable by fines. As for enforcement, he said: "We clearly will have to look at resourcing of this activity as it develops, but the key at this stage is to make sure we have the right legislative framework in place."Microsoft and AOL, both of which have taken legal action against spammers, presented evidence in favour of the UK's plans during the government's consultation."With the existing legislation of the Computer Misuse Act and the European directive, there are ways we haven't tried &#91;on how spammers can be prosecuted&#93;," said Camille de Stempel, director of policy at AOL UK. "There's already strong legislation - let's see if that works."A Department for Trade and Industry consultation suggested restricting legal bulk commercial email to addresses obtained "in the context of a sale of a product or a service".Microsoft said this should be widened to mean legitimate even when money had not changed hands. On the other hand, it also called for rapid injunction procedures against spammers.But Steve Linford, founder of spammer blacklisting body Spamhaus, said forthcoming US legislation holds the key, while threatening a wave of spam.Spamhaus runs a database of the world's worst spammers: to qualify, you have to be kicked off three ISPs and send 50m spam emails a day. It reckons the 200 spammers on the blacklist are responsible for 90% of   all spam. "These guys are professional fraudsters. They've been at it for years," said Linford.And they love the draft US bills, as they support web-users opting out of receiving spam, following pressure from the direct marketing lobby. The European directive requires opting in."Why opt-in?" Philippe Gerard, of the European Commission's directorate-general information society, asked the summit. "Privacy is a right. It's not an option.""We have a very different approach," said Jim Halpert, a partner at US law firm Piper Rudnick. "Privacy is not a fundamental right. It's balanced with free speech."About 30 US states have introduced anti-spam laws - requiring, for example, spammers to mark their output with ADV for advert - but have found their legislation mostly ignored.Linford believes the same is likely of the proposed US national laws. "These are terrible. They will legalise spamming." The draft bills require spammers to offer an opt-out service, but many on the Spamhaus blacklist already claim to do this - and target those trying to opt out for extra spam."We need unsolicited bulk email banned. We need legislation to drive these people off any kind of legitimate platform," Linford said.At the moment, through blocking organised by Spamhaus and others, big spammers are restrained. If they were given legitimacy, Linford warned, they could greatly increase their activity.And Europe would be helpless - unless we want to cut the wires to the rest of the world.
In the increasingly frenetic game of cat-and-mouse between the music industry and online music pirates, the recording industry believes it may be on the verge of victory.After an announcement by the Recording Industry Association of America last week that it will soon file hundreds of lawsuits against individual file-swappers, peer-to-peer application providers reported a small decrease in network traffic. P2P services say the decrease is unlikely to last.After three years of paralysis, the music industry's get-tough-on-consumers offensive is only the start of what promises to be a long war. As RIAA president, Cary Sherman, said, the association plans "at least several hundred lawsuits to start, but that's only the beginning".But critics of the initiative warn that the offensive will ultimately be as self-defeating as the battle against Napster. The industry's apparent rationale - that going after P2P users will drive consumers to legitimate services such as Apple's iTunes - is no more likely to succeed, they say, because file-swappers (there are an estimated 57 million in the US alone) will gravitate to other services.Alternatives to the big P2P services such as KaZaA and Grokster have already sprung up. EarthStation5, for example, offers anonymising techniques. Other services, like Nullsoft's Waste, serve only small communities.With the rapid adoption of broadband, swapping online files is growing more popular than ever. In the past six months, no fewer than 50 new of P2P file-trading software programs have emerged, many with   technological advances that shield the identity of users.Clearly, consumers are willing to shop around to avoid the authorities. Blubster 2.5, a service with improved privacy, has been downloaded more than 3.3 million times since June 17."RIAA will have a much harder time penetrating these systems, and if their actions result in internet   users flocking towards them, they will probably regret overplaying their hand rather than trying to find a way to work with peer-to-peer networks to market and sell music," says James Plummer, a policy analyst for Consumer Alert in Washington.The idea of suing the public into submission instead of finding a way   to harness the traffic is flawed, warn technology advocates. Since 1999, sales of CDs in the US have dropped by one quarter.But the success of Apple Computer's iTunes Music Store - which sold 5m songs in the two months after it was launched - has given the music industry reason for optimism."What Apple's done is really deliver   to all of us a proof of concept here," said Michael Bebel, president of Napster, now a legitimate, but struggling, digital music service run by Roxio. "There are definitely people out there who are willing to pay for online digital music."The battle for the legitimate online market for music is soon likely to intensify as Apple prepares a Windows-based service and rivals adapt their offerings to compete.But few believe that any legitimate network can compete while the industry is so concentrated on fighting illegal downloaders. Last week, a new anti-piracy bill was introduced to Congress that will effectively bring the FBI into the fight against piracy.Under the proposals, the crime-fighting agency would be required to develop software to deter illegal online traffic and be required to "encourage sharing of information on suspected copyright violations"."The message up to now has been, 'No, no, no, no, no - be good kids, don't do it,' and everybody laughs at us, saying, 'What are you going to do, sue me? Are you going to risk the bad press?' I think we're at a moment where maybe we need really bad press," one label executive was reported as saying in the New York Times last week.Still, the record industry has now set its course. If it cannot close down the P2P systems (a recent court ruling decreed services such as Morpheus and Grokster were legal even if used for illegal purposes), then their users must be punished.As the RIAA's Sherman warned last week, the association will "keep filing lawsuits on a regular basis until people get the message".
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Saturday July 5 2003Tim Berners-Lee was not "the British inventor of the                              internet" as stated in this article. In fact, he                              invented the world wide web.-------------------In two weeks' time scientists in Geneva will throw the switch on the biggest development in global communication since Tim Berners-Lee, the British inventor of the internet, scrawled "www" on a blackboard in 1989. They will announce that 10 laboratories around the world, including one near Didcot in Oxfordshire, can now talk to each other through their computers.In the age of high-speed digital communication this may not seem revolutionary. But this small step for computer kind marks the launch of a new technological concept - the next generation of the web. It is called the grid, and scientists say that before long it will change everything we do - from scientific research to business to tackling fires to booking holidays, and even to the way we watch and craft movies.The internet currently consists of huge servers which contain information on web pages that is then downloaded onto computers. As a user, you are limited in what you can do with that information by how much memory or processing power your own computer has.Under the grid, the power of your   machine - all those gigabytes, RAM and gigahertz - will become irrelevant. No matter how primitive and cheap your computer, you will have access to more power than currently exists in the Pentagon."You just say I want this information and the &#91;grid&#93; is set up so that it goes out and collects that for you and makes it accessible," says Roger Cashmore, director of research at the European particle physics laboratory (Cern) near Geneva.The backbone of the grid will be computer centres filled with thousands of PCs linked together. Users will be able to use the programs, processing power or the storage they need as if it all existed on their own computer. And it is seamless -a user could be sitting tapping into their handheld on a train in England, using an application on a computer in the US and storing files in Thailand and still have unlimited computer power at their disposal.It will be a while before the grid has any impact on our lives. Like the web, the grid is being developed to help scientific research. Cern is currently building the large hadron collider (LHC), an enormous microscope to investigate the properties of matter. The LHC will produce phenomenal amounts of data as it accelerates protons to near the speed of light and smashes them together. Over a year, it will   produce some 500-800 million gigabytes of data. It would take a pile of CDs the height of the Eiffel tower to store that, says Mr Cashmore. To make any use of this mountain of information, scientists need a way to analyse and filter out what is useful and what can be tossed aside. To do that, huge quantities of computing power are needed. That is where the grid comes in."In a nutshell, the vision &#91;for the grid&#93; is you describe what the input data should be, where you want the output to go and what you want to happen on this data," says Ian Bird, one of those responsible for deploying the grid at Cern. Once the request has been submitted to the grid, specifically designed software - the resource broker - gets on the job.The resource broker acts as a user's agent on the network, picking out the best places to carry out the necessary work at the best prices and making sure everything runs smoothly. Like stocks and shares, computer power becomes a commodity: users can buy it whenever they need it.Bob Jones, a grid project manager who was at Cern when the original web was invented, talks of applications in biology - ever more genomes are being sequenced producing piles and piles of information.   The grid is the perfect way of analysing and sharing that data, he says.Like the electrical grid - which gives the system its name - the computing power will become available on demand. But it is about more than particle physics.A small handheld computer, connected by mobile phone to the internet, would become a supercomputer. Movies could be edited and watched on it. It could access a word processor that is stored on a computer somewhere in cyberspace.For the public to get access to the grid, it needs to be publicly available. The European Union is already considering a project to develop a network of computers available to the public.In Liverpool yesterday, a &#163;2m European grant was announced to build a research centre next to the Catholic cathedral which will develop business uses for the grid. Dennis Kehoe, Liverpool University's Saxby professor of e-business, says he is working on ways to use it to solve everyday problems."Say you are trying to plan how you deliver beer to all the pubs and clubs in the north-west of England or how you deliver social care to all the people in mid-Wales. Those are incredibly complex scheduling problems," said Professor Kehoe.It has other uses, too. Having the power   of several supercomputers at its disposal, a small architecture company could model buildings far more complex than any technology it could afford now.An example of the type of application already under consideration is the proposed FireGrid. Malcolm Atkinson, director of the national e-science centre in Edinburgh, which is coordinating the effort to develop grid applications in the UK, says there are two things you need to do quickly in a fire. First, people have to be evacuated. Second, firefighters need to know where to go, in and outside the building. If firefighters are getting information from detectors inside, computers can model how the fire will spread and help firefighters tackle the blaze.It took eight years for the internet to catch on, says Bob Jones. This time, governments and scientists are already on board, so the results will be seen far quicker. "It'll be like the web," said Mr Jones."When you have it you'll wonder how you ever got by without it."
EyeToy: PlaySony, &#163;39.99 PlayStation 2, ****Forget complicated controls, if you can move your body you can play EyeToy.Consisting of a nattily designed web camera - which plugs into the front of the PS2 - and a disc of games, EyeToy: Play is a breath of fresh gaming air. It is simple, but effective from the off. The camera works well, detecting your movements accurately and the games are easy to pick up. Wishi Washi, for example, sees you furiously scrubbing a virtual window. Plate juggling is an exhausting trial of fitness as much as anything, while keep ups - with a virtual football - and kung fu   are longer-term challenges.But most inventive is Rocket Rumble, which sees you setting off colourful and satisfying firework displays by moving your hands. If you tire of the constant physical exercise, the effects mode is good for a rest. If you've ever wanted to see yourself subjected to underwater effects, or Matrix-style bullet time, now you can. A nice touch is the photo facility, which lets you store "winning" and "losing" poses. Sadly, the quality of the photo taken when you top the high score of any game is disappointingly low resolution and excessively blocky.There is even a simplistic video-messaging facility that allows you to save to memory card. Unfortunately, the poor quality audio and visuals mean this is a novelty at best. Only one or two games offer anything more than short-term entertainment, and it's likely that single players will tire of seeing themselves on screen. But as a party game and something that everyone in the family will want to try, EyeToy: Play is a hoot.Greg HowsonFuturamaPlayStation2, Xbox, GameCube, &#163;39.99 SCi, ***Matt Groening's TV cartoon Futurama has garnered an enthusiastic following, and picking up its licence shows canniness on the part of Britsoft publisher SCi. To a large extent, though, SCi has played safe: Futurama is about as mainstream as you can get, and is not concerned with pushing back gaming boundaries.Instead, it blends action-adventure and platform-style gameplay with leaping about on the backs of crocodiles and so on, shooting mutants, aliens and Robo-hookers, and puzzle-solving by turning wheels and pulling levers. Hardcore gamers, then, will despise it, but the average Futurama fan should enjoy it.The cel-animation graphics are in keeping with the TV series, too, but perhaps the game's most impressive aspect is the plot. For once, it does not pale in comparison to its small-  screen counterpart. Clearly, it has benefited from the involvement of some members of the TV team, and Futurama's trademark dark humour is entirely present and correct. The result feels like an entirely plausible feature-length Futurama episode in which you call the shots.SCi could have endowed it with more imaginative gameplay, but Futurama is amusing and pleasant, if not taxing, to play, especially if you are a fan of the TV series.Steve BoxerWill RockPC, &#163;19.99 Ubi Soft/ Saber Interactive,&#42;&#42;&#42;Archaeologists used to be perceived as mild-mannered men, carrying  clipboards and old toothbrushes. The arrival of Indiana Jones made them seem rugged, Lara Croft sexed  them up and now Will Rock has taken up the trowel in Ubi Soft's PC game of the same name.As Twisted Sister's "I wanna Rock!" screams at you from the game's start-up screen, you know instantly that  you're in for a game that doesn't take itself too seriously. Rock is an archaeologist who is part of an  expedition to break into the lost City of the Greek Gods. Things go wrong and his mentor is killed, his ould-be girlfriend is captured by fanatical extremists and Rock becomes possessed by the spirit of Prometheus after he accidentally shoots a statue of the Greek Titan.Now he's part man, part myth and  must venture into the lost city, face down the mythical armies, beat the bad guys and get the girl back.Will Rock is an obvious clone of Croteam's third-person shooter Serious Sam, with the same gameplay concept - cruising through epic environments where hundreds of enermies run screaming or flapping towards you, while you try to master the art of tactical retreating (running backwards).The game is graphically quite nice, but the puzzles are basic and those who got bored with the "more is more" attitude of Serious Sam won't find much joy. Ultimately, it's mindless fun, but lacks the style and humour of the game it tries so hard to emulate.Rhianna Pratchett
Can Michael Dell keep on winning? Most successful computer companies grow rapidly as they exploit      their target market, then sales flatten, or even fall, when the world moves on.The ones that can no      longer grow revenues fast enough from internal developments often go out and buy them: for example,      Compaq bought Digital Equipment Corp, and Hewlett-Packard bought Compaq.So far, Dell's growth has been astonishing: its annual turnover has gone from less than $1bn in 1992 to      more than $35bn in 2002. Even though its growth has slowed in a flat PC market, it has almost doubled      its sales in the past four years. And if you bought Dell shares at $25.81 in 1992, they are now worth      $2,838.72.The question is: what happens next? Dell gave a partial answer last week, at its first Consumer Media      Day, held on the Round Rock campus near Austin, Texas. The guests included journalists from the      Guardian, the Sunday Times and the Financial Times, with a handful of other European reporters and      rather more Americans, from the Houston Chronicle to a pony-tailed Rolling Stone.At the moment, consumers only contribute 17% of Dell's global revenues - about $6bn a year. However,      it has managed to increase its share of the US consumer market from 5% in the first quarter of 2001      to 29% in the first quarter of 2003. Now it wants to make similar gains overseas.This probably is not going to affect business buyers much: Dell maintains a clear separation between its      business and consumer operations. Also, the products are different: there are Inspiron notebooks,      Dimension desktops and Axim handhelds for consumers and Latitude notebooks, OptiPlex desktops,      Precision workstations and PowerEdge/PowerVault servers for businesses. However, the consumer      market is viciously competitive, and this is likely to bring down the price of business PCs, too.The other part of the expansion strategy is to exploit Dell's website and fulfilment processes to deliver      vast numbers of products such as MP3 players, TiVo recorders, and Kodak and Canon digital cameras -      much like Amazon. In the past year, it has introduced Dell-branded projectors, palmtops and printers,      with more to come.Michael Dell said the company had benefited from standardisation in the data centre - the move to      PC-based computing - and home users were next. "Consumers tell us they want to connect their      computers, home networks and consumer electronics under an open, standards-based architecture," he      said. With standardisation, "the consumer always wins through lower costs and freedom from      proprietary products at unreasonable prices".Dell is betting on PCs forming the basis of the home hub, rather than entertainment-based products.       However, I suspect Dell's strategy of paring margins to the bone and using innovative manufacturing to      butcher the competition only works if buyers don't make fatuous support calls, which are very      expensive to handle.       Corporate buyers tend not to do that. With consumers, he may not be so lucky.
Limpopo is one of South Africa's poorest provinces. There are a lot of useful things its health service could do with &#163;14 million in overseas aid. It decided to spend the money on computers.The Limpopo integrated hospital information system, conceived in the honeymoon of democratic South Africa in the early 1990s, was Africa's largest healthcare informatics project by far. The idea was to computerise 42 hospitals, creating electronic health records that could be called up wherever they were needed.To IT firms, it was a lifeline. With the NHS market in the doldrums following some well-publicised disasters, UK sales teams promptly relabelled themselves "EMEA" (Europe, Middle East and Africa),   and headed south. After a fiercely fought procurement, the contract went to IBM. It was worth nearly &#163;14m, some 2.5% of the province's annual health and welfare budget - a higher percentage than the NHS was spending on IT at the time.The first hospital on the system went live in 1998, with the others due to be computerised over 18 months.It didn't happen. As soon as the rollout began, it ran into problems. The hospitals lacked proper computer rooms, air conditioning and power supplies. One shared a circuit with the local bakery, which caused power surges when the ovens were switched on each morning.Systems were not ready. According to an evaluation: "Many of the modules that were proposed in the initial plan were not created in   time. Certain key aspects of the system were not given adequate attention, such as reliability and ease of making printouts." In some hospitals, systems were down for six weeks at a time.The original contract ended in 2000 and the project was re-tendered. The new contractor, Ethniks, tried to introduce a new system. It failed, too. A formal review suggested "irregularities" and recommended that the project be put on hold, payments stopped and money already forwarded recovered.All this is on the public record because the Limpopo project was unusually - perhaps uniquely - well scrutinised. British researchers saw the project as an excellent chance to evaluate the impact of IT on health in the same way they would study the impact of   any other medical technique, with a random controlled trial. The results, published recently in the British Medical Journal, make uncomfortable reading. "In the 24 study hospitals that had the system installed, we found no significant differences in the quantitative outcome variables analysed." In other words, the technology - even when actually installed - made no measurable improvement to the practice of health care.Limpopo Province isn't England. But the project's overall aims - to make records available wherever patients are treated and to cut waiting times - were similar to those of the &#163;2.3bn national programme for IT in the NHS.Ominously, the researchers conclude that the reasons for failure in Limpopo were "similar to those in other countries".
Don't call usAmericans have flooded the Federal Trade Commission's free National Do Not Call Registry, launched last week on the web. The site got 1,000 visitors a second and logged 370,000 phone numbers in the first 12 hours. UK users can register their numbers online with the Telephone Preference Service, a service operated by the Direct Marketing Association (UK) Limited.www.donotcall.govwww.fpsonline.org.uk/tpsR/html/Register.aspWrite weekIn November, Trace, the online writing centre at Nottingham Trent University, is running a five-day residential workshop for writers and artists who work in "new media". It is being funded by Nesta, the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts, so it is all free. Tutors include Alt-X Network's Mark Amerika. Applications must be received by August 20.trace.ntu.ac.uk/writersforthefuture/textlab.cfmwww.markamerika.comNews easyIf you'd like to know what is being said about you or your company in Usenet newsgroups but find them too tedious to read, then you should find NetNews Tracker useful. It is a bot (software robot) that searches the newsgroups twice a day for the phrases of your choice, then emails you an excerpt and a link to the full posting. The service was created by journalist Kevin Savetz, who missed the old Stanford Netnews Filtering Service, which was taken over by Reference.com. The site has been up for a few months but recently appeared in the long-running Internet Tourbus.www.netnewstracker.comwww.TOURBUS.comCover liesThe Knockoff Project is one of the most delightful little sites. All it does is post album covers side by side, the original and the knock off. Although Yahoo comments that it "unmasks the lack of originality" of covers, most are parodies and some are funny. "Weird Al" Yankovic has some beauties, including his take-off of Michael Jackson's Bad, which is called Even Worse.www.plimsoul.com/knockoff_projectIncomingKarl Marx, Albert Einstein and Gloria Estefan have something in common: they were all refugees. The Refugee Council, a charity that works with refugees and asylum seekers in the UK, has launched a campaign to "demonstrate the valuable contribution that refugees make to the UK economy and society" - though it also acknowledges their right to be just as ordinary as the rest of us. You can go on to get a perfect score at the Refugee Challenge quiz, and donate cash to the cause at the official site.www.refugeechallenge.comToolbar 2Google has launched a new test version of its free toolbar for Internet Explorer 5.5 (or later) for Windows. New features include a pop-up blocker - since IE lacks one - and a Blog This button. This makes it easy to create a weblog entry pointing to a page you are visiting, as long as you are also using the Google-owned Blogger service.toolbar.google.com/index-beta.phpwww.blogger.comDolled upBarbie collectors who run out of Mattel products could turn to OOAK or "one of a kind" productions, in which case, there are whole webrings full of artists like Renee Coughlan doing delightful fairy-like "repaints and makeovers". Then there's Spatula Jackson. He has produced a number of alternatives, such as Vampirella Barbie, Latex Fetish Barbie, Dominatrix Barbie, Neo-Nazi Barbie and even Marge Simpson Barbie. Sometimes he sells them on eBay. Sometimes he also makes "fantasy Pez dispensers" - yes, there are much sadder things than collecting Barbie dolls.www.oneandonlydolls.com/barbie1.htmwww.geocities.com/SoHo/Workshop/8912www.geocities.com/RodeoDrive/1041/ring.htmldir.webring.com/rw?d=""Recreation___Sports/Toys/DollsBarbiewww.spatulaproductions.comhttp://pez.orgSix of the bestKatharine HepburnThe lifehttp://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2003/06/29/entertainment/main560882.shtmlThe filmshttp://us.imdb.comThe webringhttp://members.aol.com/khwebringThe fanswww.geocities.com/Hollywood/Studio/5217/kate.htmThe saleshttp://search.ebay.comThe greatestwww.afi.com/tv/stars.asp
Spammers crack itSorry chaps, the opting in and opting out thing has already been cracked by spammers (Online, June 26). Some malicious person decided to opt me in to something called FFA Links, which provides spammers with email addresses of people who have opted to receive commercial email, by means of an email "registration" purporting to come from my email address.By the time I discovered what had happened, FFA Links had informed scores of spammers that I had "registered". Unfortunately, FFA Links does not check all messages to ensure they have been sent by the person who appears in the From: line.There appears to be little I can do to stop the massive flow of spam this has generated - life is too short to check each "Received from" line to find out whose server the spams come from and then report it to the ISPs. The spammer has probably abandoned the account by the time anything can be done.Name and address suppliedNo big dealJames Harkin (Mob rules, June 26), seemed to indicate that the Chinese government was censoring the information on Sars. I was living in Shenzhen at that time and did not find that. The local health department did want to play down the risk of the disease to avoid panic, but the news came out on local TV and in papers. However, the story was not picked up by many other mass media because no one thought it was a big deal.James ChuBone of contentionAs a network administrator for several small companies in China, I have a different view on the "secure actions" of these "anti-spam" efforts (Online, June 26). Spam was originally created and abused from within the US. Some sources say the majority of spam received by European and US users still originates from the US.In the meantime, overzealous ISPs based in the US and Europe and the occasional technology expert like Jack Schofield advocate blocking  all mail originating from small areas of the world, such as China - one of the largest countries in the world and definitely one of the largest areas in the world with respect to business development and growth potential for the next 25 years.We westerners have for years been wondering why the Chinese have not opened up their borders more to multinationals and our business advances, and yet we don't even allow their mail to be routed through our "completely equal, open and unfiltered" internet medium.This becomes a point of contention for companies in China trying to communicate with the world via the fastest and most accurate business communications systems.Even if I run a sound email server, with full anti-spamming rules to prevent unauthorised abuse, and protect it with a firewall, I will never be able to have an IP address here that will be openly accepted by western ISPs, due to the prejudice shown by Schofield.Samuel RitterBuyer bewareOverheard at PC shop: woman with small son: "I want a laptop that will play DVDs on aircraft." Salesman: "There's only one they will allow you to use on aircraft, madam: this Apple PowerBook. It's got an aluminium case, so the radio waves don't escape and interfere with the plane's navigation."It is some years since I travelled on business, and actually used a plastic-  cased laptop, as did many others. Little did we know how close to disaster we'd been. That is, until I logged on to BA's website, and learned that the only restriction is that laptops may not be used when the seat-belt sign is on - normally take-off, landing and expected turbulence. Oh dear, caveat emptor of men shifting boxes.Geoffrey DaviesMaximum ironyChelsea Hardaway, publicising her firm's fight against jargon, is reported as saying: "We envision a centre of excellence where our accelerated change agents can maximise their core competencies." (Second Sight, June 26) Don't let anyone tell you that Americans have no sense of irony.Ken BulginNot good newsRegarding That won't do nicely (Online, June 26). This may not be good news for people who get mugged for their plastic: with the advent of chip and pin card payments we must surely expect to see more reports of people being terrorised for their Pins.Rob CameronPop operaRegarding Norman Meyer's comments about annoying pop-ups on websites (Feedback, June 26), there is a simple solution - the excellentOpera browser. Under File|Quick Preferences tick "Open requested pop-up windows only". This blocks all pop-ups, doesn't require third-party plug-in software, and I've never found a website that doesn't work as a result.Barney MossThe big projectThe excellent information in The world out there... (Business Solutions, June 26) missed one invaluable site -www.thebigproject.co.uk. This gives links to just about everything you could ever need.Peter Ward
MadisonIntel launched new versions of its 64-bit Itanium 2 processor this week, with the top speed increased from 1GHz to 1.5GHz. The Itanium, designed in partnership with Hewlett-Packard, was introduced two years ago but has been slow to attract users, due partly to a lack of 64-bit Linux and Windows software. However, several hardware manufacturers have just announced servers based on the new implementation, code-named Madison. These include Dell, HP, IBM, NEC, SGI and Unisys. A low voltage Itanium 2 code-named Deerfield, designed for use in rack-mounted servers and workstations, is expected later this year.Chip upAdvanced Micro Devices has extended its 64-bit server processor range with the Opteron 800 and 100 series, the launch coinciding with Intel's announcement of extensions to its 64-bit Itanium and high-end 32-bit Xeon ranges. The market is mainly confined to specialist servers that hold large amounts of data in memory, and scientific applications. AMD's 800 range implies up to eight chips per server, and there is a 100 for single-processor servers. The company claims a four-way server will cost less than &#163;7,000.www.amd.comGCHQ rappedGovernment Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) has been criticised for wasting millions of pounds on technology designed to gather intelligence on terrorist networks. The criticism - from the Intelligence and Security Commit tee, a government watchdog - singles out the Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) programme designed to monitor messaging systems such as radio and email. In reply, GCHQ points out that this sum accounts for less than a third of the programme. But it also states that lessons have been learnt and Office of Government Commerce best-practice guidance on programme management has been implemented.www.cabinet-office.gov.uk/reports/intelligence/pdf/annualir0203.pdfwww.cabinet-office.gov.uk/reports/intelligence/pdf/govres2003.pdfLinux NetwareNovell plans to launch its Netware network operating system on Linux this year and says the entire service will become available next year. The initial   bundle, Novell Nterprise Linux Services, will comprise directory, file and print, messaging and management services on the Red Hat and SuSE Linux distributions. Dell, HP and IBM, which analyst group Gartner reckons hold 75% of the Linux server market, have already promised to market the services and the move will boost Novell resellers by broadening Netware's scope.www.novell.com/linux/nterprise_linux_services.htmlVirtual lessonsHighwire, the borough of Hackney's City Learning Centre (CLC), is using video conferencing over the internet to link nine secondary and two primary schools to create virtual classrooms. The system, supplied by Polycom, allows teachers to deliver master classes to small groups across the borough, especially pupils with specific needs or interests. Specialised teaching is usually difficult to organise because teachers and pupils need to be in the same location. Zia Mehmet, Highwire Centre manager, said: "The benefits that video conferencing provides in terms of facilitating and enhancing the teaching provided within the borough are significant."www.highwire.org.ukOracle dealOracle is donating applications software, commercially worth more than &#163;4m, to 40 prospective specialist secondary schools. The schools will use the donation in lieu of half of the sponsorship money they need to allow them   to convert to specialist college status. Pupils aged between 16 and 19 will use the software to learn application development and database skills.But the National Association of Schoolmasters and Union of Women Teachers told IT news site Kablenet that there must be a suspicion that the scheme aims to ensure the schools use Oracle in future. The National Union of Teachers said such a deal should apply to all kinds of secondaries.www.kablenet.comFresh cookie lawAny website in the EU serving cookies from a website will soon have to inform users they are doing so, and tell them how to reject them. Law firm Masons has built a site offering the required explanations of how to disable cookies in different browsers. The firm says it will be kept up to date, and is inviting anyone to link to it to help them comply with the new law. The UK has until October 31 to implement the privacy and e-commerce European directive, which includes the rules on cookies. Last month, the Department of Trade and Industry finished a consultation on the subject.www.aboutcookies.orgAccentureIT consultancy Accenture has entered the e-democracy business by buying a company that spent a million dollars on the election.com web name. Accenture would not say how much it paid for the public sector assets of Election.com, originally founded as Votation.com before acquiring its name at the height of the dotcom boom. The creation of Accenture eDemocracy Services is a vote of confidence in the growing business of running online elections. Election. com operated several of the e-democracy pilots carried out in May's local elections. The Electoral Reform Society reported last month that e-voting had failed to raise turnouts at the polls.www.accenture.com
You might think public sector organisations would be the biggest users of software with no licence fee, with its inner workings open for all to inspect and alter.In the UK state sector, you would be wrong. Open source, the term used for such software, has been slow to catch on.For example, research firm Netcraft says that two-thirds of websites use the open source web server Apache. However, of the top 20 local authority websites (as judged by the Society of IT Management), only eight (40%) use Apache.The same number use Microsoft's equivalent, and the world's biggest software firm is not a supporter of open source: its underlying "source code" is not available to the general public, and most of its software requires licence fees.UK state sector projects using the best-known open source software, the Linux operating system, are very unusual. An online procurement system at the Department for Work and Pensions, announced in April, is thought to be the first in central government, and there are very few in local government.Things are different in Germany, where the third-largest city, Munich, announced in May that it will move all of its 14,000 desktop computers from Microsoft Windows to Linux. This was despite offers of financial help from Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, in moving to a new version of Windows.Schw&#228;bisch Hall, a city of 36,000 people 35 miles north-east of Stuttgart, is making a similar move. It has 416 desktop computer users in 11 locations - and a budget problem. "We want to save half our IT costs," says the city's IT director Horst Br&#228;uner.So the city is moving from software largely supplied by Microsoft to open source equivalents, including Linux. The shift was authorised in April last year and should be completed by the end of next year.The city reckons that Microsoft's annual licensing costs would have been &euro;250,000 (&#163;175,000). This includes upgrades, but "there's no real benefit", says Br&#228;uner, because he has to retrain staff. With no licence fees, staff can have a free copy of the software for home use.Furthermore, it cuts the tie to one big company. "Government has to be independent from big vendors," says Br&#228;uner.Schw&#228;bisch Hall is replacing Microsoft Office, which includes Word, Excel and PowerPoint, with   OpenOffice. This was originally designed as StarOffice by German firm StarDivision, but it was not a financial success.In 1999, the US software firm Sun Microsystems stepped in. "We liked the product, so we bought the whole company," says Mru Patel, UK head of desktop solutions for Sun. The cost of buying StarDivision was written off against the licence fees Sun would have paid for Microsoft Office, and the income from existing licence deals. Sun then made the core of StarOffice open source, calling it OpenOffice.Robin Bloor, president of IT analyst firm Bloor Research, says that Germany's enthusiasm is connected to the local origin and popularity of StarOffice, and the fact that SuSE, one of the main firms providing implementations of Linux, is based in Nuremberg. "Germany is a big enough market to start a trend right   through Europe," he says.Open source has the backing of some big IT firms. IBM is working with SuSE on Munich's and Schw&#228;bisch Hall's moves to open source, and, unlike Microsoft, has rebuilt much of its software to work on Linux.For its part, Microsoft says that other cities such as Frankfurt have chosen to stay with it, and argues   that the cost of changing to open source and maintaining it - known as the total cost of ownership - is higher than sticking with Microsoft.Countries including India, China and several in south America have other motivations for moving to open source, according to Nikos Drakos, a research director at analysts Gartner.Some see it as a way to boost their own software industries. "I think there are unrealistic expectations of the ability to base a software industry on open source software," says Drakos."On the positive side, you have transparent access to the technology, an opportunity without the licence barriers. On the negative side, you cannot create software companies of the kind based on proprietary &#91;non-open source&#93; software. It's not going to create a company like Microsoft."Anti-US sentiment plays a part: either a dislike of paying licence fees   to American companies, or a fear that the secret code of proprietary software contains "spyware" feeding data to American agencies."We don't think it's a valid reason for rejecting commercial software," says Drakos. "Unless you're a government or an agency with strong reasons to believe you may be spied on, we don't have any reasons to believe this is the case."And Microsoft has gone some way to meeting such concerns, by allowing government agencies access to its software's source code: the UK, Russia, Turkey and Nato have taken up the offer. "We're providing not only access to the code, but access to our teams in Redmond &#91;the company's headquarters&#93; on what the issues are with that country," says Alex Mercer, a Microsoft spokeswoman.Anti-American reasons are less likely to apply in the UK. However, there is interest here in what might be called "ajar-source": software which is not open source, but shares several of its features.Sun still produces a proprietary version of StarOffice, based on the open source OpenOffice but with extra frills, instructions, support and a CD-Rom, rather than a long internet download.StarOffice is cheaper than Microsoft Office, but Sun has cut the cost for schools and universities to a flat fee of &#163;20 per organisation. So far, around 1,200 schools and 100 universities have signed up. Pupils are also allowed home use for a few pounds each.Birmingham education authority, one of the country's biggest, is using StarOffice to stretch its central government grant for teachers' laptops: the city has provided 1,729 in the past year. "If we had stuck with Microsoft Office, we would only have just over 1,600," says Chris Mitton, a senior technical solutions consultant.He says that StarOffice works well with documents produced by Microsoft Office, and that staff need little retraining. "The key thing with StarOffice is, if you compare it with Microsoft Office and step back 20 paces, there is not much difference."Schools and teachers are allowed to choose Microsoft Office as well as StarOffice - the city will sell on and support the software. About half of this year's early laptop orders ask for Microsoft Office.Mitton stresses that Birmingham is not anti-Microsoft - for example, one school is piloting the latest version of Microsoft Office, 2003. "Our priority is to get the best value for our schools," he says. "If open source works, we will use it. If it doesn't, then we won't."
Did June 30, 2003 have any great significance in your life? No? If you didn't know what happened on that date, rest assured you were not alone.But if you are still a happy user of Windows NT 4.0 Workstation, then it mattered a lot, because Microsoft ceased to provide extended support for this operating system.There probably aren't many people still using that venerable product, apart from the Guardian, but the same cannot be said for Windows 98 and Windows 98 Second Edition (SE). On Monday, Microsoft ceased no-charge incident support for those operating systems and, at the same time, ended their extended hotfix support. Mainstream support, if you didn't know, ended one year ago on June 30.If you need support now, it will cost you on a per-incident basis, until that support ends on January 14. You do get three free calls as part of your purchasing agreement, and if your call is on a security issue, that also slips under the "pay-me" net, as would any call on a virus-related front. There is also a very good online resource for Windows 98 and Windows 98 SE users: the Support Center Windows 98.This site gives you access to a host of resources, one of which should enable you to resolve your problem without having to reach deep into your pockets. The address is:http://support.microsoft.com.Theoretically, this site is slated to remain available for "at least a year", but I would be surprised if it vanished shortly after that year is up, mainly because I can't see how removing it would benefit anyone. The amount of disk space that could be recovered would be insignificant, so expect to see it there for some time to come.Nothing lasts forever, but I think   Microsoft has made a mistake in this particular case. Granted, Windows NT 4.0 Workstation users are hardly thick on the ground, but the number of households, never mind businesses, still using variants of Windows 98 almost certainly runs into the millions.One reason for these operating systems' survival is that they are still important to anyone trying to run educational software and games. I trawled through our three-and-a-half-year-old son's collection of preschool software, and his collection of indispensable games - and if you don't think they are indispensable, you are welcome to explain to him why he had to be upgraded to a supported OS that won't let him rescue Thomas the Tank Engine - and mentions of anything other than Windows 9x were few and far between.Schools running older Lego Dacta control kits with software that only runs under Windows 98 are not going to be thrilled at the prospect of paying for support calls, any more than the parents of children demanding, not unreasonably, to know why their programs won't work.Many of the issues with preschool software and children's games may well be resolved when designers have made them compatible with Windows XP but, for the moment, there will still be the calls for help as systems freeze, for ludicrously overloud volumes on the sound files, and other issues of which anyone who has children will be only too painfully aware.It is a shame that the people who are going to be hardest hit by the dropping of free support will be those who can least afford to pay - small businesses with old PCs, schools and parents.Do you know if your applications are still supported? Visit this web page and follow the various links to find out:http://support.microsoft.com/?scid=fh;en-gb;lifecycle
What makes a good blog?My blog is a memory tool - there are bits and pieces of information I need to keep track of. The thing I like about blogs is that you're reading over the shoulder of people who've looked at things you haven't had time to look at. Blogs are fantastic tools for staying abreast of more information than you could possibly handle on your lonesome.Is blogging here for the duration?Something like blogging will always be around as it's just the next generation of personal publishing on the internet. What distinguishes blogging from everything else is that it's highly optimised for sharing, re-linking, cross-linking and building what amounts to a distributed conversation. Hence, there's this unholy conundrum in blogging as to whether you allow comments on your blog and consequently lettrollsargue with you. Increasingly, people are looking at how you can make tools that will allow other people to respond to your blog on their blog.OS X?With OS X, every major operating system is now a Unix variant except Windows! In some ways, Unix systems are all equivalent, they have advantages and disadvantages, but pretty much all the software for one runs on the other. I have any amount of Linux software running on my Mac now.Any thoughts on the RIAA's intention to sue file sharers?I think it's an astonishing move... there are more Americans sharing files than voting in   presidential elections! The idea of turning them all into unindicted criminals is a bad idea. It's a bad deal for everyone. We've run into these technological conundrums before with internet radio, cable television and so on. What we've done is changed the way copyright works and created a compulsory licence where people who use the service pay a small fee, which gives them the right to share the files they want. The fee isdispersed to artists and copyright holders. It's a fair deal that doesn't require "breaking" the internet to stop something the market clearly demands!What technology do you travel with?I have aJavaPhoneaniPod, a T-Mobile &lt;A HREF="http://www.danger.com"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;Sidekick, which is a two-way pager/email information manager, and a tinyCasio Exilim2 mega pixel camera. There's also a 12in PowerBook with a wireless card. I usually travel with aWireless Access Pointso I can roam with it if near a connection.How did you find London for hotspots?I had a hard time finding any but then I discovered*www.hotspotted.com, which has listings and reviews of public hotspots. That's how I found theTinderbox in IslingtonVisit:http://craphound.comandwww.eff.orgDoctorow's weblog is at:http://boingboing.net
Richard M Smithon the people who last edited that dossier.... and the Sydney Morning Heraldstory. [Thanks to Bonnie Britt for the links.]
UK journalist Guy Kewney took an IBM X31 Centrino-based ThinkPad to Microsoft's TechEd in Barcelona towatch the battery run down....Comment: How times change. I once took a Sony PCG-1 mini-notebook PC to a Sun Java conference. I opened it at 10.30 for a Gosling talk and it was flat by noon. However, I do get at least a full day out of a littleIBM 240x ThinkPad.. . by packing two "fat batteries" and a thin one.
ISPs usually hate peer-to-peer file sharing services such as KaZaA because of the vast amounts of bandwidth consumed. Obvious solution: keep the most-requested files on a local server. Wanadoo Netherlands is doing it now, reportsThe Register....
IDG reports as follows: Unsolicited commercial e-mail costs US companies $874 per employee per year in lost productivity, according to a report released yesterday from independent research company Nucleus Research Inc. The report, titled "Spam: The Silent ROI Killer," details the results of interviews with employees and IT administrators at 76 US companies. The $874 figure is based on an hourly pay of $30 and a work year of 2,080 hours, Nucleus said. (morehere)Comment: What's really amazing is that "The average employee receives 13.3 spam messages each day," according to the report. I thought everybody got at least 50....
"Kazaa distributor Sharman Networks and partner Altnet hope their new group, called the Distributed Computing Industry Association (DCIA), will help legitimize the much-maligned peer-to-peer industry, which has come under fire from Hollywood, politicians and the recording industry for being a haven for pirates," reportsCNet.
A Californian court has cleared a former Intel worker of wrongdoing for using the microchip maker's email to fire off disparaging messages to 35,000 workers at the firm, in a case that tested the boundaries of free speech online.Intel had accused the man, Kenneth Hamidi, of trespassing on its computer servers, in much the same way that someone could be prosecuted for intruding on private property.Laws governing the internet are in their infancy and regulations covering the use of email are closely watched. The deluge of spam is forcing governments and software companies worldwide to find ways of stemming the tide.California supreme court was divided but found in Mr Hamidi's favour four to three.Justice Kathryn Werdegar, in the majority verdict, said: "He no more invaded Intel's property than does a protester holding a sign or shouting through a megaphone outside corporate headquarters, posting a letter through the mail or telephoning to complain of a corporate practice," she said.The case should not be taken as a precedent for senders of spam or other unsolicited emails. Trespassing could still be used to prosecute if a mass mailing caused disruption or damage to a company's computer network, she said.Mr Hamidi, a former engineer at Intel in Silicon Valley, became a thorn in the company's side after he was fired in 1996. He set up an organisation called Former and Current Employees of Intel and began sending out information attacking the company.Over a 21-month period he sent six mass emails to thousands of Intel employees. Mr Hamidi, who had been prevented from emailing Intel workers by an injunction in place since 1998, vowed to resume his email campaign. "This was a very clear case of people versus corporations and people won," he told the San Francisco Chronicle.An Intel spokesman said: "We're evaluating the ruling to determine what steps we will take should Mr Hamidi start spamming again."One of the dissenting justices said the court had effectively condoned an electronic invasion of property."Intel should not be helpless in the face of repeated and threatened abuse and contamination of its private computer system," said justice Richard Mosk.
A third of all unwanted emails received by children are hardcore pornography, according to new research released today as MPs meet to discuss the growing problem of spam.Children's charity NCH has added its voice to the growing pressure on internet service providers such as Freeserve and AOL, as well as popular email services such as Microsoft's Hotmail, to better filter their customer's inboxes to cut out unwanted emails, known as spam.The call came ahead of today's summit held by MPs in London to discuss the growing number of spam emails, which now account for more than half of all emails received.According to MessageLabs, a company providing anti-spam software, there has been a huge growth in unwanted emails over the past year.It said that the problem had grown to such an extent that the emails now represented 55% of all those received, up from just 2.3% in June last year.John Carr, internet consultant at NCH, is among those speaking at today's summit hosted by MPs on the All Party Internet Group."Hardly a week seems to go by without another appalling case reaching the courts where a child has been sexually assaulted by another paedophile they first met online," he said."We believe to limit the dangers internet service providers which allow children to have web addresses should use the best possible anti-spam software," added Mr Carr.For their part, ISPs insist they are doing as much as they can to tackle the problem, with many of them recently introducing new software to try and deal with the threat of spam. But MPs are likely to argue today that the measures do not go far enough.Much of the junk mail, including adverts for porn, is sent from outside the EU and are virtually impossible to trace.New EU laws to govern spam recently came into force but are likely to do little to stem the flow of emails promoting get rich quick schemes, pornography and chain letters.In a further setback for campaigning groups looking to stem the flood of unwanted mail, the California supreme court yesterday ruled that spammers could not be sued under state law for property trespass.The move was a blow for computer giant Intel, which had sued a former engineer for sending emails to up to 35,000 company workers.The 4-3 ruling reversed an earlier decision that prohibited former Intel engineer Ken Hamidi from sending emails critical of Intel to thousands of its employees.Intel claimed the emails had trespassed on its private network and had harmed the company by reducing worker productivity. But the court found that Intel's computer system had not been physically damaged as a result of the emails and that, therefore, there was no trespass.The court declined to expand state common law covering property trespass to apply to email whose contents may be objectionable, but which is otherwise harmless."Creating an absolute property right to exclude undesired communications from one's email and web servers might help force spammers to internalise the costs they impose on ISPs &#91;internet service providers&#93; and their customers," the court wrote."But such a property rule might also create substantial new costs, to email and e-commerce users and to society generally, in lost ease and openness of communication and in lost network benefits," it added."In light of the unresolved controversy, we would be acting rashly to adopt a rule treating computer servers as real property for purposes of trespass law."&#183;To give MediaGuardian a story emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
Pop singer Rachel Farris's independent record label is "embedding mini-CDs in the lids of soft drink cups at movie theaters nationwide and a few theme parks" in the US, reportsAP.Laboured pun department: according to this timeline forpop, the term was used for soft drinks in 1861.
