Two bloggers have been detained by authorities in France on suspicion of encouraging people to take part in the Paris riots.A 16-year-old French teenager and an 18-year-old of Ghanaian nationality are being questioned by Paris prosecutors, according to reports.One of the blogs was called "sarkodead", a reference to the interior minister and presidential contender, Nicholas Sarkozy, who referred to the rioters in disparaging terms and has been singled out for criticism by many French bloggers.The pair have been placed under investigation, which is a step short of formal charges under French law, for "inciting harm to people and property over the internet".Sarkodead and the second blog - called "hardcore" - were suspended last weekend, according to judicial officials in Paris.French bloggers have been divided over their attitude to the riots. Some have tried to calm the situation, while others have tried to inflame the situation."I have never got how turning where you live into a war zone proves anything," said "bobcoloredglasses"."If anyone in the ghetto is reading this and is ever part of a riot, try rioting in the mayor's neighbourhood. I bet you get a much faster reaction, and you can go back to your house that hasn't been wrecked."Another blogger wrote: "It is not by firing teargas into a mosque - in Ramadan - how one restores order. Peace is gained by meeting people. Unfortunately this long-term work does not figure in the presidential planning of Mr Sarkozy. Sarkozy will never be my president."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Anyone been playing GTA on the PSP? I'm reviewing it in a couple of weeks for the paper. It is a technical marvel really - and I am generally enjoying it - but the controls and camera are as annoying as ever. The ropey analogue stick on the PSP doesn't help. There isn't any assistance when it comes to playing on the move either, with the same annoying delay in restarting missions. And when you look at these, with their wildly swinging difficulty levels, it's easy to get frustrated.Despite all this I'm still enjoying it. Wreaking havoc is the same adrenaline rush as before, and it is easy to get wrapped up in the chaos. Also the radio stations are as amusing as ever - more games need classical music - although the lack of really recognisable tracks is a letdown . I still think Warren Spector had a point last week though, when hetalkedabout the lack of non-violent NPC interaction in the game. GTA on PSP then, so far it's generally impressive, but it does have flaws.
It was the celebrity endorsement they were all after. Imagine it - the zeitgeist-popping combination of fashionable sport, greyhound racing, with top celebrity hardman, Vinnie Jones. Certainly the stuff of entertainment marketing dreams and now a reality thanks to mobile games publisher, Player One. Vinnie Jones Greyhound Racing has arrived. Here's a funny bit from the press release:Pete Russell, Managing Director for Player One, commented: "Vinnie Jones loves his greyhounds and we are delighted he is working with us on this unique title. To take time out from his busy filming schedule shows how much Greyhound racing means to Vinnie and we believe this game has captured the excitement of the sport from both a betting and racing perspective and shows why people like Vinnie get so passionate about Greyhound racing."A couple of weeks ago I wrote apiecein the newspaper about how the mobile games industry seems to be run almost exclusively by jokers. Every week they seem intent on proving me right. How did this deal came about?Whydid this deal come about? In an increasingly globalised industry it is incredible that a thuggish ex-Wimbledon footballer, who somehow managed to headbutt his way into the movie industry, is now endorsing a Java game about an obscure British working mans sport.The screenshot looks pretty good, though, doesn't it? Sort of Final Furlong with dogs. Actually, this idea is growing on me. It could be Vinnie's most important role sinceSubmerged!
Dell is pushing PCs and notebooks with Windows XP Media Center Edition 2005 (MCE). If buying a PC for home use with an Internet connection, which operation system would you recommend? M StammerI recently recommeded XP Media Center Edition 2005 and would go for that. It provides TV tuner and video functionality, and can also be operated via a remote control. You can check out the features athttp://www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/mediacenter/evaluation/features.mspxand a review on theWindows Supersite.MCE is rapidly becoming the standard because Microsoft has changed the rules and no longer requires MCE PCs to include a TV tuner card.
So far, 132 people have voted forthe best geek novels written in English since 1932, in spite of Survey Monkey's rubric saying free polls were limited to 100 responses. The top 20 is therefore as follows, with the numbers in brackets showing the number of votes.1. The HitchHiker's Guide to the Galaxy -- Douglas Adams 85% (102) 2. Nineteen Eighty-Four -- George Orwell 79% (92) 3. Brave New World -- Aldous Huxley 69% (77) 4. Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? -- Philip Dick 64% (67) 5. Neuromancer -- William Gibson 59% (66) 6. Dune -- Frank Herbert 53% (54) 7. I, Robot -- Isaac Asimov 52% (54) 8. Foundation -- Isaac Asimov 47% (47) 9. The Colour of Magic -- Terry Pratchett 46% (46) 10. Microserfs -- Douglas Coupland 43% (44) 11. Snow Crash -- Neal Stephenson 37% (37) 12. Watchmen -- Alan Moore &amp; Dave Gibbons 38% (37) 13. Cryptonomicon -- Neal Stephenson 36% (36) 14. Consider Phlebas -- Iain M Banks 34% (35) 15. Stranger in a Strange Land -- Robert Heinlein 33% (33) 16. The Man in the High Castle -- Philip K Dick 34% (32) 17. American Gods -- Neil Gaiman 31% (29) 18. The Diamond Age -- Neal Stephenson 27% (27) 19. The Illuminatus! Trilogy -- Robert Shea &amp; Robert Anton Wilson 23% (21) 20. Trouble with Lichen - John Wyndham 21% (19)There are two surprises for me. First, I'm amazed Neal Stephenson didn't do better: he is probably the ultimate geek novelist, being a bit of a geek himself. Second, I'm very impressed by the support for Watchmen, the graphic novel. And while I'm not surprised The Illuminatus! Trilogy didn't do better, I think more of you should read it -- or at least the first book,The Eye in the Pyramid!The following five books attracted the most votes against.Dune -- Frank Herbert 17% (17) Neuromancer -- William Gibson 13% (15) I, Robot -- Isaac Asimov 12% (13) Foundation -- Isaac Asimov 13% (13) The Colour of Magic -- Terry Pratchett 12% (12)Finally, the saddest statistics for me were the ones for John Brunner's books, which recorded high scores in the Not read it/Don't care category, as follows.Stand on Zanzibar -- John Brunner 85% (77) The Shockwave Rider -- John Brunner 88% (80)I really enjoyed these books when I read them, though that was a long time ago. The sadness comes from the fact that Brunner was a British novellist, a good bloke, and used to drop me the occasional note (usually askng for advice about computing) in the days when I edited Computer Guardian. He died of a stroke during the World Science Fiction Convention in Glasgow in 1995.Footnote: The short-list was drawn up based on comments toWhat are the top 20 geek novelson October 26, with voting atSurvey Monkey.
Twenty-five years after his death, John Lennon's entire solo catalogue is to be made available to a new generation of music fans after his record company announced that his back catalogue would be available to download for the first time.EMI said yesterday that the Working Class Hero greatest hits album would be made available immediately, with the rest of his solo work to follow next month. The move could be a precursor to the Beatles' work going digital. But Lennon's tracks will not be available on iPods because of a row between the record industry and Apple computers over wholesale rates.
There was an excruciating advertising feature in today's Metro newspaper. The section, sponsored by the sci-fi channel, had a feature on the "new gaming geek", a "cool and sexy" female reviews ed on a gaming magazine. "Yes, that's right. She's a girl. And she games", was how the breathless article continued, before wondering whether she had been "stuck on the same level for the past 800 hours". Rather than asking the important questions, like how anyone can afford to be "cool and sexy" on games magazine wages, the article simply couldn't get over the shock that a woman was a keen gamer. Aleks - you'd have loved it.
The hype - and, presumably, the stress levels of senior MS execs - are intensifying for the 360 launch, with confirmation of atwo-day partyin the Mojave desert. The event will see thousands of gamers playing the launch titles - assuming they get finished, of course - while listening to live music fromLouis XIV. Peter Moore, Worldwide Marketing VP of Zen bizarrely describes the event as, "the ultimate Xbox 360 oasis". If you are European, very keen, and can fund your own travel, then there are 3000 tickets up for grabs. When it comes to launch events, MS have clearly upped the ante. Whether they have done the same with gaming remains to be seen.
Anyone with experience of US airports since 11 September, 2001 will appreciatePersuasive Games' latest serious (but highly entertaining) title,Airport Insecurity, "a game about inconvenience and the tradeoffs between security and rights in American airports". The long queues, self-important TSA staff who could pass for monsters from the deep in a blind test, corporate coffee every three feet to tide you over as you wait for the 3 1/2 recommended hours before take-off... The email from the company's CEO Ian Bogost (he ofwatercoolergames) in my inbox caught me laughing, in a kind of knowing, smug way:Airport Insecurity is a game about inconvenience and insecurity in American airports. While the government wants you to believe that increased protection and reduced rights are necessary to protect you from terrorism, the efficiency and effectiveness of airport security practices is dubious. Airport Insecurity allows you to explore these issues in context: the game's rules are based on government reports about airport security practices since 2002.And here's the best bit:To consider the game's implications fully, players are encouraged to play the game while waiting in line at airport security.Persuasive Games - "a leading developer of videogames for social change, education, and persuasion" - most notably were responsible for two political games released to critical success in the run up to the 2004 US election,Dean For AmericaandTake Back Illinois. You can buy Airport Insecurity andemulate it(Java and reg. required), or you can buy it for a Nokia mobile phone (Series 60)If you want to hear it all from the horse's mouth, Ian's in London next week for theEuropean Advertising in Games Forum.
"Apple Computer customers in Mexico and the United Kingdom have joined the legal crusade to make the Silicon Valley company pay for allegedly defective screens on new iPod nano music players, lawyers said. A class-action lawsuit on behalf of all iPod nano buyers in Mexico and the United Kingdom was filed in the US District Court for Northern California on November 4," reportsAFP."The latest suit named Ben Jennings of the United Kingdom as plaintiff."
Last week, David Jaffe, Game Director on excellent PS2 hack-'em-up, God of War,bloggedabout the state of videogame journalism. Specifically, he complained about games magazines that refer to the videogame industry as 'our industry' - not out of elitism ("It's not like I'm trying to close the doors to others and say: NO! YOU CAN'T PLAY IN OUR LITTLE CLUB!"), but out of a belief that these publications should analyse and comment on the industry from an objective standpoint:"I want game journalism- at least 50% of it- to be more like music or film journalism of old. I want it to challenge us and tear our shit apart and analyze it and- when we do a good job- champion it and bring the message to the masses."The piece has inspiredplentyofcomment- mostly because it taps into some pretty fundamental questions about videogame writing: how closeshouldjournalists be to the videogame publishers that provide review code and access to developers (quite important elements of most videogame mags), and do a majority of readers actuallywantinvestigative journalism, rather than upbeat, easily digestible previews and reviews?Ibloggedabout this in some depth several months ago, and stand by what I wrote back then - magazines merely respond to the desires of their readership. Jaffe namechecks the pioneering film writing of the seventies, and the power held by critics like Pauline Kael, but the heavily politicised climate of that era cannot be replicated now, as he himself concedes while berating the current movie magazines.Empire readers are more interested in Top 50 features and blockbuster previews than in-depth exposes on the inner workings of the movie industry. NME has turned into an indie Smash Hits - a saturated technicolour comic book of gooey fan-dom. Meanwhile, in line with the status quo, games players are often just looking for screenshots of forthcoming mega-sequels. Is it the journalist's responsibility to turn that around? I mean, we're talking about games here, not the oft-quoted example of Watergate. No one's lives are going to be blown apart by revelations concerning a major videogame publisher......Okay, Jaffe isn't asking for the videogame equivalent of Supersize Me or No Logo, he's just asking for mature, considered and stimulating analysis of videogames. But the general trend in consumer magazine publishing is away from wordy features and toward sound bites and photo journalism. It has been for a long time.As for games writers talking about 'our industry' - that's just a relic of the days when the industry reallywassomething of a boy's club, a derided community looking to create a unified voice. It is a mainstream business now, and I'd be surprised if any games writers under the age of 25 are using the phrase.Here's the thing. There is a minority of videogame players whocareabout the industry, who want to see it brought to task for its failings - of which there are many (as with all other entertainment industries). The rest want to know whether they should buy the latest Grand Theft Auto or not. And in the background are the powerful publishers with an agenda of their own.Mainstream games journalism operates somewhere in the middle, attempting to appease all three. In order for change, if change is indeed required, somebody has to be omitted from the equation.Who will it be?
"Grokster Ltd, which lost a Supreme Court fight over file-sharing software popular for stealing songs and movies online, agreed Monday to shut down and pay $50 million to settle piracy complaints by Hollywood and the music industry," reportsAP."The surprise settlement permanently bans Grokster from participating, directly or indirectly, in the theft of copyrighted files and requires the company to stop giving away its software, according to court papers."
"The celebration, which was part of Vintage Computer Festival at the Computer History Museum here, was a lovefest for several mavericks of technology. And amid tales of building some of the world's first personal computers, the adoring audience of Silicon Valley elders got to hear a series of nostalgic stories about the history of one of the most influential computer users' groups of all time," reportsCNet.Founded in 1975, the Homebrew Computer Club boasted a series of very well-known technologists. Among them was Steve Wozniak, the co-founder of Apple Computer and a man known for his particular skill in putting together rudimentary, yet powerful, personal computers."It was the most important thing in my life and every two weeks I lived for it," Wozniak told CNET News.com, speaking of the Homebrew Computer Club. "I was too shy to even speak at all. The only two times I ever spoke were to introduce the Apple I and the Apple II."
"Companies that wish to engage with the blogosphere face an intractable credibility problem. Bloggers are an anti-establishment lot, and messages from big business are automatically suspect. In bloggers' eyes, most companies' attempts to insert themselves into online conversation come across as ham-fisted at best, and disingenuous at worst," reports theFinancial Times."Business blogging recently took centre stage at BlogOn, a blogging conference in New York, where media consultancy Guidewire Group released a survey that found that big and small companies are rushing to adopt blogging as a business tool. Now some companies have begun to find ways to interact successfully with the blogosphere. The key to success, it turns out, is to take the company out of the picture and let the employees do the blogging."The article also includes IBM's core blogging guidelines for employees.
We get a pop up screen every so often that says something like "Your registry is corrupted. You need to clean it up. Go to www.registry-cleaner.com" or something similar (there seem to be about three or four varieties). I know it's important to sort out the Windows Registry, but is this a virus or spyware or, god forbid, for real? Nick TempleMany companies try to sell things this way. The pop-up tells you your registry needs cleaning, or you have viruses or something similar, and directs you to free diagnostic software. Download this and it may find dozens or even hundreds of errors. The catch is that you have to pay something like $20 to $40 to register the program so that it will remove the errors.Of course, the fact that the program "finds" lots of problems doesn't necessarily mean they exist!Frankly, I would recommendneverbuying anything sold this way. There are perfectly good free registry cleaners, virus checkers and other utilites on the web. The good ones are reviewed in magazines, recommended in web forums and mentioned in columns like Ask Jack. Also, you can always run a search on the company or product name before you decide on a download.One good free registry cleaner isCCleaner-- it cleans other sorts of crap as well, such as temporary Internet files. If you find it useful, you can make a donation via PayPal.
There are certain games that are so well designed, so beautifully realised, that dangle the carrot so temptingly before your eyes that loading them up guarantees you'll find yourself with eyes bleeding unable to leave the flickering blue screen at three o'clock in the morning.They don't have to be big or clever (in fact, it's better if they aren't), but they have to suck you in and never spit you out.As the list season has started on the telly, below are gamesblog's top five most useless (but demanding) games. Please feel free to add your own. After all, everyone needs a little more distraction.TetrisWe have Alexey Pazhitnov to thank for this one. Like some kind of crazy drug, Tetris invaded the West through a seemingly innocent apparatus - the Nintendo GameBoy - and then stole our collective souls. Without a doubt responsible for the initial success of the new handheld product, this little puzzle game has spawned thousands of clones and is reportedly very popular amongst the ladies because, ahem, putting the four differently-shaped blocks into order is like tidying up (I blame the Armchair Assassin - whose site's no longer live - for this theory). Tetris was only as good as you were; with no time limit you could, for example, drive from New Orleans, LA to Pensacola, FL for your summer holiday (about an eight hour drive) and not look out the window once.Panel de PonThis is a new one in my repertoire, but it kept me in bed for almost four hours on Sunday afternoon, trying to match three or more different shapes together by moving tiles from side to side. Expect seriousCarpal Tunnelwhen played on the newGameBoy Micro. No surprise, it's called Tetris Attack in the West.TringoThe brainchild of aSecond Liferesident, Tringo is the ultimate multiplayer time-waster. It, like Panel de Pon, is a Tetris-related product, but the game, soon to be released into thefirst lifein one form or another, challenges players to rack up as many points as possible by clearing squares using each Tetris block once as they come up on the screen. The winner wins riches - literally, Linden Bucks.ChuChu Rocket!It was the innovator in the online console gaming scene, launching the Sega Dreamcast and its online portal. Fast and furious, this game left the player breathless and slightly manic after each round of strategically placing barriers between hungry cats and frantic mice. Quite literally insane. If you were able to get past the initial panic, you were sucked in for life. Players were invited to design their own game boards to torture the souls of fellow Chu Chu fanatics, which meant the fun never....never stopped.Solitaire/PatienceI have lost family members to this one. This single-player card game is the ultimate waste of time, and is distractingly included on any Windows PC.
Last week, Iposteda link to an interview with Shigeru Miyamoto, taken from Business Week magazine. In it, the Nintendo legend said, "I've always thought that games would eventually break free of the confines of a TV screen to fill an entire room."Well, it seems he's not alone in this unlikely belief. Electronics giant Philips has just announced itsamBXtechnology, a sort of 'sensory surround experience' that will use compatible household appliances to enhance the sights and sounds of each gaming experience. Confused? You should be.But here's a little bit of explanation from today's press release:"Imagine the room of the future, where all electronic devices are amBX-enabled. The treacherous road to Saigon will turn your room jungle green, swimming with dolphins will splash it deep blue, 'Halo' jumps will turn your fans on full, lightning storms will strobe your white lighting, and attack ships on fire off the shoulder of Orion will blast on your heaters."Incorporating a scripting language, software engine and architecture, amBX has been designed to deliver all-new player experiences through enabled devices such as LED colour-controlled lights, active furniture, fans, heaters, audio and video, which are all placed in the user's room. amBX goes even further to provide the support framework for peripheral manufacturers to develop these enabled products, empowering both developers and publishers to amBX-enable and enhance their games. In the future, game players may even be able to author and share their own personal amBX experiences online."But do wereallywant to be blasted with heat and/or gusts of wind while playing? It is a curiously low-fi approach to sensory immersion, like the tricks B-movie directorWilliam Castleused to play on cinema-goers. How long before we're rigged up to electric shock units and polygraph tests? It's a slippery slope - one day you're laughing about the fan going on full blast during Resident Evil 10, the next you're having to explain to your girlfriend why you won't answer the question about wearing her underwear in Sony's hit new social game, LieToy...
Anyone see theTV programmeabout the 360 last Friday? I'm not sure how happy Microsoft will be after it. Yes, it showed the human side of the pressure involved getting the new console and games ready for release this year - UK boss Neil Thompson is clearly earning his money at the moment. But the show was let down by the classic games-on-TV cliché, namely that games are for children. The "experts" were a group of 10yr old boys, all of whom rated the PS2 more than Xbox. The programme makers clearly forgetting that the biggest selling game series - GTA - is 18 rated.Anyway, it got worse. While making the correct assumption that Microsoft needs to grow the market and attract casual gamers it asked, get this, a group of young mums whether they would be interested in the 360. In my limited experience of parenthood a new mum has barely got time for a shower, never mind capture the flag on Halo 2. And even then the presenter didn't mention Live Arcade, which would have probably appealed.There were other annoyances - someone from the Guardian saying that there is no difference between 360 and PS3 (er, has anyone actually played on the PS3?) - and I'm not sure what benefit, if any, MS gained from it. Games and TV then - the misunderstanding goes on.
Any suggestions for an appropriately matching name for one of a pair of new kittens, given that we fancy calling the other Pixel'? ((Not an original starting point, I know.) John ClareThere are quite a few cats called Pixel, some with Web sites -- nice use of the .mu domainhere! This is thanks mainly to Robert Heinlein's book,The Cat Who Walks Through Walls.You can also getPixel Cat T-shirtsfrom Cafepress.The obvious suggestions are Pixel and Shader, or Pixel and Buffer. Anyone got a better idea?
Following Time magazine's lead in listing 100 great books, I wondered about the Top 20 geek novels written in English since 1923,below. Following suggestions made in comments, I've put up a list of 30 candidates at Survey Monkey soclick here to vote for the ones you think should make it.This is a straight popularity poll, so you can vote YES for all 30 books to be in the Top 20, though there's not much point in doing that. If you don't think a much-loved book should be in the Top 20, because it's not geeky enough, just grit your teeth and vote NO.Sorry, the free version of the site only allows for 100 participants, but I think it's probably enough. Please don't try to vote more than once.Update:3pm Monday: 76 people have participated so far....
James Fallows from The Atlantic Monthly spent a day visiting Yahoo to find out what it's doing. InThe New York Times, he reports: "After talking with the chief executive, Terry S. Semel, and other officials, I came away with two big impressions. One is that while Yahoo is ever conscious of Google and determined to match it head to head in familiar keyword search, in the long run its plans for search seem quite different from Google's. The other is that Yahoo views the very scale and sprawl of its operations - the seemingly random assemblage of sites and functions, the 200 million active users in more than 20 countries - as a crucial competitive advantage."What is different is Yahoo's systematic plan to build "community intelligence" into nearly all aspects of its operation - and in turn, to entice users to spend more and more of their time on Yahoo sites, where they can see Yahoo ads. The clearest example, of many I heard about, can be seen athttp://myweb2.search.yahoo.com, the beta version of a new search site.
"US authorities arrested a man for allegedly hijacking thousands of computers to launch spam attacks in what officials say is the first prosecution of its kind," reportssAFP. "Among the computers that Jeanson Ancheta, 20, is accused of infecting with malicious software are computers at the Weapons Division of the sensitive US Naval Air Warfare Center in China Lake in California."The allegation is that Ancheta controlled botnets -- Windows PCs compromised by Trojans -- and hired them out to spammers etc. Also, according to AFP: "Prosecutors say Ancheta was an affiliate of several different advertising service companies, which paid him a commission based on how many computers he infected with so-called adware. In all, he allegedly made about 60,000 dollars in advertising affiliate proceeds by causing the installation of adware on about 400,000 computers, they said."
Journalism is a cruel sport, but it does have its pleasures. One of them is watching elephants trying to dance. Such a spectacle was on offer last Tuesday in San Francisco, when a team of senior Microsofties led by Chairman Bill astonished an audience of journalists by announcing that the company planned to launch not one but two web-services operations - dubbed 'Windows Live' and 'Microsoft Office Live'.These new offerings are designed (so the official blurb burbled) 'to deliver rich and seamless experiences to individuals and small businesses'. They 'combine the power of software plus services' and are 'compelling enhancements to the Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office products'.Quite so. Now let us translate all that into plain English. Disregard the corpo-babble and focus instead on the phrases 'combine the power of software plus services' and 'compelling enhancements' - because they reveal the extent of the chasm which is now opening in front of Microsoft.How so? Well, a web service is technospeak for a computer function that is available via a browser rather than from a program running on your computer. A web search is an example. So are Hotmail and Google Mail, Maps, Froogle, Blogger and others.The idea of such services is almost as old as the web itself, but it is only with the advent of widespread broadband access that they have started to come into their own, because they can now offer levels of performance comparable to locally-running software.Web services represent a paradigm shift in the way we think about computing. In the old days (1975-2002) the platform (the PC) was the computer: what web services are doing now is moving us to a world where the network is the computer. This shift represents the gravest strategic threat that Microsoft has faced since Netscape appeared in 1994.Why? Because Microsoft has a monopolistic grip on the platform; well over 90 per cent of all the personal computers in the world run Windows, and this stranglehold has provided monopoly rents to Chairman Bill and his shareholders.Which is why the prospect of web services bothers them more than somewhat. It threatens to make the platform irrelevant - and conjures up images of an alternative universe in which users can reach a powerful word-processor or spreadsheet via the web - thereby forgoing the pleasure of paying exorbitant licence fees for Microsoft Office.On the other hand, Gates and co are smart folks who know in their bones that web services represent the future. But they're stuck, because if Microsoft were to become a major provider of such services (which it is technically quite capable of doing), it would be tantamount to cannibalising its core business - the lucrative Windows and Office franchises. After all, to access web services, all you need is a browser - and it doesn't have to be Microsoft's own Internet Explorer. Nor does your computer have to run Windows. Firefox running on Linux or Safari running on a Mac are just as good for web mail or search as Explorer running on Windows.So Microsoft has a problem. It can't go all-out for web services - which explains the pathetic fudge announced on Tuesday. The new 'live' sites will only offer supplements and complements to Microsoft software running on your computer.There is precious little detail available about either, but what there is is embarrassing. Windows Live, for example, 'is a new set of internet software and services designed to put you in control of the information, relationships and interests you care about. Windows Live will make it easier for you to connect with people, and to quickly find the information you need, more safely and securely, whether you're on your PC or on the go. And it's evolving every day - with your feedback, it will just keep getting better.'Wow! And as for Office Live, why that's 'a new set of internet-based services for growing and managing a business online. Designed to help companies establish an online presence, automate key internal and external business tasks, and collaborate with employees, partners and customers, the initial Office Live offerings are targeted at the approximately 28 million small businesses worldwide that have fewer than 10 employees.' And of course, 'although Office Live services can be used independently', they will also 'integrate with Microsoft Office programs used regularly by more than 400 million people around the world'.Some years ago Harvard academic Clayton Christensen wrote a riveting book entitled The Innovator's Dilemma, which explored the question of why large, successful companies cannot cope with disruptive technologies. In it he shows that even well-managed firms with established products miss the next big wave in their industries unless their leaders know when to abandon their traditional business practices.The first chapter in Professor Christensen's book is entitled 'How can great firms fail?' Watching Gates and co fudging the issue of web services on Tuesday suggested a simple answer: easily.john.naughton@observer.co.ukmemex.naughtons.org
The Microsoft Anti-Malware Engineering Team says its anti-spyware technology will be called Windows Defender, and included in Vista.The team's blog says: "Windows Defender is about what Windows will do for customers, defending them from spyware and other unwanted software. Our solution has really been about more than just the standard definition of "spyware". We've always said we will provide visibility and control, as well as protection, detection and removal from other potentially unwanted software, including rootkits, keystroke loggers and more."Comment:Microsoft's anti-spyware is based on code (and people) it acquired by buyingGIANT. It's been praised by many Ask Jack readers, so let's hope the team keeps it up.
Mark at Sysinternals (below) has returned to the topic of Sony's use of a rootkit as part of its Digital Rights Management (DRM) on his blog,here. Not only does he reckon the "uninstaller" is inadequate, he now points out that Sony's software "phones home". He writes:I doubt Sony is doing anything with the data, but with this type of connection their servers could record each time a copy-protected CD is played and the IP address of the computer playing it.
"Every week seems like a big week for us in the engineering team working on our anti-malware technology. However, last week was especially important in a sentimental way. We got the final name for the cool technology our team has been developing for Windows. The name, after long consideration by our product marketing and branding folks, is Windows Defender! What's really cool about this name is that it's more positive than Windows AntiSpyware. Windows Defender is about what Windows will do for customers, defending them from spyware and other unwanted software. Our solution has really been about more than just the standard definition of "spyware". We've always said we will provide visibility and control, as well as protection, detection and removal from other potentially unwanted software, including rootkits, keystroke loggers and more," says the MicrosoftAnti-Malware Engineering Team blog.Windows Defender will be part of Vista.Obvious comment:Not to be confused with the far superiorWilliams Defender.
Go to one of Microsoft's Xbox 360 press demos and there's a good chance there will be an Apple iPod or Sony PSP around, because you can connect them and use iPod songs along with your games. However, it can't handle protected music files from iTMS.CNet reports:"We do not have an official relationship with Apple for the iPod connectivity," said Scott Henson, product unit manager in Microsoft's advanced technology group. He maintains that "Xbox 360 leverages standard protocols such as USB mass storage to enable iPod support."Henshaw said Microsoft tried to "engage" Apple in a partnership that would have officially made the iPod interoperable with Xbox, but Apple rejected the overture. "So we went in and built all of the support we could."
There used to be a weighty book, published about nine years ago, entitled How to Find Things on the Internet. It is a marvellous piece of publishing ephemera and a concept that has been made almost entirely redundant by the advent of search engines.Nowadays - almost 15 years to the day after Tim Berners-Lee launched the first web page - many would say that you need only one word, rather than a 150-page book, to help you find anything on the internet: Google.Search engines have meant that the way content-based websites such as Guardian Unlimited are viewed is changing. When we launched Unlimited in 1999 the general perception was that the audience would memorise your web address (or URL) and visit it before using the navigation on the site and our own site search to find what they wanted.Now more than half our traffic arrives not through the "front door" - our home page - but directly to a page of content linked from a search engine or news aggregator such as Google News. This presents issues for how you design the site when every page is in effect your front page.But the high expectations of what search can deliver also means that we have to change how we let people search our content. For some time we had been aware that our own search on the site was less than perfect - in fact many colleagues once used Google to find things on the site rather than our own engine. But Google does not have all of our content so that, too, is unreliable. However, in the past week we have finally released our new search engine on the site after months of hard work by the technical team, and although it might seem like a minor change it is probably one of the most important developments we have made over the past year .In a week when we had cabinet ministers and newspapers editors misbehaving in the most extraordinary circumstances, to be carried away about a piece of software might seem to miss the point. But search is now so central to what any information-rich site does that to make major progress with it is quietly revolutionary.We have ditched what Stephen Dunn, our chief technical officer, described as the "baroque syntax" of our old search, which delivered poor results, and replaced it with something that enables you, we hope, to find what you are looking for, but also offers added information about our journalism. For instance, I put "rebekah wade" into the new search on Thursday and was immediately presented with our most recent articles about the Sun editor.This in itself has been a hotly debated issue within the site - whether to be like 99% of other search engines and deliver the "most relevant" first, or go with an editorial instinct that readers will expect "most recent" to be the default setting with "most relevant" as an available option. If I type the words "david blunkett rebekah wade" into the new search I will get a page of our most recent articles about the Sun editor and her night out with the former secretary of state for work and pensions. No commas or ands needed.The most useful feature, I suspect, will be the filters that have been added to help you refine results - by section, year, month and even by publication. It is now possible to look at all articles that were web-only, or that came from just the Guardian or just the Observer. In the coming weeks we will be adding further features such as a writers filter, so you can narrow the search by journalist. Editors' picks, which will be added over the coming weeks, will point you to what we think you are looking for, so, for instance, "sudoku" - which has been our most popular search term in the past few months - will now give you an editor-recommends link as the first item that takes you to the appropriate page.We would like to know what you think, if you use our search engine, and we would like to encourage those of you who don't to come and have a look at it. Feedback welcome atsearch.feedback@guardian.co.uk.&#183;Emily Bell is editor-in-chief of Guardian Unlimited.
Brothers In Arms: Earned In BloodPC, PS2, XBOXTwo years ago every second game seemed to feature stultifyingly contrived stealth elements. This year if it's not a game about car pimping, then the chances are it'll be a first-person shooting one that has an "authentic" take on the second world war, with a long nod in the direction of Saving Private Ryan. Brothers In Arms: Earned In Blood includes no underbody neon lighting, but does have tasteful music, accurate sound effects and proper voice acting, making it a clear member of the latter genre. It's also unnecessarily difficult, with its tactics-lite squad-based shooting antics regularly getting frustrating in the exact way Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six series did before it. Competent but never quite impressive, Earned In Blood is definitely not for weekend warriors.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;30-&pound;40Buzz!: The Music QuizPS2The moment you unpack the box and find four handheld units, each with its own bulbous red buzzer on top (yes, it lights up!), you know that this Christmas is going to be played out to the sound of sarcastic virtual game show hosts and nerve-rackingly short clips with which to identify song titles. Even if you never play videogames, if you've seen a TV quiz show you already know how to play Buzz! This interactive quiz comprises alternating quick-fire rounds, some where you pound the red buzzer to be first to answer and others in which you just stab the right multiple choice response anyway, all accompanied by the appropriate, if repetitive, commentary of its host. Choosing your character and comedy buzzer noise add an extra fillip to the drunken fun, and while it could have done with high scores and some sense of which round you're in, gamers and resolute non-gamers alike will find this completely essential festive season equipment.&#183;Sony, &pound;40GeistGamecubeGeist's central conceit is as simple as it is attractive: your character's soul is ripped from his body to float freely around the game's industrial interiors. Progress is made by possessing guards, scientists and inanimate objects in your pursuit of the truth about what happened to you. This boils down to a little bit of ethereal drifting followed by first-person shooting sections that fail to satisfy; controls feel unnatural and fire fights too staccato, lacking the more considered pacing of Far Cry or the visual spectacle of Nintendo's own Metroid series. GameCube owners are not troubled by an embarrassment of first-person shooting games, and the mediocrity on display here does nothing to change that.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;40
Now that The Simpsons isn't as funny as it used to be, the most subversive cartoon family on TV is The Griffins. There's a host of great links dedicated to The Family Guy, not least the BBC's own homepage (bbc.co.uk/comedy/familyguy) that includes a hysterical interview with the show's creator, Seth McFarlane.At familyguy.com you can watch classic clips and dress up little Stewie, the family's disturbingly articulate and camp baby, whilefamilyguyquotes.comis the place for one-liners from Quahog's most famous inhabitants. Of the fansites,familyguyfiles.comhas a brilliant section dedicated to every pop culture item referenced in the show,planet-familyguy.comhouses a location guide andquahog5news.comhas downloads of songs (including Stewie's disturbing version of Rocket Man).
MondaySynthetic WorldsWorld of Warcraft expandsTuesdayQuite an interesting mobile game ideaThe future of interactive entertainment: interactive extroversion and public humiliation?Game Boy MicroHow controversy turns into idiocySensi backWednesdayTomorrow's world with Ken KutaragiXBox Lounge in Japan, Nintendo store in NYC. What about us?EA adopts The SimpsonsDa Vinci gameSilent Hill movie: scarily it looks quite goodThursdayTechnologyGames in literature: Gibson explores the difference between UK and USMiyamoto: games should not be confined to a TV screenFridayA quick chat with David BrabenNintendo makes WiFi dreams a reality in 7500 locations near youGamesblog causes a ruckusStuff that
I've been at theBest of Stuff- the gadget/hi-fi event - today. It was small and not particularly interesting - unless you especially enjoy demonstrations of media centres by overexcited sales staff - but it was obvious that the big story wasHD TV. There were countless plasma and LCD TVs displaying sexy HD content, with Sky wooing crowds with HD footage of Liverpool's jammy Champions League win. Of course, the obvious connection here is with Xbox 360, with Microsoft betting that 360 will drive HD take-up in much the same way as Xbox Live helped broadband. You may have thought that there would be a stack of 360's at the event, especially considering the imminent launch. I only saw one.It was running Call of Duty 2 and very nice it looked too. But the lack of other games suggests that rumours of an ever-shrinking 360 launch day list are not far from the truth. Let's hope we don't get rushed games just to fit in with the launch - my experience withPerfect Dark Zerosuggests this could be one of those. Anyway, I can't wait to see a 360 game on a normal TV as this will be the experience of 95% of early adopters. But in the near future MS are expecting us all to upgrade to HD and after today's event I wouldn't bet against it.
The winners of this year's Golden Joystick awards, voted for by over 200,000 gamers, have been announced today. Unsurprisingly, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas has done quite well picking up PlayStation 2 Game of the Year, Soundtrack of the Year, Best Villain, Best Hero and the internationally coveted, Nuts Magazine's Ultimate Game of 2005. Resident Evil 4 also bagged a few well-deserved golden book-ends, including Editor's Game of the Year.Here's the full list:PlayStation 2 Game of the Year – Grand Theft Auto: San AndreasGameCube Game of the Year – Resident Evil 4Xbox Game of the Year – Halo 2PC Game of the Year – Half Life 2The Carphone Warehouse Handheld Game of the Year – Super Mario 64 DSBest Film-Based Game of 2005 – Resident Evil 4BBC Radio One – Colin and Edith's Best Game Soundtrack of 2005 - Grand Theft Auto: San AndreasThe Sun Online - Online Game of the Year – World of WarcraftPublisher of the Year - NintendoThe In Stock Magazine Retailer of the Year – Play.comThe Game One Gaming Innovation of the Year - PSPThe MCV One to Watch for Xmas – The Legend of Zelda: Twilight PrincessThe Sun's One to Watch for 2006 – Resident Evil 5Hero of 2005 – CJ from Grand Theft Auto: San AndreasVillain of 2005 – Officer Tenpenny from Grand Theft Auto: San AndreasThe Girl's Choice for 2005 – The Sims 2Editor's Game of the Year – Resident Evil 4Unsung Hero of the Year - FahrenheitNuts Magazine's Ultimate Game of 2005 - Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas
"In a 'strategic partnership', the software giant and the British Library will work together to digitise out-of-copyright books. The digitised contents will be made available on the library's website and through the new MSN Book Search service that will help people to find books," reportsMark Tran in the Guardian(a much bigger piece than the nib that appeared in this morning's paper).
"Robert Young, earlier this year, explained to my [Om Malik's] readers why Rupert Murdoch really bought MySpace for $583 million. He argued that we should wait for Rupert to launch a record label and a music channel that takes on MTV and knocks it off its top spot. Well today, both those things happened. Young has decided to update [the] story, and has written a stirring post, that reminds Murdoch's men to not get blinded by the Hollywood Bright Lights, or else they ruin the carefully woven fabric of My Space community. This is not the first time he has argued for handling the community with velvet gloves."Read on here...
I am using Windows XP Pro which provides a firewall. Is this as effective as the other firewalls which are available? Which would give the best security? Allen ThompsonThe Windows XP SP2 firewall could be described as just about adequate for most home users, but I would expect most or all commercial firewalls to offer better security. Usually I suggest adding a free firewall such asSygate,KerioorZoneAlarm. However, the market for free or cheap firewalls seems to be thinning. Sygate has been taken over by Symantec, and Kerio is being discontinued on December 31.All these are still options, but I now need to try a few more firewalls and have another think!There's a good list of what's available here atPersonal Firewall Reviews, plus advice and links to articles.Does anyone else have any recommendations?Update:Will Watts has just pointed out that Lavasoft has launched a (paid for) firewall. Following the link to the free trial download leads to this interestingPCWorld.com pagewith more firewalls and related programs.
Gamesblog found itself in legal hot coffee this week when the BBC's lawyers took umbrage with the use of the apparently BBC-owned term "Newsround (TM)" as the category for our news-like posts.According to the positioning letter that arrived on our legal eagle's desk a few mornings ago (underneath the gold-gilded heading, no doubt) the word is trademarked by the BBC, relating to their use of the it as title of their children's TV show presented once by - yes - John Craven.We have been accused of potentially causing confusion amongst the general public, which would be an awful bother for dear old Auntie Beeb.Because we cherish independent media (which I recognise as an individual coming from a country with anything but), we have agreed to swap the word instead of costing license fee payers mountains of dough in legal fees.However, this leads us to a conundrum: What shall we now call the news that isn't, well, "The News"?It's up to you. Keep it clean, please. The best suggestion wins a place in the hearts and minds of a generation.
Software company Microsoft is planning to transform 100,000 books from the British Library into an electronic format in order to open a virtual library.Bill Gates's company wants to digitise 25m pages, and is preparing to spend &pound;1.4m on the venture next year. Once technical challenges are overcome, Microsoft plans to trial making books, journals, maps and manuscripts available on the library's website and an MSN book search service.The moves are being seen as a counter to an initiative by the search engine Google, which has already unveiled its own digital book collection.
"The number of times people have written our death warrant – every four or five years. Now they have a new person's name on it: it was Netscape, it was Novell, it was IBM, it was Ashton Tate, it was Lotus. There have been many names. The old saying is – tell me where I am going to die, so I will be sure not to go there," says Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates in thisComputinginterview.Indeed, Gates has been told rather often that rival companies were going to kill Microsoft. The main ones I can remember....Microsoft v Digital ResearchDR had a monopoly market share of the desktop operating system market (excluding proprietary combinations of hardware and software, such as the Apple II and Acorn BBC etc). CP/M, MP/M, GEM, Concurrent DOS, RIP...Microsoft v IBMIBM, data processing's biggest and longest-lasting monopoly, decided to kill Microsoft with TopView and, later, OS/2 (which was originally co-developed with Microsoft), and, later, Lotus Notes, and, later, Linux.Microsoft v AppleThe Mac's graphical user interface (launched 1984) was clearly superior to the IBM PC's MS DOS (launched 1981), so PCs would immediately be abandoned. Legions of grey corporate IBM-droids could only be saved from marching to their deaths if they were converted to the hippy free love-and-peace world of the Mac, as used by (say) Mahatma Gandhi.Microsoft v NovellNovell had a monopoly market share of the non-IBM networking market with Netware. Novell boss Ray Noorda thought Gates was a little squirt and decided to kill Microsoft by buying in software to compete -- Unix, WordPerfect, Quattro etc.Microsoft v UnixEveryone was going to move to cheap Unix boxes mostly running Sun's unifying standard System V Release 4, with hardware manufacturers including Acorn, Atari, Commodore, and everybody else. See Linux, below.Microsoft v LotusLotus owned the workgroup market with Notes (created by Ray Ozzie). It bought in a bunch of programs to create an office suite to fight Microsoft head on. Got hammered and was taken over by IBM, which needed Notes as a quick replacement for its failed OfficeVision software. (Ray Ozzie now works for Microsoft.)Microsoft v NetscapeNetscape had a monopoly market share of the browser market and was the biggest name on the net. Co-founder Marc Andreessen said Windows would be reduced to "a set of poorly debugged device drivers." Clueless journalists and analysts described Andreessen as "the next Bill Gates".Microsoft v AOLTook over from Netscape as the online threat to Microsoft, and went on to take over the mighty CNN Time Warner media empire. Was replaced by the online threat of ASPs (application service providers).Microsoft v Larry EllisonEllison, co-founder of Oracle and briefly the world's richest man, reckoned PCs would be replaced by "network computers" which would lead to the death of the PC market.Microsoft v SunSun's Java would enable all programs to be run on any computer, making Windows and Microsoft obsolete.Microsoft v PalmPalm had a monopoly market share of the fast-growing market for handhelds. Microsoft wasdoomed.Microsoft v PsionGates admitted he was running scared because the Microsoft empire was going to be smashed by the Symbian operating system, backed by the major phone manufacturers.Microsoft v LinuxAt Comdex, Linus Torvalds quipped that Linux would be ready to replace Windows on the desktop in about three years, adding "but I said that three years ago". That was in 1999. This is a variant of the old joke that goes: "Next year is the Year of Unix... and always will be," which I first heard in 1984. Victory is assured, of course, but don't hold your breath.Microsoft v GoogleGoogle is going to become the operating system for the Internet, holding everyone's data, running all the world's applications, carrying all the world's phone calls, and taking free Wi-Fi to the far corners of the globe etc. However, has yet to develop any serious business/enterprise software or service beyond the Google Appliance, and is thus not even competing in a $1 trillion market. Victory is assured, of course, but don't hold your breath.Who have I missed?Footnote for less careful readers:This isnota list of (mainly) companies that actually could kill Microsoft, but of ones that have been portrayed as threats to Bill Gates's empire. The fact that a threat may be insubstantial or even ridiculous doesn't stop the mainstream press from hyperventilating about it. "Could xxx kill Microsoft?" is a standard story format, whether the xxx is "IBM" or "ice-cream sales in Blackpool". In the sillier cases, the best you can hope for is that after 3,000 words of waffle^h^h^h serious reporting, the final answer is "no".
Microsoft today issued a direct challenge to Google as it announced plans to digitise around 100,000 books - 25 million pages - from the British Library.In a "strategic partnership", the software giant and the British Library will work together to digitise out-of-copyright books. The digitised contents will be made available on the library's website and through the new MSN Book Search service that will help people to find books.The British Library's vast collection includes 13 million books, 7 million manuscripts, 4.5 million maps, 56 million patents, 3.5 million sound recordings, 8 million stamps, and 58 million newspapers in various formats.Google has already moved into this new territory. The internet search engine last year launched Google Print to enable people to search the contents of books online and, according to Google, make it easier to track down relevant books.The scheme consists of a publisher programme that encourages book firms to make their titles searchable online, and the Google Print Library Project, a scheme to upload books at a number of major libraries.Whereas Microsoft is working with the British Library, Google is digitising the work of five of the world's other renowned libraries - Stanford, Harvard and Michigan university libraries, the New York public library and the Bodleian library in Oxford.In focusing on out-of-copyright books, Microsoft is steering clear of a legal minefield. Publishers and authors are up in arms over Google's plans to scan books that are still covered by copyright protection, and have taken legal action to stop Google.Alistair Baker, a managing director at Microsoft, said the company is putting $2.5m (&#163;1.4m) into its British Library venture next year as an initial investment, whereas Microsoft has made it clear that it is in for the long haul.Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft said, "Our partnership with the British Library is not only about digitisation and preservation, but also about delivering a great experience for people accessing this amazing collection through British Library and MSN websites."Microsoft is already working with the British Library to help build the infrastructure for the National Digital Library. It will provide software tools, advice and technical support to the library's experts.The National Digital Library is a cornerstone of the British Library strategy that was launched in June.Lynne Brindley, the chief executive of the British Library, said, "This partnership helps us fulfil our vision of promoting ready access to our collection for everyone who wants to use it."This is great news for research and scholarship and will give unparalleled access to our vast collections to people all over the world: they will be available to anyone, anywhere and at anytime."In announcing its venture with the British Library, Microsoft has made it clear that it intends to join battle with Google in the battle over digital duplication of media, including music, movies and now books.
Back when the DS was still just a series of cryptic tech specs and randomly leaked photos, there was much excitement over the handheld console's potential WiFi capabilities. Those frenzied months have passed, punctuated by the launch of the other WiFi-enabled handheld console, the PSP, and the "world in your pocket" dreams that Nintendo promoted have only really surfaced in a few "Gotta Catch 'Em All" promotions at Pokemon movies.A new development has forced its way into the inboxes of technology journalists across the nation, as Nintendo announced today that it is seriously kicking off its WiFi madness in partnership withBTand Swedish companyThe Cloud. The team are WiFi'ing the UK, offering DS gamers "an unprecedented step forward into a new era of gaming, allowing anyone to play against friends and family across the globe simply, safely and best of all - for free."From the release:Gamers will be able to visit any one of over 7,500 Wi-Fi hotspots at locations across the UK. These include McDonalds restaurants, Coffee Republic coffee houses, Hilton and Ramada Jarvis hotels, Road Chef and Welcome Break service stations, First Great Western railway stations, over 25 student unions and city centre BT Payphones and airports, football stadiums and even the British Library and Canary Wharf.McDonalds?! City centre BT payphones? Welcome Breaks? We'll be able to play Mario Kart DS while pumping gas, stuffing a "hamburger" into our gobs and loitering around BT payphones? There's no mention in the release how far the WiFi signal's radius will broadcast. Property near MickyD's has never looked so good.For those who have WiFi installed in your homes, you can get an add on which allows you to play in the house as well, which is convenient for the forthcoming Nintendo Revolution.This is a step up to the plate for Nintendo, but with the hacks alreadygiving it their allwith the Sony handheld, I imagine it won't be long before the DS's WiFi hotspots will be enabled for the PSP.The new service is rolled out on 25 November.
Back in September, Britsoft luminary, David Braben, announced an ambitious new project for hisFrontier Developmentsstudio.The Outsideris to be an open-ended military conspiracy thriller set in and around Washington DC.Interestingly, character development and personal motivations are given as the key driving forces behind the action, rather than an oppressive plot. Although the setting sounds like familiar videogame fare - you're a CIA operative with a fistful of high-tech gadgets, framed for a crime you didn't commit - Braben has been hinting that complex moral questions exist at the game's core. The Outsider is, apparently, about each individual player finding theirownway out, depending on their own conscience.We sent a few questions over to David, hoping to find out more about the game. Here's what he told us...Can you provide a little background on the game - when did you start working on it? And where did the initial concept come from?We have been working on the concept for the game for quite some time now, but we have just started production. I find the concept of 'the wronged good guy' a fascinating basis for a story. Cinema has done it often, with great films like "Capricorn One", "The Fugitive". It leaves open, and even justifies quite extreme behaviour from the protagonist, without committing them to a particular path of action. This makes for interesting plots in film, but is even more important when you are this protagonist in a game. It leaves the choices wide open to the player, without breaking the overall story.I have always felt a little annoyed when I am forced by a game story into certain actions, like drive-by shootings, or pimping in Grand Theft Auto; it means there is no real choice.And about the plot... There seems to be some elements of 24 in there...The plot centres around 'off balance sheet accounting'. Seriously – just not with money, with military hardware. To explain further, this is a practice that has gone on for a long time – where even in times of war, munitions are still accounted for, but soldiers would tend to report slightly more bullets fired than was the case – in case they lost any, or 'accidentally' fired a few off at another time. The first fictional mention of it was in Joseph Heller's Catch 22, where it was being done on a commercial scale, but I'm sure it went on much earlier than this.In "The Outsider" a secret organisation within the CIA has been doing this for a long time, and the player is an unwitting part of it all, and it has all started to go horribly wrong…You spoke in the press release about a number of new technologies developed at Frontier, which will be employed in the game - can you elaborate on this at all? What areas of the gameplay are they aimed at?Each of the new technologies has been chosen with their game-play benefits in mind. We will of course have fancy display rendering technologies, but the emphasis is on game-play, and the most important new technology is the way we are scripting the characters. In addition we have new speech technologies, and new ways to simulate destruction of buildings (amongst other things).Also in the press release you mentioned player freedom in the game, and the way in which the action is based around character motivations rather than plot. This sounds ambitious - how have you approached the structure and plotting of the game from this character-driven stance? How has it changed the way you work?It is ambitious, but is a vital step forward to achieve non-linear game-play. The biggest change is in the way the story has to be written; the kinds of problems that arise are quite different to the traditional way of plot design.There's also a mention of Elite in the release - in what ways are there similarities with that game?Open-ended gaming, where the player really can do what they like, is harder to achieve than it first seems, as there has to be things of interest wherever they go. This open ended nature is the biggest common factor.How are you finding the next-gen consoles as development platforms?The new system architectures, particularly the multi-processor nature means the code has to written very carefully to avoid wasted time when one processor waits for another, or where one processor inadvertently 'interferes' with the data that is currently being processed by another. The advantage is that for a given cost, you get a great deal more performance than you would have done by spending the same money on a single processor.Do you think more developers apart from Frontier will be looking at innovative ways to use all the power of the Xbox 360 and PS3? It seems most are just utilising it to chuck more polys and lighting effects around...I am sure they are – they certainly should be, though many of the early titles will simply be fourth generation games, with fancier graphical systems.What do you think of the Nintendo Revolution, then? Is that on your development map at all?Not currently. The controller Is very interesting indeed, but I am still unclear of the specs of the machine itself – from what I've heard it is nowhere near the performance of PS3 or Xbox 360.Finally, Elite again. People have been crying out for a massively multiplayer version for years - others have tried and failed to come up with something similar... You seem to have suggested in recent interviews that a next gen sequel is on the cards...Yes, we will be coming back to Elite soon. For me it has always been vital that this next iteration is what I want it to be, and we have been waiting for certain key technologies.
In one of the first articles I wrote about the new-fangled World Wide Web for Computer Guardian -- back in the mists, this was the section we had before Online, which came before today's Technology -- one of the early webmistresses explained what she got out of it: she said we were paying her attention. This, of course, turned into the scramble for eyeballs that powered the Web 1.0 Bubble.Attention was valuable when it was commoditized and sold in bulk. Now it's becoming even more valuable, as it's personalized and targeted. This is what Amazon and eBay do when they offer me things to buy based on what I've already bought. And the more they know about me, the better their targeting could be.At the moment, these things are pretty crude. eBay.co.uk, for example, notices I buy Quad hi-fi and shows me pictures of Quad bikes. This is silly. But (as I pointed out in my column this week) Google could do a massively better job, if it wanted to. It has access to some of my email, some of my friends (on Orkut), and some of the people I talk to (Google Talk) etc. It knows some of the places I visit (directions on Google Maps), and from my searches, one heck of a lot about things I'm interested in buying. This is not about showing 5 billion people a banner ad for Coca-Cola. It's about someone coming up with an obscure Japanese recording of Pictures at an Exhibition played Gamelan style and Google's ad software saying: "Aha, bet Jack will buy that!"All this isattention data, and it's becoming extremely valuable to Amazon, eBay, Google, Yahoo, Microsoft and all the other companies that want to make money from targeted advertising -- including, perhaps, the Guardian. But who owns that data? Who controls how it's collected and how it's used? Who benefits from it?This is something that a group calledAttentionTrustis thinking seriously about. One member,Ed Batista, recentlywroteto Jeff Jarvis ofBuzz Machinefame, explaining the organization's three-part mission:1) Educate people about the existence of "attention data," ie metadata that reflects what we pay attention to (and what we ignore) and its potential value as a resource.2) Empower people to exert greater control over their own attention data – our first initiative in this area is the recent release of the AttentionTrust Extension, an "attention recorder" in the form of a Firefox extension that allows users to record and share aspects of their clickstream and browsing history.3) Build a community of individuals and organizations that agree to respect users' rights to own, manage and exchange their attention data in a transparent environment that allows users to decide who has access to their data and how it's used.When the Internet was penetrating everyday society, this wasn't really an issue. The net allowed you to be anonymous or assume a persona, we thought, as summed up in a New Yorker cartoon published on July 5, 1993: "On the Internet, nobody knows you're a dog." The cartoon is reproducedhere. But scroll down for the Reality Check, published in 1997....The sort of tracking and profiling done by Amazon, eBay and other suppliers isn't very scary, because it's not comprehensive, and because they are not particularly good at exploiting it. To the extent that they are, it's even useful. But we're entering an age when it can be extremely comprehensive, and very effectively exploited, not just by merchants but by governments. That really is scary.
Mark from Sysinternals posted an analysis of what happened when he played a copy-protected music CD on his PC, as I bloggedbelowon Tuesday morning. "Sony put software on my system that uses techniques commonly used by malware," he wrote.The mass protest on the net was followed up by a good article in The Washington PostStudy of Sony Anti-Piracy Software Triggers Uproar, which reported:In response to criticisms that intruders could take such advantage, First4Internet Ltd -- the British company that developed the software -- will make available on its Web site a software patch that should remove its ability to hide files, chief executive Mathew Gilliat-Smith said.Yesterday, Sony posted an updatehere, saying it "removes the cloaking technology component," with a link to the XCP Technology site,http://updates.xcp-aurora.com/.Sony says it only used this copy-protection system on 20 CDs, though there will be more to come. However, these seem to be US releases, and Sony UK confirms that there is no copy protection on any of the CDs it releases in the UK. (There may still be copy-protected Sony CDs around, of course, given that Amazon.co.uk's marketplace lists cheap CDs from suppliers who mail them from North America.)PC Promagazine also talked to Mathew Gilliat-Smith, who "said that his company is in talks with the antivirus companies to help them identify when the software is present on a system."
Yahoo's Searchblog has announceda new version of its Mapsoffering with Flash/Ajax click'n'drag programming to compete with Google maps. The site says the features include:Multi-point driving directions. Get yourself from point A to B and on to C all in one map. Integrated Yahoo! Local. Includes our local search, a browseable interface, easy access to business ratings, reviews, and events. The new overview map (in the upper-right hand corner) helps you get your bearings. The little grey box representing your big map is even drag-able. Use it to move around rapidly without losing context.
Making history: Apple boss Steve Jobs. Photograph: Paul Sakuma/AP PhotoIt's time for the latest weekly instalment of ourTechnology Guardiansupplement, and this week's cover story asks whether Apple's on course to repeat the pattern it has seen before in other markets - innovation, domination and then a gradual slide away as competitors move in. Of course, the firm might like it that way, but Kieren McCarthy ponders whether itsdeja vu all over again.Elsewhere, we reviewPeter Molyneux's latest gaming saga, Black &amp; White 2, I wonderwhose sidethe web's pioneers are really on, and Jack asks whether Google's heart lies inSilicon Valley or Madison Avenue.That's not all:Innovationscovers the latest gadgets and technologies,Gamesgets a play with the new Game Boy Micro, and we also examine the rise of"virtual London". And, of course, there's more.Click herefor the complete contents.
Google has launched its "Personalised Homepage in English," so you can now have a start page where you can search, watch incoming Gmail, have weather info and consolidate web feeds (RSS etc). Sources include "BBC News, Reuters Business, Telegraph Sport and Hello Magazine," says Google. As with Microsoft's similar Start.com and Live.com pages, you can use drag'n'drop to position sections.Comment:I've set up a Google home page with feeds from my Gmail inbox, this blog, Engadget, TechDirt etc, plus London weather and quotes of the day. I'm still doing the same with Microsoft's Live beta -- but the mail points to an empty (except for the Welcome message) Hotmail box I set up yesterday.It is, of course, unfair to compare Microsoft's first (probably premature) beta with Google's finished version, but I'll do it anyway. In this little head-to-head, Google was quicker and easier to set up, and to my eye, the final result looks better. Bottom line: Google wins by a mile.
Most agony aunts offer advice on family problems, diets and extramarital affairs. But a group of leading academics has set up a website to deal with the more fundamental questions in life, like: what is truth?AskPhilosophers.orgis a website which aims to spread the knowledge of the world's philosophers. Questions that are posted on the site are answered by academics including Peter Lipton, the head of department of history and philosophy of science at Cambridge University, Roger Crisp of St Anne's College, Oxford University, and Gabriel Segal, the head of the philosophy department at King's College London.Some examples of the questions include: "Is there such a thing as absolute truth?" "Could God have made pi a simpler number?" and "Why are philosophers silent about Aristotelian principles of logic?"Some 360 questions so far been answered since the site, which is hosted by Amherst College in America, launched last month.Professor Lipton told the Times Higher Education Supplement, which ran a feature on the site today: "I find it refreshing to answer questions that are non-academic. The tricky part was writing clearly enough for a general audience while not boring the other philosophers on the panel. It's a challenge, but it really is fun. I'm addicted."It's very important that philosophers get out more," he added.Some questions and answersQ:Assuming there is no afterlife, is it irrational to fear death?A:Peter Lipton: It's irrational to fear what death will feel like if you know it won't feel like anything; but it doesn't follow that it is irrational to fear death. It's not irrational to look forward to the pleasures of living, and if we know that death will take these away, the fear of losing those pleasures doesn't seem irrational either.Q:Are there arguments against gay marriage that are not religious, bigoted or both?A:Gabriel Segal: There are no good arguments meeting that description.Q:What is not art?A:Aaron Meskin, lecturer in philosophy, Leeds University: Lots of things: the orange in front of me, the bus outside my window, George Bush, the number four, Palo Duro Canyon, and so on. I suspect you want to know what makes something not art, and that might seem like it calls for supplying a definition of art. Once we knew what the defintion was, we could presumably determine what didn't fall into the category. For a number of reasons, I suspect that this isn't the best way to go. (For one thing, I don't think philosophy has a great track record at supplying informative and accurate definitions.) Still, it seems that we are pretty good at distinguishing art from non-art, and that should do in most cases.
Microsoft will today announce plans to move further into the voice market through the acquisition of a Zurich-based software firm, enabling it to offer premium services to business customers.The deal puts further pressure on conventional telecom companies that are facing a potentially deadly threat from the emergence of voice over internet protocol services (VoIP). It also again raises the stakes among technology companies including Yahoo, Google, eBay, and America Online that appear to be rapidly converging in many of the same spaces.The latest acquisition follows swiftly on the announcement by Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates on Tuesday that the software maker would push more aggressively into the development of online services, a move he described as the most important shift in five years.At a press conference in San Francisco, Mr Gates unveiled "Live" online services to complement its core Windows and Office software products, sold with 90%-95% of personal computers. Windows Live and Office Live will allow the delivery of key products and services from office software to e-mail, web design tools and instant messaging online.The basic services will be free for users and advertising supported, although the company will try and upgrade customers to more feature-rich and advanced offerings. Mr Gates described the services as "a revolution in how we think about software".The strategy is a landmark change for Microsoft, which has traditionally done business by selling software on disks and licensing its software to corporate customers. But it has come under pressure to rethink its model. It seems likely that Google played a part when it recently announced a deal with Sun Microsystems, to explore means of offering its OpenOffice software, a rival to Microsoft, over the internet. Microsoft has been beaten to market before and still used its muscle to end up in a dominant position. Still, the internet is shifting the ground beneath the company at rapid rates, especially with the spread of broadband.Microsoft is buying the Swiss company Media-Streams for an undisclosed amount. The company aims to incorporate its expertise in VoIP into its Office Communicator application, allowing seamless links between voice, instant messaging and video conferencing.Zig Sarafin, general manager of Microsoft's real-time collaboration unit, said the acquisition would enable the company to accelerate its plans of offering one common communications experience for users. "It's the coming together of voice, data and video into something that's much more intuitive," he said.Voice over the internet has become one of the mostly hotly contested battlegrounds. In September, Microsoft announced plans to develop an internet phone service for consumers following the acquisition of Teleo, a small San Francisco VoIP firm. Later that month EBay announced the $4.1bn takeover of the largest of the consumer VoIP services, Skype. It offers free calls between computers and a subscription service for calls to regular phones. EBay said it hoped to lessen the "friction" between transactions on its auction site.Yahoo recently bought a firm called Dialpad with the aim of adding voice calls to its online portal that can connect to traditional phones. Google launched Google Talk, a limited offering allowing users to send instant messages and hold live voice conversations with other PC users. AOL has also announced a voice service.There are an estimated 3m people using VoIP services in the biggest market, the United States. IDC, the telecom consultancy, forecasts that will rise to 27m by 2009. Microsoft is not only facing rivals in telephony as Silicon Valley plays out its own version of keeping up with the Joneses. The company is competing with Yahoo and Google on internet search and in other areas such as maps and the effort to put the world's libraries on line.FootnoteVOIP - Voice over Internet ProtocolRather than traditional telephone calls made over a fixed telecoms network, VOIP treats voice traffic in the same way as data travelling across the internet. The data is assembled into "packets" which are disassembled when they reach their destination'Live' home pageWeb users increasingly want bespoke information presented to them on one page - individually tailored news, share prices, weather information, etcBroadbandThe term comes from the words "broad bandwidth" and is used to describe a high-speed and high-capacity connection to the internet, capable of supporting audio and video services. Broadband is rapidly replacing the far slower "narrowband" or dial-up internet access
After a decade of shuttling between two desktop PCs and a laptop, I want to simplify everything and get just one very good laptop. I am drawn, not least by Which? and the propaganda of Appleusing friends, to switching to a Mac laptop. On the one hand, I would have to grapple with a whole new system plus compatibility problems with some of my existing files, as well as the usual potential for disaster. On the other, everyone says Apple Mac is so much easier anyway. Being quite at home with Windows XP etc and nervous of change, am I crazy to even consider switching? If this is a can of worms, then my apologies for trying to open it. Mark OttawayPeople generally like what they know, and as you say, switching will involve learning new ways to do things. This is particularly hard if you have been using one system for a decade, since it involves more than relearning the operating system. It also means relearning applications - or buying new applications that do the same job - and, in the Mac's case, the keyboard.The main advantage of switching to the Mac is the freedom from viruses and other malware. Mac OS X, like all software, has security glitches, but criminals can find much easier pickings in the Windows world. The Mac market is relatively small and not generally subject to attack. I also love the way Mac OS X closes and almost instantly resumes on Mac laptops. For this reason, I usually take my iBook to conferences, rather than my IBM ThinkPad X31, which is thinner, lighter, faster and has a better keyboard. Someone else might take a different view, of course. The important thing is to make your own choice for your own reasons. You can then ask any friends who don't respect your freedom to make a personal choice whether they are worth having as friends.Whether a Mac is easier to use than a Windows machine is a difficult point. It certainly used to be, and Mac OS X is still more logical and more elegant. However, for my money, the Mac OS X Finder isn't what it was, and I now prefer Windows Explorer. Worse, I find the Mac OS Dock much less usable than Windows' Taskbar. With both Macs and Windows PCs, you can add utilities to make the interface work the way you want, and in general, I don't think the differences are worth a holy war.Windows still has many other advantages. These include a huge number of hardware suppliers offering a vast range of machines from handhelds to mainframe class servers, and many thousands of programs that are not available for the Mac. This includes most games, and many more specialised financial and commercial applications. There is also no Mac equivalent for things like Tablet PCs and Windows Media Center. The Mac does mainstream things well, but doesn't have the range or freedom that Windows offers.If a Mac does what you want at a price you can afford, go for it. If not, don't. It's your money, and your choice.
