It is the smartwatch that broke crowdfunding records, with more than 78,000 people pledging over $20m in support of the Pebble Time – a digital watch evolved to transplant the bings, bongs and vibrations of your phone from your pocket or bag to your wrist. This week those funders have begun to receive their smartwatches, as the Pebble Time entered an increasingly competitive and crowded field.With smartphones at saturation point, and failing to dramatically improve, tablets only getting marginally thinner, and cameras, music players, portable gaming consoles and satnavs killed by smartphones, wearables are currently the most innovative area of consumer technology. While fitness trackers led the way, 2015 is the year of the smartwatch.Apple’s launch of its first smartwatch last month, expected to sell in the tens of millions, focussed public attention on the devices but the company isn’t alone in eyeing up the potentially lucrative market. Google’s Android Wear watches – made and sold by Motorola, LG, Sony, Asus and many others – dominate the Android side, while Samsung has launched not one but six smartwatches in the last 18 months.Fewer than 3m smartwatches were sold in 2014, according to data from research firm CCS Insight, but 2015 is expected to see wearable technology sales boom to 75m with an estimated 36m smartwatches sold by the end of the year. Apple’s Watch alone is expected to account for two-thirds of smartwatch sales with all manufacturers – including traditional watchmakers working on smart models such as Tag Heuer and Swatch – likely to benefit from Apple introducing the technology to a wider audience.“There are 1.2bn traditional watches sold every year and 23% of those are digital watches according to data from Statistics Brain, even if only a small proportion of those digital watches become connected, that’s a lot of smartwatches,” said Angela McIntyre from research firm Gartner.The Pebble Time is essentially a reinvention of the classic Casio watch – a simple timepiece that displays the time, obviously, with messages and alerts pushed via a gentle vibration to the wrist from a connected smartphone.Some, such as Apple, have tried to shoehorn an entire smartphone’s worth of functionality onto the wrist creating expensive, often-confusing trinkets. Others including Google have tried to guess what you need pushed to your wrist using advanced artificial intelligence and machine learning.How useful a smartwatch could be comes down to how obsessive over notifications you are and how many you get a day. The more notifications you receive, the more useful it becomes. It can act as a gateway to your smartphone allowing you to reduce notification overload, and just let the important ones or people through.But they also have the capability to be much more than just a notification hub. Some have already started absorbing fitness tracker functions, becoming a remote control for the internet connected smart home and a walker’s dream, pushing directions to the wrist.Google’s Android Wear watches, such as the LG Watch Urbane, can use Google Maps to vibrate the wrist when it’s time to turn or take the next street. Apple’s Watch measures heart rate and taps wearers on the wrist to tell them to get up when they’ve been sitting for more than an hour, while the Pebble Time can remotely control the central heating through the Nest learning thermostat.It is likely, however, to be style that increases the smartwatch’s reach. “The wrist is a commonly accepted place for technology, but it needs to be attractive and something people want to wear,” said head of research at CSS Insight Ben Wood. “We’re in the stone age for wearables. In the next five years we’ll look back at smartwatches, which are all gadget bling right now, and laugh, but only if they provide an experience that’s compelling beyond what could be done by just pulling out a smartphone. Contactless technologies including payments could be one such use.”The contendersPebble TimeThe Pebble Time smartwatch is simple, effective and long-lasting.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe newest kid of on the block costs £130 and concentrates on doing a few things right, rather than many poorly. The e-paper screen is unique for smartwatches, and like a Kindle is constantly on and can be read easily in direct sunlight. The Time has the longest battery life of any smartwatch currently available, easily lasting for five days per charge, while it is the only smartwatch here that can be used with both an iPhone and Android smartphones.Apple WatchThe Apple Watch with a tiny homescreen filled with apps.Photograph: Kay Nietfeld/Kay Nietfeld/dpa/CorbisApple’s Watch is the most expensive smartwatch going, starting at £300 and stretching to £13,500 if you want it in gold. The premium iPhone-only smartwatch has more capabilities than most with a heart rate sensor and the ability to tap you on the wrist rather than simply shaking. But it’s software can be confused, it’s battery life is short and its screen only turns on when you lift your wrist.LG Watch UrbaneThe LG Watch Urbane is the latest Android Wear smartwatch and the one that looks most like a regular watch yet.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe latest of Google’s Android Wear watches is big, round, shiny and feature-packed with a heart rate monitor, always-on OLED screen and the ability to connect to an Android smartphone over Wi-Fi remotely. But the bulky watch will only fit larger wrists and lacks the style, fit and finish of similarly priced rivals. The battery only lasts a day and a half between charges.Sony Smartwatch 3Sony’s Smartwatch 3 can track runs with built-in GPS without needing a smartphone.Photograph: APSony’s square Android Wear watch comes with all the trimmings of Google’s software, but instead of a heart rate monitor it has its own GPS chip for recording runs, strolls and marathons without needing a smartphone. The always-on LCD screen is viewable without a backlight - although there is a light if needed - and in direct light, and its battery lasts for up to three days between charges connected to an Android smartphone via Bluetooth.
Ross Ulbricht, the man behind illegal online drug emporium Silk Road, was sentenced to life in prison on Friday by Judge Katherine Forrest of Manhattan’s US district court for the southern district of New York.Before the sentencing the parents of the victims of drug overdoses addressed the court. Ulbricht broke down in tears. “I never wanted that to happen,” he said. “I wish I could go back and convince myself to take a different path.”The 31-year-old physics graduate and former boy scout was handed five sentences: one for 20 years, one for 15 years, one for five and two for life. All are to be served concurrently with no chance of parole.The judge handed out the most severe sentence available to the man US authorities identified as “Dread Pirate Roberts”, pseudonymous founder of an Amazon-like online market for illegal goods.“The stated purpose [of Silk Road] was to be beyond the law. In the world you created over time, democracy didn’t exist. You were captain of the ship, the dread Pirate Roberts. You made your own laws,” Forrest told Ulbricht as she read the sentence.Ulbrict hadbegged the judgeto “leave a light at the end of the tunnel” ahead of his sentence. “I know you must take away my middle years, but please leave me my old age,” he wrote to Forrest this week. Prosecutors wrote Forrest a 16-page letter requesting the opposite: “[A] lengthy sentence, one substantially above the mandatory minimum is appropriate in this case.”“I’ve changed. I’m not the man I was when I created Silk Road. I’m a little wiser. A little more mature and much more humble,” Ulbricht pled in court.Forrest rejected arguments that Silk Road had reduced harm among drug users by taking illegal activities off the street. “No drug dealer from the Bronx has ever made this argument to the court. It’s a privileged argument and it’s an argument made by one of the privileged,” she said.Silk Road was once the largest “dark web” marketplace forillegal drugs and other services. In March 2013 the secret site listed 10,000 items for sale, 7,000 of which were drugs including cannabis, MDMA and heroin. Prosecutors said Silk Road had generated nearly $213.9m (£140m) in sales and $13.2m in commissions before police shut it down.Ulbricht wasconvicted in Februaryafter a four-week trial on all seven counts, from selling narcotics and money laundering to maintaining an “ongoing criminal enterprise”, a charge usually reserved for mob kingpins. Prosecutors said that he had gone so far as to solicit six murders for hire, although no charges were ever brought.Throughout the trial, the defense suggested that Ulbricht was the victim of a complex hacking attack that left him looking like the fall guy. Given the evidence presented against Ulbricht, the pitch proved a hard sell to the jury.Ulbricht was arrested in the science fiction section of his public library, “literally caught with his fingers at the keyboard, running Silk Road”, said the prosecution in its opening statement. He was logged in to the Silk Road master account, according to the agents who arrested him, and investigators found chat logs and other evidence on the hard drive that implicated him.Forrest said she had taken special care to read the reams of documents sent to her in Ulbricht’s support, and that while it was unusual to do so, she wanted to address them at the sentencing, particularly those who’d said that an online drug marketplace reduced the violence of the drug trade.After his conviction, Ulbricht’s defense argued that the Silk Road was in fact a boon to the health of its clients, especially those who habitually used drugs. Forrest found none of the arguments convincing.“Silk Road created [users] who hadn’t tried drugs before,” Forrest said, adding that Silk Road “expands the market” and places demand on drug-producing (and violent) areas in Afghanistan and Mexico that grow the poppies used for heroin.“The idea that it is harm-reducing is so narrow, and aimed at such a privileged group of people who are using drugs in the privacy of their own homes using their personal internet connections”, she said.Two parents of children (identified only by their first names and last initials) who had died while using drugs obtained on Silk Road spoke to the court. Richard B., whose 25-year-old son died of a heroin overdose, expressed his anger at the people who have defended Ulbricht publicly. “Since Mr Ulbricht’s arrest, we have endured the persistent drumbeat of his supporters and their insistence that Silk Road was victimless,” he said. “I strongly believe that my son would be here today if Silk Road had never existed.”Vicky B, whose 16-year-old son died after taking a powerful synthetic at a party and jumping from a second-story roof, said that the time since her son’s death had been unbearable. “This is the photo of the last kiss from my son,” she said, holding up a photo of herself with her son Preston before the school ball where he died.“We keep Preston’s ashes at home,” she said, her voice breaking. “Sometimes I just hold them. Sometimes I get under a blanket with them and try to get warm.”
Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, has urged Britons to fight the government’splans to extend the country’s surveillance powers, and act as a worldwide leader for promoting good governance on the web.Berners-Lee said Britain had “lost the moral leadership” on privacy and surveillance, following the revelations of the former National Security Agency contractor, Edward Snowden.Speaking before the Web We Want Festival in London’s Southbank Centre, which starts on Saturday, Berners-Lee expressed concern about the UK government’s decision to reintroduce a beefed-up version of the “snooper’s charter”.In an unexpected move announced in the Queen’s Speech earlier this week, the government is to introduce an investigatory powers bill far more wide-ranging than expected. The legislation will include not only the expected snooper’s charter, enabling the tracking of everyone’s web and social media use, but also moves to strengthen the security services’ warranted powers for the bulk interception of the content of communications.“The discussion [in the Queen’s Speech] of increased monitoring powers is something which is a red flag … this discussion is a global one, it’s a big one, it’s something that people are very engaged with, they think it’s very important, and they’re right, because it is very important for democracy, and it’s very important for business.“So this sort of debate is something that should be allowed to happen around legislation. It’s really important that legislation is left out for a seriously long comment period,” and not simply rushed through into law.Berners-Lee also warned about attempts to improve internet access around the world by offering cut-down versions of the web, such as Facebook’s Internet.org project. Users should “just say no” to such proposals, he insisted.On the 800th anniversary of the signing of Magna Carta, Berners-Lee and the Web We Want festival have convened to produce a Magna Carta for the 21st century. But while the document is intended to inspire change globally, Berners-Lee bemoaned the loss of Britain’s “moral high ground”, following the Edward Snowden revelations in 2013.“It has lost a lot of that moral high ground, when people saw that GCHQ was doing things that even the Americans weren’t,” Berners-Lee said. “So now I think, if Britain is going to establish a leadership situation, it’s going to need to say: ‘We have solid rules of privacy, which you as an individual can be assured of, and that you as a company can be assured of.’”That way, he said, “if you want to start a company in Britain, then you can offer privacy to your users, because you’ll know that our police force won’t be demanding the contents of your discs willy-nilly, they’ll only be doing so under a very well defined and fairly extreme set of circumstances.”He accepts it was an uphill battle to get people in Britain to care, however. “This is a wild generalisation, but traditionally, people in the US are brought up in kindergarten to learn to distrust the government. That’s what the constitution’s for. Whereas people in the UK are brought up more to trust the government by default, and distrust corporations. People in America tend not to have a natural distrust of large corporations.“So that seems to be where people are coming from. In the light of that, it’s not so surprising that UK folks tended to feel more comfortable with government surveillance - but they also feel less comfortable with surveillance by corporations.”Just say noThe Web We Want campaign is promoting five key principles for the future of the web: Freedom of expression online and offline, affordable access to the net, protection of user data and privacy, a decentralised and open infrastructure, and net neutrality.But the campaign is insistent that the five principles are a minimum starting point, and that compromise on those points is not helpful to the goal. That puts it in conflict with more than just the usual suspects. When asked about Internet.org, Facebook’s non-profit organisation that aims to extend access to a few select websites in the developing world, Berners-Lee said people should “just say no” to the project.When it comes to compromising on net neutrality, “I tend to say ‘just say no’,” he said.“In the particular case of somebody who’s offering … something which is branded internet, it’s not internet, then you just say no. No it isn’t free, no it isn’t in the public domain, there are other ways of reducing the price of internet connectivity and giving something … [only] giving people data connectivity to part of the network deliberately, I think is a step backwards.”
Two hundred and fifty years ago this month, a young Scottish engineer took a Sunday walk across Glasgow Green – and changed the world. Thanks to the idea dreamed up by James Watt that Sunday in May 1765, human beings became masters of power generation and so transformed our planet.At the time, Watt was merely fixated with the problems posed by the primitive and inefficient steam engines that were then being used to pump water from mines, and had already made several futile attempts to improve them. Then, on his Sunday walk, the idea for a new device – which he later called the separate condenser – popped into his mind.It was a notion that would have stunning consequences. The separate condenser changed the steam engine from a crude and inefficient machine into one that became the mainstay of the industrial revolution. Britain was transformed from an agricultural country into a nation of manufacturers.Today, many scientists believe the processes unleashed by Watt have begun to alter the physical makeup of our planet. After two-and-a-half centuries of spewing out carbon dioxide from plants and factories built in the wake of his condenser’s invention, the atmosphere and crust of the Earth are beginning to be transformed. Watt truly changed the world, it seems.Indeed, that walk on Glasgow Green remains “one of the best recorded, and most repeated, eureka moments since Archimedes leaped out of his bathtub”, according to William Rosen in his bookThe Most Powerful Idea in the World: A Story of Steam, Industry and Invention, published in 2010.In 1765, Watt – then an instrument-maker based at Glasgow University – was working on a Newcomen pump, a state-of-the-art device in which steam pushed a piston through a cylinder. Water was then sprayed into the cylinder, cooling it and causing the steam to condense, creating a vacuum behind the piston that sucked it back into its original position. More steam was pumped in and the piston was pushed forward again.It was a very powerful process but also a very inefficient one. Constantly heating and then cooling the engine’s huge cylinder required huge amounts of heat and coal. Steam engines like these had only limited usefulness.Then Watt set off on his walk. When he was halfway across the green, the idea of a separate condenser came into his mind. Such a device would, he realised, create a vacuum that would help suck in the engine’s piston but still allow its main cylinder to operate at a constant temperature. “I had not walked further than the golf-house when the whole thing was arranged in my mind,” he later recalled.The earliest known portrait of James Watt, painted by Carl Fredrik von Breda in 1792.Photograph: SSPL via Getty ImagesWatt would have gone to work straight away but was constrained by the dictates of the Scottish sabbath. He quickly made a model of his device, nevertheless, and this is now displayed in the Science Museum in London. Four years later, he patented the condenser – and triggered the industrial revolution.“Watt’s condenser tripled the efficiency of the steam engine and that meant that mill or mine owners got three times more mechanical work for every tonne of coal they had to buy,” says Colin McInnes, professor of engineering science at Glasgow University. “It meant that Britain’s coal stocks had been effectively trebled. He made a tremendous difference to the rate at which industry spread through Britain and subsequently the rest of the world.”Until Watt, human enterprise was constrained by the process of photosynthesis, says McInnes. “In other words, we had to rely on natural living sources for the power we needed to run our factories or plants: fast-flowing water or horses or burning wood. By making the steam efficient, Watt changed all that. He gave us the means to exploit energy-dense fossil fuels in an effective manner. It changed the world and ended the era of renewable energy.”This point is backed up by Ben Russell, curator of mechanical engineering at the Science Museum, and author ofJames Watt: Making the World Anew, published last year. “Before Watt, industry had to rely on water power, and there was a strict limit to the number of factories you could build on the banks of fast-flowing rivers,” he says.“After Watt invented the separate condenser, you could build highly efficient factories almost anywhere you wanted. It made it possible to build plants that were driven by cheap, relatively easy sources: coal and steam. The cotton industry was transformed. So was brewing. And mining. Watt brought wide acceptance of steam as a power source.”Within a few decades of Watt’s breakthrough, networks of factories and mines, linked by railways, were spreading across the country, triggering a national frenzy for fossil fuels that has since become a global obsession. Steam power no longer dominates global industry but our reliance on fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas still lingers – with growing impacts on the planet.Indeed, the Nobel-prizewinning chemist Paul Crutzen now argues that the greenhouse gases produced by burning fossil fuels have brought about such profound changes that we must accept the world has entered a new epoch. He calls it the “anthropocene”.According to Crutzen and many other scientists, the planet is no longer being shaped primarily by natural processes but by ones set loose by human beings. We are raising levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, scarring the planet’s surface in our search for coal and metals, cutting down forests to make way for factories and homes, and acidifying the oceans. Humans have become planet changers.As to the event that triggered this onslaught, there are few better candidates than Watt’s stroll across Glasgow Green 250 years ago – though for such a momentous event, it is still afforded remarkably little recognition.Indeed, it was only relatively recently, in the 1980s, that Glasgow’s councillors decided to install a small boulder in what is Glasgow’s oldest park, with a simple inscription: “Near this spot in 1765, James Watt conceived the idea for the separate condenser for the steam engine.”By contrast, a few metres away, a 40-metre obelisk dedicated to Horatio Nelson was erected in 1806, only a year after his death at Trafalgar. Thus a remote battle was celebrated with a grandiose monument while an invention that gave birth to the industrial revolution and changed the world had to wait almost two centuries for recognition – in the form of a small stone.On the other hand, Watt’s striking achievement will be recognised on 5 June, when Glasgow University stages a seminar,The Invention that Changed the World, focusing on Watt and his revolutionary separate condenser, as part of the Glasgow Science Festival.“Watt was a real product of the enlightenment,” says the seminar’s organiser Lesley Richmond, deputy director of Glasgow University’s archives. “He was self taught, yet went on to work at Glasgow University at a time when Adam Smith and Joseph Black were teaching there.“He was far more than just the inventor of the separate condenser, though that was the device that was to have the greatest impact. He also invented a machine for copying documents, for example – an early photocopier, in effect.“And there is so much we can still learn about him. Many of his devices and papers have still to be properly archived and studied. In 2019, we will mark the bicentenary of Watt’s death. By then, we want to have all his work in digital form. Then we will get a real chance to appreciate his fantastic achievements.”
You might not be aware of this, but there are currently two Fifa scandals going on. One is an astonishing tale of corruption, bribery and cover-up over many years.This article is not about that. There are lots of other articles about that on the Guardian today, by writers who follow the men’s game and the fallout from Fifa’s decisions far more closely than I have. This is about the other scandal.This is aboutwomen in Fifa 16.This year, the women’s World Cup tournament will be held in Canada, and for the first time 24 teams will take the field (the men’s game has 32). Also for the first time, 12 of those teams will be represented in EA’s upcoming Fifa game. Despite Ubisoft’s claims that women are too hard to render, EA has somehow done the impossible and digitally modelled more than 200 of them, each a recognisable simulacrum of a real human person who is very good at playing football. World class, in fact.For some reason,some people are troubled by this development. Some of them seem genuinely not to understand that women are capable of existing, playing both football and videogames, and enjoying the intersection of those things - never mind that men might enjoy the women’s game too. Others seem concerned that the mere existence of imaginary versions of women in a simulated version of a sport they enjoy will harm them, or possibly society, in unimaginable ways. Perhaps feminism will be involved,as it was with Mad Maxso very recently.Sepp Blatter suggested that hotpants would significantly improve the women’s game by making it more fun to watchIt’s not as though the women’s game has been embroiled in scandal, compared to the men’s game. Ten years ago, for instance, Sepp Blatter suggested thathotpants would significantly improvethe women’s game by making it more fun to watch, a sentiment that would be right at home inthe YouTube commentsunder yesterday’s EA announcement.And in Canada this year, the women’s teams will be playing on artificial turf, potentially putting them at ahigher risk of injury. A lawsuit that could have changed the situation was refused a quick hearing and wasdropped in Januaryafter it became clear the timescale for a decision was impossible. Andsome players were threatenedin the process. Incidentally, the men’s World Cup is always played on grass.By comparison to the men’s game, obviously, these scandals are nothing at all. And we’re talking about pretendy videogames here, not ones that involve flesh-and-blood humans – we’re talking about representation, not reality. This “scandal”, the one where women who play a sport are represented in a videogame about that sport, is not a scandal at all, no matter how many people are horrified or bemused by the possibility that such a thing could happen.In Fifa 15, the last instalment of the franchise, there are more than 16,000 players. All of them are male. (Many of them are not as good at football as the women’s World Cup players.) There are 23 players in a World Cup squad. This suggests that approximately 1.7% of the players in Fifa 16 will be female.But one of them is Abby Wambach, the USA’s top goalscorer, playing her last World Cup and doing so as an out gay woman. Alex Morgan and Hope Solo will be there – in fact the entire US women’s team, who are a joy to watch, will be playable, so I can finally live my dream of playing football for the USA team in the guise of these 23 astoundingly talented and powerful women. Sadly Homare Sawa, who led Japan to victory in 2011 and is slated to play her sixth world cup next month, doesn’t seem to have made the cut – Japan isn’t one of the12 teams listed. But maybe next year EA might go as high as 3.4% female, and include all 24 world cup teams.Women play football. Women play videogames. EA has done a good thing for representation in both those fields by responding to these facts, andto the daft outrage about their decision. And those who don’t like it can take their balls and go home.
In January, creative studio ustwo made a splash byreleasing sales figures for its Monument Valley mobile game.The game and its Forgotten Shores expansion had cost $1.4m to make, but more than 2.4m sales generated revenue of nearly $5.9m, while the game scooped sackfuls of awards.Rewind to June 2011, though, and ustwo wasreleasing some less impressive figures. It had spent £60,000 making a children’s book-app called Nursery Rhymes with Story Time, which made just £24,000.Those two figures highlight ustwo’s rise to prominence in the apps world in recent years, but also hint at a backstory that millions of Monument Valley players will be unaware of.While some may have explored ustwo’s other games such asWhale TrailandBlip Blup, they may be unaware of its other past apps. Some are still available:Nursery Rhymes with Story Time; cartoon mouth appMouthOff; and interactive fiction appPapercutfor example.Others have been removed: Granimator was a wallpaper-maker for iPad; Inkstrumental a quirky music-creation app; Rando a mobile photography app to swap shots with random strangers; PositionApp a tool for developers to track App Store chart rankings around the world.Ustwo worked onBarclays’ Pingit money-transfer app; the recently launchedAdidas Go app, which beat Spotify to the idea of matching runners’ steps to songs; and the user experience forTesco’s Hudl tablet. And ustwo was also a co-founder ofmusic discovery and ticketing startup Dice.Monument Valley has brought ustwo attention, rewards - and profit.All that means there is a lot more to ustwo than Monument Valley, but its founders Matt Miller and John Sinclair – known widely as Mills and Sinx within their industry – see that game as a culmination of all the lessons they’ve learned in a decade of mobile design.The company’s rise has gone hand-in-hand with the growth of Apple and Google’s app stores – particularly Apple’s, which was where ustwo got started with its own apps a few months after the store launched in 2008.Related:The best apps of 2014 for Android, iPhone and iPadThe first few apps launched by ustwo sank without much trace, but MouthOff – an app that got you to hold your iPhone in front of your face, then showed one of various cartoon mouths lip-syncing to what you said – proved a hit.“We tried all sorts, but none of them worked until MouthOff. We lost so much money. MouthOff was the first one where we made a profit: tens of thousands, or maybe even a couple of hundred grand,” says Sinclair.In those early years of its move into apps, Miller was a regular at mobile industry conferences, mock-bragging about how little money ustwo was making, adopting the slogan of “succailure” to represent a combination of commercial failure with creative success – as well as learning valuable lessons from each release.This extended to ustwo’s category-hopping strategy, trying book-apps, creative apps, analytics tools and social apps in quick succession.“We never wanted to be second-guessable, but they all had a motivation behind them – whether it was about getting our name out in the developer community with PositionApp, or creating a design-based experimental platform like Granimator, or working with external people or companies as we did on Nursery Rhymes,” says Miller.“That whole talk I used to go on the road with, Succailure, was the embodiment of saying ‘well, we’re not making the millions that everyone claims you can make from apps, but the success in these perceived failures were all the learnings’. Every app we produced, we got so much out of it – at the very least, it was great marketing for our company.”Sinclair cuts in drily to note that Monument Valley was still a healthy step on: it made money, but also did an even better job of promoting ustwo – from the dozens of awards to the big brands that it attracted to the company’s client-services business.“The problem now is the bar is so unbelievably high for what we’re going to do next. But that’s the challenge: and we’re not just in this for financial gain. Commercials are just one part of success in this world,” says Sinclair.So what is ustwo doing next? The company has a four-pronged strategy, starting with the client-services business, which brought in just over £15m in 2013, according to the company’s last set of published financial accounts.Second, there’s ustwo’s own apps, including more games – but not a sequel to Monument Valley – which has now passed 4m downloads and $10m of revenues. “People expect it, but we’re not going to deliver it,” says Miller.The Dice app launched in 2014 as ustwo’s first joint venture.The third prong in ustwo’s strategy is joint ventures, starting withDice, which launched for London gig-goers in September 2014 as a way to browse upcoming gigs, buy tickets without booking fees, with the app functioning as the ticket to be scanned at the venue.“We don’t want to be the company that people now buy tickets from instead of other ticket companies. We want people going to 30 gigs a year instead of 10 gigs a year: for me, that’s true disruption, rather than just replacing something that’s there already,” says Sinclair.Related:Dice gambles on shaking up gig tickets: 'We're getting rid of the friction'Miller explains that a second joint venture is following: “A CBT [cognitive behavioural therapy) journalling app to help change people’s emotional states” that, judging by a quick Google search, iscurrently named Moments.Finally, ustwo is using the cash from its own apps and client work to become an investor, funding startups in and around the mobile industry. Its first investment was inMarvel, a mobile and web prototyping design tool that’s already signed up more than 125,000 users.“We’re not just going to do cash investments. It might vary from a £10k investment to a whole six-months with a team of 10 people to get something to a first round of funding,” Sinclair says.Both founders say that a restlessness to explore new technologies will also keep ustwo fresh. The studio has already moved into smartwatch design, building some of the first official watch faces for Google’s Android Wear.t is also thinking about in-car technology – ustwo recently published a video on YouTube of its early attempts to “reimagine the car dashboard”.“We’re having to continually change. If we’d only focused on mobile apps, we would have stagnated and died. Being on our toes and learning the new technology is what keeps companies alive,” says Miller.The company’s wider apps business hasn’t been without controversy: in 2012, the ustwo released a game called Papa Quash that wasquickly accused of being a cloneof indie developer Die Gute Fabrik’s existing Johann Sebastian Joust game.The game had been published on behalf of a former Big Brother contestant, Sam Pepper, with ustwo under the impression that he had received Die Gute Fabrik’s blessing.When this turned out not to be the case, the studio removed the game from sale, although Miller became a lightning rod for criticism of the company on Twitter, leading him to quit the social network for a year.“Twitter can be a really dark place, but you learn. I wouldn’t take it as seriously now as I did when I got hounded,” he says. “These things flame for a few days then disappear again.”Post Monument Valley, things are a lot more positive for ustwo, with Sinclair and Miller both enthusiastic about their colleagues’ willingness to constantly try new things.A glance at the company’s App Store catalogue suggests time management aidGeroand social music appParty Pooperare two of its latest experiments, while its YouTube channel reveals a partnership with the charity the Royal London Society for Blind People on a service called Wayfindr to help vision-impaired people navigate around cities.The interview ends with the pair bickering amicably over the size of ustwo’s next headquarters in London, with Sinclair mock-sighing every time Miller talks about a 100,000 sq ft “wonderland” as a done deal.“When we create our true utopia, it’s going to be this play-haven. A big place where we have this mixture of amazing client/services and products stuff, our investments and joint ventures. And also a school – we already haveCoderDojos here at weekends for young kids,” says Miller.“I never realised it was possible when we were younger, but I realise now anything is possible. We’re going to create this proper world of wow.”Sinclair raises his eyebrows, but Miller is undaunted: “And I’ll put my cape on and fly off the roof.”
Ross Ulbricht, the manconvicted of operating the deep web drug emporium Silk Road, has begged a judge to “leave a light at the end of the tunnel” in his sentence, which will be handed down on Friday in a federal courthouse in New York.After a speedy trial, Ulbricht was convicted in February on charges which include drug trafficking, money laundering and operating a continuing criminal enterprise.In March,it emergedthat two undercover FBI agents had extorted thousands of dollars’ worth of Bitcoin from Ulbricht during the course of the investigation.In its heyday, Silk Road was by far the largest drug emporium on the deep web. Estimates of its traffic ranged from $15m to as much as $50m in transactions every month. Using the cryptocurrency Bitcoin, users could buy practically every kind of drug imaginable, from ecstasy to LSD to heroin.Related:After the Silk Road conviction, Tor must be protectedVendors were reviewed by buyers to ensure quality, and the site was only accessible via the Tor encryption service. Drugs constituted most of the goods on sale, but users could also buy erotica, cigarettes and other legal services.The deep web has become notorious as a potential haven for darker services than just drugs, such as child pornography, stolen credit and ID cards, and even murder-for-hire; however, under terms of service those things were banned on Silk Road.Nonetheless, Ulbricht faces a minimum sentence of 20 years and a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. In a separate trial still pending in Maryland, Ulbricht is accused of trying to procure a murder-for-hire.In a letter sent to judge Katherine Forrest on Wednesday, Ulbricht expressed deep regret for founding the site, something he called a “naive and costly idea”.“Silk Road was supposed to be about giving people the freedom to make their own choices, to pursue their own happiness,” he said. “I learned from Silk Road that when you give people freedom, you don’t know what they’ll do with it.”He said that a life sentence was “more similar in nature to a death sentence than it is to a sentence with a finite number of years” and begged Forrest: “I know you must take away my middle years, but please leave me my old age.“Please leave a small light at the end of the tunnel, an excuse to stay healthy, an excuse to dream of better days ahead, and a chance to redeem myself before I meet my maker.”In another letter, however, prosecutors demanded that the judge set “a lengthy sentence, one substantially above the mandatory minimum” for Ulbricht, to set an example for those setting up other similar marketplaces which have proliferated since the shuttering of Silk Road.
Destiny, Activision’s hype-laden first person shooter, delighted and disappointed in equal measure: its perfectly balanced shooting action, created by Halo developer Bungie, was coupled with a humourlessly portentous, sketched-in storyline. House Of Wolves, the game’s second major add-on, won’t assuage any doubts you might be harbouring about the plot: you’re asked by the Queen to destroy the rival House Of Wolves, and you do it. But the action is as gripping as ever, adding tricky new missions and extending the level cap. It also gives you a new hub area in the Asteroid Belt, from which you can do all the equipment-buying, bounty-refreshing and engram-decoding you used to do back on Earth, with a more spectacular purple-hued backdrop. There are also fresh maps for the Crucible, Destiny’s competitive multiplayer area, and a new strike mission, Shadow Thief. It’s not cheap, but if you’re still playing Destiny, chances are you’d pay almost anything for something new to do.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKFossil Fighters: Frontier, 3DSFossil Fighters: FrontierIn Fossil Fighters, the petrified dinosaur bones you unearth get reanimated into “vivosaurs” who fight on your behalf. You drive around in a “bone buggy” using sonar to find new fossils, then hammering and drilling out the bony heads, arms, legs and ribcages you’ve found via the touch screen. One body part is enough to assemble a functioning vivosaur, with each subsequent bit you dig up making it bigger and stronger. Although superficially similar to Pokémon, it’s nowhere near as deep or inventive. And while digging up fossils with the 3DS stylus is an enticing prospect, the reality is instantly dreary. Budding palaeontologists may get a kick out of simulated dino-bone discovery, but Frontier is at least as lacklustre as the first two games in this bafflingly long-lived franchise.Nintendo, £32.86Farming Simulator 15, PS3/4, Xbox One/360, PC &amp; MacFarming Simulator 15Turning the thankless, repetitious grind of farming into something fun is the sort of task that would send most people running for the hills. Built on the foundation of loans, repayments for which need to be made on time, you gradually build up your farm, adding new crops along with cattle, sheep or poultry. Although there’s something oddly satisfying about driving a combine harvester through a field of swaying wheat, doing the whole field in a series of tediously accurate stripes, pausing occasionally to empty your vehicle’s grain hopper, is more like a job than something you’d pay to do recreationally. When you combine that with the need to cultivate each field first, before moving on to sowing seeds, all with the same slow, precise driving back and forth, over and over again, you’ve got a simulated ordeal rather than a game. It’s prettier than past outings, the machinery shinier and more realistic, but at heart this is about careful budgeting and monotonous routine, neither of which is the cornerstone of a good night in.Giants Software, £23.83‑£37.99
You have to hand it to Polish studio, Destructive Creations – it set out to build a narrative of controversy and rebellion from the start, and it succeeded. In October 2014, the team released a ludicrous trailer for its isometric third-person shooter, Hatred. A gravel-voiced killer is pictured gathering an arsenal of weapons with which to embark on a murder spree, his motive a hate-filled contempt for society. “This is the time of vengeance and no life is worth saving,” he intones with an aggrandised misanthropy that doesn’t just sidle up to self-parody, but vaults the fence and charges in all guns blazing. And then we see in-game footage, and it’s basically Postal, a 1997 PC game in which the player controls an anonymous character on, yes, a psychopathic murder spree. That’s it. That’s what Hatred offers.From there, the studio garnered a series of PR coups. Game sites rushed to reflect on the “controversy” of the trailer’s content; then the title wasbriefly removed from Steam Greenlight, essentially the peer review section of the world’s dominant PC games retail platform. Accusations of corporate censorship abounded, and later, Gabe Newell, chief executive of Steam developer Valve,publicly reinstated the titleand apologised for its removal.Now, Twitch, the world’s largest video game streaming platform, which allows players to share their screened experiences with a potential audience of over 50 million subscribers, has got involved. Earlier this weekthe service announcedthat users would not be allowed to broadcast content from games rated Adults Only (AO) by the Entertainment Software Ratings Board (ESRB), North America’s certification organisation for video games.As Hatred was given an AO rating in January, and as the title is due for release on Steam on 1 June, it looks as though the ruling has been designed specifically to prevent people from streaming this particular title. AO ratings are, after all, extremely rare – only a handful of titles (including Manhunt 2, Fahrenheit: Indigo Prophecy Director’s Cut and Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude Uncut and Uncensored) have been certified AO, and most of those more for sexual than violent content. Gratuitous violence usually edges into the Mature category.An AO rating from the ESRB is usually commercial death for a video game. It means major US retailers won’t stock it and consoles like PlayStation and Xbox won’t allow it. But in the digital market, if the distribution platform is willing to stock it, it can garner a global audience. Which is what Hatred now has. When it was included on gaming community platform Steam Greenlight, it received 13,148 “yes” votes supporting its inclusion, a very high number for an unknown project.But the galling thing about this game isn’t its content, which is ridiculously juvenile fantasy violence, but the ease with which Destructive Creations (even the studio name is a cheap gag), has been able to exploit the ongoing culture war between entrenched “hardcore” gamers and liberal critics. Witness the following oft-quoted statement from the studio website:These days, when a lot of games are heading to be polite, colorful, politically correct and trying to be some kind of higher art, rather than just an entertainment – we wanted to create something against trends. Something different, something that could give the player a pure, gaming pleasure.It is so obviously laser-targeted at certain communities of gamers currently feeling marginalised and threatened as game developers broaden their horizons and explore new themes and audiences. It is the cynical appropriation and encapsulation of a million furious games forums comments about “social justice warriors” – feminists, white knights and beta males – ruining the industry by handwringing over sexist tropes and poor representation. Hatred presents itself as a cause, a flag to wave against the perceived over-politicisation of game content. Hatred is making a stand.But a stand against what? Against a smattering of mainstream Triple A titles that have chosen to contextualise the violence they portray? A stand against small indie studios looking to explore the possibilities of games beyond the madding crowd of military shooters, sports sims and fantasy brawlers? A stand against cultural critics now examining games with the same lenses through which they have viewed movies and music for 50 years?Hatred is not a rebellious game. It is an isometric third-person twin-stick shooter that adheres to the conventions of that ancient genre with obsequious rigidity. Its understanding of anarchy is a teenager’s bedroom delusion, a comedic supermarket sweep of deadbeat pulp horror cliches. It is the slasher film, the death metal band, of games – providing the same sort of production line viscerality to the kids who think Slipknot and the Saw movies are cool and transgressive. It is as dangerous and provocative as telling your mum you’ve brushed your teeth when you haven’t.Of course, the rebellious kidults will find ways to stream themselves playing Hatred and laughingly stabbing passersby in the face; forums are already buzzing with alternative streaming platforms that don’t bar AO material. Perhaps Twitch should have just implemented a robust age-gate system – but then, of course, what it allows to be shown on its own platform is up to the company. It says it wants to create “a safe, welcoming, inclusive community” and feels that AO games – and perhaps Hatred in particular – have no place in that. It’s not censorship in any real sense of the word, although, as with Steam andits stranglehold on the PC gaming market, a case could be made that Twitch banishment amounts to a corporate restriction on creative freedom.But really, Hatred is just a silly shooting game that seeks to tap dance between self-deprecating parody and pseudo-anarchic posturing so that it captures all sections, moods and arguing positions of its target demographic. Postal was here 18 years ago, Carmageddon before that, Death Race before that, all hoping to draw the same idolatrous response from the same sorts of alienated adolescents feeling frustrated, isolated and powerless at the world. Unlike Rockstar’s most controversial games, Manhunt and Grand Theft Auto, it has no obvious sense of cultural guile, no clear determination to explore the concept of player culpability. It’s just a game where you kill people. Being a games editor, it’s something I guess I have to think about, but unless you’re a tabloid writer with a very quiet news day, it doesn’t matter. As with the fury of its online proponents, we can let it slip away, like digital blood down a virtual drain.
Apple’s text messaging bug that can crash iPhones with simple text also affects Twitter and permanently breaks Snapchat text chat.The bug, which causes Apple’s text handling system tochoke on certain charactersfrom Arabic, Marathi and Chinese and crashes theiPhone, iPad, Apple Watch or Mac, also affects apps running on iOS.The booby-trapped message can be sent over Twitter, as highlighted to the Guardian by the security researcher Mikko Hypponen, either using direct messages or public mentions. If the recipient uses an iPhone and has notifications turned on, a message will instantly crash their smartphone. The message did not cause lasting damage in our testing.Twitter attack.Snapchat is also affected. When sent a text chat with the offending string, it permanently crashes the iPhone when the user attempts to read it.The bug means that the user cannot open their chat history with the person who sent the message without crashing their iPhone.The message cannot be cleared, but other messages can be sent to and received from other contacts.The Snapchat conversation cannot be recovered.Apple issuedrecovery instructions for its Messages app, which involves using Siri to reply to a message allowing users to then delete that conversation. A similar recovery method can use the Photos app to send a picture to a contact and gain access to the message history so it can be deleted.The company said that a fix for the bug via a software update will be provided, but is yet to do so.While no reports of hackers maliciously exploiting the text bug have surfaced yet, many users have been sending the text string to friends, family and strangers attempting to crash their iPhones.Beware of this text string being sent to Snapchat, via Twitter or many other apps on an iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch or Mac.Photograph: Alex Hern for the GuardianThose wanting to protect themselves from the text of death can disable notifications, but that will not prevent Snapchat and other third-party apps from being disabled.•No Apple product is safe: iPhone text message bug can crash Apple Watch, iPad and Mac too
Hey, it’s Friday!
Google has launched new features for its Google Play store to make it easier for parents to find Android apps, games and videos for children.They include a “Family” filter for the store’s apps, games and movies and TV sections; the ability to browse apps by age range, plus a new system of “star badges” to display age ratings – and dedicated pages on the store for popular kids’ brands.Related:The best Android apps for kids of 2014“Parents can now find family destinations across the Play store, with new features for browsing by age and interests,” explained Google Play product manager Eunice Kimin a blog post.“We’re also providing more useful information about apps and content on Google Play and improved tools so you can decide what’s right for your family.”The introduction of the star badge system follows Google’s announcement in March that it wasrolling out a new age-rating system for Android apps and games, alongside a new review process for apps before they went live on Google Play.Google will also now tell parents if a family app includes advertising within its listing on the store – adding to the existing notification about in-app purchases – and is updating its parental controls to enable people to restrict downloads, purchases and streams of content that isn’t suitable for children.Android apps will now show age-ratings and advertising alerts.Among the brands getting their own pages on Google Play are Peppa Pig, Star Wars, Frozen, SpongeBob SquarePants, Sesame Street’s Elmo, Mickey Mouse Clubhouse and Thomas &amp; Friends.“Lego, Barbie and other kids and family brands are some of the most popular searches on Google Play,” wrote Kim, adding that each page will include recommendations for apps, ebooks and movies.Google’s move followsApple’s launch of a “Kids” category in its App Storein 2013, as part of that company’s iOS 7 software update for iPhones and iPads. Apple’s system also separates children’s apps by age rating, and highlights collections from specific brands and developers.Google’s latest announcements are part of a wider drive by the company around children and parents using its software and services, sparking controversy along the way.In February,the company launched its YouTube Kids app in the US, promising a feed of child-friendly videos without comments or a requirement to log in to the service, describing it as “a friendlier version of YouTube for families”.Related:Apps' data collection from children comes under UK privacy reviewYouTube Kids has since come under fire in the US from watchdog groups,initially because of the advertising that appears within the app– and claims of possible product placement within some popular YouTube channel for children – and more recently aftervideos including alcohol and swearing slipped through its filter.Four of the top five YouTube channels in March this year were aimed at children, withYouTube providing funding for a new show from child-friendly Minecraft gamer Stampyin April as the first step in a drive to secure more exclusives in this area.Outside YouTube,Google also acquired children’s apps developer Launchpad Toysin February. The company was responsible for the Toontastic series of creative storytelling apps, as well as a video-creation app for children called TeleStory.Google alsorecently filed a patent for an “anthropomorphic device”– illustrated in its filing by a toy rabbit and a teddy bear – capable of detecting movements and voice commands, and controlling nearby devices in the home.
Hey Siri, can you help me get access to my texts again after that strange message I received consisting of non-Latin characters crashed my iPhone? In advance of a software update to fix the bug, yes it can.Apple has published a temporary workaround for iOS users affected by the bug, which wasfound to affect iPhones earlier in the week, and subsequently revealed to becapable of affecting the Apple Watch, iPads and Macs.In anew article published on its support website, Apple outlined a three-step process, enabling people to open their Messages app again:Ask Siri to “read unread messages”.Use Siri to reply to the malicious message. After you reply, you’ll be able to open Messages again.In Messages, swipe left to delete the entire thread. Or tap and hold the malicious message, tap More, and delete the message from the thread.The booby-trapped text message presented characters – including those from Arabic, Chinese and Marathi – in a specific sequence that choked Apple’s CoreText system, crashing the recipient’s device and leaving them unable to access their messages.Related:iPhone text message bug can crash Apple Watch, iPad and Mac tooPranksters seized upon the message to crash friends’ iPhones, but security experts have warned that this kind of bug has the potential to be used for more malicious purposes in the future.“Programming errors in Unicode decoding and rendering will produce more errors like this, some of which may be exploitable to access elevated privilege levels on devices,” said Ken Simpson, chief executive of email security company MailChannels – although he noted that such an exploit had not yet been developed.SMS exploits are not a new trend, however. In 2009, two cybersecurity researchersuncovered loopholes that enabled them to hack in to iPhonesby sending a series of text messages, with Apple patching the vulnerability that July.Apple plans to fix the current messaging bug without the need for Siri soon. “Apple is aware of an iMessage issue caused by a specific series of unicode characters and we will make a fix available in a software update,” explained its support page.
Google’s next version of Android software for smartphones, tablets, watches and TVs is called “M” and will aim to beef up security while conserving battery life, the tech company announced on Thursday at I/O, its annual developer conference in San Francisco.With Android M, Google is attempting to spread its mobile operating system far and wide, building on previous initiatives with last year’s Android “Lollipop” and its developing-world focused Android One for low-cost smartphones.The new version, which will reach Google’s own-brand Nexus smartphones and tablets later this year, is focused on battery life, security and privacy.App that knows what you meant to say“Machine learning” was the phrase that dominated the conference’s opening address, as Google unveiled multiple uses for its ever-smarter algorithms. “Machine learning is what helps us answer the question what does a tree frog look like from millions of users around the world,” said Google SVP Sundar Pichai.Now On Tap, the upgrade to Google Now, will be able to find search strings based on butchered pronunciations, tags it made up itself, and pronouns. The Googlers demonstrated Now On Tap’s ability to pull context from applications – in a demo, a user listening to Skrillex said “What’s his real name?” and Now On Tap responded with “Sonny John Moore”.Longer-lasting smartphonesBattery life is a primary pain point for smartphone users. Android 5 Lollipop offered around 15% better battery life on the same smartphone over Android 4.4 KitKat, Android 6 M should go one better by improving the operating system’s control of background apps.M promises to stop poorly coded and power-hungry apps from draining the battery unnecessarily, extending standby times and hopefully having a positive impact on real-world usage. The company’s Dave Burke said mobile devices lasted up to twice as long on standby with the M’s new feature, Doze.Burke also said the company would be supporting a new USB charger standard USB-C, which will allow you to charge other devices using the phone’s battery.Google’s Jen Fitzpatrick presented the company’s various low-cost initiatives, including support for phones with dual Sim cards and FM radio, and limited offline versions of YouTube and Maps, including driving directions.Unlimited Photo StorageGoogle’s social network, Google+, which was heavily integrated into multiple parts of the Android operating system is also taking a back seat in the next version of Android, but photos are front and center.Photos will allow users to index and find images of “people, places and things that matter the most in my life”, as the company’s Anil Sabharwal put it. Sabharwal demonstrated on his own phone, where he was able to type in “snowstorm in Toronto” or the name of his niece and immediately find pics that Photos had tagged automatically – information, he stressed, that was private to the individual user.Google has broken out its Photos app from Google+, meaning that users no longer need an account with the social network to see, edit and back up photos, now plugging into Google’s cloud storage solution, Drive.Google also rolled out a series of new privacy options, that build on the “AppOpps” framework that was exposed two years ago by third-party developers, but removed in Android 5 Lollipop.Privacy and security improvementsA man wearing Google Glass waits for the Google I/O keynote presentation on Thursday.Photograph: Jeff Chiu/APSeveral Android variants, including the popular Cyanogen OS, include extensive controls over the kinds of personal data apps have access to on a smartphone. Apple’s iOS has had similar features for a couple of years, now Google’s Android is catching up.“We’re greatly simplifying app permissions,” said Google’s Dave Burke. “Apps will now ask you for permissions the first time you try to use a feature, instead of asking during app installation.” The move catches Google up to iOS.The system will allow users to deny apps access to location, personal information and data on a case-by-case basis, improving the permissions system beyond an accept-all as it currently stands in older versions of Android.Google also unveiled improved support for biometric authentication methods, including fingerprints, which until now have relied on third-party manufacturers such as Samsung building their own security systems to support.The biometric additions open up the pathway to fingerprint- and iris-authenticated payments and other secure login systems.Google’s Android Pay, which like Apple Pay and Samsung Pay, allows users to pay for goods and services contactlessly using their smartphones, will use fingerprint identification.Contactless payments made via smartphones in the US totaled $3.5bn (£2.3bn) in 2014, according to data from eMarketer. This year that figure is expected to reach $8.95bn, and $27.5bn by 2016.Beyond Android on smartphones and tablets, Google also emphasised its intentions to be an integral part of the “internet of things”. Having bought the smart thermostat and smoke detector company Nest, Google unveiled a dedicated internet of things operating system.Android Auto could form a strong part of that new ecosystem. The Hyundai Sonata recently became the first car to roll off the production line with Android Auto, allowing drivers to connect to their smartphones and pull Google Maps and other Google apps directly on to their dashboards.Virtual RealityClay Bavor, vice-president of product management, also took the stage to talk about virtual reality. Bavor introduced Expeditions, a new product that will allow teachers in Detroit to take kids of VR field trips to the Great Wall of China or a coral reef. It’s a program developed in tandem with teachers.Bavor held forth on the company’s low-fi solutions to VR problems. “If you want to capture something that’s truly immersive, there are really only a handful of very custom camera rigs in the world that’ll do the job, and even they have their limitations,” Bavor said.He presented a rig with “custom geometry”, saying that it could be printed on 3D printers or made out of cardboard and used with off-the-shelf cameras. The plans will be distributed online, and YouTube will be able to host the environments.
Google intends to be the center of the connected home with its new “internet of things” operating system, Brillo.Google Brillo is designed to run on and connect multiple low-power devices, connecting anything from a washing machine to a rubbish bin and linking in with existing Google technologies.The move is an expansion of the company’s Android mobile operating system, which powers more than half of the world’s smartphones, and therecent acquisition of Nest– a smart-device company with a learning thermostat and smoke alarm.Brillo is designed to be a bare-bones system that allows easy connection between devices. It would give Google a beachhead into the expanding connected device ecosystem. Part of establishing that beachhead is Weave, a competing standard to Apple’s HomeKit (set to ramp up later this year), which can work independently of Brillo and allows apps in the smart lamps of the future to talk to apps in smart soap dispensers.“Weave is available cross-platform,” said Google senior vice-president Sundar Pichal. “You can have Brillo and Weave together or you can have Weave alone.” There will also be voice interface, so that when you talk your refrigerator will listen.The internet of things (IoT) essentially describes an environment where everything is connected to the internet, creating “swarm intelligence” from individually dumb devices. Bins, toasters, roads and lights will be able to talk to each other for automatic, more efficient control and monitoring.For instance, a bin could tell the council or city when it is full and needs collecting, rather than just on a set schedule. A fridge could detect when the milk is empty and order another pint. A heating or air conditioning system could track its owner and only turn on when they are on their way home.The IoT has promised much for years – it was recently identified, by the research firm Garner, as the most over-hyped technology in development.One of the biggest issues for IoT is the lack of interoperable standards. Google is not the only company interested in the connected device space.Having bought IoT firm Smart Things, Samsungrecently pledgedto make every product it produces, from washing machines to smartphones, IoT-ready and connected to the internet within five years.IoT risks becoming a format war, wherein your Beko oven doesn’t speak to your Smeg fridge, because each is using proprietary connections and software.Samsung has said its IoT devices will be open to connecting to non-Samsung devices. Google, however, could be well placed to open up an IoT ecosystem featuring compatibility with other offerings.
The Federal Communications Commission announced Thursday that it would be seeking to implement a $1.7bn subsidy plan to benefit low-income internet users.The plan would expand Lifeline, a program that has since its 1985 inception covered only telephone service. The full proposal is expected on 18 June, and, if approved, could go into effect shortly thereafter.In ablog postFCC chairman Tom Wheeler said he was seeking to “reboot Lifeline for the internet age.”“Broadband is key to Lifeline’s future. In 2015, broadband access is essential to find a job: more than 80% of Fortune 500 job openings are online. Americans need broadband to keep a job, as companies increasing require basic digital literacy skills. We rely on broadband to manage and receive healthcare, and to help our children do their homework. A 2012 study estimated that broadband helps a typical US consumer saves $8,800 a year by providing access to bargains on goods and services,” wrote Wheeler.“But nearly 30% of Americans still haven’t adopted broadband at home, and low-income consumers disproportionately lack access. While more than 95% of households with incomes over $150,000 have broadband, only 48% of those making less than $25,000 have service at home. A world of broadband ‘haves’ and ‘have-nots’ is a world where none of us will have the opportunity to enjoy the full fruits of what broadband has to offer.”The program’s expansion would allow consumers who qualify for Lifeline to spend its $9.25 subsidy on internet or phone as they see fit.The largest internet adoption program run by an actual ISP – launched, in fact, as a condition mandated by the FCC when Comcast merged with NBCUniversal – is Comcast’s Internet Essentials, which is available to consumers for $9.95 a month. A senior FCC official, asked about the 70-cent discrepancy, said the pricetag was “the interim amount.” Regulators have proposed to maintain it at $9.25, he said, but have sought comment on whether they should change the number.This is third major overhaul the FCC has made this year. It’s been just over three months since the agency answered pleas from consumer rights advocates to favor “net neutrality” and declared internet service providers common carriers, alongside telephone companies.The same day – 26 February – the FCC overrode state lawsheavily supported by telecomsthat barred superfast municipal broadband providers from competing with big wheels like AT&amp;T and Time Warner. Both rulings have been hotly contested by ISPs, with multiple lawsuits are pending on each of them.Now, chairman Tom Wheeler and the FCC are doubling down on the “common carrier” designation, asking not just private companies but the state to treat the web like the telephone – and to pass on subsidy money to the ISPs still stinging from the reclassification.Less than half of Americans – 48% –who make less than $25,000 annually have internet access, and that lack of service puts them, perversely, at a financial disadvantage to wealthier consumers who can afford the monthly fee, since they tend to fall back on smartphones, which charge by the gigabyte for data.“[B]roadband access is essential for access to education and information, for managing and receiving health care, for daily tasks like accessing government services, checking bank balances, finding bargains on goods and services, and more,” said the FCC in an emailed statement to press.“People depend on high-speed internet to get their most basic needs met, to exercise their freedom of speech, and to participate in democracy. It’s a good thing that the FCC is attempting to address issues of inequality in broadband access, but it would be better to go to the root of the problem and break up the telecom monopolies that are ratcheting up Internet costs for everyone to line their CEO’s pockets at the expense of our entire society’s wellbeing,” said Evan Greer, campaign director for internet activist groupFight for the Future.Berin Szoka, president of libertarian think tank TechFreedom said the move would lead to higher taxes for all internet users. Lifeline spendinggrew 25.9% annuallyfrom 2008 to 2012, from $819m to $2.19bn, said Szoka, and needed to be capped. “The FCC is dodging the obvious: expanding Lifeline means new broadband taxes and higher taxes overall on telecom services,” he said.
Anextensionfor the Chrome web browser has been developed that allows people to pinpoint the precise location, to within a metre, of Facebook Messenger users.The app – named Mauraders Map after themagical map in the Harry Potter booksthat showed the identity, locations and movements of all individuals – has been created by Harvard computer science and mathematics student,Aran Khanna.Exploiting Facebook default location settings that are toggled on both the iOS and Android mobile app, and have to beturned be off manually, the app pulls in latitude and longitude coordinates using GPS (global positioning system) capabilities.The Marauders Map extension allows users’ locations to be tracked to within a metre of accuracy.Photograph: Marauders MapKhanna found that the coordinates wereaccurate to a staggering five decimal places, allowing him to identify not only a friend’s college dormitory but also the room.The Javascript location data includes time stamps, which means that a person’s movements can be tracked minute by minute, hour by hour, going back months and,in some cases, years.A user’s entire past location history can be tracked back to the first instance of a messaging conversation. What’s more, an individual doesn’t have to be “friends” with another user to be able to track their location, just part of the same messaging thread.Writing on Medium, Khanna expressed surprise at how many contacts had not taken steps to turn off location settings, which are not immediately obvious in Facebook’s mobile user interface.“Everyone I have shown this extension to has been anywhere from surprised to appalled that this much of their very personal data is online for their friends (and even complete strangers) to access. So it is seems that there is an issue.“The main problem is that every time you open your phone and send a single message it’s so easy to forget about your location data being attached to it. Furthermore, it seems so harmless to attach a location with a single message, but the problem is, over time the information from these messages adds up.”The map in the left hand side of this Marauders Mapscreenshot tracks a user’s movements.Photograph: Marauders MapOriginally developed using mapping platformMapboxand discovered bythe Next Web, the extension proved so popular that Mapbox has since revoked the API (application program interface) key, rendering that version defunct.However, theMarauders Map codecan still be found on open source websiteGitHub, allowing the extension to be rebuilt. Facebook is thought to be working on a fix to disable the tracking extension. The company acknowledged receipt of Guardian requests for comment but has so far yet to issue a statement.Ever since whistleblower Edward Snowden exposed themass communications interceptions of the NSA and GCHQ– the intelligence agencies of the United States and UK respectively – the issue of privacy has been thrust into global public consciousness.While debate in the US has led to the bulk collection of phone data by the NSAbeing outlawed, with the future of other surveillance laws yet to be decided upon, the British prime minister, David Cameron, this week announced “turbo-charged” legislation to extend snooping powers that wereblocked in a previous government coalition.
In what is likely to be the only piece of positive PR that the world football governing body will receive this week, publisher Electronic Arts has announced it will be introducing female footballers into its Fifa video game series, beginning with the forthcoming Fifa 16 edition.The game features 12 international all-female teams, 11 of whom will appear at next month’sWorld Cup finals, including hosts Canada as well as England, Brazil, Germany and Spain.For each squad, the regular first 11 – along with select reserves – have been facially scanned using the same techniques applied to the men’s game, so photorealistic versions of world player of the year Nadine Kessler, USA all-time leading scorer Abby Wambach, and England skipper Steph Houghton are all certain to feature.USA forward Sydney Leroux provides female-specific motion capture at EA Sports’ Vancouver HQ for the Fifa 16 game.Photograph: EA SportsWambach also spent a day providing female-specific motion capture at developer EA Sports’ Vancouver HQ, along with USA team-mates Sydney Leroux, Alex Morgan and Megan Rapinoe.Fifa 16 certainly won’t be the first football sim to include female players. In 2000, UK studio Silicon Dreams included women’s football in its Mia Hamm 64 Soccer and Uefa Dream Soccer titles, though both reviewed poorly at the time.Series vice-president and general manager David Rutter claims that his team has been working to overcome the technical challenges of including women in its football sim for a considerable time.“It’s been in the pipeline for a few years, and really it was just a case of making sure that the game was in a good enough state for it the work properly,” said Rutter. “We needed to have tools and technology in place that could differentiate between men and women. Plus, we had to factor in the time and effort required for travelling around the world to scan faces and heads, record motion capture, etc. It’s been on the to-do list for a while.”Indeed, two years ago, Ruttertold gaming website Kotakuthat female teams were something the studio had considered. It’s natural to wonder, then, whether the process of implementing them was expedited by last June’sbacklash against Assassin’s Creed: Unity, which saw publisher Ubisoft lambasted for its negative attitude to the prospect of a female protagonist. Rutter insists that’s not the case.Related:52% of gamers are women – but the industry doesn’t know it | Meg JayanthRather, he claims, three years into this generation of consoles, the team finally has sufficient knowledge of PS4 and Xbox One’s development systems to retool critical elements of the match engine for female players.England captain Steph Houghton.Photograph: David Davies/PA Archive“The big change we’ve had to make is rebuilding the animation rig, in order that the skeleton underneath each player works with different proportions,” said Rutter. “Our underlying animation system was universally based on height and build. Rather than manipulating the proportions between joint and bone, it was like stretching an elastic band.“Now we’ve had to implement a new system that allows for the hips to be moved, the shoulders to be moved vertically, and the width of those bones and joints to be a factor too. It’s a pretty big change. The cool side effects are that we now have scalable skeletons, so we can also support different body types in the men’s side of the game.”There have been more obvious visual challenges too. “A large number of female athletes have long hair, so we’ve had to focus on improving that element too,” said Rutter. “Again, that enables us to improve the look of male players with similar hairstyles.”The underlying gameplay engine remains identical to the men’s game, although attributes and traits are scaled to other players of the same sex. “You will get 80-rated players in the women’s teams but they’re not the same as an 80-rated player in the men’s game,” explained Rutter. “Our Cologne team [which handles all player data] has been through a ton of women’s matches over the last year or so, gathering details, information and their opinion on the players, in order to create these ratings.”Sydney Leroux rendered in the Fifa 16 game.Photograph: EA SportsFor now, that means no plans this year to include male vs female matches (“As in real life, the sport itself doesn’t support that. If that changed, we definitely would”) or feature women footballers in the series’ most popular mode, Ultimate Team. The women’s teams – which also include USA, Mexico, Sweden, France, China, Australia and Italy – can be utilised in friendlies both on and offline, in addition to a bespoke offline tournament mode.Related:Who are the best female characters in video games?The studio did discuss making an all-female Ultimate Team, as well as including the female teams from clubs such as Manchester City, but felt it too much of a stretch in this inaugural season. “We have 12 international teams,” said Rutter. “That won’t give us a population large enough to make anything close to a good Ultimate Team mode. We could have gone down the road of creating domestic leagues as well, but we probably wouldn’t have been able to stretch our resources far enough this year to provide a believable and broad crop of players.”While domestic female teams seem a natural ambition for the future, in the short term Rutter said he is looking forward to delivering his eight- and 11-year-old daughters to school in peace. “The younger one in particular is a very keen footballer, and I get a lot of stick on the playground about us not including women in the game. Finally being able to say we are will make for a refreshing change.“For girls of that age, or indeed any age, it doesn’t make sense for there not to be any women in Fifa. In the past there has always been a general acceptance that they weren’t in there. But within my household and social circle it’s always been significantly disappointing that female gamers couldn’t play Fifa with footballers of their own sex.“I’m really glad we’re doing it. We’ve got some cracking teams in there and there’ll be some amazing matches. It’s a big relief for everyone.”Fifa 16 is out on multiple formats later this year.The Guardian interviewed Rutter shortly after the death of long-time colleague Simon Humber, from ocular melanoma, aged 45. Humber wasthe Fifa series’ creative director.“When you make video games, you spend a great deal of time with people, and shipping an annual title makes a team very close,” says Rutter. “I worked with Simon daily for seven years, and feel like I – and the team – lost a family member. In terms of his legacy within Fifa, he was the daddy of Ultimate Team, and played a big role in career mode – many of the features coming this year were ones he was leading development on. We’ve planted a tree outside our office in his memory, and it was astonishing to read the reaction from so many in the Fifa community after he died.” Our condolences go out to Humber’s workmates, friends and family.
At least 15 motorists are to be prosecuted for using a mobile phone to take pictures or video of a four-lorry pile-up.The collision happened on the A14 between Histon and Girton, in Cambridgeshire, at about 5.45am on Thursday and involved a lorry carrying seven and a half tonnes of teddy bears. Two of the lorry drivers suffered minor injuries.Crown Prosecution Service figures showthere were 7,380 prosecutions for using a mobile phone while driving in 2011, 10 times as many as six years earlier. However, this figure is dwarfed by the number of motorists using their mobile phones while driving, which wasmore than 500,000 last year,according to a government survey published in February.A Cambridgeshire police spokesman said: “So far, at least 15 motorists have been stopped for filming or taking pictures of the crash site with mobile phones and are due to be prosecuted.”This is what was left this morning after our crews rescued a casualty froma two-HGV collision on#A14w/bound#girtonpic.twitter.com/WmrRo0gvUw&mdash; Cambs Fire &amp; Rescue (@cambsfrs)May 28, 2015Cambridgeshire fire and rescue service had to cut one of the drivers from his lorry using specialist equipment. East of England ambulance service said the other injured man had chest pains. A spokesman said: “The patients were both fully conscious and were treated at the scene before being taken to Addenbrooke’s hospital for further care. Neither of the patients’ injuries are thought to be life-threatening.”The crash caused heavy congestion in the area. One lane of the A14 remained closed at midday but was expected to reopen at 1pm. Police have asked for witnesses to the collision to contact them.Phones may only be used when safely parked or when it is an emergency and it is not possible to stop. People who break the law can getan automatic fixed penalty notice of three penalty points and a fine of £100. If prosecuted, offenders can be disqualified from driving and get a maximum fine of £1,000.
A painted bronze sculpture of Sir Tim Berners-Lee carrying the leather rucksack in which he keeps his laptop has been unveiled at theNational Portrait Gallery.Apart from photographs, it is the first commissioned portrait of the inventor of the world wide web.The two-thirds life-size statue was made by Sean Henry, who spent two days watching and photographing Berners-Lee in Boston. The computer scientist later had two further sittings at Henry’s studio in the UK.Henry said: “Tim is a very dynamic person to sculpt as he has a very active mind and is active physically, too.“Above all, what came through was his strong sense of purpose … it felt important to try to capture this in the work.”The sculpture was commissioned by the gallery to celebrate Berners-Lee’s 60th birthday, was sponsored by JP Morgan and is the NPG’s first commissioned portrait sculpture for seven years.Sir Tim Berners-Lee: how the web went from idea to realityRosie Broadley, associate curator at the NPG, said Henry’s sculpted figures are usually anonymous, and in this one he had retained the idea of his subject being an “everyman”.“The depiction of the sitter is resolutely contemporary, but the use of bronze has a timeless and permanent quality appropriate for a sitter with such a significant legacy,” said Broadley.London-born Berners-Lee developed the web, starting from a proposal in 1989, and founded theWorld Wide Web Foundationin 2009, an organisation that seeks to establish access to the web as a basic human right.Sir Tim Berners-Lee by Sean Henry is on display in Room 40 of the National Portrait Gallery from Friday.
The bug that causes iPhones to crash when they receive aboobytrapped text messagealso affects the Apple Watch, iPads and Macs.The crash is caused by a bug within a core system common to all of Apple’s devices that handles text. When presented with non-Latin characters in a specific sequence – including those from Arabic, Chinese andMarathi– the CoreText system chokes, causing it to fail and bring the entire operating system to a halt.Appletoldthe Guardian that it is aware of the bug and will issue a software update to fix it. How long that update will take is unknown: 24 hours after the bug was revealed, it has not been fixed.The bug, which was originally identifiedcausing crashes on iPhones, has now been shown to also affect the Apple Watch, causing it to crash when attempting to reply to the offending message via voice using Siri.The Apple Watch isn’t safe from the boobytrapped text message.The text message has also caused iPads to crash, and reportedly can affect Mac laptops and desktops too.“As the issue also affects OS X applications, a malicious party could set the triggering text as a server message of the day or welcome message, causing a user’s terminal to crash when authenticating to network services,” Mathew Hickey, principal security consultant at MDSectold Forbes.While most people are using the message as a prank to crash friends’ iPhones, experts have not ruled out that the text string could be used for more malicious attacks, with potentially damaging consequences.This message will cause an iPhone, Apple Watch and many other Apple products to crash.Photograph: Alex Hern for the Guardian“Programming errors in Unicode decoding and rendering will produce more errors like this, some of which may be exploitable to access elevated privilege levels on devices,” said Ken Simpson chief executive of spam filtering and email security company MailChannels. “Such a vulnerability/exploit is not yet in the wild, but if developed this would represent an immediate and severe threat to all iOS device users worldwide.”Those wishing to protect themselves from these attacks can turn off the notification system on iOS devices and stop SMS or iMessages being delivered to the Apple Watch.Mac users are less likely to affected by the bug – sending the string via iMessages did not trigger a crash in the Guardian’s testing – but those using the Terminal app to access resources across the internet should be aware that it could be affected if exposed to the text string.•Apple finally fixes iMessage bug•Wi-Fi hack creates ‘no iOS zone’ that cripples iPhones and iPads
Splatoon – Nintendo’s take on shooting games – is as wonderfully, vibrantly creative as the phrase “Nintendo’s take on shooting games” might suggest. An entirely unique central mechanic removes the usual assault-rifle-toting grunts in favour of shape-shifting squids with a guns full of ink. Your aim is to paint the environment with as much of your team’s colour as possible, taking out rival players as you go.At any point, if you look down at your Game Pad controller, you can see the world being slowly covered with lurid ink, like an animated Jackson Pollock painting, giving you an indication of both score and movement. At the end of each fiercely contested, inky tug-of-war, a chubby cat announces the score as a percentage, tallying up the two with a slow build and a sudden reveal.The controls and basic concept are familiar – grab a weapon, fire it in the general direction of the other team until you win – but the visual style and the underlying systems are new. Splatoon’s fashion sense is straight out of a day-glo, sport-punk future influenced by Nickelodeon and energy drinks, a faux-Tokyo street look with a cleverly designed nonsense font that teeters on the legible, and the obvious overtones of Super Mario Sunshine’s harbour level. The result is something that’s so cohesive and instantly recognisable in its ingredients yet utterly new as a whole – and that’s just how it plays, too.In true Nintendo style, none of it is meaningless set-dressing: the clothes and weapons, as silly and odd as they are (ranging from your standard-issue squirt gun to more left-field choices, such as the paint roller) provide stat buffs and special abilities. The bright colours serve to both detach Splatoon from its staid, solemn shooter brethren and to tie it into the 90s cartoon aesthetic it longs for. Meanwhile, your character can switch from human form into a squid, which enables you to swim invisibly through the sea of ink; the gorgeous fluid animations conjure up memories of washed-up celebs being gunked on children’s TV.Squid vs OctopusIt’s all there for a reason, and everything works in harmony to make a pretty solid shooter from a company that prefers to dabble in plumbers and princesses. But if you lie down with dogs, you’ll wake up with fleas – and the online shooter genre can be a mangy cur at times. Splatoon suffers from some fairly irritating teething problems, the sorts of things genre veterans like Call of Duty and Halo nailed down years ago.Sometimes the lobby waits between matches can be interminably long, and you can’t get out once you’re committed. Also, the skill weighting makes it difficult for new (and not very good) players to reach the ranks of the rest – gaining XP is based on how well you perform in a match, so if you’re in a side with higher-ranking players who pack better weapons and kit, you’ll struggle. Furthermore, a shortage of maps makes matches dull and repetitive after a while, not to mention difficult because of all the smart-arses who have them memorised. Most annoyingly, it won’t be possible to play in private parties or join games as a team until a patch in August; and though the choice not to add in voice-chat is an understandable one for a company so focused on the younger demographic, it makes clever co-op a near impossibility.But there’s still plenty to love. The entire concept of a shooter where painting the map purple is more important than taking out enemies is all at once sweet, clever and funny, and if the online shooter elements fill you with game rage, you can always decompress with the puzzle-filled solo story mode, which pits you against some shady sealife in a few rather more exciting maps than the co-op fare. The game’s aesthetic is gorgeous, well-designed and fresh, and the funky music, sung entirely in squid-squeaks, is catchy to the point where you may find yourself ostracised at work or on public transport because you’re making weird yet tuneful squid noises to the music in your head.Once a landscape is covered in your own colour, you can swim through it quickly and almost invisibly. Characters can be customised with power-ups that let them swim or refill their ink canister fasterRelated:Game on: after Marvel’s Avengers, Nintendo’s stars could be next to hit the big screenIt would be short-sighted to criticise the first game in a long time that’s really attempted to revitalise and reinvent a genre that often seems stagnant. This sort of daring creative venture will have its flaws, and if anything, we should be glad that it’s Nintendo taking the first step into new territory. Splatoon is unlike anything we’ve seen – a kaleidoscopic combo of Doom, Jet Set Radio and cult Wii painting game de Blob. Alongside the likes of Bayonetta 2, Mario Kart 8 and Super Smash Bros it gives the Wii U console significant clout in areas of the gaming spectrum now dominated by Microsoft and Sony machines.On its own, Splatoon is a lovely, exciting and most importantly, different shooter. Is it the perfect shooter for people who don’t like shooters that some were hoping for? Not quite. People who are terrible at Call of Duty will probably still be terrible at this game – and for those players, the experience occasionally suffers as a result. But it would be ridiculous to miss out on this just because you can’t fire straight to save your life.Splatoon is a breath of fresh air – or more accurately “splodge of fresh ink” – for those who like to shoot stuff, but have grown tired of the endless bloody churn of gritty, realistic shooters. It is the coolest game on the market.Nintendo; Wii U; £30; Pegi rating: 7+
Can you please tell me how to go about obtaining the free Windows 10 for my laptop, which is currently operating on Windows 8.0?EricEveryone running Windows 7 or Windows 8 should get an invitation to install a free copy of Windows 10. For those running updated versions of Windows 7 SP1 or Windows 8.1 S14, this will be much the same as the offer to upgrade from Windows 8.0 to Windows 8.1. In other words, Windows Update will download the code in the background, and you will merely have to accept the offer to install it. The only limitation is that you have to install it within a year of Windows 10’s release.If you want to make sure you get the offer, install Windows update KB3035583. This update was recommended for Windows 8 users and was optional for Windows 7 users.If you are running Windows 7, Windows 8.0 or Windows 8.1 RTM (ie the released version, without the spring update), then you will not be able to upgrade using Windows Update. You can either update your operating system before you upgrade, or download the Windows 10 upgrade manually and create your own installation DVD using theWindows Disc Image Burner.If you are running Windows XP or Vista, then you will be able to buy a Windows 10 upgrade: watch out for Microsoft’s usual pre-orders and special offers.If you decide you don’t like Windows 10 for some reason, you will be able to revert to your earlier operating system.Windows upgrade matrix, based on a slide shown by Microsoft’s Ming-che Julius Ho at WinHEC Shenzen 2015 in China.Photograph: MicrosoftTime mattersThe free upgrade is for a limited period, so what happens when I have to re-install Windows 10 (PC slow, corrupt etc)? If it’s now 18 months or two years down the line, is it now chargeable? Will there be a downloadable version I can keep to re-install?NigelI expect that the Windows 10 upgrade will be downloadable and will come with its own product key: this is how the current trial version of Windows 10 works. (The product key is on theWindows 10 Insider Preview ISOpage.) If you have a product key then you can re-install Windows 10 in any way you want.I also expect that Windows 10 will include the option to create your own restore DVDs. However, you might want to create these by downloading the Windows 10 upgrade from Microsoft’s website, instead of letting Windows Update do the upgrade. (Windows Update will, at some point, delete its download to save disk space.)Once you have Windows 10 installed, it would be sensible to create restore discs, if that’s possible, or to take a drive image that you can use to restore your PC. Perhaps physical backups are not strictly necessary, but even if we never need them, they make some of us feel more secure.Will Windows 10 expire?I read somewhere that the free upgrade to Windows 10 will expire after one year and that the user will then have to pay for the upgrade. Is this so?AlasdairNo, that’s completely wrong. Once you have installed Windows 10 and made a note of your product key, it’s yours forever. Well, you can use it until Microsoft stops supporting it, which is usually 10 years.Upgrading an upgradeI am running Windows 8.1 on a desktop PC upgraded from Windows XP via the $40 download offer. I would like to clean up my PC by installing a new hard drive and doing a new install of Windows 10. Can I get the media without paying extra for it or is there another way to accomplish this?JimYour $40 upgrade from Windows XP to 8.1 means that Windows Update will install Windows 10 free, or you will be able to download the upgrade separately, as explained above. You should then be able to do a clean installation on a new hard drive. The methods for marking a Windows PC as “genuine” have changed a lot since XP, but whether Windows 10 will still want to “sniff” an XP disc or make you enter your 8.1 product key remains to be seen. One would hope not, but when it comes to licensing, Microsoft isn’t always good at handling edge cases.Can I upgrade my OEM copy?I’m currently running an OEM [original equipment manufacturer] copy of Windows 7 Ultimate 64-bit. Would this be eligible for an upgrade to Windows 10 too?AndrewIn theory, yes, but Microsoft has not said what it plans to do about OEM versions that were intended for small PC makers but have been purchased by consumers. It seems that most people would like their OEM version upgraded to a retail version of Windows 10, as explained onMicrosoft’s User Voice website(a sort of suggestion box). This may not happen.Microsoft hasn’t announced an Ultimate version of Windows 10, so you probably won’t get the usual like-for-like upgrade. However, Windows 10 Pro would presumably be acceptable.When can I get Windows 10?When will Windows 10 be available?AbhishekWe don’t know: Microsoft has not announced a release date beyond a vague “this summer”. A few million people are now using preview versions of Windows 10, and it’s clear that it’s not yet ready for release. Bearing in mind that Microsoft will be launching Windows 10 in 111 languages in 190 countries across a wide range of devices – phones, tablets, PCs etc – then I wouldn’t expect everything to appear at once.Late August might be a good bet for online upgrades to Windows 10 PCs, though it might be earlier or later, depending on what Microsoft includes and how many show-stopping bugs testers find in the code.However, Windows 10 will be continuously updated, so there will no longer be a major distinction between updates (patches and fixes with KB numbers) and upgrades (features provided by installing new program code). Microsoft could therefore choose to ship a slightly incomplete Windows 10 and upgrade it via Windows Update.It’s even harder to guess when Windows 10 might appear pre-installed on PCs in shops, but it could be another couple of months. Some suppliers might target the back-to-school market, but most if not all should have it for the Christmas shopping season. Microsoft will not want to miss that.Have you got a question?Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
It’s Thursday!
Dr Jonathan Waldern is standing in a meeting room in Silicon Valley, wearing a lab coat and grinning from ear to ear. “There will be people crying in this, people falling in love, people falling over. For all sorts of reasons, this strikes at the core of being a human being. It’s so compelling … this is as big an opportunity as the internet.”He’s talking about virtual reality (VR), the immersive systems that cover your eyes (and ideally ears) and fool your brain into thinking you’re somewhere, or even someone, else. Waldern, 54, is a veteran of the business: in the 90s, his company Virtuality was a pioneer in commercial VR, offering an arcade game experience in which a bulky headset transformed the room into a prehistoric scene in which pterodactyls swooped over and around you, and you tried to shoot them with your gun.The last time I saw Waldern was in the UK, more than 20 years ago. Virtuality, which he had brought to the London stock market, was in talks with Atari to bring its ambitious Jaguar headset to consumers. But the deal fell apart, and then so did Virtuality. The market for VR shrank to zero almost overnight; its speed and completeness foreshadowed the dot-com boom and bust of 2000-2001.But, just as the dot-coms evolved and returned like mammals emerging from a meteor strike, VR has come back too. And that’s what Waldern, who now runs a Silicon Valley company called Digilens, is excited about. He sees the field enjoying a resurgence, its long hibernation is over. And survivors like him are emerging to capitalise on the new boom.Oculus Rift Development Kit 2 at the Consumer Electronics Show, Shanghai.Photograph: STR/AFP/Getty Images“It’s a very small community [in VR] around here,” Waldern continues, referring to the west coast. (Though it transpires that when he says “small”, he means “in the thousands, but geographically close”.) “The cost of development in this realm is so high that very few corporations would take it on. Only the big three – Microsoft, Google, Facebook. Apple is the fourth, but isn’t so prominent.”Does that mean Apple is looking at VR too? “I couldn’t possibly comment,” says Waldern, and grins. (Applefiled a patent in September 2008for putting an iPhone into a headset, andanother in 2014, but there’s been little other sign of activity on that front from the company.)Even if it isn’t, the presence of the other three big companies in this space shows how hot VR has suddenly become. Oculus Rift,bought by Facebook for $2bnin March 2014, has been the poster child for the new face of this technology; the company nowaims to launch a headset for consumers in 2016. It will have challengers though. Sony is working on Project Morpheus, whichhas the same aim, and HTC has builtVive, unveiled at Mobile World Congress in March, which will work with the Valve system for downloadable games. Samsung has its own Gear VR, developed with Oculus. Even Google’s Cardboard, a DIY system which you literally fold together from a cardboard template before sticking your smartphone into a slot a few inches from your eyes, has had around 1.2m downloads since Google introduced it at its I/O developer conference in May 2014.Meanwhile the parallel development of “augmented reality” (where objects and data are overlaid on to the scene you see in front of you) is growing quickly, too, with Microsoft’s Hololens the most promising offering to date, along with Google-funded Magic Leap. (Google Glass, which is undergoing a rethink, is like a subset of AR.)But it’s VR that has everyone excited. In March 2014, Chris Dixon, a partner at the increasingly influential venture capital company Andreessen Horowitz,observedthat using an early version of Oculus Rift the year before was one of “a handful of technology demos in my life that made me feel like I was glimpsing into the future” – and his list ran back as far as the Apple II computer from the 70s.VR, he noted, “has long been a staple of science fiction” (of which Star Trek: the Next Generation’s “holodeck” was only the most recent) but hardware was now cheap enough, and engineers keen enough to explore a new frontier, that it could finally deliver on the science fiction promise. (Dixon’s team cashed out on Facebook’s acquisition of Oculus Rift.)Virtuality promo filmIn the 90s, VR certainly felt like SF. Waldern’s company relied on top-end Silicon Graphics systems with six-figure price tags. There’s avideo of him from 1994at W Industries, showing how pixellated the experience was. “Our system used some of the very first Sony LCDs, with 300 by 200 pixels,” Waldern recalls. “Today you get 1,080p [1,080 horizontal lines] minimum, and by the launch next year you’ll probably have 4K by 4K. And the computational power is transformational – we were working on about a megaflop, and each machine cost about $70,000, which is a massive barrier to adoption. Now with an Nvidia GPU you’re talking about a teraflop.”VR is a complex real-time computing problem. Ideally, the fictional scene should show no individual pixels, fill your field of view – which in normally sighted people covers 180 degrees – and change without any lag, no matter how quickly you move your head. That means the system has to be able to calculate what the scene will look like at any point, and incorporate the movement of your head, reported from the helmet, into its computation, and update the screens quickly enough to give the sensation of realistic movement.Measurement of head movement is done using accelerometers and gyroscopes; the screens can now offer millions of pixels just inches from your eyes; computing power aims to cut lag and latency. The latter can quickly induce nausea if the scene isn’t redrawn quickly enough as the body’s balance system disagrees with what the eyes tell it they’re seeing; that was a key problem with early VR systems.But those are being overcome, thanks to the rapid growth of the smartphone industry. That has made accelerometers and gyroscopic chips cheap, plentiful and fast, while also pushing the quality of displays to a level where you can’t distinguish pixels even in screens a few inches from your eyes. That though requires graphics processors that can handle huge numbers of floating point operations per second (flops) – but, as Waldern says, that’s available.Among those eagerly exploiting that space is Professor Bob Stone, chair of interactive multimedia systems at the University of Birmingham, and another British veteran of the 1990s boom and bust. After another 20-year gap, I caught up with him as he travelled from a location where he had been using a drone to create a 3D “point cloud” of a church and archaeological dig in Wiltshire; in just five minutes of flight it captured enough data to create a realistic 3D model that one could “fly” through at leisure.Image, ‘point cloud’ and reconstructed image captured by drone for virtual reality overview of archaeological dig by Prof Bob Stone.Photograph: DropboxWhen we spoke, Stone initially seemed unimpressed by Oculus’s offering, suggesting that “it’s not much different from the headsets of the late 1990s”. He cited “pixel bleed” (where the pixels don’t appear sharp) and limits on the field of view. “We’re using Oculus Rift development kit 2 [the latest version] in defence projects, because it’s the best of a bad bunch,” he said. Why bad? Stone feels that if you have to wear something, “you aren’t really experiencing total immersion”; he thinks ideally VR should simply feel like life. “More than 20 years on, shouldn’t we be further ahead than this?” he asks.But later he emails, relenting on his apparent negativity: “VR has been my career for over 28 years now, and I genuinely believe in what VR can deliver when the technologies are applied appropriately and with the needs of the end users and end organisations well and truly in mind. As I said, it seems that every seven years we see the same old issues and hype coming through (these days via the web, YouTube, etc) that people out there seem to believe without question!”The original bust in VR came when first-generation products were crushed by the weight of expectations. So what led to the renaissance of VR – and why has it taken so long?Waldern reckons a key reason is that games, which were the main consumer-facing use for VR, shifted to a different set of genres. “There are periodic cycles in the games industry, for technologies and genres. People want change from time to time.” After a couple of decades of 2D and pseudo-3D offerings (think of Nintendo’s games, and Quake and Doom), gamers are ready for an “immersive” experience, he argues.Digilens’s work involves building optical waveguides, so that projected images can fill or overlay the field of vision. Most of the uses on the company site involve business, rather than consumer, application, but Waldern sees all sorts of potential. “Why do you think Microsoft bought Minecraft?” he asks. “Hololens is perfect for it.”Related:Touchy subject: a breakthrough for gaming and virtual realityStone agrees: “One thing that saved VR was that while we were running around talking about headsets and gloves, the gaming community was coming up underneath, and came up with software and hardware in the quest for the best quality games. That drove down the cost of computing with graphics, and also made available a number of toolkits for games-quality virtual worlds that people could sympathise with.” Games drove costs down: “Things that in the late 1990s cost six-figure sums you can now do on an £800 laptop.”Brian Blau, research director at analysis company Gartner, forecast in March – before Oculus’s announcement of a tentative release date – that there would be 2m VR headsets sold in 2016, rising to 8m in 2018; in all he thinks there could be 25m in use within a few years.That doesn’t sound quite like the gigantic opportunity that Waldern described. But VR is seeing a growing number of uses in commercial spaces, where the ability to train people, or give them a new perspective, is valuable.Related:Virtual reality offers NBA and NFL fans a more immersive experienceBut it’s not the military, or even games, which might be the most effective users of VR. One can imagine scores of scenarios where it would be transformative. Planning your next holiday? Why not “visit” the alternatives first, via a headset? Games, exploration, psychiatry and many other fields could all be revolutionised. “Sex, of course,” says Stone. “We’ve seen some crazy devices coming out of Japan.” He points to healthcare, education and training as other fields that are most likely to take it up quickly.Facebook’s purchase of Oculus, though, suggests that it sees the capability to transform how we interact with friends – which is what Waldern is thinking of when he talks about it potentially being bigger than the internet.“Even back at the start, the biggest kick we got was when we used ISDN lines between Berlin and London, and we linked players up in a game. It was amazing: you could meet, play, talk with people. Now, games have been doing that virtually for a while. But when you can feel you’re really meeting someone, right there, as a jolly alien or Robin Hood …” He stretches for the words. “Immersivity is the main thing. This has many years to run, and we have to get to where we are totally convinced – but we’re looking at something which has transformational capability for society.”
Pebble Time is the latest smartwatch crowdfunding success story, having broken records by hitting$2m in 58 minutesand ultimately raisingmore than $20m. But is the watch that works with both Android and iPhone – making it a direct Apple Watch competitor – worth the hype?This is the second time on the merry-go-round for Pebble. Its first cross-platform smartwatch, simply called the Pebble, broke Kickstarter records in 2012 and reignited the smartwatch industry.Two models on and, after 1m units sold, the Time is a more modern smartwatch that concentrates on doing a few things very well and doesn’t try to do too much.The Pebble Time, unlike most smartwatches, can be used with either the iPhone or Android. For this review we will concentrate on its use with an iPhone. A later review will look at the differences working with Android.Wearing itThe Time is quite small and subtle for a smartwatch, with a stainless steel bezel and plastic body, here with an optional leather strap.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianCompared to the many other smartwatches available, including the original Pebble and Pebble Steel, I was struck by just how small the Time was on the wrist.It’s just 9.5mm thick, curved to the wrist, and uses a standard, user-replaceable 22mm-wide watch strap. The Time ships with a comfortable silicon rubber strap. The case is 40.5mm by 37.5mm – 47mm including the lugs – which makes it about the size of a small Casio and slightly thinner and smaller than the 42mm Apple Watch.The Time is also waterproof, not just splash-resistant. It can survive trips to 50m deep, although its microphone can only survive to 30m. Basically, it will survive pretty much anything, including swimming.The 1.25in screen is a new type of always-on, coloure-paperdisplay. Like e-ink displays on Kindles and other e-readers, it can be read easily in direct light, but also has a backlight activated by movement, or a button should you need to read the watch in the dark.Unlike the previous Pebbles, the screen can handle smooth animations and while it doesn’t look as slick or as brilliant as the LCD or OLED screens used on other smartwatches, it is on all the time and doesn’t kill the battery.I was very impressed by just how far the e-paper technology has come. It is a big step forward over the previous black-and-white Pebble smartwatches.Pairing itThe pairing and setup process takes a couple of minutes.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Pebble connects to an iPhone via Bluetooth, needing the Pebble iOS app to make things work.The app controls settings guide users through the connection process – including asking permission to access location, notifications and calendar information.Pairing is simple – just turn on Bluetooth on the iPhone, access the app and select the Pebble. Accept the pairing request and follow the screen prompts. The whole process took less than two minutes.Controlling itButtons make scrolling through lists and notifications easy.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Pebble Time doesn’t have a touchscreen, instead relying on four buttons on the sides: the button on the left side acts like a back button, the right side has an action button and two buttons for scrolling up and down.Scrolling up or down from the watchface browses through your calendar entries, up for back through the last day’s entries and down to scroll through the next two days.From the watch face, the up and down buttons can also be used to launch one app or screen when held for a second, such as a list of notifications, the Misfit app or music controls.There’s no keyboard on the Pebble, and while it has a microphone, it currently doesn’t support voice replies when connected to an iPhone. (It does on Android, but I will discuss that in a later review.) Pebble hopes this to change in the near future.Notifications and musicNotifications are easy to access, scroll through and clear.Notifications are a smartwatch’s bread and butter. The Time takes a simple, effective approach to notifications – anything that has been allowed to show you a notification on the iPhone is sent to the watch.The watch vibrates and displays each notification as it comes in, displaying a small snippet of emails, texts, tweets and other alerts. The last notification stays on screen until it is dismissed, which takes two taps of the central button.All currently pending notifications can be seen in a list through the notification menu option, and dismissed en masse, although dismissing a notification on the Pebble does not dismiss it from the iPhone.Music controls display album art, adjust the volume, skip tracks and pause and play.Beyond notifications, music controls are thekey reason to owna smartwatch. Pebble’s universal music remote shows what’s currently playing on the phone, can change the volume, pause, play and skip tracks. It’s fast, effective and works great with the iOS Music app, Spotify, Google Play Music and most others.AppsWith more than 6,500 user and developer created apps, there’s an app for almost anything.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPebble also has more than 6,500 apps in its app store, typically focused on doing one thing well. Highlights include Misfit and Up for health and fitness monitoring, including sleep tracking; Runkeeper and Runtastic for tracking runs; Evernote; some transport and train times apps; Foursquare’s Swarm; and internet of things apps such as Leaf, which is used to control a Nest thermostat – the list is long.Many of these apps are made by hobbiests and are clean, simple and free. When needed, some have companion apps on the phone – and all of them are available through the Pebble app on the smartphone.There are an equal number of watchfaces to choose from too. Many of them have added functionality beyond telling the time, including showing the weather, fitness tracking, and the status of IoT devices. There’s pretty much a watchface for anything you want to do.I haven’t found many that I find aesthetically pleasing, but that is likely to change now the colour e-paper screen allows for more creative uses over the old e-ink screens on the original Pebble.There are a wealth of watchfaces available for free in the Pebble store, which is worth browsing through to try and find one to fit your personal style.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianBattery life and chargingMost smartwatches rarely last more than a day, with the exceptions being theSony Smartwatch 3, which lasted three days in my testing. The Pebble lasts much longer.Even with heavy use, with hundreds of notifications, sleep tracking and lots of prodding and playing, the Time lasted 72 hours on a single charge.Without wearing it overnight, that’s around five working days, and likely much longer if you’re not using it constantly.Once the battery drops below 5%, it switches to a basic, time-only mode and lasted for about a day in that state. A full charge took two hours using a magnetic USB charging cable, which is long enough to stretch to a bed-side table.The Time’s impact on the battery life of the iPhone 6 Plus it was used with was negligible in my testing. The iPhone’s battery usage monitor said the Pebble Time app consumed just 4% of the battery, compared to Safari’s 19% and the home and lockscreen’s 16%.The magnetic charging cable attaches to the back of the watch, but isn’t very strong, meaning it can be detached quite easily.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe Pebble Time is available in black, white and red, costing $199 (£130) – a stainless-steel version will cost more at a later date. For a comparison, the Apple Watch costs £300 and up, while Android Wear watches cost from £100 and up.VerdictThe Pebble Time is like the Casio of smartwatches: simple and easy to use, it does a couple of things very well, without trying to do everything.The battery life is fantastic. The always-on screen is clear and easy to read. Its music controls are excellent and its app ecosystem rich.The Time is the best watch available for the iPhone for simply getting notifications with the minimum of fuss while still telling the time, which is what smartwatches were born to do.It’s also one of the most discreet smartwatches available – small, with muted styling that goes unnoticed, again like a Casio. That won’t be for everyone, but having standard straps means it’s easy to customise, and costing $199 won’t break the bank doing so.The Pebble is 9.5mm thick, but is slightly curved to fit comfortably on the wrist.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPros:Long battery life, always-on screen readable in direct light or in the dark, lightweight, waterproof to 30m, simple to use, great music controls.Cons:No way to reply to messages, screen is smaller and doesn’t look as good as some, ties into iOS not as good as Apple Watch.Other reviews•Which was the best smartwatch of 2014?•Apple Watch review: beautiful hardware spoiled by complicated software•Motorola Moto 360 review: beautiful smartwatch spoiled by poor battery life•LG G Watch R review: chunky, masculine, and fast•Asus ZenWatch review: a sophisticated-looking Android smartwatch
#interesting? #greatnews? #aaaaaaaargh? Regardless of your opinion, there is no getting away from the ubiquity of hashtag – today named children’s word of the year.An annual analysis ofRadio 2’s 500 Words short story competitionreveals the huge increase in the creative use of the word among the under-13s, with hashtag moving from being a Twitter search term to a device for adding comment and emphasis in stories.Oxford University Pressanalysed 120,421 entries to the competition to unearth insights into the lives of British children and the ways they use English.There is much to be cheered by, said Vineeta Gupta, head of children’s dictionaries at OUP. “The research has shown that children are true innovators and that they are using more vocabulary, not less.”Hashtag, or #, is word of the year because it is entering children’s vocabulary in a new way, Gupta said. “Children are not tweeting and using Twitter, but they are using the word hashtag and the symbol # for dramatic effect, it is heightening tension.”A child might write: ‘This is a wonderful day, #sunny,’ for example, or: ‘I have the best family, #fantasticfamily.’Social media and mobile technology are the predominant themes of 2015, demonstrated by some of the top 20 words to see a significant rise in use over the past 12 months – zoella, selfie, blog, YouTube and youtuber. On the way out are MP3, Playstation, iPod, Nintendo, Blackberry and even TV, down 10%.Gupta said she was most surprised by “by the maturity in which children are embracing current affairs”.So the Ebola crisis, in particular, features prominently – with children using it both literally and as a simile.Related:Vape is the new selfie: what the 2014 word of the year says about our timesThe first world war features heavily, with U-boats, the Eastern front, Tommies, shrapnel and mustard gas all featuring in stories. The Suffragette movement is also a popular theme, though only for girls.Another trend is for children to use more hyperbolic words. So instead of big, great and fantastic, there might be colossal, magnificent or delightful.The 500 Words competition, part of the Chris Evans Breakfast Show, was launched in 2011 and has seen a big – or should that be ginormous – rise in entries. This year there were 120,421 compared to 74,075 in 2012.It provides a rich vein for lexicographers at OUP to mine and helps inform what appears in its dictionaries.Evans said the research showed “just how incredibly creative children can be”. He added: “They are so often at the forefront of both adopting, and adapting to, new language trends and using them in all manner of inventive ways.“It’s clear that storytelling remains a hugely important part of child’s life and that we as parents should do whatever we can to help them enjoy the worlds they create on paper.”While the OUP research identified lots of change, it also showed that some things do not change, particularly when it comes to gender. The analysis shows girls will write enthusiastically about cupcakes, unicorns and marshmallows. Boys are more excited about burgers, space, cars and farting.
Intelligent robots that can adapt to injury, or even become more powerful under attack, are a mainstay of science fiction. Now scientists have developed the real-life version: robots that can “adapt like animals” to injuries and recover within minutes.The ability for robots to cope with unforeseen challenges is seen as a crucial step towards the widespread use of smart machines everywhere from the home to the battlefield, but until now scientists have struggled to develop machines that work alone without human intervention.Jeff Clune, a computer scientist at the University of Wyoming, said: “Everything we take for granted works so well because nature’s worked at it for so long. If we get a splinter in our heel, we just start walking on our tiptoes, we don’t even think about how we’re doing it.”Clune and his colleagues have managed to reproduce this “animal-like” ability to adapt to injury in a six-legged walking robot and a mechanical arm designed to pick up objects.Videos recorded by the researchers show the six-legged robot initially flailing helplessly like a squashed spider after the power is cut to one of its legs. But after trying out a variety of alternative strategies, within two minutes it has adopted an entirely new gait – something akin to a pounce – allowing it to proceed towards a target despite being damaged.Crucially, the robots adapt through an “intelligent trial and error” strategy that allows them to cope with new challenges independently, rather than being pre-programmed to deal with every imaginable obstacle. This meant that the robots frequently surprised their makers with the solutions they came up with and in some cases their performance even improved following the damage, due to new strategies they devised.“It definitely can produce unpredictable results,” said Clune. “In one of our examples, once the robot lost one of its legs it discovered a new, even faster way to walk.”In another instance, the scientists challenged the robot to walk without any of its feet touching the ground – a command they assumed it would fail at. “It flipped over on its back and walked with its elbows,” Clune said. “It can be very creative.”Similarly, the mechanical arm quickly learned to cope with several of its motors being switched off.The idea of an adaptable robot with the potential to become more powerful over time may have echoes of a sinister science fiction plot. In Star Trek, the Borg collective of robots, declares: “Your biological and technological distinctiveness will be added to our own. Resistance is futile.”But in reality, Clune says, scientists are still trying to overcome the basics of developing robots that can walk on uneven terrain in unknown weather conditions or handle delicate objects.“The things that are easiest for humans are the hardest for robots,” he said. “That’s one of the startling things for AI research.”The study, published in the journalNature, describes the new algorithms that underpin the advance, which are seen as a departure from previous approaches. Before the robot is deployed, it uses a computer simulation of its own body to create a detailed map of the types of movements it can make – something the researchers describe as the robot’s “simulated childhood”.“If you watch children play, they work out how their body works by moving in all different ways,” said Clune. “This means when we’re damaged we have intuitions about different ways to move.”Similarly, once the robot is damaged, it falls back on its map of behaviours that it can perform and uses this to guide a series of rapid experiments into new ways that it can move.Antoine Cully, of the Pierre and Marie Curie University in France and the lead author, said: “Once damaged, the robot becomes like a scientist. Each behaviour it tries is like an experiment and, if one behaviour doesn’t work, the robot is smart enough to rule out that entire type of behaviour and try a new type.”
In the space of just five years, tablets have become a must-have device, with more than half of UK households and one in 10 three to four-year-olds owning one.Since the debut of Apple’s iPad in 2010, and the subsequent arrival of rival products such as Amazon Fire, the Samsung Galaxy Tab and Google Nexus, there has been an explosion in the popularity of tablets, which are shaping the way people use the internet and watch TV and films.The proportion of UK households that have one has risen from just 2% in 2011 to 54% this year, according to a report by UK media regulator Ofcom.Tablets have proven most popular among people aged 34 to 54, with nearly two-thirds of this age group owning one, up from just 2% in 2011.Sixty percent of 16 to 34-year-olds with own or have access to one, up from 2% in 2011.Tablets are also increasingly popular with parents trying to keep their children entertained, as 11% of three to four-year-olds have one of their own.One in three children aged between 5 and 15 years old also have their own device, up from 19% just two years ago, while overall 71% of this age group at least have access to a tablet at home.Despite the popularity of tablets among this age group it is laptops that remain the most popular device children use to go online.An interesting trend has been the rise of tablets among those aged over 55, a generation not traditionally considered to be particularly keen on new technology, from 1% ownership in 2011 to 37% in 2015.“The 50+ age group invented most of the cool stuff we use today,” said Stefano Hatfield, chief executive of online community High50. “How old is Bill Gates, Tim Berners-Lee and Tim Cook? How old would Steve Jobs have been? Not only are we using them for reading digital newspapers and books, but also to binge-watch TV series, graze YouTube, stay in touch with family and friends over Skype and stay connected on Facebook.”Tablets remain popular for that lean-back experience at home, where 37% of people use them to go online, and almost 60% of those doing so watching video clips.More than a third use tablets to catch up with their favourite TV shows and films on services such as the BBC’s iPlayer and the ITV player.Outside the home the mobile phone remains the most popular device for browsing the internet. More than half of adults regularly use one to do so.This compares to just 15% of tablet owners who use theirs to surf the internet when they are on the move.“In just five years, tablets have become a must-have device for millions of UK households,” said Kate Reeve, director of consumer research at Ofcom. “We’re using them to catch up with the news, watch our favourite soaps and keep the kids entertained.”Tablets are also helping to drive the use of apps, with 86% of those who go online using them.News apps have proved to be very popular, with almost half (48%) of all users getting their news headlines from one, compared to 37% who use a web browser.The rise of the tablet shows no sign of slowing down, yet with 21% of the households that are currently tablet-free saying they were likely to buy one within the next year.Ofcom is projecting that 63% of UK homes will have a tablet by the end of 2016, including 74% of 16 to 34-year-olds, the same proportion of 35 to 54-year-olds, and 44% of those over the age of 55.Meanwhile, Apple has toppled Google to be named the world’s most powerful brand, according to a survey.The huge popularity of the iPhone 6 and the launch of the Apple Watch helped fuel a 67% increase in the company’s estimated brand value to $247m.Google saw its brand value increase 9% to $173m, but it was not enough to hold Apple at bay, according to the annual Brandz survey carried out by WPP-owned research firm Millward Brown.
A bug in Apple’s iOS means that anyone can crash an iPhone by simply sending it a certain string of characters in a message.The bug – discovered byseveralRedditusers– means that when the message is received it instantly crashes the iPhone and causes it to reboot, as long as the recipient is not viewing their message history at the time.The attack appears to be caused by a glitch in the way Apple’s iOS mobile operating system, which runs on the iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, renders Arabic text.When the text message is displayed by a banner alert or notification on the lockscreen, the system attempts to abbreviate the text with an ellipsis. If the ellipsis is placed in the middle of a set of non-Latin script characters, including Arabic,Marathiand Chinese, it causes the system to crash and the phone to reboot.The bug requires a very specific string of text to be sent within an iMessage or SMS. In attempting to confirm the bug, the Guardian went through 50 variations of the text string before replicating the crash.A video showing the crash in action.The text string is very specific and is therefore highly unlikely to be replicated by accident. Those worried about being attacked can protect their iPhone from the bug by disabling notification banners. Getting notifications on an Apple Watch also protects the iPhone from the bug.Some users falling victim to the attack have reported that they can no longer access messages.Others have reported that sending a photo to the contact via the Photos app can allow them to access the message history and delete the conversation, clearing the source of the crash.The bug is being used as a prank, with users taking to Twitter to vent their frustration after crashes. As with any glitch like this, it is that possible hackers could turn the bug into a method of attack beyond simple pranks.This is not the first bug causing similar issues on Apple devices, including apps on Macs, to be exposed.Bugs within third-party apps have also caused similar problems for iPhone users,including Snapchat, which allowed attackers to flood devices with information causing them to crash.“We are aware of an iMessage issue caused by a specific series of unicode characters and we will make a fix available in a software update,” said an Apple spokesman.•Apple finally fixes iMessage bug•Wi-Fi hack creates ‘no iOS zone’ that cripples iPhones and iPads
A virtual reality company founded by three PhD students at Imperial College London has been bought by Facebook to combine with Oculus.Surreal Visionspecialises in real-time 3D scene reconstruction to create accurate representations of the real world and allow users to interact with real-world objects from within VR.The company was founded by Richard Newcombe, Renato Salas-Moreno and Steven Lovegrove.The technology being developed by Surreal Vision will lead to VR and augmented reality systems that can be used day or night and either indoors or outdoors. “They will open the door to true telepresence, where people can visit anyone, anywhere,” the founders said.Their techniques promise a model of reality that “feels real, creating a new, mixed reality that brings together the virtual and real worlds”.The founders say that significant challenges remain, as the accuracy and quality of the continuously updating 3D reconstruction must be almost perfect: “When we cross these seminal thresholds, users will perceive the virtual world as truly real – and that is the experience we’re driving toward.”Newcombe, Salas-Moreno and Lovegrove will join the Oculus Research team in Redmond, Washington.Facebook bought Oculus VRfor $2bn in March 2014 after the company had built a solid following among game developers. The social network said it recognised that VR would have far wider applications in fields ranging from communications and entertainment to education and media.Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg said at the time: “Mobile is the platform of today, and now we’re also getting ready for the platforms of tomorrow. Oculus has the chance to create the most social platform ever, and change the way we work, play and communicate.”Facebook chief executive Mark ZuckerbergPhotograph: Kristoffer Tripplaar/REXOculus was founded by 21-year-old college drop-out Palmer Luckey and made headlines in 2012 when the company raised more than $2m on the crowdfunding site Kickstarter to manufacture the Oculus Rift VR headset.The first commercial model of Facebook’s much anticipated Oculus Rift virtual reality headset willgo on sale in the first quarter of 2016, the company said earlier this month. Prices are yet to be announced.Oculus VR’s technology is already available in the Gear VR, a smartphone-powered headset launched by Samsung and Oculus. Meanwhile, games firmValve is making a VR headset with HTC called the Vive VR, which will launch later this year.Sony also plans to launch its Morpheus VR headset for PlayStation 4in the first half of next year, having recently shown off a prototype that is close to a final consumer version.
Snapchat’s chief executive has confirmed that he plans to take the company public rather than sell it to a larger firm.“We need to IPO,” Evan Spiegel, 24, told the Code conference in California, referring to the launch of an initial public offering. “We have a plan to do that.”Spiegel claims almost 100 million people a day use the video-messaging app, and its latest funding round valued it at a sky-high $15bn (£10bn) – five times as much as the $3bn Spiegel turned down in 2013 when Facebook tried to buy it. And its valuation could rise as high as $19bn,according to recent reports.However, Spiegel did not reveal any detail about its IPO plans and shot down questions about Snapchat’s future.He did admit that the existence of a tech bubble is something that is included in the company’s plans.“People are making riskier investments,” Spiegel said. “I think there will be a correction. As for when, we don’t know, but we factor that into our plans. If I knew exactly when, I could make a lot of money.”It is the first time Spiegel has said publicly what he had previously communicated privately:that the tech industry is overdue a correction.“At some point there won’t be any momentum investors left buying at higher prices, and the market begins to tumble,” he wrote in emails in 2013 that were obtained by the Wall Street Journal last year. “May be 10-20% correction or something more significant, especially in tech stocks.”Facebook shareshave risen almost 30% in the past 12 months to just under $80, whileApple stockis almost 50% higher at close to $130.
Sorry everyone! I went on holiday and forgot to set up Chatterbox! Is anyone still alive?
The average Briton uses 150 litres of water a day; the average American gets through 570 litres of the stuff. The world is getting thirstier and the global demand for fresh water is rising by 640bn litres a year.Population growth is one factor, not only the need for drinking water and sanitation but also the need to produce more food. Agriculture accounts for 70% of water use.Even the push for biofuels to reduce consumption of fossil fuels has an unexpected consequence: between 1,000 and 4,000 litres of water are needed to produce just one litre of biofuel.While reducing consumption is one way of helping to address the water crisis on an individual level, it is far from the complete solution. Something on a larger scale is also needed: desalination.As climate change makes rainfall less predictable and droughts more common, a growing number of countries are turning to desalination. The term is used to refer to removing salt from both seawater and subterranean “brackish” water, as well as the treatment of waste water (aka sewerage) to make it drinkable.Some environmentalists have long opposed desalination because of the energy the process demands, as well as other considerations such as the impact of sucking in large quantities of seawater from the ocean.Huntington Lake in the High Sierra, California, has run dry following the four-year drought in the state.Photograph:  Lucy Nicholson/ReutersBut technological advances in recent years have altered the equation. The most common form of desalination isreverse osmosis; it involves forcing water through cartridges that contain thin-film composite polyamide membranes, which trap salt and other impurities but allow the fresh water through.Randy Truby, comptroller of theInternational Desalination Association, says that advances in manufacturing processes have allowed 450 sq ft of membrane to be crammed into each cartridge, compared with 300 sq ft when they first came on the market. But treating seawater still requires pressure of about 80 bar, 40 times more than car tyres. That is why treating seawater is more energy-intensive than brackish or waste water, which require less force.The location of a seawater desalination plant also makes a difference, Truby adds: while the salt content of water off the coast of California is about 34,000 parts per million, the figure in the Middle East is more like 40,000.No alternativeSaudi Arabia is the country that relies most on desalination – mostly of seawater. The US is in second place. It uses mainly brackish and waste water although later this year it will open one of the world’s largest seawater desalination plants inCarlsbad, San Diego.Truby says: “In many places there is no alternative – certainly the Middle East and places like Singapore, the Canary Islands and the Caribbean have to look to the sea. Those that have a choice, like Europe and the US, China, Japan, will try conservation and re-use and brackish treatment and use [seawater] desalination as a way to top-up and provide some drought-proofing.”The desalination plant in Carlsbad will use the reverse osmosis process to produce fresh water.Photograph: Gregory Bull/APDesalination remains about twice as expensive as treating rainwater or waste water, at about $3 (£1.95) per cubic metre, but the economics depend on a number of variables, explains Professor Raphael Semiat of Technion, the Israel Institute of Technology, in Haifa.He says 3.5 kilowatt hours (kWh) of electricity are needed to desalinate 1 cubic metre of seawater – 1.3kWh to pump seawater to the plant and 2.2kWh for the reverse osmosis process.Pumping a cubic metre of fresh water distances of more than 200km requires more energy than desalinating the same amount of seawater, according to Semiat. In addition, many plants produce the bulk of their water at night when there is less demand for electricity, and thus utilise power that would otherwise go to waste.Philip Davies, reader in mechanical engineering and design at Aston University in Birmingham, argues that desalination is not an expensive way of producing drinking water.He adds: “The trouble is most distribution systems don’t allow us to distinguish between drinking water or water used for sanitation. It’s also very difficult to put differential costing on water to reflect merits of its use, because at the end of the day you’ve got to make water affordable to everybody. There are much cheaper ways to economise on water than desalination … we should be re-using water for sanitation or irrigation.”Davies points out that reverse osmosis is not ideal for developing countries because the maintenance of the membranes required to keep them running effectively is more problematic in a country like India.Most desalination on the subcontinent is of brackish water that contains high levels of impurities, meaning the membranes can easily become clogged: “They are just filters and they get blocked up like anything else unless you have the right sort of pre-treatment.”The expense of operating a desalination plant is another issue in developing countries. While NGOs can provide seed funding, they are less able to cover running costs.One solution could be a micro-enterprise project Davies has been involved with near Jodhpur in India. As well as producing desalinated water, it generates incomes from farmers who pay to have their seeds pressed to produce castor oil, and provides refrigeration for ripening bananas.There is also a growing effort to reduce the environmental impact of desalinating brackish water. The salt recovery rate is typically about 50%, meaning that the waste salty brine is often injected back into the ground in places such as India and Pakistan.Saltwater greenhousesSuch a strategy is not sustainable because it increases the salinity of soil or rivers further downstream. Davies says increasing the amount of salt being removed to between 70% and 90% solves that problem, but requires more energy – although he has devised a system of solar power to keep usage to a minimum.Seawater greenhouse technology is well suited to arid parts of the world.Photograph: Seawater GreenhouseThe academic is also involved in a project in Somaliland, which faces the twin challenges of rapid population growth and limited water resources. It is one area using seawater greenhouses, which produce water for irrigation by pumping seawater into the greenhouse and piping it over honeycomb cardboard pads that provide a large area for evaporative cooling.According to Charlie Paton, who foundedSeawater Greenhouse Ltdtwo decades ago, a seawater greenhouse cools the air by up to 15 degrees and increases humidity to as much as 90% even in some of the world’s most arid places. Davies says they can reduce the amount of water needed to produce a kilogram of produce from hundreds to tens of litres.Researchers continue to seek to improve the technology behind reverse osmosis. Adel Sharif, professor of water engineering and process innovation at the University of Surrey, co-developed a new form of desalination calledmanipulated osmosisin 2003.Thames Water’s desalination plant at Beckton in east London can produce 150m litres of water a day.Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesHe says the technique helps to remove impurities such as limescale before the reverse osmosis process, which reduces the amount of energy needed by as much as 30%, as well as increasing the lifespan of the membranes and reducing maintenance costs.Related:Making rain: can technology drought-proof the Caribbean?The first plant using manipulated osmosis began operating in Gibraltar in March 2009. A second opened in Oman later that year, and another opened in 2010. The company founded by Sharif to commercialise the technology,Modern Water, is listed on the AIM stock market in London, but he admits it has struggled to win contracts and may end up being bought by a larger desalination player.Many desalination companies are eyeing China, which has just 7% of the world’s freshwater but a fifth of its population. About 400 cities face serious water shortages and Beijing aims to quadruple its seawater desalination capacity to 3.6bn litres a day by 2020.Related:Is solar-powered desalination answer to water independence for California?Even London now has a seawater desalination plant. The city and the southeast of England is a “water-stressed area”, says Simon Earl, head of water production for Thames Water. However, the plant is not routinely used and is there “in case of severe drought”, like the one that occurred in 2011 and 2012 after two dry winters.The pressure cartridges at Thames Water’s desalination plant in Beckton, east London.Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesSurprisingly, there is no wastewater recycling in London, although Earl says building that capacity – or a new reservoir or pumping water from other parts of Britain – are options for coping with rising demand.As the world’s population continues to rise, the pressure on water resources are only going to increase. It is yet to be seen whether technological advances will be able to meet the demand.
The ever-growing group of people who scrutinise Apple’s internal politics are poring over the announcement thatSir Jonathan Ivehas beenpromoted to chief design officer. For tech kremlinologists, it raises questions about the 48-year-old Briton. Is he on the way out as well as up? Is it his own choice? Or does it mean that he’s going to devote more time to a huge future project such as the rumoured Apple car?Related:Forget the internet of things – we need an internet of peopleSuch entrail-reading is not a trivial matter. Showing off thefirst iPhone in January 2007, Steve Jobs demonstrated how the user could list contacts. Apple’s founder and then chief executive showed a list of “favorites”, all of them Apple staff, including Tony Fadell, who had been key in developing the iPod that had revived Apple’s fortunes over the previous six years. Then he showed how to delete contacts – just one: “I can just remove Tony. Boom!”Those who study Apple closely gasped – to them, that simple gesture meant that Fadell was out of favour. And sure enough, within two years he was gone, having earlier lost out in the power struggle to provide the software for the iPhone to Scott Forstall, who had headed Jobs’s onstage list.Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, called Ive’s new position – a change from his prior post of Apple’s senior vice-president of design – “exciting”. The role apparently involves more than overseeing the design of software and hardware, as Ive had already been doing. In an internal email to staff, Cook said: “Design is one of the most important ways we communicate with our customers, and our reputation for world-class design differentiates Apple from every other company in the world. As Chief Design Officer, Jony will remain responsible for all of our design, focusing entirely on current design projects, new ideas and future initiatives.”But does that mean the softly-spoken Ive, who has been at Apple since 1992, is more important now, or less? Neil Cybart, a former Wall Street analyst who now runs his own Above Avalon consultancy studying Apple, told the Guardian that the new role “is the closest thing yet to the unofficial role that Steve Jobs held at Apple” as the ultimate guardian of its products.Ive, he says, “now has more time to look at the big picture, although there is plenty of evidence to suggest he will remain focussed on the details as well”. Jobs was famously obsessed with detail: he once rang up a Google executive on a Sunday morning because the green in the Google Maps icon on the iPhone didn’t exactly match that on its website.Ive, too, focuses on elements that some think too trivial to bother with in his search for perfection. But Apple has clearly been signalling through media interviews that its design capabilities don’t rest only with him. ANew Yorker interview in Februarywas granted access to the design lab, and the point was gently made that any product is the result of multiple efforts, not just Ive sketching at a table. Other names – Richard Howarth, now in charge of industrial design, and Alan Dye, in charge of user interface design – have spoken to the press ahead of their promotion this week.Ive has been spread thin, as Cook pointed out: working not just on hardware and software but also the appearance of retail stores, the new “spaceship” campus in Cupertino, product packaging and other things.Now it seems he might take a role similar to Sergey Brin’s at Google, where the co-founder tends to look into the distant future to determine which way to invest resources. Ive could be deciding whether Apple should be working on a car, or whether it should be ignoring the noise and looking at the smart home or smart office. Appropriate, for a man with a poster on his office wall which concludes: “Think about all the fucking possibilities.”And who told the New Yorker’s writer: “So much of our manufactured environment testifies to carelessness.”Richard Windsor, an industry consultant, said: “I also suspect that there may be a degree of succession planning going on here. Tim Cook is no Steve Jobs and he was never meant to be. Perhaps Jony Ive can one day fill those shoes”.But others disagree. Ben Thompson, an independent consultant who runs the Stratechery blog, said the move makes sense, given the importance of design to Apple, but added: “It’s significant that Ive is giving up management responsibilities – unpleasant though they may be, management is how stuff actually gets done. To not be a manager is to, in the long run, not have influence.”For that reason, he thinks Ive is gently, and gradually, ambling towards the exit door. Thompson said: “I think this is the beginning of the end. He’s certainly earned the long fade; I do think Apple – in part because of Ive – has the culture and talent to not miss a beat.”That culture is essential to any company’s survival. Over the weekend, the Wall Street Journal ran an extract from Losing the Signal, a forthcoming book about the fall of BlackBerry, where the chief executives saw Jobs’s iPhone introduction but concluded there was no need to worry; it wasn’t a viable or worthy competitor. At Apple, Cook and Ive will be aware of the dangers of that complacency. Ive’s move could be a guard against just that.Design hits: Jony Ive’s five biggest design icons• Original Apple PowerBook 140 (1991). Ive was still working at the British design company Tangerine, at a time when Apple outsourced design. The first laptops look clunky by modern standards, but set a standard for the market. Ive left Tangerine in frustration after plumbing company Ideal Standard rejected his bathroom product designs as too costly and modern-looking.• Original iMac (1997). The “Bondi Blue” iMac, an all-in-one computer, was friendly, accessible and rounded at a time of “beige boxes”. It revived Apple’s fortunes in the PC market. The translucent blue cover required a new manufacturing technique but was quickly copied by many other companies – both things that would be repeated many times in future.• Original iPod (2001). The scroll wheel wasn’t Ive’s invention, but the non-removable silver back and rounded shape all were. Ive had been working on designs for an MP3 player before Apple greenlighted the project.• iOS 7 (2013). Ive was put in charge of software as well as hardware at the end of 2012. To revive the iPhone and iPad software, which had dated-looking “faux leather” and “paper” icons, he came up with a more colourful and abstract interface that used gestures such as “swipes” to move between screens. Many critics hated it; customers loved it.• iPhone 6 (2014). The eighth incarnation of Apple’s iPhone line broke away from small screens to embrace a 4.7in screen, and is its thinnest and best-selling ever. The “swiping” interaction of iOS 7 from the year before is key to easy use of the big screen – indicative of how carefully Apple lays the foundations for change.
A judge in Milan has shut the door on Uber’sride-sharing business in Italy,dealing a major blow to the $41bn (£26.6bn) US company’s ambitions in Europe.Tuesday’s ruling thatUber’s Pop servicecreates “unfair competition” effectively holds the private company to the same standard as a public taxi service.UberPop, similar to UberX in the UK, allows users of the Uber smartphone app to order a ride from a driver without a commercial licence. By contrast Italian taxi drivers are highly regulated with severe limits on availability of taxi licences.That fact, the court ruled, made UberPop illegal, just like any other taxi company operating without a licence. Uber has argued that it is essentially a technology company and differs from a traditional taxi service because it limits its availability to users of its app, and does not pick passengers up off the street.UberBlack, which uses drivers with professional licences who have been vetted by the company, will continue to be available in Milan and Rome.Related:'Uber protest' by black cab drivers brings traffic chaos to WestminsterThe news further complicated Uber’s plans to expand in Europe, where Uber’s chief executive, Travis Kalanick, said earlier this year that he would create50,000 new jobsby forging “new partnerships” in major European cities.Since then, Uber has faced more road blocks than green lights. It is the subject of a criminal investigation in the Netherlands and an injunction against it in Geneva. Its peer-to-peer unlicensed services in Germany, France and Spain have also been banned.The company is also facing trouble closer to home. US authorities areexamining why some British users of its taxi-booking appwere allegedly charged for rides they did not book or make. Uber said it had seen no evidence of a security breach.Compared to its legal woes in other European cities, Uber had been operating in Italy without the restrictions that it has faced elsewhere. But the company now has weeks to cease operating its Pop service or risk heavy fines.“We are obviously very disappointed by today’s decision on UberPop, a decision that we respect but that we do not understand,” said Zac de Kievit, the legal director of Uber Europe, adding that he was most concerned about drivers who were suddenly facing unemployment.De Kievit said Uber would appeal against the decision and pointed out that the European commission had said that member states ought to ensure “fairness, proportionality, and no discrimination” in the regulation of new technologies.Carlo Alberto Carnevale Maffè, a business professor at the Bocconi school of management in Milan, where Uber is based, said the judge’s ruling was “embarrassing” and “entirely ideological”.“It is a very bad sign of the limitation of innovation [in Italy],” he said. “This is the first case that I know of where a single judge – one person – can decide to stop a service at a national level on the basis of an [unsubstantiated] economic and theoretical argument.”
Meet Thom Phipps.just drank a nice orangina&mdash; thom (@thwphipps)May 25, 2015Thom is a friend of mine, and the co-writer of BBC comedy Asylum. He also tweets a lot.imagine drinking a pint of mayonnaise&mdash; thom (@thwphipps)May 24, 2015A few months ago, Thom tweeted this heartwarming tale.found out last night our cat goes to the kebab shop down the road every day &amp; they give him lamb mince. there&#39;s a picture of him on the wall&mdash; thom (@thwphipps)December 19, 2014It got a lot of retweets. Then Sam Kriss tweeted the same thing.found out last night our cat goes to the kebab shop down the road every day &amp; they give him lamb mince. there’s a picture of him on the wall&mdash; Sam Kriss (@sam_kriss)December 21, 2014It got almost as many retweets. Then everyone else tweeted the same thing.Found out last night our cat goes to the kebab shop down the road every day &amp; they give him lamb mince. there&#39;s a picture of him on the wall&mdash; Abi Wilkinson (@AbiWilks)May 19, 2015found out last night our cat goes to the kebab shop down the road every day &amp; they give him lamb mince. there&#39;s a picture of him on the wall&mdash; Peter Bowden (@petercbowden)May 18, 2015found out last night our cat goes to the kebab shop down the road every day &amp; they give him lamb mince. there&#39;s a picture of him on the wall&mdash; Papa Can You Beer Me (@mokepoke)April 13, 2015found out last night our cat goes to the kebab shop down the road every day &amp; they give him lamb mince. there’s a picture of him on the wall&mdash; Tom (@HealthUntoDeath)December 22, 2014Including me.found out last night our cat goes to the kebab shop down the road every day &amp; they give him lamb mince. there&#39;s a picture of him on the wall&mdash; Alex Hern (@alexhern)March 2, 2015Eventually, it got so bad that another Tom, Tom Whyman,wrote a thinkpiece about how the kebab shop tweet proves that all content is fundamentally inauthentic.Today, Thom realised he is an old man.everybody except me knows the new music&mdash; thom (@thwphipps)May 26, 2015i dont even listen to the radio so i have no ideas what the popular bangers of the day are&mdash; thom (@thwphipps)May 26, 2015can somebody make me a spotify playlist of the ten songs i should be familliar with&mdash; thom (@thwphipps)May 26, 2015And Spotify’s social media team obliged:@thwphippsHey Thom, we&#39;ve got what you need:http://t.co/8DVjRCLVLW&mdash; Spotify (@Spotify)May 26, 2015Except… they weren’t really helping. They were just trolling Thom, like everyone else. Look at the song titles.It turns out, Spotify are old hands at this. Here’s what they sent someone else asking for a playlist of the hits:And here’s what they sent another user:The moral is: don’t use a gif as your avatar on Twitter.
Twitter’s live-streaming app, Periscope, is launching on Android two months after it went live on iOS devices.Android users get Periscope on Tuesday and Twitter is rewarding them for their patience with a host of new features that are unique to the operating system.Most of the new features relate to Periscope’s notification settings, and Android users will be able to opt in to be told when someone they follow on Twitter broadcasts on Periscope for the first time, as well as when someone they follow on Periscope shares someone else’s broadcast.Android users will also be able to resume where they left off if they are watching someone else’s broadcast and get interrupted. And on the Android version, the broadcast can be saved for replay without having to upload the entire file, saving time and mobile data by caching it on Periscope’s servers as it is being sent live.Periscope announced the launch in a blog post that said: “When we started Periscope, we wanted to build the closest thing to teleportation — by providing users with the best way to start or watch a live video broadcast.Related:What do Periscope and Meerkat mean for broadcasting copyright?“As a small startup, our initial launch was limited to just iOS, but we’ve been working really hard to craft an experience that feels special on Android, yet still unmistakably Periscope. Today, we’re excited to announce the launch of Periscope on Android!”Periscope was downloaded more than a million times in the first week after launch, but Twitter have not revealed usage figures for it since then. As of April, however, stats from Mobidia suggested that Periscope, as well as its competitor Meerkat, remained a niche pursuit,with less than half a per cent of US mobile users using the app in any given month.The Android launch may be the key to wider adoption.
The Government Digital Service will not extend its £5.5m deal with Microsoft to extend support for Windows XP, leaving government computers that still run on the obsolete operating system at risk from hackers.The service said ending the support meant “weaknesses that are found in unsupported products will remain unpatched and will be exploitable by relatively low-skilled attackers”.Microsoft withdrew its extended support programme for Windows XP, its 14-year-old operating system, in April 2014. Given the number of Windows XP PCs still being used in government and businesses at the time, Microsoft provided paid-for extended support on a one-off basis.The Crown Commercial Servicebought a year’s extension of support, which includes security updates crucial for keeping hackers at bay, for £5.5m last year to give government departments 12 months to safely migrate from XP.A year on, the Government Digital Service has decidednot to extend that support. The Office of the Chief Technology Officer said: “Technology leaders met last month and took a collective decision to not extend the support arrangement for 2015. The current support agreement ended in April 2015.”Each government department with XP machines are expected to seek deals for support with Microsoft directly, which could end up costing the taxpayer more.Thousands of XP computers now vulnerableWhile the government’s move away from Windows XP, which each department has had seven years’ warning to complete, was described as having had “good process”, some departments have struggled with the transition.The Metropolitan Police Service, for instance, sought a support agreement directly from Microsoft, while HM Revenue and Customs isreportedly behind schedulein its transition to Windows 7 and 8.1.NHS Scotland also has about 2,600 computers still running XP, while the trusts across England and Wales making up NHS services have varying numbers of XP computers.The Crown Commercial Service said that its deal last year saved the government about £20m by buying in bulk compared to individual departmental deals.GDS said: “We expect most remaining government devices using Windows XP will be able to mitigate any risks … where this is not possible, they may need to review their own short-term transition support.”The government’s technology leaders insist that departments behind the curve follow its “obsolete platforms security guidance”, published in April.“It is vital that all organisations only use software products which are supported by the vendor, and that plans be made to migrate from older products as the end of support period is reached,” the guidance advises.•Windows 10 will be ‘the last version of Windows’•Microsoft Edge: Internet Explorer is dead... but can you actually tell the difference?
Twitter is discussing the possibility of acquiring the social media aggregation app Flipboard at a valuation of more than $1bn, according to reports.Twitter’s chief financial officer Anthony Noto has been leading the talks since the beginning of the year, though they are currently stalled,reports Kara Swisher at the technology website Recode.Flipboard’s app aggregates together links and other content shared by users on social networks, and presents them in an attractive magazine-style format. But the company, which has attracted more than $160m in funding, and has an $800m valuation and $50m in revenue, has struggled to grow beyond its early-adopter userbase.Around a year ago, it boasted of 100 million “activated” users – the number of people who have ever used its app – and hasn’t updated that figure since. The app used to come pre-installed on Samsung phones, but that deal ended recently. And many have come to question the wisdom of apeing traditional magazine formats on tablets and smartphones.Related:Flipboard moves to the web with plans to host some news publishers' contentTwitter too has faced its share of growth woes, with the company struggling to convince investors that it can grow its userbase and come up with new ways to make money from them. As Noto told a conference earlier in May, the company’s key problem is that everyone knows what Twitter is, but no one knows how to use it.The two companies may think that the solution to their woes lie with each other. Twitter would bring mature advertising technology to Flipboard’s reader app, offering the chance for the product to start bringing in real revenue; while Flipboard could offer an easier, more appealing product for new users who want to treat Twitter as a one-way medium for reading content shared by others.There’s one other reason Flipboard may be appealing to Noto: Mike McCue, the company’s co-founder. McCue, who is a former board member of Twitter, could be “an obvious heir apparent to CEO Dick Costolo, who has been under siege from investors over the last six months”, Swisher speculates.
A Canadian inventor has set a new world record for hoverboard flight distance, hovering 5m over water for 276m.Catalin Alexandru Duru flew over Lake Ouareau in Quebec, Canada, reaching 275.9m before the batteries ran out.“I wanted to showcase that a stable flight can be achieved on a hoverboard and a human could stand and control with their feet,” said Duru, after travelling five times the distance needed to set the Guinness World Record.Hoverboards have made headlines thanks tothe Hendo board, which, like a maglev train, uses magnetic repulsion to float a couple of centimetres above a floor made of non-ferrous metal such as copper or aluminium.Duru’s hoverboard, by contrast, is more familiar, using a series of propellers much like a drone, to lift the board and its rider up to 5m above the surface.The board, which looks more like theGreen Goblin’s gliderthan a skateboard, took 12 months to design and build and can be used anywhere, although its short flight time means it is not currently a practical means of transport.Marty McFly gets a hoverboard in Back to The Future II in 1989, set in October 2015. Hoverboards don’t look quite how they were imagined in science fiction.Photograph: Allstar Picture LibraryHoverboards were made part of science fiction folklore by the classic 1989 film Back to the Future II, starring Michael J Fox as Marty McFly.McFly travelled to the future, set in October 2015. While many science-fiction predictions have become reality, with tablets, smartphones and wearable miniature computers, kids and adults the world over have dreamed of real, working hoverboards.While Hendo’s maglev board might mirror more closely the image portrayed in Back to the Future II, Duru’s propeller-based system is much more likely to work in the real world – if only for a minute.•Hendo hoverboard: Where we’re going we don’t need roads…•Finally, the flying car may have landed
Apple has promoted Sir Jonathan Ive, the British designer responsible for most of the company’s biggest hits in recent years, to the position of chief design officer at the company.Jony Ive, whose previous title was vice president of design, will continue to be responsible for all of Apple’s design work, “focusing entirely on current design projects, new ideas and future initiatives”,according to Apple chief executive Tim Cook. But Ive’s day-to-day managerial responsibilities will be delegated to the new vice presidents of industrial design and user interface design, Richard Howarth and Alan Dye.Ive’s promotion, first reported by British TV presenter and writer Stephen Fry inan interview with Ive for the Telegraph, frees him up to “travel more”, he told Fry.“Among other things, he will bring his energies to bear – as he has already since their inception – on the Apple stores that are proliferating around the world,” Fry wrote.But the promotion hasbeen interpreted by someas allowing him to live in England, something which Ive, who has two children, has reportedly been keen to do for many years.For most of Ive’s tenure at Apple he was in charge of industrial design – broadly, the physical design of the company’s hardware products. But in June 2013, Ive was promoted from senior vice president of industrial design to senior vice president of design, taking user interface design under his remit following the ouster in 2012 of Apple’s previous software lead, Scott Forstall.
Next time you come back to your car and find it unlocked it might not be because you forgot to lock it – a thief sitting nearby might have actually stopped you locking your car without you knowing.For years science fiction has depicted criminals, governments and security forces being able to block signals with radio jammers. Now criminals in the UK have started to get their hands on jammers and are using them to break into cars.A recent incident caught on camera by a passerby at the Manchester Fort Shopping Park has highlighted just how easy it is to stop people being able to use their remote central locking car keys.Carpark jamming captured by passerby Autumn DePoe-Hughes. (Needs sound)These keys use radio waves to communicate with a receiver inside the car. The key sends a signal to the car with a unique identifier and a command to either lock or unlock the car. But the wireless communication, like any other radio usage, can be jammed.A device can be used to flood the radio spectrum used by the keys with interference, which stops the low-power system of the remote car keys from working.Many cars that use radio keys no longer have separate key locks for manual operation, so the jammer can stop a driver from either locking or unlocking their car using their key.As long as the owner doesn’t realise what’s going on, car thieves then have potentially a field of open cars to plunder.The incident in Manchester showed that an entire open car park can easily be covered by jammers.A spokesperson for Greater Manchester Police told the Guardian that “GMP is not aware of any reports from the public regarding the jamming of their car’s central locking frequency at Manchester Fort Shopping Park” and appealed for any victims to come forward.Those concerned are advised to make sure they check that their car door is locked.Photograph: Barry Gnyp/Getty Images/Uppercut RFIn December last year, a 25-year-old man was convicted of using a signal jammer to break into cars in the Greater Manchester area. Michael Fennell used a signal jammer bought outside of the UK for just £35 to target central Manchester car parks.The jammer was used to prevent victims from locking their cars without their knowledge. Fennell simply opened the doors leaving no trace of the intrusion and leaving victims unaware that they had been targeted.Judge David Hernandez jailed Fennell for eight months at Manchester Crown Court, saying at his sentencing: “These devices are becoming readily available – there needs to be a very clear message sent out to the public: if you commit an offence like this where you deliberately go out to target the property of other people, having bought a jammer, you will go to prison immediately.”More and more cars rely on wireless technology for security and operation. A popular feature called keyless entry, which simply requires the presence of a key near to or within a car to keep it unlocked and operational relies on a constant wireless signal that could be jammed.Car companies are aware of the possibility of these kinds of attacks. Vehicle theft is now the lowest it has been since 1968 and has dropped 70% in the last 10 years.A spokeswoman for the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders said: “The automotive industry continues to work tirelessly to stay one step ahead of criminals by working closely with police, insurers and security experts.”“However, to ensure thefts continue to fall, it is crucial that authorities across the country have a unified approach to collect more detailed data about how vehicles are stolen, so that both manufactures and motorists are best placed to keep their vehicles secure.”For those worried about jammers, the advice is make sure your car is locked before walking away. Watch for the flash of lights and sounds that indicate the car has successfully locked all doors. Manually check that the door is locked and do not leave valuables in view inside the car.Those concerned that a jammer is being used within range of their car can also report the incident to the police and are advised not to leave their vehicle unattended.•Uber’s first self-driving car spotted in Pittsburgh
A funny thing happened on the way to the high-tech dystopia.Fifteen years ago, there were very few “technology activist” groups in the field. My former (and once again) employer, theElectronic Frontier Foundation, was one of the first wave, preceded by a scant few like theFree Software Foundation. These groups were excited by the possibilities of technology, of course – but that’s not what animated them. Rather, they were and are motivated by a mixture of hope and fear: hope for the ways technology could give us a better world, and fear of how technology will make the world worse in a million ways.I became aware of the movement’s existence in 1993, shortly before I dropped out of university (for the fourth and final time) and went to work as a programmer. I remember it well: I was about to get on a Greyhound bus from downtown Toronto to the University of Waterloo. I had a used laptop with a battery that only lasted 30 minutes, and it was an hour-long ride, so I bought a brand-new magazine to read: the first issue of Wired I’d ever seen. it was issue 1.2, and the cover story was“Crypto Rebels,” by Steven Levy.The article impressed me with the technical infrastructure proposed by the burgeoning “cypherpunk” movement, who saw a day coming soon in which networked computers would mediate all our actions, which could be secured by means of mathematically elegant, provable cryptographic tools that would allow parties to authenticate each others’ messages, keep secrets, and establish trust in a world where they wouldn’t ever meet and anyone could be listening.Even more impressive to me – as someone who’d grown up inside the anti-nuclear proliferation and social justice movements – was the sense that computers could be a tool for organising mass movements, and that they could also be a tool to smash them. Once everything that challenged the establishment was on the net, the giant corporations and governments that controlled it would be able to spy on everything everyone did, all the time. I’d grown up on tales of Pierre Trudeau’sWar Measures Act, a period of Canadian law when the intelligence services dirty-tricked their way through radical groups with total, lawless impunity. Imagine what they could have done if the internet had obviated the need to break into the offices of radical groups to steal their files.Now it’s 2015, and if there’s one thing that gives me hope for the future, it’s the sheer proliferation of activist groups whose cause is, in some way or another, internet freedom. Every EU nation has a group of its own, from the UK’sOpen Rights Group(disclosure: I co-founded ORG) to the Netherlands’Bits of Freedom, and dozens more. Not because the most important fight we have is the internet – there are far more pressing issues than how we regulate the net, from climate change to economic injustice. But every one of those fights will be won or lost on the internet, which makes the fight for the net the most foundational fight, if not the most important.And here’s the funny thing that happened on the way to the high-tech dystopia: the movement to make the internet open, free and fair has accumulated a long, dragging kite-tail of critics who claim that activists are “techno-determinists” blind to the way that the net makes it possible to alienate workers from one another, lets criminals plunder innocents’ bank accounts and trash their privacy, and puts whole populations under surveillance. They say that technology activists think that technology is the answer to everything, and can do no wrong.Robert Downey Jr (right) as the entrepreneurial Tony Stark in Avengers: Age of Ultron – nice plot foil, lousy IRL approach to technology.Photograph: Allstar/Marvel Studios/Sportsphoto Ltd./AllstarI know a lot of internet activists and I don’t know anyone who fits that bill. Oh sure, there are entrepreneurial hucksters with Tony Stark complexes who’ll tell you that there’s a bright future around the corner, thanks to the miraculous power of the internet to solve our problems. Those people have been with usforever. But they’re not the ones who fight for online freedom.The only reason to be a technology activist is if you don’t believe in determinism. An activist is someone who thinks that the future is up for grabs, and that what we do today can make tomorrow better. An activist is someone who thinks that without action, things will be worse. Activism is a synonym of indeterminacy, a belief that the future changes because people change it.It’s true: technology activists view the world through the lens of technology. If the “sharing economy” has become a front for exploitative labour practices, tech activists might propose a collective bargaining app, a crowdsourced lobbying campaign, a networked co-op for workers whose cream is being skimmed by venture-backed corporations. These activities are technological, but they attack the problem as a market problem, a legal problem and a normative problem.This isn’t “solutionism” – it’s activism. Technology makes it cheaper to try stuff than ever before. Activists can coordinate with one another and test a lot of tactics out to see how they work. When networked computers become a problem, we need to fix the problem – and it’s natural to start with the networked computers that are causing the problem. Not because everything looks like a nail to a person with a hammer – because you can’t solve a problem by ignoring its source.Geeks can be wrong. Very wrong. I am often wrong. But technology will change the world in profound ways. It’s urgent that we get that change right, or things will go very wrong indeed. Those are two things that geeks have been right about all along.
An alliance of prominent academics has signed a letter to the government warning against any expansions of state surveillance without the full involvement of parliament and the public.The letter’s 38 signatories, led by LSE law professor Andrew Murray and University of East Anglia lecturer in IT law Paul Bernal, call on the new government “to ensure that any changes in the law, and especially any expansions of power, are fully and transparently vetted by parliament, and open to consultation from the public and all relevant stakeholders”.They warn that previous expansions of state power have frequently been introduced in a manner “seemingly designed to stifle robust democracy consideration”. In February 2015, for instance, the Home Office published a draft code of practice granting the intelligence services the authority to hack into computers, domestically and overseas, for the first time.The signatories write that despite the fact hacking “is a much more intrusive form of surveillance than any previously authorised by parliament”, the government sought to authorise it through a code of practice rather than through primary legislation, which would require a parliamentary debate and scrutiny.Similarly, the government granted the police and intelligence services effective immunity from criminal liability for hacking through a simple “clarifying amendment” to the Serious Crimes Act 2015. The newly legal ability on the part of the state to hack into computers “also threatens the security of all internet services”, the letter details, “as the tools intelligence services use to hack can create or maintain security vulnerabilities that may be used by criminals to commit criminal acts and other governments to invade our privacy”.“The government should not be permitted to surreptitiously change the law whenever it so desires, especially where such changes put our privacy and security at risk,” the signatories conclude.“We are calling on all members of the House of Commons, new and returning, and of all political persuasions to support us in this by ensuring parliamentary scrutiny is applied to all developments in UK surveillance laws and powers as proposed by the current government,” they add.The letter is signed by legal and cybersecurity experts from across the UK, including professors from the universities of Oxford, Essex, Sussex and Durham. It is being sent to all 650 MPs in parliament on Tuesday morning.
When Philip Zimmermann was campaigning for nuclear disarmament in the 1980s, he kept an escape plan in his back pocket. The inventor of the world’s most widely used email encryption system, Pretty Good Privacy – more commonly known as PGP – was ready to move his family from Colorado to New Zealand at a moment’s notice.The button was never pressed and the Zimmermanns stayed put. Until this year, that is. At 61, the Internet Hall of Fame inductee and founder of three-year-old mobile encryption startup Silent Circle has just left the US for Switzerland. In the end, it was not the nuclear threat that convinced him to leave his homeland, but the surveillance arms race.“Every dystopian society has excessive surveillance, but now we see even western democracies like the US and England moving that way,” he warns. “We have to roll this back. People who are not suspected of committing crimes should not have information collected and stored in a database. We don’t want to become like North Korea.”Zimmermann stopped in London to host a reception at the Victoria &amp; Albert Museum where his cryptographic handset, the Blackphone, is currently on display, alongside the remains of a laptop destroyed on government orders by Guardian editors wielding angle grinders, because it contained a trove of secret documents leaked by Edward Snowden.Philip Zimmermann interviewed at the Guardian.Zimmermann and Snowden are 30 years apart in age, but their actions have framed the privacy debate. Zimmermann switched his focus from campaigning against nuclear weapons to pushing back on state snooping in 1991, when he released PGP for free over the internet in an act of political defiance. His protest helped prevent legislation which would have forced software companies to insert “backdoors” in their products, allowing the government to read encrypted messages.Theuser manualfor PGP, written by Zimmermann in 1991 and updated seven years later, is a startling prediction of the mass surveillance methods that were eventually adopted by the NSA after 9/11. It warns:Today, email can be routinely and automatically scanned for interesting keywords, on a vast scale, without detection. This is like driftnet fishing.”It would take a further 20 years before Snowden’s revelations brought these concerns to the attention of the wider world. But when the former NSA contractor reached out to the journalists who would help him blow the whistle, he did so using PGP.No customer numbers have been released, but the chatter among well-placed venture capitalists is that Silent Circle is expanding fast – earlier this year it raised $50m (£32m) in a second round of outside funding. Its backers includes Ross Perot Jr, son of the 1992 US presidential candidate.Protesters supporting Edward Snowden, the NSA whistleblower, outside the US consulate in Hong Kong.Photograph: Bobby Yip/ReutersThe second generation Blackphone 2, costing around $700, is on its way this year, and will be followed by a first attempt at a tablet computer. Zimmermann started the company with former US navy seal sniper Mike Janke and the pair have been successfully selling their technology to special operations forces in the US, Canada, the UK and Australia. The Silent Phone and Silent Text apps, which allow secure voice calls and text messages over Android and Apple handsets, are even more popular, particularly with journalists working in dangerous places and businesses handling sensitive information.Despite the Silent Circle pin in his jacket lapel, Zimmermann is less interested in talking about his products than discussing the need to push back against what he calls the “golden age of surveillance” being enjoyed by western governments.Silent Circle’s move to Switzerland was prompted by theLavabit affair. Lavabit provided an email service for 410,000 people, including Edward Snowden. In the summer of 2013, its founder, Ladar Levison, was served with a court order requiring the installation of surveillance equipment. Despite protests, he decided to close his service.Silent Circle took fright. Along with voice and text it offered email. The content was encrypted, but the who, where and when of messages was there to be hacked or extracted by court order. So the email tool was shut down and its database wiped. The next step was relocation to Geneva. “We are less likely to encounter legal pressures there than in the US,” says Zimmermann.To the average law-abiding citizen, campaigners such as Zimmermann might seem a little paranoid. Public support for Snowden in the UK was tepid compared to Germany, where the realities of living under a police state require no leap of imagination.British society is “too accepting of surveillance”, Zimmermann believes. “Here people have a comfortable relationship with their own government and maybe that’s why they don’t raise objection to it. Future governments that come to power might not be so nice, and if they inherit a surveillance infrastructure then they could use this to create an incumbency that cannot be changed.”He warns of point-and-click prosecutions, with traffic cameras and facial recognition detecting journalists lunching with whistleblowers, politicians meeting mistresses, or private citizens getting behind the wheel of a car after one too many pints.Of course, Silent Circle’s commercial interests are clearly served by talking up the privacy threat. Other internet pioneers have become billionaires and Zimmermann is prospecting for his own share of the digital goldrush. “If I made some money from this it wouldn’t be such a terrible thing,” he admits. “I’m getting older now so I have to think about such things.”PGP-encrypted emails to block outside surveillance.Photograph: Pawel Kopczynski/Reuters/CorbisThe secret life of PGPPhilip Zimmermann’s own life is a lesson in what can happen to those who challenge the US’s ability to gather information.Born in New Jersey and brought up in Florida, his father was a cement truck driver. There was no expectation he would go to university. But the boy wanted to be an astronomer. “My family was poor, sometimes we didn’t have a place to live, so I went to many schools, and then when I went away to college my life settled down.”Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton did not have a mainframe computer. Its terminals, some with punchcards instead of screens, were connected by phone lines to Miami. Zimmermann wrote his first program, teaching the computer to learn his name. “There was something really cool about the ghost in the machine. The computer was a machine that could react to a human.”By the 1980s he had moved to Boulder, Colorado, and was working as an IT consultant, but spending 40 hours a week as a peace activist. In 1984, he met the celebrity astronomer Carl Sagan, the actor Martin Sheen and the Pentagon Papers whistleblower Daniel Ellsberg – in a police jail. They had been arrested after breaking into the Nevada nuclear test site.In April 1991, the coding community was alerted to a clause in the post-Gulf war anti-terrorism Senate bill 266, that allowed the government to obtain “the plain text contents” of voice, data, and other communications “when appropriately authorised by law”.Zimmermann had by then designed PGP in his free time and agreed to the release of his source code in June of that year. The hope was that if enough Americans began protecting their electronic mail, just as postal mail is protected by envelopes, the legislation would become pointless.PGP works by assigning each user a pair of keys – one public and one private. The user shares their public key – but any messages sent to them using it can only be decrypted by their private key. There is no central database of private keys to facilitate snooping.An engineer calledKelly Goenbegan seeding copies of PGP to host computers. Fearing a government injunction, he took every precaution. Instead of working from home, he drove around the San Francisco bay area with a laptop, acoustic coupler and a mobile phone. He would stop at a payphone, upload copies for a few minutes, then disconnect and head for the next phone.Goen’s upload had been restricted to US sites, but eventually PGP began circulating elsewhere. The offending clause was dropped from bill 266, but in February 1993 Zimmermann was visited by two customs agents. The government, it seemed, was bent on prosecuting him for the illegal export of “munitions”. Strong cryptography was at the time considered a weapon under US law and Zimmermann was the subject of a three-yearcriminal investigationbefore the charges were dropped.Today, his biggest worry is not software backdoors, but the petabytes (1m gigabytes) of information being hoarded by the likes of Google and Facebook. “If you collect all that data, it becomes an attractive nuisance. It’s kind of a siren calling out inviting someone to come and try to get it. Governments say that if private industry can have it, why can’t our intelligence agencies have it?”At the end of the interview, Zimmermannanswers the question in a short video. “A certain amount of elbow grease has to be expended when the police do their work. If it becomes too frictionless, you can slide more easily into a police state. I think we should restore a little bit of that friction.”Before recording the message, he has removed his corporate lapel pin. Zimmermann hopes to make money, but for the father of email cryptography, the political still trumps the commercial.
At the 2014 Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Jan Koum, chief executive of WhatsApp, made an announcement that would cause much unease 4,000 miles away in New Delhi. “We want to make sure people always have the ability to stay in touch with their friends and loved ones really affordably,” he said. “We’re going to introduce voice on WhatsApp in the second quarter of this year.”India’s telecom operators were less than enthusiastic about this announcement.. With more than70m users in India, the instant messaging platform has emerged as one of the most popular alternatives to conventional text messaging – enough to make telecom operators jittery.It isn’t surprising then that at the same event, India’s telecoms operators made it clear that they wanted a revenue-sharing agreement with internet companies. They believed that services such as WhatsApp’s voice-calling feature would potentially cut the revenue generated by voice calls and text messages.In essence, telecom operators wanted the internet to be mouldable, to be shaped in any way they liked. After all, India is one of the world’s fastest-growing internet markets, with 851m connections according to Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) figures .Telecom companies know this and profit from the internet services they provide to mobile phone users. For instance, major Indian networks like Airtel added 7.46m 3G internet connections, Vodafone 11.4m and Idea Cellular 7.1m in the past four quarters, according toMedianama.com. Yet they want greater control of how people use the internet on mobile phones.On 27 March, the telecoms regulator released a “consultation paper” in which it made a series of recommendations to deal with the growth of internet services and apps. The key cornerstones of this 118-page minefield of legalese and jargon advocate the licensing of internet companies, along with killing the network neutrality that exists in India today.‘Pay up or be throttled’Nikhil Pahwa, editor of Medianama.com, says: “Either you will have licensing of all internet companies if they want to be available in India – whether those companies are operating out of India or abroad. Or the same rules [that govern telecom companies] will apply to anything that involves any form of communication such as messaging or voice. So any service which uses either voice or messaging will need to buy a licence.”The regulator also recommended that internet companies register themselves with telecom operators to ensure smooth service delivery to users. “So effectively, there would be a splintered version of the internet, where one part will be that companies become vendors of telecom operators. For that, they’ll have to pay and [in return] they will receive certain privileges,” Pahwa explains. “Those who don’t pay for these privileges will then be throttled or they will be made more expensive – or they may be blocked.”That means a telco like Airtel could sign a deal with WhatsApp, offering it for free and slowing down, blocking access to or increasing the price of Apple’s iMessage service or similar third-party apps such as WeChat.As this was a public consultation paper, Indians were asked to give their views on its recommendations to the telecoms regulator by 24 April. Pahwa and a group of like-minded friends saw an opportunity to prevent control of the internet being handed to the big telcos.Soon after the consultation paper was released, Pahwa became part of a coalition of more than 50 artists, journalists, techies and lawyers who started Save The Internet – an online campaign that urged Indians to send in their suggestions of ways to preserve net neutrality to the regulator . They created a list of answers to the 20 questions the regulator posed in its consultation paper that users could copy, paste and email to it in just three clicks.Initially, public response was muted, but all that changed on 11 April, when AIB, a popular comedy troupe, made avideosimplifying network neutrality and highlighting how the regulator’s recommendations could have an adverse effect on internet usage in India. The strategy seemed to have been inspired by Jon Oliver’s13-minute sketchthat urged Americans to visit the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) website and demand net neutrality. Like its American cousin, this strategy too was successful.The Indian comedy troupe AIB produced a YouTube video highlighting the importance of net neutrality.Photograph: YouTubeBy the time 24 April arrived, 1.1 million Indians (including this writer) had emailed the TRAI, urging it not to license what it called “over-the-top”, internet-based services, nor to give telecom operators the legal sanction to start “zero-rating” plans – or charging different prices for different services.Media companies such as NDTV, Times Internet and NewsHunt, as well as travel portal Cleartrip, all announced that they were leavingInternet.org, Facebook’s controversial effort to offer selective internet access to those hitherto without it. Tathagata Satpathy, an MP from the Biju Janata Dal party of Orissa, wrote a strongly worded letter of dissent to the telecoms regulator , saying that its recommendations would allow “big companies to form monopolies over the mobile web”.But the consultation paper of March was only one step in a concerted effort by telecom operators to fundamentally alter the way Indians use the internet. In December 2014, the website TelecomTalkreportedthat Airtel had started charging users an additional amount for calls made via apps like Skype and Viber, over and above the data packs they had subscribed to. Once Airtel’s violation of network neutrality was revealed, the company backtracked and said it would wait for the regulator’s consultation paper.Related:Can the internet be saved without harming democracy?“I read this differently from most people,” Pahwa recalls. “Most people said that ‘users have won’ because consumers had asked for this to be withdrawn. My reading was that the only reason why it had been withdrawn was because the TRAI agreed to do a consultation. In effect, it had been forced to do a consultation.”In January 2015, Medianama also reported that Rajan Mathews, director general of the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI), had written a letter to TRAI chairman Rahul Khullar in December 2014, asking for WhatsApp to be licensed – a demand that became a “recommendation” in the regulator’s consultation paper. So why did TRAI act in the manner that it did? We made multiple attempts to reach its representatives but no one was available to respond.Cost of accessThe global definition of net neutrality stops at advocating an internet that is equal for all. But in the Indian context, there is an additional dimension – zero-rating services. That refers to consumers’ data packs being subsidised either by their telecom service providers or by the app/service they are accessing. For instance, Flipkart, the Indian e-commerce giant, signed a deal with Airtel to “zero-rate” its services on Airtel’s platform.The deal was severely criticised for creating an unequal playing field. While Flipkart could afford to pay Airtel, a smaller start-up would not be able to. Once the net neutrality debate in India gained momentum, Flipkart decide to scrap this arrangement. “In India, zero-rating is far more important because it isn’t about slow lanes and fast lanes,” explains Pahwa. “It’s about cost of access and whether some sites are being made cheaper than others and, therefore, some sites being made more expensive than others. All of this influences a consumer’s decision whether to access a service or not.”Indian online retailer Flipkart signed a controversial access deal with mobile operator Airtel.Photograph: FlipkartFor their part, the COAI claims that it too believes in giving users equal access to the internet and not throttling traffic. How, then, does it justify its members offering zero-rating services? “It’s a misunderstanding of what Airtel did,” says the COAI’s Mathews. “Airtel provided a non-discriminatory platform to anybody who wanted [it] as an application provider. This is not for regular customers. It’s only for qualifying applications to put them on mobile networks and the internet. So what Airtel did was provide free access to service providers. There was no discrimination and it was equal.”In its counter-comment submission to the telecoms regulator, the COAI has asked for zero-rating services to stay in the interest of “social welfare”. “Programs like zero-rating, which we call subsidised calling plans, are intended to get people who have never used the internet, who have not become familiar with it, who have very sensitive price points [to], in a subsidised manner, try to come on to the internet,” adds Mathews.The COAI has also argued that services like WhatsApp are the same as regular voice calls and text messaging and thus deprive mobile operators of revenue. Hence, they argue they should be allowed to charge users extra to access such apps. On both counts, the industry body seems on shaky ground.Not a luxury but a necessityIn its counter-comment submissions to the TRAI, Medianama.com has said that Airtel, Vodafone, Reliance and Idea, India’s top four telecom operators, have added 8.5 million users. Moreover, Airtel’s average revenue per user (ARPU) from data services increased by a record 13.3% quarter-on-quarter. Data revenue for Idea Cellular rose 5.9%.This unprecedented campaign to protect net neutrality in India underlines the importance of the internet. For millions of young Indians today, the internet is not a luxury but a necessity. In a country rife with political, social and economic inequalities, the web is a liberating universe that flattens hierarchies, creates room for innovation and allows unadulterated and totally free expression of speech. It is a reason why some of India’s most successful startups also have called for the internet to be kept neutral.What also helped was a sustained effort by the Save The Internet coalition, during which they turned TRAI’s 118-page minefield into a 23-page easy-to-comprehend document. (According to Pahwa, India’s MPs have chosen to read this rather than the original paper). In Bangalore, his colleague Kiran Jonnalagadda helped run the Save The Internet website and set up the @bulletinbabu Twitter account – a live counter of emails sent to the regulator. They also drafted a letter citizens could send to their local MPs, urging them to support net neutrality. “These consultations are only public for the name of it,” Pahwa added. “They’re not public consultations – we helped make this a public consultation.”Will the next Angry Birds come out of India
Do you like receiving email? Do you have an Instagram account? Then we have good news for you. The photo-sharing network is going to start taking its lead from parent company Facebook and sending regular email updates to users collating the best posts from people they follow.If you don’t like receiving email, and have an Instagram account, then we have bad news. The same thing’s going to happen to you as well.The new email digests, called “highlights”, are similar to those sent out by Twitter, and are designed to solve the same problem in both cases: keeping users engaged with a network that presents updates in reverse-chronological order. That format is perfect for ensuring that content remains fresh, but creates the risk of missing the best posts due to users not being online at the right time.The app is already one of the thirstiest around when it comes to push notifications, sending users a reminder not just when they have unseen interactions but also reminding them, if they haven’t opened the app for a while, that some of their friends have posted pictures that they haven’t seen.TechCrunch’s Josh Constine explains Instagram’s issue: the site “has ‘300 million monthly users’, but that’s an imprecise statistic encompassing some who hardly check it. To accomplish its mission of sharing moments and fuel its ad-based business model, it needs us to voraciously browse its feed,” he says.“Highlights could remind people what they’re missing when they don’t open Instagram,” Constine adds.The email digest also comes at the right time culturally. After a period in the doldrums, email newsletters are on the up, with people and organisations as diverse as Kickstarter (whoseHappeningemail contains “links we like” as well as a curated selection of crowdfunding projects) and copyright lawyers Parker Higgins and Sarah Jeong (whoseFive Useful Articlescontains just that, focused around presenting news and updates relating to IP law in a humorous and accessible way).Of course, those email updates are opt-in, requiring users to explicitly state that they want to be included, and they’re carefully and manually put together. Instagram’s Highlights, at least for the users who have received the early trials, is neither of those. There is an “unsubscribe” function, but Constine reports it doesn’t actually work yet.
Theinternet of thingsis a vision of ubiquitous connectivity driven by one basicidea: screens are not the only gateway to the ultimate network of networks.With sensors, code and infrastructure, any object – from a car, to a cat, to a barcode – can become networked. But the question we need to ask is: should they be? And, if so, how?Public debate over the internet of things is polarised. Commentators tend to voice either excessive optimism or total scepticism, with precious little in between.From enchanted to cursedThe optimists describe a magical realm of “enchanted objects”, where our possessions gently anticipate our every need. The umbrella’s handleglows bluewhen rain is forecast; the connectedfridgereminds us when we’re out of milk. Our households become well-oiled machines, as elegantly efficient as any Victorian manor house – but with no servants’ wages to pay (or at least, notoneswecansee).The other camp paints a darker picture. They claim that, at best, the internet of things is just another excuse forrampant consumerism, whose only contribution will be to clog basements with yet moreunnecessary junk.But at worst,everyday householdobjects will be turned intoenemy spies, placing us under constantsurveillance. We will benudgedandmanipulatedat every moment. Our lives and possessions will be perpetually exposed tohackers. The internet of things will fill our homes with objects all right, but those objects arefar from enchanted– they are cursed.A cybersecurity expert monitors telecommunications traffic at a network operations centre in a Verizon facility in Ashburn, Virginia.Photograph: Jonathan Ernst/ReutersA third wayIt seems that we are on theprecipiceeither of an unrealistic digital Hogwarts or a dystopia of surveillance and exploitation. Neither is appealing. So are we stuck with an internet of either stupid or evil things? Or is there another option?The way out is counterintuitive. In short, we need to forget about the things. We need to stop obsessing over “smart” objects, and start thinking smart about people.We can hardly tear our gaze away from our portals to the internet. And these devices are getting in our way. Being chained to our desks is lopping chunks off ourlifespans. Staring at our smartphones isdamaging our spines. We’relosing sleep. Oureyesight is failing. Our very identities arethreatenedby theopaque web.Something must change.Wearables are not enoughSo far, the most high-profile attempts to reimagine our portals –Google Glassand theApple Watch– have been disappointing variations on a theme. They’re still screens, whether on your face or on your wrist.But our default way of interacting with the world isn’t by peering at screens. We respond to the environment, to what it offers us, in an automatic and intuitive way. In most everyday scenarios, we don’t see our things asthingsat all. We just use them: we see a hammer, and we grasp it. We see a rubber ball, and we squeeze it, or bounce it.This wasHeidegger’sinsight, and it also motivates the enchanted objects thesis. The world presents itself, in the first instance, as ready to hand – as being available for use. We manoeuvre things with our bodies unthinkingly, performing immensely complicated calculations without even being aware of it.The world is full of information that we access instinctively. But so far, this knowledge has been useless in the resolutely two-dimensional digital world. The challenge, and the opportunity, is to harness our knowledge of how real, graspable and bounceable things work, and use it to shape more meaningful, fulfilling, connected experiences. But how?In search of a ‘digital Bauhaus’Back in the early 20th century, theBauhausmovement defined itself with two slogans: first, that form should follow function; and second, that design should be truthful to materials.Bauhaus designs were honest. No more gold-toned metal, or stone carved into rose petals, or faux Greek columns to make a building look serious. We should know instinctively what an object does just by encountering it.Screens don’t communicate anything about what they do. They remove us from our surroundings. And not only that, but as we tap and swipe merrily past terms and conditions, our personal information is siphoned off to third parties soinvisibly and incomprehensiblythat we can easilyignorethat it is happening.But what if we could design objects that utilised the internet in truly smart, differentiated ways, while also communicating their own function? What if we could understand this function intuitively, effortlessly? And what if these objects showed us – actually showed us, through their design features, theirdata flowsand their legally-binding background conditions – how our information is being used, who can access it, where it is going, and why?Centre Georges Pompidou, close-up.Photograph: Allan Baxter/Getty ImagesWhat if, like thePompidou Centre, the pipes of each thing were worn on the outside, arguing the case – rather than merely assuming it – forwhywe need to network it in the first place?The digital world is up for grabsThis is the true potential of the internet of things. It could put our vast stores of tacit, embodied knowledge to work online. It could unite the physical and digital worlds. And it could put us incontrolof ourown informationand contextual integrity, against amoraland political backdrop that is resolutely committed to human rights, the rule of law and social cohesion. It could become an internet, not of smart things, but of smart, empowered people.It’s hard to see what this would look like, exactly. Butimagining itshouldn’t just be delegated to tech companies and opportunists riding thehype cycle. Artists, designers, philosophers, lawyers, psychologists and social workers must be just as involved as engineers and internet users in shaping our collective digital future.The internet has become such an ubiquitous part of our lives that we tend to forget that it is in its infancy. It’s still just a crudeprototypeof what it could be. The internet of the future doesn’t have to be like the internet of today: flat,monopolisedanddangerouslyopaque. Its form, contours and feel are still, quite literally, up for grabs.
Kirby returns in clay-sculpted form on the Wii U and as with the DS hitKirby’s Power Paintbrush, he abandons vacuuming enemies in favour of drawn lines and tapping. This more sedate gameplay favours forward thinking rather than quick reflexes and along with beautifully tactile visuals creates dreamlike challenges with their own peculiar logic.Painting these lines is achieved directly on the Wii U gamepad that mirrors the TV screen, then up to three more players can join to protect Kirby using either Wii Remotes or Pro Controllers. They move freely but must rely on the rainbow ropes created by the main player and stick close to Kirby to avoid being warped forward. Three amiibos, Kirby, King Dedede and Meta Knight can be tapped on the gamepad to trigger special power ups, although use is limited to one a day.There’s some longevity here too, the six-hour campaign is extended by hunting down hidden chests containing figurines and music treasures, while challenge mode provides a more substantial test, requiring quicker reactions. A comprehensive and well-aimed package, then, with easier difficulty, non-competitive multiplayer and a novel visual style fittingKirby and the Rainbow Paintbrushperfectly for a younger audience.
