You can make money from surfing the web. But - unsurprisingly - you're not going to get rich quick. If you want to get paid for your time directly,www.YouGov.comis the place. This research firm pays you 50p or 75p for completing surveys, which are usually politically based, as well as &#163;1 for signing up.You receive notification by email, and to earn the fee, you normally have to fill in the survey that same day. But you don't get any money until your balance reaches &#163;50. And in 12 weeks of membership, I received just three surveys. The account stands at &#163;2.75.The online point-collection sitewww.ipoints.co.ukdoes not pay out cash, except to the children's charity Barnardo's, in which case 140 points can be turned into a &#163;10 donation.This values ipoints at about 7p each, the value used in this article. With other redemption offers, ipoints are worth between 5p and 8p each, and you get more if you spend more at once. I redeemed 250 ipoints for a &#163;15 book voucher fromwww.WHSmith.co.uk- good value, because postage &amp; packing was also free.However, you can't take change or order more than one book, so ideally, you need one that costs just less than your voucher. The book arrived by post in about a week. Ipoints can also be redeemed for CDs, DVDs, wine, computer games and peripherals, chocolates and retailer vouchers. The cheapest redemption is 40 ipoints, which can get you a free bowling session or a mobile ringtone or logo.One to avoid, however, is the offer of text messages through ipoints' website - you can get these free fromwww.O2.co.ukorwww.orange.co.uk. You can get free ipoints from YouGov's long-established rivalNOP.In eight weeks, I was invited to complete four surveys, but was only eligible for two. These both took five minutes to complete, and were worth five ipoints each - 35p, or &#163;4.20 an hour. That's the minimum wage, but isn't bad if you complete the survey on work time. NOP also paid 20 points for registration.When joining Ipoints, there are a couple of general surveys you can fill in for a few more points. You can also get free ipoints in return for receiving text    messages. The website,www.themobilechannel.com, pays you five ipoints to join, then 10 more for every 20 text messages you deign to receive. But you can't just inflict them on a friend, as the sign-up process requires a code sent to your phone.In eight weeks I received just five messages. Three concerned a rather tacky-sounding promotional night for a brand of drink that, for 1.5 ipoints/10p, is not getting a mention.The Mobile Channel also allows you to choose &#163;5 mobile phone or retailer vouchers, but you need to receive 100 messages to get one. To get enough ipoints for a decent reward is through a relatively high-value transaction. Most of the ipoints I gathered came from opening a shareholding ISA with Selftrade (250 points, or about &#163;17.50).Another 50 ipoints (&#163;3.50) came fromwww.virginwines.co.uk, for buying a case of wine with a voucher sent on joining ipoints. This was in addition to the &#163;20 voucher Virgin Wines offers first-time customers.Other quick ways of getting a lot of points include opening a credit card withwww.Halifax.co.uk, which pays 200 ipoints (&#163;14); joining ISP Tiscali, 70 ipoints (&#163;4.90); and usingwww.Unitedutilities.co.ukphone service, 150 ipoints (&#163;10.50), along with five ipoints for each &#163;10 spent on calls.However, it costs &#163;7.50 to sign up, and there are cheaper services with no joining fee.  A lot of online stores offer a few ipoints for any purchase, although the amounts vary widely. The least generous offers just one ipoint for each &#163;10 spent online.But it's certainly worth claiming points from WH Smith, which offers eight ipoints per &#163;10, or 5.6p per &#163;1 spent; John Lewis, 10 ipoints per &#163;10, 7p per pound; and the generous audiobook firmwww.Listen2Books.co.uk, which offers two ipoints for every &#163;1 spent - equivalent to 14p per &#163;1.You do need to check your statement. Some ipoints, such as those from NOP surveys, appeared swiftly. But those from Virgin Wines sat in a "pending" category for several weeks, and the ipoints from Selftrade had to be claimed by clicking a link on its own site after shares were purchased. Using ipoints or YouGov means passing on personal data.However, as required by law, every company gives you the option of opting out of marketing spam. In the two months since signing up, and through using separate email addresses to track what comes from where, I received just one unrequested marketing email from Ipoints, and none from its partners or YouGov. The email included clear instructions for unsubscribing.
Daily doseIt is, of course, expected that you follow the Doonesbury cartoon carefully in G2 every day. In which case you will already know the strip has been dwelling on the subject of weblogs, to hilarious effect, this week. For those of you who have missed out, shame on you. But to save you raking round the bin for the papers from earlier this week, you could always go to theDoonesbury websitefor a second chance to enjoy them.Home pageOne of the coolest things about the internet has been its ability to bring people interested in particular topics together in a virtual space, no matter their location. Now upmystreet.com, the site that provides you with various statistics about your neighbourhood, is trying to turn that on its head, and bring people together based on their physical location.In their new forums service, you type in your postcode, and it shows you all the discussions taking place about things happening in your location. The forums are in beta (test) phase at the moment, and are not hugely populated with users, so you might find there's not much happening near you... yet. But it's an interesting concept - especially for areas which lack their own community - based portals or chat sites.http://forums.upmystreet.comSigns of peaceIf you're pro peace, or just anti-war, make sure your message is heard in the virtual world as well as the real one - download the "peace packs" for the Sims game being published by a group called Tiny Signs of Hope. They have a big range of peace posters, lovingly drawn and described. Take, for instance, the Attack Iraq? NO! bumper sticker: "Framed and ready to hang," says the site, "your radical Sims will gaze lovingly at this   item as they prepare to engage in tiny acts of war resistance".www.downloadpeace.com/tinySneak viewGeorge Clooney fans will be flocking to download the trailer of Confessions of a Dangerous Mind, the first film Clooney has ever directed. Confessions is based on the autobiography of game show producer Chuck Barris, who created the Gong Show, and sports an all-star cast. Sam Rockwell is in the lead role, with Julia Roberts, Drew Barrymore and Clooney himself appearing alongside. Hopefully the trailer won't make you too keen to see the film - it's not due to open in the UK until next year. Meanwhile, film-buff site Aint-it- cool-news has lots of links to leaked information now online about the forthcoming X-MEN2.www.miramax.com/confessionswww.aintitcool.com/displaySpeed browseOnlineblog.com readers will know I've been quite taken with a little web browser called Chimera of late. It's a cut-down, super-fast bit of software being developed as part of the Mozilla open source effort. While it is only at version 0.5 (which means it's still being developed, and has a few rough edges) it runs very well on Mac OS X 10.2. And blog readers have suggested Windows users check out the Phoenix broswer, which is a similarly fast and clutter free broswer for PCs .www.mozilla.org/projects/chimerawww.mozilla.org/projects/phoenixBeggars beliefGot a bit much on your credit cards? Worried about how to finance Christmas (yes, only two months to go now)? You could always follow the enterprising lead of Karyn, of Save Karyn fame, who has set up a website begging virtual passers-by for help.Karyn, a New Yorker in her late 20s, has produced a 21st-century version of those begging ads in the back of Private Eye. Here, as there, there's no shame in the simple aim to "together... banish debt from my life".The amazing thing is she claims it is all working for her: from having a $20,000 debt in the summer, she had it down to $1,664 this week. Through donations via the website and her own efforts to sell things on eBay, Karyn is on track to banish debt from her life within the month.What happens to her site then? She intends to "pass the bucks" to someone else who needs to be "saved" from their debt - so get your sob story in    order, and form a queue.www.savekaryn.comNew &amp; noted&#183;Headlines, at a glance:www.newsglance.co.uk&#183;Completely fake headlines:http://newzoid.com/nzheadline combo.asp&#183;Kylie versus Dannii:www.princessofpop.co.ukSix of the bestBritish Motor ShowShow homewww.motorshow.co.ukNew Bentleywww.rolls-royceandbentley.co.ukJames Bond's Jaguarwww.jaguar.com/ukPistonheadswww.pistonheads.comBritain's ugliest carswww.uglycars.co.ukAnanova Motoring newshttp://makeashorterlink.com
Neighbours in a global village? Hmm... not quite. FromWired News: "More than 30,000 employees at Indian call centers, among whom Radhika becomes Ruth and Satish becomes Steve, are told to adopt American names and say they are calling from a U.S. city in order to put their American customers at ease."Better still, further down: "One young call center employee at TransWorks almost lost his job after telling a customer during a call that was monitored by his supervisor, 'You will be intimated soon.'"
Last week, a bunch of European journalists gathered at the Langham Hilton in London for a full day's workshop based on Microsoft's Smartphone 2002 software, which is based on the PocketPC software suite. We left clutching slightly-unfinished Orange SPV phones with no manuals. Jorgen Sungdot, from Norway, has now posted the first reviewhere. We'll be covering Smartphone 2002 and Microsoft's strategy in Online tomorrow.
Microsoft is continuing its US campaign to woo Mac users to Microsoft Office, and other features are on the way, saysPC World. Microsoft remains the Mac's biggest supporter, and an Apple shareholder.
If you noticed any disruption on Monday, could it have been the result of adenial of service attackon the net's DNS servers?The Washington Post,ReutersandInfoworldtell the story. The FBI is reportedly "addressing" the issue, though it is not clear what you could do to the sort of people responsible. Suggestions?
It's well worth skimming this ZDNet piece on Search King'slegal action against Googlefor the insight it gives into the cat-and-mouse game that goes on -- and always has gone on -- behind the scenes.
A website that offers to write MBA assignments was today condemned by leading business schools.Elizabeth Hall Associates, widely criticised for providing "model" answers to undergraduates, has expanded its services into the lucrative MBA market. MBA Rescue will produce assignments written to order at a cost of £50 per hour.Dr Jikyeong Kang, director of the full-time MBA programme at Manchester business school, said the service was "absolutely appalling" and called for it to be shut down.Candidates pay thousands of pounds to undertake an MBA, often while working full or part-time. MBA graduates can often enjoy substantial salary increases.The service claims on its website it can provide candidates "with tutorial support and the writing of academic papers to make sure your investment &#91;in the MBA&#93; is safe. We can partially or completely write those academic course requirements that you find impossible to fit into your already heavy schedule. With an MBA the sky's the limit - but how do you get airborne?"Dr Kang said online plagiarism was an ongoing issue for all academics. She said Manchester had been piloting the use of anti-plagiarism software to act as a deterrent to students and runs courses on how to avoid being accused of plagiarism."We run courses on referencing and on what is considered plagiarism. People are not always blatantly trying to cheat, but they don't always realise what is good practice and when short cuts might become plagiarism," she said.Peter Calladine, education services manager of the Association of MBAs, said: "The problem is that it's not strictly illegal. And it is increasing across the board. All academic establishments are active in trying to solve this."Elizabeth Hall today declined to comment on her company's services, but on her website she insists that the service is legitimate and stresses that "the decision to submit the work is yours alone". Students are also asked to sign a disclaimer acknowledging that any work submitted was for model guidance only.David Buck, academic registrar at Cranfield, home of one of Britain's most respected business schools, said he was well aware of the problem, and specifically of Elizabeth Hall."We are concerned about these services such as Ms Hall's. We hope that students wouldn't do this. It's disingenuous to think that her service is just for revision," he said.Ms Hall retired from her lecturer post at the University of Central England, Birmingham, in 1996. Since then, several academics at the university have expressed concern about her activities, although she no longer has a connection with the university.
When we switched Onlineblog over to a design that uses cascading style sheets (CSS), we had to accept that some older browsers wouldn't be able to look at it any more. That's why there's a message in the top right hand corner of this screen about it looking better in newer versions. However, I think I much prefer Mac weblogDaring Fireball's comments on the issue:"If Daring Fireball looks like shit in your browser, you're using a shitty browser that doesn't support web standards. Netscape 4, we're looking in your direction. If you complain about this, we will laugh at you, because we do not care. If, however, you are using a modern, standards-compliant browser and have trouble viewing or reading Daring Fireball, please do let us know."Couldn't put it better myself...
Good to see that Apple and IDG, organisers of the twice-annual MacExpos in the US, areagreeingto open talks on the future of the shows - rather than threaten to walk out on each other. At one point last week, it seems, Apple was ready to quit the US east coast show, and IDG was ready to bar Apple from January's San Francisco show. Amazing, really. No sensible conference organiser would bar the one company around which a major show revolves - and no computer company in its right mind would knock back the huge PR opportunity that are the MacWorld shows. But, as has been pointed out many times in the past, Apple is not necessarily always a computer company in its right mind...
The internet industry has refused to sign up to plans to give law enforcement and intelligence agencies access to the records of British web and email users, throwing David Blunkett's post-September 11 data surveillance regime into fresh disarray.In the latest of a long line of setbacks for the home secretary's data retention campaign, the Guardian has learned that internet service providers have told the Home Office that they will not voluntarily stockpile the personal records of their customers for long periods so that they can be accessed by police or intelligence officers.Nicholas Lansman, secretary general of the Internet Service Providers Association, wrote to officials last month informing them that the industry had not been convinced that extending the length of time companies hold on to customer logs was necessary for the fight against terrorism and serious crime.The letter, which has been seen by the Guardian, makes clear the depth of concern among web companies over the privacy and cost implications of retaining subscriber information.Mr Lansman said that service providers were "rightly concerned" that retaining communications data beyond normal business practices may be unlawful. A paper produced by law enforcement agencies had failed to address these concerns or make a "compelling case" for data retention."The document fails to provide details of the number of investigations that are currently compromised through lack of available data and assess whether this is detrimental to the public interest and national security. The investigations citedrefer to cases in which officers sought data older than 15 months and where there was no national security consideration involved," he wrote.Industry representatives and Whitehall officials have been struggling to agree terms of a voluntary code of practice introduced under the anti-terrorism legislation rushed through parliament last No vember in the aftermath of the attacks on the US. The apparent collapse of the negotiations may leave Mr Blunkett facing a choice between using his reserved powers under the legislation to force internet prov-iders to comply or dropping the measure in response to public and political opposition.The data to be retained includes customers' names and addresses, source and destination of emails and addresses of websites visited, all of which would be available to the authorities without need for a judicial or executive warrant.Telephone providers are also being asked to retain records of calls made and received as well as mobile phone location data.In July, the information commissioner, the official privacy watchdog, warned the Home Office that data retention might breach the Human Rights Act because communications logs retained strictly for national security purposes could be accessed by police and intelligence officers investigating cases such as public health and tax collection.The Home Office has refused to amend the legislation to resolve this conflict. As a result, Mr Lansman said, the association could not "recommend to members that they voluntarily comply with the proposed code of practice".Mr Blunkett has the power to make the code mandatory. In the Guardian last month, John Abbott, director general of the national criminal intelligence service, said all communications companies should be compelled to stockpile customer logs.Last night, Home Office insiders dismissed suggestions that the voluntary code was dead in the water. But human rights campaigners said Mr Blunkett now had little choice but to think again.Ian Brown, director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, said: "Civil society, Europe's data protection commissioners, and now internet service providers have all told the Home Office their data retention plans are an unacceptable invasion of privacy."John Wadham, director of Liberty, said: "Service providers are right to raise concerns."
If you use Mac OSX and fancy checking out alternatives to MS Internet Explorer, giveChimeraa shot. I'm using it at the moment, and am finding it a good-looking program that's blisteringly fast. It's certainly better than the fullMozillafor my needs, and I'd say its speed - alone - is enough to have me considering making it my first choice browser. There are a few minor user interface issues that need tackled - like you need to open the sidebar to properly organise bookmarks - but it's looking very promising for a piece of software that's only at 0.5 (beta) stage. It's a free 7.3Mb download.
Mitch Kapor, who got hugely rich from Lotus 1-2-3, is setting up an Open Source Application Foundation to developChandler, an "Interpersonal Information Manager'' to challenge Microsoft Outlook. Nice to see converts to the cause. Some of us can remember when Lotus was attacking software houses with"look and feel"lawsuits, and Richard Stallman, the founder of the Free Software Foundation and the free software movement, was marching up and down outside the Louts HQ, sorry, Lotus HQ, with placards. What a pity the light didn't dawn 10 to 20 years ago when Lotus was charging huge sums for its proprietary software! Still, it will be nice to see Chandler. Let's hope it is better than Lotus Organizer (which Lotus bought from Threadz, a small British company),Lotus Agenda, which flopped horribly, and Lotus Notes 4.5, which is one of the nastiest bits of client software I have ever had the misfortune to be forced to use.
StatMarketreckons Windows XP (20%) is now the second biggest oeprating system on the Web, after Windows 98 (37%). but will overtake it in a few months.
As predicted here, Dell has regained top spot asthe world's biggest PC manufacturer, having been briefly overtaken by the combination of Compaq and Hewlett-Packard. Both companies shipped about 5 million PCs in the quarter but Dell shipped about 200,000 more. IBM came third, followed by Fujitsu-Siemens (big in Europe), and NEC (big in Japan, but it also owns Packard Bell). IDC's figures arehere
Software giant Microsoft has bucked the trend in the battered technology sector by reporting a doubling of profits from a year ago.Underlining its superior performance in the hi-tech industry, the world's largest computer company said profits for the July to September period came in at $2.7bn (£1.7bn), beating analysts' forecasts by 8%.This was more than double the $1.2bn in profits for the same period last year. Results were boosted by a new licensing program that locks customers into multi-year agreements for updating software.Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, has expressed regret for upsetting customers with the tactic, but it nevertheless helped the company sell more software than ever before during the severe hi-tech downturn.Microsoft's strong results contrast with those of its competitors. Earlier in the week, for example, Intel, the world's largest chip maker reported worse than expected results. But Microsoft warned investors the quarter was an anomaly and such dramatic growth is not likely to happen again soon.Microsoft this week overtook General Electric, the conglomerate, as the world's most valuable company by stock market value.
Microsoft's first quarter revenues jumped 27 per cent to $7.75 billion, andprofits more than doubledto $2.73 billion, in spite of a write-off of $291 million against weak investments.The earnings boost came from "higher-than-expected enrollment in new, subscription-like licensing plans" that aroused widely-reported hostility from some customers, and blockbuster sales of Windows XP, which has sold 67 million copies. XP Home is more expensive than Windows Me, though much cheaper than earlier versions of Windows NT. Sales of Windows server software also grew by 14%. The main drawback with these results is that they are unlikely to be repeated. Microsoft put another $2 billion in the bank, taking itscash pileto $40.5 billion.
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris5Current Topic:Direct rule from Westminster was once again imposed on Ulster this week following allegations of spying by the IRA. With power-sharing suspended for the forseeable future, are hopes for lasting peace in Northern Ireland now fading?  What do you think?LadeezMan:its ten times fasterBronco:oh reallyzzzzzzzzzzzzcapitalistpiglet:I don't think we should be too pessimisticLadeezMan:I can download huge files in seconds*Pashmina has entered the NewsRoom*capitalistpiglet:after all, power-sharing has been suspended before. Hi pashBronco:yo pashLadeezMan:and best of all its ALWAYS onPashmina:LadeezMan you still in ereBronco:yes make him stopLadeezMan:I'm ALWAYS in here bcause I have BROADBANDPashmina:we KNOWcapitalistpiglet:I think if Sinn Fein strikes a deal w the unionists the assembly will be back in time for the May electionsLadeezMan:I got internet 24/7!Pashmina:that dont mean u have to chat 24/7Bronco:he's been awake for 36 hrsLadeezMan:If I want I can chat &amp; ring people at the same time!Pashmina:yes well doneBronco:too bad u got no freindscapitalistpiglet:odd as it seems, this suspension might well mark the beginning of a new level of trustPashmina:piglet who u talkin toLadeezMan:ur jealous of my speedcapitalistpiglet:Chris2Bronco:Chris2 aint in hereLadeezMan:Im downloading a movie of a monkey drinking his pee right nowBronco:seen itcapitalistpiglet:whos the moderator then?LadeezMan:done alreadyBronco:Chris5Pashmina:oh noHost_Chris5:whatcapitalistpiglet:just discussing the suspension of power-sharing in NIHost_Chris5:finePashmina:Chris5 you are the host so HOSTHost_Chris5:Im updating my CVLadeezMan:I been on here for two days and you aint done nothing  *LadeezMan has been kicked out of the NewsRoom*Host_Chris5:anybody else need helpPashmina:no thanx we will disscuss the topic betwen ourselfsHost_Chris5:dont bother me againBronco:I like himcapitalistpiglet:pash, is a gesture on decommissioning called for?Pashmina:dont even try piglet&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
BroadsidesI sympathise with Mike Lee, who points out the plight of users in "semi-rural" areas who are left for dead by BT, never to have high-speed access due to poor planning and a lack of any foresight on BT's part when laying wires from their exchanges (Feedback, October 10). While I live less than three miles from our exchange, BT has laid the wires horizontally across our area so many times that we are well beyond broadband's 4.5 mile limit.On the basis of a few one-man campaigns I've launched in the past year, it has been more or less confirmed that I am of no priority to BT, nor shall I ever have broadband access on my property - at least not during the remaining 95 years or so of my leasehold.Though BT remains optimistic about a satellite service, it was said at the time that, if available, the installation would be upwards of &#163;800 with about a &#163;129 monthly fee - not at all   reasonable for the home user.Lee should take heart, though, as at least he lives "on the fringes" of Greater Manchester.I live five minutes from Canary Wharf and wonder every day why I ever bothered to move to this "semi-rural" capital city. After my head exploded while discussing this with BT representatives, my doctor now advises me not to get too worked up about it.Sean O'Neilseanoneil_66@yahoo.comWhy not me?Mike Lee has hit the nail on the head. I live just three miles from the centre of Carlisle and can I get broadband? Nope, my phone line is just 1,500 metres too long. It gets worse. A cable TV company started installing the cables along my road and when they were within 200 yards of my house, they went bust! What do I have to do to get broadband?Yoav Tzabaryoav@tzabar.orgNo alternativeI live just five miles out of Cambridge, yet my village has a problem getting broadband. My exchange is broadband-enabled, and I live close enough to the exchange. So why the misery? I am connected to the exchange by optic fibre. Obviously, this means I can't have an ADSL connection, but one would expect some sort of alternative as we keep being told how fibre is ideal for broadband and ADSL is just a replacement to coax the most out of ageing infrastructure. Several calls to BT have yielded no information on when such a service might be available.  If broadband over fibre is beyond the capabilities of the largest telco in this country, then it is no wonder it is slipping down the broadband league table.Ben Yeatsbenyeats@tiscali.co.ukAirPortRe Port Problem (Feedback, October 10): a broadband line terminated with an Ethernet modem or router is needed for David Jones to get his iMac/AirPort combination working - the AirPort's modem port won't work directly with ADSL and he needs to use the Ethernet WAN port (I'm assuming he has the newer, dual-Ethernet, model). Several ADSL providers offer this andwww.adslguide.org.ukis a good place to look for information.Another option would be to take a wires-only ADSL service and buy a suitable modem or router, which may work out cheaper - but this requires more technical knowledge. However, some providers offer wires-only and also sell suitable equipment, and it should be possible to find one with support   people who understand what's involved. Blueyonder (Telewest) and NTL also offer Ethernet termination of their cable internet services.Pete Clark(email address supplied)Footie 3GWhat no one seems to realise about 3G is that no one will want to pay for football clips streamed to a two-inch square screen, or news broadcasts, etc. Even my more football-obsessed friends agree: text message updates are enough.If you look at the killer apps for all previous technology, communication between two people, point to point, has been the driving factor. With phones, it was talking to the other person at long distances; with the internet, it was/is email; with mobiles, it was text messaging. This one-to-one communication has driven prices down.The same applies to broadband. Do I want to pay &#163;30 a month plus &#163;10 to stream a low-quality, jerky movie on to my 17" monitor, or would I prefer to spend &#163;3.50 to hire it? The only "content" broadband supplies that is worth paying for is gaming, which, again, is more fun with the instant messaging features of Counter-strike.When I get 3G, I'll want it for two things: talking face to face with my girlfriend/family/friends with videophoning, and connecting my laptop to the net at high speed, so I can send emails and browse news sites on a decent size screen.Initially, 3G will offer this at far too high a price or, in the case of videophoning, not at all. So why buy?Owen Evansowen.evans@7c.net
Unreal Tournament 2003P&#163;34.99 Epic/Atari		*****Those whose knees are not inclined to jerk know how valuable first-person shoot-'em-ups can be in venting pent-up aggression.  If you know how to play them properly, that is. Such games as Unreal Tournament 2003, with no single-player "story mode", can seem impenetrable to casual gamers.But the game over  comes that with a novice mode that hardcore gamers will deride. However, seasoned gamers will find that Unreal Tournament elevates this story-free, first-person shooter (as invented by Quake III Arena) to new heights.It is the first such game to have a coherent structure in single-player mode: you must work your way up four game mode ladders, of which Death Match and Capture The Flag are familiar, while Double Domination and Bombing Run are not.In Double Domination, your team must control two points at opposite ends of a level for 10 seconds to score, while Bombing Run apes Rollerball, with a ball that can be passed between team-mates; whoever carries it loses their weaponry. Both new modes demand teamwork. But its graphics, level design, beautifully realised weaponry and powerful Level Editor render it the new king of first-person shoot-'em-ups. For the hairy-chested brigade, this is the release of the year.(SB)Burnout 2: Point of ImpactPS2 £39.99 Criterion/Acclaim ****Fiddling under the bonnet, tinkering with the tyres. Burnout      2 offers none of this. Instead, this is a racing game for speed freaks, where realism is thrown out the window, replaced by      insanely fast driving and crashes that would scare the toughest crash-test dummies. The aim is to drive as dangerously      and as irresponsibly as possible.There are no characters or lengthy cut-scenes and definitely no story. Fancy speeding      crazily at 160mph into incoming traffic? No problem. How about swerving into log-jammed vehicles, intent on causing a      spectacular pileup? Again, it's the name of the game. Even the tutorial, usually a leisurely introduction to the action, gets      straight to the violent point, instructing how to raise your speed meter by avoiding traffic by a few centimetres.Take      more and more risks and eventually you'll be able to do a burnout - essen tially the ability to drive at a manic speed for a      short amount of time. But, perhaps wary of the initial rush wearing off, the developers have included numerous cars and      tracks to unlock, ready to use after you win races. Burnout 2 is a big improvement on the original. The graphics are      markedly better, while the annoying delay in returning to the track after a crash has been reduced.If you prefer a slower      paced, deeper driving simulation, stick to Gran Turismo. But, if the reflexes can take it, Burnout 2 is a chaotically      enjoyable slice of automobile insanity. (GH)Quantum RedshiftXbox £44.99 Microsoft ****With a name as dynamic as this, you'd expect it to be one heck of a racing      game, and, in the main, it is. Set in 16 futuristic-looking tracks with a choice of 18 drivers, there is a lot of racing to be      done.First impressions are of a Wipeout clone that lacks the responsiveness. Stick with it, however, and you find a game      that is well thought out and almost perfectly executed. The cars are also of the hovering variety, handling like a cross      between Wipeout's speed bikes and the pod racers from Star Wars Episode 1.They seem sluggish, but once you get the hang      of the courses, you begin to shave seconds off each pass. With parts of some courses submerged, you can also try out a      variety of techniques; some craft respond better to skimming the water than hugging the track. There are occasional leaps,      although these are not as enjoyable as you would imagine.There are short cuts in most levels, but your five CPU rivals      always take the shortest path, so you soon start following the pack. However, such quibbles are forgotten in the blitz of      gimmicks the game throws at you, including highly effective water droplets that obscure your windscreen on watery levels.      And there are weapons.Although there are only two categories, you can upgrade them as you progress through the leagues,      making up to 150 combinations. The game also rewards you with Easter eggs - hidden graphic modes that are unlocked as      complete tournaments. Redshift is an accomplished race game. It is enormous fun, but not quite as good as Wipeout. (MA)
Owners of Sony Aibo robotic pets will be able to buy them aSpeedboard, a sort of skateboard, next month.
When station announcers started calling us customers, we knew the railways were in trouble. Now the government is starting to use the same language. Should we be even more worried?        Not necessarily. If IT is to make any real difference to the running of public services, government agencies will have to borrow some practices from the better sort of commercial call centre. In particular, the person handling your inquiry, transaction or complaint should be able to view your case history. He should know, at least, that you're the same Ms Patel of 42 Acacia Tower who called three times yesterday about the lifts.Programs to do this job - glorified databases, really - are called customer relationship management (CRM) systems. Commercially, they have been hot property since call centres took off in the mid 1990s.In the current downturn, CRM suppliers - a directory published this year by specialist consultancy Hewson listed 38 of them - are aiming at government. In the words of another consultancy, Accenture, it says CRM "allows government to dramatically improve its relationship with its customers through re-organising services around customer intentions."The snag is that commercial CRM systems are spectacularly unsuited to government, especially local authorities, which run most public services.First, most of our dealings with government are even less voluntary than those with commercial call centres. People  queueing up at a housing benefit counter or paying a parking ticket are not customers in any normal sense of the term.Some suppliers try to get around that problem by renaming their products "citizen relationship management", which even allows them to recycle the abbreviated term. But a local authority's "customers" include local businesses and geographical locations as well as citizens. That concept is alien to most commercial CRM systems.Another problem is the sheer range of services a local authority runs. CRM systems are generally designed to pull information out of a single corporate database. Local authorities have dozens, handling information on everything from wasps' nests to swimming pools.Finally, there is cost. Many commercial CRM systems were designed for large companies and carry million-pound price tags.This is five times the amount local authorities are due to receive for e-government in the current public spending round.All this means that commercial CRM systems must be heavily customised before they are suitable for local government. One authority wrestling with the problem is the London Borough of Brent. With &#163;1 million funding from central government, it has developed a CRM system based on one from a US firm, Onyx. Under the deal, other local authorities can order the Brent system at prices starting from &#163;25,000.Brent has installed the system at six "one-stop shops" set up to handle transactions with citizens and businesses. The  system gives staff access to general council information and is gradually being connected to specialist databases: the first to go on the system is street care, which manages data on abandoned vehicles, road sweeping and street lighting. In the past, says Dane Wright, Brent's service development manager, this information was available only to the council's street-care team. Front line staff would have no idea if a complaint was already being dealt with.Other "back office" systems will be added as technical and, in some cases legal, problems are resolved. Councils are not allowed to use their council tax records for other purposes.        Eventually, the aim is for Brent residents to be able to use the CRM system themselves, logging in from a website. Here, the  problem - as with many e-government schemes - is how to prove the user's identity.Although Brent has gone a lot further than most local authorities, it is still a long way from the all-integrated CRM system we  take for granted at banks and other businesses. Wright stresses that, whatever CRM suppliers claim, the IT itself is not a magic wand. At Brent, the important step was first to set up one-stop shops and give them the power to handle different kinds of problems. "If you don't have the organisational structure to deal with customers in the round, you might as well stick with lots of little IT systems."As the railway operators discovered, there is no point in calling people customers if you still treat them like sheep.
In the first in an occasional series, here's a gem from the latest edition of Critical Care Medicine, which is always a regular read around Online towers: "Des Plaines, IL, October 16, 2002 -- Sleep deprived physicians are negatively affected in terms of alertness, well-being and thinking skills, according to the authors of a study... the data shows that a short period of sleep (nap) will reverse some of the tiredness and drowsiness associated with lack of sleep." You can read the full, startling resultshere.
Just when I thought the Flashturbators were dying out, with their clunky navigation and those intrusive intros that couldn't get more tedious, we find ourselves inflicted with something far more insidious.I'm talking about the move online towards what is called beyond-the-banner advertising. If you have spent any time online recently, you can't fail to have experienced either a Pop-up (where a new   window pops up in front), interstitial (an ad that appears between two pages), superstitial (where all of a sudden the page starts screaming at you for a few seconds). The other generic term for this is Rich Media - possibly because it enables a deeper online experience, possibly because only rich people can afford to do them.As a reasonable individual, I don't really care what people do in their own homes - if they want to paint their walls orange and green with pink linoleum, then go for it. However, I do have issues when it's forced on the other people. Imagine a mandatory psychedelic version of Home Front enforced by landlords and executed by colour-blind accountants.Around three people in every thousand click on more traditional, passive banners - five years ago it would have been 30. The decline of the humble banner is often attributed to "wear out" - that is to say, regular internet users get so used to seeing them that they tune them out. This goes some way to explain why the industry as a whole has embraced these new forms of interruptive advertising, which do tend to be more effective.Simply put, as the technology becomes more advanced, there are more opportunities to scream, shout and turn your web browser upside down - anything to get your attention.I'm not saying the technology is bad: technology is always morally agnostic and great things can be done with it. However, like a gun in the wrong hands, the results can be deadly (also slow, boring and irritating).So is it the fault of web designers that there is so much of this rubbish out there? Partly, but like everything, it's all a bit grey. Web designers are simply paid to do a job: more often than not, someone on high has seen one of these things and the "me, too" mentality kicks in, not unlike Flash intros.For another part of the answer, you must look to the media owners. These are the corporations who own the big websites, whose income is generally based on the amount of online advertising sold. So desperate are they to part the clients from their online media money that they are willing to do pretty much anything to keep them happy. This is a very different story from a few years ago during the internet "boom", when there was far more money   than sense and people were investing massively online. How many new "Ad units" can we define? How many new standards can we create?Often "media buyers" are as much to blame. These are the people who make the deals for the advertising space with the media owners and it's their responsibility to make sure the right people see the right advertising. Although these new forms should be more effective than banners, they are significantly more expensive to create and buy, and the final results are often the same. What isn't advertised is that Rich Media = Awards and we all like awards.Finally, at least a little of the blame must go to the clients, the proverbial hand that feeds. It is dangerous to assume that clients know what they are doing when it comes to online advertising. Unlike most media, online is a maze of buzzwords and bad   advice, and clients are often too easily impressed. If you are just trying to impress your boss, fine, but please don't inflict it on the poor public if you don't mean it!Having been forced to endure a great deal of beyond the banner advertising, I have had enough. Banners were bad, but at least they didn't get completely in the way of what you were doing. You had to try to come up with some kind of advertising idea. Now it's just the same old stuff flying around the screen. All it seems to be saying is: "Look at me I'm flying!" I don't know about you, but I'm worn out already.I strongly feel we must start thinking before we act, spend more time worrying about how to attract customers to our brands, not simply distract them from their work. Interruption isn't always necessarily good communication, and if you are not scared yet, wait until you see what they are bringing to a mobile phone near you!&#183;Jon Bains is chairman of online agencyLateral.&#183;Comments to online.feedback @guardian.co.uk
Wires are for losers. This much is clear. From office-wide networks being installed in big corporations, to coffee-shop setups and community wireless groups, this year has seen the real maturation of wireless networking. It's easy, and it's good, and for the first time, it is now cheap to do.The wireless standard to go for is called Wi-Fi - or 802.11b for the really geeky among us. The most basic Wi-Fi equipment will beam your internet connection around 100 metres through open air, so you can sit at the bottom of your garden with your laptop and still be online. Connecting your machine wirelessly to one another or, more importantly, to the internet, requires two bits of kit - the part that goes into your computer and a base station. We'll start with the base station.Base stations are tricky when it comes to wireless networking. Which one you get depends on what you need to do. You might not need one at all: if you live or work in a place already serviced by someone else's wireless network - whether it be your company, a commercial operation or a free-to-all community network - all you need is the adaptor in your machine.But most of us need to place a base station between ourselves and the internet. One of the earliest, and still the prettiest of these, is the   Apple AirPort base station. It costs about &#163;250, and includes a dialup modem to connect to the outside world. You can also plug in a cable or ADSL modem using its Ethernet socket. Running on the Wi-Fi standard, you don't need to be using an Apple computer to connect to it, but you will need to borrow one to set it up.Because of this, it's perhaps not the greatest choice for a Windows user. No problem: Netgear do a nice version - again with a   built-in gateway (see below) - for about &#163;130. Without the gateway, both D-Link and 3Com's access points are very nifty. Look to spend no more than &#163;130 for those, with perhaps an additional &#163;100 for a box to connect it to your broadband adaptor. You can do this for less, and there are links to instructions in the box below.As I said previously, base-stations are increasingly being taken out of the hands of the consumers - some ISPs are even planning on offering   them as part of your subscription, and installing them for you. In cities, especially London, open public networks are increasingly common, and commercial operations are now finding their feet here - a year or two after proving themselves in the US.So, the most important thing is the wireless adaptor for your laptop. Given their shape and size, these are called cards.Wireless cards are increasingly easy to find on the high street. The more geeky com puter shops have been doing a roaring trade - Tottenham Court Road in London is full of such places - or you can use an online store like Dabs.com or Microanvika.co.uk. Either way, you need to know what you're getting.Apple Mac users - desktop or laptop - should buy the Apple AirPort card. PC laptop users should look for the magic letters PCMCIA to find something that can fit into the card-expansion slots in the side of your machine. To be honest, these are all much   the same - Netgear, 3com, D-Link, Lucent and others make, or rebadge, good products. Beware of the latest products that proclaim much greater range. Unless you're buying one of these with a matching base station, the greater range will do you no good. Expect to pay around &#163;60 for a laptop card.Not as many people connect their desktop PCs wirelessly, but it is not hard to do. Many suppliers offer wireless expansion cards that fit into a PC's PCI slot. Actiontec.com makes a nice one for about &#163;55. Linksys does another for &#163;76. Some people use PCMCIA-to-PCI converter cards, which allow a notebook PC Card to be slotted into the back of a desktop machine.As long as you follow their instructions, installation is no problem.The gateway to a hidden worldIf you want to set up a wireless network at home, probably in conjunction with some broadband access, this could be a bit trickier, and possibly a bit naughtier, than doing it within an office.In the early days of the internet, each computer had a unique "address" - a number that identified it to all the others. To send a message, an email, say, to another machine, you just had to know that number and the gubbins in the middle would route the email to its destination.Routing happens automatically every time you get any data from the net. However, if every machine on the net has its own address from the range of possible numbers, we soon run out of them. So networking engineers came up with a clever trick: network address translation. With this, machines talk to the internet via a gateway. This   gateway is the only machine to have a proper address on the internet itself and is dedicated to remembering who, on the inside, asked for what, and delivering the right response to the right machine.So, for example, the Guardian could have perhaps a thousand computers inside its offices, but only one actually on the internet. The others hide behind it, and the network passes their internet requests via this gateway.This is how internet service providers work. You connect to the internet via a gateway that assigns you your own internal   address.But many ISPs do not like you to connect more than one machine to your broadband connection: they either refuse to give you more than one address, or will charge "business rates".With a wireless network, this is a pain, as it really takes away all the fun. You want to be able to introduce more machines to your internet connection, and have them on at the same time. To do this, with an uncooperative ISP, you need to run your own gateway. This assigns every machine on your network an internal address, but pretends to the outside world that there is really only one, albeit one that really,   really likes the internet. It's technically against the terms and conditions of many ISP agreements, but may be very difficult to detect.Wireless gateways, therefore, can come in two flavours. Those that are just glorified radios, for plugging into a gateway machine, which, in turn, is plugged into the broadband socket, and those that have the gateway already built into it.Built-in gateways add quite a bit to the price, and aren't really necessary. The more adventurous can build their own using an old 486 machine, two network cards and a floppy disk. Details of how to do this are available from the internet. When building my own, I found the following particularly helpful:Linkswww.oreillynet.com/pub/a/wireless/2001/03/06/recipe.htmlhttp://leaf.sourceforge.net/devel/cstein
Text messages are breathing life into a medium that needs it - TV. They are providing the interactivity once promised, but never really delivered, on set-top boxes.Text messaging (or SMS) is making TV ads more interactive, too. This month, the first UK television ad with SMS as the only direct response mechanism was broadcast. The ad, for Gossard G-strings, generated 20,000 replies.Research company GartnerG2 says: "SMS interaction with television programmes is set to double in the next year, following the trend set by I'm a Celebrity Get me Out of Here and Big Brother 3."Nevertheless, Gossard was taking a risk when it decided not to put a phone number on its ad. Instead, viewers are invited to text G4me to 80125. Texters receive a message asking them to SMS their name and address in return for a voucher providing &#163;1 off a g-string. Shireen Mackenzie, marketing manager of Gossard, says: "We have exceeded our target of a 1% response and had to go back into production."The campaign, by agency  WARL and text message marketers Flytxt, was designed to create a dialogue with customers and potential customers. Says Mackenzie: "Attitudes to buying lingerie have changed. It's not just about covering up a part of a woman's anatomy or impressing boyfriends. It is now an impulse purchase for women to treat themselves."But we wanted to know more about our customers. A questionnaire arrives with the voucher and we will probably send a follow-up text asking if they want to be kept updated on other offers."Using SMS to interact with TV took off with ratings successes such as Big Brother 3, where viewers could send premium-rate SMSs to vote off contestants. During Big Brother 3, 10.7m SMSs were sent, according to Hugh Griffiths, director of portals and content at O2 Online.But Libby Pritchard, a spokeswoman for Vodafone, believes we are about to see programmes built around messaging. Texting is also being used in conjunction with radio. Capital Radio listeners, for example, can get a copy of the music playlist by text.Simple text messaging could also form an important part of such serious TV programmes as Question Time, with viewers voting on an issue, or choosing what should go in the second half of a magazine-format programme such as Tonight with Trevor McDonald.Alison Bonny, of Virgin Mobile, says: "Viewers often SMS friends during reality TV shows and this interaction increases the programme's hold." This could increase with 3G, the next generation mobile technology. "Viewers could vote for their favourite on Popstars, and receive a thank-you video-SMS," forecasts Bonny."Interactivity through cable or digital set-top boxes is also taking off, with voting in opinion polls and for awards a popular use." TVgate, an Israeli company owned by multimedia messaging company Comverse, is working on interaction between mobiles and TV, and set-top boxes and television. Ezra Mizrahi, vice president of product management at TVgate, says users can watch a programme in one corner of the TV, while participating in a chat group about the programme on the rest. They will also be able to send text messages from their TV or mobile phone and get the replies back to their TV.Sky Interactive has recently added two-way SMS to its TV service, using technology from telecoms company Thus. Heidi Bruckland says: "Viewers can text questions to Sky News' breakfast edition and use their remote control to see what other viewers have texted."But the move towards greater interactivity could change TV in fundamental ways. For example, if viewers are to be able to influence content, there would probably need to be more live programming."A TV audience could even influence the outcome of a soap opera," predicts Pamir Gelenbe, business development director of Flytxt. Griffiths, who used to be in interactive TV, believes SMS has succeeded where set-top boxes failed because less investment is needed.TV stations can use a third-party messaging platform, such as 02's, to offer voting and don't need to cater for rival interactive TV standards. And viewers don't have to invest in pay TV services. Aerodeon, a text marketing company that worked on the live Joy of Text TV special and the Mattel dolls ad with SMS response (and internet response) says: "SMS has a much greater potential for TV than simply charging viewers for the privilege of voting."With the money to be made, it is likely that new life will be breathed into some tired TV formats. GartnerG2 says SMS messaging from mobile phones has overtaken internet use for the first time in Europe and audience participation in TV programmes is one of the major growth areas, attracting 5-10 %of all European mobile users.
Ig digsThe presentations that the scientific world has been waiting for were made earlier this month: the annual Ig Nobel Awards, presented by the Annals of Improbable Research. The Ig Nobel for Chemistry was awarded to Theo Gray for his wonderful Wooden Periodic Table Table, a four-legged version of Dimitri Mendeleev's work.www.improbable.com/ig/ig-top.htmlwww.theodoregray.com/PeriodicTableDeaf showArt and design students need a specialised vocabulary, and jargon is even harder to handle in sign language. ArtSigns provides a dictionary of 1,268 signs. Most are illustrated with QuickTime or Windows Media clips. The site was developed for Wolverhampton University's School of Art &amp; Design and unveiled during National Sign Language Awareness Week. One minor complaint: the site says that "PCs may have Windows Media Player and QuickTime installed but Macs only support QuickTime". This is wrong. Windows Media Player is available for Mac OS and the Unix-based OS X.www.artsigns.ac.ukwww.microsoft.com/macLearn hereMassachusetts Institute of Technology plans to make its courseware available on the web "for the good of mankind". The pilot site opened on September 30, and the university is now looking for feedback. MIT is following an open source model and anyone is free to use the materials, but cannot repackage and sell them. Also, no matter how much courseware you complete, you won't get an MIT degree without attending and paying the $26,960 undergraduate tuition fee.ocw.mit.eduB.O.Medicine and Madison Avenue is an online exhibition of "health-oriented advertising messages" at Duke University. It is educational, a source of amusement, and a treasure trove of useful tips on Listerine, Vaseline, Ayds, Cuticura, Flit, Drano and other products. For example, you can get rid of garbage smells by sprinkling Fairbank's Gold Dust washing powder over the contents?odyssey.lib.duke.edu/mmaFootball filesThe Premier League has just unveiled "the official and definitive site for fans who really want to know the score". It certainly has a fantastic statistics page, which lets you find all sorts of things from the shortest player (Wright, Aston Villa) to the one putting in the most crosses (Beckham, Manchester United), to the fastest sending off (Konchesky, Charlton) this season so far. You can also go back in time to, say, 1994/95 when Nottingham Forest finished third, Arsenal pipped Sheffield Wednesday for 12th place on goal difference.www.premierleague.comFord for 100The Ford Motor Company is starting to celebrate its 100th anniversary next summer, and has already launched a centennial site. If you are really keen, you can book a place for the five-day celebration, which will be held in June in Dearborn, Michigan. Ford UK's centennial website "will be launched very soon".www.ford.com/en/ourCompany/centennialfordcentennialreg.comwww.ford.co.ukNew &amp; noted&#183;Lost and found sounds:www.sonicmemorial.org&#183;Fantasy pop stars:www.fantasytop40.com&#183;Disguised advertising:www.dont-go-online-here.com&#183;Secure your home:www.homesecurityweek.co.uk&#183;Fun with crossed cats:tomandphil.myby.co.uk/kittyflipSix of the bestHalloweenBasic Guidewww.spooky.org.ukUS anglewww.halloween.comRecipeswww.recipecenter.com/gallery/gallery.asp?Code=21eCardswww11.123greetings.com/events/halloweenBackgroundwww.illusions.com/halloween/hallows.htmLinkswww.halloween-online.com
Not many people would have bet on South Korea becoming the world's leading nation for broadband internet use, but it is. Comparisons with the UK are embarrassing. Some 67% of Korean households now have broadband: the UK figure is about 4%. What's more, their broadband is better than ours. Koreans typically get 2Mbps connections, which are four times faster than BT Openworld's standard 512kbps. Korea's "pro" service is 16 times faster than that.Having got broadband internet, Koreans use it much more. Dr Heejin Lee, a lecturer at Brunel University, says Koreans rack up an average of 1,340 minutes per month, which compares with the UK average of 382 minutes. The high usage stems partly from it being fast enough for video on demand: people can use it to time-shift TV programmes, or catch up with episodes of soaps they have missed. Also, 54% of Koreans play online games.Nor is broadband an isolated example of Korea's success: it claims to be the first country to launch a 3G phone service. Strictly speaking, that may have fewer than 10,000 users, but more than 10 million people use 2.5G services that are faster than anything available in the UK. Almost everyone in Seoul, the capital, seems to have a phone with a colour screen that can show photos and play games.Korea has even overtaken the US in generating a greater proportion of its income from information technologies. In 2000, the IT industries contributed 13% of Korea's GDP, against only 8.3% for the US. Korea has become a leading manufacturer of flat TV and computer screens, including plasma displays, and is rapidly becoming a force in mobile phones.Lee, a Korean, went back this summer as a member of a Broadband Mission, sponsored by the Department of Trade and Industry, to find out what the UK could learn from the hermit kingdom's success. Last week, they published a report highlighting a number of Korea's advantages. These include the government's vision and commitment, the people's belief in the value of education, the high housing density and the craze for PC games.Opinions may vary, but I can't see any of these being reproduced in the UK. In fact, to get the same feeling of technology's potential to transform society, you would need to go back to the early 80s, when Kenneth Baker became minister of information technology in the Thatcher government and spearheaded a national drive for computer literacy. The launch of the Prestel service (which could make every TV an online terminal), the privatisation of British Telecom, the Computers in Schools project, the craze for Sinclair Spectrum games - it was surely the dawn of a new age. Korea got into the chip manufacturing business in the 1980s, but it didn't really settle on its current vision of a knowledge-based economy until January 1998, with the founding of KISDI, theKorea Information Society Development Institute.The Korean government has enjoyed some striking successes in its "superspeed" programme to develop an information economy. These include subsidising PC purchases by the less well off, and a huge drive to transform education. About 50,000 students from low-income families were given PCs and free internet services. More than 10,000 schools were connected to the internet, and 330,000 teachers and 210,000 classrooms provided with PCs. Students were asked to submit homework by email.In 2000, the government launched its Cyber 21 programme, to train a million housewives in IT use in 18 months. The 20-hour, week-long course was offered at a discount price of 30,000 won (&#163;15), and 70,000 signed up in the first 10 days. More than 10 million Koreans have now been trained in PC and internet use, with the drivers being education and entertainment, not business   uses. The next step is to turn Seongnam - a suburb of Seoul with a population of about a million - into the world's first digital city.All this is particularly impressive because Korea started from a much worse position than the UK. In 1997, tens of thousands of Koreans were thrown out of work by a foreign exchange crisis, and soup kitchens were opened in Seoul's city parks. On November 21, the government had to ask the International Monetary Fund for $58bn in emergency loans, and put itself under the IMF's financial management. However, the crisis must have reinforced the "digital or die" mentality that helped the nation change course.Things look different today. You arrive at the ultra-modern Inchon airport, which opened last year, to find a motorway system clogged with Korean-made cars. (Seoul is also a world leader in traffic congestion.) The cities are full of high-rise apartment blocks and underground shopping malls. And, at least in the centre of Seoul, it is not hard to find a Starbucks, Burger King or McDonald's.The apartment blocks are part of the secret of Korea's success. According to Antony Walker, who went on the DTI-Brunel mission, 49% of Korea's 47.7m population live in apartment blocks, defined as having six or more storeys; more than 90% live within 4km of a Korea Telecom exchange. Running a fibre optic cable into an apartment block's comms room is a quick way to deliver high-speed internet to 600 homes. "They wouldn't have been able to roll &#91;broadband&#93; out   so rapidly if they hadn't had these economies of density," says Walker.Easy access also enabled rival phone companies to compete with KT. "Consumers are incredibly price sensitive, and Hanaro Telecom offered broadband for half the price of KT," says Jed Kolko, a senior analyst with Forrester Research in San Francisco. Hanaro now has 2m users and 26% of the broadband market, against KT's 49%.Another less visible factor is the popularity of "PC bangs" (PC rooms). These can be found almost everywhere in Korean cities, but particularly in student areas. PC bangs are games-oriented cybercafes, the nearest UK equivalent being the Playing Fields, in London, which closed earlier this year. In Korea, at the peak, more than a thousand were being opened every month. Seoul-based Max Hwang, from NetValue, an internet monitoring company, says there are now 22,000.British teenagers hang about on street corners or, when they are old enough, congregate in pubs. In Korea, they go to PC bangs and spend about $1 an hour playing Legion, a medieval multiplayer game where players cooperate to storm castles. The malls have posh PC bangs, but more typically, they are badly lit basement rooms with, on average, 35 fast PCs. They are regarded as cool places to hang out.PC bangs got going in 1998, before the broadband roll-out, but they have not lost their attraction. Kids go there because they can play for hours, because they can smoke, and because they can chat up members of the opposite sex, all of which might be frowned on at home. The chatting up is done online, but if anything develops, you can message someone to tell them where you are sitting, and they can decide whether or not to introduce themselves in person.PC bangs have a dark side. As one Singaporean newspaper headline put it: "S. Korean youths turning into broadband zombies." Teenagers are, it is said, becoming addicted to games, dropping out of school and traditional group activities, and becoming uncommunicative or even violent. Last week, a 24-year-old South Korean collapsed and died after spending 86 hours playing games in a PC bang without eating or sleeping properly.On the other hand, PC bangs provided crash courses in computer literacy for people who did not have access to a PC at school or at work, and kick-started the market for broadband content, albeit mostly for games. They also ensured that for millions of people, their first experience of the internet was a broadband internet. It meant the service providers did not have to sell them the idea. As Kolko says: "There was a lot of pent-up demand for broadband because people who had already experienced it in PC bangs wanted to do the same things at home."Multimedia broadband should also stimulate the demand for more advanced mobile phones. Dr Park Tong Wook from KISDI says: "We have very high broadband internet and mobile phone penetration, and this forms a demand base for mobile internet. Data is only 8 or 9% of mobile &#91;operators'&#93; revenues - it's small, but it is growing fast."Eventually, of course, most people in industrialised countries should have broadband internet connections and 3G phones. Once the market is saturated, there is not much more you can do, except offer even higher speeds - Korea is hoping to have 20Mbps broadband delivering high-definition television by 2005. And, by pioneering the manufacturing of advanced technologies for the domestic market, Korean companies hope to have lots of prestige products to export to the rest of us.It could work. One thing Korea's World Cup football squad demonstrated was that you should never underestimate the underdog - especially when it's playing at home and has the support of the whole nation.Hot news for your fidgeTo add to its other accomplishments, South Korea could be the first country where home networking becomes widely used. LG Electronics Digital Appliance Company (LGE DAC), a $4.5bn white goods manufacturer with more than 20,000 employees, is already shipping products that can be controlled remotely. These include refrigerators, washing machines, microwave ovens and air conditioners.The core of the system is an internet refrigerator, which combines a fridge with a touch-screen LCD with a PC running Microsoft Windows 98. It works as a PC, a TV, a digital photo album, calendar/diary, an MP3 music player and a home controller. You can touch the screen to turn your air conditioner on and off, for example, and change settings.LGE DAC is using its own protocol, LnCP (Living network Control Protocol), to send signals over the home's mains wiring. However, it says it will continue developing its system to work with things such as   the PC industry's UPnP (Universal Plug &amp; Play), Sony's HAVi (Home Audio-Video interoperability), Sun's Jini, and so on, to meet global standards as required.The multimedia fridge is not going to find many takers at &#163;8,000 a throw. However, LGE is also developing an LCD TV with a built-in PC, which will also control networked appliances. This widescreen TV can display a PC screen and TV pictures side by side at the same time.Powerline signalling has been around since the 1970s with products such as the UK-developed X10. Systems have never caught on, partly because of the need to buy a controller for each device. LG's approach could work because it can ship devices with control capabilities built in, and sell the controller later.LG's advantage is that it is a giant chaebol, or conglomerate. It can build its own office blocks complete with LG escalators, LG lifts, LG air conditioners, giant LG flat screens, LG IBM personal computers and LG phones connected to LG Telecom.Apart from that, it doesn't much matter if the internet fridge does not sell very well: it has attracted huge publicity. As LG DAC's Dennis Ahn says: "Sales are small but the prestige is huge." The company's strategy is to raise the level of innovation and the image of its products, because it faces price-oriented competition from high-volume suppliers in nearby China.&#183;Jack Schofield has just returned from a British press trip to Korea hosted by LG Electronics.
DooWop Jukebox Gold is an internet radio station that has been playing harmony music of the 50s and 60s for more than two years. Run from his New York home by an enigmatic individual with the curious name of "papaoommowwow", the station streams the best music from a genre long forgotten by mainstream radio. Its audience may be small, but for the internet DooWop community, it is invaluable.That DooWop Jukebox Gold exists at all speaks volumes for the diversity of streamed music on the net. Whatever your taste in music, somewhere on the virtual dial, you'll find a station playing your tune. Yet whether you'll be able to enjoy that same degree of choice after Sunday seems to rest on the convictions of a small group of US senators.It now looks likely that many webcasters, larger internet-only stations and college broadcasters could be forced out of business by a ruling made by the Librarian of Congress in July that the US Senate has failed to amend.In fact, calling the web transmissions radio stations is something of a misnomer. Most stream music 24 hours a day via their own server or through one of the larger radio portals such as Live365.The ruling that could silence them broke new ground in US radio by asking webcasters to pay 0.07 cents per performance for internet-only transmission per listener per song when terrestrial broadcasters pay no performance royalty fee. The fee would be retroactive for broadcasters to 1998.With a deadline of October 20 looming, the date where   stations would have to pay royalty fees for transmission, the Record Industry's Association of America (RIAA) and groups representing the webcasters finally agreed a compromise solution - a new bill, the Small Webcasters Amendment Act, or HR 5469.And while the bill was unanimously approved by the House of Representatives last week, it has yet to find its way through the US Senate. For the retroactive payments to be halted, the bill needs presidential consent by Sunday. To find time for the bill in a very busy Senate schedule, support needs to be unanimous.Its backers claim the bill secures the future of internet radio by allowing small broadcasters to pay a royalty rate based on a percentage of their revenues or expenses, depending on which is greater. It also establishes a tier for non-profit making stations, which will keep them on air for an estimated $2,000 a year.Even if the Senate does approve the bill, its supporters acknowledge it will change internet radio.The publisher of the influential Radio and Internet Newsletter (Rain), Kurt Hanson, believes that HR 5469 "is not a perfect deal for everyone. However, for the pioneers of webcasting, accepting the option will allow them to stay alive after October 20; without the bill they could be bankrupted by their retroactive royalty obligation".Other webcasters are even more critical of the bill. "It is not a level-playing field for webcasters," complains John Schneider of Radiopoly.com. "How can congress justify charging webcasters a performance royalty fee that has never existed for terrestrials?"Kevin Shively, from the   popular classical music station Beethoven.com, doubts the business can ever make a reasonable profit under HR 5469.Potentially the biggest loser could be one of net radio's richest music sources - Live365. The company started in 1999 and provided an easy way for hobbyists to get their music stations online. Using simple software, would-be DJs upload their music to Live365's server to create their stream. Users pay $11 a month - considerably less than it would cost to set up using their own server.Ironically, these small broadcasters, who invariably claim only a couple of listeners at a time, could be the real victims of the bill."The Small Webcasters Amendment Act does very little for us," explains John Jeffrey, executive vice president of corporate strategies at the station. "While we are glad the legislation includes an option for smaller webcasters, it doesn't apply to Live365. We are still obligated to pay the initial rates (0.7 cents per listener per track)."For the moment, Live365 promises to absorb the rate without increasing its $11 base rate a month it charges station owners. However, it fears for its future. "For starters, we are going to have to pay a million dollars in retroactive royalties. The new rates are going to make it much more difficult to attract new capital to help the company grow," says Jeffrey.If time constraints in the Senate scupper HR 5469, or webcasters can't stomach the new costs, there are other places would-be broadcasters could consider. Moving their operations outside the USA would enable broadcasters to evade the royalty fees. A deal   agreed a couple of weeks ago by the European Competition Commissioner, Mario Monti, means that EU countries can compete with each other in collecting royalties for Europe-wide net broadcasters. Net-based radio stations can then gravitate to the country that has the lowest rates. It's an option the larger webcasters are considering."I think it's a last resort for some webcasters," says Paul Maloney, editor of Rain. "There has been some talk of Europe, but if things came to the crunch, most webcasters would look closer to home - Costa Rica is always mentioned. Personally, I think that webcasters will wait until they get their bills, and then decide what to do."For the hobbyists, there is also the option of Peercast, which uses file-sharing technology but users pass audio stream to each other, instead of swapping files. It is almost impossible for the record industries to track down owners and demand royalties. While it hasn't proved successful so far - only a handful of stations are online at the Peercast site - the failure of the US Congress to pass the bill could transform it into one of the most talked-about technologies on the web.Whatever happens in the Senate this week, for many net radio stations, October 20 2002 looks set to become the day the music died.Websiteswww.peercast.orgwww.live365.comwww.kurthanson.comwww.vugt.homestead.com(DooWop Jukebox Gold)
Satellite netI want to get broadband by satellite. How can I do that?I AbakaarJack Schofield replies:So far, satellite is not generally available at consumer prices.Aramiskais selling two-way broadband satellite services, at a cost likely to appeal only to business users: &#163;199 per month for a 256kbps connection. BT Openworld is also offering a business service, which could be suitable for home users. The equipment and installation costs &#163;899, then the service costs &#163;59.99 per month for500kbpsor phone 0800-671115).Currently, BT supports Windows Me and 2000, not Macs. However, this week, Everywhere! Broadband announced a one-way satellite service based on Eutelsat's OpenSky service. Prices will start at &#163;19.95 per month with installation from &#163;99, including VAT (seewww.everywherebroadband.com).Customers will still use a dial-up service, and can keep their current ISP and email address, but will receive things faster via a satellite dish. (One-way satellite has been tried in the UK but it failed.) Another wireless option could be on the way for users who live outside the larger cities.Internet Broadcasting Corporation (UK) Ltd has applied for a licence to start a trial of the Allumera system this month.Allumerais only in operation around Dallas, Texas. Typically, it works within a 25 mile radius of a broadcast radio mast. The trial area will cover parts of Essex and Suffolk.Who?When I send a message in Outlook Express, my name appears in the From line. How can I change this to something I choose?Michael PierceJS:Run Outlook Express, select Tools|Accounts, and click the Mail tab. Highlight the email account you want to change and click Properties.The name is in the Name field.BugBearWhen a new computer virus like BugBear starts spreading, how rapidly do AVG, McAfee, etc, update their software? How frequently should I update the anti-virus software on my PC?Julian DunnJS:Anti-virus companies do not have to update their software to cope with new viruses. What they do is add a new "virus signature" to their existing list of definitions used to identify specific viruses. They usually do this long before a virus has gained sufficient momentum to be a risk, and certainly before news reaches the mass media.Weekly or even monthly updates have usually been enough. However, Bugbear spread with unusual speed - Symantec only discovered it on September 30 - so it may be wiser to get updates once or twice a week, or subscribe to one of the free email alert services. New virus exploits are much rarer than new viruses, and BugBear used a    hole closed by a Microsoft security patch more than 18 months ago. Even if their virus checkers did not identify it, most users should not have fallen victim to it. Ultimately, security depends on the user. You can avoid most problems if you are vigilant, keep up to date with security patches, and never run unsolicited attachments.StuckI received the BugBear virus in an email attachment: AVG spotted it and I did not open it. However, AVG now tells me the virus is on my hard drive and it cannot remove it from its location at C:\_RESTORE\ TEMP\A0125238.CPYNigel BakerJS:Windows Me and XP have a System Restore facility that tracks changes, so if you need to take your PC back to an earlier state, you can. Naturally, it protects its restore files from deletion. To remove the virus code, you must therefore turn off System Restore first. Symantec's website explains how to do this in WindowsMeandXP.Shut itI use TightVNC to access my work PCs from the internet. Occasionally I find programs hang on the machines at work and I need to kill them using the close program dialog. This is a problem on Windows 98 machines where the close program only seems to be available by pressing Ctrl+Alt+Del. (TightVNC does have an option to send a Ctrl+Alt+Del but it does not work on Windows 98.)Adrian BarrettJS:Try an alternative task manager such as Niresoft Task Manager 0.9.6 forWindows 9x/Me. "This product is almost identical to the wonderful Task Manager you receive with Windows NT and 2000," says the blurb. Alternatives includeAnother Task Manager 3.0andEndItAll 2.BackchatLast week, Andy Jenkinson asked about the wireless broadband service offered by Liberty Broadband. Only one reader - Richard Harvey - has admitted to using the service. He says that, overall, he is happy enough to think about dropping his Demon account and switching entirely to wireless.&#183;Fred Briggs has taken me to task for last week's reply to Roger McCarthy, who asked how to remove Windows XP and revert to Windows 98. "I would have thought better advice would have been to replace the offending sound card and modem, and thereby enjoy the benefits of his investment in XP," saysBriggs. If the old sound card and modem won't work with the latest XP drivers, McCarthy could buy cheap generic replacements for less than the cost of his XP upgrade.&#183;A query from Phil Clarke (September 26) prompted a discussion of cheap ways to convert documents into Adobe PDF (Portable Document Format) files that preserve the original layout and typefaces. I mentioned that Mac users can try PrintToPDF, a shareware printer driver. Gareth Bouch (www.smallcreep.com) points out that "if they run OS X, PDF technology is built into the system. You can print to/save as PDF from any OS X application, either directly from the Print dialog box or from the Print Preview."
Whisper the word "collectables" into any webophile's ear and they'll almost automatically start typing the legend "ebay.co.uk" into their address bar. The marketing has been so effective, that there are those who think it's the only place to look for obscure items.And it's not a bad starting point either - it's just that the popularity of the site tends to militate against finding the bargain of the century. Conversely, although lower prices are available from smaller sites, the sheer number of sellers of identical items on a big website such as this has pushed the overall market price downwards.People don't just collect for financial value, though: they're actually interested in their items. Antiqueweb.com, for example, has all the links to eBay and Amazon that you might expect to generate a little revenue and, indeed, it's owned by a big American publishing house, but is packed with information rather than sales pitches.Even more the province of the enthusiast is the collectors' club, of which there are many, with pretty professional look  ing sites. TheClarice Cliff Collectors' Clubis packed with information on Clarice Cliff pottery. Likewise, theGuinness Collectors Club, where you can swap Guinness items and get free valuations, as well as buy official merchandise from them and join the club. And I challenge anyone to look at the Muffin the Mule Collectors' Club without a silly grin on their face -www.muffin-the-mule.comis filled with items from the childhood of anyone in their late 40s and beyond.But before you get too carried away with the national and international clubs devoted to your favourite beermats or whatever, consider the small local group as well. They're represented on the web, although the Surrey Bottle Collectors Club at www. surreyad.co.uk/bottle/sbcc1.html seems not to have had an update for a number of years. There's still an article about rare bottles from the Britannia Brewery. Equally local, if more commercial, is theFine Art Collectors Clubin Dorset - essentially a string of galleries banding together with a single website.In fact, anyone reading the glossy magazines will have come across a number of "clubs" that are actually a front for a sales operation - offering a select series of plates tastefully illustrated with the crew members of the USS Enterprise or something equally profound. Sites such aswww.cheapstarwars.com,www.specialsignings.com(cult film autographs) andwww.starfeatures.com(cult TV and film) will happily offer all of the shrink-wrapped modern memorabilia anyone is likely to want, although the serious collectors are sometimes justifiably wary of the tailor-made collectable item.More exciting are the small specialist dealers online.Hamer Bookshas a guide to forthcoming British comic auctions and comes from the publisher of the Hamer Comic Annual Guide, probably the most realistic assessment of the value of your old Beano Annuals (which are almost all worth more than the Dandy from the same year, sorry).This talks you through not only rarity but desirability - for example, people buying kids' annuals from the early 1900s aren't seeing much of a return because the annuals market depends on nostalgia and memories, and few kids    from the 1900s are still around. For more general books,www.booksearch-at-Hay.comoffers a search service and has the advantage of being surrounded by booksellers, so its chances of finding the title you're after are better than most.If you still want to go to eBay - or Amazon, which now does auctions, or QXL or any other popular auction site, then remember a few things.First, the fact that someone puts "RARE" in capitals next to their item doesn't make it any such thing. You'll find the word next to the first Doctor Who annual (remaindered on its first print and commonplace, unlike the next five) and bindings of Punch from the 19th century (printed and kept in their thousands, interesting to read but a bad investment).Remember, prices can go down as well as up. One of the minor effects of September 11 was that the collectables market suffered due to people's concerns about their disposable income.Bid late rather than early to avoid pushing the price up too much, and look out for the facility to buy at a fixed price if you know your market - sometimes people put unexpectedly low prices on these. I once got hold of a couple of children's annuals in excellent condition in this way, and then sold my scuffed editions for &#163;10 more. Each. And I had an email from my buyer to say how pleased he was with the books.
When did you encounter the internet?In the early days of the militaryArpanet, my daughter was studying in Nicaragua. Because the US was essentially at war with them, contact was difficult. I managed to use MIT's Arpanet connection and she found one, so we could communicate thanks to the Pentagon!Has the net become more marketplace than information resource?There are massive efforts on the part of the internet's corporate owners to try to direct it to become a technique of marginalisation and control. Media analystNorman Solomondid a study of references to the net. Pre-95 it was mostly referred to as an "information superhighway": post-95 it was "free shopping". The effort is to direct people towards commerce or diversions such as pornography.However, the global justice movements - referred to as "anti-globalisation" movements - have used the internet very effectively to get around the fact that their views are not permitted in the major media. Things such as theWorld Social Forumare primarily organised through the net.Are you involved with MIT's OCW project?OpenCourseWareoffers people who can't attend elite universities the chance to study the curriculum online for free. As a research tool, the internet is invaluable.What are the pros and cons of the information age?We should be modest about it. The major advances in speed of communication and ability to interact took place more than a century ago. The shift from sailing ships to telegraph was far more radical than that from telephone to email! The internet could be a very positive step towards education, organisation and participation in a meaningful society. But if you look at the latest figures for internet use, things such as pornography and e-shopping overwhelm everything else.Will the virus soon be mightier than the sword?That is a serious problem, as is spamming. There are concentrated efforts to try to shut down critical voices, particularly with the Israel/Palestine issue. Everyone who is critical of Israeli policy is deluged by crazed messages intended to flood their email system or, more insidiously, passwords are accessed and messages sent out under their name! I'm sure it's illegal. It's also an effort to undermine free speech.Do you encrypt?I stay transparent. When I was organising resistance against the government I was open - that's the best protection. Somebody will be able to overcome any encryption technique you use! Our only weapons are truth, honesty and openness.Favourite websites?I rarely have the time. I sometimes visitZNetandFAIR.Visit:www.zmag.org/chomskyandwww.understandingpower.com
Toshiba is targeting newcomers to the PocketPC market with the e330, which has just gone on sale for &#163;349 including VAT. While the e310 sits at the bottom of Toshiba's range, the e330 offers a 300MHz Intel XScale (Arm-compatible) processor instead of 206MHz, and 64 instead of 32 megabytes of memory. And while PocketPC devices have traditionally been bigger  than rival Palm handhelds, the e330 comes very close to Palm's top-of-the-range m515, which has 16MB of memory.The Toshiba is just a millimetre thicker at 12.4mm, and 8g heavier at 147g, though it is about &#163;100 more expensive. The e330's other features include a Secure Digital (SD) expansion slot, built-in speaker and microphone (16-bit stereo), headphone jack, infrared port, USB port and USB cradle. But Toshiba could soon face competition from an unexpected source: Dell Computer. According to documents leaked on the net, Dell is planning to launch a PocketPC codenamed Clemente. Two models are expected to appear at the Comdex computer trade show in Las Vegas next month, before going on sale on December 4.The 300MHz machine is rumoured to cost $199, with the 400MHz model at $299.  Although Clemente sounds like a typical PocketPC, it is curvier than most and features a sort of jog-dial controller. See:www.digit-life.com/archive.shtml?20021005 Viewsonic, a monitor manufacturer based in California, claimed last month it would be the first company to break the $300 barrier with a Pocket PC, the PC V35. However, it is not known if the system will go on sale in the UK.Name that tuneDo you have trouble remembering the names of songs? Have you sung a barely remembered chorus to a friend in an attempt to find out what the original was called, or who performed it first? Chances are the attempt ended in failure, but a new system being shown off for the first time in Paris today could change that.The system is called Omras (online music recognition and searching), and has been developed by researchers at Queen Mary, University of London. It can recognise a song from you humming the chorus or banging it out on the piano. It will even, after one play through, find variations on a theme - unearthing, for instance, all 12 variations of Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star. And in what is likely to be a boon for music students and composers, its creators hope Omras will eventually be able    to transcribe music - produce a printed score just by listening to someone perform it.The system only has an index of a few thousand songs so far, but the researchers hope their invention will have far-reaching implications for the way we use music. As well as helping solve pub arguments (along with music recognition service Shazam, already available on your mobile phone - see www. shazam.com ), they think it will have applications in the field of copyright protection. "Systems like ours will change the way in which we use music in our everyday lives," says Professor Mark Sandler."Being able to get at the underlying musical structure, and then querying online search engines, will make music appreciation a    much more interactive experience.
Apple Computerlost $45 millionin its latest financial quarter, after taking a $49 million write-off for investments. Sales of Macintoshes fell by another 14% to 734,000 units during the quarter. Over the full year, however, revenues actually increased slightly to $5.74 billion, and the company made a profit of $65 million. Apple's annual sales peaked at $11.5 billion in 1995 and have halved since then. MeanwhileIBM, the world's biggest computer company, had a dull quarter, with revenues of $20.3 billion and profits of $1.3 billion.
Next week, Freedom Scientific is launching thePAC Mate, a Microsoft Windows CE-based system for blind users.
Pedro Monagas, from Spain, has developed a baby monitor to interpret an infant's cries, reportsBBC Online.
Red faces at Microsoft. They tried to do their own version of Apple's very effectiveSwitchcampaign - a series of ads where users explain why they moved from Windows systems to Macs. Trouble was, the Microsoft "switcher" was a freelance writer paid to come up with the words - and her picture was, in fact, taken from astock photography library(as discovered by theSlashdotcommunity). Nothing too surprising, since all this comes from a corporation already found guilty in the courts of far more serious anti-competitive behaviour over a number of years. But it's mildly funny, given Microsoft's official line towards Apple is supposed to be reasonably friendly. Microsoft has pulled the ad, but Google'scachestill has a copy.Wired Newshas the full story. And Mac bloggerJohn Gruberhas come up with some interesting information on how the stunt was uncovered.
An interesting review in theSan Francisco Chronicleof a $200 (£125) computer on sale at Wal-Mart. The verdict? If you can spend more, it's worth it. The modest technical spec of the machine is not an issue - after all, if you don't play games or cut together movies in your spare time you don't need the fastest PC out there. But the Lindows operating system (similar to Windows from Microsoft, but a free effort based on Linux) sounds very buggy, and completely unsuited for consumer use. Which is a shame.
Salonreports: "Most 'bloggers' bleat from a computer in their home or office. But for [Kevin] Barbieux, that's not possible. He doesn't own a computer. He rarely has a steady job. And for years, he hasn't had a place to call home. Instead, Barbieux catches a few furtive hours of sleep at one of Nashville's shelters, in a public park, or underneath an abandoned building. During the day he hangs out at public libraries, spending hours updating hisjournal."
What happens when you put open-access internet terminals in a fast-food restaurant? The conclusion is inevitable, it seems.Do you want porn with your fries, sir?
Wired News(ooh - nice new look) reports on possible good news for Apple and its users: IBM is expected to unveil a new line of 64-bit processors that could help bridge the growing gap between Mac and Wintel processor speeds. Don't dust off your chequebook, Macolytes - it's not going to happen before the end of next year - but the PowerPC 970 line should bring clock speeds of 1.8GHz, with lots more instructions issued per cycle. People Wired have talked to suggest the development should bring the two platforms pretty close in terms of performance, although debatingthatis always a good way to start a fight.
Following the weekend's horrific events in Bali, another bomb blast that killed seven people and injured 80 others in Finland the day before has received less attention than it would normally. But today Reutersreportsthat police are examining the theory that the only suspect - killed in the blast - used a recipe he found on the internet to build the device. Evidence cited so far includes the fact he was shy, lived at home with his parents, and "spent a lot of time hooked up to the Internet". He was also a chemistry student, but ignore this more likely source of bomb-making knowledge. Off-handly blaming the internet is lots easier than asking: what creates such a strong murderous, or suicidal, impulse in a 19-year-old he detonates a 6.6lb bomb in a shopping centre?
Police investigating Finland's worst peacetime bomb attack were yesterday trying to work out whether their only suspect, a chemistry student who was among the seven dead, had found bomb-making instructions on the internet.Investigators appealed for information about the 19-year-old, who lived at home with his parents, and attended a technology institute in the Helsinki suburb of Vantaa.The home-made bomb, weighing up to 3kg and packed with metal shards, went off close to a children's area in a shopping centre packed with 2,000 people on Friday evening, killing seven people and injuring more than 80."He was using the internet quite a lot," Jari Liukku, the deputy head of the country's 
 bureau of investigation, said. He declined to elaborate.The Finnish media said police had found internet addresses and other information on the suspect's computer which suggested that he might have obtained bomb-making instructions on the internet. His parents, unaware of his activities and deeply shocked, are said to be receiving counselling."He was likely a skilled bomb maker," Mr Liukku said. The suspect was "an ordinary young man from a middle-class family. There was nothing particular about him or his personality," he said.Police said the death toll would have been much higher if the bomb had exploded a few minutes earlier, as a performance for children nearby ended shortly before the blast. Reuters
Andrew Orlowski reports on thebackroom dealthat could mean the death of the grass-roots webcaster.
If your company personnel officer looks at you strangely the next time you pass in the office corridor, it might be with good reason. He or she may already have read the explicit message you posted the other day to an internet chat-room.New research reveals that the trend towards 'Big Brother' oversight of Britain's office communications has become almost unstoppable. Two in three employers now say they monitor website access and incoming email messages. Up to two million workers may currently have their emails secretly monitored by bosses.   Trevor Luxton, a 22-year-old clerk at Credit Lyonnais in the City of London, faces dismissal from his job as a result of boasting to friends about a sexual incident through an office email two weeks ago. His case is not isolated. One in four firms told researchers that they would sack an employee for breaching their internet policies.'More employers than ever before want to know what their staff are doing on email,' said Patrick Burns of the Work Foundation, which carried out the study of workplace 'netiquette' across the country.British employers have   been inspired by US concern with office 'cyber-slack' - the wasteful use of office time on the internet. Surveillance, some of it secret, includes 'internet filtering'. Expletives, the names of directors and competitors, or hints that an employee might be looking for another job - such as 'cv' or 'application' in a message - can be detected. An email containing the sensitive words can be stopped or referred to an administrator.Computer programmes now exist which can detect a high-level 'flesh-tone' in images, suggesting that pornography is being viewed. Their drawback is they may also alert monitors to pictures of pigs or a pink sofa in an online catalogue.If an intercepted message or image is forwarded after being inspected, the eventual recipient might not even know that it has been read in transit. That enables an employer to continue monitoring someone leaking sensitive information or making a job application elsewhere. Email and internet traffic can also be 'logged', establishing how long a member of staff has spent on the internet for personal purposes.Luxton circulated an explicit message to five friends describing how a young woman performed oral sex upon him while he ate a curry and watched soccer on television. The email not only reached his fianc&#233;e but was circulated to thousands of internet users.Last January 10 staff at the Royal &amp; Sun Alliance were sacked after internet monitoring picked up a doctored picture of the cartoon character Bart Simpson performing a 'lewd' act.Recent US research attributed between 30 and 40 per cent of lost productivity to 'cyber-loafing' at work. Shopping and job-hunting sites were as widely used as those featuring sex. It is expected that by next year 80 per cent of US companies will have installed software supervising staff internet activity.Many larger British employers such as Bentley, Cable &amp; Wireless and Orange already have formal policies to control internet use. They are publicised clearly.However, the Work Foundation found that one in 10 businesses surveyed which were monitoring staff had not told them.A TUC spokeswoman said: 'The focus should be on preventing abuse, not seeking to catch people out.'How to baffle the office snoopers&#183;Never use your boss's name in an email&#183;Intersperse sensitive words with dashes&#183;Don't put the letters 'cv' in emails&#183;Put sensitive information in an email attachment&#183;Don't log on to a job search website&#183;Use text message vocabulary - gr8 (great) m8 (mate)&#183;Use 4 instead of A or a zero instead of O&#183;If you must log on to a sex website, use your boss's computerben.summerskill@observer.co.uk
Microsoft is making good progress with the C# language. It has already been accepted as a standard by ECMA and is now on track forISOstandardisation -- the one that Sun failed to follow through with Java.
WiniInfo's Paul Thurrott has given Microsoft's attempt at integrating the PC and TV atest drive.
In Cardiff, thanks to theArwainproject.....
Michael Dell, founder of Dell Computer, has been interviewed byUSA Today.
A game player in South Korea hasdiedafter playing computer games nonstop for 86 hours, reports Associated Press.
