The company behind the technology found in wireless Beats headphones and Nike Running gadget has unveiled the world's thinnest keyboard, with a flexible, wireless touchscreen just half a millimetre thick.Cambridge-based CSR, which specialises in wireless technology, showcased a prototype of the product at the IFA consumer electronics event in Berlin, but it will be 12 months before it will be available to buy.Paul Williamson, CSR's director of low power wireless products, said the final form factor depended on how manufacturers bring the keyboard to market, although its primary use is likely to be as a lightweight, complementary external keyboard for tablet devices. "This is a working prototype and a glimpse forward rather than something people will be buying this year," he said."We might see lots of shapes and sizes, some as small as iPad Mini or a larger, more rigid form for a desktop PC, which could be curved, in any colour way, transparent or fitted with a leather folio."Developed in partnership with Conductive Inkjet Technology, the interface for the product is printed out and can be customised. That could mean printing bespoke keyboards in different languages with ease, or customised keyboards for functions such as video editing and for customers who would like personalised patterns or messages on their own keyboard.The keyboard's touchscreen could also be used under a piece of paper to transcribe notes made with a pen and sync them to a computer.CSR's research has led to wireless products that enable music streaming in the popular Beats headphones, the performance-tracking tool the Nike+ SportWatch and the Jambox speaker.Founded in 1999, CSR is one of a cluster of successful, research-focused tech companies clustered around Cambridge and "Silicon Fen" who have recently discussed introducing a "Made in Cambridge" badge to promote their products."The audio experience you're getting from Beats headphones exists because we developed it, put it out there and now it is used on a global scale," said Williamson."People don't recognise that that kind of innovation is developed by a small number of very bright people here, and the pool of engineering talent and expertise here deserves a bit more credit than the app economy drive in the periphery of London."• This article was amended on 4 September 2013 to clarify that CSR does not make Beats headphones and Nike Running gadgets, but developed the wireless technology that they use. The name of Conductive Inkjet Technology, which was wrongly given as Cambridge Inkjet Technology, was also corrected.
"The wrist is interesting,"said Apple chief executive Tim Cookat the All Things Digital D11 conference in May 2013, when being quizzed about his company's potential plans for wearable technology in the years to come."For something to work here you have to convince people it's so incredible, that they want to wear it... If we had a room full of 10 to 20-year-olds and we said, 'Everyone stand up that has a watch,' I'm not sure anybody would stand up."Nevertheless, Apple is one of the technology giants at the centre of growing speculation about smartwatches. Along with Samsung – whose Galaxy Gear is expected to be unveiled later this week – Google and Microsoft, the wrist is proving interesting for anyone who's anyone in the smartphone world.Research firm Canalys recently claimed that 500,000 smartwatches will be sold this year, but then 5m in 2014 thanks to the entry of Apple, Samsung, Google and other technology firms into the market, alongside traditional watch-makers.Rival IDC even thinks thatdemand for wearables (including watches) could slow down tablet salesover the coming years, reducing its forecasts accordingly. So what do we know – or, to be more accurate, what's been rumoured – about the plans of the big tech firms?AppleApple has been rumoured to be making a smartwatch for some time now – it's a perennial rumour alongside an Apple television, hence those questions for Cook.Apple's registration of iWatch as a trademarkin Japan in June this year only fanned the flames of that speculation.That came after a New York Times report claiming that the company had been"experimenting with wristwatch-like devices made of curved glass"and running  iOS software.Past employees have been speculating too:interface expert Bruce Tognazzini claimed the "iWatch" would"fill a gaping hole in the Apple ecosystem. It will facilitate and coordinate not only the activities of all the other computers and devices we use, but a wide array of devices to come".Fellow ex-ApplerJean-Louis Gassée provided his own opinions back in March, suggesting that "the iWatch will enrich the iOS ecosystem: Reasonably useful on its own, but most important as a way to increase the value/enjoyment of other iDevices… at least for now."In July, reports suggested thatApple had made a number of "acqui-hires" of small companiesto build its "iWatch" team, sitting within a wider wearables group at the company. The Financial Times claimed thatApple had been forced to turn to outsidersto help with "hard engineering problems that they've not been able to solve" in-house.In August, reports in Taiwan claimed that two local companies, Quanta and Inventec, hadwon the contracts to build Apple's first smartwatch, with suggestions that they could build up to 38m units in 2014 – although CIMB Securities analyst Wanli Wang predicted 63m units shipping in the first year after the device launched.SamsungPlenty of details have leaked out about Samsung's smartwatch plans: it'sexpected to be called the Galaxy Gear, and will be unveiled on 4 September ahead of the IFA consumer electronics trade show in Berlin.Last weekend, VentureBeat claimed a scoop:actual pictures of the Galaxy Gear, although the description – "a blocky health tracker with a camera" – didn't exactly whet the appetite.The emphasis was firmly on fitness though: "My initial impression was that it's a new wearable fitness device to rival a Nike Fuelband or Fitbit Flex — a smartphone companion rather than a smartphone alternative," wrote journalist Christina Farr. Separately,shots of Samsung's app for controlling the watchhave also leaked, via the @evleaks Twitter account.The expectation: a device designed as a companion to Samsung's Galaxy range of Android smartphones. As with other companies mentioned here, the inspiration is thought to be as much fitness-tracking bands by the likes of Jawbone, Nike and Fitbit rather than trying to squeeze a smartphone's guts into a watch-shaped device.GoogleIt's just emerged thatGoogle quietly bought a smartwatch startup called Wimm Labsin 2012: the company had released its ownWIMM Onesmartwatch in 2011 before shutting down in 2012 due to "an exclusive, confidential relationship for our technology". Google.WIMM had been trying to build a platform for developers rather than just a device, although within Google it's now part of an even bigger platform and developer community: Android. Yet the other interesting thing about the WIMM One was its ability to work as a standalone gadget with its own apps, rather than simply controlling apps on a paired smartphone.News of the acquisition made previous Google smartwatch rumours worth a second reading. The Financial Times reported in March, for example, thatGoogle was working on a smartwatch projectwithin its Android unit, and cited apatent application by the company from 2011for a "smart-watch" including a "tactile user interface".The Wall Street Journal followed that up in June with claims thata smartwatch was being developed alongside a games console, both powered by Android, as Google moved more into hardware. There was a hint that the two devices may be in competition in terms of securing a commercial release: "The Internet giant hopes to design and market the devices itself and release at least one of them this fall," as journalist Amir Efrati put it.MicrosoftMicrosoft and smartwatches? There's some history behind that: the company's SPOT platform tempted the likes of Fossil, Suunto, Swatch and Tissot when its first watches launched in 2004, butby 2008 it was toast, filed alongside Tablet PC in the company's possibly-too-soon filing cabinet.And in 2013? Suppliers to Microsofttold the Wall Street Journal in Aprilthat the company was sourcing components for a smartwatch prototype, including 1.5-inch displays.In July,The Verge followed up, suggesting that devices were now being prototyped "directly under the Surface team as the firm moves its wrist-worn device closer to reality". The trouble with all Microsoft rumours right now, however, is that with chief executive Steve Ballmer on the way out, it's unclear what his replacement's strategy will be regarding schemes at the prototype stage.And the rest?Pebble Technology has sold more than 85,000 of itsPebble watchessince raising $10.3m to make them on Kickstarter. Sony is already on its second device, the SmartWatch 2, which went on sale earlier this year.High-end smartwatchthe Hyetis Crossbow has sold more than 300 units– and that's at $1,200 per device. Intel is also testing some smartwatch devices in its labs."The watch is kind of — if you want to put the time on it, that's fine,"chief technology officer Justin Rattner told a Bloomberg conferencein June 2013. "But if you're talking about texting today, wouldn't it be nice if you could just look at your wrist?""Almost every major consumer electronics manufacturer is now working on a smartwatch"noted Quartz in July 2013. And that's not to mention the traditional watch manufacturers."Suddenly, everyone's discovered the wrist," Casio's chief executive Kazuo Kashiotold the New York Times in August. "We've known for a long time it's prime real estate. We're prepared."What does this all mean?How much of the excitement about smartwatches is due to the desire within the technology industry (yes, including journalists) for a new category-shaking range of devices, rather than actual demand from buyers or a strong sense of why these smartwatches would be useful?"Smartwatches are a great idea – except for the 'smart' and 'watch' parts,"noted Time's Harry McCracken in June. He went on to outline the barriers: battery life, display quality and "no true killer apps" – although he admitted that fitness-tracking gadgets may offer the most interesting path forward.Even so, the interest in the future of the wrist – from Tim Cook and his fiercest rivals' companies – is genuine, as are the questions around the category's future.Will these devices be more wrist-worn controllers for smartphones (and other devices) than running their own apps? Will they kill off the fitness-tracking bands, or provide the companies making those like Jawbone, Fitbit and Nike with a new product category to move into? Those questions won't be answered until 2014 at the earliest, whenever the Galaxy Gear goes on sale.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).Parallels Access (Free)Parallels' new iPad app provides remote access to your desktop computer, whether it's a PC or Mac. The idea being you can fire up your desktop applications, control them via the touchscreen, and work with iPad apps – copying and pasting text for example. While it's free to download, it does need a year's subscription for £54.99 per computer once the 14-day trial runs out.iPadExplore Shakespeare (Free)Shakespeare goes freemium! Although thankfully not in the 'in-app purchases to unlock dragons in Hamlet' sense. This is an app to access Cambridge University Press' individual versions of plays including Macbeth, Romeo and Juliet, Twelfth Night and A Midsummer Night's Dream, with lots of innovative AND useful features to dig deeper into the texts. Each play costs £9.99.iPadLego Mindstorms Robot Commander (Free)Lego has actually released three apps for its new Mindstorms EV3 robotics kit this week. Robot Commander is the one you use to control the five robots that can be built using the kit: walking, slithering, grasping, and then making you a cup of tea (I'm guessing with that last one: don't be disappointed). Also worth checking out:Lego Mindstorms 3D Builder, which teaches you how to build the bots, andLego Mindstorms Fix the Factory, a puzzle game introducing one of them.iPhone / iPadMadden NFL 25 (Free)EA's moves to make some of its biggest game franchises freemium continues with Madden NFL the latest to get the treatment. Yes, there's American Football action here, but the focus is just as much on building a team of players through (digital) card-collecting, with in-app purchases funding your roster ambitions.iPhone / iPadMaterial (Free)The latest company aiming to provide a sleek news-aggregation app is INQ, with this port of the Material app that's been going down well on Android. Promising "fresh new content you'll love based on what you already like", it gets you to sign in with Twitter or Facebook, then analyses your posts to figure out what you might want to read about.iPhoneMonster Match (Free)Monster Match got me hooked on holiday last week with its combination of match-three puzzling and Pokemon-style monster-collecting. It sees you finding and battling more than 225 beasties by matching gems, with plenty of nuances in balancing the various abilities and levelling up. The inspiration is fairly clear:Puzzle &amp; Dragons, currently one of the most lucrative mobile games in the world. But you can't yet play that here in the UK, so Monster Match is worth a look.iPhone / iPadBitTorrent Sync (Free)No, not an actual BitTorrent filesharing client – Apple still doesn't allow those on the App Store. This is from BitTorrent the company – a file-syncing application tying into the wider BitTorrent Sync service, so you can access your folders and files on the go, and send photos and videos to those folders as well.iPhoneFleep (Free)As explained last week,Fleep is the new thing from two of Skype's founding engineers: an app that sits somewhere between chat and email. It supports one-to-one and group chats, saving important messages to a Pinboard, and making shared photos and documents easily accessible.iPhoneQuip (Free)Quip is a much-talked-about new word processing app that – from this week – is available in the UK as well as the US. The schtick: it groups documents and messages about them in a chat-like "thread of updates", making collaboration clearer. It works across Android, iOS and desktop computers too.iPhone / iPadFlick Kick Field Goal 2014 (Free)I've had to uninstall the Flick Kick Football game several times after it got in the way of work, and developer PikPok has a good record with making other sports just as addictive too. This new Flick Kick Field Goal game focuses on American Football kicking, as you flick your balls (so to speak) to get as high a score as possible.iPhone / iPadInplayrs (Free)Inplayrs is worth keeping an eye on for sports fans: an app that gets you to compete with other players to predict outcomes as matches play, with live odds and data fed in all the time. It's the work of a team of ex Betfair, Morgan Stanley and Amazon folk, with sports covered including football, tennis, basketball and cricket.iPhoneSyllable (£0.69)Here's an interesting idea: an app that promises to help you "earn to read much faster, and helps you finish your Instapaper and Pocket articles you've been meaning to get to". So it ties into those services, while teaching you how to minimise "subvocalisation" (the process of saying – in your head – the words you read), thus speeding you up. Intriguing.iPhonePixaki: Pixel Art for Professionals (£4.99)Pixel art – as seen in around 52% of critically-acclaimed iOS games in recent memory (rough estimate) – continues to be popular with game designers. What if you're doing it yourself, though? Pixaki aims to help you create "anything from retro game characters to vast isometric cityscapes" with intuitive touchscreen controls and clever upscaling tech for usage elsewhere.iPadTablePouncer (Free)Looking to bag a cheap meal at a decent restaurant? TablePouncer is aiming to satisfy your appetite for bargain grub. It rounds up deals for more than 500 restaurants in a selection of British cities including London, Brighton, Southampton, Bournemouth, Bristol and Bath (presumably it'll head north of the Watford Gap soon too, or at least you'd hope so).iPhoneLucy Ladybird (£3.99)Not enough children's apps have proper theme songs. Lucy Ladybird does, and with it comes a well-crafted story of the heroine's search for her spots. Digital colouring, karaoke and a spider-hunting mini-game are also included, with more materials available on its website for parents and children to enjoy together.iPadmarc - Masterpieces of Architecture (Free)Something for travellers here: an app that promises "the top 25 masterpieces of Budapest" – as in buildings – with more cities to follow in subsequent updates. Expect photos, drawings, tours and location features showing you how to get to each building. Architectural tourists will love it.iPhoneHabitRPG (Free)A fun attempt to blend roleplaying game mechanics with a productivity app. Or, as the App Store listing puts it: "Habit tracking which treats your goals like a Role Playing Game. Level up as you succeed, lose HP as you fail, earn money to buy weapons and armor." It's the official spin-off from the HabitRPG website, used to motivate everything from calling your mum to working out.iPhone / iPadNational Trust Postcards (Free)There are a number of apps that turn your iPhone photos into physical postcards, but how many of them actually benefit the places you're snapping pics of? This one does: it's an official app from the National Trust, charging £1.50 per postcard.iPhoneWungi Pirates (£1.99)This attempt to create a "sandbox" style game for children is worth watching as more content is added in the weeks to come: it's a piratical game that currently features sailing, cannon battles, treasure-hunting and parrots. Well, there'd have to be parrots. It's playful and open-ended in its scope.iPadJunk Jack X (£2.99)Junk Jack was one of my favourites in the emerging genre of "inspired by Minecraft but in 2D" games on iOS, but now it has a sequel. It sees you exploring randomly-generated worlds full of monsters, loot and items to craft with. There's lots to see and do: and online and local multiplayer to share the fun with others.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
At the Electronic Arts stand in the business hall at Gamescom, a couple of demo units were offering hands-on time with Fifa 14 on Xbox One. There was always a crowd around the screens; every journalist I talked to had spent time there, either waiting impatiently, or playing a match. It looks beautiful and plays with a fluidity that, in snatched instances, makes it seem photo-realistic.But how much extra technology, time and effort has the team been able to put into the next-generation versions of the latest Fifa title? And what are the most obvious new features we can expect?To find out, I cornered the game's executive producer, Dave Rutter, and asked about the big changes and little extras. Here's what he had to say.At EA's Gamescom press conference, you talked about how you're planning to increase the sense of theatre and spectacle with the next-gen console versions of Fifa. Can you tell us more about that?"For us, the whole next generation thing is build on three main foundations. First, it's about true human emotion, so we've done a ton of work on animation technology and animation variety; the way the players look and move. The second part of it is the behavioural aspect of the players – we've done a lot on ensuring they have human intelligence, predictive physics, so that they can avoid collisions, all that kind of stuff."The third part is about the whole scene of the game. And it is a scene: the players are the actors, but there are other things going on. If you look at broadcast football footage, we've spent a lot of time with Sky to try and figure out how we can duplicate what TV is doing. One of our producers spent days in the Sky studio, staying with them from the start, all the way through broadcast and then afterwards, to kind of think like a director does."The way it works is, there's obviously the story of the match itself and the players who are involved in it, then there's the meta story around the teams and the league and everything else. So on the one hand you have Gareth Bale leaving Spurs and joining Real Madrid, so in the build-up to that transfer, the camera and commentary would focus more on Bale, on his position in the Spurs squad and how it's in doubt. Then imagine a future in which Spurs end up playing Real Madrid, so Bale ends up playing against his old club … it's like the old story of when Sol Campbell left Spurs to join the Gooners, we're trying to capture that drama in Fifa matches."So we've created a Game Director tool now that tracks the heat maps for the players – who is hot, who isn't, who is going to overtake who to become the next talking point. This is all from the data that we seed the game with. If Lionel Messi is playing, he will be the focus, but if he misses a couple of chances, the commentary will take a very different stance. Or if [Andrés] Iniesta is on for a hat-trick, then the focus is going to start following him."Then we have some jaw-dropping camera technology with nice high pans over the stadium. There's also the fact that the crowds are now fully-realised 3D and exhibiting behaviours appropriate to what's going on. You'll see the crowd going nuts when a goal has been scored, but nothing from the supporters of the team that's just conceded. There are also sideline characters: interactions with the ball boys, for example."Is this all about adding to the atmosphere, or are there ramifications for the play?"One thing we didn't do a great job of showing off in the Gamescom presentation is the fact that there are no cuts in the game now. In the past, if the ball went out of play and we had to get the players down one end of the pitch for a corner, the camera would cut and we'd teleport all the players to the correct spots then bring the camera back up. Now everyone actually moves to where they need to be – we don't need to leave the game; everything keeps running under AI. If there are two balls on the pitch, say because one has gone out but bounced back in off the siding, a player will go across and kick it off. It's all just seamless."Is the player AI completely different for the next-gen consoles than it is for the current gen versions of the game?"Parts of it are brand new and parts of it are extensions. The actual footballing parts are mostly extensions, but a lot of the behavioural stuff is new, in particular what we call 'pro instincts', which I'd probably describe as the anti-collision system. Players try to avoid each other and any collisions that might end in them getting hurt – they brace for impact or swim around other players. That's all driven by a new physics system which is part of the player impact engine that we can't do on current consoles. The heading AI is also totally new because we can't run multiple players trying to head the same ball on current-gen machines. So those big bundles you get in the box – we can now do those, which is really nice. It's a lot of those things you take for granted in real football that you probably haven't noticed are missing from our game – that is coming now."So it sounds like we're going to get a lot more complexity and intricacy in interactions on pitch now."Yes. I was trying to describe this to someone earlier when they asked 'what's the best piece of advice you can give to someone when they're just starting to play the new versions of the game?' For me it's two things. You should use the shoot button to clear the ball, because now you'll get up and do a really good clearance header. And actually for the attacking team the new header system is great because you can actually poweranddirect it with the stick – you can actually aim the headers now. And also I'd say, you should master the new shooting, which is nice. The synergy of being able to run up and take a proper shot, do volleys and everything like that … it makes shooting extremely rewarding."Are there any differences in the shooting systems between current and next-gen machines?It's a shared technology, but a big part of the next-gen versions is the variety of animation. Shots will look a lot nicer. But the system is the same.So what do you think is the biggest change in thefeelof playing between the two generations?"Well, the most obvious change is the look of it – when we first started with it, we were sceptical about whether 1,080p would make much of a difference – it does. The resolution of the graphics is a lot better, but we're able to stay at 60 frames-per-second. It's super smooth and responsive."The other thing that may strike you if you're a veteran Fifa player will be the variety of animations, the believability of the actions and the outcomes – it's so well meshed together. The things that make you sit up and take notice are what I call the future physics, it's the pro instincts stuff, so the players avoiding each other … in previous Fifa's you had a player impact engine which gave you my catchphrase: 'a near limitless variety of outcomes'. But ultimately, that was a visual thing, you ran up to the leg and you either fell over it or you didn't. Now, what you can do is, the player will try to avoid hitting the other player, with a range of outcomes, so you have variety within the actual collision. You have these moments when a player will stumble but then keep his run going – it's so nice. The first time it happens to you, when you think you're going down but you don't and you get through on goal; or one of those moments when an attacking player has got past you, but you just manage to knock him off canter … all of those moments are really special."In the past, players of both Fifa and Pes have been able to find idiosyncrasies in the game engines, which can be used as exploits to score limitless goals from certain positions. With improving AI and physics, are those days over?"Probably yes, but at the same time I'm not naive enough to think that, after many hours of play, someone isn't going to be able to find something to exploit. In previous Fifas it's been Ronaldo at the front by himself, and then massive lofted through balls to him. We try to make sure stuff like that doesn't happen – indeed, we ended up pulling the demo on 360 and PS3 a while back because it had an exploit in it for near guaranteed goals. We have over 300 testers at the moment hammering the hell out of the game, plus the game team, plus extended sessions in the office among ourselves. It's a labour of love and we hate to think that stuff gets through. But going from 300 testers to a couple of million people getting the game at home … within 24 hours they've exceeded all the pre-release testing we've done. It's a scary proposition."Briefly, the Ultimate Team Legends feature, where you're providing 40 classic players in the Xbox one edition of the mode – did the whole team just get together and go through their old Panini sticker albums for inspiration?"It's a weird story. We've been talking about it for a while, and on the one hand, we wanted to make it appropriate for our fans, the vast majority of whom aren't going to appreciate a ton of players from the 50s and 60s – so we stuck mostly to the late 80s and 90s."The second part of it was ensuring that we covered as many countries as possible and all of the positions. Ultimately though, there are some stand-out characters who just make sense. A few years ago, someone asked me who was the most impressive footballer I'd ever actually seen play – and for me, Teddy Sheringham always sticks out. He had such an amazing awareness on the pitch, he outplayed people with his cunning and guile. But also as an England and Leicester City fan, I look at Gary Lineker and think, what a hero."But the funny part is, you talk to everyone, and they all have their own choices. So Legends started as an email thread and, oh my god, there were 60-or-so people arguing about who should or should not be on the list. There were some … humorous conversations."Can you add to the roster?"The plan at the moment is 40 will do for this year. As for the future, I don't know … But if it's successful, it's something we all feel passionate about."Finally, what do you think about the next-gen consoles as a development team?"We're dead lucky – the team that I work with is just the best, and we had stuff up and running very quickly. Both the systems are pretty good to work on. The brilliant part of it for us is that they have just opened the door to all this stuff we've not been able to do. The question around crowds has come up before: 'when are you going to have good crowds?!' There's nothing stopping us doing good crowds apart from the fact that other things have been more important – we've had to invest where it really matters to everyone. The football on the pitch has to be as good as it possibly can be. Now, we don't have to worry about prioritising things quite so much. We've basically done all the luxury items and we haven't had to stress about performance. With the next-gen consoles, it's basically down to, 'OK, what do wewantto do now?'
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).Digg (Free)Web 2.0 veteran Digg has been reinvented in recent times, promising to serve up "the most interesting and talked-about stories on the Internet", from blog posts to videos and social networking updates. Its app is one of a number jostling for position as replacements for Google Reader, enabling you to hoover up RSS feeds and share stories to social networks.Simon The Sorcerer (£2.70)A generation of gamers has fond memories of adventure game Simon the Sorcerer, which first came out 20 years ago. Now it's been revived for modern-day Android devices, with controls tweaked for touchscreens. As before, it sees novice pointyhat Simon dealing with "goblins, dwarves, swamplings, stupid wizards and sleeping giants".Repix (Free)Another photo-sharing app? Well, this is more about photo-editing: the emphasis with Repix is on what you do to your photos before sharing them to various social services. Filters, yes, but also "handcrafted effect brushes" to touch up your shots with more than 30 effects, and simple cropping and adjustments tools.Monster Match (Free)Monster Match got me hooked on holiday last week with its combination of match-three puzzling and Pokemon-style monster-collecting. It sees you finding and battling more than 225 beasties by matching gems, with plenty of nuances in balancing the various abilities and levelling up. The inspiration is fairly clear:Puzzle &amp; Dragons, currentlyone of the most lucrative mobile games in the world. But you can't yet play that here in the UK, so Monster Match is worth a look.Lego Mindstorms Commander (Free)Parents! If you've got £299.99 spare for the new Lego Mindstorms EV3 robotics kit for your children (or, indeed, for yourself) you'll be wanting to get the companion Commander app too. It's used as a touchscreen controller for the various robots (Ev3rstorm, R3ptar, Track3r, Spik3r and Gripp3r) that you can build from the kit, including the ability to create your own commands.Skylanders Cloud Patrol (£1.28)And in more parental-spending-warning news, here's the latest Skylanders game from Activision: a shooty action game that gets kids to blast troll characters and string combos together to boost their score as high as possible. As on other Skylanders games, children can also scan in the physical toys to play with them in the game.Siegecraft Defender (£1.92)Your Android device is surrounded by an army of tower defence games, edging in from every angle. Apt, really. Siegecraft Defender is the latest, from developer Crescent Moon Games, and it's very good indeed as lizardmen battle knights in the world of the Siegecraft games. Impressive graphics and plenty of depth help this stand out from the hordes of rivals.Lego Duplo Train (Free)More Lego, but this time it's the company's toddler brand Duplo providing the entertainment. Aimed at two year-olds, it's a colourful train-based game where they build their own trains, bridges and then drive around them.Flick Kick Field Goal 2014 (Free)I've had to uninstall the Flick Kick Football game several times after it got in the way of work, and developer PikPok has a good record with making other sports just as addictive too. This new Flick Kick Field Goal game focuses on American Football kicking, as you flick your balls (so to speak) to get as high a score as possible.Dark Nebula HD - Episode Two (Free)It's another good week for Android games, with this a sequel to developer Free Lunch Design's first episode of Dark Nebula HD. It's a ball-based puzzler where you tilt to move through 19 levels, with lots of obstacles and enemies trying to impede your progress.Quip (Free)Quip is a much-talked-about new word processing app for Android that – from this week – is available in the UK as well as the US. The schtick: it groups documents and messages about them in a chat-like "thread of updates", making collaboration clearer. It works across Android, iOS and desktop computers too.Lego Mindstorms 3D Builder (Free)The second of three Lego Mindstorms EV3 apps out this week alongside the kit itself: this is the instructions for actually building the five robots, with zoomable and rotatable 3D diagrams of every step in the process. Essentially it's a replacement for traditional printed instructions, to (hopefully) reduce your swearing as you build the bots for/with an expectant child.Pulse (£2)Pulse was excellent when it came out on iOS a while back, and looks just as impressive on Android. It's a musical game where "players become part conductor, part note-captor, part multi-touch master", tapping notes as they move around the circular environment. Hypnotic and rather marvellous.Ollie the Cat (Free)More fun for pre-school children here with Ollie, a cat who wants to help children learn to count by spotting animals in his garden. Narrated by a seven year-old – something that I've seen generally appeals to younger children – its illustrations have plenty of character. Soon, it'll get an extra Ollie's Colours story (bought via in-app purchase) to do the same thing for colours.Kairo (£3.15)More exploration and puzzle-solving here: Kairo sees you wending your way through "vast abandoned monuments" figuring out what's going on and why you're there. It's big on atmosphere rather than whiz-bang action, and all the better for it.Lego Mindstorms Fix Factory (Free)One last Lego Mindstorms app this week: this doesn't work with the real robotics kit, but is rather a puzzle game starring one of them, Ev3rstorm. It sees him exploring a factory looking for lost battery packs: a simple but fun-looking introduction to the new range.Cast To UPnP/DLNA for GMusic (Free)Google's new Chromecast dongle, Apple's AirPlay and other technology means slinging media from smartphones to other household devices is front of mind this year. Here's an app for streaming music from the Google Play service – including cloud lockers and the All Access subscription service – to devices that support UPnP/DLNA connectivity. In other words, Chromecast-like abilities for devices that can't be used with Chromecast.The Last Express (£3)Jordan Mechner is probably best known as the creator of Prince of Persia, but this is another of his games reworked for Android devices. Originally released in 1997 for PCs: an adventure on the Orient Express with a "maelstrom of treachery, romance, and international intrigue".Cats vs Dragons (Free)Not, as such, a fair fight. Or is it? Cats vs Dragons is an RPG-strategy game where the cats punch (claw?) above their wright, battling through a succession of towers duffing up dragons, looting Cat Coins and levelling up. It looks pretty fun, with in-app purchases used to boost your chances.Clipless (Free)Although more focused on the US and Canada, Clipless is available here in the UK too. It's a "contextual deal locator" that aims to ping you when there's a discount available at a business near your current location, hoovering up information from more than 2,000 separate discount sites.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Saints Row Iv (18+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (32)22 (2)Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Blacklist (18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (34)PC (2)23 (–)Final Fantasy Xiv: A Realm Reborn (16+)PS3 (63)PC (37)14 (3)Disney Infinity (7+)Xbox 360 (41)Wii (25)PS3 (23)Wii U (8)25 (4)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)106 (–)Rayman Legends (7+)Wii U (45)Xbox 360 (30)PS3 (24)PC (1)17 (–)Madden Nfl 25 (3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)18 (5)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii (18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (34)PC (1)Wii U (1)419 (18)Payday 2 (18+)Xbox 360 (85)PS3 (15)310 (6)Fifa 13 (3+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (31)VITA (11)Wii (4)4911 (7)Animal Crossing: New Leaf (3+)3DS (100)1212 (8)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (38)Wii (18)PS3 (17)3DS (12)6013 (9)The Last Of Us (18+)PS3 (100)1214 (12)Max Payne 3 (18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)PC (0)2315 (13)Lego The Lord Of The Rings (12+)Xbox 360 (42)PS3 (23)Wii (17)DS (9)3016 (15)Tomb Raider (18+)PS3 (52)Xbox 360 (43)PC (3)2617 (16)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (52)Xbox 360 (25)PS3 (15)3DS (4)3418 (11)Assassin's Creed Iii (18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (40)4419 (17)Grand Theft Auto Iv (18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (35)6220 (–)Need For Speed Most Wanted (7+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (42)VITA (13)PC (1)39UKIEGames Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Halo for Xbox One is called 'Halo 5' | CVG UKThis is the most popular story on CVG right now:Halo for Xbox One will be called Halo 5, if a new version of the game's E3 2013 reveal trailer is accurate.The news comes via Axis Animation, the company responsible for the reveal trailer. Posting on its official Facebook page, the organisation inadvertently revealed the name of the next Halo installment.No other details at present, of course.Reality Check - How Free-to-play Exploits your Brain | GameSpot.comAnother thought provoking video from Cam Robinson, this time the first in a two-parter about the psychology of free-to-play games:Effectively: "this is your brain; this is your brain on F2P games..."PAX: Mega Man Creator Announces Mighty No. 9 | IGNFans of classic 2D platforming rejoice:At PAX today, Mega Man creator Keiji Inafune announced Mighty No. 9, a new project seeking funding on Kickstarter.According to the project page, Mighty No. 9 features "classic Japanese side-scrolling action" in which the player takes on the role of Beck, "the 9th in a line of powerful robots, and the only one not infected by a mysterious computer virus that has caused mechanized creatures the world over to go berserk."Gameplay sound similar to Mega Man in that players "run, jump, blast, and transform your way through six stages" that can be completed in any order. Players will steal weapons and abilities from enemies they defeat, and Beck's "body itself can also reconfigure into new shapes, allowing for all kinds of new skills and abilities."Whore of the Orient title sparks potential Human Rights Commission complaint | VG247Some potential trouble for La Noire developer, Team Bondi, on its new game:City of Monash councillor Jieh-Yung Lo has called for Team Bondi to change the title of its next game, Whore of the Orient, and will take the matter to the Human Rights Commission if necessary.The Age reports Lo is acting privately, not in his role as councillor, in drawing attention to a case which may be brought before the Human Rights Commission on grounds of racial vilification. He has called on Team Bondi to change the title and halt development of the project, although as a gamer himself and an L.A. Noire fan, would be content with a new title."It's the use of the word 'Orient', more even than the word 'whore', that is the issue. The O-word is very similar to the N-word for African-American communities. It's a 19th century racial-colonial conception and it's especially painful for older people in the communities. That was a very bad time in China, and people don't want or need to have that dragged up," Lo said.Beyond live TV - what the Xbox One user interface means for gamersInteresting stuff on the Xbox one interface from Eurogamer and Digital Foundry:What was novelty - if technically impressive - technology on the original Kinect forms a fundamental basis of interaction with Xbox One, and from what we saw at Gamescom, parallels with Xbox 360 hold little water. Voice control on Xbox One actually works and it seems to be genuinely useful. It should be faster than using the joypad for certain functions, but ideally you'd use both in concert. And as for Xbox's isolation from the rest of the components in your system, that is now clearly a thing of the past.Other stuffGames we've heard about, things we're interested in...GameCity Modern Playing events announcedThe organisers of the brilliant GameCity festival are kicking off a series of touring events with talks and debates about game culture, as well as playable titles. It starts on 18 September atMAC in Birmingham.Toast Time trailerYoung UK studioForce of Habithas launched a trailer for its gorgeous retro shooter/tower defense hybrid Toast Time, a tribute to the heyday of Britsoft development:The game is released on Android devices on 5 September.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
"Phablets", the large-screened phones with screen sizes of between 5in and 7in diagonally, sold as well as tablets and laptops combined in the Asia-Pacific region during the second quarter, says research company IDC.Thenewsindicates that the smartphone business has created a new category lying between the standard smartphone and the tablet, first mapped out by Dell with itsStreakphone in June 2010, but subsequently capitalised on by Samsung with its Galaxy Note and successors.A total of 25.2m "phablets" shipped in the Asia-Pacific region (excluding Japan), compared to 12.6m tablets (over 7in) and 12.7m portable PCs, IDC said.Phablet shipments have grown dramatically - doubling between the first and second quarter, and rising sixfold compared to the same time last year.However Samsung's principal rival in the smartphone space, Apple, is unlikely to be able to capitalise on the popularity of phablets this year. Its new iPhones, expected to be unveiled this month, will be using the same 4in screen seen in last year's iPhone 5, according to leaks from the supply chain over the past few months. That suggests that it would not be able to introduce a "phablet"-style device before 2014 - even if it wants to.Analysts had foreseen the potential for 2013 to be "the year of the phablet" in January, after noting the rapid rise of the large-screened phones in 2012. That month saw China's Huawei and ZTE both launch their own versions at the Consumer Electronics Show. Taiwan's HTC has also followed with its own "Butterfly" model.Samsung more recently staked out the top end of the phablet space with its 6.3in Galaxy Mega, unveiled in April."Users have realised that a nearly 5-inch screen isn't such a cumbersome device," said Joshua Flood of ABI Research in January, and forecast then that countries such as Japan and South Korea, and then India, China and Malaysia, would be major markets for the larger devices.Neil Mawston of Strategy Analytics was more straightforward: "We expect 2013 to be the year of the phablet," he said in January.Flood's forecast has been borne out, with phablets accounting for 30% of all smartphone sales in India.The key beneficiary is Samsung, whose Galaxy Note range - due to be enhanced this week with the Note 3 on Wednesday - had nearly 50% of the market.But it has had to fight off rivals which have jumped onto the bandwagon. At its launch at the end of 2011, the Note had 90% of the much smaller phablet space.Theirpopularitypoints to a regional preference for larger screens which can be used to carry out work on the go, rather than separate functions to a smaller smartphone and larger tablet.The Asia/Pacific region, and especially China, are seen as a key battleground for the smartphone business as western markets such as North America and Europe move past the early burst of adoption, and sales growth there slows down. By contrast countries such as China, India and others are seeing rapid uptake."Phablets first started as a trend driven by mature markets like South Korea, Hong Kong and Singapore – and these markets continue to rise," said Melissa Chau, senior research manager for IDC's Asia/Pacific client device team. "What's changed now is the added pick up of phablets in emerging markets like China and India, not just the plethora of big-name vendors competing head-to-head with Samsung, but instead the low-cost local players who have swooped in to offer big screens for less money – averaging a retail price of US$220 versus Samsung's US$557."Dell lost out by being too early to the market with the Streak, introducing it at a time when most users had smaller phones with screens under 4in diagonally. But the rise in smartphone penetration, and the shift to more data-centric uses such as maps, has made big screens popular - particularly in countries where the device needs to serve multiple computing needs..
A burst of 14 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNissan self-driving cars by 2020 &gt;&gt; What Car?Nissan will have self-driving cars in showrooms by 2020, according to company boss Carlos Ghosn.Testing of cars that drive themselves, dubbed Autonomous Drive, is due to start in Japan next year, leading to several models with the technology going on sale six years later.The company claims that all of its Autonomous Drive models will be sold at realistic prices, and expects the technology to reduce accidents and help people with disabilities get on the road.This doesn't seem to be linked to Google - which would mean competition, and so choice, and so use.This is Samsung's Galaxy Gear smartwatch: a blocky health tracker with a camera &gt;&gt; VentureBeatChristina Farr:At about 3in diagonally, the Samsung Galaxy Gear smartwatch is quite large. Although its screen is square, large bezels on the top and bottom give it a chunky, rectangular shape, with rounded corners.The color is fairly basic — dark black and grey, although it may be enhanced in the final version. The wristband is clunky and masculine, large enough to hold speakers in the clasp. It's not heavy to hold, but it dwarfed my tiny lady wrists when I tried it on. Women may instead opt for a Misfit Shine, which isn't a watch but is a small jewel-like button.The smartwatch prototype has Bluetooth to connect with the Galaxy S family of smartphones and tablets, although it may also connect to all Android devices. It also has Wi-Fi for Internet access, including e-mail, even when it's not connected to a smartphone, but I didn't see that in action.Not forgetting the 3MP camera in the wristband. (This repeats the "10-hour battery life" spec seen last week.)Report: After patent loss, Apple tweaks FaceTime — and logs 500,000 complaints &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaApple has handed over its customer service logs from April through mid-August to VirnetX's attorneys. At the August 15 hearing, a VirnetX lawyer stated that Apple had logged "over half a million calls" complaining about the quality of FaceTime, according to Lease.If that's accurate, the data will bolster VirnetX's arguments that its patents are technologically significant, hard to work around, and deserve a high royalty rate. The judge and lawyers present at the hearing didn't discuss numbers regarding what a reasonable ongoing royalty might be, but VirnetX is asking for royalty payments of more than $700m for the ongoing use of FaceTime, according to Lease.Only one query on this: how do people complain about FaceTime call quality? It seems unlikely that people would make a Facetime call and then call Apple to complain.Major TV torrent site TheBox.bz calls it quits &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakOne of the internet's most-loved torrent sites for TV show content has decided to call it quits. TheBox.bz, a private site with around 90,000 members, will close its doors on Saturday. The site's operators inform TorrentFreak that they aren't reacting to any particular threat, but with City of London Police and other interested parties watching over the site, trouble is only just around the corner.BitTorrent is perfect for distributing all kinds of content, from movies to music and from software to backups. However, there is one particular type of content that users rarely seem to tire of.TV show downloading is a very popular pastime among file-sharers. The ability to grab almost any show from the present or even distant past and watch it at a time and place of a user's choosing is a powerful lure.They missed off "for free" as part of the attraction and "in breach of copyright" as part of the proviso.A Brief History of Apple's iWatch &gt;&gt; Anil DashA brief timeline of Apple iWatch's entrance to the market.September 10, 2013: As key members of the tech industry and trade press gather on a clear Tuesday morning, Tim Cook leads much of Apple's senior management in the introduction of a simple, wearable touchscreen device. Priced around $300, it immediately attracts complaints that it's too expensive, since wearable fitness devices are less than half the price; Supporters claim its support for a tightly-defined app platform differentiates it enough to justify the higher price.Get some coffee. Enjoy.As Android rises, app makers tumble into Google's 'matrix of pain' &gt;&gt; Wired.comRyan Tate:Navigating the matrix of pain is certainly doable. One developer likens it to writing PC software in the 1990s, when a programmer had to test against a handful of versions of the Windows operating system, along with scores of possible hardware configurations. But it means that writing Android software is significantly more complex than writing apps for iOS, where Apple keeps hardware configurations to a minimum and where the vast majority of users run the latest version of the operating system.And it's even more of a headache when compared to web technologies like JavaScript and HTML. These webby alternatives were supposed to replace native apps, letting developers write one version of software that runs on all devices. But consumers have largely rejected web apps.Developers who brave the matrix of pain often have to make some compromises.iOS and Android weaknesses allow stealthy pilfering of website credentials &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe so-calledsame-origin policyis a fundamental security mechanism enforced by desktop browsers, but the protection is woefully missing from many iOS and Android apps. To demonstrate the threat, the researchers devised several hacks that carry out so-called cross-site scripting (XSS) and cross-site request forgery (CSRF) attacks to surreptitiously download user data from handsets.The most serious of the attacks worked on both iOS and Android devices and required only that an end-user click on a booby-trapped link in the official Google Plus app. Behind the scenes, a script sent instructions that caused a text-editing app known as PlainText to send documents and text input to a Dropbox account controlled by the researchers. The attack worked against other apps, including TopNotes and Nocs.April 2013: What tens of millions of Q10 sales mean for BlackBerry ?? CrackBerry.com"We expect several tens of millions of units", said a confident BlackBerry CEO on camera. That's a huge statement to make, and from what we've seen of the man so far, he is a man of action. He is not one to exaggerate and make crazy promises.I've said it before, and I'll say it again. I think the Q10 is monumentally important as a cash cow for BlackBerry over the next year.Signs so far are that's not the case. The scary part though is the end of the post:If BlackBerry 10 sells north of 5 million per quarter (remember we now have the Z10 and the Q10 selling), I think analysts will be forced to massively raise their numbers.And we all know what that means to the stock, don't we?The stock tanked two months later when the quarterly results came out: BlackBerry had shipped 2.7m BB10 phones and made an unexpected loss.This is why there aren't enough women in tech &gt;&gt; ValleywagLast Friday, Valleywag published a post about the tech sector'sincreasing abuse of the term "culture fit"as a way to discriminate against potential hires who don'tmatch the patternof a successful startup employee. It prompted an outpouring of responses from readers about their own abysmal experiences with the euphemism.Must-read.Wall Street Journal digging reveals very weak Q10 demand &gt;&gt; CrackBerry.comChris Umiastowski says that Crackberry.com's own data relating to long-tail searches agrees: the BB10 phones haven't been a hit.It's actually hard to hit Google, search for anything related to BlackBerry, and not find a CrackBerry result near the top. As Kevin [Michaluk] points out, the surge of new visitors related to the Z10 and Q10 launch traffic has now disappeared. Traffic is back to where it was prior to the launch of BlackBerry 10. There's still a BIG audience on CrackBerry, it's just not growing the way you'd expect it to grow if a lot of people were buying and using their BlackBerry 10 phones on a continued basis (conversely, CrackBerry's sister site AndroidCentral.com is seeing this type of long tail growth on the back of the launch of the S4 and HTC One).Why Apple and Google can't sync right — and don't care if you suffer &gt;&gt; ReadWriteMatt Asay:I've dumped iCloud for everything but synchronization of Notes from my MacBook Air to my iPhone and iPad. It mostly works. Sometimes. Cloud is Apple's Achilles Heel.Which is why I have turned to Google to handle synchronization of my most important data across devices. But even Google's sync has started to falter, though in its case the problem seems to have less to do with technical ability and more to do with political maneuvering.Phablets account for 30% of all smartphones in India, 67% smartphones priced below $200 &gt;&gt; BGR IndiaRajat Agrawalj:Phablets or smartphones with displays between 5in and 6.99in accounted for 30% of all smartphones shipped in India in Q2, 2013, according to the latest IDC figures. Phablet shipments increased 17 times year-on-year with smartphone shipments hitting 9.3m units compared to just 3.5m units in Q2, 2012. The magic formula for India seems to be having a sub-$200 smartphone with a large display and dual-SIM slots.Local vendors continue to dominate the Indian smartphone space with Micromax shipping over 2m smartphones in the quarter making it the second largest player with a market share of 22% behind Samsung's 26% share. IDC claims that local vendors now account for over half of the total smartphone market in India.It's not a big market in volume terms, but the choice of phablets seems to point to a trend: countries with low PC penetration go for maximum screen sizes along with connectivity. Anecdotally, the Galaxy Note is very popular there.Nokia unveils its connected car platform: Here Auto — Tech News and AnalysisNokia head of location and of commerce and Here EVP Michael Halbherr – who will be speaking at GigaOM's Mobilize conference in October — recently sharedthe Finnish phone maker's broader connected car vision, which will eventually include autonomous driving and integrating the vehicle into future "smart city" networks. Today's release of Here Auto is its first step down that path.It's hardly the self-driving car, but it's Nokia entry into the growing field of internet-linked entertainment and navigation systems.Dell drops $299 Windows RT tablet, cheapest offer now $479 &gt;&gt; ITworldFrom mid-August:Shoppers who tried to buy a Windows RT tablet at Dell's website Friday morning would have seen one listed for US$299. By the end of the day the cheapest tablet came bundled with a keyboard for $479.Dell made several changes to the RT offers on its website. By Friday evening it had eliminated all the options for a standalone tablet and now only sells the product, called the XPS 10, bundled with a keyboard.In some ways it bucks a recent trend. Dell has been lowering prices for its Windows RT tablet since May, after the company admitted it was selling poorly. When it was introduced last October, the XPS 10 was priced at $499, and it had dropped to $299 in May.Two likely reasons: keyboards may make more profit for Dell (so make them non-optional); Windows RT is a car crash.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday! How was your weekend? What games did you play? All that stuff.
Broadband providers are being asked to create a database of customers illegally downloading music, films and books, which could be used to disconnect or prosecute persistent offenders.Measures to combat digital piracy will be among the topics discussed at a Downing Street breakfast on 12 September, when record-label bosses and their trade association, the BPI, have been invited to meet David Cameron.BT, Virgin Media, BSkyB and TalkTalk are being asked by music and film companies to sign up to a voluntary code for policing illegal downloading. Negotiations have been under way for months with the BPI and the British Video Association, whose members include the BBC and Hollywood studios.Between November 2012 and January this year, 280m music tracks were digitally pirated in the UK, along with 52m television shows, 29m films, 18m ebooks and 7m computer software or games files.The data, collected by the communications regulator Ofcom, suggests 18% of internet users aged 12 and over have recently pirated content, while just 9% fear getting caught. Last month, Breaking Bad was released to UK viewers on Netflix and iTunes within hours of its US airing in an apparent attempt to limit piracy.Studios and music labels want action now because the Digital Economy Act, which was created to combat piracy, has yet to be implemented despite being voted into law by parliament in 2010. Delays mean the act will not come into force until 2014 at the earliest, and could be pushed back until after the general election in 2015.A key part of any voluntary agreement is the creation of a database of repeat offenders. Initially, customers would receive letters from their broadband company saying their internet address had been used for illegal downloads.The letters could warn of consequences and direct internet users to legal sites selling music, videos and books. Those who received three such letters could face sanctions.Measures could include throttling internet connections to slow them down, blocking users from particular sites, disconnecting offenders from broadband for a limited period and ultimately prosecution. Broadband companies would need to keep a list of those customers they had sent letters to.There are concerns that such a database may be illegal under the Data Protection Act, which states companies can only retain information about individuals where it is needed for commercial purposes.Emma Hutchinson, a Virgin Media spokeswoman, said: "Music and film companies are speaking to broadband providers about how to address illegal file-sharing but what they're currently proposing is unworkable."In 2009 and 2010, Virgin Media voluntarily sent letters to customers who were reported by rights holders to be file sharing. However, the company did not keep a record of those who had received letters, or disclose their identity to any third parties.A spokeswoman for TalkTalk said: "We are involved in discussions about measures to address illegal file-sharing and ultimately would like to reach a voluntary agreement. However our customers' rights always come first and we would never agree to anything that could compromise them."Talks with the prime minister next week will cover a range of ways to support the music industry, including encouraging legal digital music sales in the UK and abroad, according to a spokesman for the BPI. He added: "The PM is a keen fan of British music and has invited some key industry figures to discuss how it can be further supported, both here and abroad... As concerns the Digital Economy Act, we will discuss with government the need for swifter action to reduce online copyright theft, improve consumer awareness of legal services and make the UK the leading digital economy in Europe."A spokeswoman for the Department for Culture, Media and Sport said the government would not force broadband companies to adopt any fresh measures. She added: "We are aware of industry discussions, and we would welcome a system that was effective and fair to consumers."
Pricefrom £58,500MPG31.4Top speed161mphThe hottest weekend of the year and I am sitting in the hottest car of the year. It's so hot (the weather, that is) that I've had to close the roof. That took just 12 seconds. But then everything aboutJaguar's new F-Typeis quick – except its genesis. It's taken years to arrive. If you were drumming your fingers waiting for Andy Murray's Wimbledon win or were irritated by Prince George's tardy entry, you'll be spitting biscuit crumbs over the F-Type's 39-year gestation.The gorgeous new roadster is the alphabetic successor to the iconicE-Type– the car once described byEnzo Ferrarias the "most beautiful ever made". But production of the E ended in 1974, sparking four decades of feverish speculation about the due date for an F among Jag-heads.The F-Type's interior.And now, at last, it's here. But what a buildup. The first time many of us saw the car was earlier this summer when Jaguar released a 13-minute"advert" starring Damien Lewis and the F-Type. It was shot by Ridley Scott Associates in Peru's Atacama desert – a car-heist withHomelandovertones – that also featured a soundtrack of throbbing exhausts and a lot of sighing. It was so knowingly trendy it had many Jag fans reaching for their angina pills. It also sent a clear message: Jaguar is cool, sexy and young. Pringle is dead! Long live Alexander McQueen!So, has Jaguar delivered on its promise? If you were hoping for some rehashed, heated-up simulacrum of the E-Type, you'll be gutted. If you've been waiting, credit card in hand, for a modern, muscular, dynamic driving machine, you'll be fist-pumpingly delighted.The 60s icon was all about grace and chappish Englishness, today's stocky F-Type has a much more forceful personality. Its hefty flanks bulge; its thin rear lights squint out of a&nbsp;chopped tail; its front lights scream back from a gaping Munch-like grille. It comes with a choice of three engines – a&nbsp;pair of 3-litre V6s with 340 or 380bhp and a 5-litre V8 "big daddy" with 495bhp. All are supercharged. Sports-car purists love a manual gear change, the F-Type only comes as an automatic, but they'll be happy with the crispness of the car's "Quickshift" eight-speed which leaves you to blip up and down the gears with your fingers on the steering-wheel paddles.Sunshine motoring: Martin and Kitty, his young co-pilot. Photograph: ObserverInside, it's leathery, roomy, posh. Of course it is, it's a luxury sports car. It also boasts a few "surprise and delight" details: copper is used for some of the buttons, instead of boring old chrome, and the air vents rise up out of the dashboard when you start the ignition, as if the car is coming alive. This same impression begins before you even get into the car. From a distance, press "open" on the fob and the door handles ease out from where they've been hiding, flush to the flanks. It's an Alice in Wonderland moment, as if the car is saying: "Open me." You climb in and there's a copper-coloured button saying: "Start me." Press it and… oooph… the… noise… it issoloud. Crackling, burbling, moaning, snapping – maybe you should call for an exorcist. Pull the gear lever into D and the F isoff!Will the Jaguar cope with the pressure of expectation? Will Murray win Wimbledon again? Will Kate have another baby? Yes, yes, yes.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.uk
Should you be looking for an example of hucksterish cynicism, then the mantra that "data is the new oil" is as good as they come. Although itsfirst recorded utterancegoes as far back as 2006, in recent times it has achieved the status of an approved corporate cliche, though nowadays "data" is generally qualified by the adjective "big". And if you want a measure of how deeply the cliche has penetrated the collective unconscious, ponder this: a Google search for "big data" turns up more than 1.5bn results. And a&nbsp;search for "data mining" turns up 167m results.The idea of big data as a metaphor for oil is seductive. It's also revealing in interesting ways. Given that the oil business is one of the biggest industries in the history of the world, for example, the metaphor hints at untold future riches. But it conveniently skates over the fact that oil wealth overwhelmingly benefits either ruling elites in corrupt and/or authoritarian countries, or huge corporations in democratic states.But at least oil is a physical, non-renewable resource that is extracted from the earth. Big data, on the other hand, is extracted from the activities of people and machines. As society becomes more and more networked, and as the so-called "internet-of-things" evolves, the amounts of data available to be "mined" will increase exponentially. And, unlike fossil fuels, these data reserves are infinitely renewable."Big data", says Kenneth Cukier, co-author ofthe best book on the subjectto appear so far, "will transform how we work, how we live and how we think". He argues that, at least in the case of data, "more is not just more; more is different", by which he means that quantitative abundance can lead to qualitative change. The availability of huge amounts of data turbocharges machine learning; for example, turning hitherto impossible tasks – like accurate, instantaneous language translation – into delivered realities.The key question about any major technological development is: who benefits? The answer in the case of big data is: huge corporations – the Googles, Amazons and Facebooks of this world, which are the only outfits (outside of the US National Security Agency) with the computational resources to mine, analyse and process the data torrents unleashed by us as we go about our networked lives. The companies don't talk about it this way, of course. Instead they have soothing patter about how their analytical capabilities enable them to serve you better: how the ability to analyse the web searches conducted by you and your friends enables them to provide better search results, for example; or how analysis of your online behaviour enables Amazon to suggest products that you might like; and so on.All true, of course, but skilfully avoiding the awkward fact that you are the resource that is being mined and that the playing field that is cyberspace is tilted in favour of the corporations who have come to dominate it.Which brings us to another aspect of the subject: open data. Since 2005, activists have been campaigning for "open government data" initiatives – demanding the publication of public datasets in machine-readable, freely reusable formats. The argument for this is impeccable: the data is collected by public bodies; it should therefore be available to the public that paid for it. The motivations behind the campaigns are likewise admirable: if the data is available, then civic-minded geeks can do useful things with it.The open government data campaigns have been surprisingly successful in both the US and the UK. Huge swaths of public data are now available. I can download a vast spreadsheet containing details of every contract worth more than £500 entered into by my local authority, for example. And in many cases, people have already developed useful services on top of public data. For example,busitlondon.co.ukprovides a helpful online tool for planning a journey by bus in London.There's lots more in that vein, and it's all good stuff. At first sight, therefore, open government data looks encouraging. But there are a couple of  flies in the ointment. The first is that there is a difference between open data andopengovernment. The current Hungarian administration, for example, has been quite good at publishing public data, but is morphing into one of the most secretive and authoritarian regimes in Europe.And then there's that awkward question again: who benefits? Certainly the public, to some extent. But there are signs that open government data favours private companies bidding for local authority contracts. The companies know what it costs the authority to collect the refuse, for instance; but their own finances are opaque, so it's impossible to judge whether they would really be more efficient than a public body.And the moral? Be careful what you wish for.
In keeping with the increasing cross-referencing between the two mediums, Tom Clancy's latest outing shares much with cliched blockbuster action movies, offering a fine trinity of troubled hero, geeky technician and over-the-top plot. But this isn't an all-out action game.Blacklistcan be played in two ways: sneaking through each level or blasting to victory, a dual concept that exists in&nbsp;every mode, including the tricky side-missions and&nbsp;excellent Spies vs Mercs multiplayer.At times this works perfectly, with satisfying stealth mechanics sitting alongside epic action set pieces. And there are plenty of missions and gadgets to unlock, which will delight seasoned fans. Yet there's also frustration here, fiddly controls and occasional poor level design contributing to mission failures through no fault of the player. All of which makeBlacklista perfectly decent experience, if not quite a great one. Just like most modern action movies then…
Extending the olive branch to a generation of playthings from before the rise of virtual entertainment, the latest from Disney melds the worlds of physical toys to the digital, similar to the hugely popularSkylandersseries from Activision. To play, the Starter Pack is required, containing the game, Disney figurines (the Incredibles, Monsters Inc etc) and a base. The base scans the toys to unlock various elements of the game, with more toys available to open more features, a potential money sink that will make parents shudder. The games themselves are perfect action-adventure fodder for youngsters who have a soft spot for Disney's contemporary output, distinct from their rival – offering more interesting gameplay thanSkylanders– yet implemented with less grace. That said, the world-building Toy Box mode, which lets players create their own adventures, is a particular highlight.
The icon of arcade gaming finally makes&nbsp;its way to Wii U in the form ofThe New Challengers. Best enjoyed with two-players, this is a tweaked version of theStreet Fighter IIthat caused so much excitement on its release back in 1993. The&nbsp;Wii U conversion offers a solid port&nbsp;of a fantastic brawling game, that is&nbsp;well matched to the console's controller, and packed with much to master. The omission of an online mode&nbsp;is a disappointing limitation, but&nbsp;for a budget price (£5.49) and a chance to revisit the glory days of old-school gaming it is worth every penny.
Touch is possibly the most important sense when it comes to deciding whether a car is to be liked or not. I'm thinking about the parts of me that are in contact with this one. My bum and back, for a&nbsp;start, and yeah, they're feeling pretty good – supported not just from underneath and behind but from the sides as well. I am cupped cosily, in other words, to prevent me&nbsp;from going straight on when the car goes left or right. I suppose it shouldn't come as a surprise that Seat makes a good seat, just as Fords&nbsp;have always been just about peerless when it comes to crossing rivers… Shush.My hands next, and the news is mostly good. The leather-clad wheel&nbsp;is small, chunky and nicely grippy, and flat along the bottom to&nbsp;make you feel a teeny bit like Lewis Hamilton. My left hand, however, would like to have more to&nbsp;do, its owner being an old-fashioned sort of chap who thinks a&nbsp;hot hatch should be a manual. But&nbsp;this car only comes with a seven-speed double-clutch automatic direct-shift gearbox.There are flappy paddles for manual shifting on the steering wheel if you really do think you're Hamilton, but I&nbsp;didn't get along brilliantly with them. I'd&nbsp;like a stick shift, plus that would give my left foot something to do too. My left limbs are bored.Otherwise I do like the feel of Seat's sportiest Ibiza (ibeefier? NO!). It may only have a 1.4-litre engine, but it's turbocharged and supercharged to give 178bhp and to&nbsp;keep that lovely cuppy seat pushing into my back through the range. It handles well too, and stays sitting flat on the road when you turn that nice grippy leather flat-bottomed wheel.And the other senses, briefly? To&nbsp;look at, quite sharp I think, with&nbsp;a&nbsp;few hints – a black honeycomb grille, central exhaust – that this car has a bit of a temper on it, if provoked. Not that it needs to be provoked; it will pootle quite happily too – my nervous mum remained blissfully unaware of all those horses waiting to be unleashed. If you do, though – unleash the horses – the high-revving engine sounds rather&nbsp;pleasing.That leaves taste and smell. Well,&nbsp;I&nbsp;licked it of course, and it tasted of London. And the other sort? Quite tasteful, I think. Perhaps&nbsp;too tasteful. I like a hot hatch to have more of a boy (or girl) raciness about&nbsp;it – more Southend. Inside, it's just a little bit ordinary, and plasticky, which is how it smells. Unless you spend an extra £800 on&nbsp;leather seats, in which case&nbsp;it will&nbsp;smell – more pleasingly – of dead cow.Seat Ibiza CupraPricefrom £18,765Top speed142mphAcceleration0-62mph in 6.9 secondsCombined fuel consumption47.9mpgCO2emissions139g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating7/10
Killer Is DeadFrom Suda51, the man behind oddities like Killer7 and No More Heroes, comes another surrealist action game. You play Mondo Zappa, whose robotic left arm has its own name and who's been recruited by Bryan's Execution Firm. The plot follows them on their contracts as they set out to kill monsters and bad men. The supernatural sword and gunfights are broken up by disturbing "gigolo missions" where you seduce women by staring at their breasts when they're not looking.PS3, Xbox 360Deep Silver, £34.99- £37.99Plants Vs Zombies 2: It's About TimeZombies are having another go at invading your house. In the long-awaited return of the world's most fervently loved tower-defence game, your front lawn has become the final battleground between the undead and your brains. Importing plenty of ideas from the original, you'll also discover numerous new game modes, different fighting plants and ways to play in your journey through time in pursuit of Crazy Dave's taco. Perhaps PVZ2's biggest source of amazement, however, is that it's free and almost perversely generous with its coinage and bonuses, rendering in-app purchases – often the bane of freemium games – a purely optional luxury. It's a masterpiece.iPad, iPhonePopcap, freeDishonored: The Brigmore WitchesThe Brigmore Witches finishes the story of Daud The Assassin, who's been busy since he killed the empress and kidnapped the heir to the throne. Its four chapters include a return to Coldridge prison along with two new areas of the game's beautifully gothic city. Inventive storylines, brilliant level design and a satisfying finale that harks back to your earlier actions, make this an essential upgrade for lovers of Dishonored.PC, PS3, Xbox 360Bethesda, 800 MSP (Xbox), £7.43-£7.99ALSO OUT THIS WEEKThe Wonderful 101(Wii U), a strange but wearyingly repetitive fighting game where you manage a tiny crowd of heroes and passers-by to issue beatings on your behalf;Rayman Legends(Xbox 360, PS3, PC, Vita, Wii U) supplies more colourful, Gallic multi-player platform hopping;Pokémon Rumble(Wii U) is a freakishly dreadful button-mashing arena fighter designed to sell Pokémon figurines, which you have to buy to unlock the most powerful iterations of your monsters; fellow plastic toy-shifter,Disney Infinity(Xbox 360, PS3, PC, Wii U, 3DS) does at least have a game attached, albeit one that's fraught with bugs and general signs of nobody caring; whileRugby League Live 2: Game of the Year(Xbox 360, PS3) andMadden NFL 25(Xbox 360, PS3) let fans of sports involving egg-shaped balls indulge their own peculiar passions.
Alex Macgillivray, the key figure responsible for Twitter's aggressively pro-free speech position, has announced he is to leave the company.The Harvard-educated lawyer is little known outside a small crop of Silicon Valley executives and internet advocates. Known to colleagues as "A-mac", Macgillivray is described as Twitter's conscience-in-residence and credited with turning the social network into one of the fiercest defenders of user privacy in cyberspace.He announced his departure on Friday, onTwitterand also on his ownblog. He said he would be replaced by Viyaya Gadde, a member of Twitter's legal team."I am proud to have worked with colleagues who defend and respect the user's voice; who push freedom of expression and transparency; and who innovate and lead," he wrote. "It has been my privilege to work and fight on behalf of great companies and their users over the last decade. A privilege and a lot of work. So, I'm looking forward to engaging my various internet passions from new and different perspectives."Macgillivray did not indicate where he might move to, but his decision to leave Twitter comes after a period of intense scrutiny over its systems for reporting abuse. It will leave the industry wondering whether Twitter may now have a less robust defence against government requests for user data, and compromise its position on free speech and privacy online.'The free speech wing of the free speech party'Macgillivray, who has characterised Twitter as "the free speech wing of the free speech party", joined the company from Google in September 2009. Then, mundane issues involving trademark and impersonation law were the most frequent to trouble his small team in midtown San Francisco. But as the social network has grown – it now has 200 million registered users – so have the issues it confronts.In the past 24 months, Macgillivray has fought US attempts to gain access to the private messages of Occupy protesters and Wikileaks activists. In India, the company has faced government pressure to curb "inflammatory" tweets. In the UK, he was summoned before MPs to rebut claims that Twitter was used to fuel riots across England in summer 2011.According to his former Harvard law school professor, Jonathan Zittrain, Macgillivray "thrives in high-pressure environments, even as – or especially because – his presence tends to ratchet down the drama."In January 2011, Macgillivray penned an ode to freedom of expression with Biz Stone, Twitter's co-founder, under the headline: "The Tweets Must Flow." Posted against a backdrop of rebellion on the streets of Tunisia and Egypt, the 410-word article put the case for unfettered tweets."I think Alex is one of the few attorneys I know who routinely tries to, and often does, hack the law and use technology to make the law work for people," said Cindy Cohn, legal director of the internet rights group Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF). "He thinks about how best to use the current law and technology to bring about a more fair and honest arrangement for Twitter, its employees and its users. That's not easy and he does it well."Last summer, Macgillivray was faced with a crisis that went to the heart of his pledge to "let the tweets flow". The company admitted in a blogpost that it had encouraged the US broadcaster NBC, its partner during the London Olympics, to file a formal complaint about the journalist Guy Adams that led to his account being suspended.Adams had posted the corporate email address of an NBC executive, alongside a string of pointed tweets about the company's Olympics coverage. When it emerged that Twitter had proactively monitored Adams' tweets before encouraging its partner to file a formal complaint, the social network was accused of commercially-induced censorship.Two weeks later, Adams received a surprise telephone call from Macgillivray. "Apart from him I didn't have a single contact from anyone at that company," said Adams. "I couldn't quite work out what he wanted to achieve from the conversation except to listen to what I had to say. He was very affable – the sort of guy you could spend a very enjoyable afternoon at the baseball with – and just asked for advice on how not to screw up in the future."He added: "Most companies grown organically over decades, but Twitter has grown exponentially in the space of a few years and frankly I think the head doesn't know what the backside is up to. Twitter finds itself slightly outpaced by the news agenda and I suppose he's trying to play catch up a lot of the time."More recently, Twitter has avoided being dragged into controversy surrounding the National Security Agency (NSA) surveillance program, Prism. The company was not named in leaked NSA slides that claimed Google, Microsoft and othes had cooperated with Prism, although those companies have repeatedly denied all knowledge of the program.A tech backgroundLike many of the technology sector's most prominent lawyers, Macgillivray got his grounding at Google. He spent eight years in Mountain View, becoming the company's primary attorney for key products including web search and Gmail – and later its controversial plans to scan millions of out-of-print library books.Zittrain described Macgillivray as a star pupil with a "wonderfully droll" sense of humour, who was "very much aware of the power of software code, not just legal code". At Harvard, Macgillivray co-programmed software so the university could experiment with distance learning. His experimental hacking – which he did with Wendy Saltzer, the widely-respected internet lawyer and policy counsel at the World Wide Web Consortium – was not his first."I distinctly recall trying without success to keep up with the news on internet-related legal developments that was coming fast and furious," said a former colleague, David Kramer, a copyright lawyer at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich and Rosati (WSGR). "Alex always seemed a step ahead. Why? Because he was using a specialised news aggregation tool that he had coded himself."Twitter's 'grave, crushing responsibility' as a gatekeeperThe challenges and opportunities Macgillivray faced at Twitter were great and many. The Adams saga underlined the dangers ahead as the company multiplies and enhances its relationships with commercial firms, like NBC or the mobile network EE. It remains to be seen whether Twitter can truly pledge to "let the tweets flow", independent of business pressures – particularly with a hotly-anticipated public flotation on the horizon.According to Zittrain, the company's ability to instantly take down any message brings with it a "grave, even crushing" responsibility, overrun with contradictory demands. He suggested that Twitter could go further to install its values, including by structuring private direct messages so that it cannot readily scan and produce them for governments. Or, for example, separating its commercial unit from the rest of the company, in the spirit of a church-state divide.Under new general counsel Vijaya Gadde, the company must turn those challenges into opportunities, and set a standard for best practice that others will follow."I couldn't be happier with her appointment," Macgillivray said, as Gadde pledged to "continue to defer users around the world". Macgillivray will bow out slowly, handing the workload to Gadde, who is well liked in the company, if less strident in her views on free speech and the rights of Twitter's users.Despite Silicon Valley gossip pointing to a reorganisation of Twitter's legal department, a tension between Macgillivray and chief executive Dick Costolo, and a desire to leave before the administrative burden of Twitter's IPO next year, the general counsel's departure is largely amicable."Things at Twitter often move at the speed of thought," said Kramer. "There can be instant, worldwide attention and feedback on any action the company takes or fails to take. That puts enormous pressure on the team."Of course, when they get things right, as they invariably do, their decisions and the example they set echo throughout the Twitterverse and beyond."
Concerns that struggling smartphone company BlackBerry will not survive in its present form appear to be hurting sales of its new phones, both to businesses and retail customers.Investment bank Morgan Stanley is delaying a multimillion pound contract to upgrade to BlackBerry's latest smartphones amid concerns the company will not survive,according to the Bloomberg wire service, which quoted internal sources.Meanwhile, industry sources in the UK say the new phones – the touchscreen Z10, introduced in January, and keyboard-based Q10, which went on sale in April – "haven't exactly flown off the shelves". In the US, the Wall Street Journalreportedthat carrier executives and US retailers called sales of the Q10 "dismal", with one multi-store owner seeing virtually no demand.The revelations come just weeks after the company announced it hadput itself up for saleas part of a decision to "explore strategic options".Morgan Stanley, with 55,600 staff, is sticking with its existing handsets using the older BB7 software from 2011, Bloomberg said, and has not made any strategic plans to upgrade despite their age.BlackBerry phones are popular inside financial and government organisations because of the encryption applied to data, including email metadata, and their physical keyboard. Some Canadian banks are testing BB10 phones, including Royal Bank of Canada in the company's home country. The Pentagon has also cleared the phones for use on its internal network.But growing concerns that it could hit a cash crunch or that carriers will decline to sell its phones – along with growing downward pressure on the price it can charge for its services – has led some businesses to hold off from sizable purchases."Tech is a confidence game," said Douglas Pollitt, who runs the independent brokerage firm Pollitt &amp; Co, which holds BlackBerry stock. "If there is no confidence in the company, the company won't sell gear."BlackBerry is just completing its fiscal quarter, which ends on 31 August, and will report on 27 September. Chief executive Thorsten Heins forecast in June that the company would make an operating loss in the quarter, following on from a net loss of $80m last time on sales of $3.1bn.He also revealed that it had shipped just 2.7m BB10 phones in that period, out of 6.8m total, as handset shipments slumped from a high in late 2011 of 14.9m.The Q10 made a strong start in the UK when it wassold exclusively through Selfridges, with thousands being snapped up within hours by business customers, in some cases for immediate export to the Middle East.But some customers have since suffered software problems with the handset, leading to returns in some cases.The company is trying to remake itself as a software and services company and is preparing to broaden its BlackBerry Messaging (BBM) service, previously exclusive to its own phones, to Apple's iPhone and handsets running Google's Android software.A Morgan Stanley spokesperson declined to comment on the report.A BlackBerry spokesperson said: "We don't break out specific device numbers, just a total overall figure we disclose in our quarterly earnings. In terms of the below Bloomberg report, we don't comment on rumour or speculation."
From strict privacy policies to its origins in Israel, there are a few things that distinguish Viber, the upstart free calls and messaging application, from its more established rival Skype. But the feature its 200 million international followers seem to appreciate most is the stickers.A selection of images that can be texted as an alternative to written messages, the stickers available include love hearts, a red rose, the obligatory LOL, and the controversial middle finger hand gesture. There have been outraged calls for its removal.Viber founder Talmon Marco is listening. "It will not be available by default with the next release of Viber," he says.Having begun life three years ago in the Israeli iPhone app store, before going international and onto other mobile platforms including Android, Blackberry and Windows,Viber took the fight to Skype's home turf by launching a desktop version in May. Downloads onto personal computers are already in the millions.Speaking from Singapore, Marco is busy preparing the next two important milestones. The first is a sticker store. While this may not sound momentous, it represents the company's first foray into money making.The app and all its current services, including calls between Viber users, will remain free. But in order to transform itself into a real business, Viber must search for revenues."We announced earlier this year that we will start monetising. The first thing we are going to announce is a sticker store, but we will be introducing additional paid services as early as this year."The second development, which is already being tested in Saudi Arabia, is technology that can stop Viber being blocked. During its rapid expansion, Viber has occasionally met resistance from both mobile networks and some of the more authoritarian states.For some time, manyVodafone customers have been unable to use Viber without disruption, particularly those on pay-as-you-go tariffs, says Marco. Mobile operators have previously voiced concerns about free calls and messaging apps as athreat to their own revenues.And there has been government opposition. Iran, Syria and Lebanon have all lifted previous blocks on Viber, but the service was recently barred by the Saudi Arabian authorities. Marco says the ban was introduced after Saudi officials indicated toSkype, Viber and the popular messaging service Whatsapp that they would be blockedif they did not agree to be monitored.Social networks have allowed unprecedented freedom to communicate in Saudi Arabia, propelling a steep adoption curve. They are also relied on by the nation's many foreign workers as a cheap way to keep in touch with families abroad."A few days ago we launched a test of Viber with enhanced connectivity," says Marco. "This version allows users to connect in places where Viber is blocked. At present we have several thousand users in Saudi Arabia that can access Viber despite the local ban. Once the technology is rolled out, we will likely roll it out to Vodafone UK users as well."Marco says he is serious about the right to communicate, and the ability to do so in privacy. Viber's policy is that if it receives a proper subpoena, it will provide records of who made and received calls, and when, but that no content from those conversations will be shared.He says Viber does not "have the capability to listen to conversations". Messages are stored, for two weeks or until they are opened by the recipient, whichever is shorter. Around 80% are deleted in less than a second. The messages are encrypted, and Marco says he has never handed the encryption key to any government."We have been asked if we would co-operate. We never provided anybody with anything that will let them listen to conversations or messages on Viber. I do believe people should take notice of the fact that the Saudi government has threatened three companies with shutdown of service – us, Skype and Whatsapp. Only one company was shut down. Users should ask themselves why the other companies were not shut down."In fact, Marco has himself been accused by at least one blogger of being an agent of the Israeli state. The rather sketchy claims are based on his military career. He spent four years in the Israel Defence Forces, rising to chief information officer of the central command.But Viber was funded entirely by what Marco refers to as "friends and family". "We never took a single dollar from the state of Israel, we are not even incorporated in Israel. We maintain a research and development centre in Israel and that's it."For now, Viber is growing quickly. With just 120 staff, based in Cyprus and Belarus as well as Marco's homeland, the app is being downloaded by more than 500,000 people a day and reached 200m downloads in May. Last time Viber released information on usage, in February, it was carrying 3bn minutes of calls and 12bn text messages every month. It has some way to go to catch up with Skype – which in April announced 2bn calls a day.But on the mobile phone, if the iPhone app store reviews are to be believed, Viber is better liked. Skype's transition to mobile has been rocky, with users complaining the service crashes. Most give Skype a one-star rating on iPhone, while Viber receives the maximum of five stars from most of its reviewers.Time will tell whether revelations by the Guardian and other media about the extent of Skype's cooperation with intelligence agencies will harm its business. But Marco believes individuals should care."Personally, I would be concerned being on a service knowing that everybody can listen to my conversations," he says. "People should be concerned about their privacy."
Age:27.Appearance:Constantly obscured by a hideous-looking pair of futuristic  cyberglasses.Is she an inventor? Or from the future? No wait – she's a cyborg!Not quite. She's the Google Glass marketing manager.Oh.And reportedly, Sergey Brin's new girlfriend.Oh.Sergey Brin the co-founder of Google? Lucky her. I wonder what she could have possibly seen in the multi-billionaire techno-omnilord.You're being very cynical today. By all accounts, Rosenberg seems like a pretty interesting person.Really?Well, she was born in Hong Kong,  moved to Britain and was educated at the  same school as Kate Middleton and Princess Beatrice ...Hmm …Then she upped and moved to San Francisco all by herself, which demonstrates considerable bravery. Most importantly, she seems to have a good sense of humour. Or at least,she once openly mocked a bag for  having "LOVE" written on itwhich, admit it,  is quite endearing.Ah, she has an online presence. How does she describe herself?The word "misanthrope" comes up quite a lot. As does "Chew" – Chinese Jew – which was apparently used in her Google+ profile at some point, before it was replaced with a giant photo of herwearing a pair of Google Glass spectacles.She's got a Google+ page too? No wonder she's a misanthrope.Steady on. She is going out with a billionaire, after all.A married billionaire with two kids, to be  fair.Yes, there is that. Although Brin and his  wife have reportedly been living apart for a number of months, so there's no suggestion  that she's directly responsible for any sort  of breakup.Well then. She's happy. He's happy. His wife  will presumably get some sort of colossal  payoff. Everyone's happy.She does still have  to wear those horrible glasses every day,  though.Yeah, that sucks.I know. It must be like having a Segway stuck to your face.Do say:"OK, Glass."Don't say:"Can I take these off now, Sergey?"
When they emerged several years ago, free-to-play video games were dismissed as too good (or, perhaps more accurately, too bad) to be true – worried traditional publishers contended that they weren't up to the standards of paid-for games and, anyway, they weren't really free. But free-to-play games now dominate on mobile and tablets, and every week, new evidence emerges that they are also usurping paid-for games on the consoles and the PC.Recently, for example, EA's COO Peter Moore announced that all its traditional franchises will embrace free-to-play in the future, and there was widespread surprise that Bethesda Softworks' state-of-the-art massively multiplayer online (MMO) game, The Elder Scrolls Online, will take the subscription, rather than free-to-play, route.But is free-to-play really as irresistible as the name suggests? Can it really offer a credible alternative to traditional games? And are British developers at the forefront of the free-to-play revolution?RuneScape, the grandaddy of free-to-play MMOsOne unmistakably British game certainly sits at the very top of the free-to-play MMO tree. RuneScape, developed by Cambridge-based Jagex, has been operating since the dimly remembered (and pre-pervasive broadband) days of 2001. In that period, over 220 million player accounts have been set up. Jagex won't say how many of those are currently active, but according to the company, "millions" of people play it every month.In the past, hardcore gamers dismissed RuneScape as primitive – it plays much like a role-playing game (RPG), but had vastly inferior graphics to paid-for games like The Elder Scrolls. But it has just undergone the most ambitious revamp in its history (moving from Java to HTML 5) and the result, RuneScape 3, is much more akin to a paid-for game graphically, even though it still runs in a browser.Executive producer Phil Mansell says Jagex's technological leap of faith has been a success: "There's been an amazing response both from our established community and lots of new players starting their adventure in RuneScape 3. An interesting side-effect was that we've seen a surprising amount of old accounts being reactivated."The joy of RuneScape 3 lies in its sheer diversity – you can build up your character by taking increasingly complex missions, just potter around in the virtual world crafting and trading items or even auto-generate dungeons and quest your way through them. Perhaps the update's most impressive feature, though, allows the most committed players to take part in mass events, then vote on where they would like to see the storyline go.Mansell elaborates: "The Battle of Lumbridge event has been the most popular content we've ever released, despite it being the first time we've attempted mass-participation gameplay on this scale. It's very empowering for players to choose the outcome of a world-defining story event; the gameplay is straightforward yet social; and it has good rewards that players can collect each day. It's now three weeks since launch and we've had well over 150 million votes cast over the future direction of the storyline; currently, I can see the righteous armies of the god Saradomin are winning by 20 million votes. During launch week, we had over 100,000 more new players than we'd normally see, and around 40,000 lapsed accounts reactivating."Not necessarily free, but user-ledWhile RuneScape 3 is enormously loved and insanely popular, it does highlight the fact that free-to-play, when it works, is a misnomer. When RuneScape launched in 2001, just after the internet bubble burst, Jagex abandoned its plans to make it advertising-supported in favour of making it subscription-based. Mansell is proud that: "Unlike most free-to-play games, the majority of the people playing right now are paying members."Although you could spend hundreds of hours playing RuneScape 3 without paying a penny, its most esoteric features, such as the mass events, require a subscription. So the free-to-play aspect is more a means to let you try before you buy.RuneScape also differs from many free-to-play games – particularly German and eastern European-developed ones – in that it won't let you pay your way to a levelled-up character. Mansell says that attitude is central to Jagex's philosophy: "RuneScape has always been about progression and achievement, and allowing players to buy their way through that would undermine the essence of the game. A game's free-to-play mechanics need to be sympathetic to its core gameplay, and the motivations which drive its players. If a game's business model hurts gameplay integrity and creates friction, it'll struggle to get committed players and establish a healthy community."That, he says, is the key to the game's success: giving the players what they want: "The days of 'ship it and move on' are now over; engaging with your players and being responsive to their needs is a necessity now. Listen to your player community, embrace their ideas and understand their concerns. But also accept that you cannot please everyone. There is a natural tension between the needs of veterans and those of new players."Celtic Heroes: bringing RuneScape values to mobileAnother British free-to-play game has made waves recently: Celtic Heroes, created by One Thumb Mobile, has been available for iOS since 2011, garnering over a million downloads. Free-to-play, of course, is the norm on mobiles and tablets, but what makes Celtic Heroes stand out is that it runs in 3D, and feels very much like a full-blown RPG. Lead Designer Paul Simon – tellingly, he previously worked for Jagex – explains its appeal: "What sets Celtic Heroes apart from other MMOs is the fact that we are on a handheld platform – we have a fully 3D, open-world MMORPG custom-designed for handheld devices. Unlike traditional MMOs, it is designed to run with poor network connections, on limited devices, and the gameplay can be experienced both in short five-minute play sessions and multi-hour sessions."Giving it the soft-sellTalking to British free-to-play MMO developers, a theme emerges, which seems in keeping with the reserved national character: employing Machiavellian devices to get players to pay for in-game items is frowned upon. Simon explains One Thumb Mobile's approach to monetising Celtic Heroes: "We decided right from the start that our focus would be on player satisfaction, rather than monetisation – we have always pursued a light monetisation strategy, allowing almost all of our premium purchases to be traded within the game, giving our players the choice to invest their time or their money."He contends that the ability to trade in-game purchases is key to "levelling the playing field between payers and non-payers. Although some of our highest-level, most dedicated players have spent hundreds of hours in the game without spending a single penny."Diversity and developer controlFree-to-play MMOs aren't just about Dungeons &amp; Dragons-style fantasy role-playing, as a new British effort, just establishing a reputation for itself, proves. Auto Club Revolution is the latest racing game from long-established developer Eutechnyx, but unlike its previous games (primarily for consoles), it's free-to-play and runs in a browser. Dan Robinson, Eutechnyx's marketing manager, says: "About five years ago, Darren Jobling, our CEO, sat down and thought about where racing games are going, and also looked at the popularity of Facebook games. He wanted to make something that brings the two together, and adopted the Korean free-to-play model."Robinson admits that another motivation was that Eutechnyx, a developer, would be able to self-publish if it took the free-to-play MMO route, and the company began work on Auto Club Revolution.In quality terms, it's highly impressive, and rewards players for essentially forming clans – collective Auto Club achievements reward all members. Auto Club Revolution majors on cutting-edge design, with desirable machinery and impressive renditions of the world's finest race-tracks, but it does adopt a slightly harder-sell approach to monetisation. At least it does that through clever structure – as you rank up, you open up more races, but you have to race an awful lot to earn the necessary rewards to buy the cars which would speed up your progress. However, an in-game currency called E-bucks lets you use real money to buy cars, upgrades and so on. Robinson says that on average, Auto Club Revolution players spend about £21, which is still less than the average paid-for game.Free-to-play in the futureSo, is free-to-pay poised to usurp paid-for as the model of choice across the games industry? Certainly, the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 contain more free-to-play-friendly features than previous consoles – Sony's purchase of the Gaikai streaming games technology, for example, will enable PlayStation 4 owners to try games before they buy them, and Microsoft is building similar cloud-based services into the Xbox One.Jagex's Mansell acknowledges that, but has reservations: "This coming generation of consoles is finally taking a step forward in being open to free-to-play. But will it be enough? For all of their high-technology and talk of innovation, I worry that the console manufacturers' desire for tight control and a continued reliance on retail could hold back real innovation in business models. It would be a great shame if they continued to be behind the curve in free-to-play gaming."One Thumb Mobile's Simon, meanwhile, cautions against the industry embracing free-to-play too enthusiastically: "The free-to-play MMO market is already quite crowded, with many studios continuing to push out games at a breakneck pace and of varying quality. As the market matures, free-to-play titles will need to increase in quality, as players get more picky about the games that they play, and this is why we are constantly expanding the team and investing our revenues back into the game."You could argue that free-to-play is a lazy example of naming – a more accurate description of games like RuneScape 3, Celtic Heroes and Auto Club Revolution would be "pay-while-you-play", as the model essentially cuts out the initial £30 to £40 outlay, and lets you decide whether you like a game before you start getting stuck into it. But whatever you see fit to call it, that model is here to stay.
Twitter users will now be able to report individual tweets for abuse or spam in an attempt to clamp down on online harassment.The microblogging service has extend the functionality for Android and users of twitter.com ahead of schedule,announcing the update on the Twitter blog, and the move was heralded by recent victims of online attacks includingCaroline Criado Perez who was subject to rape and bomb threats.This follows a move to crack down on abusive behaviour –earlier this monthTwitter also updated its rules and said extra moderation staff had been put in place to handle abuse reports. The ability to report individual tweets has already been made available for iPhone users.Guardian readers have also beenmaking other suggestions for potential solutions to online trolling and threats of violenceon the social network including increased moderation, higher barriers for entry and a paid-for filtering service.whosaysiKant31 July 2013 3:30pmIt is also a very easy, quick anonymous broadcasting medium. The morons posting these vile tweets could instead cold call women from a landline and hide their number so they couldn't be traced but that involves a much higher degree of hassle than a quick comment bashed out on their mobile phones.Increase the barriers to making these types of comments and the number of such comments will fall.blighty30 July 2013 11:43amA possibility is a paid filtering service. Why should you have to pay to protect yourself from trolls? For the same reasons that you pay for anti-virus software and burglar alarms. The point of an open platform is that its open, and such a filtering service might just be the price to pay.edge171030 July 2013 11:18amI think if you can build in some form of delay in posting on Twitter from suspect accounts it might help. A lot of it has to do with instant gratification and if you disrupt that you will annoy the troll. Also build in a delay when someone suspect tries to create a new account. You could delay a confirmation email by five minutes. There little lizard brains have forgotten what they were about to do by then.goodoldcause29 July 2013 8:07pmThis comment has been chosen by Guardian staff because it contributes to the debateHow about three strikes and you're out? If three, or five or however many, people whom you have directly messaged report you as abusive, you are automatically put into &quot;protected tweet&quot; mode for a cooling off period.You could make all the protected tweeters visible to each other, as well as their followers. It could be their own horrible, shouty, nasty corner of the internet.Will you be using the new in-tweet &quot;report abuse&quot; button?Do you think it will work? If not what other measures would you like to see Twitter bring in or have you seen used on other social sites which you think could help curb online abuse? Tell us in a comment below and also leave your thoughts on potential technical solutions to help highlight and stamp out online abuse.
The PC boom is over, and the business will never regain the peaks that it saw in 2011 when more than 359m were shipped worldwide, says research company IDC.In a downward revision of its forecast for this year's PC business, it says that total shipments will fall by 9.7% compared to 2012, and will continue to drift down at least until 2017.The culprits are smartphones, especially in emerging markets, and tablets, together with economic woes both in the west and some emerging markets.The key to the drop is that emerging markets, and particularly China, will see double-digit declines in shipments as both first-time and upgrading users turn to tablets and smartphones.End of the boom: annual worldwide PC shipments since 1998, and forecast to 2017. Source: IDCFor PC makers such as Dell and HP, which have not been able to break into the mobile markets at any substantial level, the fall in shipments is having a dramatic effect on their business. The effect is more marked in the consumer market, which is down 20% year-on-year in some areas, than the business market, where companies have begun to install Windows 7 on a large scale ahead of the end of support for Windows XP - first released in 2001 - next April.The dropoff could have long-term implications for Microsoft's Windows business, formerly one of its most valuable monopolies.For consumers, the rise of tablets has produced a new refresh cycle which directly subtracts from PC makers' revenues."The new forecast reflects not only a continued expansion of mobile device options at the expense of PCs, but also marked the cessation of emerging market growth that the industry had come to rely on in recent years," IDCsaid.IDC has repeatedly revised its forecast for PC shipments downwards since early 2010, according to data collated by the Guardian. In June 2011, its forward forecast reckoned that total shipments for 2013 would hit 438.5m.But the rapid rise especially of tablets has eaten into that - so that it now reckons this year's total will hit 315.4m, a 28% cut from that older forecast.In June 2011, it was forecasting that by 2015 total world PC shipments would rise to 541.5m. Now, it reckons the total will instead be 318.2m - a 41% cut on its earlier expectation.IDC forecasts for PC and tablet shipments, 2010-2017. Each column is a forecast from a later date. Click for larger version.The figures include desktop, netbook, and other laptops including ultrabooks and "convertibles" which can act as a tablet and PC, but don't include purely handheld devices or tablets such as the iPad.IDCtempered its tablet forecast for 2013after the slow second quarter, from a total of 227.4m units rather than 229.3 - a cut of less than 1% - but added that "despite the slight reduction for this year, the market will continue to grow at a rapid pace and by 2017 IDC expects worldwide shipments to be nearly 407m units." That would compare with a forecast of 319.8m PCs for that year.IDC repeated its previous criticism of Microsoft's Windows 8's usability - and the parallel rise of tablets - for driving some of the changes. "The days where one can assume tablet disruptions are purely a First World problem are over," said Jay Chou, senior research analyst at IDC. "Advances in PC hardware, such as improvements in the power efficiency of [Intel] x86 processors remain encouraging, and Windows 8.1 is also expected to address a number of well-documented concerns. However, the current PC usage experience falls short of meeting changing usage patterns that are spreading through all regions, especially as tablet price and performance become ever more attractive."
In May 2011, when Microsoft announced its planned purchase of Skype for $8.5bn (£5,5bn),I called it "a gamble unlikely to pay off".Just over two years later, has the gamble in fact paid off – or does it show signs of doing so?In my analysis at the time, I argued thatAfter paying $8.5bn for Skype, what will Microsoft end up with? In a few years, I forecast it will be this: $8.5bn less in its bank accounts, a cats-in-a-bag fight between its Office division and its Online Services division over integration of the service, little – if any – kudos from consumers, and no appreciable effect on its bottom line.I also argued that the bad parts of the integration would be that• Mobile carriers would not like the threat to their voice business from data calls, nor the threat of phones that ran Skype becoming "superpeers" and affecting bandwidth• Problems monetising it: revenues at the time – $860m for the year, losses of $7m – amounted to just $1.30 per userper year• Difficulties integrating it into other Microsoft products and divisions• Strategically, it didn't fit into other Microsoft offerings for consumer or enterprise – apart from the possibility of integrating it into Office and business switchboards which use VOIP services• Being peer-to-peer, it's inherently unreliable; not a good fit for Microsoft, which big businesses rely on• Microsoft already had two VOIP offerings – through Xbox Live (30m accounts then) and Microsoft Messenger (260m accounts then). Crunching them all together into a single user account looked like a hellish task which wouldn't be welcomed by users• Skype is a consumer brand, but traded on its "upstart" nature; trying to monetise it too rapidly or thoroughly would turn people off.So let's look at the picture now.FinanciallyIt's impossible to know how Skype is performing financially, because all of its figures have been rolled into the Entertainment &amp; Devices unit (which housed the Xbox and Windows Phone divisions, among others), and individual numbers haven't been broken out for the company.Microsoft Entertainment & Devices division revenue by quarter, from July-Sep 2009, showing date where Skype joinedLooking at a graph of the E&amp;D division's revenues since mid-2009, you'd be hard-pressed to say where Skype joined it. There's no noticeable change in the revenues beyond the seasonal one (when the Xbox tends to sell well). If Skype added $200m per quarter to the E&amp;D division revenues, it managed to hide it well. (In fact, it's reckoned that patent licensing from Android handsets and tablets is generating a billion dollars a year for E&amp;D – a tidier revenue stream than Skype, since it is virtually all profit.)Microsoft wouldn't offer any financial details when I contacted it this week. "For Q4 FY13 [which ended in June 2013], Skype users made more than 162bn minutes of calls, an increase of 41% from the prior year's fourth [fiscal] quarter," a spokesman said. No words on how many of those are SkypeOut (paid) calls which would generate revenues.Conclusion: no sign that Skype has made any positive (or particularly negative) impact on Microsoft's business.UsageHow about usage? "Since joining Microsoft, the number of users connecting each month has gone from 196 million to 300 million," the company said.And what's more: "Skype users made2bn minutes of calls in one day in spring 2013."So clearly, more use is being made of Skype. But is it growing faster, the same, or slower now it's inside Microsoft? That 196m-to-300m growth looks promising; it's 53% up since October 2011 (when the acquisition closed).In 2012, there wereunofficial reports via Techcrunchthat Skype was seeing strong growth: a peak of 45.5 million users concurrently in September 2012, "part of a strong run … [which] has seen an increase in concurrent users of 70% so far in 2012, compared to growth of around 30% for the same period in 2011."That kept going, until earlier this month Skype seemed to have 70 million people online concurrently. That would be 53% growth (coincidentally) from that September 2012 figure.But that might not be what it seems, according to the theSkype Numerologyblog, where the author, Jean Mercier, reckons thatThe phenomenal growth of the Skype concurrent users online (see the number at the bottom of your Skype client window for older versions or the Skype RSS feed here) is clearly due to the availability of Skype through Outlook.com (the former hotmail service of Microsoft) as announced some days ago here.But –if I understand it well, everybody (from a limited amount of very important countries) has Skype enabled whenever they go into their Outlook.com account. Therefore they come online without really asking for it!Second, some people have probably not merged their Skype account and their Outlook.com (or Microsoft) account. Therefore they aretwice online on Skype. This is therefore (temporarily?) inflating the real number of persons online.Mercier thinks those numbers are therefore inflated by some double counting. We also don't have strong historic numbers for Skype growth (there's lots of confusion between registered users, concurrent users, and monthly users; all are offered, but none consistently).Certainly, Skype is bigger than ever before. But that might be expected. Being added to Outlook can't have hurt.IntegrationMicrosoft told me this week: "Generally speaking, Skype should be thought of as a critical component of our 'devices and services' strategy that Steveoutlined in detail in last year's shareholder letter. As Steve said in his recent memo when announcing changes to the way the company is organised: 'The bedrock of our new strategy is innovation in deep, rich, high-value experiences and activities. It's the starting point for differentiated devices integrated with services.'"That of course involves having an expanding base of first-class, integrated services, particularly in the increasingly critical realm of real-time communications.  Skype is a vital part of that."Skype, the company points out, now connects directly into Office 365, Xbox, Windows 8, Bing, Microsoft Messenger, Windows Phone and Lync, its business-oriented VOIP solution, and soon into Outlook.com for everyone."In fact, the Lync and Skype engineering teams were brought together some time ago, which enables us to further build a first-class communication experience for Skype and Lync users," Microsoft says. "The overall strategy and goal for the future is to continue to introduce new ways for people to connect and to push the field of communications to benefit both consumers and organisations and businesses.  We wouldn't be in the position we are today, with a lot of great current and future offerings, if it weren't for Skype."Certainly, integration of Skype into all those offerings is what the purchase should have been about. And it does look as though Microsoft has pulled it off.Integration into Office 365 is a key achievement. It means that Skype becomes part of both the office and consumer environment – important for Microsoft in trying to become part of the fabric of our lives.But has it pulled off $8.5bn worth of integration? The deal closed on 14 October 2011; at that time,Microsoft was worth $229.3bnon the stock market.Fast forward to today, and it isworth $277.1bn– an advance of $47.8bn. Part of that will include cash accrued through Windows and Office sales.But you could certainly argue that even though Microsoft can't point to cash coming through the door from Skype, it has managed to integrate it into products and so leverage what was a breakthrough technology.Moreover, acquiring Skype has had a strategic – and competitive – benefit. It has put Microsoft into the middle of communication between people, unobtrusively. And it has also left Google obliged to come up with its own video technology, in the form of "Hangouts" – which it has been obliged to push hard in seeking to reach the public. The problem with Hangouts is that pretty much nobody in the world outside Google, or technology, has heard of them.Skype, by contrast, is pervasive, known by old and young alike: One Direction's Zayn Malik shares "romantic chats on the internet" with his fiancee Perrie Edwards (it says here): "We miss each other. We've got Skype as well. That helps," he told Metro.In that, Microsoft has succeeded in making Skype useful to its own business in a way that eBay, which bought and then sold it earlier in the century, never did. People always expected that eBay would build Skype into auction pages for instant calls; but that overlooked the reality that sellers didn't actually want queries from buyers.Microsoft, by contrast, doesn't have to force Skype on anyone. Just owning it is a strategic benefit.ConclusionHas Microsoft made Skype pay off? It's been less than two years since the acquisition – but it has moved fast. It would be unreasonable to expect $8.5bn of value to appear that rapidly.But it clearly hasn't been wasted, unlike other high-profile acquisitions – notably aQuantive, an ad business which Microsoft bought in its second-largest takeover for $6bn in 2007. In July 2012, it was forced to write down $6.2bn of aQuantive's value – forcing it into net loss for the quarter.With 10 years behind it, there's every possibility that Skype will have at least another 10 in front – and almost certainly inside Microsoft.
A selection of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBug In Apple's CoreText allows specific string of characters to crash iOS 6, OS X 10.8 apps &gt;&gt; TechCrunchMatthew Panzarino:A bug in Apple'sCoreText rendering enginein iOS 6 and OS X 10.8 causes any apps that try to render a string of Arabic characters to crash on sight. The string of characters which can trigger the bug — which was discovered yesterday and has spread around the hacking and coding community — has made its way to Twitter, where even looking at it in your timeline will crash the app.The Russian hacker who seems to have discovered it says Apple was told of this six months ago. (Thanks #imaginarynumber for the link.)Apple begins training support staff on iOS 7 &amp; iTunes Radio, preparing for customer surprise &gt;&gt; 9to5MacThe iOS 7 training focuses on some of the more critical features of iOS. Apple seems to want to push the Find my iPhone Activation Lock feature. This option requires the customer's iCloud username and password for an iOS Device to be inputted to activate a found iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch. This feature is built to deter iOS Device thefts and sales of stolen or found devices.Also of note:Apple appears to be ready to assist customers who are surprised by the system's radically new design, and the company has a simple solution for this. When a customer calls AppleCare because they do not know how to use a particular function in iOS 7, AppleCare is said to be told to explain that although the system looks completely different, it works exactly the same way.Sales of BlackBerry's Q10 keyboard phone fall flat &gt;&gt; WSJ.comWill Connors and Thomas Gryta:The Q10 went on sale at Verizon and AT&amp;T earlier this summer, and is launching on Sprint this Friday. Carriers had already started discounting the Z10, and inventory of both phones is starting to pile up just a few months after their U.S. launch, people familiar with the matter said.The Z10 is now available free on a two-year contract at several outlets such as Best Buy. And BlackBerry has started offering employees the chance to buy up to 10 Z10s, contract-free, for less than $100 each, according to a person familiar with the matter. BlackBerry said it offers its products to employees at special rates.In Canada, BlackBerry's home turf, the Q10 was expected to sell briskly. But sales appear to have fallen flat there as well."I think we'd all say that the Q10, the one we all thought was going to be the savior, just hit the ground and died," an executive at a Canadian carrier said. "It didn't drive the numbers that anybody expected."BlackBerry's current quarter ends on Saturday; it reports results on 27 September.So long, video responses... Next up: better ways to connect &gt;&gt; YouTube Creator BlogHelping you connect with your fans is extremely important for you and for us. This includes replacing little-used features with better ones. Currently video responses have a click-through rate of .0004% - in other words, only 4 out of every 1 million users who sees a video response clicks on it. So, on 12 September we're going to retire this little-used feature as we work to develop more effective fan engagement tools for creators.The "more effective fan engagement tools" turn out to be hashtags. In between video responses (effectively zero) and comments on videos (effectively zero brain activity), YouTube's having a hard time finding the middle path.Samsung Galaxy Gear specs and images revealed &gt;&gt; AMongTechAfter asking several of our sources working at Samsung Warehouse located in Texas, they have confirmed to AmongTech that the following specs are the ones the new Samsung Galaxy Gear will have:2.5 inch OLED touchscreen display 320×320 resolution10 hours of battery lifeDual core processor 1.5GHz4 MegaPixel front camera 720pSpeakers in the device's strapAccelerometerBluetooth 4.0 LEAndroid Jelly Bean1 GB of RAMThere will be a 8 GB and a 6 GB modelSomeone mixed up "smartwatch" and "smartphone". And - 10hours?For awatch?Nintendo &gt;&gt; Ignore the codeLukas Mathis:The logic goes a bit like this: Nintendo is doing poorly because Apple and Samsung own the market for portable devices. If only Nintendo stopped making hardware and published their games for iOS instead, surely, it would do much better.Mac users should be familiar with the argument against this reasoning. Fantastic games like Super Mario 3DS Land can only exist because Nintendo makes both the hardware and the software. That game simply could not exist on an iPhone.But there's an additional problem with this argument: the premise is completely wrong. Nintendo is actually not doing poorly in the portable market. iPhones have not destroyed the market for portable gaming devices. The 3DS is, in fact, doing very well.With graphs.Dell to axe 1,000-plus call-centre bods, enterprise staff in prep to go private &gt;&gt; The RegisterChris Mellor:Dell is laying off staff in its enterprise division, The Register understands, as company honcho Michael Dell prepares to take his firm private.El Reg has heard that Dell is steadily ridding itself of enterprise workers, including senior technologists, strategists, developers, and sales employees, as well as a vice-president.The tech titan is also, we understand, shedding heads from systems, database, performance and access management biz Quest, which it snapped up for $2.4bn last year. Register sources claimed fresh layoffs are now happening every Wednesday.And Dell is planning to let go more than 1,000 people at its Mohali call-centre in India - and close that operation down, we're told.Hyperloop &gt;&gt; All thisDr Drang is back, and he doesn't like Elon Musk's Hyperloop (which sounds like something out of Donald Fagen's 'IGY':So what's the value of getting the vibration mode shapes of this little section of the Hyperloop? Simple: it makes pretty pictures you can put in your proposal.The stress contours are even more entertaining if you understand anything about the structural design of reinforced concrete.On the future of iOS and Android &gt;&gt; steve cheneyAmong other things:NFC is dead—that's not the interesting part though, it's how Apple was able to replicate NFC functionality with Bluetooth 4.0 and WiFi (they're also using GPS like Bump did for authentication) and how they standardized all of this into iBeacon in iOS7. While supporting it all backward compatibly to iPhone 4S. A two year old phone upgraded with iOS7 will just work…  Bluetooth has arrived – it's been around forever, but up to now it's been crappy. Bluetooth LE (also called Bluetooth Smart) changes everything. Connections, pairing, device management etc will finally work 100% of the time, and Bluetooth will be a completely bulletproof, consumer ready, industry leading technology.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Ten years after the launch ofSkypeand the company's alumni are moving on to ever more interesting things.Fleepis the latest of these, an iOS app and web-based messaging tool.Photo byTsahi Levent-Levion Flickr.Some rights reserved.It's funded by Jaan Tallinn and Priit Kasesalu, two of Skype's founding engineers who invested £225,000 in the company.Chief executive Henn Ruukel, part of the Estonian team, is also a comer Skyper and worked at Elisa, the Finnish telco. Tallinn said in a release that Fleep is supposed to fill the gaps between email and IM applications. "It takes email's ability to contact anyone and marries it with real-time messaging."I'm more than mildly preoccupied with email productivity, or lack of it, so any service that mentions 'inbox zero' gets a look. Fleep promises to help meet inbox zero, it uses devices from instant messaging to achieve it. Users can add others to conversations, which look like message threads until the viewer signs in.Messages can also be synced between desktop and mobile versions of Fleep, save threads to the bookmarking service Pinboard (a functional but less beautiful Delicious) and attached documents can be stored through the service if the recipient is offline.Full judgement is reserved until we've actually lived with it a while of course, but tell us what you think. And suggestions for other email-efficient tolls always welcome. We've foundMailboxpretty good, with a natty 'resurface this message tomorrow/next week' feature...
Amazon has agreed to drop a clause which banned third-party traders from selling products cheaper elsewhere, following the intervention of the Office of Fair Trading.Currently, third-party traders are forced to charge the same amount on any other platform as they do on Amazon but independent and rival websites can now undercut it, according to the consumer watchdog.After numerous complaints from traders using the amazon.co.uk Marketplace platform the regulator opened a formal investigation into the price parity policy in October last year. Amazon says on its website that the rule is "critical to preserve fairness for Amazon customers" who expect to find low prices. The clause meant that a trader could not sell a product, including the delivery charge, for a lower price on its own website or another site such as eBay or play.com. Amazon can suspend sellers who break the rules.The OFT welcomed Amazon's decision and said it would end the investigation prematurely and would not be drawn on whether or not the company had broken the law. The watchdog had become concerned that the policy was affecting prices and was potentially anti-competitive.There are 2m third-party traders using Amazon throughout the world, although the company does not break this down by region or country. In the runup to last Christmas, almost two in five items bought on the site were sold by small traders.A similar investigation has taken place in Germany, and the inquiry by its Federal Cartel Office remains ongoing.Cavendish Elithorn, the OFT senior director of goods and consumer, said: "We welcome Amazon's decision to end its Marketplace price parity policy across the EU."As Amazon operates one of the UK's biggest e-commerce sites, the pricing on its website can have a wide impact on online prices offered to consumers elsewhere. We are pleased that sellers are now completely free to set their prices as they wish, as this encourages price competition and ensures consumers can get the best possible deals."It is understood that the rule will still stand for US users and traders. Amazon's website said: "We believe that price is an important factor in customer buying decisions. Accordingly, we ask sellers who choose to sell their products on amazon.co.uk not to charge customers higher prices on Amazon than they charge customers elsewhere. Customers trust that they'll find consistently low prices and other favourable terms on amazon.co.uk and we think this is an important step to preserve that trust."Amazon's Marketplace has faced a backlash from traders in the past.This year the Guardian revealed that the company had imposed fee rises on third parties selling consumer electronics, automotive parts and other goods.Some of the busiest traders in the UK saw the cut they paid to Amazon soar from 7% to 14%, and in Germany fees for tyre sellers lifted from 7% to 10%.The OFT said it would continue to monitor the online retail sector to see if price parity rules were used by other online businesses and revealed it had 14 cases open under the Competition Act.
I am having problems updating or downloading some, but not all, programs: something is blocking me. I suspect that the problem is either my Internet Explorer settings or my security software. I am on Windows 8 with IE10 and Norton Internet Security. A friend told me to try disabling anti-virus auto-protect in Norton just for the download period, but I am not completely comfortable with that.PeterYou have identified the most likely culprits, which is a good start.Browsers and anti-malware programs are trying to protect your PC from external threats, and this can have unintended consequences.In IE10, the old Tools menu has been replaced with a cogwheel in the top right corner. Click that to pull down the menu, then select Internet Options. When the properties sheet opens, click the second tab, marked Security. Click the Custom button and scroll down the list to the section headed Downloads.Under File download, there are two radio buttons for Enable and Disable. Make sure the Enable setting is selected.The Security tab shows a sliding scale with three settings, and the middle one is the best choice: Medium-high. With this setting, IE10 should prompt you before you download something that might be unsafe, without preventing you from doing it. You'd only set the slider to High if you were visiting sites that you didn't think were safe, but you could try the lower setting as a temporary fix.Are downloads blocked from just one or two websites? If so, you could add these addresses to the browser's list of Trusted sites. To do this, click the green tick and then the button marked Sites, and paste an address into the box that says "Add this website to the zone". This should stop IE10 from blocking it. Now see if you can download your file.IE10's compatibility modesDo some sites always work while others always fail? If so, it may be the website's fault. IE10 is a very good standards-compliant browser, but some sites are behind the times. The way round this, sadly, is to make IE10 pretend to be an older, inferior version.To do this, go back to the Tools cog and pick "F12 developer tools" from the dropdown menu. This will open a pane at the bottom of the screen. Click on the words "Browser Mode: IE10" to pull down a menu that provides a list of choices. You can choose to make IE10 behave like IE7, IE8, IE9, or use IE10 compatibility mode. I mention this because it's sometimes the only way to get a website to work properly, but I don't recommend it.If you think you might have made a mess of IE10's settings in Windows 8, you can always re-set them to the defaults by followingMicrosoft's instructions. (Readers with older versions of Windows can do this byclicking a single Fixit button(Microsoft Fix it 50195).Of course, if you can't download a file with IE10, the obvious workaround is to use a different browser, preferably the latest version of Firefox. It's slightly less secure than Google Chrome because of Chrome's sandboxing, but it is more stable, and in my experience, handles more tabs while consuming fewer resources. I run it alongside IE10 all the time.If Firefox doesn't download what you want, Mozilla has a trouble-shooting page:What to do if you can't download or save files.Disabling NortonWhen it comes to Norton Internet Security, I am somewhat handicapped by not having a copy. However, I would expect it to block some websites, and the files from those websites. I would not expect it to block a file from an unblocked website unless it reckons the file is bad. If you are sure the file is safe then you can, as your friend suggested, get around the block. A Norton community member, yogesh_mohan, has provided instructions:Excluding false positives from autoprotect.If you do this, scan the file withMalwarebytes Anti-Malware(quick scan). If MBAM says it is clean, upload the file to Symantec's website:Report a Suspected Erroneous Detection (False Positive).Again, I'd prefer to find a workaround. Two that spring to mind are using Secunia's PSI and using a file downloader instead of a browser.One-stop updatersYou mention "problems updating ... some programs" but there are simpler ways to get updates. One of them is to use an "app store" such asAll My AppsorNinite. The idea is to download all the Windows programs you need from the same safe store, which will update them all at once, without visiting all the separate websites. The main difference between the two stores is that Ninite has a very small selection of essential programs — of the order of 100 — whereas All My Apps has about 16,000.Alternatively, use Secunia'sPersonal Software Inspector. This scans the programs on your PC and lists the ones that need updating for security reasons. PSI will then fetch and install each update. It's quick and easy, though some programs create problems because they come bundled with "foistware": they try to con you into downloading extra programs that you neither want nor need, such as a Google or Ask toolbar.It's important to run something like PSI now that a lot of malware exploits insecure third-party programs such as Adobe Reader and Oracle's Java rather than targeting Windows. Also, running PSI means you don't have to put up with half a dozen updaters for separate programs, which otherwise get loaded in the background and run all the time.The "community-powered"SlimCleaner 4.0is a great alternative that I also use and recommend. It will find and remove programs you don't need (foistware, crapware etc), clear out junk data (like CCleaner), and find duplicate files. It also includes a Software Updater that installs newer versions of programs for you. It's the Swiss Army knife of modern Windows computing.Dedicated downloadersFinally, there are programs designed to download files as easily as possible. These used to be very popular because they could often restart failed downloads, and because they could open multiple download threads. For example, if you wanted to download a 100MB file, the downloader would download four 25MB chunks at the same time, making the download four times faster (if you had enough internet bandwidth). In those days, I usedFlashGet, which still looks like a viable option. Now, I'd start withFree Download Manager(FDM) orJDownloader(but notOrbit Downloader) as these seem to be popular choices at the moment.I have not used FDM but I have recently started using JDownloader.It's designed for fetching files from "cyberlockers" such as File Factory and Depositfiles, but I use it for downloading YouTube videos.Paste in the address of a10-minute music videoand JDownloader offers the choice of six different downloads including 3gp (for phones), flv, mp4 and WebM, with file sizes from 6.18MB to 22.80MB.All of the above applies to the Windows 8 desktop and Windows 7 etc.However, if you like "modern" aka Metro apps for Windows 8 and RT, you could try Vbfnet's freeFile Downloaderfrom the Windows Store. It looks extremely simple but it can download multiple files from password-protected websites and FTP sites, and downloads can be paused or cancelled. Windows Store apps are easier to install, run securely and, when removed, don't leave anything behind. On technical grounds, they should be your first choice in Windows 8. And mine. But after 23 years of old Windows, it takes time to adjust.
It&apos;s been10 years since the video and chat service launchedand internet users have been sharing their stories of how they keep in touch with friends and loved ones using Skype. Here is a collection of some of the best examples sent to@Skypeon the#SkypeStorieshashtag.Got a story to share? Leave it in a comment on this article or tweet@Guardianwith your#Skype10yearsstory and we&apos;ll include the best ones here.The first time I saw my soon to be husband was over Skype. Our friend introduced us while he was in Afghanistan.#skypestories&mdash; Samantha ت (@sam_bartley)June 27, 2012#skypestories@tweet_fede_c in Italy,me in Toronto.He was there every night for me, he used to wake me up, he proposed...#7monthstowedds&mdash; Verijustgotmarried (@CitizenVeri)February 10, 2012I&#39;ve spent over 1000€ over six month period on#skypeso we could spend hours together#skypestoriestalking about our future life together&mdash; Davor Pihač (@dpihac)February 9, 2012My sister and I baked inside-out carrot cake muffins via@Skype- secret ingredient? LOVE#skypestories#sweden#USApic.twitter.com/EXft2MRZ&mdash; Kelsey McCabe (@KelseyMcCabe)June 28, 2012#SkypeStoriesTo make a long distance relationship work you have to make the best of what you got...haha#misshersomuchpic.twitter.com/E7KDA0DL&mdash; Sam Hadfield (@samhproducer)February 9, 2012@SkypeI met my wife shortly before I left for two years in Africa. We had weekly &quot;Skype lunches&quot; for most the second year.#SkypeStories&mdash; Doug Hanna (@DouHan)February 9, 2012#skypestoriesI fall asleep with my boyfriend everynight on Skype because we are miles apart. Feels like we&#39;re in the same bed though.  &lt;3&mdash; Heather  (@heathaaababyyy)February 9, 2012The first time my kiddo said &quot;I love you&quot; to her grandparents was during a Skype chat. Awwww...#SkypeStories&mdash; Aimee Murphy (@AimeeMMurphy)June 30, 2012What are your stories and comments on using Skype over the last 10 years? Leave a comment below or tweet@Guardianwith your thoughts on#Skype10yearsYour stories to @Guardian@guardian#Skype10yearsHave been reading a bedtime story to my granddaughter every Wednesday for 5 years.  It&#39;s our time together.&mdash; John Howard (@JohnHoward46)August 29, 2013@guardianI can talk to my best friend, who lives in Oregon, on a weekly basis.#Skype10years&mdash; Mirko Demasi (@j_svajl)August 29, 2013@guardianWhen I started seeing my BF he moved to the Alps for 6months, it was the only way we kept in contact#4YearsLater#Skype10years&mdash; Imogen Gray (@IKGray)August 29, 2013@guardianWhile living in UK studying our MSc,#Skype10yearshelped@silil3and I bridge the atlantic and stave off homesickness.&mdash; Jesus Ramos (@xuxoramos)August 29, 2013@guardian#Skype10yearsI had Thanksgiving dinner with my family for 5 yrs while I lived in the UK, starting in &#39;07. Different turkeys, tho.&mdash; Kate Weber (@KateWeber1)August 29, 2013@guardianIndebted to#Skype10yearsfor my daily lunch chat with parents and 3 years long distance relationship which I&#39;m about to repeat!&mdash; Asiya Islam (@asiyaislam)August 29, 2013@guardian#skype10yearsKept a love alive across oceans and mountains - I owe skype a seat at my wedding#love&mdash; Hannah Feltham (@HRFeltham)August 29, 2013@guardianUse it to stay in touch with my girlfriend while she recovers from surgery 3000 miles away from me, it keeps me sane#skype10years&mdash; Annabel Staff (@annabelstaffcom)August 29, 2013Anyone else tearing up over#Skype10Years? Seeing my dad on his 50th birthday, getting to be at my best friend&#39;s bridal shower...&mdash; Sarah Fink (@sarahfink)August 29, 2013@guardian#Skype10yearsWhen my sister moved from Italy to Angola used Skype to talk to her everyday and miss her a little less.&mdash; Maria Cristina (@littlemissmc)August 29, 2013@guardianI attended my brother&#39;s engagement via Skpe! Will most likely attend the wedding on Sept 21st via Skype too:)#Skype10years&mdash; Ekin Turesay (@eturesay)August 29, 2013@guardian#Skype10Yearskept me connected with my family when I moved 10000mi away at 17. wouldn&#39;t be ok if I couldn&#39;t talk to them everyday&mdash; NayNay the Divine (@zanyzaneta)August 29, 2013Conquering the world, sharing bad-hair days &amp; keeping long-distance love alive through several countries.@guardian#Skype10years&mdash; Morgane (@MogiTalks)August 29, 2013.@guardianAt some point my sister was in Mexico City, my parents in Sao Paulo, my now wife in Kyoto &amp; I in Helsinki. Thanks#Skype10years.&mdash; Luis Orozco (@chivacongelado)August 29, 2013@guardianHusband working in Papua New Guinea for 3 years, me in UK and now dubai. He even calls from the jungle!#skype10years&mdash; Vicki Attoe (@southend4ever)August 29, 2013@guardianI watched my sister&#39;s wedding in Cyprus when I was too heavily pregnant to travel (laptop hidden behind a palm tree)#Skype10years&mdash; Vicki W (@woollyvix)August 29, 2013@guardianWhen I lived in South Korea I used Skype to read bedtime stories to my niece and nephew in the US#Skype10years&mdash; Bessie Crum (@OurOwnPath)August 29, 2013@guardianI&#39;ve been able to keep in touch with my daughter who&#39;s husband serves in the Armed Forces#Skype10years&mdash; Alison Law (@AKAGeorgesMum)August 29, 2013@guardianLast Xmas our family dinner included my brother in NYC and my cousin in Beirut thanks to#Skype10years&mdash; Stephanie Thompson (@Stefaniya)August 29, 2013@guardianI fell in love w/ my now-husband over SKYPE; 35,000 miles away from him. Our wedding was SKYPED to family &amp; friends#Skype10years&mdash; Stephanie Fuller (@meltdownmillie)August 29, 2013@guardianSeeing my nephew one day old = weeping mess. All because of#Skype10years.&mdash; Eve Wagg (@evewagg)August 29, 2013Happy Anni#skype10yearsbecause of you I can chat daily to London and see my daughter - seeing is knowing she is doing well.&mdash; Mat Wilcox  (@matwilcox)August 29, 2013#Skype10years@guardian. I use Skype to teach; it has transform my classroom into a global one.&mdash; Julia Knight (@KnightWilliams)August 29, 2013@guardianI tuned into BBC Question time Via skype and my bro&#39;s TV whilst living in a Rio de Janeiro Favela.#Skype10years&mdash; Ben Sadek (@sadg01)August 29, 2013Met my boyfriend in NYC 4 years ago, I moved to Paris 3 years ago, he moved to Kuala Lumpur 1 year ago#longdistance#Skype10years&mdash; Clemence Ferry (@ClemiFerry)August 29, 2013@guardian@KatieMarsden87and I used to get ready before a night out together while at Uni. Canterbury to Amsterdam, thanks to#skype10years&mdash; Amanda (@ADGeary)August 29, 2013@guardianWe used it to spy on our two new dogs while we were out of the house.  Petcam!#Skype10years&mdash; John Ward (@AlwaysThinkAhea)August 29, 2013@guardianI gave a tour of my Toronto apartment to a potential roommate in Istanbul via Skype#Skype10years&mdash; Nesrin Akdemir (@nesakdemir)August 29, 2013@guardianMy mum always has a cake for my birthday in Mexico and I live in regional Australia, party over Skype &#10;#Skype10years&mdash; Rictus Sardonicus  (@GarvilchMariana)August 29, 2013Communicating with my best friend since we moved to different continents after growing up together.#Skype10Years&mdash; Amanda (@pandy92)August 29, 2013@guardianI went to my friend&#39;s wedding in NYC via Skype in my bridesmaid dress, sat in a north London hospital cafeteria.#skype10years.&mdash; Lucy (@LucindaWestcar)August 29, 2013@guardianI skyped my granny on her 80th while I was in Sydney and she in the UK. She could not believe she was talking to me!#Skype10years&mdash; Helen Tytherleigh (@HelenTythers)August 29, 2013@guardianit keep us in touch :)#Skype10Yearspic.twitter.com/kW3roQ2eoS&mdash; Fiores Florentino  (@Fioresita)August 29, 2013.@guardianI often eat with my folks back in Melbourne, they are having dinner whilst I eat breakfast!#familymeals#skype10years&mdash; Tilly Lunken (@theatreofwords)August 29, 2013.@guardianMy mom shows me live cooking demo of her recipes that I want to learn.#familythatcookstogether#skype10years&mdash; serialjunkie (@serialjunkie1)August 29, 2013
Skype has confirmed it is developing 3D video calls – but said it could be many years before we can use the technology.The Microsoft-owned internet telephony firm revealed it is experimenting with 3D video calls on its 10th anniversary.In an interview with the BBC, Mircrosoft's corporate vice-president for Skype, Mark Gillett, said: "We've done work in the labs looking at the capability of 3D-screens and 3D-capture."We've seen a lot of progress in screens and a lot of people now buy TVs and computer monitors that are capable of delivering a 3D image. But the capture devices are not yet there."Gillett, who joined Skype in 2010 ahead of its $8.5bn takeover by Microsoft, said currently "you have to add multiple cameras to your computer, precisely calibrate them and point them at the right angle" to make 3D video calls possible.But he added: "We have it in the lab, we know how to make it work and we're looking at the ecosystem of devices and their capability to support it in order to make a decision when we might think about bringing something like that to market."There are an estimated 1.5 million owners of televisions able to play 3D in the UK. But the availability on the BBC of flagship events, including Wimbledon and the Queen's Christmas message, has not been met with huge takeup. Both the BBC and Disney recently announced that they are putting their 3D experimentations on hold.Gillet said that 3D video chats would take longer to catch on than other services, such as television and film."I can imagine a day when you have a 3D-cellphone screen that doesn't need 3D-glasses to use it," he said. "It's less clear to me that we're close to having 3D cameras on cellphones."We're in the first year of your TV at home potentially having a camera attached to it, but we're several years away from the cameras capturing 3D in that context."You'll see much more penetration of 3D on TVs, on computers and ultimately in smartphones, probably, ahead of seeing it for sending a video call."
Two suppliers in Taiwan have won orders to build Apple's much-expected "iWatch" for release in 2014, according to a Taiwan-based analyst and local reports.Quanta and Inventec will split the orders in a 60:40 ratio and could build up to 38m of them next year, suggested the Appledaily website, while CIMB Securities analyst Wanli Wang suggested that it might ship more than 63m units in the first year after its launch.Apple has not indicated whether it is working on the device, but the possibility of an "iWatch" has been the subject of growing speculation since reports surfaced earlier this year that Apple had a team working on a "wearable computing" product – a field that chief executive Tim Cook called "profoundly interesting".A smart watch could connect to a user's phone and provide updates or information without needing them to consult their phone directly. In the US,Pebble Technologyhas already sold 85,000 of its Pebble watches at $150, after a crowdfunding campaign raised more than $10m.Apple's interest was noted after itfiled for an "iWatch" trademark in Japan in July, and more recently hired a Nike executive for an undisclosed post.An "iWatch" would probably be unveiled early in 2014 to assess the broader market – but will be playing catch-up against rivals including Samsung, which is preparing to unveil its own "Gear" watch device on 4 September at the IFA event in Berlin, and Google, which is expected to put its head-worn "Glass" product into commercial production during 2014, having already begun "Explorer" trials with thousands of users in July.Price and functionality would be key questions for Apple to solve. Angela McIntyre of the research group Gartner told the Guardian that she thought it might be priced between $149 and $199: "That's within the price range of a nice holiday gift for a husband or wife. Apple products are typically priced somewhat more than competing devices, and people who pay a premium for the Apple brand expect better quality and design."She added: "If Apple ships more than 63m units the year after launch, iWatch would ramp faster than iPhone, iPad or iPod, which seems unlikely.  If Apple gets the iWatch right, it could become the top selling smartwatch."Apple said it did not comment on rumours or speculation.Meanwhile Apple has been on a quiet acquisition spree in the past few months. It confirmed that it has just acquiredAlgoTrim, a Swedish company which provides data compression systems for mobile imaging and video.That adds to five other acquisitions since the beginning of July. Three were mapping-related companies - Locationary of Canada, and HopStop and Embark in the US – while one, Matcha, provides "media discovery" and the other, Oakland-based Passif Semiconductor, specialising in low-energy wireless systems. None of the prices for the acquisitions has been revealed.
Responses have been mixed to say the very least. TechCrunch called it "hideous", Wired went for "weird", but NIntendo is hoping the new 2DS handheld console will work alongside the Wii U price cut to boost sales in the crucial Christmas season.For those who missedthe news yesterday, the 2DS is a cheaper version of the controversial 3DS handheld, launched back in 2011. Set for release on 12 October in Europe, the new machine features the same internal hardware as the 3DS, but with no stereoscopic 3D functionality, and with a new slate design replacing the hinged "clam shell" configuration that has characterised the DS range. The twin displays will have the same sizes as the original 3DS screens (3.5 inches for the top display, 3 inches for the lower), and the dual camera lenses on the backside have been retained – so strangely, it'll take stereoscopic photos, but you'll need to transfer them to a 3DS to view them in full.Wireless internet connection has also been maintained, allowing the popular StreetPass and SpotPass social connectivity features to be maintained. The machine will be available in red and white or black and blue colour schemes and is expected to retail at £110, £30 to £35 less than the cheapest 3DS offers.Speaking to US gaming site Kotaku on Wednesday, the Nintendo of America president, Reggie Fils-Aime, described the console as "an entry-level handheld gaming system", opening up the technology to cash-strapped families this Christmas. But many sites have read the move as an acceptance that the 3D gaming experiment has been a disappointing mis-step. Since its launch two-and-a-half years ago, the 3DS has shifted about 33m units, but the original DS machine had sold more than 45m units within the same amount of time. During the launch period of the machine, many newspapersincluding the Sunalleged that the stereoscopic screens were causing nausea for a large number of gamers, while Nintendo itself issued a health warning advising against the viewing of stereoscopic effects for children under seven. These elements, together with the comparatively high launch price, acted as a deterrent to the sort of family-focused purchasers who helped make the DS such a huge success.The move comes at a time in which enthusiasm for home 3D technology is waining. Although sales of 3D television sets grew by more than 70% in 2012 according to industry research specialist DisplaySearch, it seems as though consumers are not making use of the functionality after purchase. In July, the BBC revealed that its 3D programming would be put on indefinite hold, while ESPN is shutting down its 3D content by the end of 2013. Both have cited lack of public interest as their motivation. Furthermore, although a range of Playstation 3 and Xbox 360 games were released with stereoscopic modes during the major hype period of 3D TV sales, very few developers are now supporting the technology. Gamer apathy and disappointing results have been the key explanations.Meanwhile in the games industry, Nintendo is losing ground to its rivals Sony and Microsoft who both have new next-gen machines out in November. The PlayStation 4 and Xbox One are much more powerful than the Wii U and their head-to-head hype war has led to impressive pre-orders for both contenders, leaving Wii U and 3DS in the shade. At the same time, Nintendo's handheld console is having to complete against smartphones and tablets as well as the PlayStation Vita, a more advanced handheld gaming device that may well receive a boost thanks to its close compatibility with the PS4.Analysts understand Nintendo's thinking, but responses have been as mixed as the game sites. "The launch of the 2DS makes sense," said Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at IHS Electronics and Media. "Unlike Sony with its PS Vita, this younger consumer is Nintendo's core user for its handhelds, and the 3DS, while performing better since 2012, is still relatively expensive and also able to display 3D, which carries a warning for younger children. Launching a cheaper, non-3D, non-hinged product plugs the gap left in Nintendo's portfolio created by the decline of its original DS platform."Brian Blau, a research director at Gartner, understands the strategy, but feels its more about treading water rather than boosting competitiveness in the market. "While the 3D part of the 3DS was interesting there was some concern about the screen and the 3D content," he said. "It's possible that removing these components was enough of a cost saving but didn't take away from the overall 3DS experience or sacrifice the core game and app capability. I don't believe this new device (or the price cuts on Wii U) will have that much impact on their overall performance in the market, but it could help them keep the units moving and games being played."There will also be questions regarding the admittedly small selection of 3DS titles that reallyutilisethe stereoscopic features. What sort of experience will 2DS owners get from games like Super Mario 3D World and Pilot Wings Resort that make 3D visuals a key part of the navigation and gameplay?While the Nintendo 3DS is certainly not in the same league of three-dimensional failure as the infamous Virtual Boy device, which was launched in 1995 to near universal criticism, the arrival of the 2DS suggests the manufacturer's confidence in its gadget has taken a hit. And with Wii U sales also disappointing, this will prove a challenging Christmas for the video game veteran.
Running my business from Sweden, the ecosystem has always been founded on companies like Ericsson, who set the standards for the industry. But when Skype was bought by Microsoft in 2011 for $2.6bn, it totally changed that ecosystem.It inspired us personally to start a business, and it has also changed the way students think about their future. Graduates used to have to choose between academia and a job in a big company – now they know they can start their own company and disrupt multibillion-dollar industries with little-to-none initial investments.The real power of Skype's business – along with Viber and the rest of the wave of VoIP and messaging apps – is the value of the network effect, of millions of users creating a peer-to-peer network. If nobody were on Skype, the innovation wouldn't matter.The incumbent telecoms firms have repeatedly failed to understand the phenomenon of network effect, choosing instead to spend years and billions of dollars on research and development. By the time they have a product ready, the market is already saturated.All operators will be pushed towards IP-based networksStartups, on the other hand, have the advantage of speed - even if they fail, they fail quickly. Until now, operators have until now been living on old business models and not been fast enough to adapt to the lightning fast speed of change in the consumer markets. Now that the industry is evolving towards 4G, which is IP based, operators will eventually be forced to VoIP.I would argue that they have already missed the boat, and are now only a distribution channel that carries the customers to the market with increasingly lower margins. This very inflexibility of the operators has made it a fruitful market for startups to come and disrupt.Operators are also geographically limited due to infrastructure and legislation issues, while apps are not. An app with well-executed strategy can easily fully utilise the network effect and become big in very short time.The tipping point for Skype was when people started inviting their friends to use the service. This 'virality' was driven by users' motivation to make the service more useful for themselves – but that's when organic growth happens.Microsoft's acquisition: a challenge, not an advantageIf network effect can explain Skype's exponential growth, then where does the next opportunity lie?Post Microsoft acquisition, as for any successful startup, the challenge was for Skype to retain the small and agile mindset but go for growth using Microsoft's huge user base and product spectrum.The new generation communications companies – the VoIP and messaging services of Skype, Israel's Viber and KakaoTalk, from South Korea – had to think globally from day one because their local markets were too small for significant growth. Growth is hardwired into what they do.If your startup reaches a point where one of the Four Horseman – Google, Facebook, Microsoft &amp; Apple – is interested in acquiring your company, then comes the big question of "should I sell". We all know about economies of scale and the power these companies can provide, but also there is the evident risk of being crushed inside these huge gearbox companies. Some very big deals end up in zombie companies consumed within these giants, whereas other startups keep growing and become giants themselves one day.Compare Skype with the vitality and ambition of Viber and KakaoTalk, and the challenge looks clear. Post acquisition, the position and strategy a company designs for itself determines its whole future.•Alan Mamediis co-founder ofTruecaller, a collaborative phone directory service based in Stockholm
Hugo Barra, who revolutionised the appearance of Android after joining Google in March 2008, is leaving to work at Xiaomi, a rapidly growing smartphone maker which has been dubbed "China's Apple".Barra's move,announced on his Google+ page, is a surprise. He had been a figurehead for the development of Android, most recently being seen showing off Google's new Nexus 7 tablet at its unveiling in June.Having joined from the speech company Nuance, Barra moved up rapidly inside Google, and quickly became head of Android's overall product management. He oversaw key design changes, with the shift from Android 2.x to the more fluid 4.x interface.Barra's move to Xiaomi is a coup for the Chinese company, which has earned a name for its attempts to mimic many of Apple's external approaches. Despite having only been founded in June 2010, it is aiming for total sales of $4.5bn this year, offering smartphones with miUI, its own custom version of the open-source version of Android - which it updates every week. It sells its phones directly from its website, and also offers internet services.Barra's move means that the strategic direction of Android will come under intense focus. Earlier this year Andy Rubin, who originally developed Android as part of an independent company that was bought by Google in 2005, stepped down from the team to "start a new chapter at Google".Rubin was replaced by Sundar Pichai, who had previously been head of the desktop Chrome OS team - suggesting to observers that Android might over time be merged with ChromeOS to produce a single codebase, as Microsoft has done with Windows and Windows Phone.AllThingsDreportsthat Barra's departure also comes after upheaval in his personal life. It says he recently ended a relationship with another worker at Google, reportedly a member of the Google Glass team - who is now, AllThingsD reports, in a relationship with Google co-founder Sergey Brin, who has recently split from his wife Anne Wojcicki, co-founder of the genetic testing company 23andme.Barra's departure is said not to be linked to his personal life. A Google spokesperson told Techcrunchthat "We'll all miss him at Google and we're excited that he is staying within the Android ecosystem."
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat Microsoft and Google's YouTube row says about the future of web development &gt;&gt; ZDNetSimon Bisson digs deep into that Google/Windows Phone/YouTube row:Drilling down into the code of the header that didn't render on Windows Phone, it's clear just why it didn't work. Much of the header layout requires WebKit-specific CSS; and that's CSS that won't display in other browsers. In fact if you drill down into any Google mobile app, there's plenty of WebKit specific code all the way through the application.Are the features that Google wants Microsoft to put into its browser those WebKit vendor prefixes? It's certainly relying on them in many of its web properties – and that would explain why it wants changes to Internet Explorer, allowing it to simplify the code in its JavaScript libraries and developer kits.It's tempting to build apps that rely on the latest features, and if they'll run on most of the devices out there, well, the rest will catch up someday. But that's a rationale that assumes that the W3C will standardise on those experimental features, and that the resulting CSS and HTML markup will end up in new editions of current browsers quickly.His conclusion: "Google appears to be using user agent sniffing to deliver different experiences to different browsers — a poor approach to modern web design".The man who 'got it' too much &gt;&gt; The KernelPascal-Emmanuel Gobry argues that conventional narratives have completely missed the point about Microsoft's outgoing CEO:Steve Ballmer is the guy who, when it became obvious the iPhone was a success, completely changed Microsoft's mobile strategy, and got his huge lumbering elephant of a company to deliver excellent software that is anything but a carbon copy of iOS (unlike a certain other mobile operating system of a certain other North California company).He's a guy who, when he saw how successful software-hardware integration was on mobile devices, built a close partnership with Nokia to deliver the same level of integration, and even experimented with building his own devices, going against 20 years of Microsoft tradition and potentially alienating dozens of partners.Steve Ballmer is the guy who before retiring published a public strategic memo defining Microsoft as a "devices and services" company – for a company that has always rejected those two types of businesses. A memo where the word "software", which has defined Microsoft for 30 years, doesn't appear even once.  Steve Ballmer "doesn't get it"? Puh-leeze.Microsoft's product manager for IE, Jonathan Wong (@armchairdude on Twitter) calls this the "best article on Ballmer's retirement that I have read so far".Google Chromecast first impressions and photos &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:Chromecast isn't a digital media set-top box. It's a dumb wireless display dongle. For $15 more you can get a complete, free-standing Roku box that comes with its own remote control. No brainer.Second, as alluded to above, Chromecast is extremely limited. You can stream content from the Google Play Store (music or video), from Netflix, and from YouTube only. By comparison, Roku sports over 750+ channels of entertainment, including all the heavy hitters: Netflix, HBO GO, Vudu, Crackle, Amazon Instant Video, Hulu Plus, MLB.TV Premium, Disney, EPIX, SyFy, NOOK Video, and many, many more. 750 vs. 3. Do the math.He also found the instructions sub-minimal - "I've seen more details on a cereal box give-away promotion" - and the device itself, once you add the necessary USB power, maximal.Web Search interest: Sailfish, Tizen, Firefox OS, Ubuntu Touch, Jolla &gt;&gt; Google TrendsHow does search interest in the also-ran mobile OSs stack up for the past 12 months? Although there seems to be an obvious winner, you have to dig into the regional data too.In defence of the Surface RT &gt;&gt; PC ProPaul Ockenden:Don't get me wrong, I love the Windows desktop, and I think the Windows 8 Start screen is a complete pain in the backside on a "normal" computer. But the desktop simply isn't suitable for tablets.Manufacturers have tried making a decent Windows-based tablet for years, and they've never worked properly. The "one-size-fits-all" philosophy of Windows 8 is a mistake, because tablets and desktops/laptops need different user interfaces. There, I've said it. Sorry, Microsoft.Other parts of his "support" include there being fewer apps than iOS/Android, the imperfect interface for Office on a tablet, and that lack of VBA macros. His payoff:There's only one little thing that worries me: for the past couple of weeks, the Surface has been sitting on the coffee table in my lounge next to my iPad, and every time I've wanted to check Twitter, post a Facebook status update or read my emails, I've reached for the latter.Other than that, Mrs Lincoln...HTC developing own smartphone operating system - WSJ.comEva Dou:HTC is developing a mobile software system specifically for Chinese consumers, people familiar with the project say, as part of a big China bet that the Taiwanese smartphone maker hopes will help revive sliding sales.Development of the smartphone operating system is being closely monitored by HTC's Chairwoman Cher Wang, who has been in discussions with Chinese government officials, said the people. The software involves deep integration with Chinese apps like the Twitter-like microblog Weibo and is slated to launch before the end of the year, they said.…HTC's China-specific software would play into a wider Chinese government policy to encourage the development of a unique local software ecosystem to reduce reliance on Western companies.A key question: is it Android, or something else? Google strongarmed Acer over its plans last year to offer a forked Android phone in China.Google Nexus 4 on sale for only £160 in the UK &gt;&gt; CNET UKLove a good bargain? Then step this way as Google's got a corker for you. The superb Nexus 4 smart phone now starts at only £160 for the 8gb model, a saving of £80 over its original price.The 16gb model has seen a similar reduction too, costing £200, rather than £280. That's a ridiculously good price for such a great phone.For your money you'll be getting a 4.7-inch phone with a crisp 720p display, a powerful quad-core processor and cool software extras like the photo sphere camera. The phone waltzed its way to earning a much coveted Editor's Choice award in our review.End of the line? A fantastic bargain whatever.Samsung decreases orders for 10.1-inch tablet components, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesSamsung is adopting a strategy to flood the market with various tablets including 7-, 8- and 10in models, as it seeks to dethrone Apple.Samsung shipped about 17m tablets in the first half of 2013 with 7in models accounting for 70% of the shipments. The 7in 8GB Galaxy Tab 2's US$169 and the new 7in 8GB Galaxy Tab 3's US$199 price points have both helped boost Samsung's 7in tablet sales significantly, the sources noted.However, Samsung's 10.1in tablets have performed weaker than expected. Samsung has recently cut its 10.1in Galaxy Tab 2's price to US$319 in North America and is selling its 10.1in Galaxy Tab 3 for US$379 and Galaxy Note for US$449, but the tablets have not been selling as well as expected despite the fact their prices are more attractive than Apple's 9.7in iPad 4.DBA Reactions &gt;&gt; TumblrDBA of course standing for Database administrator. Presently nearly 200 pages of perfectly chosen GIFs. Get reading.BlackBerry is a failed state &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedBlackBerry isn't quite DEC, nor is it Gateway or Palm. It's a company that even today has millions of active a loyal users, who don't just purchase BlackBerry products but use them every hour of every day — who live in them, and will soon have to live in something else. BlackBerry is less like a company than a country. A failed state: BlackBerria.BlackBerria exhibits all the classic signs of a collapsing country. Today, it's the kind of place that might compel the State Department to issue a travel advisory. It's a land where crime goes unpunished, where fires burn unextinguished, where citizens wander the streets alive but dazed, where the future is too foggy to inspire any feeling but despondency.BlackBerria is officially up for sale, and will be sold from a position of weakness — its suitors will look more like the World Bank than casual bond buyers.The picture illustrating the article is utterly brilliant. And the article itself will have you saying "Oh, yeah, true.."On Dickens, Rashomon and Twitter &gt;&gt; The Official Microsoft BlogFrank X. Shaw is head of Microsoft PR, and isn't enamoured of some of the coverage of Steve Ballmer's decision to go:Study after study shows we tend to focus on facts that support our beliefs, and ignore those that don't fit neatly.In research, this is known as confirmation bias, and it's a very hard thing to overcome, even when you are aware of it.So, if you really want to understand what's going on with a category as complex as the one we operate in, you've got your work cut out for you.In that spirit, there have been a few common themes in some of the coverage I've seen since Friday that are worth taking a moment to dissect and discuss.One approach has been to focus exclusively on some of our consumer businesses, and then judge us harshly while ignoring the successes we've had elsewhere.Another approach has been to go a step further, criticize our lack of "focus" and suggest that those other successes are actually a distraction from what they believe should be our single priority.What these themes reveal is a single narrow frame through which the writers and pundits view the industry itself that leads them to reach these conclusions.Since we have a different perspective that drives our strategy, we naturally see things differently.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
British phone users will embrace next generation 4G services far quicker than the 3G technology of the previous decade, according to O2, which joins Vodafone on Thursday in launching its super-fast internet network.The number of mobile operators offering 4G is trebling as O2 and Vodafone finally launch rival services to the high-speed EE network, which went live last October."This is a tipping point, because you have a multiple choice of who you get your service from, a significant choice of devices, and a clear timeline if you're a business for more ubiquitous access to high-speed data," said Ronan Dunne, chief executive of O2 in the UK.Speaking to the Guardian before Thursday's launch, which will see O2's network switched on inLondon, Leeds and Bradford, Dunne promised that there would be no repeat of the 3G "slow burn", which saw mobile-phone operators struggle to recoup their initial £22.5bn outlay on licences for new mobile phone spectrum. The 4G spectrum, which allows users to download a feature film on to their handset within minutes, cost four companies just £2.3bn despite offering a superior product to 3G. "We would expect the adoption curve to be significantly faster than for 3G," said Dunne.The government auctioned spectrum for 3G, which stands for third generation mobile standards, in 2000. But it took a further three years for any operator to deploy it. Even then, the mobile web did not take off until Steve Jobs introduced the iPhone in 2007.This time, Vodafone and O2 are planning a steady build-out. EE launched last year with 11 cities on the first day. It has now reached 100 urban centres. By contrast, Vodafone will haveonly London readyon Thursday. It is sharing masts with O2, and the pair will take until the end of the year to reach the 13 largest cities.But the firmly entrenched position of the smartphone in daily life ensures the popularity of the technology. EE expects more than 1 million subscribers by Christmas. On O2's network, there are already half a million 4G-ready phones in use. Assume a similar number at Vodafone, and there could be 2 million people paying for 4G by the end of the year.And that is before Three launches its version. The company has scheduled a debut for the fourth quarter of 2013. While cash constraints mean that the UK's smallest network is likely to take its time upgrading, relying instead on a souped-up version of 3G, all of its 9 million customers will have access to the new generation service from day one without having to pay extra or sign a new contract.The operators must now explain what can be done with 4G that was impossible on slower connections, with O2 in particular drawing the public imagination with its Be More Dog campaign, which encourages phone users to do more on the move – such as watching sports highlights. With EE's network already so far ahead, Vodafone and O2's promotions have emphasised lifestyle benefits over any promises about speed and coverage.Dunne says 4G will extend the experience of the modern living room, where families gather around the television set with tablets or phones in hand so that they can shop, contact friends, play games or even watch another show simultaneously."Your digital life doesn't stop when you leave your front door," he said. "That same rich media experience you can now take outside."However, 4G is expensive if used frequently. Apart from Three, all networks will place monthly caps on downloads, which means that fixed line broadband remains better value for people who use the internet heavily. The cheapest 4G plans cost £26 for 1 gigabyte of data a month, which is less than the total needed to download a single high definition feature film."For the average user, mobile is not a direct substitute for fixed line and broadcast – it's a complement to them," says Dunne. "It is the last 15 minutes of the football and I want to catch it because I'm not going to get home in time. You won't watch four hours of Wimbledon sitting in front of a four inch screen."One of the strongest use cases for 4G is as an aid to working life, particularly for those whose jobs are out in the field. Salesmen, architects or plumbers can send information to and from the office using cloud software. Growing companies may be able to take on staff working from home without having to find office space for them."Small businesses will see this as a way of cutting the umbilical cord to their desk," says Dunne. "It's about having an office in the palm of your hand. We have talked about digital Britain for a long time, but now we are actually building the infrastructure on which the digital economy can be supported."What about 5G?Even though 4G is in its infancy, Chinese technology company Huawei has declared that 5G mobile networks will be ready by 2020. Fifth generation mobile standard connections will be 100 times faster than today's fourth generation, or 4G. The 5G services would run at 10Gb per second, compared with a theoretical maximum of 100Mb per second under 4G.However, speeds achieved in the laboratory are very different to those experienced on the street. While the fastest parts of EE's 4G network have a laboratory speed of 130Mb, this translates to an advertised speed of up to 60Mb, while the average customer receives 13.6Mbps, according to the most recent tests by researcherRoot Metrics. Nonetheless, that 13.6Mb enables video calls, streaming of Hollywood films and sports highlights, as well as album downloads. Although album downloads are already possible on iPhones that use 3G networks, the process will be noticeably quicker on 4G.Reasonably fast mobile internet services began with 3G. Its precursor 2G was voice calls and text messaging, although developments such as GPRS (2.5G) and EDGE (2.75G) allowed slow web browsing, while 1G refers to analogue standards used by the brick-sized devices of the 1980s. The UK's first 3G network arrived in 2003, and Root Metrics says average 3G speeds now vary from 3.2Mb on O2, to 5.5Mb on the Three network – with 4G more than double that speed.• This article was amended on 1 September 2013. The earlier version said that "Mobile internet services began with 3G. Its precursor 2G was for voice calls, while 1G refers to analogue standards…"
Spammers posting links on Facebook fan pages to send people to third-party scam sites are earning $200m every year, according to calculations by a team of Italian security researchers who have investigated hundreds of thousands of posts on the social network.Andrea Stroppa and Carlo De Micheli, the leaders of the group, analysed pages across the network, and identified spam through the use of phrases such as "Hey click here for a free iPhone" followed by links to sites outside the network.They also discovered sites where spammers offer to set up fake fan pages in order to tempt Facebook users to click on links.A page with spam links on FacebookThe postings breach Facebook's terms of service, which says that "third-party advertisements on [fan] Pages are prohibited without our prior permission."But trying to catch and get rid of the spammers is a growing problem for Facebook. The revenue that the spammers - and those running the sites linked to - do not form part of Facebook's revenue, but instead piggyback on the success of the social network, which now has more than a billion users worldwide.The URLs to the outside sites have their destination hidden by using legitimate link-shortening services such as Tinyurl.com or bit.ly. That also makes it possible for researchers to track the ultimate destination - and figure out how many people click on the link.If spammers use bit.ly, it is possible to track how many clickthroughs there have been for a linkAbout 9% of the pages that users were directed to by spammers instead use Google's AdSense - meaning that Google inadvertently gets a cut from the money being made by the buyers of spam services.Pay per post"The spam posters get paid an average of $13 per post, for pages that have around 30,000 fans, up to an average of $58 to post on pages with more than 100,000 fans," De Micheli told the Guardian. "If we consider these two as extremes, the pages we analysed generate a revenue of 18,000 posts per day, times the revenue per post - ranging from $13 to $58 - 365 days a year."That gives a range for the spammers' earnings of between $87m and $390m - but when they took into account the number of fans of the pages, the weighted average was just over $200m annually.Often the spammers begin by setting up their own "fan pages" and attract human users to them - and then once they have enough Likes on the page they can begin selling links on it to third parties.Stroppa and De Micheli found 20 key sites where spammers congregated offering "black marketing" in which they would contract to post spam links in return for cash.But the spammers argue that they are helping Facebook. One told the researchers over Skype: "Facebook doesn't ban us, simply because we generate the content on Facebook itself. Everyday I materialize funny, and interesting content full of phrases and so forth that is shared and liked by thousands of users. Without the fan pages Facebook would be an empty place. Tell me how many links do you see shared by your friends on your timeline everyday? You see - the answer is simple."But Stroppa and De Micheli counter that the spammer's motive is pure financial self-interest: "For people involved in this business the sole reason to continue is for the profit. We even found somebodywho was sellinga page dedicated to the memory of the victims of the Boston terrorist attack for $1,000."In April, the Italian team uncovered themultimillion-pound business of selling fake Twitter followers, estimating then that as many as 20m were created by spammers and so fake. There, they calculated that Twitter followers were sold in packages - ranging from $1 for 1,000 extra followers, up to $1,000 for a million. They reckoned that made it a business worth between $40m and $360m.Long term businessIn looking into Facebook spam, the researchers found posts offering to sell spam links on Facebook fan pages dating back to 2010. But on the present-day forums, they found spammers' prices for posting to pages which already had more than 30,000 "Likes" - and so would be likely to show up in peoples' News feeds, or be regularly visited - varied from $8 to $20. For pages with over 100,000 Likes, the prices ranged from $35 to $100.They also uncovered a network of 30,000 pages involved in posting spam to Facebook.What is spam on Facebook? Italian researchers offer their guidance"Third parties pay spammers to post their links on Facebook pages, to reach the largest amount of users possible," said De Micheli. For the financial model to work, the third parties must be accruing benefits even greater than they are paying the spammers - though it is impossible to know what their rate of return might be."We notice that it is rather common for the landing page [from a link] to be a product on an e-commerce site made to monetise quickly rather than to generate traffic on a home page," De Micheli said. "Links to YouTube can be used to generate views, and so money - view generation on YouTube is a fast-growing market." YouTube offers revenue-sharing arrangements with a number of users.Another outside site identified by the researchers promises that some people who post affiliate links - which pay an intermediary small amounts for clickthroughs to the main site - are getting paid "thousands of dollars per day".According to their analysis, around one in eight of the pages they looked at was actually harbouring spam links.Facebook actionFacebook takes action against spam pages and posts where they are reported by users, but the sheer volume of spam postings could overwhelm its checkers' ability to crack down on spam.A Facebook spokesperson said: "Protecting the people who use Facebook is a top priority for us, and we have developed a number of automated systems to identify potentially harmful links and stop them from spreading. Those systems quickly spotted these links, and we are working to clear them from the site now."In the meantime, we have been blocking people from clicking through the links and have reported the bad browser extensions to the appropriate parties. We believe only a small percentage of our users were affected by this issue, and we are currently working with them to ensure that they've removed the bad browser extension. We will keep improving our systems to ensure that people continue to have a safe experience on Facebook."
Facebook has pledged to publish regular reports detailing government requests for user data, as it reveals thatUK authorities asked for informationon 2,337 users in the first half of 2013.Its first 'global government requests report'published on Tuesdayincludes requests from the police and child protection agencies, as well as national security bodies. It claims that 38,000 requests were made globally.The report shows that Facebook complied with 68% of the 1,975 UK government requests, the majority of which typically involve identifying contact details and locations of suspects in criminal cases, missing persons, as well as information related to terrorism under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, the Guardian understands.Requests do not involve handing over log-in details to the police, and Facebook has not received any financial compensation for its compliance work in the UK, though it is legally entitled to payment. The company rejects requests which do not comply with local law, international standards or Facebook's terms.In the US, Facebook is able to indicate how many requests are criminal and how many related to national security, while in the UK requests are not broken down.Facebook, along with Google and other web companies, is trying to push the focus of controversy over theNSA'sgathering of consumer data back onto the US government. The company, which is a publicly traded company with a market capitalisation of $100bn (£64.6bn), has said it intends to regularly publish a transparency report including take-down requests."Transparency and trust are core values at Facebook. We strive to embody them in all aspects of our services, including our approach to responding to government data requests," Colin Stretch, Facebook general counsel, said in a blogpost."We want to make sure that the people who use our service understand the nature and extent of the requests we receive and the strict policies and processes we have in place to handle them."Facebook has a dedicated European law enforcement team based at its offices in Dublin, it said the size of the team depended on the workload and it uses outside counsel.The US accounted for more than half the global requests, which demanded information on up to 21,000 users. Indian authorities requested information on 4,144 individuals, Germany 2,068 and Italy 2,306. Requests were refused in several countries including Bangladesh, Egypt, South Africa, Russia and Qatar."We have stringent processes in place to handle all government data requests," said Stretch."We believe this process protects the data of the people who use our service, and requires governments to meet a very high legal bar with each individual request in order to receive any information about any of our users. We scrutinise each request for legal sufficiency under our terms and the strict letter of the law, and require a detailed description of the legal and factual bases for each request."We fight many of these requests, pushing back when we find legal deficiencies and narrowing the scope of overly broad or vague requests. When we are required to comply with a particular request, we frequently share only basic user information, such as name."• Did you know that the National Security Agency in the US haspaid millions of dollars to internet companiesto cover the cost of providing consumer data?
Twitter's inline image service remains out of action hours after the site's domain name server (DNS) record was hacked, apparently by the hacker group Syrian Electronic Army (SEA), as part of a cyber-attack against the registrar for sites including the New York Times.Images and some avatars posted to Twitter's twimg.com domain are not appearing when viewed on the web or in Twitter applications because the domain where the pictures are posted, twimg.com, had its domain name details altered on Tuesday.The New York Times is also affected by the hack, which was carried out against an Australian registrar, Melbourne IT, which separately confirmed that it had been the cause of the failure.The SEA acquired the user login and password for a US-based reseller via a "spear phishing" email - closely targeted to the user to fool them into passing the details into a fake site. "The attack has been sent to a variety of staff of our reseller," Theo Hnarakis, Melbourne IT's chief executive told Australian AP. "A few of those staff have responded inadvertently."Armed with the login and password, the SEA hackers were able to change the details of the NYT and Twitter registration so that they pointed to servers of its choice.They crowed about their success - ironically, on Twitter, where they have had their account deleted 15 times in the past year or so.Some local Twitter sites - including its India site at twitter.co.in - appear to be still controlled by the SEA. "How Twitter looks when the twimg.com was down", ittweeted- linking to a picture hosted on the twimg.com domain, which therefore didn't appear.Aposting on the Twitter status blognoted thatAt 20:49 UTC, our DNS provider experienced an issue in which it appears DNS records for various organizations were modified, including one of Twitter's domains used for image serving, twimg.com. Viewing of images and photos was sporadically impacted. By 22:29 UTC, the original domain record for twimg.com was restored.  No Twitter user information was affected by this incident.However it could take some time for the correct information to re-propagate to other DNS server. DNS updates are not passed on immediately, and can take a day or more to be passed among the DNS server systems used to direct traffic to websites around the web.Read:what is DNS?A similar hack wasused by Turkish hackers against the Daily Telegraph and The Register websites in September 2011,redirecting traffic to its own site, and in 2010 China's Baiduthreatened to sue its US registrar over a similar hack.Twitter users and some people trying to view the New York Times are still being affected because DNS (domain name server) detail changes are not sent immediately to other computers, which use DNS services to look up the physical address of websites: when they are passed a URL such as "theguardian.com", the systems check the records held on the nearest DNS cache to see which internet address to connect to.A data security source said that there had been a rise in phishing attacks relating to domain names in the past two weeks, with a number appearing to come from Chinese registrars saying there had been a "domain name dispute" and asking domain owners to re-enter their details.Hnarakis said that "all passwords have been changed, the right blocks have been established, so we're fairly confident this won't occur again."But Chester Wisniewski of the security company Sophos cautioned: "You are only as strong as your weakest link, which in this case appears to be an external internet service provider."
