"Security experts have made a breakthrough in their five-month battle against the Conficker worm, with the discovery that the malware leaves a fingerprint on infected machines which is easy to detect using a variety of off-the-shelf network scanners," reportsThe Register. The story says:"This is an extraordinarily inexpensive, not-very-time-intensive way of finding machines on your network that are actually running malicious software," said Dan Kaminsky, one of the three researchers who discovered the Conficker fingerprint. "This is not something we get to do all the time. Most pieces of malicious software are not that easy to find."Signature files are rapidly becoming available for network scanning programs, so this is a good time for IT staff to act. They should be able to scan their networks before April 1, when Conficker is expected to do something. Whether it will do anything significant remains a matter of speculation.IT staff who were not competent enough to install the Microsoft patch (MS08-067) when it appearedlast Octobershould at least try to hire someone competent enough to run a network scan.The fingerprint approach allows large numbers of PCs to be checked for infections without scanning each machine separately. It probably doesn't help individual users, who should be able to use their usual anti-virus software to detect and remove Conficker. Those who don't have any AV software can use Microsoft's freeMalicious Software Removal Tool.Microsoft has been running MSRT on PCs before installing auto-updates or Internet Explorer 8, so it must already have removed some Conficker infections. However, if Conficker has infected 10m machines, this is only about 1% of the installed base, and a proportion of those PCs probably don't connect to Microsoft's servers for security or software updates.Conficker may also disable software and services such as Windows Defender, the Security Center and automatic updates, and try to prevent access to anti-virus software sites. However, it probably won't block access tothis version of MSRT, and users can also download a copy via a different PC.Conficker is not doing anything damaging, at the moment, but it's a serious threat because it can be used to download further malware. Conficker's controller could, for example, set up a botnet to attack (and blackmail) commercial websites, distribute very large volumes of spam (for money), or encrypt users' data and demand a fee for the password. Companies and users with important data should therefore make sure they have proper backups before April 1. There's no point in being Conficker's April Fool.Otherwise, asPanda Labs says, "Above all, don't get taken in by the panic.  What do users do on the April 1st? If you have your PCs protected by a good and updated antivirus, nothing."
The world's most notorious filesharing website has decided to thumb its nose at the authorities once again – by linking itself up to the world's biggest social network.Users of the Pirate Bay – the controversial Swedish website that keeps a huge index of movies, music and videogame downloads – can now point their Facebook contacts to their favourite files with a single click, regardless of whether the download is legal or not.Once users click the "share on Facebook" button, it instantly updates the users' entry on the social networking site and offers up a link to download the file directly to any of their friends on the 175m-strong service.The move could potentially allow less technically savvy users to download files which might otherwise prove inaccessible – or even lead them to pirate movies or music without realising that they could be infringing copyright.Although the new feature uses Facebook, however, it does not appear to have been given the blessing of the Californian company.The site's system allows anyone to build applications or services similar to the Pirate Bay sharing button – but according to Facebook's terms of service, it is against the site's rules for users to "upload, post, transmit, share, store or otherwise make available" any content that it believes is "unlawful" or "infringing".A Facebook spokeswoman told the Guardian last night that the company was "looking into it and have contacted the developer, but have taken no action as yet".What seems clear, however, is that the system could make the site's users – who are largely identified by their real names and have large amounts of personal information and activity stored on the website's servers – fresh targets in the entertainment industry's campaign against illegal downloading.After a series of legal battles that led to the shutdown or limitation of other services including Napster, Grokster and Kazaa, the Pirate Bay has become the latest subject of legal threat.Although previous attempts to close the site have failed, a two-year investigation by Swedish police finally led to a court case challenging the site's legality, which started in February.During thethree-week trial, four men affiliated with the Pirate Bay were accused by prosecutors ofmasterminding a multimillion pound operationthat deliberately infringed copyright law and incited others to do the same. Lawyers argued for a sentence of one year in prison for each of the men, who they said had aided and abetted illegal activity."A person who is holding someone's coat while they assault someone else is complicit in the crime," lead prosecutor Hakan Roswell told the court in Stockholm.In response, defence lawyers argued that the Pirate Bay merely acts as a search engine for so-called torrent files – which can allow both legal and illegal downloads. Because the site does not discriminate between the two, they argued, it was effectively no different to other search engines such as Google. A result is due from the Stockholm district court next month.News of the Facebook link has already angered officials at the music industry recording body the IFPI, which led the Swedish court case."Anyone who provides torrent links for downloading of copyrighted material on the web is committing a criminal offence," Swiss newspaper20 Minutenquoted Beat Högger, a local IFPI spokesman, as saying: "Facebook has, despite an extensive disclaimer ... allowed protected material to pass through the door."A spokesman at the IFPI's headquarters in London did not respond to a request for further comment.If did begin looking at Facebook as a basis for legal action against its users, it would be just the latest in a string of threats to the privacy of social network users. Last week the Home Office saidit wanted to monitor all conversationson sites including Facebook, MySpace and Bebo.The proposals for internet eavesdropping, which are due to be unveiled in the next few weeks, could give police the right to monitor private conversations on social networks like Facebook and MySpace – a move that was greeted with concern by civil liberties campaigners."Technological development is used as an excuse for centralised snooping of a kind that ought never to be acceptable in the oldest unbroken democracy on Earth," said Shami Chakrabati, the director of human rights group Liberty.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
You may have alreadyseen the newsthat more than a thousand computers have been compromised, in what appears to be a well-directed attack against Tibetan exiles. We've covered itextensively, and it's got plenty of headlines.While thebasic detailsare clear - and well illuminated by reports from researchers in Toronto, Illinois and Cambridge - plenty of questions remain unanswered. The most important revolve around the origins of the strike: where did it come from, and is the Chinese military actively sponsoring these hackers to steal about other nations and administrations?All this talk of silicon warfare is more than a little reminiscent of the Cold War - tales of hi-tech espionage, secrets being stolen, and brinkmanship by the spokesman of various national factions.  But even the researchers who have uncovered the attacks disagree on whether or not there is sufficient evidence of state-sponsored espionage.Intheir paper, Shishir Nagaraja and Ross Anderson make the case that it's definitely the result of Chinese state surveillance, calling the perpetrators "agents of the Chinese government". Meanwhile the University of Toronto researchers say that it is too easy to make assumptions."Some may conclude that what we lay out here points definitively to China as the culprit," say the University of Toronto researchers intheir report. "Certainly Chinese cyber-espionage is a major global concern... but attributing all Chinese malware to deliberate or targeted intelligence gathering operations by the Chinese state is wrong and misleading."The truth is that, like many of the delicate issues arising around cybersecurity, it is almost impossible to definitively work out who was behind the attack. The Chinese government is certainly well-known for itsambivalent attitude to international computer crime- on one hand claiming that hacking is punishable by death, while apparentlytraining up an army of computer spieson the other.But over and above the Chinese state's relationship with the internet, there is also a strong and effective group of Chinese neo-nationalists who see it as part of their job to protect the country from its enemies. Theyorganise online protests and attacks. They feel that the western world does not understand the Tibetan problem. They act in an apparently independent manner, butact in a mannerthat seems to further the Chinese government's agenda.The truth is, it's very hard to get to the truth. And, even worse, it's not unusual to be without evidence in circumstances like this: the nature of well-conducted, modern cyberwarfare is that it is almost untraceable.Security experts in Estonia have long blamed Russian government agents for the2007 attackon their country's infrastructure - but even when I met up withNato's leading cyberdefence team, they were unable to show any direct evidence that proved it was an act by the Russian state and not an independent group.It may eventually be clear that the Chinese government is directly behind these cyber-attacks. But state intelligence, at least, has been a known quantity for many years. What if these attacks are the result of something more worrying: a loose conglomeration of disaffected, motivated cyberwarriors who are rallied around an issue or moral stance?Whether it's nationalist groups or those who identify ideologically with groups like Al Qaeda, this guerilla cyberwar could prove more dangerous in the short term - and much harder to cope with.
This week (well actually sort oflastweek) Limni took the 'Best of' steering wheel and managed to navigate a conversational spaghetti junction that merged Resident Evil 5 criticism with theories of outer space zombification.Remember, I want YOUR photos to illustrate this section from now on. And in the absence of any entries (send them to gamesblog + at + gmail + com), here is a screenshot of Killzone 2, which takes us directly to...Part one: the NaN goes from strength to strengthLast week, Rex gave you the lowdown on the early days of NaNageddon and its glorious first match. I'm sure you were all on tenterhooks, eagerly awaiting the next chapter in group's rise to inevitable mediocrity. Well, for those who weren't there, persons unknown within NaN accepted a challenge for 7:15 am on Monday morning.Makar27tells all: "It was only one guy again - about seven or eight of us from NaN made it, but just the lone guy from the other clan - think it was the same guy as last time. At least we didn't lose Bodycount to him this time.... It was a draw. But I don't think there were any friendly fire incidents...."An improvement on 16 v 1 I suppose.Goody84was at least prepared to be merciful: "He messaged me asking, 'is it worth it?' I tried to reason with him, that we could try to make it as quick as possible."Crispycrumbhad his tactical head on: "May have thought about this a bit too much, but it occurred to me that specialising the squads a bit might be useful. For example, have a couple of 'offense' squads with assault and sabs, a 'generalist' squad for utility, and a 'defense' squad with snipers and engineers. That way you'd have base/defend objectives covered, could hammer the opposition and have a reserve handy to do both. Swapping classes according to game modes/maps during the match could be useful too. As could some actual proper opposition. Thoughts?"Uncle3entook time out from making sweet &amp; sour sauce to organise the next match on Thursday against a Norwegian clan, followed by a cull of clan officers to avoid any future 7:15am matches.Art1eFufkinwas the first to enlighten us on Friday morning: "Another NAN victory then, once more by weight of sheer numbers. Still, at least it was vs four players rather than one. And we even got more kills than them - woohoo! I'm still not sure how they managed the assassination though, I think the assassin must have been invisibled up. Unclear on the battle replay."With the skills and teamwork displayed by EnglishRed (The best moment of the game for me was when I inadvertently team killed Umboros just as he was about to deliver the propaganda device, then ran through to deliver it myself!) and Chubster2010 world domination is surely only a matter of time. I had a shocker though - three team kills. Whoops. Killed Killerbee twice (once by accident, once because I thought he was a disguised enemy....he wasn't!) and grenaded someone else.Part two: Resident Evil 5The big release of the week had already provoked its fair share of controversy, but after a few hours of gameplay, the Chatterboxers were ready to add their views.BillyBrushprovided his own brand of slightly surreal criticism: "Well, it's a very well produced high-quality game all in all, with lovely lighting and graphics, and plays enjoyably. Yawn. It is good, you can't turn your nose up at great graphics and good bosses, but it is also Resident Evil 4.... it's an Extreme Makeover on the surface, but the person beneath still has all the same character traits."PhilosopherK1ngwas very pleased with it: "It is even more linear than 4, which is a shame as I love exploring levels and environments - but I enjoyed it much, much more than I expected. And the controls just 'clicked' and felt natural again, as they had on Resi 4."Sheep2provided a quick lowdown: "Bad: The companion system. Doesn't work that well. It's just an exercise in resource management.Every object you can interact with is highlighted when you get close. It's like being led through the game by an idiot. You can't look closely at stuff that is not highlighted."Good: The game really is good to play. It has a tense atmosphere, though more FPS tense than survival horror tense. I have not yet seen the pirate merchants from Resi 4."Conclusion: Plenty of grumps, yet almost certainly compelling enough to complete. I still remain hopeful that Capcom will see fit too design a proper single player survival horror Resi game again."Part three: do you do Dynamic?GhostDazkept things game-related with this observation on Guitar Hero: "Has the advertising ever been mentioned before? I was playing it last night and noticed a big poster on the wall of one venue advertising Quantum of Solace being released on DVD on the 23rd March.Either they demonstrated a great degree of foresight when making the game or that has been sent to me by some sort of magic. Has anyone else noticed dynamic advertising in games before?"RobLindsaymentioned BF2142 and The Matrix Online: "BF2142 had some if memory serves, there was another one advertising that Babylon AD film to death. I've seen a few coke cans in things as well. Matrix Online took the p**s with it though, Powerade adverts and Nokia adverts on every corner"Chubster2010sort of spotted an example: "Burnout paradise has in-game adverts on billboards and Gillette branded vans! (though I don't think they update a la BF: 2142)."So not really dynamic then…PhilosopherK1ngseems to have better info: "Rainbow 6: Vegas 2 has real-time ads - I was utterly distracted recently by billboards advertising Watchmen. I think it's bloody genius. Does make you wonder what's on there when it isn't online though... hmmm. Even more brilliantly, last year Barack Obama paid for billboard ads in Burnout Paradise which were targeted to show only in certain US states. Absolutely, utterly cool. Can't see any of our politicians doing that."Anyone got better examples?Part four: Space Zombies!By now, everyone should be familiar with the Chatterbox's high level of preparedness for the imminent zombie apocalypse.Lazybonesdid his best to help us think outside the box by posing this apparently innocent question:"Is it warm in space, by the sun? Occasionally you read that the Earth is in the 'Goldilocks Zone' where it's not too hot and not too cold for life. Well does that mean the whole of this 'Goldilocks Zone' is warm?"Zelosand I disagreed – I said: "No, no it's not. It's not the near-absolute-zero of interstellar space, but it's still pretty cold." Whereas he opined "I think overheating is actually a problem in space, because there's no atmosphere to convect heat away." Let's not get into the whole 'who was right' thing, and just say it wasn't me.Crispycrumbgot it pretty much spot on: "Space isn't hot because there's nothing to heat - it's the excitation of atoms/molecules that causes something to warm up. So, if you're in space you are in an object, which gets warmed up, and as there's nothing to conduct the heat away from you, you get overheating" Here endeth the physics lessons.The conversation wandered from how vacuum causes you to die, to Total Recall, to CBPodge being more confused than he was to start with, to Boozy's detailed description of vacuum exposure injuries.Then,MajorDeCoverlyhis upon the key issues: "Would a zombie survive in space? And if so what weapon would you use to kill it, bearing in mind the cumbersome nature of your spacesuit and the added danger of the suit being damaged. I'd go for a bloody long stick and just push them away into the depths of space. Might not kill them but at least they'd be nowhere near me."Goody84 would stick to using his fists. I advised keeping clear of zombie infested space, andCBPodgeunearthed the reason for space zombies in the first place: "They should let you conduct your own experiments while you're up there, like seeing how well a wasp can fly in zero gravity, or the effects of African Rabies at ultra-high altitudes."A last word fromBeardOfBees: "Zombies In Space II: Return Trajectory. 'A year alone in space... ain't made them any friendlier.'"Quote of the week"I still think the all-time make-your-bowels-move game is Project Zero 1"BillyBrush gives his advice on stopping that bloated feeling.More Quotes"Played a guy with Vega and in the process of handing him his teeth he just started abusing me over the mic "Oh my God you're so crap.... ha ha you're SO crap.... all you do is jump you pr**k...". I beat him without losing a round, chose Ken, and did the same without jumping once this time, and perfected him on the last round. Left me with a big smile on my face for the rest of the evening."BeardOfBees doesn't take Streetfighter IV seriously at all."I bought a saw today and now feel a little bit more manly than I did this morning."MajorDeCoverley admits what we all know – buying tools is the most manly thing you can do!"I have just left a meeting after suffocating four senior managers using nothing but their windpipes and the contents of four tins of Lidl ownbrand re-fried beans. Not really, but virtually."Mollocate did warn us to inform the relevant authorities about him."In vagrant parlance, meths and milk is called a White Lady"You have to wonder how Alimantado knows this.Links of the WeekALobster with a bit ofserious thinking about gameswhich was cruelly overlooked at the time!TonyHayers shares the horror of some of hislocal hostelries.New faces:JamesWMoar, NilFeeder, Boso
Two computer scientists investigating the penetration of computer systems run by  the Office of His Holiness the Dalai Lama (OHHDL) have concluded that the  "combination of well-written malware with well-designed email lures, which we call social malware, is devastatingly effective. Few organisations outside the defence and intelligence sector could withstand such an attack."Shishir Nagaraja from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and Ross Anderson from the Cambridge University Computer Laboratory helped the OHHDL with a forensic investigation of the penetration described inTracking Ghostnet: Investigating a Cyber Espionage Network, published in Information Warfare Monitor. The first author visited the OHHDL's office in Dharamsala. Their report,The snooping dragon: social-malware surveillance of the Tibetan movement, is now available online.The method turned out to be simple. The attackers wrote emails that appeared to come from fellow Tibetans or even co-workers, and added malware attachments that enabled them to log keystrokes and access the infected PCs remotely. The report says: "We assume that one monk clicked on an infected attachment, giving the attackers their first foothold." However, the authors noted that the monks were sending emails as plain text, instead of encrypting them, and that some used passwords that could be cracked in 15 minutes.Also, "although this particular case involved the agents of a major power, the attack could in fact have been mounted by a capable motivated individual."In the past, attackers might have needed technical skills to create their code, but today, the malware industry works on a commercial basis. People who want it can buy it.Although this type of malware is most common for Microsoft Windows, which we assume the OHHDL was using, it can be created for any operating system.The larger problem is that "the 'best practice' advice that one sees in the corporate sector comes nowhere even close to preventing such an attack," say the authors. They believe that the OHHDL staff "were probably more aware of the Chinese threat and as a result more alert than a typical company security team," and that "the Tibetans' performance has been more effective than we would have expected from a randomly-chosen Western organisation."In sum, a typical western company could be hacked just as easily, but might be less likely to notice that its systems had been compromised.In this case, the Chinese attackers made a fundamental mistake. The report says the monks "sent an email invitation on behalf of His Holiness to a foreign diplomat, but before they could follow it up with a courtesy telephone call, the diplomat's office was contacted by the Chinese government and warned not to go ahead with the meeting."This alerted the OHHDL staff to the possibility of a security leak, which they then had investigated by experts.Key defences against social malware include controlling information flows and making sure sensitive data are never held on internet-connected computers, but stored on ones that don't have email or browsers installed. But operating with increased levels of security has its drawbacks. The report says:"In fact, neither of the two authors is confident that we could keep secrets on a network-connected machine that we used for our daily work in the face of determined interest from a capable motivated opponent. The necessary restrictions on online activity would not be consistent with effective academic work."
Bus ads from around the worldInspiring examples of the humble bus realising its ambitions for greater things than atheist slogans and Victoria Beckham in her knickers. Highlights include a Jaws-style trompe l'oeil masterpiece and this patent reminder that jaywalking will kill you before religion does.Super ChameleonSure to send discerning chameleons everywhere rushing to purchase a particular brand of sunglasses, this ad is rapidly earning its viral stripes (of every hue). Never mind that it's all down to colour-editing wizardry - its star reptile is an inordinately likable style star.StereogumsThe inaugural Twitter round-up from the trusty Stereogum music site presents a dizzying hop through the psyches of pop's luminaries and lightweights. Ready yourself for Little Boots having more fun than you, P Diddy's bout of exclamation-mark diarrhoea and Fred Durst going all gnomic on your ass.TracksDoves, Kingdom of RustiTunes 79pSwelling sorrow and euphoria in the title track from the Mancunians' acclaimed fourth album as they stake their claim to an Elbow-sized resurgence.Glass Candy, Chameleon (Johan Agebj&ouml;rn Remix)free streamhereThe electropop duo receive their first proper remix from Sally Shapiro's producer.Passion Pit, The Reelingmyspace.com/passionpitjams, free streamThe synth-pop quintet indicate they might just live up to the buzz with this feelgood first single.VideosGrizzly Bear, Live at SXSWA true gem from Texas's annual music festival as Beach House's Victoria Legrand steps in to croon along with Ed Droste to the swooning melodies of "Two Weeks".
The "Place for Friends" is starting to feel lonely. MySpace, the Rupert Murdoch-owned website once synonymous with social networking, is losing popularity and key staff in its biggest troubles since launching five years ago.Latest figures show that Murdoch is being beaten in the fight for social networks. MySpace suffered a drop in visitor traffic last month and is now less than half the size of its younger rival, Facebook. Three executives recently quit the one-time darling of the internet and there is speculation its co-founders will follow.MySpace's loss of status as the cool place to be is an object lesson in the notoriously fickle internet, where today's cultural icon is tomorrow's passing fad. From humble origins in 2003, the site led the so-called "Web 2.0" revolution in which users could create their own profile pages and share content with friends. Murdoch's purchase of MySpace for $580m was seen as a masterstroke as membership continued to soar, with celebrities and politicians joining the craze.But then came Facebook, founded by Harvard student Mark Zuckerberg, which soon snowballed with an older and apparently more affluent demographic to steal MySpace's crown. Gradually newspaper coverage of social networks switched from references to "MySpace and Facebook" to "Facebook and MySpace". The rise of Bebo also undermined MySpace's dominance, while Twitter is among the latest novelties eating into users' attention spans.MySpace had 124 million monthly unique visitors last month, a decline of 2%, according to the marketing research company comScore. Facebook, by contrast, racked up 276 million unique visitors, an increase of 16.6%.Michael Arrington, co-editor of the influential industry blog TechCrunch, posted: "What was a bad situation in November 2008 is starting to turn outright ugly - Facebook is now well over twice the size of MySpace ... It was less than a year ago that MySpace and Facebook were the same size."There are clues behind the scenes that all is not well at Murdoch's Fox Interactive Media, which runs the site.Amit Kapur, MySpace's chief operating officer, resigned after little more than a year in the post to set up a new company. He will be joined by Jim Benedetto and Steve Pearman, senior vice-presidents of engineering and product strategy.The exodus comes amid speculation of further departures and rumours that MySpace's co-founders, Chris DeWolfe and Tom Anderson, could also walk away in October after the end of their contracts, each worth $30m over two years.MySpace is clinging on to a marginal lead over Facebook in America but trails badly in Europe. In Britain, Facebook overtook its competitor in September 2007, the comScore data shows.Nick Thomas, an analyst at Forrester Research, said: "In the last 12 months Facebook has extended its dominance in every territory in Europe." However, he added: "I'm not convinced that it's terminal for MySpace. The battle isn't over yet."
BMW X6&pound;41,490Miles per gallon:34.4CO2 per km:217 gramsGood for:Muddy tracksBad for:Laughter tracksIn the name of fair-mindedness I am going to list the positives that BMW has managed to bury in a blizzard of negatives on its new X6 - the world's first, and surely last, Sports Activity Coupe. There's the... erm... oh... and... the... Actually, I can't think of any. Usually, in the course of a week's test drive, even the most unprepossessing of vehicles manage to show some glimmer of hope; reveal some crumb of charm that makes the venture worthwhile. It may not be until the last day that you discover the boot light that doubles as a nifty torch, or that there's a self-raising sun-screen hidden in the parcel shelf. But each time I sat behind the wheel of the X6 there was just more disappointment. You could say it was my own stupid fault. Just look at it for heaven's sake. It's a giant bloater on wheels, a dull-eyed leviathan that seems washed up before its taken its maiden voyage. Even Peter Stringfellow in his beach thong looks more respectable. But, and here's the catch, people still want to buy them - this year's production was sold out before many prospective customers had even had the chance to sit in one. However, just because somebody wants an X6 is no reason to give them one. Sometimes customers need to be protected from their baser urges.The X6 picks up where the excellent X5 left off. In fact, the X6 looks like a trodden-on X5 - and you can still buy a standard X5 that offers similar performance, economy and emissions for less money. And you'll be able to sit more people in more comfort in an X5. The sloping roofline of the X6, which must have had BMW's over-excited designers whooping and high-fiving in delight when they got it past their gangmasters, has the twin effect of making the car ugly from the outside and uncomfortable in the inside. Even children hunched over their Nintendos don't like sitting in cramped seats with no headroom and small windows. Even worse, there are only two seats in the back so it's clearly intended for adults... Oh dear. Moving on, we can't worry about that because we're busy doing battle up front. The X6 has been blessed with BMW's counterintuitive iDrive - a multi-purpose knob that controls everything from the in-car entertainment to navigation and climate. It's a source of endless frustration. The simple act of turning on the radio is enough to bring you to tears. Then there are the baffling parking sensors which have a mind of their own. The electronic handbrake is certainly clever, but it works in the opposite way to what you'd expect. Visibility is worse than the rear stalls at the Lyceum and even getting out of the car is an obstacle course - a rubber-pimpled running board means that the backs of your legs get covered in grime every time you manage to escape this beast's clutches.To drive, the X6 feels monstrously heavy, a lumbering slab of pumped-up muscle. They say there are two types of rugby player - those who play the piano and those who move them. The same could be said for 4x4s, and the X6 is definitely in the latter category.martin.love@observer.co.uk
There's a delicious moment in Alastair Beaton's satirical film, The Trial of Tony Blair, in which the former prime minister is finally arrested for war crimes on a warrant from the international criminal court. One scene shows the standard police procedure as Blair is inducted by the desk sergeant in a London station. Towards the end of the rigmarole, the policeman moves to take a saliva swab from him.Blair is aghast, asks him what he is doing and - after the policeman has explained that's he's taking a DNA sample - asks who brought in such a stupid law. "You did, sir," is the response.The irony, of course, is that Blair led New Labour down the path towards an authoritarian, target-driven, intrusive state. His administration dreamed up the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 handing draconian powers of surveillance to every goon and jobsworth in the land. He was the guy who undermined parliament and took the country to war on false pretences. Oh, and he was also the PM whose administration insisted on keeping forever on file the DNA records not just of criminals but anyone who's ever been arrested.All of this was brought to mind this week with the publication of Database State, an amazing report by IT security experts commissioned by the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust in the aftermath of the loss, by HM Revenue &amp; Customs, of the entire child benefit database in October 2007. Spurred by the HMRC fiasco, and all the subsequent data losses that came to light in the months that followed, the trust sponsored a meeting of academics and activists with an interest in privacy. These experts attempted to map Britain's database state, identifying the many public sector databases that collect personal information about us.Not surprisingly, the task proved to be too big for one seminar, so the trust commissioned the Foundation for Information Policy Research (FIPR) to conduct the most comprehensive survey ever of Britain's government databases. The report was published last week (it's available online at www.fipr.org) and makes sobering reading for anyone who cares what's happened to this country since Blair &amp; Co swept to power in 1997.Of the 46 databases assessed, only six are found to have "a proper legal basis for any privacy intrusions and are proportionate and necessary in a democratic society". Eleven are "almost certainly illegal under human rights or data protection law" and "should be scrapped or substantially redesigned", while the remaining 29 were found to "have significant problems and should be subject to an independent review".The creation and updating of these databases is central to the Blair/Brown "transformational government" programme, for which the government is currently unable to attach an estimated cost. But the UK public sector currently spends &pound;16bn a year on IT projects and had - at least until the credit crunch - planned to spend &pound;100bn on databases and related stuff over the next five years.Even these days, these are huge sums, which reflect the New Labour belief that IT systems will one day give the government the information it needs to control every aspect of our lives, defeat terrorism and eliminate crime. Much of the proposed expenditure is devoted to enabling colossal official databases to talk to one another.The goal is that one day the government will have a seamless cradle-to-grave electronic record of every aspect of a citizen's life. It will track school and medical records, every phone number dialled, every email and text message sent and received, every website visited, every speeding fine and passport issued, every vehicle registered, every mortgage or loan taken out, every foreign trip undertaken, every tax return filed and benefit claimed. And, of course, every encounter with officialdom. It's an Orwellian nightmare rationalised by the need for efficiency in the spending of public money but designed to change forever the relationship between the individual and the state.The FIPR/Rowntree survey has uncovered the extent to which the UK government is already operating outside the law. That would once have been enough to call a halt to New Labour's Orwellian project. But those days have gone. The only thing that will stop Britain's descent into the National Surveillance State is a change of government. Fortunately, looking at the opinion polls, we might not have too long to wait.
Comic geniusMatt Berry's new album is free to downloadThe definition of cute- according to DisneyLonely Islandain't nothing newBooze and swimmingdon't mixSome sequelsare better than the originalsThe short, poignant historyof bats in spaceTurn your lights offat 8.30pm tonight. If you don't, you luuurve global warmingBreakfast cerealmakes your brain meltHow to spyon the Royal Mail
Jefferson Island is cut off from the outside world and turned into a city-sized gameshow of death, where innovative slaying is rewarded with big points. What ensues is wholly intuitive cartoon carnage using the Wii remote and nunchuk to punch, hurl and eviscerate enemies using fists, chainsaw or handy pieces of scenery for additionally gory effect. Fights are physical, as the game's enormous cartoon musclemen get pounded and impaled into oblivion, via swings and jerks of the controllers. Gleefully, outrageously blood-soaked; along with the recent House Of The Dead: Overkill, Sega clearly thinks there's a market of Wii-owning kidults who've had it with lifestyle software and games featuring woodland animals. In a game where the first "Bloodbath Challenge" involves tossing hapless assailants into a jet engine, with kills cheerfully ratcheted up, you know what you're getting.• Sega, &pound;39.99
This weekend marks the 30th anniversary of the first release on Jerry Dammers's influential British ska label - Gangsters by the Specials - with a party in the label's birthplace of Coventry and the unveiling of 2-Tone plaques across the city. With the Specials reformed - sadly and controversially minus Dammers - and about to tour for a second wave of 2-Tone fever, now's the perfect time for a little moonstomp history. A labour of love, there's commentary on every release on the label from the hits (by Madness, the Selecter and the Beat) to the forgotten 45s of the Higsons and the Apollinaires. Elsewhere, there's a detailed history of the label's black and white icon Walt Jabsco, music press cuttings, videos and interviews with Roddy Radiation and Ghost Town producer John Collins.
80s ActualVHS memories of the decade you could rerecord, not fade away.80s Casual ClassicsPossibly the only place on Earth where Chris Waddle is revered as a style icon.80s Music VidsFrom A Flock Of Seagulls to ZZ Top, welcome to 1980s pop nirvana.Beckindale BugleAmos in his bushy prime, plus why were Roxy Music always on the radio in the soaps?Fast RewindTrivia, clips and locations of 571 1980s movie classics.FershurAngry scenes outside Toys R Us as Cabbage Patch Dolls sell out.Vintage Boombox MuseumThe boombox database, with ghetto blasters as seen in the movies.
In spite of the stereotyping of the British as posh, bowler hat-wearing idiots you can't help but love Henry Hatsworth, whose Puzzling Adventure is easily the quirkiest thing ever released by Electronic Arts, more commonly associated with the endless Need For Speed and Fifa "soccer" sausage machines. The wonderfully inventive mixture of platform and puzzle game sees Henry hopping merrily about on the top screen, while the bottom one takes care of a Zookeeper-style, block-matching puzzle. The real joy is in the artful integration of the two playing styles, as monsters you kill pop up in the puzzle screen, along with any power-ups you collect, intertwining the game's elements with supreme elegance. Underneath the charming exterior, the ongoing fight with Hatsworth's snooty arch nemesis, Leopold Charles Anthony Weasleby The Third, presents an increasingly ruthless challenge that should not be underestimated.• Electronic Arts, &pound;19.99
The mention of the name "C5" in a vehicular context is unlikely to prompt thoughts of sumptuous ease in anyone who is over 35. Instead, the image that will almost certainly spring to mind is of the Sinclair C5, the 80s electric tricycle that became a comic byword for bad design.Rest assured, that C5 did not have a back massager, though anyone foolhardy enough to squeeze into one could have done with a little muscular manipulation.The Citro&euml;n C5, by contrast, does have a back massager, as well as heated seats. I didn't realise this on my first drive. Running late to meet a friend, I didn't at first take much notice of the pleasurable warmth around my bottom. Nor did I immediately appreciate the undulating sensation in the small of my back. But gradually I became aware of the rhythmic movement, as it crept up on me like G&oacute;recki's Third Symphony or a furtive masseuse. After a while I began to wonder what that dull pressure was on my spine and why my bum was so hot.Was this it? Was I finally experiencing the nervous breakdown I've spent years working towards? If so, then it was not unpleasant. Indeed, if you were thinking of having a nervous breakdown, I'd recommend the C5 as an ideal venue to ameliorate the harsher physical manifestations of personal crisis.In fact, once you get used to the slightly odd automatic gear stick, I'd wager that it would be a stiff challenge to crack up in this C5. OK, you've made a mess of your private life, but just feel that smooth leather. Your career is going nowhere. Too bad, but check out the leg room. No one likes you - know that feeling, still, that pneumatic suspension is a joy to behold.While Francophiles have plenty to choose from among hatchbacks and smaller cars, it's been a while since Citro&euml;n produced a classy larger model of any repute. And you'd have to go back all the way to the DS, with its distinctive, long bonnet, to a time when Citro&euml;n led the field.The C5 is a self-conscious attempt to loosen the forearm nelson in which the German motor industry has the higher-end saloon market so effectively locked. Citro&euml;n even boasts of its "Teutonic-like levels of quality", which amounts to a public acknowledgment of what the public already believes - that the Germans do it better.But in this case the French have produced something that in comfort, if perhaps not performance, rivals an Audi or BMW. While it may not possess the iconic appeal of the DS, the C5 is undoubtedly handsome. If that doesn't massage the ego, then just feel what it can do for your back.Citroën C5 2.7 HDI V6Price£24,395Top speed139mphAcceleration0-62 in 9.6 secondsAverage consumption33.6mpgCO2 emissions223g/kmEco rating5/10At the wheelSebastian FaulksBound forThe DordogneIn a wordTeutonique
The latest iteration of Nintendo's dual screen handheld is the DSi. Compared with the DS Lite, it's 12% thinner and has 8% bigger screens, although you might not notice. What you'll definitely detect is that it's less toy-like and flimsy, and no longer looks puny next to an iPod. New features include two 0.3 mega-pixel cameras whose pictures you can augment with built-in special effects; a web browser and, most important, the DSi shop, where you'll be able to download games to an SD card - sold separately. While it plays DS games, the old GameBoy Advance cartridge slot has gone and Nintendo has said that DSi software will be region locked, so forget about buying any new DSi games when you're on holiday.• Nintendo, &pound;149.99
Tim Lovejoy is the half-man half-V neck jumper who invented the modern bloke, Simon Fuller is the evil svengali who managed the Spice Girls and created Pop Idol, among other sins. Together they are the brains behind the future of the internet. Well, sort of. What they've actually done is to create a men's online TV station where every programme is presented by a V neck jumper (sorry, presented by Tim Lovejoy) along with some of his old mates from Soccer AM. It's so blokey that when they review a film they can only talk about half of it because they were in the pub and missed the start. In addition, there are interviews, beery banter, football previews, mildly amusing jokes and some live music from the Pigeon Detectives.
Here's a typical drive-by scene, taken from Twitter. It's Matt Cutts of Google, whorecently complained: "Stayed up till 1am to clear out email inbox and woke up to 77 more this morning? #@$%#@$. May ignore inbox and catch up with team today."Hang around long enough on any similar service, or browse a few blogs, and you'll find people all having the same reaction. They're in search of the mythical "inbox zero" – which seems to be rather like going in search of the end of the rainbow: just when you think you're getting nearer to it, the damn thing moves away again. Email falls like the rain on the plain in Spain. Or Manchester.And if you hang around long enough on Twitter, you'll also see people wondering aloud "Why can't emails be more like Twitter? If they were a maximum of 140 characters, that would be great" or "I've discovered I can do some of the things via Twitter that I'd otherwise have to do on work email! Fantastic!" In the latter case, it's a good bet that the "things" being done are principally telling colleagues what you're up to. (Indeed Yammer, a sort of corporate wannabe Twitter, doesn't ask "What are you doing?" as Twitter does, but "What are you working on?" From this people can get up to speed on what's going on inside the organisation.)But that's not unique to Twitter. Hang around anywhere, mention "email" and you won't find people who say "Oh, I love email!" Nope, ask around when you next meet some people and find out what they think about email. Then ask them about Facebook, or Twitter, or instant messaging, or blogging, or navigating Google Street View. They may not all love them, but it's a safe bet that they'll like all of those a lot more than they do email.Why is that? It's pretty simple, really, once you realise it. And when you do, you understand why email is irredeemably broken. Broken beyond almost all recourse.Here's why. With all those other applications, you get to choose what appears. Twitter? You get to choose who you follow. (Even, if you want, who gets to follow you.) On Facebook, you choose who is your friend, and how much of your profile they can see; you choose when you update stuff; whether you join groups; what emails you get.Instant messaging? You choose conversations, pick what your status is. Blogging? If you've nothing to write, you don't write. (And any sensible blog lets you either moderate comments first or delete them afterwards.)Street View? You can choose where you go. All that limits you is whether the Google car has been there yet.But email? Email comes unbidden. Even when you discount spam – which is pretty hard to do, though the protection against it has improved enormously over the years – you still have the fact that there are the daft round-robins, the messages you've been cc'd into just so someone can later say "But didn't you read X? I copied you in!", the messages you receive and think "That's pretty important but it's not urgent" which then get trampled by something that's urgent, even if not important...What it amounts to is loss of control. We can't control our inboxes because they don't belong to us. Which is what is so frustrating about email. It feels as though our email address, and hence inbox, should be something over which we have dominion. That is whatInbox Zerois trying to pretend: that a clean inbox is a healthy inbox. You say you press "delete" a lot? Tell me, how much time do you spend doing that on IM or Twitter?But the reality is that as soon as enough people know your email address, it will go viral, and it's lost to you forever. The problem, the eternal problem, with email is that it costs nothing to send, but costs you in attention: is that sender relevant? Is that subject line relevant? What's in this email?Of course, it doesn't help that the technology to build up mailing lists has exploded with email. When a mailing list used to be applied to physical letters, companies worked hard to make a really good one, because wasted mailings meant wasted money. Now, they don't: the waste is all transferred to the receiver's end, in the form of their time.(One general lesson about the internet: it pushes costs from what used to be the centre to the edge. Downloading a PDF rather than buying a paper version? If you print any part out, that's the printing cost – paper plus printer – shifted to you.)The proliferation of badly-curated mailing lists is making the email problem worse; and some of those put in charge of those lists clearly underestimate how annoying the effects can be. Earlier this afternoon I got an email aboutbrushes. Not the electric motor variety – no breakthroughs there – but the painting sort. And no, there wasn't any nanotechnology or similar involved. The person who'd sent it explained (because my email requesting he remove my address from his files, because he clearly couldn't be trusted to use it sensibly, bounced as being "blacklisted" – a fabulous addition of insult to injury) that he must have got a couple of lists mixed up.I know: you're saying I should just roll with it. You're a journalist! You should like getting email! But this is a problem that goes far beyond it. Unless you operate a strict whitelisting system, where you only let particular people email you, the problem of the unread, uncontrolled inbox will always be with you. It will suck up your attention, demand you either kill it or curate it or, ultimately, ignore it.This essential flaw at the heart of email – that you can't control it, because despite appearances it isn't yours – is the reason why you'll never get satisfaction from it. When there's no new messages, you start to fret that either the mail server is broken, or that you've been frozen out of something, or that nobody's doing any damn work. When there are too many messages, it gets in the way of doing the work.Email is, let's just accept it, broken in concept and in practice. And that is why people have embraced Twitter so wholeheartedly. It lets them talk only to the people they want to, and to swap information as they like. You can even create  secret networks within it – just set up a group of people with protected updates who only follow each other. Try doing that with email; no matter how hard you try, eventually the address will go public. Hell, even Steve Jobs's and Bill Gates's addresses have leaked out; Gates used to get thousands of spams every day.No. Forget Inbox Zero. Email is broken. We can't fix it because the idea is broken. It has its uses, for long messages that you want to receive from people. But in an attention economy where time is precious, it doesn't stand up.After all, the real test of a technology is: if it didn't exist, would you invent it now? I think if we had everything but email, we wouldn't. We'd use instant messaging or other file-transfer methods for long chunks of information, and websites for "broadcasting" stuff.Email? It's just, like, sooooo 20th century.
At Thursday afternoon's Game Developers Conference in San Francisco,Keita Takahashi, creator of the international sleeper hitKatamari Damacy, offered a post mortem on his latest release, the equally quirkyNoby Noby Boy. He also critcised the development community for being so slavishly tied to the bottom line that they're stuck creating the same old games.The engaging Takahashi explained that his first game was an attempt to make an ironic point about the consumption society. He was inspired by the prevalence of mobile gaming technology in Japan and concerned that kid weren't playing, but consuming. "I see people playing games on the subway and even with their parents present, they won't talk to them, they'll keep playing the game. This made me think that maybe it's not so good if a game really sells."He was equally disturbed that they weren't called "players", but "users".  "I always through there was something wrong with this," he commented. "Games are meant to be played, so why do we say players are users? Aren't we supposed to play games?"He was ultimately disappointed with Katamari Damacy because the game demanded an outcome: consuming the objects in each level. In response, he created a new game with fewer stages and fewer objects, fewer "goals and rules or carrots and sticks".Noby Noby Boy is in fact more of an interactive plaything than a game. A translation of the name from Japanese is 'dilly dallying,' and indeed there are no real rules, no objectives - except an impossible mission that, at present calculation, will take 820 years to complete - and no apparent cause and effect. For this reason, upon its release on the PlayStation Network, the game did not sell well. "People high up [in publisher Namco/Bandai] glare at me," he smiled. "They were really angry."Takahashi's well-reported struggle with corporate culture was clear in his talk, and encouraged the game designers in the room, "to create a game that we like, rather than thinking about what will sell, and what's popular, looking to the outside to develop a standard. Games aren't created by the management."Doing his corporate duty, however, he announced new features and prototypes for Noby Noby Boy: a multiplayer mode in which up to four players can play the front and the rear ends of the same character is available to players today, and an iPhone application is in very early development. He hopes the iPhone app will feedback into the PlayStation network game and help the characters achieve their (impossible) goals in less time. Maybe in 400 rather than 800 years.In a development post-mortem, Takahashi described the things he had hoped to do with Noby Noby Boy: he had intended to include tokens of gratitude to players who had bought the game, hand-made trinkets he would deliver to players himself. This didn't happen. He had hoped players could customise their in-world Boys. This didn't happen. He wanted players to be producers by integrating new media channels like YouTube, allowing them to report, review and request. This didn't happen. He wanted to achieve something new, to create another choice in videogames, something surprising. This may have happened.What certainly came out of this talk was his disappointment as a game designer. "There is a great potential in games. If we love videogames, we need to think about this much more," he said. "We have to feel and observe more."By focussing on completion rather than development, Takahashi argues that designers have lost something: "We still believe there is a certain way for how games to be. Perhaps we're hiding behind the rules of games and past experiences, what came before us.""We have to rely on the hardware, but hardware and game consoles are just there to play the games. Human beings create the games. We should be more free and not be constrained. That," he offered, "will create something fantastic, or fantastically awful. It still has value.""Don't fear failure. By creating a failure, something that has never existed before will be born. That is our mission: to create something new is the mission that we game developers have."
During Thursday morning's keynote speech at the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco,Hideo Kojima, one of the most celebrated game designers of the past three decades, offered an insightful look at the impossible game design challenges he and his team have overcome in the making of the acclaimed Metal Gear series. Kojima, who received last night's Lifetime Achievement Award at the Game Choice Awards, gave the packed ballroom a first-hand retrospective tour of the four games he has been responsible for in the series, describing the design decisions he and his teams have used to overcome the seemingly impossible technological shortcomings, developer and consumer expectations and software hurdles that have arisen over Solid Snake's 20 year history."Impossible is anything you've not done before or not experienced," he said. "It's merely an assumption, it's all in your mind." Using the example of his first game design challenge - to create a combat game that cashed in on the Rambo: First Blood phenomenon of the mid-1990s on an early home console that could only generate 2D games and which dropped any more than eight items on a horizontal row - he encouraged the current crop of designers to discard their stereotypes and change their visions to overcome their own technological obstacles.The Metal Gear games were borne out of hardware limitations, the extremes of which have led to his personal development philosophy: designer-driven game design. In this approach, popular in Japan, the hardware technology constrains the big ideas, and the designers provide game rules to get around it. "But the current trend is a little different," he said to the audience, many of whom were in diapers when his first game was released in 1985."The modern trend is reliant on the software technology, and designers are challenging the obstacles from a different point of view: software-based game design." Designers now use game engines to boost the power of console technology, to bend the machines to do their will. This method, he argued, is particularly common in North American and European studios, resulting in the vastly popular, huge, interactive worlds where players can drive any vehicle in a game, or destroy anything within it.Kojima fears he and his older designer-driven counterparts are being dismissed by specialists in software technology and eclipsed by this new paradigm. He would like to bring the modern, Western approach and the traditional Eastern approach together in game making; with hardware and software advancements, plus game design to overcome barriers of impossibilities, he hopes to create "the next, ultimate Metal Gear Solid game.""Before giving up and saying, 'I can't do it,' identify the impossible barrier that is holding you back. It's only what you're thinking," he concluded. "By overcoming the barriers of impossibilities become today's possibilities. Mankind went to the moon. Nothing is really impossible."
In November 2008 a total of 40 articles appeared in British local and national newspapers that included the word "Twitter". Though a quarter of them were published by the Guardian, this paper's technology correspondent nonetheless found himselfexplainingto general readers that "Twitter, a mobile social network, has generated lots of buzz". TheDaily Telegraph, quaintly, was still using the word to describe a way of talking.The following month, 85 articles appeared on the subject. By January 2009, it was 206. But those were still the dark ages. Hot on the heels of theTwitter plane crashcame the site's first live action celebrity lift catastrophe, when the actorStephen Fry, a tweeter so prolific that one hopes he still eats, offered breathless updates from the stationary elevator in which he briefly found himself marooned. (His followers total is now 350,000).Before long the mainstream media had spotted that countless celebrities were taking time and effort on Twitter to reveal themselves every bit as witless as their PRs took time and effort to conceal. Jennifer Anistondumped her boyfriendover his Twitter habit. Ashton Kucherposted a pictureof Demi Moore's bum. Madonnaannouncedon Twitter she was no longer dating a man called Jesus who was young enough to be her son. (Though signs are now emergingthat even this is too arduous for the celebrities themselves to undertake without assistance.)But it was, perhaps, the Guardian'srevelationthis week of government plans to teach young children about new media tools, including Twitter and Wikipedia, that tipped the site into the mainstream consciousness. "Over the centuries, mankind has developed thousands of ways to communicate eternal truths," the shadow education minister Michael Gove wrote in theDaily Mail. "The complex interplay of voice and orchestra in classical opera gave full rein to Mozart's genius. The delicate rhyme scheme of the 14-line sonnet, in Shakespeare's hands, produced some of the most sublime poetry ever written ... [But] instead of teaching our children the glories of the past, or introducing them to the best that has been thought and written, ministers want our children to 'Twitter'."Gove, who helpfully described the service as "a new form of texting", appears not to have noticed that theDaily Mail itselfis now an enthusiastic Twitterer, using the site to offer an automatic running feed of headlines and links. "Attorney General orders unprecedented Met police probe into Guantánamo prisoner's allegations of torture against," it offered today - those 140 characters are a challenge. TheConservative partyis also, as it happens, sending its 4,600 followers a link to Gove's article this morning, in case any of them need a Twitter reminder of what Twitter is.In an act to rival in tastefulness theUS paperwhich offered minute-by-minute updates of a three-year-old's funeral, Sky Newsrecently Tweetedfrom inside the court in which Josef Fritzl was being tried for murder, rape and incest:9:29 juliareid21:  [Austrian TV] now have a shot of the back of his head - thinning white grey hair but he won't speak9:29 juliareid21:  huge moment for ORF reporter. Watch this live on Sky9:31 juliareid21:  Interviewed LIVE in a courtroom before a trial! Imagine!The network has also appointed aTwitter correspondent, a position one hopes will last longer than Reuters'sdedicated bureauin Second Life.So is the Daily Mail's Twitter feed the equivalent of your dad dancing in public to your favourite nu-acid-crunk band? Does a government decision to "teach Twitter" represent the site's ultimateshark-jumpinto banal unfashionability?"All new technologies hit this point," says Mike Butcher, editor of the new media blog Tech Crunch Europe, who has been using Twitter for almost three years. "You always have these old crusties who have been on it for a while, and then a generation of 'newbies' turn up as if it's something they have just invented." The scale of theexponential boomin Twitter's popularity, however, is "really unusual", he says. Far from killing off the site's popularity among early adopters, he argues that "the power of any network grows exponentially as the number of people using it grows." A world in which many more people are tweeting, and those tweets are fully searchable, would potentially allow a real-time search facility of "the consciousness of the planet".In the meantime, though, we will have to be satisfied with the knowledge thatAndy Murrayis having steak for his tea,North Lincolnshire councilhas been presented with Member Development Charter status, and one of Jonathan Ross's dogsthrew uplast night.Meanwhile, so far in March, 684 articles have been published about Twitter. Truly it is, as the Bristol Evening Post put it in a helpful explanatory note to readers, "this year's Facebook".
The House of Commons internal computer network has been infected by the "Conficker" worm that has also infected millions of Windows PCs around the world, and has had to ban its users from attaching outside storage - such as USB "memory sticks" - in case it gets reinfected.The revelation is an embarrassment for the organisation running the network, which contains nearly 1,000 computers, because Microsoft issued a fix for the weakness that leaves PCs vulnerable in October - meaning that they have been lax in applying necessary security fixes. MessageLabs, owned by Symantec, is understood to be responsible for the antivirus and antispam filtering of communications with the network.A memo sent out in the House of Commons network on Tuesday night warned that "the Parliamentary network has been affected by a virus known as conficker. This virus affects users by slowing down the Network and by locking out some accounts." It instructs users to leave computers turned on - so that they can have the malware removed - and that unauthorised computers be removed from the network.Memory sticks, which can be used to transfer the worm accidentally between computer networks, have also been banned while the system is cleansed.None of MessageLabs, the Parliamentary Information Communications and Technology helpdesk or a spokeswoman nominated by PICT had  responded to requests for comment when this story was filed.Security experts are meanwhile trying to work out whether the Conficker worm, which has infected roughly 10m Windows PCs around the world, will devastate the internet on 1 April, when it is due to seek out an update to its controlling software from the unknown group that wrote the original infecting code.Antivirus companies have managed to decode enough of the code of the program - also known as "downadup" - to realise that from next Wednesday it will start to check 50,000 randomly-named domains which might be registered in any one 110 different countries, seeking one site that will have been set up to issue it with new instructions.That marks a step up from earlier versions of the worm, which used to check 250 sites per day - but which was defeated because in an unprecedented effort, a multinational industry security team managed to block all of the potential domains, including a number in China.The fears are that the update might instruct the infected machines to start an all-out attack on major sites such as Google, Yahoo or Amazon - all of which have been targets of "denial of service" attacks by large groups of infected computers, known as "botnets", in the past.But it is more likely that the computers will simply get updated orders to carry on sending out spam emails, or hosting "phishing" sites - which look like official bank or credit card sites but are fake, and collect information to send to the botnet's owner.The worm seems to have been developed by Chinese hackers, but its purpose is not clear. It has spread to millions of PCs, often in corporate organisations, by exploiting a flaw in older versions of Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser.In February,Microsoft put a $250,000 bounty on the head of the writer, or writers, of Conficker: "The Conficker worm is a criminal attack. People who write this malware have to be held accountable," said George Stathakopoulos, of Microsoft's Trustworthy Computing Group."We don't know who's behind this worm, but they seem to be pretty professional in what they do," noted F-Secure, one of the antivirus companies that was first to spot the worm. The worm uses a cryptographic system called theMD6 hash algorithm, which encodes its content using a secure new system that has proven impossible for antivirus teams to break.But others think it will be less dramatic. "What happens on April Fool's day is anyone's guess," noted Vinoo Thomas of McAfee. "But what have we learnt from history? From the days of [the] Michelangelo [virus, in 1992] to the recent Blaster, SoBig, Sober and Kamasutra worms, the hype surrounding the activation or payload dates of major Internet worms have only turned out to be damn squibs."Rick Wesson, of the industry team that has built up around efforts to defeat Conficker, thinks that its legacy may turn out to be positive: because it has forced different countries to work together, it has created the first forms of a worldwide cyber security system. "No matter what happens with Conficker, it's created something here....a beautiful opportunity to bring cyber security to the kitchen table," hetold the Washington Post.
It's out on November 10 and it won't have Call of Duty in the title. Apart from that, Modern Warfare 2 remains a delicious mystery. The teaser trailer released earlier this week on the game'sofficial siteis an intriguing interactive toy, designed to resemble a high-tech piece of audio visual analysis technology - the sort of thing you'd find in a Hollywood espionage thriller. You can stop the footage, zoom in and repeat - and hopefully glimpse something that'll provide more info than the basic footage. Naturally, Infinity Ward want the community to spend hours on this thing, swapping theories on Facebook and Twitter. At the moment, the action would seem to revolve around a (Russian?) terrorist attack on some kind of station or airport, but you may have found more...So what do we want to see from the sequel? Personally, I'd like a more cogent and impactful story. I don't care about the BAFTA award, I've completed the game twice and I'm still not entirely sure I understood (much less cared about) the fusion of Eastern European miscreants with Middle Eastern terrorist activity. This time round, we need something with more meat, and a much tidier set-up. Oh and[Modern Warfare Spoiler Alert!]Captain Price must live - and return. Obviously.How about you?
When Josh Nesbit first visited St Gabriel's hospital in the town of Namitete, Malawi, he was shocked by what he saw.The 22-year-old was prepared for a lack of resources – his parents work in medical charities – and knew that the hospital ran on a skeleton staff: just two doctors and a handful of other clinic workers.But he wasn't ready for the realisation of how difficult it was for those health workers to connect with their patients. With a catchment covering 250,000 people over hundreds of square miles, St Gabriel's has to rely on a network of 450 volunteers across 700 villages, who keep tabs on the population and report back to the hospital. But since even the volunteers had difficulties in communicating their findings, that was not a real solution."I basically realised that they were just as disconnected from the hospital and its resources as the patients were," says Nesbit. "They were literally walking 60, 80, 100 miles just to be in contact with hospital staff."Faced with this apparent impasse, Nesbit, an undergraduate at Stanford University in California – the birthplace of Silicon Valley powerhouses such as Hewlett-Packard, Cisco and Google – decided to try applying a simple technology, the text message, to see what benefits could be reaped.Teaming up with Ken Banks, the founder ofCambridge-based FrontlineSMS– free text message software aimed at charities and NGOs – Nesbit and his friends came up with a system that would allow mobile technology to bridge the gap.The result,FrontlineSMS:Medic, is relatively straightforward and, apparently, effective.Community health workers, most of whom had never seen a mobile phone, let alone owned one, were trained to send text messages containing medical information back to the hospital staff.If health workers sent a drug name in a text, the system would automatically respond with information on dosages and usage. Health workers can also give status updates on particular patients or make a call for further medical information to help them treat cases on the go. It is particularly important in a country where HIV and Aids are rife – with infection rates as high as 70% in some areas."If you ask the community health workers why they are doing their work, it's because friends and family were literally dropping dead around them and they wanted to do what they could to help," says Nesbit. "Basically they had all of the ethos, but didn't have the connection to the real resources at the hospital."The pilot project, which has been running for five months, has already had a significant impact: as well as getting emergency medical attention for 130 people who would have otherwise gone unseen, it has allowed the hospital's tuberculosis officer to treat twice as many people because his time can now be more used more efficiently.The system, which costs around $500 (£349) to operate, has also had a financial benefit, which is particularly important in a place where resources are severely strained. Two members of staff estimate that they will each save around $5,000 a year in fuel costs alone."Instead of reinventing the wheel and trying to dominate a market for profit, we're partnering with other open-source, grassroots-driven technology groups," says Lucky Gunasekara, a graduate student at Stanford Medical School who joined Nesbit to push the scheme forward."When people hear our proposal they think it's going to cost millions of dollars. Compared with programs that cost millions of dollars … we're looking, for this program, at one-10th the cost."The team themselves plan to closely monitor the scheme, starting with a 500,000 patient study in Bangladesh which will be conducted next year in cooperation with development charity Brac, Stanford Medical School, Independent University, Bangladesh, and other partners.The project has already attracted interest from a number of prominent individuals. Nathan Wolfe, a leading virologist and epidemiologist based at UCLA, has started discussing the prospect of using the system to track the emergence of epidemics."Obviously St Gabriel's is not the only hospital dealing with a rural catchment area and a community health network," says Nesbit. "So we're basically working to roll out the current build at 30 sites in 20 countries over the next six months."That includes plans for Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. Nesbit will now go to Uganda to set up two new networks covering 800,000 people as part of a deal brokered by Dr Elioda Tumweisgwe, chairman of the Ugandan parliament's HIV committee.Gunasekara, meanwhile, has received support from Bill Clinton's Clinton Global Initiative to develop a low-cost HIV test that he hopes to incorporate into the text message system.The team also hopes to develop the software further through help from the open source community."The dream within two years is that you can be on a website, you can download our software, you can apply to get our hardware and you decide what to do with it," says Gunasekara."You the patient, you the health worker, you the clinician, who's on the front lines fighting this battle, you decide how it's used. That's a really exciting proposition."
Picture the scene: you have parked your vehicle in a multi-storey car park ready to go shopping, but as you head down the stairs you are hit not by the usual pungent whiff of urine, but the delectable scent of baking bread or cut flowers. This is the latest wheeze by NCP, the UK's largest car parking company, which hastoday announced its intentionto "snuff out" smelly stairwells for good.The move, it claims, has been prompted by an online poll of 2,000 people last month that revealed that as many as a third of car park customers are unlikely to use a car park again if it smells particularly bad. How many local car parks do these people have to choose from?Not surprisingly, two-thirds of those surveyed said stairwells were the worst-smelling areas of a car park – a third identifying the unpleasantness as the smell of urine.NCP clearly feels it is a nationwide problem and is going to be using "new technology" to pump pleasant fragrances into its London, Birmingham, Leeds and Cardiff car parks. But before it does it is asking you, the public, to vote on your favourite fragrance via its online poll atwww.ncp.co.uk/stairwellsmells.Its initial research has revealed that the nation's favourite aromatic smells are classic – flowers (17%), mint (13%), cut grass (11%), freshly baked bread (11%) and fresh fruit (8%). Londoners, in contrast, are a bit odd: one-third  favour disinfectant. What does this say about inhabitants of the capital?A quick straw poll of the Guardian and the Observer's consumer affairs team revealed favourite smells to be: dying lilies, cut grass, brand new children's books, new plimsolls, inside new cars, babies (heads not bums), lemon and grapefruit, toast, vanilla and coconut, sweaty pony's neck, boiling apples with cinnamon, eucalyptus, tarmac, freshly printed bank notes, and "the smell of success". The production editor muttered darkly about "napalm in the morning".NCP has, however, gone a bit scientific and put a psychologist on the case. Prof Tim Jacobs, an expert in the psychology of smell at Cardiff University, says: "It has been reported that citrus fragrances have an antidepressant effect," (always useful in a recession) while "rosemary and peppermint have been shown to increase alertness while driving". NCP might also be pleased to know that urine was not mentioned in our subsequent worst smells poll. Instead, "my children's bedroom in the morning", kippers, feet, decaying flesh, and London underground trains in the rush hour were mentioned.So, what would you like to get a whiff of after you've parked your car and are heading down the stairs? And where else do you think could do with a hit from NCP's "new technology"? Someone in the office mentioned the stairwell at Oxford street's John Lewis. Perhaps you know of somewhere equally pungent?
Amazon chief Jeff Bezos has been finding out first-hand what it's like to work in one of the online retailer's giant distribution centres, by spending a week on the shopfloor.The lucky warehouse - or as Amazon calls it "fulfillment center" [sic] - is on Mercer Road in Lexington, Kentucky - about 2,470 miles from Amazon's headquarters in Seattle. (It's OK, it wouldonly take a day and a half to drive, thinks Google.)Google Nostalgia - sorry, Street View -suggests it's sunny. And large. And flat. And quite a distance from anywhere else.Amazon declinedrequests from the local paperfor an interview: "Unfortunately, I'm not going to be able to arrange any interviews or photos this week while he is in Lexington," said a spokeswoman. "He is there to work."And you know what Amazon is like about work in its warehouses. Back in April 2001, the Guardian noted that the retailer had beenaccused of running "the worst of old economy working practices" by staff in the UK. They said "pickers" were forced to select three items per minute from shelves, and "packers" to parcel on average 5 orders every two minutes, on 11-hour shifts from 7.30pm to 6.30am which included an unpaid one-hour meal break at 1am - in a place with no canteen.Amazon denied allegations, and said that pay rates were comparable with other firms in the area.But the issue surfaced again last Christmas, when theSunday Times reportedthat staff at the same location - Marston Gate near Milton Keynes - were required to work seven days a week and "punished" for being ill (where staff with a sick note received a "penalty" point; six points meant dismissal). The quotas for packing - 140 items an hour, which is only slightly below the 5 items per two minutes of 2001. Collecting items for packing can mean walking up to 14 miles during a shift.The break periods seem shorter too: one of 15 minutes and another of 20 minutes in an eight-hour shift. Amazon paid £6.30 per hour, 57p more than the minimum wage, but charged £8.50 for transport unless staff could arrange their own. They were also warned that there were surveillance cameras watching them at all times.Amazon EU replied at length (the full text is in the Sunday Times piece), noting that "our number one focus is our customers and everyone at Amazon works hard on their behalf" and that "the interests of all workers are represented by a democratically elected employyee forum who meets regularly with senior management" and that it was consulted about the reduced length of the breaks in the eight-hour shift "to cut the total working day by half an hour."Bezos, a former investment banker, is there to labour among the hourly-paid employees to find out what life at the loading bay door is like. We wonder whether he took the same hourly pay while he was there. And also whether he would like to try again at Christmas, when things will be *properly* busy.In fact, perhaps he could come over to Marston Gate this Christmas. We look forward to watching the surveillance videos.
I have a 40GB portable hard drive that I use to store backups of my photos and music and also to transfer them between my PC and PlayStation 3. I would like to play the files directly off the HD when on the move. I don't want anything as large as a laptop, and was hoping to get something for under £75.Joe HindI suspect a netbook from Asus or Acer is the smallest and cheapest thing that might do the job, so you'd be better off spending £75 or so on a portable MP3 player with 8GB of storage. It's possible that a portable media player such as an Archos 605 Wi-Fi (£170-£180) would plug into your hard drive, but even if the USB connection worked, I'm not sure it would provide enough power for portable use. An Archos 605 stores 80GB, so you wouldn't need your portable hard drive anyway.
I am shocked and dismayed about this latest Google venture. Can you tell people how to get things removed?Linda MorganGo to Street View in Google Maps and look in the bottom left-hand corner of the image. Next to the copyright notice there's a link that says: "Report a problem". Click it and a page pops up with some prefigured objections, so you just have to select the ones that apply. Privacy Concerns covers faces, houses and cars. Typical entries include: "I have found a picture of my face (or of my child's) and would like it removed," and "I have found a picture of my house and would like it removed". You can also report Inappropriate Content: "I have found offensive content, such as nudity, in this image." It should be reasonably easy for Google to blur faces and number plates, but removing houses could be more of a problem. In some cases, Google removes the whole image.
What's your favourite piece of technology?I guess it has to be a tossup between iPhone, the Xbox 360 and my Macbook Pro – but I guess we'll settle on the Macbook.How has it improved your life?It's faster than the old one – it's not the super-new one, but the 2.4GHz model. It keeps my lap warm. Having immediate portable access to everything from work to the internet certainly has massive advantages. It's an amazingly big-end computer that I carry wherever I travel.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Moments ago for checking my email. The last interesting thing I did with it was record a second commentary track for the Splinter DVD, with the editor and cinematographer of the movie.What additional features would you add if you could?I guess more of everything, really – more storage and faster connectivity. If I could add 3G-type systems to you could use mobile phones to connect to the internet, that would be good, Out here [in LA] that's still quite hard.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years?Absolutely. I don't know what they're gonna change about it, but the speed and size and storage will be obsolete, that's for sure. Probably it will be a 3D holographic screen – we're talking Blade Runner in 10 years, right?What one tip would you give to nonMacbook Pro users?If they don't have oner, they probably don't need one.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Neither – I would say a technophile maybe?What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably a car – I had a Porsche Boxster for a while, which was pretty expensive. But I sold that when I gave up luxuries to direct movies instead.Mac or PC?Mac – just for ease of use and familiarity and legacy. I've been using them since 1985, I guess.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most-played list?I use an iPhone instead of an iPod, which doesn't have that feature. But if Id did it would be Any Other World, by Mika.Will robots rule the world?Not on my watch. But I think it's likely that Google will, at some point. If robots do take over the world, they will probably be controlled by Google.What piece of technology would you most like to own?In the real world, I would like to replace my Canon 5D camera with the Canon 5D Mark 2, which is an amazing stills camera that also manages to shoot HD video. Imaginary: probably the teleport. I think Amazon should invent it...• Splinter, directed byToby Wilkins, is released on DVD and Blu-ray on 30 March
Remember when Nintendo consoles came boxed in brightly coloured, mascot-laden packaging, that left you in no doubt that what you had just bought was basically a toy? Not any more. TheNintendo DSi- the update to the hugely popular DS Lite - comes encased in Apple-style clean packaging. It seems minimalism is just as important as Mario these days.  The DSi launches in Europe next week (3rd April) and I've been playing around with one for a few days now. Is it worth the 149.99 price tag?It depends on how long you can wait for the DSi's potential to be fulfilled. The Wii is only around 30UKP more and, for families especially, offers better value for money. And a DS Lite can be had for around 99 UKP.So what do you get for your extra 50UKP compared to the Lite?  A camera, beefed up processor, SD Card slot, slightly bigger screens and access to a new download store are the key additions. The DSi also looks a little slicker than the Lite.  Unfortunately the most interesting of these upgrades – the store – is not open until launch day so I haven't had a chance to dive in yet.  When launched the DSi shop will offer games and apps for download using a points system similar to the WiiWare shop on Wii.  Forget the store for now then – I'll post some thoughts of that after April 3rd – what about the other new features?The most obvious is the inclusion of the camera, with lenses inside and out.  The camera is low quality – around 0.3megapixels – but clearly isn't designed to replace your main snapper or phone. Instead it offers a fairly amusing way of photo-editing that kids will enjoy. More importantly the camera offers developers the opportunity to create something different. The recently announcedWarioWare: Snappedis a good example. Apps like Moving Memo – apparently a "digital flipbook" - will be key too, as Nintendo joins everyone else in trying toreplicate the successof the iTunes app store.Less obvious but perhaps more important to the future of the DSi is the increased processing power. The CPU speed has doubled and 256MB of flash memory – for photos, downloads etc - is included under the plastic bonnet. The proof, of course, will come when we finally get to compare a Lite and DSi version of the same game. This probably won't happen till 2010 but it will be interesting to see if the additional DSi features – ie camera usage – actually impact positively on the main game.What else? The inclusion of an SD Card slot brings some welcome flexibility although the sound quality when playing music (no MP3, AAC only) is adequate rather than outstanding. Like the camera you can muck around with different sound and vocal effects. But although amusing enough, like most of the DSi's features, this is still waiting to be fully exploited.  Elsewhere the screens are bigger, although the effect is only really noticeable when you go back to a DS Lite. Also the d-pad felt a little loose on the DSi I tried. But on the whole the DSi feels well made and looks good, although the cosmetic jump from Lite is relatively minor.Is it worth buying then? For early adopters – think hardcore Nintendo fans – then yes. The new features – especially the camera – offer enough to be getting on with. But the less committed, especially those who already own a Lite, would be better of waiting until the potential of the DSi starts to become more apparent.What do you think about the DSi then? Got one pre-ordered for launch day? Or happy with your Lite or PSP?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
As a games journalist for over a decade,Rhianna Pratchetthad the enviable opportunity to really explore the gamut of games in great depth. Now, as a game writer, she gets to create them. At this year's Game Developers Conference 2009, I caught up with Rhianna, one of the creative minds behind the most recent titles in the Broken Sword series, last year's parcour phenomenon Mirror's Edge and Overlord, to find out a bit more about her role, and why the games industry - whose products are generally better recognised for action rather than artistic prose - is knocking down her door.Check out the videohere.
Although the dominance of English on the internet means that translations are usually from English into other languages, the cultural exchange works both ways.There is increasing demand around the world for translations into English from other tongues – particularly inside businesses, according to Deepak Desai, the chief executive of language teaching serviceglobalenglish.com."Even customers that one wouldn't expect, like French customers, are adopting English for their internal communication," he says. "It's the lingua franca for them because that's the way the world is."In fact, the demand for translation into English could grow exponentially over the coming years, as Icann – the body that runs the internet's domain name system – pushes ahead with plans to liberalise the rules governing the way the net works.The move would allow domain names to be written in other alphabets, such as Cyrillic, Arabic or Chinese: carving out entire chunks of the internet that could effectively become invisible to English-speaking users without translation.The move has proven controversial in some quarters, with American officials writing to the organisation in December to question "whether the potential consumer benefits outweigh the potential costs".Desai believes, however, that such a move will not encourage a sudden jump away from English, thanks to the language's influence and power – and some technical limitations."English is the de facto language of business, there is no question about that," he says. "What's happening these days is that communication is happening in real-time and the time that it requires to use any of these devices – whether it's translation or anything like that – is just not rapid enough."Automated services, such as Google's translation engine, provide a wildly varying degree of accuracy and often struggle to help users understand what it is that they are reading.Elsewhere online, the best translations are often done collaboratively, as groups of people band together to bring information in English to audiences who don't speak the language.Andy Baio, the blogger and programmer who founded event website Upcoming.org, recently discovered a group of Chinese volunteerswho painstakingly translate the Economist each week.The 240-strong "Eco team" claim to have an understanding with staff on the magazine, which has previously been banned in China thanks to its commentary on the country's political life.
Could online language barriers be overcome using the same crowd-sourced approach that has made Wikipedia a success?&nbsp;That's the aim of theWorldwide Lexicon (WWL) project, which released a suite of new translation tools last month. Visitors to any blog or newspaper that uses the software will be able to click on to the site's text and enter a translation in the language of their choice, just as Wikipedia users can edit any entry in the encyclopaedia. The translated version will then be accessible to other visitors."Language is one of the few remaining barriers on the internet,"  wrote Brian McConnell, the San Francisco-based programmer behind the project, at the time."The web has rendered time and distance largely irrelevant, but much of it remains fragmented by language."English is the online lingua franca, yet it is the first language for only 6% of the world's population. And even though English dominates the internet, Chinese and Japanese content accounts for around a fifth. The Arab-speaking world, which arrived online a little later than Europe and the US, has also been one of the fasting-growing portions of the web in recent years.McConnell says that bilingual readers would be prepared to provide free translation services between these and other languages if they were passionate about the content involved. Speakers of around 15 different languages, including Spanish and Japanese, have already used an earlier version of McConnell's tools to translate posts fromBoing Boingand Make blogs.Fan sites might also find willing translators – some English football teams have large followings in Asia, for example.The success of Wikipedia shows that high-quality content can be created using volunteers, provided the subject matter attracts enough interest.But Mary Margaret O'Hara ofProZ, a website that freelance translators use to find work and collaborate on projects, says it would be difficult to control quality – particularly if a mistake were to  filter through several different translators.&nbsp;"This could eventually garble the message," says O'Hara. "There is no way a website owner could check if they don't speak the language. It's a great deal of trust to place in another person."McConnell says that website owners could configure the WWL system to guard against problems like that. Unofficial fan sites, such as those that track sports teams or videogames, might be happy to let anyone translate, but if quality control was a priority, content providers could restrict access to a few trusted, or paid, translators.Translations can also be rated by other users. Some sites might be happy to let anyone work on their content, but reserve publication of the translations until a high-rated user has checked it.Even with some degree of checking in place, the service could cause legal problems if a mistranslation were to end up producing a libelous statement. But the transparent nature of the WWL service should deal with that, says McConnell. Users can be banned and their IP addresses traced, just as sometimes occurs on Wikipedia. Site owners can also use disclaimers to make the legal status of the content clear.One site that is planning on using the tools in Meedan, a San Francisco-based social networking service that attempts to bring together Arabic and English speakers. The site, which is currently in the final stages of testing, is built around discussions of Arabic and English blog posts and news articles about the Middle East.&nbsp;Translations are done by machine and then edited by interested users. Ed Bice, the site's founder, says thatMeedanis building a Firefox plugin based on the WWL system. The plugin will allow users to translate an article and simultaneously upload it to Meedan. This should lead to more content on the site and higher quality translations, says Bice.McConnell hopes to make money by tailoring the system to the needs of publishers and says he is in discussion with a "major" business publication. He also wants other developers to build on the system. If a website owner wants all their content to be translated immediately, for example, they could use the WWL to link to machine translation services such as Google Translate. The machine-translated version could then be later improved by users.McConnell has already bolted automated systems for translating Twitter and RSS feeds on to the WWL framework. But many language pairs, such as Hindi-Urdu, are missing from the major automated services. If translation engines for those pairs became available they could easily be added to the WWL, says McConnell.
[Graphs from Inside Facebook.com]Most Facebook users are over 25, according tonew research from Inside Facebook, which adds the following intriguing stats:-In the last 60 days alone, the number of people over 35 has nearly doubled-The fastest growing demographic on Facebook is still women over 55-Over 4 million more US women 35-44 and nearly 3 million more US men 35-44 used Facebook in March 2009 compared to September 2008-The majority of US Facebook users are now over 25Possibly the most interesting chart (though there are lots to chew over; do see the original post) is the pie graph showing Facebook users by age:(Big, isn't it?)Which shows us that 18-25-year-olds make up a third of Facebook users on their own (hence the prevalence of photos tagged "drunk at PARTY!!") - but also that Facebook is ageing faster than the real population.What does the invasion of Mum, Dad, and the grandparents mean for Facebook? That's harder to discern. Perhaps more advertising opportunities - because the older generation is more accustomed to react favourably to adverts? Or more potential revenue, because that generation has (or used to have) more money?But the more interesting question is whether this will mean any change in the culture of Facebook - always assuming that it has any discernible culture. When you have more people as members than the biggest cities, but none of them actually has to get along - and can instead exist in their own silos, untroubled by the physical and economic questions that you'd get in a real city (trivia such as taxation, sewage disposal and crime) - then it's questionable whether there is any such thing as a "Facebook culture".Which may be a long-winded way of saying: even if Facebook was stuffed full of octogenarians,how would you know?And would you care? Have you noticed its demographic changing? And does it matter?
The Guildford-basedMedia Molecule, creators of the PlayStation phenomenon Little Big Planet, swept the Game Developers Choice Awards board this evening at the 2009 Game Developers Conference in San Francisco, winning all but two of the gongs they were nominated for. I spoke with Alex Evans and Mark Healy earlier today about the lessons they feel they've learned from their most successful - and ambitious - game yet, and what they hope to achieve in the future.Click here forPart 1and here forPart 2.
At this year's Game Developers Conference 2009, veteran video game musicianTommy Talaricowas honoured with the Game Developers Choice Ambassador award for his 20 years service to the community. I spoke with Tommy about Game Stars Live, the classical event he started, and the threat of licensed game music to his way of life.Check out the videohere.
Every year at the Game Developers Conference, Gamelab co-founder and Rules of Play authorEric Zimmermanhosts the Game Design Challenge, a thought-experiment for three top level game developers. The challenges demand that the competitors develop a design idea base don a topic of Eric's choosing; several years ago, Sims creator Will Wright took the gong for his game aboutthe poetry of Emily Dickinson– USBEmily – while last year, Hitchiker's Guide to the Galaxy developer Steve Meretsky walked away with the prize for his idea, Bac Attack, a cross-species concept that pitted human against bacteria.This year, Eric took a more controversial line: "My First Time," aimed at getting three industry luminaries to consider both sex and autobiography – things generally not considered or taken seriously in games, but are taken very seriously in other art forms, from cinema to literature.Eric explained his rationale for running the annual event: "We're in a medium that's incredibly plastic," he offered at the outset of the challenge. "We can have characters that can do and say whatever they want, but universally game money goes into pulp genres like sci fi, horror and military. There's so much more," he argues. "The purpose of this challenge is to think about how we can create games that really break away and create something new."The winners this year, Heather Kelly from indie game showcaseKokoromiand Erin Robinson, indie game developer fromWadjet Eye Gamesin New York, were joined by last year's winner Steve Meretsky andHabbo Hotelcreator Sulke Haro. The ideas included Heather and Erin's Wario Ware-style series of minigames (Our First Times), Sulke's social network-based, multimedia storytelling platform (Your First Time) and Steve's Second Life-based text-style adventure that led through four stages of a geek's life (WAIT time passes...).The ideas were at times crude and other times self-revealing. Heather and Erin's minigames exposed the more awkward yet practical aspects of teenage fumbling, while Steve's game took players through a first-person tour of high school student ("miserable experience", a still unlucky college student at MIT ("social acceptance is available", marriage, home life (you've mostly transcended your awkward roots) and culminating at a high school reunion ("the kicker"). Sulka's was a thoughtful approach to the awkwardness of the audience who would likely be playing the game – offering creative challenges using resources from around the web.While the game design challenge is often viewed as a bit of fun in a packed conference of three intense days, Eric argues that the themes tackled every year are the themes that the gathered designers should be tackling in their games. "It's up to you," he argued, "to take the inspiration from these games, and to think up better games, to design better games and to make better games."While I don't envisage "My First Time" hitting the shelves any time soon, it would be a real challenge for game developers to take these lessons and to implement them in their current portfolios. Once again, an excellent show.
Could World of Warcraft and Diablo 3 appear on the next Microsoft console? Blizzard's Rob Pardo wouldn't say but he didconfirmthat the company had talked with Microsoft about the successor to the 360. Quite how far those talks got remains to be seen but that won't stop the speculation. Personally I love the idea of WoW – or, even better, WoW 2 – on a console. Azeroth deserves the big screen, surround sound speaker treatment (and yes, I know you can get this playing on a high-end PC, but you get my point). But the problem has always been the controls. How do you map the relative complexity of WoW – or any MMO controls – onto a pad? Pardo thinks this is still the major stumbling block."There are are so many games like we make at Blizzard that we don't take to consoles because they don't support the input device and you end up with crappy ports. That's why RTS games never do well on consoles," he said.Erm, didn't Halo War just shift a million Rob? But you know what he means. 99% of console RTS games are fiddly and unsatisfying. Pardo thinks new hardware is the only way RTS and MMO games will ever properly work on a console."If I was them, I'd be sitting around trying to figure out what's a cool input device that supports all types of new kinds of games."And with the huge revenue generated by the likes of WoW you can imagine Microsoft are doing just that. Anyway, MMO and RTS games – do you actually want to play them on your console? Or will the PC always be the home for these kinds of games?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Nintendo's President Satoru Iwata addressed a rapt crowd this morning in San Francisco at the 2009 Game Developers Conference. The audience, who began queuing before 7am and stretched around the city block, were rewarded for with a glimpse of a new Legend of Zelda title for the Nintendo DS, a free Nintendo DS game and information about new features for the Wii.Starting his hour-long keynote with a deep analysis of the success of the software giant's game content at the hands of the legendary Shigeru Miyamoto, Iwata explained that their secret is down to the design process: extensive prototyping, working in small teams and making sure it's all about the fun."More than anyone I know, Miyamoto views game development as an opportunity," he said. "I would say he's leveraging these development opportunities better than anyone else in the world today."The result is an installed user-base that eclipses that of the Microsoft XBox and Sony Playstation3, many of whom don't have the rival consoles in their households. Nintendo's success amongst a broader demographic than even Iwata had anticipated has stimulated several stumbling catch-up initiatives by the other platforms, which have seen them positioned as the leaders in the indie games and DIY community spaces.Nintendo has been accused of pandering to their new, predominantly casual community, and Iwata took the opportunity at GDC to speak to the hard core gamers who made up the majority of the audience, and for whom indie publishing is becoming an increasingly viable - and necessary - outlet for their content. He announced a new storage system for the Wii that allows users to download and store more content on the console and on backup high capacity memory cards; the integrated SD facility, available today, can hold up to 240 titles, which can be saved to and accessed from directly.As if to make up for any significant content announcements, all keynote attendees were given free copies of Rhythm Heaven, their new rhythm-based minigame software for the Nintendo DS. After announcing the new DSiWare animation creation platform, WarioWare Snapped - a series of minigames that makes use of the built-in camera - and a virtual arcade platform with classic coin-op era titles, he popped the big announcements: a new Final Fantasy title, My Life and a Darklord (sequel to My Life as a King), and a new Legend of Zelda title for the DS, the 3D Spirit Tracks. It will be available in Japan and in the US later this year.The announcement-light keynote left many GDC attendees disappointed, but Iwata's message was very clear: Nintendo intends to bring indie developers to its platforms, by offering opportunities for anyone.
After a neighbour had a break-in, taking a look at the security of my home seemed an appropriate step. Some form of CCTV was attractive, as I wanted to use my PC as the centre of a security system. Ease of use, fast set-up and wireless connectivity were also high on my list of ideal features.Better known for its vast array of keyboards and mice, Logitech now has a range of security devices based around CCTV. The Logitech Indoor Video Security Master System includes a surveillance camera that connects wirelessly to your PC. Once it's set up, you can monitor live video footage within the camera's field of vision, record events to your PC, receive email or SMS message updates from the camera and even access your recordings over the internet.The entire security system is based on HomePlug technology, which uses the electrical circuits in your home to transmit the video images from the cameras you have set up. The camera connects to the wireless transmitter via an Ethernet cable that plugs into the mains. You'll also need a spare USB port on your PC to accommodate the receiver that will also need its own power socket. I found the installation fast and easy. The WiLife Command Centre software installed on my Vista laptop without any issues. (Windows XP should work fine too.)The camera itself is basically a webcam that can sit on your window sill, or be stuck to a window with a suction cup. The installation instructions state that you shouldn't plug either the receiver or transmitter into a surge protection power strip, but as I didn't have any spare wall sockets, I tried this anyway. The monitoring software detected the camera without any problems. If you do encounter installation issues, then using two mains wall sockets should be enough to get the system up and running.The surveillance software has a simple interface that can be customised to your precise needs. Multiple cameras (up to five, including one cunningly disguised as a bedroom alarm clock) can be attached to the system, and their video feeds viewed on screen together or separately. You'll need to manually focus the camera's lens to get the sharpest picture quality. The best way to use the camera is to set it to begin recording when it detects movement in its field of vision. This worked first time and provided video footage that I could play back to check the camera was capturing the images I wanted, and was correctly focused.The system also enables you to set up email alerts and mobile phone messaging. A snapshot can be sent to any email address or mobile phone at set intervals. The most powerful feature is the ability to access your cameras online. The Wi­Life service uses your favourite internet browser for a WiLife account where you can view the live video feed from your cameras. This worked perfectly first time, though the system prompts you to install Microsoft's Silverlight to view the footage. The WiLife software also lets you move the camera lens remotely – if you stump up for a platinum account (£49 a year). This gives you an upgrade to your Command Centre software that offers online storage and access to video footage via any internet connected PC. The most attractive feature, however, is the ability to pan, tilt and zoom your cameras remotely.The quality of the video footage – the maximum resolution is 640x480 with a frame rate of 15 frames per second – is certainly adequate for most general surveillance. You can tweak the brightness and contrast, but don't expect this webcam to give you hi-def videos.Overall, I liked the fast and simple setup, and the ability to access the camera from any internet-connected PC. Having snapshots emailed to me is an added bonus. The software is intuitive and easy to use, but if you really want to get the most from the entire system, upgrading to a platinum account will be a must. But at nearly £50, you should look carefully at how you will use your cameras before parting with the cash.You could build a complete surveillance system for your home – but the cost of additional cameras is quite high. Ultimately what looks at first glance like a bit of a gimmick in practice actually works quite well. If you want to experiment with CCTV for your home without going the whole hog of installing a professional system, this solution is a good first step.ProsFast and easy setup, wireless connection, remote internet access to camera footage.ConsExpensive for just one camera, subscription needed for additional features, only adequate video quality.logitech.com
FLV to goI bought a Philips GoGear MP3 player with ArcSoft download software. It says I can't download YouTube videos because I have not got an FLV codec.Alkesh PatelJS:The FLV codec is used to decode and play movies in Adobe's Flash Video format. Installing a codec such asPlayFLVshould enable you to play FLV movies in Windows Media Player, and FLV codecs are generally included in the codec packs for Media Player Classic and VLC. However, this won't make the movie play on the GoGear, which uses conversion software on the PC to translate movies into the specific video format(s) the MP3 player can handle. You will have to check the manual, but it may only support Microsoft's WMV format.You can, of course, download many YouTube files manually. If the name appears as get_video in the Save As dialogue box, you should change this to something more sensible (eg Sonim-Asunaro_Ginga.flv) before saving the file. Once you have the FLV file, you can convert it yourself using a free program such asSuper ©). Alternatively, you could useWondershare's $25 YouTube Downloader, which will convert FLV files to a number of formats. Either way, choose a format that your GoGear can actually play: converting the file twice will reduce the quality.Cleaning up Street ViewI am shocked and dismayed about this latest Google venture. Can you tell people how to get things removed?Linda MorganJS:Go to Street View in Google Maps and look in the bottom left-hand corner of the image. Next to the copyright notice there's a link that says: "Report a problem". Click it and a page pops up with some prefigured objections, so you just have to select the ones that apply. Privacy Concerns covers faces, houses and cars. Typical entries include: "I have found a picture of my face (or of my child's) and would like it removed," and "I have found a picture of my house and would like it removed". You can also report Inappropriate Content: "I have found offensive content, such as nudity, in this image."  It should be reasonably easy for Google to blur faces and number plates, but removing houses could be more of a problem. In some cases, Google removes the whole image.Music on the moveI have a 40GB portable hard drive that I use to store backups of my photos and music and also to transfer them between my PC and PlayStation 3. I would like to play the files directly off the HD when on the move. I don't want anything as large as a laptop, and was hoping to get something for under £75.Joe HindJS:I suspect a netbook from Asus or Acer is the smallest and cheapest thing that might do the job, so you'd be better off spending £75 or so on a portable MP3 player with 8GB of storage. It's possible that a portable media player such as an Archos 605 Wi-Fi (£170-£180) would plug into your hard drive, but even if the USB connection worked, I'm not sure it would provide enough power for portable use. An Archos 605 stores 80GB, so you wouldn't need your portable hard drive anyway.Return of the NoteJet?Why is there no longer a laptop with an integral printer? In 1996 I bought the first Canon printbook and in 1999 I purchased the last version. I work in off-the-beaten-track countries and carting around a separate printer is a bind.Michael MeadowcroftJS:I don't remember a laptop with a built-in printer since the Canon NoteJet, and I don't expect to see any new models now that wireless printing is generally simple. You might find theBrother MW-140BT Mobile Printermeets your needs, at a price. It uses Bluetooth to print on small bits of paper (roughly 4" x 3") and can automatically reduce A4 documents to A7. If not, we're waiting for the result ofBrother's takeover of Pentax's mobile printer business, mentioned in January.Backchat•Bill Finlay wanted to rescue data from some old Mac floppies. The mention of G2 Macs should perhaps have been to "G2" Macs, as the usage began with G3. Thesepre-G3 PowerPC Macswere numbered from 7500 to 9600.• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
On the face of it, ITV Online emerged from the announcement ofITV's 2008 resultsin reasonable shape – revenues were up 9% to £36m. However, by the time the executive chairman Michael Grade's presentation ended, the overriding imperative to save £155m this year had left Online stripped of all but two core operations.Even though most of ITV Online's businesses were declared profitable, the division is now resigned to losing Friends Reunited and the business directory service Scoot, while also closing down ITV Play, ITV Local and the price comparison site Price Terrier. Understandably, most attention has focused on Friends Reunited, once the UK's eighth most popular online presence and still responsible for half the portfolio's revenue (£18m a year).Short on profitIt's a situation that Ben McOwen Wilson, director of Online, has to make the best of. "ITV Online was set up to take ideas and identify opportunities for ITV to take our ownership of brands, available airtime or cross-promotional power and turn them into business ideas and drive them to profitability," he explains. "A number of our businesses are at different stages and some were clearly more nascent than others on their path to profitability."Friends Reunited was the UK's first social networking site, and the clear market leader when ITV bought it for £120m in 2005. However, after Facebook and MySpace launched with free registration, it stuck to a paid subscription model for three more years. Despite a peak of 5.5 million users after the relaunch last July, comScore now shows it languishing at1.7 million UK usersin December – a 20% slide year on year.McOwen Wilson disputes both statistics and any criticism of squandering such a sizeable head start. "I don't accept the charge that ITV didn't see social networking coming. Friends made its money providing a payment barrier around access to real personal data, but after Facebook people were prepared to put personal data online – sometimes naively large amounts – on a real-name basis; that was a … social shift that took everybody by surprise."Yet Friends Reunited lost the plot long before ITV took control. Spin–off services – Genes Reunited and Friends Reunited Dating – appeared in 2003 and, while now profitable, proved a distraction to what the managing director of Friends Reunited, Jonathan Clark, called the core site's "relatively shallow, infrequent use". Surely more could have been done to inspire users to visit more often or remain longer?"I think that's probably right," concedes McOwen Wilson, "and it was perhaps a failure of focusing on profitability rather than growth. But will Facebook or YouTube ever be profitable? As a user it may be great or cool or doing everything you want it to do; as an investor they're legitimate questions. Friends always had to exploit a different subsection of the population. Facebook tends to be about telling the story of one's immediate life, what I was doing at 11.50 or 12.15. Friends is more like the round robin letters you send out at Christmas, and that's how it's always been."The decision has been made to sell "when the time is right" and the question is how much can ITV recoup from what Grade once described as its "undersung jewel in the crown". McOwen Wilson remains confident a buyer will be found at "well north of £60m", one of the more bullish estimates of its current value. He is also cherry-picking key components of the database to sell off individually."The reason for selling is to do with the need to get cash into ITV, and an asset that is considered non-core but profitable is a readily identifiable source of cash … We're also selling around five core components of data and add-ons that advertisers can buy back – and in a market where CPT [costs per thousand for user data] on Facebook are sub-five cents, some of the Friends inventory is in the £2-£3 level."ITV Online has two priorities, one of which is itv.com, now the UK's fifth most popular entertainment site, according to comScore. "The trick this year will be to maintain the growth trajectory we've been on," says McOwen Wilson. "But we're delivering 12m-15m video views per month on itv.com, which is well ahead of expectation. If I'd said before we could get 20% of a terrestrial audience online they'd never have believed me – but the reality is that's where we are for some shows and we fully intend to grow that number."Wave goodbyeHowever, improving broadcast content may be a hard trick to pull off, with one  well-placed insider claiming that staff morale is "dismal" and half of itv.com's content team is either being laid off or looking for alternative employment. "itv.com is the only solid part of the business and has shown great growth and profit," claims the source. "And yet, they've just demonstrated it's not important to update the website as much as possible. Why would you want to mess with that? I don't know and nobody's bothered to tell us."McOwen Wilson denies such claims, saying that while Online is shouldering its share of cutbacks, they are restricted to businesses being sold or closed down. He also believes that, despite Kangaroo's £8m demise, recent deals with BT Vision and Virgin Media means even the BBC's video-on-demand platform is in his sights.  "There are days I look enviously at the BBC having 74 people working on iPlayer, compared to the two we've got and I wish I'd spent £136m getting ours out of the box the way they did. But look at the all-time top 25 clips on YouTube UK – eight of them were originally broadcast on ITV. Have we perfectly worked out how to make it all work? No, we've just scratched the surface – but that's the exciting bit."
A couple of weeks ago, the Guardian Guide featured a tongue-in-cheek lexicon of pop culture slang, which covered everything from mumblecore to dubstep. Right up there on the first page was the music genre "wonky", a fusion of hip-hop, crunk and electro, defined by the enthusiastic use of glitchy synth noises. What the article didn't mention was the huge debt this sound owes to the chiptune scene, an international underclass of musicians who create incredible tracks by electronically torturing the sound chips found in vintage videogame hardware.It sounds sort of geeky, and in some ways it is – a lot of chiptune artists specialise in creating cover versions which sound as if they're playing on, say, an old Super Nintendo Entertainment system. Clever, but of limited appeal. What we're seeing now, though, are the first signs of a mainstream breakthrough. The UK chip music artists Pixelh8 and Unicorn Kid have done sessions for Radio 1, while You Love Her Coz She's Dead made it on to the soundtrack of teen drama Skins. Superpowerless recently won an MTV/Vodafone new music competition with his song Wasted My Time, which the artist described as: "Game Boy-fueled adventure-core."Purveyors of mainstream electronica are also taking an interest. Last year, the moody dance act Crystal Castles were accused of heavily sampling the chiptune artists Lo-bat. and Covox, without permission or recognition. More legitimately, several chiptune veterans have created software to allow non-techie musicians to use classic game noises. Pixelh8's Music Tech Pro Performer Synthesizer can control the on-board sound on a Nintendo DS or GBA, and has been used by Damon Albarn. The duo 8&nbsp;Bit Weapon have teamed up with Sony Creative Software to create a loop and sound effects library covering various old-skool computers.So what's the appeal of the genre? Part of it is the general musical obsession with retro hardware, about digital kids falling for the authenticity of analogue sounds. "We think that now people are starting to realise that these low-fi sound chips are a viable source of inspiration as well as a new soundscape to play with all together," say Seth and Michelle of 8&nbsp;Bit Weapon. "You can't get the gritty synthetic sound of a Commodore 64 anywhere else in the electronic world. You can't get the phat haunting bass of a Nintendo Famicom triangle wave anywhere else either. Each machine has its own distinct sound and personality."But there's still a stigma attached, an unwillingness to recognise video­game music as a source or inspiration. Josh Davis, aka Bitshifter, a New York chip music pioneer who co-organises the excellentBlip Festival, says artists are scared of attaining a condescending "Mario-at-a-rave" label.It's the same as Hollywood and modern TV shows stealing ideas and conventions from games without acknowledging their sources. In the cultural space, videogames have to jostle for every teeny step forward. Sometimes you wonder if it'll ever change.
A dozen or so companies are now gearing up to make – or at least sell – netbooks that use chips and operating systems more familiar from the mobile phone business. Pegatron, which is the contract manufacturing arm of Asus Group, has been showing prototypes, andthe LimePC is reportedly already on sale in China.One popular idea is to run Google's Linux-based Android software on an ARM Cortex, which is compatible with the ARM chips in most smartphones. This sort of netbook would work like a mobile phone, while still having an 8.9" or 10.2" screen and a proper keyboard.There are plenty of shops ready to sell such machines: they're the ones selling mobiles on the high street. Network operators can also give netbooks away like phones, and get the money back on mobile broadband contracts. This should not be difficult because phone-style netbooks will be cheaper than today's Windows and Linux netbooks, and much cheaper than some smartphones.The big question is: how many buyers want a netbook that's a scaled-up mobile phone rather than a scaled-down notebook PC? The truth is that no one knows. However, very few people wanted them last time.The idea that you can use online applications instead of desktop software has been popular for at least a decade. It led to roughly two dozen companies launching "webpads" in 1998-2001, but there turned out to beno market for them.Microsoft had already cancelled its own WinPad project but tried again with Windows CE 2.11 in 1998. At the time, CE was used in PDAs, and it's now best known from Windows Mobile phones. The Jupiter (H/PC Pro) version enabled the production of what Microsoft calledPC Companions, such as the Compaq Aero 8000, Vadem Clio, Sharp Mobilon Pro and NEC MobilePro 800. These were actually netbooks, of the sort ARM is promoting now.Even the netbook name goes back to the 1990s. The Psion NetBook started as the Series 7 – basically, a bigger version of the fine Series 5 – and became the NetBook Pro when Psion changed to Windows CE in 2003.The problem is that all of these machines flopped, and most flopped horribly. People bought systems that were bigger, heavier, had much worse battery life (PC Companions typically lasted 8-12 hours on one charge) and cost a lot more instead. While they gathered dust on the shelves, sales of Windows-based portable PCs grew at a rapid rate.Microsoft tried to get Windows users to try CE – a new modular operating system, written from scratch – by giving it the Windows name, a Windows-style interface, and CE versions of familiar software such as Internet Explorer and Windows Media Player. It didn't work. People didn't buy CE machines, which couldn't run the Windows 98, 2000 and XP programs they relied on.In 2007, a new wave of netbooks began, led by Asus and followed by Acer and MSI. Most early machines ran Linux, partly because Windows XP cost too much. (Windows prices were set when PCs cost £1,500-£2,500, not £150-£250.) However, sales really took off when XP became available at a low price. According to NPD, which tracks US retail sales, Windows netbooks took 90% of that mar­ket in the December-February quarter.Of course, times change and Arm/Android-style netbooks could be a great success. But I'm not taking any bets. Not only has the idea has been tried and failed, but this time around, the Intel Atom chip means the price/performance gap is very much smaller than it was.
Microsoft unveiledInternet Explorer 8at itsMix conference in Las Vegas last weekand became a victim of bad timing, when its "secure" new browser was hacked during thePwn2Own competition at the CanSecWest security conference in Vancouver. But my experience with IE8 suggests it will survive this initial stumble. IE8 is much snappier and far more secure than IE6 and IE7, has many usability improvements, and some innovative features that are not available elsewhere.But – and this is important for a new Microsoft program – IE8 doesn't really look any different from IE7, and it happily picks up bookmarks, toolbars and other plug-ins you have already installed. IE7 users should find IE8 feels just as comfortable.IE8 is a 16MB download (including Microsoft's Malicious Software Removal Tool) and easy to install. However, it does want you to go through a long series of screens about two new features:AcceleratorsandWeb Slices.Accelerators let you do things quickly from a web page. For example, you can highlight a block of text, wait for the blue arrow to pop up, and select an option from the drop-down menu. The option might be to blog the selection, look it up on Google, find it on a map, share it on Facebook, translate it or whatever: it depends on the Accelerators you have installed.Web Slices let you see information from websites without going to them. You can, for example, watch things on eBay, the top 10 items from Digg, the Most Twittered Videos, or the latest news from actor Jake Thomas. Not many Web Slices have been developed so far, but if Jake Thomas can have one, they can't be beyond most big companies.Where IE8 can run into trouble is in displaying websites that have been written to deal with the quirks of IE6 and IE7. IE8 represents a big step forward in terms of Microsoft support for current web standards, but it also has a Compatibility View to handle the quirks. At least this should encourage support for standards over quirks, which will be good for everyone in the long run.IE8 doesn't compete with Firefox on geeky scripts, it doesn't compete with Chrome for JavaScript speed, or with Safari for eye-candy. What it does do is provide a quick, usable, standards-based browser for ordinary mortals who really don't care about the browser wars, but just want to get stuff done.
Shops and other everyday services must make "reasonable adjustments" to accommodate disabled customers. So says the Disability Discrimination Act (DDA), but for the UK's 2 million users of hearing aids, provision often falls short. Induction loops – which work like a short-range radio system between speaker and hearing aid – make hearing easier while eliminating background noise. When they work, that is.But often staff don't know what a loop is, let alone whether it's fully functional. When theRoyal National Institute for Deaf peopleworked with one major transport provider to evaluate its provision, only 3% of loops at ticket purchase and assistance windows gave an acceptable experience, and 20% did not work.Abrupt inductionWhen the Guardian called a selection of shops, cinemas, a bank and a hospital to ask if they had induction loops, only one person could help. We were asked what a loop was, told to ring automated booking lines instead, asked to call back later, told no loops were present in shops that had them, and screamed at by one receptionist who said it was "not her job to know".Induction loops are particularly useful if there's a physical barrier such as a solid glass screen in banks, stations and post offices. But in another RNID study, in which 500 hearing aid users reported  over two years on loop provision in high-street chains, post offices attracted the highest number of complaints: loops were switched off in 18 branches, did not work in a further 21 and eight did not have them.Some companies have fulfilled their requirements under the law. Lloyds TSB holds the RNID's Louder Than Words charter mark, and Tesco has successfully trialled new loops in some stores.But it's no wonder that those who rely on these systems are frustrated, not least because shops and banks often expect advance notice when use of a loop system is required. "I struggle to use the phone, so how am I supposed to contact them?" asks Jonny Cotsen, a multimedia developer from Cardiff. He relies heavily on lip-reading, "but with lots of sound interference, it becomes more difficult".The loop is simply a wire that goes around a room or listening area. The theory is simple, says Guido Gybels, technology director at RNID. Sound is fed in from a microphone, TV or other audio source into the loop. "You put a current through the system, which creates a magnetic field." That induces a current in a tiny coil inside the listening device (a hearing aid or cochlear implant); the current can be transformed back into audio, just like a loudspeaker, and fed through to the user.Loop systems can be fixed or portable. "They work with hearing aids that have a telecoil facility," explains Andrew Thomas of the induction loop specialists Contacta. "Most NHS aids have a telecoil, as do around half from private dispensers, and some cochlear implants."In response to the RNID's study, a Post Office Ltd spokesman said: "Post Office Ltd is committed to providing and maintaining induction loops over our entire network of 11,500 post office branches. We are currently auditing these facilities and will replace or repair any that are not working over the next few months."However, simply installing a loop does not constitute compliance with the DDA. "The induction loop has to be present, it has to be operational and it has to be accessible," says Oliver Fry of the Equalities and Human Rights Commission.David Banes, development director of computing and disability charity ­AbilityNet, adds: "Reasonable means an adjustment that's available to the user. If nobody has training and no one knows of the solution, that's not reasonable."Installation problemsJohn Popplestone, director of Connevans, which supplies products for deaf and hard of hearing people, says faults may be introduced during installation. "A lot of people who install loops aren't experienced. I've seen loops installed on counters where there isn't enough room, so the contractor has squashed what should be an oblong shape. This won't work, as the top and bottom components cancel each other out. If a counter is made of stainless steel, you can't put a loop pad behind it because it absorbs the signal."Popplestone says a loop system can run for at least five years without problems, "unless somebody breaks the cable. Some systems use copper tape underneath carpet – if you replace the carpet and damage the copper foil, or somebody drives a nail through it, the loop won't work."Portable loops must be charged regularly to prevent batteries from dying, and staff should know where to find them. Poor or non-existent signage is also a major problem, says Thomas. "You need signs so people know where to stand to access the loop, or you may as well not put a system in."When problems do occur, users must complain directly to service providers as councils don't deal with this issue. "People get fobbed off with a standard letter," says RNID campaigner Jay Francis. "Members write to us and say they don't go shopping any more because there won't be any working induction loops." That's a lot of money potentially lost for a failure of a comparatively simple technology.
