On this week's edition Guardian digital correspondentJemima Kisstalks toKristin Georgefrom TuneIn about their app that is fast becoming the portal to the world's radio and on-demand audio and why they are excited about streaming the New Orleans Jazz fest live and becoming the default audio player for leading car manufacturers.Moshi Monsters is a sensation with kids around the world and at their fifth birthday party, Jemima spoke toMichael Acton Smith, the founder and CEO of the company behind it, Mind Candy.We also have a round-up of this week's tech news, including a new currency, the "Amazon Coin" and news that BlackBerry Messenger will be on your iPhone or Android phone soon.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft Surface Pro review &gt;&gt; PC ProSasha Muller:Stop to consider what you're getting, however, and the Surface Pro really isn't bad value for money at all. The hardware is impeccably well constructed, the performance good, and the Wacom digitiser, stylus and Full HD display make for a great combination. The ergonomic irritations in laptop mode, together with modest battery life, mean that it won't suit everyone, but the Surface Pro is a great choice for those who want power and full Windows compatibility in such a tiny device.Costs £799 inc VAT for the 128GB model, but the Touch cover is an extra £100 (unless you bought a Surface RT; the keyboards are interchangeable). Choose your configuration carefully, because you can't upgrade the disk or RAM. (Does that make it a tablet?)Google Maps integrates Google Earth and Street View in completely redesigned interface &gt;&gt; The VergeGoogle Maps on the desktop has been rebuilt from the ground up, ushering in its most significant changes since its launch eight years ago. After spending some time with the new Maps, and with its lead designer, we're struck by Google's choice to do away with most of the user interface elements and let the map reach from edge to edge in your browser. A lone search box in the upper left gives you access to Maps' features, as does clicking on elements within the map. Google has integrated Google Now's card metaphor to present information from a newly built-in version of Google Earth, reviews from Zagat and Google+, Street View, and directions. And new user interface tweaks surface locations and transit routes before you even search for them.Former Lulzsec hacker Jake Davis on his motivations &gt;&gt; BBC NewsJake Davis, who went by the online alias Topiary, says he now regrets "95% of the things I've ever typed on the internet"."It was my world, but it was a very limited world. You can see and hear it, but you can't touch the internet. It's a world devoid of empathy - and that shows on Twitter, and the mob mentality against politicians and public figures. There is no empathy."So it was my world, and it was a very cynical world and I became a very cynical person."Davis was, and is, witty and insightful. He has to serve 12 months in a youth offenders' facility; let's hope it passes quickly.Pick your poison: messaging will be fragmented, expensive, or locked-in &gt;&gt; The VergeThe hottest space in mobile tech right now is messaging, with all the apps that let you skip past high-priced SMS and send texts for free (or very cheap). Just this week, we've heard that BlackBerry Messenger will soon work on iPhone and Android — and yesterday, Google Hangouts launched on those same platforms. Facebook, too, has made a big push to promote its Messenger solution with Facebook Home and Chat Heads just last month. Added together, these apps have surpassed traditional SMS in the total number of messages sent.Yet for all that innovation in chat, there's still a problem. All these communication apps can't communicate with each other.Exactly like instant messaging on the desktop, but now on mobile. Guess what though - there's one messaging standard that works across all mobile phones. It's called SMS.BiTE interactive finds only one In 10 American smartphone owners would wear Google Glass regularly &gt;&gt; PRWebDespite the hype surrounding the upcoming launch of Google Glass, only one in 10 Americans who own a smartphone say they would actually wear it all the time – even if priced within their personal budget. The findings are according to the Google Glass Adoption Forecast released today from BiTE interactive, the mobile application specialist for Fortune 1000 brands, which commissioned YouGov to poll the views of a nationally representative sample of American adults towards Google's latest innovation.This has been wrongly reported elsewhere as "1 in 10 Americans would wear Glass". The smartphone population is smaller - about 137m, not 250m. But 13.7m people who would wear itall the time?That's a big market.Google Chromebook Pixel in PC Laptops &amp; Netbooks &gt;&gt; eBayAnyone would think that these had been handed out willy-nilly at a conference to people who already had computers because they do development.How a career con man led a federal sting that cost Google $500m &gt;&gt; Wired.comJake Pearson, in a fantastic piece of journalism:Whitaker recorded a phone conversation with his California Google rep, walking them through the website in real time while explaining how the scam worked. He deliberately showed how PVD was a conduit for the rogue online pharmacies, confirming that his rep was following him every step of the way. At one point, the rep asked if the rogue sites had been approved by PharmacyChecker. Of course Whitaker admitted that they hadn't been, but it didn't matter; PVD never lost its approval, and the illegal sites were allowed to continue to operate.The investigation, the agents decided, was now complete.So many of the details in here are simply astonishing, especially if you've ever bought pharmaceuticals or similar online from dodgy sites - or found them through a famous search engine.How does the iPhone 5 camera compare to previous iPhone cameras? &gt;&gt; Camera+Taken with every iPhone camera, starting with the very first, to the most recent. The difference from the 3G to the 3GS is colossal. (It's an iPhone/iPad app, which is why it doesn't have reference shots from other handsets.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Amazon is facing mounting questions over the extent of the business activities conducted out of Patriot Court, its headquarters in Slough, threatening to throw the group's controversial UK tax structure into disarray.A second supplier has contacted the Guardian followingan investigationdetailing a publisher's claims that certain book-supply contracts were thrashed out by Amazon's buying staff from Slough.The whistleblower revelations come from a music publishing executive, who asked not to be named. He and his sales team make dozens of trips to Slough to refine the detail of contracts, the source claimed, adding that meetings were held with Amazon's head of entertainment and with the music category manager.His business sells millions of pounds of CDs to Amazon in the UK for sale to customers in Britain.He said: "We talked about price, discounts, payment terms, marketing contributions, return rights, everything. There was no other person in the equation. It was entirely done in Slough."Once we agreed the terms and conditions they would get their legal department to frame it into a contract that would be with Luxembourg."A spokesman for Amazon declined to comment on these allegations, reiterating: "Amazon pays all applicable taxes in every jurisdiction that it operates within."A tax lawyer described Amazon as "the Manchester United of the tax world" for the success of its tax structuring."It plays by the rules, is rather good at doing so, and wins regularly," saidAndrew Watters, of Thomas Eggar. "It is perfectly understandable when opposing fans say all this is rather unfair. However, when the people who write the rules and referee the game make the same charge, perhaps they should change the rules, up the standard of refereeing or accept that in the real world people play to win."Yesterday the Guardian reported that Amazon appeared to be carrying out substantive trading activity in the UK through its buying discussions with book publishers. Although the contract, extracts of which have been seen by the paper, shows it is a deal entered into with Amazon EU Sarl, a Luxembourg firm, the publishing executive who struck the deal insisted it had been agreed with staff from Slough.Margaret Hodge, chair of the Commons public accounts committee, has signalled Amazon is likely to be recalled to give fresh evidence on its tax arrangements following the Guardian's story.The tax campaign group Ethical Consumer this month launched itsranking of booksellersin response to calls for a boycott of Amazon, which controls 41% of the market for printed books in the UK and has an even greater share of ebook sales.It has given big UK booksellers three ratings, of "worst", "middle" and "best", according to whether it suspects the business could be using tax avoidance strategies due to corporate links to tax haven jurisdictions.Amazon and the online seller The Book Depository, also owned by Amazon, were marked among the "worst" retailers on this ranking. Those ranked "best" included Books Etc, Foyles and Blackwells.Prem Sikka, professor of accounting at the University of Essex and a longtime campaigner against multinational tax avoidance, said: "My overwhelming impression is that corporate tax advisers are now totally out of control. HMRC has been pursuing a 'softly, softly' approach and it is totally ineffective."The prime minister has pledged to raise the issue of the taxation of multinational internet businesses at the G8 meeting in Northern Ireland next month.International leaders have already asked the Organisation for International Cooperation and Development, which oversees the tax rules in this area, to come up with an action plan.One of the points this plan suggests is an updated solution to the issues related to jurisdiction to tax, in particular in the areas of digital goods and services.The OECD has already said: "These solutions may include a revision of treaty provisions."
Google and Amazon came under fierce attack from MPs and tax campaigners  after fresh whistleblower allegations put further strain on claims by the internet giants that their multibillion-pound UK-facing businesses should not be taxed by Revenue &amp; Customs.Margaret Hodge, chair of the public accounts committee, told Google's northern Europe boss, Matt Brittin, that his company's behaviour on tax was "devious, calculated and, in my view, unethical".He had been recalled by MPs after being accused of misleading parliament over the firm's tax affairs six months ago. Hodge said: "You are a company that says you 'do no evil'. And I think that you do do evil." Hodge was referring to Google's long-standing corporate motto, "Don't be evil," which appeared in its $23bn US stock market flotation prospectus in 2004.The attack on Google is likely to be echoed if, as Hodge has hinted, Amazon is also recalled to clarify evidence in the wake of a Guardian investigation into the world's largest online retailer and its UK tax arrangements.More suppliers have told the Guardian of extensive negotiations with Amazon staff in Slough, adding to the impression that the company carries out important trading activities in the UK and so could be liable for tax.One music publishing executive said: "I did millions of pounds of sales to Amazon. All buying and marketing was negotiated and run through Slough. I never heard anything from Luxembourg." A spokesman for the company said: "Amazon pays all applicable taxes in every jurisdiction that it operates within."Google and Amazon insist that sales from the UK are invoiced from other territories and any resulting profits should not be taxed in Britain, despite US bosses telling investors that they took sales from UK customers last year of £3.2bn and £4.2bn respectively. The latest published accounts for their most substantive UK companies showed tax paid in Britain of just £3.4m and £3.2m respectively.The UK is one of the most successful markets for Google and Amazon, with British customers generating more than one in every 10 dollars of sales. In both cases UK sales grew by about 20% last year.Lin Homer, chief executive of HMRC, also appeared before Hodge's committee  and was asked why she appeared not to be taking a tougher line with internet multinationals. She replied: "We see – but understand more fully – some of the information that might seem to the general public to be surprising."Earlier MPs had revealed that several Google whistleblowers had approached them with detailed evidence demonstrating sales activities taking place in the UK. One former Google staff member had contacted MPs claiming he had earned bonuses of three to four times his salary for "selling and closing deals".Brittin maintained that no one working for Google UK had the authority to close a sale – that power lay only with Google Ireland. "Calling someone a 'sales rep' is not the issue here," he said. He denied misleading parliament in November when he told MPs: "Nobody [in the UK] is selling." But in an extraordinary series of admissions – during almost an hour of testimony – he said   he understood how MPs, the public, some large advertisers on Google and even some of the 300 Google UK staff dealing with British advertisers might feel the group was negotiating and closing deals in the UK.Nevertheless, Brittin repeatedly insisted that, for tax purposes, all such transactions were with Google Ireland. "The UK team are selling, but they are not closing ... People here [in the UK] cannot sell what they don't own," he said.John Dixon, head of tax at Ernst &amp; Young, said tests to determine whether an Irish company should be taxed in the UK were broader than that. An Irish company also became liable for UK tax if agents on its behalf were in effect negotiating and closing a deal. He said he could not comment directly on Google's affairs because the search company was a client.Dixon said E&amp;Y auditors meticulously reviewed what functions were being carried out by multinational companies in each of its territories, especially if there was a question mark over its taxable presence – or, in tax jargon, whether it was a "UK permanent establishment". He said the teams carrying out this work were always separate from E&amp;Y's tax advisers. The accountancy firm made $6bn from tax advice last year.Brittin told MPs that HMRC had been examining Google's tax affairs since 2009. He had been interviewed by tax inspectors, as had many staff who had provided detailed answers to questions in relation to the extent to the company's sales activity in Britain.  Asked why, as vice-president of sales and operations for northern Europe, he was not based at the firm's European HQ in Ireland he replied: "I happen to be British. I like living in Britain."David Cameron came under pressure  to remove Eric Schmidt, the head of Google, as a senior business adviser to send a message that the government was serious about cracking down on tax avoidance by multinationals. Lord Oakeshott, a former Lib Dem Treasury spokesman, said Schmidt's position was "the height of hypocrisy".He said: "If the British government is serious about tax dodgers, David Cameron must remove him from  the business advisory council which is a personal appointment. Clearly Google are driving a coach and horses through the spirit of the law."Hodge said: "If I was David Cameron, I would consider Eric Schmidt's position."George Osborne has made tackling the practice a priority for Britain's chairmanship of the G8. In an interview with the BBC in April, Schmidt defended Google's practice, suggesting that its contribution to the UK economy was more important than the tax it paid to the exchequer.
More than 50 billion apps have now been downloaded from Apple's App Store since it opened inJuly 2008, the company said yesterday — and Google is not far behind, announcing 48bn downloads from its Google Play store so far.Together, the figures highlight the huge new business created by the explosive spread of smartphones over the past five years, with downloads running at around 1,500 per second across the two stores and generating millions for developers.The 50 billionth app was downloaded by American Brandon Ashmore from Ohio, who receives a $10,000 gift card after downloading the word game Say The Same Thing — but that's small beer compared with the $9bn (£5.9bn) that have been paid out to app developers, representing 70% of the app prices. It's a gigantic new economy that can now make teenagers into millionaires and create entire new businesses. Apple, which takes the other 30% of the revenue, has generated $3.86bn.Finnish company Rovio, which introduced its Angry Birds game to the App Store in December 2009 has since seen almost 2bn downloads worldwide on smartphones and tablets, while 17-year-old Londoner Nick D'Aloisio, sold his company that makes the Summly app to web giant Yahoo in March for an estimated £18m.Apps have also been used to create new sources of publicity by musicians such as Björk, and even Olympic athletes. Usain Bolt's app was downloaded millions of times last summer during the Olympics.With close to 1 billion people using smartphones, and using them much of the time, apps have begun to change how we think about computing, argues Dave Addey, founder and managing director of Agant, which developed the UK Train Times app. "Desktop software used to be complex and would do lots of things. Now we think of apps as doing one thing really well, but individually focused. They've also changed the perception of pricing for software." Where desktop software can cost anywhere from tens to hundreds of pounds, app prices are typically measured in tens of pence – or, frequently, are free.Apps have proliferated dramatically: both Apple and Google boast around 800,000 through their online stores, while Microsoft's Windows Phone Store has 150,000 and BlackBerry World about 205,000.Yet for developers, the growth of the App Store has brought its own problems. The sheer number of apps available has meant getting noticed has become essential to hitting the charts, and so making money; that $9bn paid to developers is very unevenly distributed, with the vast majority going to a comparatively small number of developers. The importance of making a splash with an app has led to schemes outside the store in which third-party companies offer to "buy" positions in the top-selling or most-downloaded app charts.For those on the Google Play store, the problem is piracy, leading to as many as 9 in 10 copies of games in use being pirated versions.Apple's insistence on taking 30% of any sales made through the App Store – including in-app purchases – has also led to clashes with large organisations, notably including Microsoft, which has declined to produce Office for the iPad, apparently because of disagreements about how to pay for it. The Financial Times also withdrew its app from the store in favour of a web version, protesting at the 30% take and Apple's refusal to pass on details about subscribers.Richard Dodd, of the British Retail Consortium, said: "This is a really sharp illustration of how rapidly the ways in which customers are choosing to shop and the things that they are shopping for are developing."
The sentencing of four of the members of the LulzSec hacking crew closes the book on its three-month campaign, waged between May and July 2011, against a range of sites and targets – including government, media and games sites.Yet three big questions remain:•Who was Avunit?The names of five of the members of the group - Sabu, Topiary, Tflow, Kayla and ViraL - are known: they were respectively Hector Xavier Monsegur, Jake Davis, Mustafa Al-Bassam, Ryan Ackroyd and Ryan Cleary.ButLulzSec chatroom logsobtained and published by the Guardian in June 2011 show that there was a sixth member. On 4 June, Topiary commented: "hmm not sure who IS LulzSec really... tflow/Sabu/myself/kayla started it, then tflow was on/off, then Avunit/pwnsauce joined in."The hacker called "Avunit" has never been identified; the claims being made in Australia by a person now charged with hacking a site there to be a "leader" of LulzSec don't square with the activities that the original group. Who and where is Avunit? Whoever they are, they have kept their head down very successfully for two years.•Who has the Bitcoins?When active, the group asked supporters to donate Bitcoins to its address. At the time each Bitcoin was worth between $6 and $10, and Davis estimated that the group had about $18,000 donated by its supporters. "If those coins are not all spent, they are now worth hundreds of thousands," said Mikko Hypponen, chief research officer at the security company F-Secure."Where are they? Who controls them? We don't know. Maybe the Lulzsec guys have a nice stack of coins waiting for them when they get out of jail." At today's prices, which are more than 10 times greater, those coins would be worth about $180,000.Graham Cluley of the security company Sophos said: "Funds like that would normally be confiscated. I think. But I don't know if that applies with Bitcoin. But I think that they were asking for funds via Twitter – and it was Davis who controlled the Twitter account."The coins were held in multiple wallets, but have since been moved into a single wallet, Hypponen says. That suggests that a single person controls the LulzSec Bitcoin stash. "It could make quite a nice defence fund," said Cluley.•Did LulzSec really hack the PlayStation Network?That was the claim made in court during the mitigation hearing. Thehack of the worldwide PSNin April 2011 was a devastating blow to Sony's reputation which led to millions of credit card details being leaked online and in some cases used for fraud, though there's no indication that any of the LulzSec hackers did so.But hacking the PSN was an act requiring very substantial skills that would have been more usual in a top-flight commercial hacker rather than a loose group who had only just come together. If they could do that, one would have expected much more serious hacks.The group did later claim responsibility forhacking Sony Pictures Europe, but that was a lesser exploit. Sony has never said who it thinks carried out the PSN hack, despite hiring two different security firms to investigate it.
Some of the longest ever jail sentences for hacking have been handed down to four British members of the international computer hackers' gang LulzSec who masterminded a string of sophisticated cyber-attacks on major global institutions from their bedrooms.The four bragged of being "gods" and caused millions of pounds of damage in a three-month spree in 2011.The 32-month and 30-month sentences for, respectively, 21-year-old Ryan Cleary of Wickford in Essex and 26-year-old Iraq veteran Ryan Ackroyd of Mexborough in Yorkshire were among the most severe handed down by a British court for such offences. Jake Davis, 20, of Lerwick in Shetland, who acted as group spokesman, received a 24-month sentence in a young offenders' institution – equal to the previous longest given in 2003 to virus-writer Simon Vallor. All will serve half their sentences.Another member of the group, Mustafa Al-Bassam, 18, of Peckham in south London, received a 20-month sentence suspended for two years, and 300 hours' community service.Only James Jeffery, 27, a member of hacking collective Anonymous and an anti-abortion campaigner, has received a 32-month sentence before, for stealing the details of 10,000 women from Britain's largest pregnancy advisory clinic.Judge Deborah Taylor told the four, who had pleaded guilty, that "given your capabilities, the risk [of reoffending] is real and substantial. The name LulzSec encapsulates your desires to cause embarrassment and disruption, while keeping your own identities hidden. You each played your role during a seven-month online campaign … using your technical abilities to cause catastrophic losses for amusement."The "Lulzsec" name is a compound of "lulz" – hacker slang for laughter at others' discomfort – and "security".A fifth member of the group, Hector Xavier Monsegur of New York – who was ostensibly its leader – is facing sentencing in the US, where he could receive up to 124 years. He is due to be sentenced in August. The sixth member of the group, who went by the online handle of "Avunit", has never been identified or arrested.In a campaign that began in May 2011, the group – who never physically met while they were active – hacked into the websites of media companies including Sony, News International, PBS and Fox, and of games and pornography companies. They also used "denial of service" attacks against the sites of the CIA and the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca), while taunting police and rival hackers who tried to identify them. Their exploits ended abruptly with the arrest in July 2011 of Davis in Shetland.The longest sentence was handed down to Cleary, who had always been thought of as peripheral to the group but provided a "botnet" of hundreds of thousands of PCs under his control to knock sites offline by flooding them with data. Taylor told Cleary that despite his diagnosis of Asperger's syndrome, "it's clear you did appreciate the harm being suffered by others" from attacks. "You suggested Soca [the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency] as a target." Cleary will be sentenced separately for the possession of 172 indecent images of children, found on his computer when he was arrested in June 2011.To Davis, Taylor said: "I take into account that financial gain was not your motivation. You were aware of what you were doing." He still faces the possibility of extradition to the US over offences committed while in LulzSec.Of Al-Bassam, who was 16 at the time of the group's exploits, the judge noted that "your role was to seek out vulnerabilities" but that "you played no role in the Soca attack." She accepted that he had withdrawn from LulzSec.Ackroyd, who joined the army at 19 and served for five years, played a higher-profile role in the attacks. Despite having only received a D grade in his computing GCSE, he taught himself to program so that he could beat the online games he played. He became increasingly adept, and was regarded as the best hacker in LulzSec.Taylor called him "a very adept looter" who "cut through high levels of security". She said, though: "Your motivation wasn't financial. You abused your learning in computers and were flattered by the attention you got online."For more than two months, the group's exploits – which sought to cause embarrassment rather than make financial gain – frustrated police and security companies. But the breakthrough came on 7 June, when Monsegur, known online as "Sabu", was captured by the FBI. From that point,  his communications were monitored, which is believed to have helped identify the locations of the others in the group.The attack on the Soca website came on 20 June; Cleary was arrested at 3.30am on 21 June. Al-Bassam was arrested on 19 July, and Davis on 27 July – at which point the LulzSec Twitter account, with nearly 350,000 followers, went silent. Ackroyd was arrested in September.Judge Taylor pointed out that the group published data including staff user names and passwords from News International, and that Davis wrote a story that was posted on the news organisation's web page suggesting Rupert Murdoch had committed suicide in the latter hack. "The offences were planned and persistent," she said. "The losses were substantial even if your motivation was not financial."But at least one of the group may benefit financially from its exploits. While it was active, it asked supporters to donate the virtual currency Bitcoin to an online address. At the time each Bitcoin was worth between $6 and $10, and Davis estimated that the group had about $18,000 donated by its supporters. If the coins were not spent, they would currently be worth hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Early in May 2011, Fox.com was targeted by a new hacking group which had been formed in private online chatrooms of the hacking collective Anonymous. They called themselves LulzSec – a contraction of "lulz", for laughs, and "security", which is what hackers like to compromise. The reason for the attack? Apparently because Fox.com had described a rapper called Common as "vile" on-air.The group discovered a weakness in the site, and used that to leak the profiles and names of 73,000 X Factor US contestants. "We don't like you very much. As such, we cordially invite you to kiss our hand-crafted crescent fresh asses," the group wrote in a message about the attack on Pastebin, the site that many hackers use to record their exploits.From there, the hackers moved on to hit multiple targets of varying fame: US broadcaster PBS, where they planted a fake story saying the dead rappers Tupac Shakur and Biggie Smalls were in fact alive and living in New Zealand. Later they hacked into games companies including Nintendo (though without success) and Bethesda Studios.They also attacked Sony's PlayStation Network, stealing 24.6 million customers' private data, and leading the company to take the network offline for days. They thought of themselves as "latter-day pirates" and boasted they were "gods" when they attacked a site.LulzSec's members never met in the real world; they were unaware of each others' identities. Some were based in the US, and some in the UK, pointing to the way that hacking too has become globalised.They knew each other's online "handles": Ryan Cleary, based in Wickford, Essex, was "Viral"; Jake Davis, from near Lerwick, Shetland, was "Topiary"; Mustafa Al-Bassam, in south London, was "Tflow"; Ryan Ackroyd, in Mexborough, South Yorkshire, was "Kayla", a former army recruit who pretended online to be a teenage girl based in the US in order to throw those trying to discover his identity off the scent. Their ostensible leader – by action if not name – was "Sabu", in reality New York-based Hector Xavier Monsegur, a Puerto Rican freelance programmer.Their intention, the court heard after some members were arrested, was just to gain attention, embarrass website owners and ridicule security measures. But by putting private information – including credit card details – online, the group caused problems that cost hundreds of thousands of pounds to fix. LulzSec's response was that sites that were so insecure they could be hacked in this way were a risk to the sites' customers.They also "phone bombed" companies, posting contact numbers publicly and encouraging their supporters to call – leading some support centres to report receiving up to 30 calls per minute.Not for profit?There's no sign they aimed to make profit directly from their activities as a group – although Monsegur, then 27, did have a sideline in using stolen credit card details to buy goods. The court heard Davis's computer had 750,000 items of stolen data when he was arrested, including passwords, credit card details and addresses, all of which could be used to make fraudulent purchases, though he was not charged with doing so.And as individuals, some did profit from what they were doing. Cleary had spent five years building up a "botnet" – where more than 100,000 Windows computers around the world had been infected with a virus which enabled him to use them without the owner's knowledge. Those, the court heard, were hired out for "several thousand pounds a month" to send out spam, host phishing sites and run "denial of service" attacks against websites.Cleary also pleaded guilty to possessing child abuse images – separate to his activities with LulzSec – which repeatedly expressed distaste for those who deal in "kiddie porn".However, Cleary wasn't a core member of the group; they used his services to attack sites such as Eve Online, Minecraft, League of Legends and the IT security company FinFisher, whose government-approved surveillance software had attracted the attention of Monsegur.In fact, it was Ackroyd who was the most skilled of the UK-based hackers, along with Bassam, then only 17. Davis, a quietly-spoken Scot who had had a difficult time at school, created the public face of the group: he co-ordinated activities and controlled the LulzSec Twitter account, which rapidly gained a huge following: by the time it made its last tweet – on 27 July 2011 – it had more than 340,000 followers, putting it well into the "celebrity" bracket.Its ethos was that of a group of teenagers running amok in a cyber-toyshop, seeing what they could take and break, while thumbing their nose at both the authorities and rival hackers trying to "dox" them – meaning get documents on them.The latter group combed through internet archives to try to find evidence that would tie their online handles to real-life identities. "Sabu" was wrongly identified as a man in Portugal; similarly incorrect identifications were made of "Topiary" (as a Swede).Beginning of the endThe group's downfall came over two days within a single week. The first was on 3 June, when it hit an FBI-affiliated site – almost certainly at Monsegur's urging – and knocked it offline. At that, two of the members – "recursion" and "devrandom" – quit the group. Chatroom logs from that periodobtained by the Guardianshow that Monsegur, as "Sabu", told the rest of the group: "You realise we smacked the FBI today. This means everyone in here must remain extremely secure."By hitting a government site, rather than a commercial one, LulzSec had made the stakes dangerously high, bringing itself to the attention of federal authorities in the US.Then on 7 June 2011, Monsegur, who usually took care to disguise his location by using the Tor system – which anonymises data connections – forgot to use it when logging into an Anonymous chat forum. The FBI spotted him and traced his connection back to his home on Manhattan's lower East Side. Soon after, agents showed up at his door. (The FBI was reportedly already after him via his Facebook profile, on the basis that he had been illicitly trading credit card details.)They offered him a stark choice: be arrested and remanded in jail, or co-operate. Monsegur, who had taken over parental care for his two nieces, then aged four and five, didn't want to see them go into foster care; he chose the latter. Arguably, the fate of Monsegur's two nieces decided the fate of LulzSec.After a week's silence, Monsegur came back online –but now the FBI was monitoring everything he did. Suddenly, things moved fast. On 20 June,LulzSec knocked the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) websiteoffline, apparently using Cleary's botnet. Now the authorities on both sides of the Atlantic were after them.At 3.30am on Tuesday 21 June, Cleary was arrested. Through the LulzSec Twitter account, Davis tweeted that Cleary wasn't a member of the group. The hacking went on – except now the authorities were gathering information about what was being done. The net began closing.On 19 July, Al-Bassam – "Tflow" – was arrested in London, his final tweet coming four days earlier, as hecomplainedhis phone's battery was running out.On 27 July, Davis – "Topiary" – was arrested. He appeared to know the end was near: on 22 July, he deleted all his tweets but a single one:"You cannot arrest an idea".While that's true, for the members of LulzSec, real-life arrest was all too possible. Ackroyd's followed in September. Cleary avoided extradition to the US, though the position of Davis is still unclear.
The last time I saw Justin Fletcher in the flesh, he was on the main stage at the Camp Bestival music festival, and I was in a crowd of thousands of parents with children on shoulders, bouncing to a Hi-NRG version of Happy And You Know It.He quite possibly drew the biggest crowd of the weekend, which is a sign of the regard held by children and parents alike for Fletcher. CBeebies shows like Something Special, Gigglebiz and Justin's House have made him a household name in the UK.Now he's launching his own series of iOS apps under the "Justin's World" brand, starting with an interactive retelling of Goldilocks &amp; The Three Bears, which is released tomorrow (17 May).The app blends animation, educational mini-games and live-action video of Fletcher himself, telling the story and gamely leaping about dressed up as Goldilocks herself. The app is aimed at preschool-age children, and will be followed by two more (at least) in the coming months.Fletcher and co-creator Allan Johnston met 12 years ago when working on children's TV show Tikkabilla, and then jointly came up with Something Special – the groundbreaking CBeebies show that prominently featured children with special needs, and used Makaton sign language."A few years ago, we wouldn't even be talking about doing an app. We'd probably be collaborating on a DVD or another TV format," says Fletcher, in an interview with The Guardian."I'm a bit antiquated when it comes to technology, but I'm astounded at the way children are now using apps from a very young age as a learning tool. It seems like a natural progression to explore that format."Johnston chips in: "The screen is changing from what we know as a television screen. It can be whatever you want to be: TV, computer, gaming device. That is the world the children are growing up with."The Goldilocks app stands out from most of the children's apps that are already available, and not just because it's fronted by a TV star. The video elements make it feel more televisual, with the plain-white backgrounds very reminiscent of the signing scenes in Something Special.That's a deliberate choice. "The key is the simplicity of the format. It's not too busy, there's no background and no distraction," says Fletcher."I wanted to take what we do on television to create that on the phone or tablet," says Fletcher. "I think we've achieved that: a huge amount of our audience are so young, so we didn't want to be too glitzy or too fast-paced."Johnston adds that the pair were keen from the start for parents to feel comfortable with the Justin's World apps, both in terms of their content and the way they make money – they're paid downloads with no in-app purchases or advertising."There are some lovely children's apps out there, but a lot of stuff too that's just there to make money," he says."Of course, we need to make a living out of it, but we wanted to make something meaningful, memorable and which also had value to it. We're very clear that if you buy the app, you have complete ownership of it rather than having to pay more. If we want to do something else, we'll create another app."Fletcher also says he's very keen to ensure the apps can be used by children and their parents together, rather than just the children: he doesn't see the iPad as a babysitting device.Johnston has some theories about how apps differ from TV shows in their educational value for children, based on his 12 years working in educational broadcasting.He explains a TV industry theory about how children learn: "Romance, precision and generalisation". By which he means they first get romantically engaged in a subject, then learn the precision – the nuts and bolts – before generalising into other areas, which leads on to other romances."Television was brilliant at the romance, but what it was really bad at was teaching the precision. In the linear model, if a child is thinking 'I don't quite understand…' you've already moved on," he says."But the precision is what apps are really good at. Here, we can romantically engage the child through the storytelling with Justin, and then get into those interactive moments to teach the precision."The educational content in the Goldilocks app is worn lightly, with an emphasis on learning through play rather than being hit over the head with tests and exercises."There wasn't even a discussion. It was taken as absolutely read that they would be of educational value," says Fletcher, with both men crediting their experience working with CBeebies as making this a given for every new project that they have started.Fletcher mentions his lack of technological expertise several times during the interview, but exploring apps is a logical move for someone who has become a bona-fide brand in his own right in the world of children's entertainment.He says he loves working with CBeebies, so this isn't an attempt to break free of traditional broadcasting. But it is another way – along with live shows – of making a direct connection with his young fans and their parents."CBeebies have been unbelievably supportive: I work for the BBC exclusively [on TV] and always have done. I'm very happy where I am. Children's television is a tough market, but I've established myself over a period of 18 or 19 years now," he says."And every five years you get a new audience, and can try to reinvent yourself. I never look at myself as a children's presenter. I'm a performer, an actor. I like to explore different worlds and formats."How much more exploration will he be doing with Justin's World apps? The first one is imminent, with the following two well on the way to release. Then Fletcher and Johnston will take stock."We're going to see how they go. We're both quite new to this platform," says Fletcher, who is keen not to rush any more apps at the expense of the quality of their content – not to mention the chance to learn from feedback on the first three."Even if it is successful, we aren't going to bust a gut to get more content out before it's ready. It's about the quality and integrity of the content," he says."It's a bit like an animated film. You can throw millions at it, but if it hasn't got the storyline and the heart, it won't do so well. That's certainly true of programme-making, and we think it may be true of apps and software too."
I work from home and also travel frequently on business. I have been imagining my ideal setup computer-wise, and think it would be just a tablet (one with a case that doubles as a keyboard), which I could carry around easily when necessary and then connect to a larger monitor, keyboard and mouse, and external storage when I am working at home. I could then live without a laptop or desktop.Which is most suitable for this kind of usage?From a work perspective, I fear the possible restrictions and compatibility problems that could arise if I go for anything other than Windows.I have an Android smartphone and would like to use Evernote etc on the tablet too, but I assume that the major app developers will be making versions of the most popular apps that also work in Windows.LeonThis is the sort of scenario for which Microsoft designed Windows 8 and made its own PC, the Microsoft Surface Pro. Indeed, it was also the idea behind tablets running Windows XP Tablet PC edition,launched with a fanfare at Comdex in 2001.The XP-based Tablet wasn't a success partly because there were no tablet apps: you just ran normal Windows programs, but controlled them with a pen (stylus) instead of your fingers. With Windows 8, Microsoft has added a touch-first tablet interface, along with a new applications programming interface (WinRT) and a new app distribution system, the Windows Store.The main advantage of the dual approach is that you can run all your old business programs, including Microsoft Office, under Windows 8, then instantly switch to running tablet apps with access to the same data. You don't need to sync anything or find some other way of transferring files between devices, though of course, you can still sync files to the cloud. Windows 8 is integrated with Microsoft's SkyDrive, which provides 7GB of free cloud storage, though you can use other services as well.CompromisesThere are, obviously, some compromises. "Detachables" — PCs where the tablet screen detaches from the keyboard/dock in the way pioneered by Asus's Android-based Transformer range — typically have 10in to 12in widescreens. This is on the small side for a laptop but on the large side for a tablet.There are similar compromises with weight and battery life. The Microsoft Surface Pro feels very small and light for a powerful PC with 4GB of memory and an Intel Core i5 processor, but it's big and heavy compared to an Asus Nexus 7, which runs Android on a 7in screen.Some people may prefer to have two separate devices, typically a larger laptop with a 13.3in or 15.6in screen and a smaller tablet with a 7in screen. That's what I have at the moment. However, having used a Surface Pro on loan for a couple of weeks, I think the compromise has more benefits than drawbacks.Patrick Moorhead, an analyst, shares my view: see his recent post at Forbes:Why I Prefer PC Convertibles Over Traditional Notebooks. Moorhead has tried systems over five different scenarios including desk, couch, bed, and in-flight use. In each scenario, he has performed 12 tasks (playing a game and a movie, reading and writing email, presentation and spreadsheet work etc) and rated each of them out of five between Poor and Great. Your 60 ratings may vary — as do mine — but his table (PDF)will give you a good idea of how it works.There are several cases where Moorhead remarks: "Helps to have mouse."Often the problem is that traditional Windows apps just weren't written for fat fingers. In such cases, I've found that the digitising pen that comes bundled with the Surface Pro can be a great substitute.It's as accurate as a mouse, and you can see its on-screen pointer without touching the pen to the screen. Unlike a mouse, it doesn't need any flat space. Also, you can write and draw with it, and it provides a much better experience than trying to write on an Apple iPad screen.Whether Microsoft's Surface Pro is your best choice is another matter.Surface Pro is a tablet, and its Touch and Type keyboards double as screen covers. The Asus Transformer, by contrast, is a laptop with a detachable screen, where the detached screen becomes the tablet. This gives manufacturers the chance to provide a better keyboard (basically the same as a laptop) and to include two batteries: one inside the tablet and one inside the keyboard/dock. The resulting hybrid is a bit bigger and heavier than a tablet, but you can get much more battery life. You also tend to get more ports.Intel Atom vs Core chipsThere are two basic classes of PC in this market, and they are roughly equivalent to Ultrabooks and netbooks. The Ultrabook-style devices have Intel Core iX processors, 4GB or more memory, and 64-bit Windows 8. Some models also have HD screen resolutions: perhaps 1920 x 1080 pixels instead of the common 1366 x 768. UK prices are relatively high, often over £1,000. The netbook-style devices have Intel Atom Z2760 and similar processors, 2GB or more memory, and 32-bit Windows 8. They provide much better battery life, and they're around half the price.The Atom-based models are, in my experience, surprisingly nippy, and they are quite capable of running Microsoft Office. They're a huge improvement on traditional netbooks. However, if you need to run heftier Windows programs such as Adobe Photoshop and Creative Suite, edit videos or play PC games, then you should go for a machine with a Core i3 or faster processor.I haven't seen enough of the different Windows 8 hybrids for long enough to have any strong recommendations, and better models are on the way. However, theAcer Iconia W510looks like a decent Atom-based detachable. It has a 10.1in screen, a claimed battery life of "up to 18 hours", and only weighs 1.2kg. The Amazon.co.uk price is just under £600, but shop around.TheHP Envy x2 11-g030ea (D0W48EA)is similar but has an 11.6in screen --which also enables a slighter larger keyboard — and a sturdy aluminium body. However, the battery life is worse and it costs a bit more at £699.99. (TheHP Envy x2 11-g000eastarted at £1,099.)For a high-end machine, theSamsung ATIV Smart PC Pro Elite 700Tis worth a look. It has an 11.6in screen and, like the Surface Pro, an Intel Core i5- 3317U processor, a Wacom digitising pen, and a 1920 x 1080 Full HD screen display. The inclusion of a 128GB SSD, instead of a 64GB drive, pushes the price up to £1,099.99.You should look at theLenovo IdeaPad Yoga 13as well. This is a 13.3in Ultrabook rather than a tablet, so you get a 1.9GHz Core i7-3517U with 4GB of memory, a 128GB SSD and a good keyboard for £999.99. Its party trick is that it has a double-joined hinge so you can fold the screen back to turn it into a tablet.Although the IdeaPad Yoga 13 is more of a work machine, the claimed battery life is good (8 hours), and it's not unduly heavy at 1.5kg.Docks and appsIf you want to connect any of these Windows 8 PCs to a keyboard, monitor and external hard drive then you will probably need aUSB docking station. For preference, both the PC and the dock should have USB 3.0 ports.ThePlugable USB 3.0 Universal Notebook Docking Station with DisplayLink DVI/VGAseems to be a popular option on Amazon.co.uk (I've not seen or used one myself). It supports monitors up to 2048 x 1152 pixels, so it should work with what you have now. It also includes a full-sized Ethernet port, which the Yoga 13 lacks.It's early days for Windows tablet apps, but the Windows Store has almost 150,000 so far. This includes Evernote for Windows 8. Watching Evernote'sYouTube demowill give you a good idea what it's like. If you don't fancy it, you can always use the PC version — pin it to the Windows 8 taskbar or create an icon on the desktop — or try the Microsoft OneNote app instead. (It's a free app, and different from the versions in Office and SkyDrive.)There are lots of different options with touch-screens that detach (Acer Iconia W510), flip (Dell XPS 12), rotate (Lenovo ThinkPad Twist) or slide up (Sony Vaio Duo 11), and the Asus TaiChi has two screens.If you can look at a few, you should be able to find one you like.
The internet has turned into amassive surveillance tool. We're constantly monitored on the internet by hundreds of companies -- both familiar and unfamiliar. Everything we do there is recorded, collected, and collated – sometimes by corporations wanting to sell us stuff and sometimes by governments wanting to keep an eye on us.Ephemeral conversation isover. Wholesale surveillance isthe norm. Maintaining privacy from these powerful entities is basically impossible, and any illusion of privacy we maintain is based either on ignorance or on our unwillingness to accept what's really going on.It's about to get worse, though. Companies such as Google may know more about your personal interests than your spouse, but so far it's been limited by the fact that these companies only see computer data. And even though your computer habits are increasingly beinglinkedto your offline behaviour, it's still only behaviour that involves computers.TheInternet of Thingsrefers to a world where much more than our computers and cell phones is internet-enabled. Soon there will be internet-connected modules on our cars and home appliances. Internet-enabled medical devices will collect real-time health data about us. There'll be internet-connected tags on our clothing. In its extreme,everythingcan be connected to the internet. It's really just a matter of time, as these self-powered wireless-enabled computers become smaller and cheaper.Lotshasbeenwrittenaboutthe"InternetofThings" and how it will change society for the better. It's true that it will make a lot of wonderful things possible, but the "Internet of Things" will also allow for an evengreateramountof surveillance than there is today. The Internet of Things gives the governments and corporations that follow our every move something they don't yet have:eyes and ears.Soon everything we do, both online and offline, will be recorded and stored forever. The only question remaining is who will have access to all of this information, and under what rules.We're seeing an initial glimmer of this from howlocation sensorson your mobile phone are being used to track you. Of course your cell provider needs to know where you are; it can't route your phone calls to your phone otherwise. But most of us broadcast our location information to many other companies whose apps we've installed on our phone. Google Maps certainly, but also a surprising number of app vendors who collect that information. It can be used to determine where you live, where you work, and who you spend time with.Another early adopter was Nike, whose Nike+ shoes communicate with your iPod or iPhone and track your exercising. More generally,medical devicesare starting to be internet-enabled, collecting and reporting a variety of health data. Wiring appliances to the internet is one of the pillars of thesmart electric grid. Yes, there are huge potential savings associated with the smart grid, but it will also allow power companies – and anyone they decide to sell the data to – to monitor how people move about their house and how they spend their time.Dronesare the another "thing" moving onto the internet. As their price continues to drop and their capabilities increase, they will become a very powerful surveillance tool. Their cameras are powerful enough to see faces clearly, and there are enough tagged photographs on the internet to identify many of us. We're not yet up to a real-time Google Earth equivalent, but it's not more than a few years away. And drones are just a specific application of CCTV cameras, which have been monitoring us for years, and will increasingly be networked.Google's internet-enabled glasses – Google Glass – are another major step down this path of surveillance. Their ability to record both audio and video will bring ubiquitous surveillanceto the next level. Once they're common, you might never know when you're being recorded in both audio and video. You might as well assume that everything you do and say will berecorded and saved forever.In the near term, at least, the sheer volume of data will limit the sorts of conclusions that can be drawn. The invasiveness of these technologies depends on asking the right questions. For example, if a private investigator is watching you in the physical world, she or he might observe odd behaviour and investigate further based on that. Such serendipitous observations are harder to achieve when you're filtering databases based on pre-programmed queries. In other words, it's easier to ask questions about what you purchased and where you were than to ask what you did with your purchases and why you went where you did. These analytical limitations also mean that companies like Google and Facebook will benefit more from the Internet of Things than individuals – not only because they have access to more data, but also because they have more sophisticated query technology. And as technology continues to improve, the ability to automatically analyse this massive data stream will improve.In the longer term, the Internet of Things means ubiquitous surveillance. If an object "knows" you have purchased it, and communicates via either Wi-Fi or the mobile network, then whoever or whatever it is communicating with will know where you are. Your car will know who is in it, who is driving, and what traffic laws that driver is following or ignoring. No need to show ID; your identity will already be known. Store clerks could know your name, address, and income level as soon as you walk through the door. Billboards will tailor ads to you, and record how you respond to them. Fast food restaurants will know what you usually order, and exactly how to entice you to order more. Lots of companies will know whom you spend your days – and nights – with. Facebook will know about any new relationship status before you bother to change it on your profile. And all of this information will all be saved, correlated, and studied. Even now, it feels a lot likescience fiction.Willyouknow any of this? Will your friends? It depends. Lots of these devices have, and will have, privacy settings. But these settings are remarkable not in how much privacy they afford, but in how much they deny. Access will likely be similar to your browsing habits, your files stored on Dropbox, your searches on Google, and your text messages from your phone. All of your data is saved by those companies – and many others – correlated, and then bought and sold without your knowledge or consent. You'd think that your privacy settings would keep random strangers from learning everything about you, but it only keeps random strangers whodon't pay for the privilege– or don't work for the government and have the ability to demand the data.Poweris what matters here: you'll be able to keep the powerless from invading your privacy, but you'll have no ability to prevent the powerful from doing it again and again.Bruce Schneier is a security technologist. His latest book is "Liars and Outliers: Enabling the Trust Society Needs to Thrive. He can be read atwww.schneier.com.
Nobody knows which was the first app to be downloaded from Apple's iPhone App Store on 11 July 2008, but the total number ofdownloads passed 50bnon Wednesday, signifying the rapid growth of a business created by the explosive spread of smartphones over the past five years.The person who downloaded the 50 billionth app will receive a $10,000 (£6,580) gift card. But that's small beer compared with the payouts to app developers that Apple has made since opening the store. In April it announced that developers have received $9bn (£5.9bn) in that time, pointing to a huge new economy that can now make teenagers into millionaires and create entire new business giants.Apple receives 30% of the revenue from app customers, meaning the company has made around $3.86bn from the app store.The Finnish company Rovio, which introduced its Angry Birds game to the App Store in December 2009, has since seen almost 2bn downloads worldwide on smartphones and tablets, while 17-year-old Londoner Nick D'Aloisiosold his company that makes the Summly app to web giant Yahooin March for an estimated £18m.Apps have also been used to create new sources of publicity by musicians such as Björk, and even Olympic athletes. Usain Bolt's app was downloaded millions of times last summer during the Olympics.But for developers, the growth of the App Store has brought its own problems. The sheer number of apps available has meant getting noticed has become essential to hitting the charts, and so making money; that $9bn paid to developers is very unevenly distributed, with the vast majority going to a comparatively small number of apps. The importance of making a splash with an app has led to schemes outside the store in which third-party companies offer to "buy" positions in the top-selling or most-downloaded app charts.Apple's insistence on taking 30% of any sales made through the App Store – including in-app purchases – has also led to clashes with large organisations, notably including Microsoft, which has declined to produce Office for the iPad, apparently because of disagreements about how to pay for it. The Financial Times also withdrew its app from the store in favour of a web version, protesting at the 30% rake and Apple's refusal to pass on details about subscribers.For Dave Addey, founder and managing director of the app development studio Agant in Leamington Spa, the arrival of apps has transformed his life. He tested the waters of Apple's App Store on its first day with a puzzle game callediDrops, priced at 59p. "It sold quite well, and taught me how the store worked and how to do app development work," he said. "Then I thought, 'what's the app that I really want to see?'"The result, in March 2009, was theUK Train Times app, which lets users find the times of trains from and between any station on the network using data from the Association of Train Operating Companies (Atoc). That has had more than 300,000 downloads, even at a price of £4.99.With close to 1 billion people using smartphones, and using them all the time, apps have begun to change how we think about computing, argues Addey. "Desktop software used to be complex and would do lots of things. Now we think of apps as doing one thing really well, but individually focused. They've also changed the perception of pricing for software." Where desktop software can cost anywhere from tens to hundreds of pounds, apps' prices are typically measured in tens of pence – or, frequently, are free.Horace Dediu, a former Nokia manager who now runs his own Asymco consultancy, says that Apple's own numbers show apps have become the largest part of customers' spending through the iTunes store – which also includes music, films, TV shows and books. Apps comprise 35% of that spending, despite being priced at or below the 79p typical of music tracks.He says that the growing number of accounts in app stores could also have a disruptive effect on other media types: "Whereas video, books and music are targeted to smaller user bases, apps are broadly consumed. Developers like Rovio or Supercell can offer their products to billions while TV producers can only hope for millions. Apps are becoming the universal medium for entertainment, and iTunes the universal distributor."Apple has been criticised by both developers and customers because every app that goes onto the store is first checked by the company's own team. Delays are commonplace – and can stretch to weeks at busy times.Apps have been rejected for what seem like trivial reasons (such as appearing to use an Apple name in the title) or, more egregiously, forallowing people to access nudityand forexpressing political views– which saw an app from a Pulitzer prize-winning cartoonist rejected (though later reinstated).Just as stunning have been some of the apps that have been let through - ranging from the fairly inoffensive, but trivial (such as "fart apps", which simply make a noise) – to one called Baby Shaker which encouraged the player toshake an onscreen babyto make it be quiet. "See how long you can endure his or her adorable cries before you just have to find a way to quiet the baby down!" said the blurb.With 800,000 apps to choose from on both Apple's and Google's store, the size and completeness of the stores have become an important weapon in the smartphone wars being fought between Apple, Google, Microsoft and BlackBerry. While Apple and Google vie for the largest and most lucrative stores – where Apple is reaping larger rewards, according to independent research – Microsoft's Windows Phone and BlackBerry still lack key apps such as the popular photo-sharing apps Instagram and Snapchat.That means that they are hobbled in trying to appeal to app-conscious, and socially active, teens. In addition, any money spent buying an app tends to tie the phone's owner more closely to the platform - which has led BlackBerry and Microsoft to offer financial incentives to developers to write apps.Apple wasn't the first to introduce an App Store - Nokia had that first - andSteve Jobs was initially against the idea of offering appson the iPhone. He feared that it would compromise its security and anger AT&amp;T/Cingular, then its only toehold in the mobile phone market: "Cingular doesn't want to see their West Coast network go down because some application messed up," he said after the introduction of the iPhone in January 2007. It took months of persuasion by Scott Forstall, then head of iPhone software, and Phil Schiller, Apple's head of marketing, to change his mind.But once Jobs had shifted position, the whole company moved – and developers poured through the doors, virtually speaking.
Google outstripped its arch-rival, Apple, with the launch of a subscription music streaming service on Wednesday while simultaneously mounting a threat to other providers such as Spotify.The service, labouring under the full name of Google Play Music All Access, was unveiled atGoogle I/O, the tech giant's annual developer conference in San Francisco, where delegates also heard about significant updates to its search and mapping services.Revealing the music service, Chris Yerga, Google's engineering director, said users would be able to stream from a vast library on any device, using the Android operating system. "This is radio without rules. It's as 'leanback' as you want to, or as interactive as you want to," said Yerga. Users will be able to search for an artist and add tracks to their library. A "listen now" feature will create a mix of favourite artists or genres based on previously listened-to songs.In the US, All Access will cost $9.99 a month after a 30-day free trial. Spotify Premium, a similar service, costs $9.99. Users who sign up by 30 June will get a reduced price of $7.99 per month. There was no immediate announcement of pricing in other territories. Google has signed licensing deals with music companies including Sony, Universal and Warner, and millions of songs will be available for the service, which will go live from Wednesday.The announcement comes as Apple considers its own music service. The tech giants have become increasingly interested in subscription services thanks to the popularity of Spotify, which has more than six million paying subscribers and more than 24 million active users in 28 countries.Geoff Taylor, chief executive of the UK-based BPI, which represents record labels, welcomed the announcement by Google. "Streaming is the fastest growing part of the £330m digital music sector in Britain," he said, "with more than a million paying subscribers already and millions more enjoying free and ad-supported music. The entry of a player with the reach of Google will persuade many more consumers to experience having millions of songs to play instantly on their phone, tablet or PC."Google's announcement was greeted with loud applause by developers in San Francisco, who began lining up to attend the sold-out Google I/O at 5am. Larry Page, the Google CEO,who has been suffering from a vocal-cords defect, made an unexpectedly long appearance at the conference,where he bemoaned the "negativity" which he believes is holding back the technology industry.The company revealed that more than 900 million devices using Android had now been activated, up from 400 million a year ago. Hugo Barra, vice-president of Android product management, said 48 billion Android apps had now been installed worldwide. The 900m figure does not include tens of millions of smartphones in China which also use Android's basic software – called "Android Open Source Platform" – but do not connect to Google's services, and so cannot contact its "activation" servers.Google unveiled new tools for developers including the ability to track people's physical activity when they are carrying an Android device, a move that will usher in a new generation of fitness applications.The company's search service also received an update. Saying "OK Google" to an Android device will now trigger a voice recognition system. Personal information like flight reservations, package deliveries and theatre bookings will be easier to find with the improved search service.Brian McClenden, Google's head of maps, said its mapping service had been rebuilt "from the ground up". Google Maps will pay greater attention to each individual's personal use of the maps, highlighting places they frequently visit and making suggestions for other venues. The maps will change as they are used. Clicking on a museum will highlight other museums in the area, and users' photos will also be displayed in the maps. The new functions will be rolled out in the coming months.
MPs are ready to haul Amazon back to parliament to answer new questions about its tax status in Britain after a Guardian investigation's findings suggest the online retailer is pushing the tax rulebook to its limits to minimise its tax bill.Company filings showed Amazon's main UK company paid just £3.2m in corporation tax on sales of £320m last year. However, the Seattle-based group has told investors its 2012 UK sales were £4.2bn.The Guardian investigation has found Amazon pushing definitions close to breaking point; and tax authorities unable, or unwilling, to prevent the imposition of aggressive tax avoidance structures.Information collected by the Guardian details extensive UK activities that suggest HM Revenue and Customs could take a much tougher line on taxing Amazon's multibillion-pound British operations.Among the key indicators of whether a business is taxable in the UK is the location of those negotiating deals. A UK publishing executive confirmed that his contract was negotiated on behalf of Amazon EU Sarl, the Luxembourg company, by staff from the British head office in Slough."The contract may be with Luxembourg but it is the people from Slough who thrash out the crucial details of the contract such as the discount we agree to give them. There are also people in Slough who are charged with overseeing that the contract is properly executed," the executive said.Meanwhile, job adverts posted this month on the careers page of Amazon.co.uk invite application for scores of roles in the UK. Among them is a vacancy for a senior financial analyst. "Based at our UK Head Office in Slough, Amazon seeks a Senior Financial Analyst to support Amazon UK's Merchant Services business," the advert said."This Senior Financial Analyst will help establish revenue targets, lead pricing analysis and recommendations, generate competitive analysis and support key operations metrics and goals."The Slough office is also this month looking for applicants to its MBA leadership development programme in the UK. "From day one, you will be given ownership of large, complex problems in various areas of our business," the advert states.Despite booking a tax charge of just £3.2m in its UK accounts for 2012, Amazon received £2.5m in government grants as well as significant tax breaks for building new warehouses. It opened a new site at Hemel Hempstead in September.The company would pay much more tax if its sales were booked through a UK business but they are all routed through Luxembourg. Altogether it has taken £12bn from online shoppers in the UK in the last four years.Amazon avoids paying many tens of millions of pounds in tax because it tells the taxman its main UK-focused business, which collects revenue from British shoppers but is incorporated in Luxembourg, cannot be classed as a "permanent establishment" in Britain.Amazon has a permanent establishment in the UK that operates the warehouses and provides "corporate support services" to the wider group. Despite employing 4,191 staff – and an additional 10,000 temporary workers to cope with the Christmas rush – it had a tax bill for 2012 of just £3.2m because British shoppers are invoiced from Luxembourg.Margaret Hodge, chair of the public accounts committee, said: "My committee has real concerns about the extent to which companies like Amazon are stretching the rules in order to avoid paying their fair share in tax."By any measure of common sense Amazon appears to have a proper established presence in the UK, and that there is a discrepancy between some of the evidence in this report about its activities in the UK and what the committee was told by Amazon when they appeared before us last year. We will now consider whether we need to recall them to explain that discrepancy."Six months ago Amazon told Hodge's committee: "All the strategic functions for our business in Europe [including the UK] are based in Luxembourg. That could be our retail business, our third-party business, our transportation teams, our customer service, HR, finance."UK staff, the company added, only offered "support" to these activities.Hodge has recalled the UK boss of Google and the head of tax at Ernst &amp; Young, the accountancy firm which advises Google and Amazon, to answer new questions raised about the search firm's low tax bill. The recall was prompted by a Reuters investigation which focused on Google's claim its UK-revenues were not part of a taxable British business.The Reuters investigation highlighted the extent of Google's business activities in the UK in the same way as the Guardian focus on Amazon.David Cameron has promised to address many tax issues raised by multinational groups, in particular digital businesses at the G8 meeting in Northern Ireland next month. This week at a joint news conference with President Obama, Cameron pledged to "tackle the scourge of tax evasion" by multinational companies in his role as president of the G8. International advisers are drawing up new rules to crack down on digital businesses finding legal ways around "permanent establishment" definitions.The Guardian's investigation into the rules on permanent establishment involved looking at HMRC manuals, international double taxation treaties dating back to the 1960s, and guidelines for tax treatments of multinational businesses set out by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.Hodge said: "Part of the problem is that this is a ridiculously complex issue. HMRC has got to get much tougher in policing the system, but we also need to simplify our tax system so that companies cannot keep exploiting these grey areas."Ernst &amp; Young have already acknowledged that these rules are broken. Many of these rules were drawn up before the internet revolutionised the way people shop, and did not foresee a new generation of tax structure engineering made possible.Asked by MPs on this point, Dixon of E&amp;Y said: "This gets to the OECD [the international body which sets tax guidelines] difficulty that we are in at the moment. The situation is that a warehouse of itself is not a permanent establishment. An internet-based business, where essentially the website and servers are based outside the UK, is also not a UK permanent establishment. The OECD needs to look carefully at whether these rules need to change."The exclusion for warehouses, such as Amazon's eight distribution centres, is contained in the double taxation treaty the UK negotiated with Luxembourg in 1966. Amazon.co.uk is registered to a Luxembourg company, Amazon Europe Holding Technologies SCS, and the site runs off the group's servers in Ireland.Tax officials refused to comment directly on Amazon, but told the Guardian: "HMRC ensures that multinationals pay the tax due in accordance with UK tax law and in doing so we apply the permanent establishment rules correctly and consistently to all businesses"An Amazon spokesman said: "Amazon pays all applicable taxes in every jurisdiction that it operates within. Amazon EU serves tens of millions of customers and sellers throughout Europe from multiple consumer websites in a number of languages dispatching products to all 27 countries in the EU. We have a single European headquarters in Luxembourg with hundreds of employees to manage this complex operation."• This article was amended on 16 May 2013 to clarify the 17th paragraph, whose original version said 'UK staff, he added, were only offered "support" to these activities.'
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle I/O: the liveblog &gt;&gt; Guardian TechnologyAmanda Holpuch at the keyboard, with Dominic Rushe checking the audience for Jon Hamm sightings.Samsung captures 95% share of global Android smartphone profits in Q1 2013 &gt;&gt; Strategy AnalyticsNeil Shah, Senior Analyst at Strategy Analytics, said, "We estimate the global Android smartphone industry generated total operating profits of US$5.3bn during Q1 2013. The Android platform accounted for 43% share of the entire smartphone industry's operating profits, which reached US$12.5bn worldwide in the first quarter of this year."94.7% of Android profits to Samsung; 2.5% to LG (equivalent to about $310m). And about the same amount shared among all the other vendors.The Windows Phone app problem &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson:Let's start with Banking and ask a very simple question.  Of the Top-10 banks in the U.S. how many have apps available for Windows Phone?  Three.  And one of those is just for its credit cards.  Want to guess how many of those banks have apps in the Apple App Store?  All ten.You might think this is just a banking problem, but it is anything in finance.  Windows Phone has apps for Zero of the Top-10 Mutual Fund companies.  Seven of those companies provide apps for the iPhone.  How about if you just want to do research on mutual funds?  Sorry, you'll need an iPhone, Android Phone, or Blackberry for that.Moving on, how many of the Top-10 US Airlines have apps for Windows Phone?  Three.  For the iPhone it is eight.Now the truth is I was going to do this for several more categories but it is too depressing for me to continue.Like to see the stats for banks, airlines and so on in the UK.Google to Samsung: Thanks for the cool phone, now we've fixed it &gt;&gt; CITEworldMatt Rosoff:Beginning on June 26, Google will start selling through the Google Play store a version of the Samsung Galaxy S4 that basically strips all the Samsung-specific features out of it.Instead, it ships with the latest version of Android - 4.2.2., a recent update to Android "Jelly Bean" - and the "Nexus experience" that shipped on the Nexus 4, which was manufactured by HTC, last fall. The phone is unlocked, so users can switch carriers, and "bootloader unlocked," which means users can easily install their own software on it. And Google promises that it will push the latest updates of Android to it as they come out.Sounds great, right?But you'll pay for the privilege - because it's unlocked, there's no carrier subsidy, which means users have to pay the full smartphone price of $649.In other words, this is a phone for Android fans and developers who want cutting-edge hardware combined with the latest, most Google-friendly version of Android. Not a consumer product.Thorsten Heins: the only exec in the mobile biz that gets post-PC &gt;&gt; ZDNetMatthew Baxter-Reynolds:On the one hand, you have a CEO who seems to understand ideas around the death of the PC, relationship-centric computing, post-PC, etc., but seems keen to actively avoid pushing his vision into the tablet space. If tablets are going to be replaced by some modular computing doodad or doodads, surely [BlackBerry CEO Thorsten] Heins would like to be the one to tell everyone how it would be done?But there isn't any leadership from Heins in this direction. I get that marketing is complex and it's not a good thing to confuse, but if Heins is talking with authority about the tablet going away, surely it would be a good idea for him and his team to set the tone of that discussion with more clarity.Heins seems to simultaneously understand post-PC (that the desktop stops being the dominant way to do computing) and to not get it (you need more and discrete devices).Taiwan tries to regain its lead in consumer electronics &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comAs notebooks and other Windows-based PCs have lost ground, first to Apple tablets and now to Android-based designs, even Microsoft has been indicating dissatisfaction with the pace of PC innovation in Taiwan. Despite a longtime aversion to hardware, Microsoft recently introduced its own Surface tablet."The Surface tablet is a pretty strong signal to the whole Taiwan PC ecosystem that they're not innovating enough," said Bill Whyman, a senior managing director at the ISI research firm.One exception to Taiwan's difficulties is Asus. Its many new Android-based tablets, including one that it has branded with Google, allowed it to surpass Amazon in the first quarter of this year to become the third-largest player in the global tablet computer market, behind Apple and Samsung, according to IDC.The self-criticism within Taiwan seems to be that "we do not pursue a perfect solution; we pursue a good enough solution."PC market in western Europe declined 20.5% in first quarter of 2013 &gt;&gt; GartnerPC shipments in Western Europe totaled 12.3m units in the first quarter of 2013, a decline of 20.5% from the corresponding period of 2012, according to Gartner."The first quarter of 2013 brought the worst quarterly decline in Western Europe since Gartner started tracking PC shipments in this region," said Meike Escherich, principal research analyst at Gartner. "Wide availability of Windows 8-based PCs could not boost consumer PC purchases during the quarter. Although the new Metro-style user interface suits new form factors, users wonder about its suitability for traditional PCs — non-touchscreen desktops and notebooks."All PC segments in Western Europe exhibited year-on-year declines in the first quarter of 2013. Mobile and desktop PC shipments fell by 24.6% and 13.8%, respectively. Shipments to the professional PC market declined by 17.2%, while those to the consumer PC market decreased by 23.7%.So the consumer market declined more than the professional, and the mobile sector by more than the desktop. Only Lenovo and Apple grew sales in absolute terms - and barely at all even then.As of today, every major mobile competitor... also makes apps for iOS &gt;&gt; iMore.comRene Ritchie:every single one of Apple's major mobile competitors now makes apps for iOS. Google, who also has Android, makes many very popular apps including Gmail, Maps, Google+, etc. Microsoft, who also has Windows Phone, makes a bunch of apps and games for iOS, including OneNote and Kinnectimals. Nokia, Microsoft's primary Windows Phone partner, also makes Here Maps.Now, BlackBerry makes BBM.Apple, by contrast, makes precisely nothing for Android, Windows Phone, or BlackBerry. Not even iTunes.It would be fascinating to see this as a grid. (Also perhaps "platform competitors" would be better.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Just ahead of its March 2013 publication date, a modest hardback print run of a new novel, Traps, under the Weidenfeld &amp; Nicholson imprint, spilled off the production line at theClays book plant, a near-200-year-old business in the Suffolk market town of Bungay.The plant has a reputation for quality that has helped it hold on to more trade than some of its competitors in a shrinking market. This is where the majority of the UK's bestselling titles are pressed.Traps' first run represents a small fraction of 170m books freshly minted at Clays each year. Other titles printed and bound at Clays here have included works by Stieg Larsson and JK Rowling.Boxed up alongside other titles, copies of Traps were swiftly dispatched, some to the warehouse of Orion Publishing, the firm behind the imprint, others direct to Waterstones' dstribution hub or an Amazon warehouse. Clays lorries make daily trips to all eight of Amazon's UK warehouses.The visits to Amazon depots are so frequent because online book orders now account for 41% of the £1.8bn market for books in the UK, according to data from research firm Kantar. Publishers typically negotiate contracts with Amazon representatives from the firm's offices in Slough, according to one industry source.Set over just four days, Traps is about four women in contrasting circumstances. As the dustjacket explains: "How their fates collide – and how that collision offers each of them a chance at redemption and renewal".  It carries a recommended retail price for the UK of £12.99. It is on sale for that price in Foyles bookshop.The book is also available on Amazon.co.uk, where shoppers are reminded of the £12.99 RRP, though that price is crossed through and compared with Amazon's price of £8.96: "You save: £4.03 (31%)", says the website. The price includes delivery and the book will land on the doormat in two days' time.Traps' author, MacKenzie Bezos – described by her former professor, the author Toni Morrison, as "one of the best students I've ever had in my creative-writing classes" – is pictured on the inside flap of the dustjacket, at the back of the book, above a short biography. It is her second novel, after The Testing of Luther Albright, for which she won an American Book award in 2006. "MacKenzie Bezos was raised in San Francisco and graduated from Princeton University. She lives in Seattle, Washington, with her husband and their four children." Her husband is not named, but he is Jeff Bezos, the 49-year-old founder of Amazon (pictured below with Mackenzie), whose 19% stake in the world's largest online retailer puts him at number 19 on Forbes' rankings of the world's richest people, with a  fortune estimated at $25.2bn. In 1995, he quit his job with a New York hedge fund, where he met MacKenzie, and moved to Seattle to start a web business from his home, selling books by post.Today, books represent only a small fraction of Amazon's $61bn sales, more than 10% of which come from UK customers. However, although Amazon tells investors in the US that $6.48bn (£4.17bn) is "attributed to" the UK, there is no evidence of sales to online shoppers in Britain to be found in the official accounts for Amazon.co.uk Ltd at Companies House.The website of the same name is in fact registered to Amazon Europe Holding Technologies SCS, a company in Luxembourg. Meanwhile, the small print on receipts enclosed along with copies of every item sold by Amazon in the UK identify the seller as a second Luxembourg company, Amazon EU Sarl. As odd as it sounds, any online shopper in Britain buying Traps from Amazon is creating a sale for the internet group in Luxembourg. And it is there that any resulting profit is taxed. Accounts published yesterday show the Luxembourg company with revenues of more than £11bn and a tax bill of just £1.8m.The arrangement is altogether more straightforward if a customer buys Traps from Foyles. The 110-year-old high-street bookshop chain will recognise the sale through the accounts of W&amp;G Foyle, a company registered in Charing Cross Road, London. The latest filings show annual sales of £23.4m. It made a profit of £152,552, and there is a corporation tax charge to HMRC for the year of £72,670.Traps has been printed in the UK, shipped to UK warehouses and sold to UK customers, but whether it generates any income for the exchequer depends entirely on where it is bought.If sales of MacKenzie Bezos' book do well for Foyles, the business will post higher profits and pay more tax.But if readers instead buy the book on Amazon, the HMRC's corporation tax receipts will be that little bit poorer.UK and Luxembourg armsAmazon.co.uk Limited• A UK company • Does not own the website of the same name • Runs eight UK warehouses with plans for three more• Employs 4,191 staff• 2012 revenue: £320m• 2012 tax in the UK: £3.2m• Cash in the bank: £6,000Amazon EU Sarl• A Luxembourg company• Invoices UK customers for goods – although bills are printed and dispatched from the UK• Employs 380 staff• 2012 revenue: £11.3bn (£4.2bn from UK)• 2012 tax: £1.8m.• Cash in the bank: £2.2bn
The Google co-founder Larry Page spoke out on Wednesday about the "negativity" he believes is holding back the technology industry, a day after revealing that he has been suffering from a rare vocal-cord condition that has made it difficult for him to speak.In a raspy voice, Page told the audience atthe internet giant's annual developers conference, Google I/O, that he believed a lack of cooperation between tech partners was holding back progress. "Today we are still just scratching the surface of what's possible," he told the conference in San Francisco.Page blamed a "focus on negativity and zero-sum games" for the industry's failure to achieve its full potential. He said: "I've been sad that the industry hasn't been able to advance those things."Computers were slow, the web was not advancing as fast as it should be and big technology companies were not co-operating enough, he said. "I think it's kind of sad we have all these computers out there that are connected to each other by a tiny, tiny, tiny pipe that's super slow."Page named the tech giant Oracle as one of the roadblocks to faster progress. "Money is more important to them" than having any kind of cooperation, he said.The two companies have clashed repeatedly over patents.Page said he was excited about Google's developments in driverless cars, maps, music andGoogle Glass, the company's controversial new headset device. He said people had said Google was "crazy" to diversify from its core search product, but he cited the success of Gmail and said: "Every time we tried to do something crazy we made progress. So we've become a bit emboldened by that."Last year, Page missed Google's annual shareholders meeting in June and a conference call to discuss the company's quarterly earnings in July. He did not appear at last year's Google I/O. The absences had caused concern among investors, some of whom were concerned that Google was not giving them the full picture about his health, in the same way that the late Apple boss Steve Jobs had initially hidden his illness from the public.On his Google+ profile Page, 40, said his left vocal cord has been paralysed for 14 years, after he had suffered a severe cold. The condition worsened last year, after another cold impaired his right vocal cord."While this condition never really affected me – other than having a slightly weaker voice than normal which some people think sounded a little funny – it naturally raised questions in my mind about my second vocal cord. But I was told that sequential paralysis of one vocal cord following another is extremely rare," Page wrote. "Fast forward to last summer, when the same pattern repeated itself – a cold followed by a hoarse voice. Once again things didn't fully improve, so I went in for a check-up and was told that my second vocal cord now had limited movement as well. Again, after a thorough examination, the doctors weren't able to identify a cause."Concerns about Page's condition eased last October, when he took questions during Google's earnings call. Page has spoken in each of Google's three earnings calls since the one he missed. He provided further reassurance in Tuesday's post."Thankfully, after some initial recovery I'm fully able to do all I need to at home and at work, though my voice is softer than before," he wrote.Google's stock rose as the conference got under way, by more than 2% to more than $980 a share on Wednesday afternoon. Google shares have risen by 50%since Page replaced Eric Schmidt as chief executive, in April 2011.Page, who owns Google stock worth about $22bn, has made a donation to Boston's Voice Health Institute. He did not disclose the size of the donation but said it was large enough to support a "significant" research program that will be led by Dr Steven Zeitels from the Harvard Medical School and the Massachusetts General hospital voice centre.
3.51pmETSummaryAfter three hours and 30 minutes of mapping, hotwording and fake Jon Hamm sightings,Google&apos;s annual I/O developer conferencehas come to an end. Here is a summary of Google&apos;s major announcements:•Google Play Music All Access:The company finallyunveiled its much-anticipated music streaming service.The service will be available for $9.99 a month in the US, though everyone gets a free 30-day trial.•Google+:As part of Google&apos;s continued efforts to make its social network a success, the company unveiled a redesign that bears a striking resemblance to Pinterest but utilizes Google&apos;s search dominance. The announced changes are being rolled out this afternoon.• Google Now:The company showed off its Siri competitor which allows Chrome users to voice command searches. Google calls this &quot;hotwording&quot;.• Larry Page:Google&apos;s CEO took the unusual move of answering audience questions after expressing his sadness about slow development – and gender inequality – in the tech industry.•New Android APIs:Google executives unveiled a multitude of APIs that promise to streamline app development and increase app functionalities.Todd Grinsted, a product manager at The Guardian, has lots of insightful commentary on these changes for the developer-minded.•Google Glass:While many testers were in the audience, there were suprisingly no presentations on the wearable computer, and CEO Larry Page deflected an audience question on it to Sergey Brin, who was nowhere to be seen.3.35pmETIt's overNow aBurning Man artistis speaking. This is interesting.The artist asked about the lack of women in technology. &quot;I&apos;m looking around, and I don&apos;t see a lot here,&quot; he said.Page said if more women were in the industry it would &quot;more than double the rate of progress&quot;.And it&apos;s over. Its actually over. After three hours and 30 minutes of Google developer news, the 2013 I/O keynote has come to an end.3.29pmETDefinitive statement from Dominic Rushe:it&apos;s not Hamm.Lot of excitement that John Hamm is up asking next q at#os13. It's not Hamm, yummy tho.&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)May 15, 2013Really, though, the resemblance was striking, right?brb gift shop#io13twitter.com/tracegilton/st…&mdash; Trace Gilton (@tracegilton)May 15, 2013Updatedat 3.33pm ET3.28pmETLarry Page is still answering questionsThis is actually a refreshing and intriguing Q&amp;A, but after athree-hour marathon Google commercial, people are losing interest.&quot;Fifty years from now or something, hopefully our software understands what you are knowledgeable about, what you are not knowledgeable about,&quot; Page said. He said this can help solve the world&apos;s problems – like global poverty.While Page might seem rather depressed, he said he &quot;couldn&apos;t be more optimistic&quot; because he believes in the power of software developers to solve the world&apos;s problems.Fun fact:Larry Page really lovesthe Burning Man festival.(Burning Man lasts a full week, by the way.)3.20pmETThe conference was supposed to end 20 minutes ago, but no one is brave enough to escortworld-weary Google CEO Larry Pageoff the stage.Page just said Google is great for helping you find &quot;the craziest person in any area&quot;.He also deferred a question on Google Glass, which was unexpectedly not discussed at the conference, to Google co-founder Sergey Brin, who is not around.Fake Jon Hamm still has not asked his question.Larry Page, ladies and gentlemen. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesUpdatedat 3.26pm ET3.18pmETOver on Twitter, things are getting a bit punchy as this keynote goes on (and on and on):@jsnellYou're going to miss Jon Hamm's question.&mdash; Craig Hockenberry (@chockenberry)May 15, 20133.10pmETPagejust said – multiple times – that he is sad about the state of technology and the technology industry. &quot;The web is probably not advancing as fast as it should it be,&quot; Page said.Page is also sad because most computers are slow and not very useful. &quot;I think its kind of sad we have all these computers out there that are connected to each other by a tiny, tiny, tiny pipe that&apos;s super slow,&quot; Page said.A man who looks a lot like Jon Hamm and is wearing an Android hat is waiting to ask Page a question. Guardian correspondentDominic Rusheis investigating whether or not it is indeed Hamm. (It&apos;s probably not, but we can dream, right?)Looks like Jon Hamm lost a bet.twitter.com/gruber/status/…&mdash; John Gruber (@gruber)May 15, 2013Updatedat 3.32pm ET3.03pmETQuestion time with Larry PageLarry Page is now having people line up and ask him questions. This is unusual.Blogger Robert Scoble made it to the front of the line. Scoble wore Google Glass in the shower, and there is a picture to prove it. Page said he does not appreciate the picture.Oh no @scobelizeris speaking. PLEASE don't get naked.#io13twitter.com/dominicru/stat…&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)May 15, 20132.56pmETLarry Page!Google CEO Larry Pagehas made it to the stage, with a giant spinning, illuminated globe behind him.Page announced on Tuesdaythat he has been suffering from vocal paralysis. He is still able to speak at the conference, though his voice is clearly affected by the condition.&quot;Every story I read about is Google versus some other company,&quot; Page says. He adds those articles are stupid.&quot;Being negative is not how we make progress,&quot; Page said. &quot;Most things are not zero sum.&quot;2.51pmETThe Guardian&apos;s Dominic Rushewitha story on Google&apos;s new music streaming service: All Access.Google launched a streaming music service Wednesday, taking aim at online music companies like Spotify and setting another challenge for arch rival Apple.The service, whose full name is the somewhat cumbersome Google Play Music All Access, was unveiled at Google I/O, the tech giant&apos;s annual developer conference. Chris Yerga, Google&apos;s engineering director, said users would be able to stream music from a vast library on any device using the Android operating system.In the US, All Access will cost $9.99 a month after a 30-day free trial. Spotify Premium, a similar service, costs $9.99 in the US. Users who sign up by June 30 will get a reduced price of $7.99 per month. There was no immediate announcement of pricing in other territories.&quot;This is radio without rules. It&apos;s as &apos;leanback&apos; as you want to, or as interactive as you want to,&quot; said Yerga. Users will be able to search for an artist and add tracks to their library. A &quot;listen now&quot; feature will create a mix of favourite artists or genres based on previously listened to songs.2.47pmETTom Grinsted, aGuardian project manager and design fan,is excited. More of his expert analysis on Google&apos;s new designs:A quick aside about all of the designs that we&apos;ve been seeing today. It&apos;s been happening for a while, but seeing Google&apos;s design language growing up and becoming homogenous across platforms and products feels like the mark of a company that&apos;s really coming to understand that they&apos;re a consumer brand, with exacting consumers and exacting competitors. Personally I really like Google&apos;s matured designs, and I know that some people aren&apos;t overly keen on it, but either way it&apos;s clear that they&apos;re pulling everything together with the aim that you&apos;ll know you&apos;re using a Google service, no matter where you are. The days of disparate experiences, where Gmail looked different depending on the platform, or where Maps and Now felt like they came from different companies, is definitely coming to an end. This is most obvious in the new maps demo we&apos;ve just been seeing.And bloody hell, those 3D photo maps look nice. Something that looks a bit like combining Apple&apos;s 3D maps with Microsoft&apos;s Photosynth.Updatedat 2.57pm ET2.40pmETGoogle Maps“Remember the first time you used Google Maps? Imagine that same feeling, again. We’ve been working on something that we believe is just that.”Apparently, Google Maps has been completely rebuilt: &quot;from the ground up.&quot;Now, if you want to find a sushi restaurant in a certain location, you can filter based on friend recommendations, look inside the restaurant and get more in-depth information on the location usingGoogle&apos;s relationship with Zagat.2.27pmETMcClendon is reminding us thatGoogle Mapshas a fleet of cars that take pictures of you all over the world.He then went on to show off a user-generated Google Map of North Korea: &quot;full of streets and points of interest.&quot;Also, yes, if you&apos;re wondering Google has made a joke about their maps being accurate (or not), mocking themuch-publicized issues people have had with Apple&apos;s map app.2.21pmETGoogle Maps wizardBrian McClendon has taken the stage.The Guardian&apos;sDominic Rushe,who is at the conference,interviewed McClendon in December 2012.Today McClendon is Google&apos;s Mr Maps – presiding over one of the fastest-growing areas in the search giant&apos;s business, one that has recently left arch-rivalApplered-faced and threatens to make Google the most powerful company in mapping the world has ever seen.Google is throwing its considerable resources into building arguably the most comprehensive map ever made. It&apos;s all part of the company&apos;s self-avowed mission is to organize all the world&apos;s information, says McClendon.&quot;You need to have the basic structure of the world so you can place the relevant information on top of it. If you don&apos;t have an accurate map, everything else is inaccurate,&quot; he says.2.18pmETHotwording&quot;I have never triedhotwordingin a room with so much ambient noise,&quot; said Google&apos;s vice-president of Search and Assist for Mobile, Johanna Wright.She just planned her next trip to Santa Cruz, California, withGoogle Now,down to whether or not her children are tall enough to ride the boardwalk&apos;s famous Giant Dipper rollercoaster.Which raises the question: what is Apple CEO Tim Cook asking Siri right now?2.08pmETGoogle&apos;s improved searchwill let you search &quot;what&apos;s my upcoming flight&quot; and then find related emails and calendars so you don&apos;t have to go through the stressful scrolling and clicking process.This is incredibly similar to Apple&apos;s Siri. On all platforms that use Chrome, people will be able to say &quot;Okay, Google,&quot; and request information.@jeffjarvis"Shutup, Glass, I'm talking to my laptop."#io13.&mdash; Jared Goralnick (@technotheory)May 15, 2013Updatedat 2.09pm ET2.06pmETGuardian product managerTom Grinstedhas in-depth analysis on Google&apos;s new photo features.Image analysis automatically hashtagging photo posts. It&apos;s very interesting seeing tech that Google&apos;s been sitting on for a while (image search has been available for a year or two) coming together. This kind of tech makes me a bit cross-eyed in how simple it is conceptually, but how impressive it is technically. Again, having this happen automatically could be quite off-putting at times – I for instance often choose NOT to tag stuff in photos, for privacy or discoverability reasons. So it&apos;s good to see that they&apos;re putting it in as an option which users can disable or override. I think that it&apos;ll be on by default though. So, very clever, very useful, but could be disconcerting.Machine learning is now &quot;accounting for aesthetics&quot; – which Google are using to auto-suggest your best photos for sharing. I did a philosophy degree, and this is conceptually fascinating for so many reasons. At its heart, the question of aesthetic worth is absolute or relative. Do I feel the same about what&apos;s beautiful as the &quot;hundreds of human reviewers&quot; that contributed to the new algorithims? This is maybe even more interesting when we look at Google&apos;s new photo auto-enhance feature that apparently makes photos better (including what feels a bit like auto-airbrushing people).Updatedat 2.58pm ET2.03pmET“The end of search as we know it.”It&apos;s “the end of search as we know it,” says Amit Singhal, Google&apos;s senior vice-president and software engineer. He did not say whether or nothe also feels fine.Singhal is explaining how Google is changing its search service to create a search experience that will &quot;answer, converse and anticipate&quot;.2.00pmETGundotra said Google has beensecretly GIF-ing photoson your Google account. He said this will be publicly available this afternoon.This is part of the &quot;auto-awesome&quot; photo feature, which can also make similar photos panoramic.Updatedat 2.00pm ET1.56pmET&quot;Let&apos;s talk aboutskin-softening,&quot; says Vic Gundotra, Google&apos;s senior vice-president of engineering.He keeps using the phrase &quot;skin-softening&quot; to explain the program&apos;s auto-enhance photo editing features – all I can think about is Silence of the Lambs.1.51pmET&quot;Photography can be a very rewarding experience.&quot; Today&apos;s transitional speech tactic is mundane platitudes, apparently. Now Google&apos;s talking about new features in its photography services.&quot;Your darkroom is now a data center.&quot;Google will offer a service that streamlines the process of uploading a collection of vacation photos. The feature will automatically highlight bad and good photos and filter out duplicates. The filtering program uses traditional human aesthetics to determine what pictures stay and go. It will also filter pictures based on &quot;affinity&quot;, so your children can know which one you love more without you ever having to tell them.1.50pmETMore Hangout features –Google has always felt that conversations are best done &quot;face to face to face.&quot; So they offer a mobile group video feature with no charge.1.43pmETNow for theHangoutupdate. They are explaining how Google+ uses circles to group your contact because, according to a comforting slide, in real life you don&apos;t have &quot;friends&quot; &amp; &quot;not friends&quot;.The Hangout changes are intended to focus on &quot;what makes people happiest: just hanging out&quot;.This is best accomplished by contacting your friends on Google+, apparently.1.39pmET#Google+ updatesThe newGoogle+will have a design that looks quite similar to the clean, multi-column display of Pinterest. The difference is you can flip the content boxes.The company is also going to add #hashtags to your content.This actually looks like a good use of the site&apos;s search engine and referral power, because users can click through the basic content posts to discover more information about the topic another user is posting about.These changes are going to be rolled out this afternoon.1.36pmETNow forGoogle+updates. Since the social network has still failed to gather as strong a user base as other social networks, Google emphasized the Hangout feature in the preview video. The message seems to be Barack Obama, Conan O&apos;Brien and Bruno Mars use Google Hangouts, so shouldn&apos;t you too?Okay, so, everything in Google+ is going to look completley different, assuming you remember what it looks like since you last logged on a year ago.1.31pmETSoGoogle Chromeand my entire computer just stopped responding – irony!The Google rock star person (Chris Yerga) is talking about Google&apos;s education products.There is a video of Malaysian children carrying around Google Chromebooks, which their teacher says they can use anywhere, including a field. A field with functioning Wi-Fi, presumably.Sundar Pichai holds a Google Chromebook Pixel Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesUpdatedat 1.57pm ET1.29pmETMore fromGuardian product managerTom Grinsted:This is a developers conference, so we shouldn&apos;t be surprised, but the fact that Google continue to develop open formats that are small and quick (like their new image format) demonstrates that they&apos;re still interested in being good digital citizens - at heart it feels like they&apos;re still developers. But of course, rolling them all out to Chrome on tablets, phones, and desktops first (and potentially better integrating them in the case of the proxy example that apparently reduces data usage by 40%) is going to help adoption across devices - which must be a key aim for the company. Also, of course, for new formats to be really useful (and not cause pain for content producers producing many different versions of assets) they need to be adopted by the market - I don&apos;t know if MS, and Apple play to support these in their respective browsers (that&apos;s ignorance by the way, I simply don&apos;t know).Mobile browsers are getting demonstrably more powerful. Showing off a game that runs in the browser, on multiple different devices, that when lined up make a single track across the multiple different screens, really demonstrates how powerful the mobile web and web apps have become. It&apos;s safe to say that these kinds of demos rightly fuel the valuable (but sometimes tiring) discussions comparing native and web apps.Updatedat 2.58pm ET1.20pmETOne thing Google Glass doesn&apos;t do: mask the bored look on your face when the speech hits a slow point.Attendees look on during the opening keynote Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesAn attendee wears Google Glass as he watches the keynote Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesUpdatedat 1.22pm ET1.17pmETOutside the hall, the Guardian&apos;s Dominic Rushe finds people watching the actionCrowd outside hall at#googleiovine.co/v/bEb07BxbnKP&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)May 15, 20131.14pmETGoogle uses the gigantic screens to display aGIF of a cat shooting lasers out of its eyes. The conference is not yet halfway over.Updatedat 1.15pm ET1.08pmETGuardian product managerTom Grinsted, who will actually use all these things in his real life, shared some thoughts on today&apos;s announcements.Cross platform is a major theme – as it should be in a world where in mature markets users mave multiple devices.Cross platforms single sign-on: a major play to continue to embed Google identity across different platforms; it&apos;s a smart move in a world where users have multiple devices. I really like this idea, but I do wonder if users will be comfortable with the automatic sign-in. Some devices are more personal than others, and many people use different devices to differentiate different audiences (laptop for work, mobile for social, etc). So how will people feel about being automatically signed in? They may be completely fine and very happy at the wonderful seamless experience, or some may be a little surprised. In the end it&apos;ll be up to developers and UX designers to make sure that users continue to feel comfortableNew services for game developers are, again, cross-platform – so expect developers to create more games which link web and apps. But a lot of them, eg inviting people to play games, are tied to Google+. I think that there&apos;s a key strategy here, which is to make G+ an integral and powerful aspect of apps, and in doing so use the success of the Android and Chrome platforms of drive adoption of Google+.International is increasingly important for Google now. They see future growth of the platforms happening in non-English speaking (and non-western) markets. We saw this with the maps at the beginning, and more importantly in the new translation services for developers. I&apos;d say this is Google looking at how to sieve non-English growth, and a lot of that is about having compelling app and content propositions.Beta testing and staged rollout is a great feature for developers. Thinking about our own developments, beta and MV testing is one of those things that makes developing apps more challenging than the web. So this is geeky, but very welcome.Updatedat 2.59pm ET1.06pmETTo show off Chrome, Google is showing off games and interactive features made forThe Hobbit. Google knows its audience.Apparently you can visit Middle Earth on the mobile version of Chrome?#Googleioand#hobbitthe ultimate geek fest.vine.co/v/bEbPp9MEn17&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)May 15, 2013Updatedat 1.20pm ET1.02pmETBeethoven&apos;s fifth symphonyjust blared across the Moscone Center&apos;s speakers to transition into news on Google Chrome, which has more than 750m users today.Big emphasis on mobile, as expected.12.57pmETGoogle Play Music All AccessYerga is demonstrating Google&apos;snew music subscription service,All Access, which launches today in the US.It looks like a blend of all the streaming-services with an emphasis on Google&apos;s mega-search abilities.Users can explore genres and click to turn it into a radio feature.Now, this, this is useful – radio tracks people don&apos;t like can be swiped away off the playlist.It&apos;s going for $9.99 a month in the US, though Google is offering a complimentary 30 day trial.12.53pmETVic Gundotra, senior vice president, engineering for Google Photograph: Jeff Chiu/APUpdatedat 12.56pm ET12.51pmETHere it comes –the music service.Yerga, &quot;Google&apos;s rock star&quot;, said &quot;music unites us.&quot; By &quot;unites&quot;, he presumably means &quot;can create a lot of money for.&quot;He&apos;s now explaining the new product – Google Play Music All Access – &quot;a uniquely Google approach to a music subscription service.&quot;They're certainly getting the rock star treatment, though. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images12.47pmETBarra says he is feeling &quot;API-ed&quot; out. Which is really great news, because we all are.Now, Android’s engineering director Chris Yerga,&quot;Google&apos;s resident rock star&quot; according to Barra, takes the stage.Yerga is showing off personalization features in the Google Play store. He was recommended Inception because one of his friends Google +1ed it. Synergy.12.42pmETGoogle Play&apos;sEllie Powers is showing off improvements to the Google Play Developer Console that will accomplish the ultimate goal of making more money and getting more users.A lot of talk about translation technologies here, including a professional app translation service accessible through the developer console. This will not be free.This will be handy as Powers is now unveiling a referral tracking tool, which shows where the users are located when they download an app from the Google Play store.12.41pmETGoogle senior vice-president of Android, Chrome and apps Sundar Pichai on the stage. Or possibly a Daft Punk music video. Or both? Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images12.37pmETGlad that&apos;s sorted:Ellie Powers of Google Play is up. Prompter back. Techpocalypse avoided.#googleio&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)May 15, 201312.37pmETThings are getting really specialized at the conference as Google demosAndroid Studio. It promises to improve developers ability to preview apps.This conference is being streamed live on Google-owned YouTube, which has enabled live comments right next to the screen. Some developers seem to weighing in with comments such as &quot;AWESOME!!!!!&quot; while others seem to be just enjoying the ride: &quot;trolololololo.&quot;12.33pmETMore tech problems. Always at the tech conferences, too.Prompter down at#googleio.#techpocalypse&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)May 15, 201312.30pmETA &quot;family&quot; of APIs is also being launched forgame developers. While this seems like an excuse for Barra to play games on big, fancy screens, the demonstration isn&apos;t working. Awkward.First demo fail of Google IO, unable to get the new multiplayer gaming API to work&mdash; alexei oreskovic (@lexnfx)May 15, 201312.27pmETAttendees line up to enter the Google I/O developers conference at the Moscone Center in San Francisco, California. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images12.26pmETHugo Barra, VP of product management for Android, is talking about threenew APIsGoogle is launching for developers.Barra said the fused location provider (API #1) will use only 1% of the battery power that was used by older APIs. That announcement inspired the most fervent clapping from the audience thus far.API #2 is called Geofencing, and it improves apps&apos; response to phone user location changes.Finally, API #3 is activity recognition – which enables apps to determine whether you are driving, biking or walking. Again, this will be battery efficient. Cue more fervent audience claps.watching google i/o keynote livestream and clapping in sync with the audience to convince myself that I understand whats going on here.&mdash; ABVan (@ABVan)May 15, 2013Updatedat 12.28pm ET12.18pmETGoogle’s senior vice president of Chrome and apps, Sundar Pichair, says 900 million people have activatedAndroid, Google&apos;s mobile operating system, so far this year. There are more fancy videos with lasers and things before Pichair shows a map of where Android use is growing across the globe, which is everywhere.That's a lot. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesUpdatedat 12.49pm ET12.10pmETIt’s begun, the Google IO has begun! In their jaunty opening video – replete with headphoned hipsters – music proved to be a prevailing theme. This means that all of the streaming service speculation is likely to be vindicated within the next three hours.Vic Gundotra, senior vice-president of engineering for Google, then welcomed the 6,000 people in attendance and the more than a million people watching the conference live online.12.04pmETAhead of today’s conference,Dominic Rushespoke toGoogle Glasstesters to see what they think of the wearable computer, which allows users to save precious seconds every day by having a functioning computer in front of their face instead of on a mobile phone.11.55amETGoogle&apos;s annual developer conference,Google I/O,gets under way today with a three-hour marathon keynote event in San Francisco, California.There&apos;s much informed speculation that Google will announce details of asubscription streaming musicservice to rival Spotify. The technology website The Verge said Google hassigned licensing dealswith Universal Music and Sony Music Entertainment, in addition to one already signed with Warner that will cover YouTube and Google Play with Universal Music Group and Sony Music Entertainment for both YouTube and Google Play.It&apos;s also expected that Google will talk more aboutGoogle Glass, the much-hyped wearable computer that&apos;s been spotted onwell-connected members of the publicwith increased frequency in the past few months.There may also be news about a revamp forGoogle Maps– screengrabs of a new interface were leaked on Tuesday.Google CEO Larry Pageannounced that he has been suffering from vocal paralysis on Monday, which he said makes &quot;giving long monologues is more tedious for me and probably the audience.&quot; So that&apos;s something to look forward to. (Get well soon, Larry.)The Guardian&apos;sDominic Rusheis live-tweeting from the conference and will be reporting on Google&apos;s big announcements.Yours truly in Google Glass.#googleiolooking like a German architect.twitter.com/dominicru/stat…&mdash; dominic rushe (@dominicru)May 15, 2013
The way companies are taxed has changed with the way corporations have developed in the last 100 years, expanding beyond national borders. The emergence of substantial international trade in the 1920s prompted countries to agree tax treaties in an attempt to ensure profits were appropriately taxed where they were generated.Despite these efforts, tax engineers have caused problems for exchequers around the world for decades as they have built clever corporate structures to mimimise tax bills for their multinational corporate clients. The advent of the internet has opened up a new front in this battle for tax fairness.A new generation of cyber-corporations have been able to tell the taxman they do not carry out taxable activities in territories from which they generate billions of pounds in sales.The British tax authorities appear to agree that Amazon can avoid paying corporation tax on the profits it made on the £12bn of sales the internet giant has generated in the UK over the last four years.Whether Amazon EU Sarl, its Luxembourg operation, amounts to a "permanent establishment" in the UK that can be taxed by HMRC is down to a combination of laws and accounting protocols set out in double taxation treaties, the HRMC rule book and OECD guidelines.The Guardian has discovered that Revenue &amp; Customs has four tests it applies to an overseas company to establish whether that company is liable to corporation tax on its activities.• Is there trading activity by the non-resident company?• Does that trading take place in the UK?• Does the non-resident company have a fixed place of business in the UK?• Is the trade carried on through that fixed place of business? Or, if there is no fixed place of business, is the trade carried on through a dependent agent?If the answer to all of these questions is yes, then HMRC can levy corporation tax on the non-resident company.Despite Amazon EU Sarl's extensive activities in the UK, it appears that HMRC inspectors – for reasons we cannot know – have accepted the retailer's insistence that this business is not captured by these four tests.Amazon EU Sarl trades through Amazon.co.uk, and all purchases made by UK customers are invoiced from the company in Luxembourg. This trade is distinct from the activities of the Amazon UK resident company, which provides only "fulfilment [that is, warehouse operations] and corporate support services".The Guardian has learned that Amazon EU Sarl trades in the UK by securing contracts with British publishers and traders to provide the crucial goods and services it needs for its website.The trading takes place in the UK not just through sales made on the website but also through the procurement and development of products and services.The company indicates on its website it carries out a wide range of activities from his corporate offices in Slough in Berkshire. It says: "UK Corporate Offices – Slough, Berkshire, England. Since 1998, our teams have developed a genuinely British site with the same commitment to customers, cutting-edge technology and rich editorial content that has made Amazon.com such a success. Our Slough teams manage all corporate functions, including buying, marketing, software development, sales and legal."Amazon EU Sarl appears to carry on its trade through its fixed place of business because book supply contracts, setting out the terms on which publishers will sell books to Amazon, are negotiated by executives based in the Slough head office.The Guardian has seen extracts from a contract that confirm it is made between the publisher and Amazon EU Sarl.However, a UK publishing executive, who asked not to be named, confirmed that the contract had been negotiated, on behalf of Amazon EU Sarl, by staff based in Slough."The contract may be with Luxembourg," the executive said, "but it is the people from Slough who thrash out the crucial details of the contract such as the discount we agree to give them. There are also people in Slough who are charged with overseeing that the contract is properly executed.A spokesman for HMRC said: "HMRC cannot comment on specific cases for legal reasons. A non-resident company is only chargeable to UK corporation tax if it is trading in the UK through a permanent establishment. Both UK legislation and international tax rules agree on this."Significant elements of Amazon EU Sarl's trade in the UK provide content for the  website by negotiating contracts with publishers and traders. HMRC's own manual  says: "One of the ways in which a permanent establishment of a foreign enterprise may be brought into existence is where an agent … acting on behalf of the enterprise has, and habitually exercises … an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise."The existence of a permanent establishment would bring all Amazon EU Sarl's activities in the UK into the UK corporation tax net because the contracts for purchases made from Amazon's UK website would be deemed to be made in this country.
Sony has officially announced Gran Turismo 6, the latest title in the company's long-running and hugely successful driving simulation series. During an event held at Silverstone on Wednesday, Kazunori Yamauchi, the creator of the series and CEO of developer Polyphony Digital, confirmed that the game would arrive on PlayStation 3 this autumn.In a press release distributed today, Sony promised that the new title will bring "new levels of authenticity" to the scrupulously authentic racer. New cars and tracks are promised as well as a new interface and a 'compact engine' that will, "improve operation and increase the flexibility to expand it with downloadable content". The announcement also promises greater integration with smartphones and tablets as well as improved social and community features.Since its arrival on the original PlayStation in 1997, Gran Turismo has been known for its realistic handling and large roster of accurately modeled vehicles. Gran Turismo 6 is set to feature 1200 cars from manufacturers such as Ferrari, Lamborghini, Audi and Bugatti. The line-up will combine historic models with exotic newcomers. Of the 33 circuits, seven are set to be brand new, including Silverstone.One interesting new addition is the Course Maker mode, an updated version of the Gran Turismo 5 feature; this will allow players to generate new circuits for themselves using "several kilometres" of scenery. It's not yet clear whether this is a full track editor or a procedural map generation feature that automates the process.Celebrating its 15th anniversary this year, the Gran Turismo series has sold over 70m units, according to Sony. The arrival of a newcomer so later in the PS3's life cycle is an interesting move – it had been expected that a new Gran Turismo title would arrive as a launch title for the PlayStation 4 console, which is also set to be launched this autumn. It could be that Sony is waiting to announce a next-gen conversion of Gran Turismo 6 until the E3 games conference in June.
"I would love to make Dead Space, I'll tell you that right now," said John Carpenter last week, adding the celebrated director, expert moustache cultivator and avid gamer to the the swelling ranks of reputable film-makers (ie those whose names aren't spelled "Paul WS Anderson" or "Uwe Boll") who recognise games as another viable well of narrative inspiration – equal in richness, if not yet in popular reputation, to any other artform.And it's difficult to envisage a director better suited or more qualified to interpret the dank corridors and squelchy, shambling horrors of the USG Ishimura. The Thing, The Fog and Halloween clearly influenced Visceral's icky franchise, and Carpenter's ideas feeding back into a mythology they helped create gives a pleasing sense of symmetry. His skill with suspense and body horror would serve a cinematic Dead Space better than any other director we can think of.While, for now, Carpenter's Dead Space dwells solely in the realm of the hypothetical, we hope someone with a spare hundred million dollars or so takes a punt on it. It's a perfect fit. It also got us wondering which other film-makers would be best suited to gaming adaptations. We've got a few suggestions:The Elder Scrolls: Skyrim – Guillermo del ToroThe Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim: heavy on the dragonsSkyrim's tale of dragons and political power struggles doesn't seem like such a hard sell post-Game Of Thrones and Lord of the Rings, and while any of the Elder Scrolls games would be an ideal jumping-off point, Skyrim has dragons. And everybody loves dragons. Guillermo del Toro originally signed up to direct The Hobbit (before inner-studio politicking relieved him of the chance) so you'd think he's got a superb dragon-heavy fantasy bubbling away in him somewhere. A liberal sprinkling of sensibilities from the darker end of his oeuvre (like Pan's Labyrinth and the Devil's Backbone) could produce a dense, dark and thrilling epic.Far Cry – Duncan JonesFar Cry 3: journey to the heart of darknessLet's forget for a moment that Uwe Boll has already made a Far Cry film – one so meritless it does you actual physical harm – and consider the potential of Far Cry 3's narrative. A group of teens captured on a Pacific island is held at the whim of an unhinged drug lord; Jason, the protagonist, abandoning his humanity, turns to murder and witchcraft in order to save them. It's a journey to the heart of darkness. With Moon, Duncan Jones explored the ramifications of one man's descent into ostensible madness. A similarly handled treatment of Jason, together with the adroit deployment of visual flair Jones once again exhibited in Source Code, would lend enough weight to Jason's journey to propose the same awkward insights into morality that the game almost did.Slender – Jaume Balagueró and Paco PlazaSlender: pervasive, suffocating sense of dreadWhen used deftly, particularly in horror, "found footage" can be incredibly effective. Slender, Parsec's free-to-play chiller, has you wandering alone in the woods as you're stalked by the faceless, sharp-suited Slender Man. You're not armed – all you have is a torch – so if you see him, you run, or you die. Your brief glimpses of him become more and more frequent as he moves in. He toys with you. He waits. It's bowel-looseningly terrifying: no gore, just a pervasive, suffocating sense of dread – one which Jaume Balagueró and Paco Plaza's REC, particularly in its unbearably tense later scenes, oozed. Fleshing out the backstory a tad, a found-footage Slender might be a bit Blair Witchy, but in the capable hands of the REC helmers it could be utterly petrifying.Spec Ops: The Line – Kathryn BigelowSpec Ops: The Line: treatise on wartime moralitySpec Ops: The Line was one of last year's most interesting releases - a character study and treatise on wartime morality packaged as a gung-ho military shooter; more Apocalypse Now than Rambo III. In it, Dubai lies beneath the sands following a biblical sand storm, and your group is one of many fighting for survival in the wastes. The Line asks you to examine what each kill means, portraying its characters as affected by each life they take. Kathryn Bigelow's similar work on The Hurt Locker and Zero Dark Thirty might make her a bit of a route-one choice, but it's hard to think of anyone better.Dishonored – Nicholas Winding RefnDishonored: could be a violent, uncompromising revenge movieOne of the surprise hits of last year brought us the skewed-reality setting of Dunwall, a swarming den of skullduggery, murder and intrigue. Corvo, framed for a crime he didn't commit, becomes an assassin of singular purpose – ruthless, yes, but necessarily so. With Drive, Nicholas Winding Refn trod similar ground, showing the hero committing savage acts of brutality for the greater good. Valhalla Rising and Bronson marked him out as no slouch when it came to design and visuals, too – in Refn's hands, Disonored would be a violent, uncompromising revenge mystery in a nihilistic yet beautiful Dunwall. That sounds rather good.Tomb Raider – Danny BoyleTomb Raider: could become a darker tale of survivalIt's certainly time for a new cinematic spin on the character of Lara Croft, sending the silliness of Angelina Jolie's efforts to the metaphorical step of shame where they can have a good think about what they've done. This year's Tomb Raider showed Lara's metamorphosis from frightened, defenceless youngster to double-hard grave-burglarising kicker of bottom. It was, in places, incredibly dark, asking questions about what it takes to kill, even if it only partially succeeded in answering them. Doing what you must to survive is a theme Danny Boyle's explored, from 127 Hours' self-amputation to 28 Days Later's less generous appraisal of the depths to which humanity will plunge. His kinetic visuals would not only give stylistic sheen, but also help convey the primal fear, instinctive violence and inner turmoil of Lara's journey, as they did with Aron Ralston's. Boyle wouldn't touch it in a million years though.Uncharted – Shane BlackUncharted 3: Drake's Deception: reluctant, bickering heroismSilver Linings Playbook director David O Russell wrote a treatment for an Uncharted movie, with the intent of casting Marky Mark Wahlberg as Nathan Drake. "Creative differences" – that ancient chestnut – caused him to abandon the idea. Shane Black, currently riding the wave of success with Iron Man 3, would presumably write as well as direct, bringing the confident understanding of spectacle which runs through his recent work. Most importantly, he'd understand that the key to Uncharted is Nathan Drake's reluctant, bickering heroism. Black's work on Lethal Weapon, The Last Boy Scout and Iron Man make him the ideal choice.Mass Effect – Christopher NolanMass Effect 3: deserves Christopher Nolan's touchThere have been grumblings of a Mass Effect film since 2010, but little actual movement beyond that. It certainly won't be a cheap film to produce, but Ridley Scott's Prometheus, if a meandering mess, proved expensive, mildly portentous sci-fi can make money. Christopher Nolan would be the safest choice for Mass Effect: his Batman films were intricately plotted dramas sold as blockbusters; intelligence perfectly balanced with bombast. If he could repeat this trick, Nolan could deliver the thrills the Mass Effect universe demands without scrimping on the multifaceted plot. Interstellar, his next film, is a sci-fi epic. Let's hope he gets a taste for them.Bioshock – Tim BurtonBioShock Infinite 3: could get the Time Burton tretmentGore Verbinski (of dubious Caribbean Pirates fame) tried to get a Bioshock film off the ground in 2008, with budgetary concerns forcing him to abandon the project. This might, in hindsight, have been for the best. Tim Burton doing a better job than Verbinski could is by no means guaranteed, but he's mentioned here because the prospect of his visual eye falling on Rapture, throwing a gothic veil across the doomed underwater art deco dystopia, is tantalising. Burton does have something of style over substance about him, but if he could rein in his predilection for kitsch oddballity and bring the harder, nastier edge of Sleepy Hollow or Batman's grimmer moments, he could do ample justice to Andrew Ryan's legacy.Halo – Neill BlomkampHalo 3: packed with aliens and explosionsNeill Blomkampwas actually in line to direct a Halo movie, but even the producing might of Peter Jackson couldn't get that particular ball rolling. Irritating, because Blomkamp (whose Halo disappointment led to him directing District 9) was an excellent choice, and proof is in the pudding of Bloomkamp's short Halo film. If you like (a) aliens, (b) explosions and (c) combinations therein, Blomkamp's Halo would have been right up your strasse.Let us know your suggestions in the comments.
Margaret Thatcher's funeral: 22 things you could pay for with £10mgu.com/p/3f6ea/tw(via @guardiandata)&mdash; The Guardian (@guardian)April 16, 2013It&apos;s perhaps quite telling that the most retweeted@Guardiantweet of all time involves a big political news story, some cracking data journalism and a dollop of wit.The datablog piece on 22 things you could pay for with £10m (the cost of Margaret Thatcher&apos;s funeral,which No 10 have since confirmed was lower)was retweeted 1,199 times from the Guardian&apos;s main Twitter account - making it our most retweeted tweet of all time. Other top tweets shared from the @Guardian account include news headlines onthe horsemeat scandal,military equipment in Bahrain, and a tweet aboutOlympic athletes overtaking the Kardashiansas strong role models for women.Since May 2009 @Guardian has been sending out 140 characters of news, features, reviews, live webchats and the best content from guardian.co.uk. Starting with a tweet about six people beingkilled in an earthquake in Honduras,the account had just 90 followers by July 2009. Four years on,@Guardianis keeping1mfollowers up to date.To celebrate the 1m milestone, we want to know more about where our followers are tweeting from – as we know there are 1 million sides to every story and 1 million faces replying, retweeting, and sharing their views in the Twitterverse.Share your view with us by taking a picture of where you are tweeting from (maybe even a #selfie if you&apos;re that way inclined) and tweet the picture to@Guardianwith the tag#1msides- make sure you have your location permission turned on for the tweet - and be sure to include a caption about yourself and where you&apos;re tweeting from. You can also share your images with us via GuardianWitness by clicking on the contribute button or downloading the app.We&apos;ll post your#1msidestweets in this blog throughout the day and create a map of the photos. As you can see, we&apos;ve taken a picture of the community team behind the @Guardian account (performing an A-level style jump) at the Guardian&apos;s offices in Kings Place to get you started.You can also see Jon Henley talking about using Twitter for reporting theEuro Debt Tales here.#1msidesWe&apos;ve started receiving views from around the world via the hashtag#1msides. Here&apos;s a rather fetching one from inside the Google offices:Lilly and Tripitaka, North East Victoria AusOur viewSent viaGuardianWitnessBylillyj15 May 2013, 13:05Cherry Blossom in St Stephen&#x27;s Green, Dublin 2, Ireland.Cherry blossom, no rain and oddly enough very few people - now, where&#x27;s my sushi?Sent viaGuardianWitnessByRedCert15 May 2013, 13:26A Million German DandelionsHere&#x27;s a beautiful little clearing that I pass on my way to work in Munich. The lush grass is strewn with millions of dandelion flowers and the sky was perfect today. Congratulations to the Guardian - my vital link with the UK!Sent viaGuardianWitnessBySchneck15 May 2013, 13:30Praa Sands beach in Cornwall. Walking before writing!#1Msidestwitter.com/SuzieCunliffe/…&mdash; Suzie Cunliffe (@SuzieCunliffe)May 15, 2013@guardianI tweet from here#1msidesCongratulations for 1million followers!!yfrog.com/gyzgbvqtjLima, Perú&mdash; carlos aramburu (@caramburuc)May 15, 2013Love your tweets congrats on 1m followers. Here's a view of local bluebell woods#1msidestwitter.com/SarahWood7/sta…&mdash; Sarah Wood (@SarahWood7)May 15, 2013@guardianIn a dark room with white strings and UV lights at the Singapore Art Museum.#1msidestwitter.com/gwenpew/status…&mdash; Gwen Pew (@gwenpew)May 15, 2013@guardianFour seasons in one view#Hebrides#onthecliffedge#1msidestwitter.com/onthecliffedge…&mdash; Eilidh (@onthecliffedge)May 15, 2013#1MsidesBournemouth rail stationtwitter.com/terryfish/stat…&mdash; Terry Fish (@terryfish)May 15, 2013View from my desk (arty)I work as a Senior advisor on the Eon campaign for Gainshare. Based in Jarrow. Quite an artistic view from my desk. Guardian Witness rules. Incentive to take photos. Thanks Guardian.Sent viaGuardianWitnessByMBlyth15 May 2013, 14:28View from my office, my home. With the worlds diary and iCal at my fingertips...Hampshire UK#1Msidestwitter.com/JaggerNose/sta…&mdash; Emily Jagger (@JaggerNose)May 15, 2013London Bridge (station) is falling down...view from site office for the new station#1msidestwitter.com/skingernator/s…&mdash; Patrick Skingley (@skingernator)May 15, 2013At a tech &amp; product conferenceWith lots of pens and note pads...Sent viaGuardianWitnessByannanthem15 May 2013, 14:22@guardian#1msidesSmall town Spain! Who says Spain has to be sunny...twitter.com/danielpannell4…&mdash; Daniel Pannell (@danielpannell43)May 15, 2013.@bobohara#1msidesCongrats @guardian- my office view, just outside the door (deer in there, somewhere)twitter.com/RunRichRun/sta…&mdash; Rich Stein (@RunRichRun)May 15, 2013@guardianI'm on a social media and the church course @westcott_house@guardian:#1Msides#westcotttwitter.com/RevLainey/stat…&mdash; Elaine Scrivens (@RevLainey)May 15, 2013Playing with the DogSent viaGuardianWitnessByLeo Gundle15 May 2013, 14:26@guardianHere is at my @atjehpostoffice in#Aceh, Indonesia's Province. U are our inspiration#1msidestwitter.com/yuswardi_ali/s…&mdash; Yuswardi A.Suud(@yuswardi_ali)May 15, 2013Congrats @guardianfrom about 100m away in @naturenewstowers.#1msidestwitter.com/marianlturner/…&mdash; Marian Turner (@marianlturner)May 15, 2013@guardian- my studio space.#bradford. I work as a#fashiondesigner :)twitter.com/styleisaaq/sta…&mdash; Manazza Isaaq (@styleisaaq)May 15, 2013My little sunflower seedlings have popped up about 2 weeks earlier than expected.twitter.com/BoyceWP/status…&mdash; W. P. Boyce (@BoyceWP)May 8, 2013@guardianTweeting from the countryside in Veneto, Italy#1msidestwitter.com/BioMarly/statu…&mdash; Marleen Roelofs (@BioMarly)May 15, 2013@guardian#1msidesMontreal on Rue Drolettwitter.com/francesroussea…&mdash; francesrousseau (@francesrousseau)May 15, 2013@guardian#1msides#lakesempach#Switzerlandtwitter.com/aineoconnell/s…&mdash; Aine OConnell (@aineoconnell)May 15, 2013@guardian#1Msideswrapping up at the office - my view right now#Hometimetwitter.com/zk/status/3346…&mdash; ZK (@zk)May 15, 2013@guardianright now I am at @uw_wbsWestminster Business School#1msidestwitter.com/MeralCrifasi/s…&mdash; Meral Crifasi(@MeralCrifasi)May 15, 2013@guardianI work near Frida Kahlo's house. Coyoacán, Mexico City#1msidestwitter.com/anaavilamexico…&mdash; Ana Avila (@anaavilamexico)May 15, 2013@guardian#1msidesthis is Kapiti Island, New Zealand taken from the train window on my way to work in Wellingtontwitter.com/garryandjanet/…&mdash; Janet Harris (@garryandjanet)May 15, 2013The view from my office in sunny OsloSent viaGuardianWitnessByDaveMcInnes15 May 2013, 16:46McDonald&#x27;s sunsetNo matter where you are, these places are all the same like in Płock PolandSent viaGuardianWitnessByMurdo Wski16 May 2013, 03:44A perfect day in SydneyJust walked along from bondi to bronteSent viaGuardianWitnessByjgordon16 May 2013, 02:06Spring blossom comes to London, at lastSent viaGuardianWitnessByID226854315 May 2013, 22:36@guardianstuck in the library revising for university exams#1msidestwitter.com/Alice_Ralston/…&mdash; Alice Ralston (@Alice_Ralston)May 16, 2013@guardian#1msidesGreat idea. View from Sand Point.Here's to 2mtwitter.com/gailp955/statu…&mdash; Gail Parker (@gailp955)May 16, 2013#1msidesOverlooking the Kennebecasis River, Quispamsis, N.B., keeping up on UK and World news! Thanks Guardiantwitter.com/Jancolsum/stat…&mdash; Janet Summerhayes (@Jancolsum)May 16, 2013Sharing my view, @guardian, on a sunny day in#rochmn.#1msidestwitter.com/tomburket/stat…&mdash; tomburket (@tomburket)May 15, 2013#1Msides@guardianview of the Gherkintwitter.com/ARAG_George/st…&mdash; George Bladon (@ARAG_George)May 15, 2013@guardiangotta love it - work in Housing + on business trip to pretty pretty Llandudno#1Msidestwitter.com/RachelJMorton/…&mdash; Rachel Morton (@RachelJMorton)May 15, 2013Twitting from London to the cloud. Just a teacher trying to return home safe and sound :-)#1Msides@guardiantwitter.com/Maje/status/33…&mdash; Maje (@Maje)May 15, 2013This is me today... by the pool... lazing in the sunshine in sunny California#1Msidestwitter.com/designsbyrow/s…&mdash; Rowena Togni (@designsbyrow)May 15, 2013@guardian#1msidesNearly home. Norwood Junction has no glamour but I see a glimpse of blue skies!twitter.com/anerleytigers/…&mdash; Juju (@anerleytigers)May 15, 2013@guardian#1msides#StAnton#Austriatwitter.com/DirkKuyt/statu…&mdash; Tom Farrar (@DirkKuyt)May 15, 2013@guardian#1msidesCherry tree opposite the Town Hall in the lovely old market town of Devizes where I live.twitter.com/garlandflower/…&mdash; Judy Rose (@garlandflower)May 15, 2013#1msidesFive mile beach Jerseytwitter.com/SimonNashJsy/s…&mdash; Simon Nash (@SimonNashJsy)May 15, 2013@guardian@bashaamy current view of Bradford for#1msides:)twitter.com/bushra/status/…&mdash; Bushra (@bushra)May 15, 2013@guardianwe’re at our office opening in Dubai – great views#1msidestwitter.com/Caliberi/statu…&mdash; Caliber-i (@Caliberi)May 16, 2013
With its 100m monthly active users andbig-bucks acquisition by Facebook, Instagram is often seen as having won the photo-sharing app wars. Actually, though, it might instead have kicked off another wave of creativity for the category.The race for mainstream popularity and a billion-dollar exit might be done, but that may free startups and developers from fretting about how to be bigger than Instagram, to focus instead on being better than it for certain tasks and/or groups.Come, likeCooliris, are trying to help people browse and organise the photos they have scattered across multiple services, while others likeCoupleandBetweenare trying private photo-sharing for couples.Snapchathas made a big impact with its self-destructing snaps, whileRandois exploring anonymous, random photo-sharing (and, impressively, avoiding this being overrun ChatRoulette-style by creepy naked men).Then there'sHipstamatic, whose iPhone app launched in 2009 with a retro slant on digital photography – lenses and film effects – that generated endless comparisons with Instagram., even though it had a different business model: paid not free.By the summer of 2012, Instagram was clearing regulatory hurdles for its Facebook deal whileHipstamatic was laying off staff, albeit while promising to "reset and rebuild" in order to "continue to make awesome photo apps for mobile devices".In May 2013, the first of those new apps appeared:Oggl. It launched on iPhone as an invite-only app, pitched as "a community for creative people to capture and curate their lives through photography".The new app draws on the lenses and films from Hipstamatic, but makes them more accessible – suggesting combinations for contexts including food, nightlife, landscape and portrait shots, rather than expecting users to discover the best options for themselves.The app also has a central feed of shots taken by friends and other people, with the ability for each user to "curate" their own collection of photos they like. This time round, the business model is subscription: £1.99 for three months or £6.99 for a year, which gives access to all the effects."We went back to the drawing board, and rethought how to take photos, and made it a bit more social, even though we never ever wanted to build a social network," says CEO Lucas Buick."Social networking scared me so much because of the [need for] monetisation: I never wanted to put ads next to people's photos, so we've gone for subscription. Our community are creative people smart enough to recognise that if the product is free, they're probably the product, so we think they see the value in paying."Oggl is also launching beyond iOS, courtesy of apartnership with Nokiaannounced as the company unveiled its latest Lumia 925 Windows Phone. The app will be available on Microsoft's Windows Phone store in June when the smartphone goes on sale, with potential to preload it on future devices."It's not the first time we've been approached by an OEM, but we've always said no. This time it was a little different," says Buick."Nokia's focus on imaging, and their passion for really pushing the capabilities of the hardware, is what's inspired us to do this. It's the first time we've seen something coming out of Nokia that's really new and pushing the industry forward."Oggl is appearing on Windows Phone through a partnership with NokiaWhat does the launch of Oggl mean for the original Hipstamatic app, which remains iPhone-only? "Hipstamatic will still be around and we'll continue to support it," says Buick."Oggl is a new way to experience its library of lenses and films. It's no longer about the analogy of a toy camera: Oggl is more or less what we think a point-and-shoot for mobile would be."The emphasis on curation of other people's photos as well as taking your own is interesting, and ties in to wider trends in social media and apps, from Tumblr and Pinterest to Flipboard magazines."Giving that power over to people is really interesting. Tumblr is a great example of people developing their own careers based on the fact that they're trendsetters or just have a good eye for something," says Buick."TakeThe Sartorialist. I had no idea about this guy until he started curating the men's fashion world, but now everyone's following him in that industry. As social media grows up, our feeds are just full of stuff we don't have time to look at. Curation is a good solution for that."For now, Oggl has a roadmap of new features to add, although Hipstamatic is also working hard on scaling up the infrastructure behind it to let more people in to use the app.The company is also continuing to produce issues of Snap Magazine, its monthly culture mag for iOS that also showcases Hipstamatic's lens/film combinations with its photography – an example of the company itself playing curator.Buick says that the tough times in 2012 will remain at the front of his mind throughout these next steps, too. "Oggl represents us taking everything we've learned, including learning from the things that didn't work," he says."Last year we came to a tipping point. We had to decide if we were a technology company or a creative company. And as much as we're in the technology industry, our hearts are still with the creative community. So we're building products that inspire that group of people, rather than worrying about numbers and growth-hacking."Growth-hacking? That's the much-discussed (in Silicon Valley at least) process by which startups rapidly bump up their user numbers through means that are seen as fair or foul depending on who you talk to."It's so weird that for some companies, all they do is hack the system, or try to find a hole in Facebook's algorithms to get a bunch of users, instead of just building a product that people really like," says Buick."A lot of companies are focusing on systems and numbers, but they won't be around in a few years, even if some have great exits. Right now, people are making up a lot of numbers, or finding one thing or another to boost them. But is that real growth?"
The birth of one of the world's greatest inventors of toys is celebrated with a Google doodle featuring trains, tracks and other model railway paraphernalia.Frank Hornby, the inventor ofHornby model railways,MeccanoandDinky Toys, was born 150 years ago in Liverpool. He had no training as an engineer or craftsman but began making toys for his children in 1899.He cut out pieces of metal to construct bridges and buildings but realised that if he made interchangeable components, they could be used to make a variety of objects.He began marketing his Mechanics Made Easy toy sets in 1902 and these rapidly sold out.By 1907 he had registered the name Meccano. The kits were made in Liverpool and exported all over the world.Hornby became a millionaire and was elected Conservative MP for Everton in 1931.In 1934, he began selling Dinky Toys – robust metal vehicles – and also began developing railway sets.He died in 1936, two years before his company began selling Hornby Dublo model railways.
BlackBerry is making its Messenger (BBM) real-time messaging service available on Apple's iPhone and iPad and Google's Android platforms from summer, abandoning the platform exclusivity that had for years been a crucial tool in attracting and retaining users.Announcing the move at the company's developer conference, software vice president Andrew Bocking said: "the time is definitely right for BBM to become a multi-platform mobile service. BBM has always been one of the most engaging services for BlackBerry customers, enabling them to easily connect while maintaining a valued level of personal privacy. We're excited to offer iOS and Android users the possibility to join the BBM community."Chief executive Thorsten Heins called the move "a statement of confidence". BlackBerry says that BBM has more than 60 million monthly active users, with more than 51 million using BBM for an average of 90 minutes per day. Its customers collectively send and receive more than 10bn messages daily, with almost half read within 20 second of being received, it said.The free app will be available once approved for Apple's iOS 6 software released last year and devices running Android 4.0 or higher, released in late 2011.BBM was once seen as an iconic messaging system which drew both teenagers and business people onto the BlackBerry platform because messages could only be swapped between its own handsets. But with its installed base of users falling, the company has had to look for ways to generate revenues from its software expertise.The move pitches BBM into a fight with other cross-platform data-reliant apps - known as "over the top" services - such as WhatsApp, WeChat and Viber. On Apple's iOS, it will put it up against the company's own iMessage app - though that does not work across different platforms.But BBM is now one of the smallest cross-platform apps, with WhatsApp claiming more than 200 million active users, and WeChat around 190 million.In the planned initial release, iOS and Android users would be able to experience the immediacy of BBM chats, including multi-person chats, as well as the ability to share photos and voice notes, and engage in BBM Groups, which allows BBM customers to create groups of up to 30 people.BlackBerry says BBM provides customers with a high level of control and privacy over who they add to their contact list and how they engage with them, as invites are two-way opt-in. iOS and Android users would be able to add their contacts through PIN, email, SMS or QR code scan, regardless of platform. Android users would also be able to connect using a compatible NFC-capable device.
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows keeps getting better &gt;&gt; Windows BlogToday at the JP Morgan Technology, Media &amp; Telecom Conference in Boston, Tami Reller shared with the audience that the update previously referred to as "Windows Blue" will be called Windows 8.1 and will be a free update to Windows 8 for consumers through the Windows Store.During her remarks today, Tami reiterated our goal of delivering continual updates to create a richer experience for Windows customers. Windows 8.1 is part of that and continues the journey we first began with Windows 8 last fall. Windows 8.1 will help us to deliver the next generation of PCs and tablets with our OEM partners and to deliver the experiences customers — both consumers and businesses alike —need and will just expect moving forward.No word on whether WinRT will get a similar update.Jaron Lanier: The Internet destroyed the middle class &gt;&gt; Salon.comThis week sees the publication of "Who Owns the Future?," which digs into technology, economics and culture in unconventional ways. (How is a pirated music file like a 21st century mortgage?) Lanier argues that there is little essential difference between Facebook and a digital trading company, or Amazon and an enormous bank. ("Stanford sometimes seems like one of the Silicon Valley companies.")Much of the book looks at the way Internet technology threatens to destroy the middle class by first eroding employment and job security, along with various "levees" that give the economic middle stability."Here's a current example of the challenge we face," he writes in the book's prelude: "At the height of its power, the photography company Kodak employed more than 14,000 people and was worth $28 billion. They even invented the first digital camera. But today Kodak is bankrupt, and the new face of digital photography has become Instagram. When Instagram was sold to Facebook for a billion dollars in 2012, it employed only 13 people. Where did all those jobs disappear? And what happened to the wealth that all those middle-class jobs created?"Clickjack attack – the hidden threat right in front of you &gt;&gt; Troy HuntA good primer on how to bust frames - used for clickjacking - given the growing arms race between framers and busters.Acer, Asustek see large sequential decreases in April revenues &gt;&gt; DigitimesAcer has reported April consolidated revenues of NT$25.772 billion (US$868 million) down on month by 31.02%, while Asustek Computer saw revenues of NT$32.594 billion, down 22.11%, according to the companies.Acer has seen falling year-on-year sales for four consecutive months; Asus, for only one of four.Microsoft: Don't expect a Windows 8 iTunes app soon &gt;&gt; CNNMicrosoft believes nearly all major apps that can be found in Apple's iTunes store will also be available on Windows 8 by the fall, but it expects one glaring hole to remain."You shouldn't expect an iTunes app on Windows 8 any time soon," said Tami Reller, chief financial officer of Microsoft's (MSFT, Fortune 500) Windows division. "ITunes is in high demand. The welcome mat has been laid out. It's not for lack of trying."Only available in Desktop mode. Don't hold your breath for the Metro (or RT) version.Microsoft YouTube app is a rule breaker; it strips ads, downloads video &gt;&gt; ReadWriteMicrosoft appears to be sticking a finger in Google's eye with the launch of its new YouTube app for Windows Phone. The app, ReadWrite has confirmed, strips out YouTube ads when it plays back videos and allows users to easily download video by way of a prominent "download" button.Both behaviors violate the cardinal rules YouTube imposes on developers who use its service. To get around those restrictions, it appears that Microsoft reverse-engineered some portion of the software used to access YouTube's basic functions, which are generally known as application programming interfaces, or APIs. If so, that could mean Microsoft can do just about whatever it wants with its YouTube app.Wonder how long this will be allowed, given that Google has somehow not got around to writing a Windows Phone version of the YouTube app in the past two and a half years?How greedy is Adobe's Creative Cloud subscription? Not very &gt;&gt; CNET NewsStephen Shankland:Plenty of people are outraged that Adobe is moving to subscription plans and scrapping perpetual licenses. But should they be?To shed some light on the situation, CNET broke out the spreadsheet software, dug into pricing information from Adobe and retail outlets, and put together some actual comparisons to see whether that wrath is deserved.The answer, as with all things complicated, is that it depends. But at least in some reasonable situations - not just power users but also middle-end customers who upgrade to Adobe's latest releases - the Creative Cloud isn't a bad deal at all."Jane you ignorant slut" &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionFormer Microsoft GM Hal Berenson, in October 2012:Let's start with what is definitely not a goal for Windows 8, broad-based Enterprise adoption. By that I mean, the rollout of Windows 8 to traditional desktop and notebook computing. Keep in mind that back when Windows 8 was being planned Windows 7 had just shipped. Because of the time, cost, and complexity of enterprise-wide operating system rollouts most enterprises would either still be rolling out Windows 7 or have just completed their rollout around the time Windows 8 shipped.  Indeed Windows 7 just recently passed Windows XP as the most popular version of the operating system in use. No enterprise would have the appetite to immediately start the cycle over again so quickly, and so (I believe) the prevailing wisdom inside Microsoft was that they would skip Windows 8. In other words, before Microsoft had decided on the details of a new app model, the Windows Store, the Start Screen, or removing the Start button they knew there was no point in targeting enterprise desktops as Windows 8 upgrade targets.He explains the headline (don't worry, it's not rude). As ever, Berenson gives you something extra to think about: the real metric Microsoft wants Windows 8 to be measured by. Read on.@Skynewsbreak Twitter Account Hacked &gt;&gt; Sky News Press OfficeEarlier today the @skynewsbreak twitter feed was hacked and a single message sent.Action was swiftly taken and we are working with Twitter and our in house security to ensure this cannot happen again.Perhaps a hacker could break into Dick Costolo's Twitter account so that two-factor authentication suddenly goes to the top of the to-do list there.Nvidia's new gaming handheld is out in June for $350 &gt;&gt; KotakuAnnounced in January as Project Shield, Nvidia's intriguing new handheld now has a price, a June release window, and the promise of Double Fine's Broken Age. Who's ready to spend $350 on a dedicated Android gaming device?Filed under "questions which answer themselves and involve very small numbers".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Carving out a niche for itself between the two blockbuster movies,Star Trekfollows up on the fate of the vagabond Vulcans, now missing one home planet, while reintroducing the reptillian Gorn aliens into the rebooted canon.The game benefits from voicing by the films' cast and from their likenesses,  but that, sadly, is where the praise ends. This largely co-op outing proves glitchy and frustrating, with the twin leads of Kirk and Spock frequently tripping over or blocking each other. Objectives are often unclear, even with the aid of the near-omnipotent tricorder.Star Trekisn't as bad as many movie tie-ins, but that's damning it with faint praise. A wholly underwhelming effort.
Something of a storm in a lightbox has blown up in the photo-journalism world over the revelation that the winner of the 2012 World Press Photo contest had a wee bit more than the usual darkroom techniques applied to it.The great picture from the Swedish photographer Paul Hansen – of two Palestinian children killed in an Israeli missile strike in Gaza being carried to their funeral – looked a worthy winner. But it did have a feeling of cinematic super-reality adding to the inherent drama.Some people even thought that the whole scene had been lit and staged for the camera.The photographer has explained the technique he used. He shot the picture as a "raw" file, straight or unprocessed from the camera's computer.Using just the one frame he used software which produced several versions of the image with varying tonal ranges, some with more contrast, some with less, which when combined made a picture that overall had a much higher tonal range than the unprocessed "raw" image.This is known as a high dynamic range or HDR photograph. Put simply, the highlights are not too light and bleached-out and the shadows still have detail in them. It feels like another form of reality, because our eyes and brain make all sorts of exposure compensations when we view a scene.Referring to the dispute over this image, Hansen says that the photograph is "certainly not a composite or a fake". He said: "I have never had a photograph more thoroughly examined."Usually this HDR technique uses more than one frame of the same subject, but crucially in Hansen's case only one frame was used.The chairman of the World Press competition judges, Santiago Lyon, director of photography at the Associated Press, has said of all the winners: "We are confident that the images conform to the accepted practices of the profession."These accepted practices normally mean that photographers cannot alter the sense or the content of a photograph by moving any pixels in their images; a very easily understood rule.However, it does appear that more extreme post-production techniques, such as HDR, are now to be allowed in photo-journalism competitions – and they will probably creep into everyday publication.Roger Tooth is the Guardian's head of photography
Researchers have played down claims by Samsung to have developed "5G" mobile systems able to transmit data hundreds of times faster than 4G networks, pointing out that its tests only apply to one element of the system needed to implement a standard.The key problem is that there is no agreed 5G standard – and may not be for years, explained Shahram Niri, deputy director of the 5G Innovation Centre at Centre for Communications Systems Research (CCSR) at the University of Surrey."There are a number of area in which this technology is being improved," Niri said. "What Samsung has done has touched on one of the areas relating to antennas, and with that achieved a higher data rate – but this is just one of many methods being examined to increase it."Other elements required to build the standard include the method of encoding data in the radio carrier wave and the frequencies to be used, Niri said. "Here in CCSR we have been working on several other areas."The CCSR hasaround £35m of funding, including £11m from the Higher Education Funding Council for England and another £24m from mobile phone operators and infrastructure providers, including Huawei, Samsung, Telefonica Europe, Fujitsu Laboratories of Europe, Rohde and Schwarz and Aircom International.Samsung this week said it had tested a new transceiver capable of sending and receiving data at speeds of more than 1,000 megabits per second (Mbps) over a distances up to two kilometres. That compares with 4G services that are now being implemented in the UK which offer average speeds of between 8 Mbps and 12 Mbps – which is still substantially faster than 3G services that have been in use since 2003."The new technology sits at the core of 5G mobile communications system and will provide data transmission up to several hundred times faster than current 4G networks," Samsung said in ablog post.Those transmission speeds would mean that an entire 640MB CD could be downloaded in five seconds, or a standard 4GB DVD in half a minute. At such speeds, users could have real-time streaming of ultra-high definition video, 3D movies or games, it said.The transmissions used in the test were made at the ultra-high 28GHz frequency, which offers far more bandwidth than the 800MHz frequencies used for some 4G networks in the UK and elsewhere. High frequencies can carry more data, but have the disadvantage that they generally can be blocked by buildings and lose intensity over longer distances.Niri points out though that standards have yet to be agreed – but that growing data use means it may happen more quickly than previous generations of mobile connectivity. "It takes a couple of years to develop and agree the best way to do this, and then one or two years to set the standards in committees," he said. "And then it takes another two or three years to deliver the systems on chips and do the testing." He thinks the standard could be agreed between 2015 and 2017, with commercial rollouts beginning in 2020.If Samsung's antenna systems form the basis of part of the standard, its patents would generate a consistent revenue stream through licensing to companies implementing 5G. Its patents already form part of the 3G and 4G/LTE standards.
Amazon.com's customers can now use Amazon "Coins" to buy apps and games from the online retailer, after it launched its own digital currency.All Kindle Fire owners in America were given 500 freeAmazon Coins– worth $5 (£3) – to mark the launch on Monday. The virtual money, emblazoned with a woman drawing a bow, is presently only available for US customers, who can use it to buy apps, games and in-app items from the Amazon Appstore, and for the Kindle Fire. Each coin is worth $0.01, with bulk purchases getting a discount of up to 10%. However taxes are still payable on items bought with the "coins" – making their usefulness questionable.Amazon said that the new currency was "an easy way to purchase apps and in-app items" for customers, and "another opportunity to drive traffic, downloads and increased monetisation" for developers."Today we are giving Kindle Fire owners $5 worth of Coins to spend on new apps and games, or to purchase in-app items, such as recipes in iCookbook, song collections in SongPop or mighty falcon bundles in Angry Birds Star Wars. And with discounts of up to 10% when you buy Coins, this is a great way for customers to save money when they buy apps, games and in-app items," said Mike George, vice president of apps and games at Amazon. "We will continue to add more ways to earn and spend Coins on a wider range of content and activities – today is day one for Coins."Purchased Amazon Coins never expire, the site says.Amazon Coins joins a range of virtual currencies offered by larger sites, including Microsoft'sPoints for its Xbox Livemarketplace andFacebook Credits. Sites generally do not allow people to swap accumulated points back into physical currency to avoid arbitrage (where users take advantage of currency fluctuations), money laundering and theft.The virtual currency has already received a mixed bag of reviews from early users. Out of 46 write-ups, eight reviewers gave it five stars. "Do you like to budget? Then Amazon Coins could be for you. Buy your selected amount and then use them for the month," wrote one user.But 13 customers gave the Amazon Coins just one star. "What is the purpose of this nonsense? Why waste time exchanging pennies for Coins? They can't be used to purchase merchandise. They can't be used to purchase ebooks," wrote a reviewer. "IMHO Amazon is wasting a lot of time and money creating massive nothingness."Another was less serious, writing: "My kids are leaving these 500 free Coins all over the frackin' house. They get stuck in the vacuum, my wife slipped on one and fell hard on the tile floor, and I keep unsuccessfully trying to use them in vending machines before realizing they aren't real money. Then last night the dog ate one and we had to take her to the vet to have it extracted from her colon. Figures that the vet wouldn't take the other 499 coins as payment towards the bill. Thanks Amazon, this has been SOME GIFT."
Finnish developer Supercell made waves in the mobile games industry in April when it claimed its Hay Day and Clash of Clans gamesmade $179m of revenues in the first quarter of 2013.Now even that achievement has been put in the shade by Japanese developer GungHo, whosePuzzle &amp; Dragonsmobile game made $113m in the month of April alone.The figure was announced in the company's latest financial results,translated by games industry consultant Dr Serkan Toto, who has been tracking GungHo's growth closely.The developer's revenues for Q1 were $303m, while its operating profit was $183m. Puzzle &amp; Dragon's $113m in April – all from in-app purchases – meant that game alone has been making just under $3.8m a day, compared to Supercell's $2.4m of daily revenues. The game isn't yet available in the UK, although it is in the US.The success has sent GungHo's stock price surging on the Osaka Stock Exchange. In his latest blog post,Toto notes that it has reached $15.1bn, more even than Nintendo, with its market cap of $15bn.Market caps don't tell the full story about a company's health and how it compares to others in its space, of course.GungHo's success is based almost entirely ona single game with 13m players, who could move on to another title as swiftly as they arrived at Puzzle &amp; Dragons – which, if you're new to it, blends match-three puzzles and RPG gameplay.The company's challenge now is to keep those players interested with new features, while planning new games. The same challenge that faces Supercell, Angry Birds maker Rovio and other firms with big mobile hits in the West.The money rolling in from Puzzle &amp; Dragons will give GungHo a good base to work from, as willa $265m investment from Japanese telecoms firm SoftBank, which bought a 58.5% stake in the company in March 2013.Puzzle & Dragons blends match-three puzzling with RPG elementsGungHo's success so far is just one element of a thriving mobile games scene in Japan. Messaging app Line, which runs its own platform for social mobile games,reported Q1 revenues of $58.8m, with half coming from in-app purchases in games.Meanwhile, social mobile game networks DeNA and GREE have been battling in their home market of Japan and abroad.DeNA posted revenues of $528mand an operating profit of $184m in Q1 2013, while GREE is about to announce its comparable financials.These companies' success so far puts the performance of Western games publishers into perspective.Electronic Arts' mobile revenues were $109min the first quarter of 2013, whileZynga's were $264macross web and mobile.Meanwhile,Rovio's revenues for the whole of 2012 were $197.6m, more than $100m less than GungHo's for Q1 2013 alone even though Angry Birds had 263m active players. For now, dragons trump birds in the app store revenue wars, it seems.
Remember Super Metroid? Indie developer Drinkbox certainly does, but with their latest PSN title they've decided that what Nintendo's classic really needed was fewer bounty hunters and space pirates, and a whole lot more sombreros.Guacamelee follows the adventures of barrel-chested agave farmer Juan as he attempts to rescue the daughter of "El Presidente" from the clutches of evil skeleton bandit Carlos Calaca, a quest that begins quite badly when Juan is immediately killed in his first confrontation.All is not lost though, as the game takes a quick rummage through the big bag of crazy plot contrivances and pulls out a magical wrestling mask, which instantly resurrects Juan as a superpowered Luchadore. Thus equipped, Juan sets out across a beautifully stylised version of rural Mexico, to rescue the damsel, beat up all the baddies and generally be all heroic and stuff.Mechanically, Guacamelee plays very similarly to the Metroid and Castlevania titles it's primarily paying homage to. Juan runs and jumps his way through the non-linear 2D stages, battling Calaca's various skeletal minions and locating the necessary upgrades to his powers that will allow him access to new areas (these powers are mainly acquired by locating and smashing "Chozo" statues, in another nod to its inspiration).Upgrades range from the faintly ridiculous, like Juan's morph-ball-esque ability to fit through small spaces by turning himself into a chicken, to the more impressive – a couple of hours in Juan acquires the ability to flip between the land of the living and the land of the dead at will, with platforms and enemies phasing in and out of solidity depending on which realm he's currently in. This sets up the possibility for some fiendish platforming shenanigans, and the game doesn't disappoint – the difficulty ratchets up quickly and you'll soon be expected to make use of a number of Juan's powers in sequence to get through the more complex sections.This puzzle-platform style could (and in the more difficult areas, occasionally does) get a little frustrating, but there's a satisfaction to be had from working out the correct way to apply Juan's skills to get to the next screen. Even failure generally inspires a bout of just-one-more-go syndrome, especially since the game leniently places Juan back on the starting ledge in the event of a plunge into the abyss.It's not all wall-jumping and spikes though, there's also plenty of fighting. Being a wrestler, Juan gets up close and personal with his foes, with a basic three-punch combo backed up by a jump kick and uppercut with which to batter his way through. A few quick hits will open up an enemy for a wrestling move, or a directionally controlled throw, which becomes really important later on – throwing enemies into others will skittle over the whole group and buy you a few seconds, and you'll need them.The combat is fast paced and fun, but the game likes to lock Juan in a room and throw waves of enemies at him, which does get a bit frantic, particularly once enemies start appearing with colour coded shields that can only be broken by a specific attack, or enemies that exist only in one dimension or the other (despite being able to hit you in both). Couple that to a slightly stiff dodge roll and the later fights can feel a bit unfairly overwhelming, unless you're packing a set of fly-meet-chopstick level twitch reflexes.So far, so old school, but Guacamelee has a few more tricks up its poncho to keep you interested, the first of which is the sumptuous art direction – Bizarro Mexico never looked so pretty. Everything is drawn in a distinctive angular style, swathed in bright colours and bold designs – even switching over to the murkier world of the dead still keeps everything looking great, with menacing purple skies and lurid green slime everywhere.Enemy designs are variously drawn from Mexican folklore and festivals, from the day of the dead skeletons to the flying Chupacabras, and they all animate nicely as Juan beats them up and throws them around.Another nice touch is that this is not a game that takes itself too seriously, being liberally sprinkled with goofy references to retro games culture and internet memes all over the place. You'll spot background references and parodies everywhere, such as posters stuck around town advertising the exploits of the familiar looking "Los Super Hermanos" wrestling tag team, or the road into the desert being plastered with what looks suspiciously like rage comics. These little visual gags don't really add anything to the gameplay, but they're fun to spot nonetheless.Downsides? Well, as mentioned earlier, the difficulty curve is quite steep and at various points both the platforming and the combat can get a little more frustrating than they should do. It's also quite short, clocking in at about five hours, but then that's maybe being unfair since it is after all only a tenner (and that's a cross-buy with the Vita version).I'm nitpicking though, Guacamelee is a pretty top-drawer product. It's charming, funny and good looking, while offering up a solid take on the timeless Metroidvania template – more than enough to send it suplexing its way into the top tier of PSN titles.• Game reviewed on PS3
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Bioshock Infinite hits 3.7 million sales | GamesIndustry.bizIn an investor conference call today, Take-Two chairman and CEO Strauss Zelnick announced that BioShock Infinite shipped 3.7 million units to date, with Borderlands 2 moving more than 6 million copies, and NBA 2K13 surpassing the 5 million-shipped mark. That trio helped push the publisher's full-year sales up 47 percent to $1.21 billion, up from nearly $825.82 million the year before. Those figures were also boosted by Max Payne 3, XCOM: Enemy Unknown, and catalog sales of Grand Theft Auto IV and Red Dead Redemption.This is all good news for a publisher that previously relied very heavily on GTA sales and other Rockstar releases. And it shows there's a market for action games that want to be thought of as cerebral.Danny Bilson: inside the rise and fall of THQ | Eurogamer.netThe ex-head of THQ speaks frankly about the fall of the company and his own sacking:"We had hope, okay. But it was a very difficult time. I'm not going to lie. Starting in December, after the uDraw disaster, it became very difficult. We were looking for investment. We were looking for any angle to make it work. We also closed off more things. We did narrow our line-up down after December."Cliff Bleszinski on next-gen gaming, Oculus Rift and the always-on console | EngadgetThe veteran game designer opines on what Sony and Microsoft will have to do to ensure their new machines are successful. According to him, it's all user-generated content and connectivity:"I think those who get it with the next generation will get the idea of connectivity and sharing and allowing the user to build the content. There was a great article in Wired a while back where they talked about the next generation of consoles, and could Minecraft happen on your console? I have a very good relationship with Microsoft, but [there are] a lot of TCRs you'd have to go through, all the stuff you'd have to go through to get your game on Xbox Live Arcade, or even issue updates on; it was a nightmare."The Voting Problem | Game Design AdvanceThis is an interesting on the 'illusion of choice' in game design and how the problems of providing options to gamer can be compared to voting:A recent twitter-conversation with Tommy Rousse about "Rawlsian game design" evolved into a broader discussion of the illusion of choice, situations where I think my actions are affecting the system, but they aren't really. Many (most?) gambling games have this problem. Game Designer Michael Brough snarkishly added that another system with an illusion of choice problem is voting. Michael's point is actually a valid and important one, and I think it's worth a closer look.Road Rash-inspired Road Redemption secures Kickstarter funding | PC GamerGood news about this much-vaunted Road Rash-style racer:Road Redemption, the Road Rash inspired racer by New Orleans' Darkseas Games, has reached its Kickstarter goal. It hit its base target of $160,000 only two days before deadline and, as is increasingly the case with these campaigns, a series of stretch goals have been announced, including Oculus Rift support.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Facebook Home, the app intended to turn Android phones into a sort of "Facebook phone", is struggling. Having taken almost a month to hit a million downloads from Google's Play store, more than half of the 16,000-odd reviews on the store give it just one star - the lowest grade possible - against 17% offering a 5-star review.Separately, AT&amp;T is reported to be preparing to abandon the Android-based HTC First - also known as the "Facebook Phone" - after having last week cut its price from $99 to just 99 cents on the phone which wasintroduced only at the beginning of April.Internally, Facebook is understood to be debating how to respond to the poor reception that Home - which was intended to be its foray into the smartphone market without actually having to produce its own phone.Reports suggest that sales of the HTC First have been comparatively small:BGR.com saysthat sources at AT&amp;T, the US's largest carrier, indicate that fewer than 15,000 of the phones had been sold by the end of its first month.By comparison, in the first three months of the yearAT&amp;T sold 6m smartphones, of which about 1m were Android phones - an average of more than 300,000 per month.BGR says that the price cut will be used to try to shift stock, and that any surplus inventory will then be returned to HTC - creating a problem for the Taiwanese company, which in itsfirst quarter barely made a profitbut which had promised strong sequential growth in revenues for the April-June period.The HTC First is the company's second attempt to create a "Facebook phone" after the HTC Chacha in spring 2011, an Android phone with a dedicated button to let people update their Facebook status."With that one slash of the knife, AT&amp;T has confirmed what everyone had already gathered; the Facebook phone is proving very unpopular," commented Richard Windsor of the RadioFreeMobile consultancy. ."If this was an isolated incident, then one could put it down to poor hardware, but installations and reviews of the software on other devices have also been poor."Adam Mosseri, Facebook's product management director,told Mercury News in Aprilsaid that "This is just the start".Facebook Home is an app launcher for Android phones which in effect takes over the phone, pushing normal apps to the background; the home screen shows photos from the user's Facebook feed, comments from the user's News Feed, and "Chat Heads" of friends with notifications.Facebook's challenge is to create a mobile app that is compelling for users: data suggests that it is the most-used application on smartphones, taking up 18% of all usage in its own right.But in trying to expand its influence beyond social networking so that it can mine the user's entire experience on the phone, Facebook seems to have stumbled.Facebook Home was initially available only on a limited range of phones - the HTC One X, HTC First, Samsung Galaxy S3 and Samsung Galaxy Note 2. Those are reckoned to be a small proportion of the total Android installed base in the US, which is one of Facebook's largest markets.Windsor said: "Facebook Home looked to me like the right idea but its execution and design appears to be somewhat clumsy and the users simply do not like it. The failure of Home is not a disaster; it just means that Facebook needs to try another way to engage users outside of social networking. Something less invasive, more intuitive and above all, more fun seems to be the order of the day."
Facebook may bestruggling to win hearts (and installs)with its Facebook Home app, but it's not the only social networking service keen to take over users' Android homescreens.Korean startup Kakao has launchedKakaoHomein its home country: a similar "launcher" app that provides "a customized home screen experience on your smartphone" with widgets, notifications and deeper integration of the mainKakaoTalkmessaging service.Features include the ability to check notifications for the KakaoTalk, KakaoStory and KakaoGame apps; reply to KakaoTalk messages without launching the standalone app; free themes; and widgets including weather forecasts, a clock and a task killer.Although seemingly not available in the West yet, KakaoHome's launch is big news in South Korea. KakaoTalk has signed up 90m registered users across iOS, Android, Windows Phone and BlackBerry since its launch in 2010. The main KakaoTalk app has been installed more than 50m times on Android alone.It's one of a cluster of similar apps from the Asia-Pacific region – WeChat and Line are the other key ones – that are hugely popular at home, and hoping to expand their success in the West. WeChat has 300m registered users, and Line 150m.Industry analyst Informa Telecoms &amp; Media has predicted that such "over-the-top" (OTT) messaging appswill be generating 41bn messages a daybetween their users by the end of 2013: more than double the 19.5bn daily text messages sent using SMS. The OTT category also includes Western apps like WhatsApp, Kik Messenger and Viber.The Asian apps combine instant messaging with social games and sales of virtual items – digital stickers and emoticons in particular – making their money from in-app purchases (IAP).Line reported $58.8m of revenuesfor the first quarter of 2013, with 50% coming from IAP in games, and 30% from sales of virtual stickers. However, its iOS app caused a clash with Apple, whichforced Line to remove the ability for users to send purchased stickers as gifts to friendsearlier in May.KakaoTalk, meanwhile,generated $42m of revenues for Kakao in 2012according to e27, ending that year with 29m daily active users sending 4.8bn messages a day.KakaoTalk's social games platform has been proving lucrative for developers, though. In March, the chief executive of Korean publisher Com2Ustold VentureBeatthat "On Kakao, it takes only two weeks to one month to get to a million users. The market is really changing", claiming that the top games on KakaoTalk were generating $1m-$2m a day.Kakao is also trying to boost the developer ecosystem around its apps,partnering with the South Korean government in April 2013for a $27m investment fund aimed at startups.With1.1bn monthly active users and 665m daily active users at the end of March 2013, Facebook still dwarfs the size of KakaoTalk and its rivals on a global basis.But with mobile an increasingly important focus for the social network – "Today there's no argument: Facebook is a mobile company,"said chief executive Mark Zuckerberg in January 2013– it can't afford to underestimate the threat posed by the messaging apps.With Facebook Home's momentum under scrutiny, the launch of KakaoHome reinforces that threat.
Note: the daily launch time for this post will in future be 0730 UK time.A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHTC First discontinued by AT&amp;T: first 'Facebook phone' a flop &gt;&gt; BGRZach Epstein:The HTC First, or "Facebook phone" as many prefer to call it, is officially a flop. It certainly wasn't a good sign whenAT&amp;T dropped the price of HTC's First to $0.99 just one month after its debut, and now BGR has confirmed that HTC and Facebook's little experiment is nearing its end. BGR has learned from a trusted source that sales of the HTC First have been shockingly bad. So bad, in fact, that AT&amp;T has already decided to discontinue the phone.The first phone to ship with Facebook Home preinstalled. Unsold inventory is going back to HTC. Bad news for both companies.You can do too much due diligence &gt;&gt; A VCFred Wilson on what he found when looking into Feedburner in 2004:As part of our investment process, we do a bunch of fact gathering/checking work that is called Due Diligence in the vernacular of the VC business. So my partner Brad Burnham and I put together a list of leading blogs and online publishers who had popular RSS feeds at the time. I think there were a dozen or so publications on that list. It included Weblogs (Engadget), Gawker (Gawker), NY Times, and a bunch more. We know most everyone who ran those operations so we called them.What we heard was surprising. Not one of them was willing to hand over their RSS feed to a third party for analytics and monetization. We were very surprised to hear that and thought a bit about it. But, we decided, we could not invest in something that the big publishers would not support.And then...New magnetic graphene may revolutionise electronics &gt;&gt; PhysordThe technique involves growing an ultra perfect grapheme film over a ruthenium single crystal inside an ultra high vacuum chamber whereorganic molecules of tetracyano-p-quinodimethane (TCNQ) are evaporated on the grapheme surface. TCNQ is a molecule that acts as a semiconductor at very low temperatures in certain compounds.Don't worry, Cody Wilson's working on the downloadable make-it-at-home version right now. (Thanks @Sputnikkers for the link.)New closed-captioning glasses help deaf go out to the movies &gt;&gt; NPRRachel Rood:There will be a special attraction for deaf people in theaters nationwide soon. By the end of this month, Regal Cinemas plans to have distributed closed-captioning glasses to more than 6,000 theaters across the [US].Sony Entertainment Access Glasses are sort of like 3-D glasses, but for captioning. The captions are projected onto the glasses and appear to float about 10 feet in front of the user. They also come with audio tracks that describe the action on the screen for blind people, or they can boost the audio levels of the movie for those who are hard of hearing.This is a big moment for the deaf, many of whom haven't been to the movies in a long time. Captioned screenings are few and far between, and current personal captioning devices that fit inside a cup holder with a screen attached are bulky, display the text out of their line of vision to the screen, and distract the other patrons.Excellent application of technology. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Google axed SMS Search thinking people wouldn't notice &gt;&gt; GizmodoGoogle created SMS Search as a way for users with limited or no data on their phones to access search information. You could text a search query to 466453 and receive an SMS reply containing only text, no links. It was useful to a lot of people back in the day, but it's not surprising that the service has been losing popularity.Wouldn't it still be useful in Africa and other places where data access is limited? For those who are counting - it was killed after 1,409 days. Of 96 Google services that have been killed off, the mean lifetime is 1,459 days. Mean lifetime of 93 Google services still operating: 1,776 days. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)New Coke? &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:Full disclosure: I like [Microsoft head of PR] Frank Shaw quite a bit. He's got a tough job and to be fair he's doing the right thing in defending his company.But ina recent post to the Official Microsoft Blog, Mr. Shaw called out The Financial Times and The Economist, two staid publications that made the mistake of correctly identifying the core problem with Windows these days. I can only imagine what he thinks of me right now.In the wake of a mini-publicity tour in which Microsoft executives tried to paint its about-face with Windows 8.1 "Blue" as an example of it "listening to customer feedback," these publications have correctly suggested that this never would have happened had the Windows team simply listened to customer feedback during the six-year buildup to Windows 8 instead.Respect the crowd &gt;&gt; Bitsplitting.orgFormer Apple staffer Daniel Jalkut on Apple's non-updating Maps:I used to sing the praises of my iPhone above all competitors. Now, when I am jarred from my fanboy-hypnosis, staring down at an alleged life-changer that doesn't know how to get me from point A to point B, I'm not so convinced I can defend it.In order for Apple's customers to continue "reporting a problem" with Maps, they need to feel that their reports are having some impact. They need to feel respected. Ideally, good reports would lead to timely corrections on a mass level that would benefit all other iOS users. Anecdotally, this is not happening. So at a minimum a user's own report should be respected by the device they hold in their hands. Let the customer know their voice was heard by improving the usability of their device immediately. Customers demand confidence in map data, whether it be from Apple or fine-tuned by their own hand. If we can't count on map data, we won't use the app, we won't report problems, and we won't help Apple one iota in shoring up this massive shortcoming.Whoever talks about Maps on stage at Apple's WWDC in June will have to have a really persuasive offering.The problem with Wikipedia &gt;&gt; cartesian productAdrian McMenamin:Wikipedia has a real blind spot when it comes to covering to Africa – there are more articles on "Middle Earth" than many African states and there are perhaps 10 times as many wikipedia edits (in any language) originated in the United Kingdom than in all of Africa.And that's not the only problem – 91% of Wikipedia editors are male and, of course, that is contributing to Wikipedia's growing reputation as the home of the same sort of maladjusted and poor socialised individuals who inhabit various parts of the "open source" software world.That's not the rudest thing he says, either.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
The backlash against Mark Zuckerberg's political advocacy group is gathering steam with a campaign to pick off many of its high-profile Silicon Valley backers.Activists on Monday identified the next batch of figures they hope will defect following the departure of Elon Musk and David Sacks, adding fresh pressure to Zuckerberg's nascentFwd.usorganisation.Musk and Sacks quit last week after accusations the Facebook founder's political lobby group, set up to push for immigration reform, had made an unholy alliance with anti-environmental politicians."It's time for other tech industry luminaries to make it clear where they stand. Follow Elon Musk's example and resign from Fwd.us," said Credo, the advocacy arm of Credo Mobile,in a petitionwhich by Monday afternoon had 32,000 signatures.It singled out LinkedIn's Reid Hoffman, eBay's John Donahoe, Yahoo's Marissa Mayer and Kleiner Perkins' John Doerr for pressure from critics of Zuckerberg's initiative.The billionaire launched hisboldest foray into politicsin March, vowing to mobilise grassroots activists and tech moguls into a force to overhaul US immigration laws. Current restrictions curb Silicon Valley's ability to recruit and nurture foreign talent.Fwd.us said it would help re-elect conservative and liberal politicians alike as long as they supported immigration reform.The group triggered an outcry, however, by funding television advertisements touting the pro-oil views of Lindsay Graham, who champions the Keystone XL pipeline, and Mark Begich, who wants drilling in the Alaska National Wildlife Preserve.A liberal coalition including the Sierra Club, the League of Conservation Voters andMoveOn.organnounced last week it wouldtemporarily suspendbuying advertisements on Facebook, a largely symbolic protest.Musk, who as chief executive of Tesla Motors has staked his reputation on green technology, quit Zuckerberg's group on Friday, saying immigration reform should not be pursued at the expense of other important causes."I have spent a lot of time fighting far larger lobbying organizations in DC, and believe that the right way to win on a cause is to argue the merits of that cause,"he said. "This statement may surprise some people, but my experience is that most (not all) politicians and the staffs want to do the right thing and eventually do."Sacks, who founded the social network Yammer, was widely reported to also have quit the organisation but has yet to make a public statement.Credo Action, the advocacy arm of the cellphone networker Credo Mobile, urged Zuckerberg's critics to keep up the momentum with direct appeals to his remaining prominent tech allies, such as Hoffman, Donahoe, Mayer and Doerr."Silicon Valley stars … are sensitive to public backlash from the people who power their social networks or use their products or services. If enough of us push back and keep this issue in the public eye, they will be under immense pressure, not just from us but from their staff and shareholders, to stop supporting Fwd.us," it said.A spokesperson for the lobby group,speaking to the New York Timeslast week before Musk's announcement, brushed off criticism. "We recognize that not everyone will always agree with or be pleased by our strategy. Fwd.us remains totally committed to support a bipartisan policy agenda that will boost the knowledge economy, including comprehensive immigration reform."Supporters point out that Bill Gates and other heavyweights remain on board and that the lobbying reflects Silicon Valley's can-do, goal-oriented ethos.The Fwd.us sitehas ignored the controversy, and Zuckerberg has declined to comment.TechCrunchfuelled the perceptionof a beleaguered enterprise with an article analysing why it had become reviled even by some of its own members."There's a reason most lobbies don't bother with grassroots activism: communities don't get excited about the kinds of soul-crushing moral compromise necessary in DC politics. So, when Fwd.us rolled up with millions in hand claiming to be the voice of the technologists, those who felt misrepresented freaked out. Even more confusing, when confronted, Fwd.us chose to do something no other major organization in technology has done: it remained silent."The article noted that Twitter co-founder Evan Williamstweeted a linkto a scathing blog post from Branch CEO Josh Miller."In service of noble causes, Fwd.us is employing questionable lobbying techniques, misleading supporters, and not being transparent about the underlying values and long-term intentions of the organization. More discouragingly, the leaders of the technology industry (and of Fwd.us) have built their careers on bringing meaningful change to the world. They should be doing the same in Washington."
At more than $20,000 per minute, it's going to be a hell of a coffee break. A charity auction offering the highest bidderhalf an hour with Apple chief executive Tim Cookstood at $605,000 (£395,000) on Monday night.Even before an expected last-minute flurry of interest when the auction on the Charitybuzz website closes at 9pm UK time on Tuesday, the current highest bid means the 30 minutes or so the meeting is expected to last will generate two and a half times as much as when the site auctioned an entire day with former president Bill Clinton, which went for $255,000.The bid for Cook almost reaches the site's previous record, when in March it auctioned off a Lamborghini Aventador LP 700-4 Roadster for $610,000.The highest bidder for Cook at the time of writing declined to give a name – leaving it just as "J********n". Previous bidders have included companies that make accessories and covers for Apple devices.But there isn't necessarily any expectation that Cook will spill the beans at the meeting on whatever Apple might be planning, explained Rakesh Kumar, founder of the five-strong startup Drbluetooth.com, which put forward $580,000 a week ago but was quickly outbid."It would give us a chance to showcase the whole concept of what we're doing to him," Kumar said. "What we can show on our website is very limited in comparison."Winning the auction will require a $610,000 bid at least, and require Kumar to call on a 14-strong group of family and friends who have pledged to help pay if he wins. But he hopes that doing so could also bring the company, set up in Sunnyvale, California just nine months ago, to the attention of high-profile investors – even if Cook himself doesn't want to put Apple's money into it."I'm sure he would give us some frank opinions," Kumar said.The money from the auction is being donated to the Robert Kennedy Centre for Justice and Human Rights. It marks a huge success for Charitybuzz, which has auctioned time with celebrities ranging from U2's Bono ($211,000) to Paul McCartney ($130,000 for a meeting), as well as cars, autographed instruments, and even a walk-on part in Scary Movie 5 ($100,000).Having crashed through the $500,000 mark just two days after beginning, the auction is now restricted to bidders who have proved the financial bona fides to a bank, so that the bids are certain to be paid."Charitybuzz is blown away by the incredible support we've seen for the RFK Center for Justice and Human Rights through our coffee with Tim Cook online auction. It looks like this could break Charitybuzz's record for the top-grossing auction item since the company's launch in 2005. With 140 experiences on the auction block closing this Tuesday to benefit the RFK Center, including exclusive access to Robert De Niro, Alec Baldwin, Peyton Manning and more, we expect to raise well over one million dollars for human rights," said Coppy Holzman, Charitybuzz CEO and founder.Sadly, Charitybuzz isn't able to generate as much excitement around every celebrity whose time it is auctioning.An auction to "Get up close and personal with Piers Morgan on the set of CNN's Piers Morgan Live", whichcloses at 11pm BST on Tuesday, has attracted just four bids at the time of writing since bidding began on 23 April, the day before Cook's. And the current top bid of $2,250 is less than half the estimated value.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.Looking for Android apps? Checkthis week's 30 best Android apps roundup, which was published earlier in the day.Here's this week's comparable iOS selection:The Doors (£2.99)This tablet app sits somewhere between a box-set and coffee-table book in its efforts to put The Doors' career in perspective, with articles, photos, videos and a wealth of material on Jim Morrison and his bandmates – including a graphic novel to tell the infamous Miami Incident story. For more background to the app, readthis interview with Elektra Records founder Jac Holzman, who put the project together.iPadRunning With Friends (Free)Zynga's latest social "With Friends" game is more action-oriented than its predecessors: a Temple Run-style endless runner game with Pamplona-esque bull-running, and head-to-head score-battles against your Facebook friends (or, if you prefer, against strangers and/or people whose usernames you know). The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the separate iPad version.iPhone / iPadFourFourTwo Magazine (Free)Still the best monthly read for football fans, magazine FourFourTwo is making the leap to the iOS Newsstand with this iPad app. It offers a redesigned version of the print edition with video interviews and screen-filling photos, with individual issues costing £2.99 and subscriptions available too.iPadMy Penguin (Free)Alongside Moshi Monsters, Club Penguin is one of the roaring successes in the children's online games / virtual worlds space. Now it's launched an iPad app that, although it doesn't offer the full Club Penguin experience on a tablet, at least synchronises well with its parent. It offers five mini-games to play, with children able to earn virtual coins to be spent on customising their penguin avatar here or in the main world.iPadSnoop Dogg's Snoopify Sticker Camera! (Free)Snoop Dogg's new release is a photo-sharing app called Snoopify,covered in more detail earlier in May. It's about taking photos, customising them with Snoop-themed virtual stickers, and sharing on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Some stickers are free, but others are bought in packs via in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadStory by Disney (Free)From Dogg back to Disney, although puzzlingly Story isn't available on the UK App Store at the time of writing. American parents may be enjoying it though: it's a family-focused app for sharing photos and videos as "moments", both within the Story community and on Facebook, or external blogs and sites.iPhoneThe Terrifying Building in Eyeville (£0.69)To many parents and children, this will just be a good story about a town named Eyeville disrupted by a villain named Kanser, whose "dreadful building" spreads throughout the town. But to others, it will be much more important and valuable: an allegorical tale that aims to help adults explain cancer to children – whether the kids have it themselves, or know a friend or family member that does.iPhone / iPadNational Rail Enquiries for iPad (Free)You can already access the UK's National Rail Enquiries website through your browser on the iPad, but now it has launched a native app too. It includes journey-planning, live departure and arrival boards, a fast feature to get you home from wherever you currently are (or, at least show you how to do it), and tweets from train operating companies about disruption on the lines.iPadThe Loop Magazine (Free)Keen Apple-watchers know all about Jim Dalrymple's The Loop website, which has forged a strong reputation for its lack of me-too coverage of Apple – not to mention other tech, design and gaming topics. Now it's got a Newsstand magazine app, with Dalrymple and guests writing in fortnightly issues for a £1.49 monthly subscription.iPhone / iPadEquilibrium – Choose Our Destiny (£1.49)"Would you fight to save our world from irrevocable destruction... or push it kicking and screaming over the edge?" No, not an agenda bullet-point from David Cameron's next Cabinet meeting, but the pitch for iPhone game Equilibrium, which combines physics-based puzzles with alternate reality gaming (ARG). Your scores are aggregated into a global team, with Twitter used to publish the game's developing storyline.iPhoneBespoke Offers (Free)Here comes another hot young startup with a location-based daily deals app. Little-known Barclays Bank is... Wait, what? Yes,thatBarclays has a new offers app for Android that promises to showcase discounts from businesses and retailers near your physical location.iPhoneDevoBots (£0.69)If Snoopify was good for showing music artists' apps don't just have to be about shoving news, tweets and buy-links onto phones, DevoBots is just as fun. Produced for new-wavers Devo by a developer named Kit Robot, it's part synthesizer (armed with samples from Devo's back catalogue, obviously) and part robot-avatar creator. Inventive, and very fun indeed.iPhone / iPadWrite for Dropbox (£1.49)Already out for iPhone, the excellent Write is now available on iPad too. It's a marvellously-minimalist word processor / note-taker which synchronises all your documents using Dropbox, and has some clever features to work with the iPhone version – such as remote typing and a remote clipboard.iPadAtlas: Scheduling Re-Invented for Mobile (Free)Another productivity app in a year that's seeing lots of innovation around email, calendars and meetings. The latter are the focus here, promising to make "1-1 scheduling and group scheduling easy and elegant". It helps you schedule meetings from your calendar rather than from your inbox, with dial-in numbers for conference calls close to hand, and the ability to sync with Google Calendar, iCal, Yahoo or Outlook.iPhoneSid Meier's Ace Patrol (Free)As the man behind Civilization, Railroad Tycoon and Pirates!, Sid Meier could retire safe in the knowledge that his place in gaming's history is secured. Instead, he's getting involved in the freemium mobile games world with Ace Patrol, a World War I dogfighting game with 30 planes and 120 missions to fly through.iPhone / iPadHipstamatic Oggl (Free)Photo-sharing app Hipstamatic never became as popular as Instagram, but the people who loved itreallyloved it. Now the company is trying something new: still photo-sharing with the lenses (filters) from its original app, but with a user interface that may have wider appeal. The app shares to its own community as well as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Foursquare, Tumblr and Flickr, and will charge by subscription.iPhoneFraggle Friends Forever (£2.49)Fraggle Rock is back, Back, BACK! Courtesy of Cupcake Digital and The Jim Henson Company, this app marks the Fraggles' debut on iOS with a story about Boober coming "face to face with a very big, very hungry, very ticklish Slurp" (kids, ask your parents. In fact, young parents, ask YOUR parents...) Interactive activities include mini-games and colouring.iPhone / iPadBang With Friends (Free)This official app for the find-out-which-of-your-Facebook-friends-wants-to-have-sex-with-you website is officially called BWF on iOS, which I wonder is down to Apple's approvals team. Anyway, You sign in with Facebook, select which friends you fancy and then get to message any that have also chosen you. "Completely private &amp; discreet until both friends are down to bang," claims its Google Play listing, although last weekThe Daily Dot noticedthatclicking this linkreveals which of your friends are using the service.iPhoneEurovision Song Contest - The Official App (iPhone)It's Eurovision time again this week, and just in time there's an official app. Besides news leading up to the semi-finals and final, the app promises artist biographies and best of alllyrics as each song is played. And this being Eurovision, the lyrics will be worth waiting for.FreeAlphabeasties (£2.49)One last children's app to finish off the week. This is a guide to the alphabet for 3-6 year-olds, based on 26 "letter-tracing beastie-revealing activities", as well as digital colouring and stickering. It covers upper and lower-case letters, connecting the letter names to starting sounds for kids starting to learn their ABCs, or progressing on to reading.iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
A revealing TV interview has revealed a softer side to Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, who spoke of being able to spend time visiting Steve Jobs towards the end of his life.The lengthy interview initially focused on theGates Foundation's work tackling preventable disease, but shifted gently on to Gates'a friendship with Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, who died in October 2011 of a cancer-related illness."When he was sick I got to go down and spend time with him," he toldCharlie Rose on CBS's 60 Minutes. "We talked about what we'd learned, about families, everything. He was not being melancholy, it was very forward-looking, saying we haven't really improved education with technology."He showed me the boat he was working on and said he was looking forward to being on it, even though we both knew there was a good chance that wouldn't happen. Thinking about your potential mortality isn't very productive."Steve Jobs in 1981 Photograph: Tony Korody/Sygma/CorbisDespite the intense competition between the two firms, Gates described how he  Jobs "grew up together", maintaining their friendship since they first met in the late 1970s. Gates was asked to define Jobs's and Apple's success in contrast to Microsoft."We did lots of tablets well before Apple did but they put the pieces together in a way that succeeded," said Gates. "His sense of design, that everything had to fit a certain aesthetic, the fact that he, with as little engineering background as he had – it shows that design can lead you in a certain direction so that phenomenal products came out of it."He knew about brand in a very positive sense. He had an intuitive sense of marketing that was amazing."Gates left his course at Harvard to found work on the project which became Microsoft, incorporated in 1976.Gates and Jobs also made a rare but well received appearance on stage together at theAll Things Digital conferencein 2007. When asked about their friendship, Jobs said that at the start of their careers they had each got used to being the youngest in the room – but now they had got used to being the oldest.Jobs referred to a line from theBeatles song Two of Us, promoting a reverent sigh of affection from the crowd. "I think of most things in life as either a Bob Dylan or a Beatles song, but there's that one line in that one Beatles song ... 'You and I have memories longer than the road that stretches out ahead'."Steve Jobs and Bill Gates speaking together at the All Things Digital conference in California, 2007.Walter Isaacson's authorised biography of Steve Jobsrevealed that Jobs spent $100,000 on DNA sequencing to tailor his cancer treatment accordingly."A doctor told Mr Jobs that the pioneering treatments of the kind he was undergoing would soon make most cancers a manageable chronic disease. Later, Mr Jobs told Mr Isaacson that we was going be one of the first 'to outrun a cancer like this' or be among the last 'to die from it'."
The hype and noise around Google Glass has been colossal – triggering discussions about privacy, the limits of wearable computing, and social interaction in a world where the internet is available just an eye-glance away.But what's it like to use Google Glass? I spoke to Michael DiGiovanni, an emerging technology leader atIsobar, a global digital marketing company – and who earlier this month released Winky, which is "Glassware" (an app for Glass) that lets you take a picture by winking.DiGiovanni has quite a history in apps. As an Android developer for Barnes &amp; Noble.com, he was instrumental in the creation of the Nook app for Android devices and contributed to the reading experience of the Nook Color device.As an independent mobile developer, he has brought apps through the entire development process from conception to release. His self-published software on the Android market totals over 300,000 downloads and none has less than four stars.How long have you been using Google Glass, and what are your first impressions?DiGiovanni:Two weeks ago I got to pick them up – and I've been using them non-stop. It takes a while to get used to them. But I've been wearing them while driving, walking, essentially all the time. It's quite similar to wearing glasses – I don't normally – but without something sitting in front of your eyeballs.The display is just outside your normal range of vision, so that you have to roll your eyes upwards – it sits on the top right. I turned it on by nods. You can still wear them while driving and know that you are not going to be interrupted by something popping up in your view.The software experience is primarily voice activated. You say "OK Glass" and then "take a picture", or "Google something" or "give me directions to somewhere".You can ask it maths questions, you know like "what is two plus two" as you can in Google, as well. As you take pictures, and emails and text messages come in, they go into your timeline which is shown in the display. If you're driving or going somewhere, you get a Google Map with directions. It's much better than having a sat nav – much less distracting, because you're not really taking your attention down off the road – you still have your head up, though you do look up to the right.You enhance the experience with apps, called Glassware – think of them as micro-web pages. There's some HTML that can be pushed in there. So I got the New York Times headlines pushed there into my timeline. But they don't take priority over other things.What about reports that people have developed headaches from using Google Glass for a while?I haven't had any headaches. People who have have been those who have tried it very briefly, for a few minutes. One of the nice things about what Google's doing now with this Explorers programme [in which it is seeding Glass with a few thousand people around the US] is that they let you pick them up from their offices and outlets. So you get a personalised service, where they fit them to your face. [Google Glass has adjustable elements for the bridge of the nose, like normal spectacles.]If you're wearing it incorrectly, so that the prism is blocking your view, then you will have something out of focus in your view and that will give you a headache, I think. So those people who've reported having headaches, I think it's because they haven't had them fitted right.Here's what I think – my wife got a new pair of eyeglasses the other day and had to go back to get them fitted perfectly. With Glass, you can bend them yourself, but they can do it much quicker at Google than you can on your own, because they've had the experience.With the general consumer market, I would expect that they would have some sort of experience in store so that people don't get a bad experience from trying to fit them on their own.(That could explain the rumours thatGoogle is going to set up stores specifically to sell Google Glass: if it needs individual attention to get right, then it wouldn't be the same as buying a phone or computer by mail order.)Tell us about theWinky app[which allows Glass users to take a photo simply by winking].The Winky app isn't what Google considers normal Glassware. It's basically a mobile app like you would put on an Android phone. It's undocumented, officially unsupported. We have the tools and debug capability to create it, and it works, but there's no documentation.(There'svideo of the app hereand more onDiGiovanni's Google+ page.)What differentiates Glass from other products is the sensors for things like winking or voice recognition. At present, it only does a location update once every 10 minutes. But I think you could treat it like any Android device and change that to the default for those – which is once every 20 milliseconds. Then you could get access to the camera and do stuff with computer vision. Or you could get access to the accelerometer [which detects sudden changes in velocity] and trigger it by, say, nods.What's the battery life like?There's varying experiences with that. It goes from two hours to six hours – I have seen people online say that they only got a couple of hours from it. But yesterday there was a new update, XC5, which is supposed to change that and improve the battery life. For instance, it used to be that when you took a photo it would automatically upload it to Google+. But the new update will only upload when it's being charged and is connected to a Wi-Fi network. That should improve the battery life because it won't have to connect all the time to take photos.What are your general impressions of Glass?This is much better put together than I ever expected to get. I don't think it's ready for the average consumer because of the battery life. And assuming the price point isn't one that most people will want for something that is basically showing you email and text. I think people will be mostly using it as a cellphone accessory.But in some businesses it could revolutionise working life. Anywhere you could use an extra hand, or have extra data in front of your eyes. So, you know, a restaurant chef who needs to see what the orders stacking up are. Or if you're carrying something it means you don't have to pull out your phone. Or a point-of-sale systems, where shop assistants can help customers directly on the shop floor.What are the onscreen maps and directions like?The Maps system is one of the best features currently. The walking directions are really good – as you turn, you will see the screen turn with you. I've never been able to get that to work with my smartphone, that when I turn that the map display turns with it. It means that rather than walking around and trying to find where you are, you know where you are.When driving, I found it better than the GPS on my car dashboard. The best thing is that you aren't taking your eyes off the road as much as you would when using a GPS.I know it's scary to some people to have a display up there by your eyes. But in practice, it's not distracting at all. It's easier to look at than the rear view mirror.What smartphone are you using?I've got a Samsung Galaxy Note 2 with an extended battery. It connects to Glass via Bluetooth. Without a data connection, Glass is a bit limited.What about storage – for those times when you aren't wearing your Google Glass? I've heard that the arms don't fold like standard glasses.It's true, the arms don't bend. If you had to take them off – say if you're going into some place that says you're not allowed to wear them – well, I'd throw them around my neck. Or push them up into my hair, like sunglasses.But there are certainly places that won't want something that can do recording. Casinos in the US don't want you to have anything able to record what's going on [because you could be counting cards, or transmitting and receiving information about the game from someone outside who is counting].Google does provide a carry case for them, which it fits into. Women might be able to put that into their purse, but a man might be out of luck.That's one of the biggest problems – if you go somewhere and the owners don't want you to have them, where do you put them.How long did it take to get used to wearing them?About three days.What's the reaction been like from other people? There have been mixed reports. What's your experience?I've had an amazingly positive reaction from people. I haven't seen any negative reactions at all. The most "negative" reaction was from security guards who wanted to know if I was recording them. But when I explained that I wasn't, then they were really interested, and they wanted them for their job so they could film or photograph to demonstrate that they were doing things as they should.In my experience, once you explain to people what it does then they get really excited. I've even had staunch iPhone users who are really excited about wearables. [Google Glass can work with iPhones; it uses the Bluetooth and data connections.]I thought people would be turned off by wearing something. Turns out that's not the case at all.Google Glass is expected to go on general sale either late in 2013 or in 2014. No price has yet been set, though "Glass Explorers" – of whom DiGiovanni is one – are paying around $1,500 per pair.
