It's not that hard to think of something totally original. If you don't worry about it being any good, it's easy. "Colorless green ideas sleep furiously," wasNoam Chomsky's spirited attempt in his ground-breaking 1957 book on linguistics,Syntactic Structures. "Hold the newsreader's nose squarely, waiter, or friendly milk will countermand my trousers," wasStephen Fry's during an episode of A Bit Of Fry And Laurie. But whennovelist John Gardnerused the phrase&nbsp;"opening the throttle at the last moment" in his 1983 bookIcebreaker, it's unlikely that he&nbsp;sat back and congratulated himself on being the first to have written it. Innovation wasn't what he was aiming for, after all; he was just trying to describe someone driving a scooter. But&nbsp;Google Books, that vast indexing project, informs us that Gardner's was the only book to contain this phrase until another,Vestige Of Evil by Len Vorster,appeared on Amazon in 2011. A&nbsp;section of the novel, one of two books self-published online under that name, featured other phrases that were no longer unique to Icebreaker, such as "the ice and snow were not as raw and killing as this" and "the slope angling gently downwards to flatten". The many coincidences were startling, though if it wasn't for the internet, nobody need ever have known.In fact, if it wasn't for the internet, there might never have been a Vestige Of Evil. Vorster (not the Australian concert pianist of the same name, and most likely a nom de plume) appears, like millions of others, to have been inspired by the sheer quantity of online content and the new opportunities for digital self-expression. With a&nbsp;potential audience of billions, the prospect of contributing can be thrilling; meanwhile, the moral responsibility we traditionally attach to creative expression has been downgraded by the sheer ease of copying someone else's work. When Richard Condon lifted sentences wholesale fromRobert Graves' I,&nbsp;Claudiusand quietly stuck them intoThe Manchurian Candidate, he did it the good old-fashioned way. Today, technology covertly assists us: ctrl+C to copy images, prose, code, video and more, ctrl+V to paste. The consequences of this can range from sly postings of other people's witticisms on Twitter in pursuit of retweet glory, to print-on-demand books that are merely duplicates of other books. Driven by a&nbsp;combination of greed, confusion, ignorance, pressure, laziness and ambition, an increasing number of people are looking at stuff other people have done and thinking, "Wow. That's really good. I'll pretend that I did it."Justin M Damiano, a story by American comic artistDaniel Clowes, was published in 2008 as part of a collection of 23 short stories entitledThe&nbsp;Book Of Other People. It told the tale of a film critic experiencing an internal struggle over whether or not to review a film positively, and it may have languished in relative obscurity had the storyline and dialogue not been used by actor-directorShia LaBeoufin a short film entitledHoward Cantour.com, which received its online premiere last December. The similarities between the two were quickly noted, as was the absence of&nbsp;any acknowledgment of Clowes' work; by effectively pretending it was his own story, LaBeouf had committed what American judge Richard A Posner describes in his bookThe&nbsp;Little Book Of Plagiarismas "the capital intellectual crime". Intellectual, because there's no law against plagiarism. Sure, copyright violation is a&nbsp;prosecutable offence, and Clowes' lawyer immediately pursued LaBeouf's for a response on&nbsp;that score. But copyright eventually expires, and even if Clowes had been dead for 200 years, LaBeouf would still have stood accused of plagiarism. It was that moral offence, the act of&nbsp;passing off someone else's work as your own, that caused a familiar tsunami of offence to roar across social media channels.The Justin M Damiano story used by Shia LaBeouf for his short film. Image: © Daniel Clowes"It's a problem for me, it really is," says Edward Champion, managing editor of an American blog,Reluctant Habits, which has frequently expressed contempt for plagiarists. He expounds at length on the subject, relishing his rhetoric. "When you see someone desecrate this wonderful, noble medium by not being assed to try to find a&nbsp;new&nbsp;form of expression," he says, "it's basically&nbsp;a&nbsp;writer signalling utter contempt for the&nbsp;reader. The plagiarist, to me, is the kind of irredeemable hood that would take bad writing to&nbsp;a ne plus ultra level."It's an opinion shared by British thriller writerJeremy Duns, whose work in exposing and publicising cases of written theft has earned him something of a reputation as a plagiarist's scourge. "When I was in my 20s," he says, "I&nbsp;was one of the editors at a magazine for English-speaking expats in Belgium, a kind of Time Out wannabe. I found out by pure chance that our film reviewer had plagiarised all his reviews from&nbsp;IMDb[the Internet Movie Database] for years. But even though it was verbatim plagiarism, the editor hadn't really wanted to sack him. I was shocked. If you're really annoyed by something and people say, 'Oh no, it's not wrong at all', then you get even more annoyed. So I tend to be like a dog with a bone."The act of uncovering and investigating acts of plagiarism is becoming easier by&nbsp;the day. Search engines, online plagiarism checkers (of varying quality) and the viral publicity opportunities afforded by social media all play their part. Plagiarism searches can be compelling, like addictive puzzles where positive&nbsp;results elicit mental fist-pumps of delight. (It's unlikely that the unwieldy phrase "mental fist-pumps of delight" will be plagiarised, but I've set up aGoogle Alertin case.) Still, it's laborious, unpaid work. "It takes discipline," Champion says. "You have to sit for hours looking through documents, and it can be a tedious task." The act of proving plagiarism can also be unnerving, according to Duns, not least because getting it wrong exposes you to legal action for defamation. "You open yourself up to a certain amount of abuse," he says. "It's a lot easier to leave it all alone. And sometimes I&nbsp;do try to leave it alone," he adds. But both men seem independently driven by their displeasure. "What&nbsp;keeps us going," Champion says, "is what we're going to discover."These searches aren't restricted to words; content-based image retrieval – ie, searching for images using the image itself – has been crucial in exposing cases of photographic plagiarism. Nearly every professional photographer has a&nbsp;story about their copyright being violated, but that violation can also blur into plagiaristic acts, where photographers simply pretend that other people's work is theirs.Corey Ann, a wedding photographer based in Ohio, was appalled when she heard of a photographer advertising their services on Groupon in 2010 using someone else's work, and she became involved in exposing it. "Afterwards," she says, "people started coming to me when they found out their work was being used. I needed a place to put it all, to show who was doing it and who was affected by it." The&nbsp;result wasstopstealingphotos.com, which documents as many cases as Ann has time to publish. Other websites, such aslogothief.com, which exposes the work of designers who have been, shall we say, a little overinspired by others, fulfil a similar function. "If these things are in a central location that everyone can see," Ann says, "it has more impact. It draws attention to what's happening, and hopefully it deters people from doing it."But while Ann keeps her fingers crossed, the temptation to use other people's work is growing as the volume of it expands. We're in new territory, a confusing online landscape that more than one person I&nbsp;interviewed for this piece described as "difficult". For millennia we have absorbed information, mentally processed it, stored it, retrieved it and passed it on in a slightly altered form and context; now, our unprecedented exposure to that information makes it convenient to take short cuts. Video and audio mash-ups are commonplace; an artist such asGirl Talkreceives widespread praise for his (carefully credited) plunderphonics. News outlets report the publication of news in other outlets as news. Code is endlessly nicked and recycled without anyone really noticing. "There's a lot to take on board about being in the digital world," says Vicky Beeching, a writer and broadcaster whose doctoral research focuses on the ethics of online technology. (I took the second half of that last sentence directly fromher website; rewriting it just seemed unnecessary.) "It comes with a heck of a&nbsp;lot of issues," she continues, "including how we&nbsp;delineate between our own ideas and other people's, whether we should be bothered about it."Monica Gaudiowasbothered about it. Herrecipe for a 14th-century apple pie, published on the medieval cookery website godecookery.com, was copied, tweaked and pasted into Cooks Source, an American food magazine, in late 2010. Her name was mentioned on the page, and the incident may have passed as an unremarkable violation of copyright were it not for the email that Gaudio received from editor Judith Griggs in reply to her complaint. "Honestly, Monica," she wrote, "the web is considered 'public domain' and you should be happy we just didn't 'lift' your whole article and put someone else's name on it! It happens a lot, clearly more than you are aware of, especially on college campuses and the workplace." By crediting Gaudio, Griggs may not have plagiarised in the fullest sense, but she was telling her unwitting contributors to be grateful for this. Gaudio circulated the email, andthe outrage was colossal; Cooks Source was forced to&nbsp;close. "It was really venomous and vulpine," Champion says. "And people reacted strongly because they knew there was an underlying power dynamic in play." It was the familiar tale of the big guy exploiting the little guy.Rosie Wolfenden MBE is the co-founder of the much-pirated jewellery company Tatty Devine. “When we started, we felt like we were the only people in the world doing what we do. Today you can see everyone else who’s doing it.' Photograph: Tattydevine.comWhile bottles of knocked-off perfume on market stalls raise few hackles, if a market trader complained that their idea had been ripped off by Calvin Klein, you can guarantee there'd be an online petition up and running by lunchtime. While this comes more under the banner of piracy than plagiarism, many big businesses, including Tesco, M&amp;S, Urban Outfitters and Claire's Accessories, have found themselves accused of it.Rosie WolfendenMBE, co-founder of the much-pirated jewellery company Tatty Devine, has seen how this predatory behaviour has affected young designers who are desperate to showcase their wares but simultaneously terrified of doing so. "It's the number one concern that we hear about," she says. "When we started, pre-broadband, we felt like we were the only people in the world doing what we do. But today, if you do a quick search, you can see everyone else who's doing it. It&nbsp;feels like it's impossible to have an original idea, and designers are almost taught to be anxious, because they're being advised not to show anyone their work." The intense pressure to make money or generate new content has resulted in a&nbsp;kind of frantic laziness and vigorous corner-cutting. "It's not that weird if a journalist is pushed for time and they take a sentence off Wikipedia," Duns says, before stopping himself and reasserting his exasperation. "But LaBeouf… he took that film to Cannes! Just think about that. He&nbsp;must have had caterers, sound people, light people – who can go through all that and not at any point think that someone is going to realise?"Shia LaBeouf has attempted to style himself as a crusading postmodernist in the wake of his plagiarism scandal. But he is no Laurence Sterne or Jonathan Swift. Photograph: RexLaBeouf's motivations are certainly harder to pin down and more psychologically interesting. Most creative people have a wistful yearning for self-improvement, an almost draining need to be seen to better themselves. Posner describes how they experience "belatedness… a feeling that the niche [they] might have filled has been filled already". But that pressure to matter, whether real or imagined, seems to be exacerbated by the&nbsp;internet, and by social media in particular. We&nbsp;feel compelled to say something, urgently, but&nbsp;we have no idea what to say, so we repurpose, we borrow and, at worst, we plagiarise.At its most extreme, it can become almost pathological, compulsive behaviour. When the 2011 spy novel Assassin Of Secrets, written under the pen name QR Markham, was discovered shortly before British publication to be an elaborate patchwork of several other spy novels (including, again, John Gardner's Icebreaker), its American authorQuentin Rowan admitted he had been preposterously self-destructive. "It's so hard to&nbsp;explain logically or rationally," he told Jeremy Duns. "I&nbsp;can only compare it to other kinds of obsession or addictive behaviour like gambling or smoking… I knew it would destroy me, [but] it did something for me in the moment."Champion puts it this way: "When you're published, you raise yourself to a position of power. If you feel that you can get away with it, having bamboozled some of the finest minds in the business, what's going to stop you carrying on?"Phrases from Icebreaker appear in two other books: Assassin Of Secrets and Vestige Of EvilIt's a good question. The courts, as we've established, don't deal with plagiarism, and suing a plagiarist for breach of copyright is unlikely to be lucrative. The most punitive action available is publicly to humiliate the perpetrator, an option that citizens of Twitter and Facebook seize eagerly. Following the plagiarism accusations, Rowan found himself subjected to what he describes as an "almost ultraviolet level of anger", and for that reason declined to be interviewed for this piece. "It was never my intention to make some kind of statement," he emailed. "What I did absolutely and in every way ruined my life… Now I can see how miraculously fragile it all is, I can't risk jeopardising anything." But it's important to note that Rowan had many defenders, who praised the skill involved in the creation of Assassin Of Secrets. One writer, Chauncey Mabe, saluted him as a "courageous new kind of artist" whose work should be "embraced, rather than withdrawn". LaBeouf also attempted, some would say in desperation,to&nbsp;style himself as a crusading postmodernist in the wake of the Howard Cantour.com affair, plagiarising his own apology from, of all places, Yahoo Answers. But he's not a Laurence Sterne or a Jonathan Swift; people still hate LaBeouf for what he did.Creative people are constantly chasing new ideas. "I'm sitting in my study, desperately trying to think of original ways of saying things," Duns say. "If someone takes them without acknowledgment, I don't think that it's a clever piece of art. But the sad thing is that it's probably becoming part of our culture."Whether Duns' fears come to pass depends largely on the capricious whims of a younger generation. The evils of plagiarism may be drilled into university students, with threats that their work will be checked by that all-seeing-eye of academic fraud,turnitin.com. But, as Beeching points out, the learning process itself is&nbsp;also being&nbsp;radically reshaped, to a point where the notion of plagiarism is becoming foggier, and not one that's automatically synonymous with cheating. "Students don't need to store information in their brains any more," she says. "I&nbsp;recently read someone refer to the internet as&nbsp;our 'outboard brain', and now it's surely a&nbsp;question of making a difference in the world by applying that pool of resources."As I have read and then subsequently written about plagiarism, scribbling down notes as I go, I&nbsp;have almost inevitably been plagued by doubt as to whether I am having my own ideas or merely expressing other people's in a different way. But maybe that's an anxious by-product of my desire to have my own ideas; the plagiarist, meanwhile, nearly always makes a conscious decision to plagiarise, and by doing so is taking what is largely deemed, at least for the moment, to be the easy way out. "Sometimes, in life and in art, you have to make the difficult choice," Champion says. He's been trying to tell me why plagiarism is wrong, but tails off mid-sentence as he struggles to express his strength of feeling. "And that difficult choice," he concludes, almost triumphantly, "is sometimes finding a way to&nbsp;grapple with a difficult expression of an idea using&nbsp;one's heart and one's courage." Later, out&nbsp;of&nbsp;mild curiosity, I tap these words of Champion's&nbsp;into Google Books and press "search". It turns up nothing.
"This is a biome piece for Stormhold, an ancient city founded by the Barsaebic Ayleids. You can see what remains of their architecture in the background. Later it was taken over by Argonians who built their modern mud homes among the crumbled arches.""These are designs for the Robes of the Worm Cult. The Cult of the Black Worm is a society of necromancers, worshipers of Molag Bal, and evil fiends devoted to the hastening of the Planemeld. They sow dissent wherever they operate, performing foul rituals, hoarding powerful relics, and raising undead minions to cause chaos.""This is a biome design for Auridon in the Aldmeri Dominion. It’s a region of tall, broken cliffs, colorful forests, and pale sands. While the High Elves cultivate their surroundings, wild regions of deep forest and forgotten ruins still remain. This is a very ancient and traditional region.""Medium, heavy, and light armors in the Breton style are shown here. There were several iterations of these throughout development. Breton designs are the most 'traditional' medieval fantasy designs in ESO. Centuries of warfare in High Rock have led the Bretons to value functionality over beauty; their architecture and attire alike share an earthy, hand-crafted quality.""This piece depicts southern Bangkorai, a landscape of shifting desert sands with small outcroppings of hard, flat stone. A few shallow oases dot the desert, almost all fortified by Redguard nomads who have made this treacherous land their home for centuries.""An array of props designed for the Oblivion realm of Coldharbour, the setting for much of ESO’s main storyline. Molag Bal holds dominion over this wretched plane.""The battle-scarred Breton city of Camlorn, which you can help liberate from its bestial conquerors.""These Colovian rugs can also be hung as tapestries. The Colovians of western Cyrodiil have Nord ancestors, and their influences are apparent in Colovian culture and attitudes. They’re a stern, religious people. You can see the symbols of Akatosh, Kyne, and Stendarr woven into these decorations.""The entrance to the Crypt of Hearts lies on the southeastern border of Rivenspire at the foot of the Wrothgar Mountains. Once an idyllic farming enclave, something evil has taken root here and destroyed the peaceful city of Heartland.""Here, you can see some of the modular system designed for the Dwarven ruin set, which is the setting for many dungeons in ESO. Dwarven architecture is primarily subterranean; the few surface features are generally entryways.""This shows a glimpse of Eyevea, a sanctuary for members of the Mages Guild. But now the entire idyllic island has been magically spirited away by a mysterious force. Can you help the Mages Guild regain it?""These are some tree and rock guides designed for Eastmarch, which is mostly icy volcanic tundra. It has a few scattered lakes bordered by snow-covered mountains to the east and west. Pine forests grow in the fertile lands at the base of the mountains, thinning at altitude to form a vast, frozen wasteland.""This is a banekin, a weak servitor Daedra that is only clever in its cruelty. They are not masters of their own powers and are known to be more destructive than helpful. A summoner might find some use in letting them wreak the wanton havoc they so love. Beyond that, their uses are few—they’re quick to forget commands.""These Daedra, the harvesters, are often used by Molag Bal as overseers of cult activities. They’re frequent participants in rituals involving sacrifices or soul-stealing. Though they do have some measure of intelligence, their lack of culture or language places them below the Dremora in Daedric hierarchy.""The titan is a giant, armored behemoth used by Molag Bal as a guardian of souls and other critical strategic resources. Part undead, part Daedra, this horrific monstrosity is intelligent and powerful, making it a formidable foe for even the most skilled adventurers.""This shows a battle with a daedroth, a crocodile-headed humanoid Daedra. Reptilian and massive, simple and brutish, daedroth are savage, ravenous beasts. Their thick hides are resistant to magical attacks, and they’re known to belch forth fire—a devastating addition to their powerful attacks."
Wello simply clips around a smartphone – in this case an iPhone – with contacts to place your fingers on to make a reading.The case connects to your smartphone using Bluetooth, making it compatible with a range of devices, including the iPhone and many Android smartphones and tablets.Azoi, the company behind Wello, has managed to shrink the technology behind a range of medical devices that are normally the size of printers down to the size of a credit card.In miniaturising the technology, Azoi has also reduced its power requirements to levels that can be powered by a small battery and give weeks of battery life, rather than requiring constant power from the mains. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianWello is very easy to use. Placing your fingers on the contacts creates a circuit through your body for measuring your heartbeat and other bioelectric functions. It is important to keep your fingers from touching as well as your legs and feet to avoid short circuiting the measurements. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe contacts on the top link with contacts on the back of the case to complete the circuit. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe user has to hold the case and not move or speak for around 10 seconds. The demonstration unit took an average reading over 30 seconds so that movement and speech could be isolated from the readings.Wello presents a user’s vital statistics, including heart rate, blood oxygen levels and blood pressure as an easy to read set of numbers and graphs, charting daily, weekly and monthly readings. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe collated data allows users to spot abnormalities or changes in their heart and lung function and get help if needed. The data can also be shared with a medical professional, giving doctors a patient’s baseline readings and allowing far better personalised diagnosis.“Everyone is different,” said Hamish Patel chief executive of Azoi speaking to the Guardian. “One person’s normal level can be another person’s abnormal level and it is very difficult to know without a baseline reading.” Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianPatel said that a user’s data was kept secure and private on the device and not uploaded to the cloud unless the user chooses to share their data with other parties or services.Azoi is also working on integrating data from other wearable devices including fitness trackers, with Fitbit currently on-board and others to be added before Wello’s release in the summer, providing a wealth of collated data for the quantified self.The ECG readout shows your heart beat over time, allowing early warning signs of heart problems or other medical conditions to be spotted, either by a human or algorithmically by the Wello software. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe back of the Wello case sports the two finger contact pads. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe current Wello case resembles a thin iPhone case, providing protection from scratches and minor impacts while adding the health monitoring functions. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe top finger contacts are clearly marked by slightly raised pads on the side edge of the case. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe Wello case is thin and light, adding very little in the way of bulk to the iPhone. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe electronic components of Wello are housed in a small card, which will slot into a suitable phone case. As Wello connects via Bluetooth to the smartphone, a variety of models will be supported by bespoke cases, including Android phones.When a user changes their phone it they will simply take the Wello card out and slot it into a new case. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe heart of Wello is this thin card, which fits into a smartphone case to provide the finger contacts to measure a user’s vitals.Lung function can also be measured using a small add-on spirograph accessory, which clips onto the side of the smartphone case using magnets. Users simply blow through the tube, as they would a similar device at the doctors to give a reading of lung volume and health.Wello isavailable for pre-orderfor the iPhone 4S or newer, as well as for Android, for £120 shipping in the summer. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian
It was inevitable, really, given theirrepressible rise of the selfie: the day has finally come when we can attempt to teach our canine friends to capture images of themselves.All the same, I am a little taken aback to find myself smearing my iPad screen with peanut butter and waving it under my pup’s nose.I am at an iPad class billed as “higher education for your dog”, run by the pioneer of dog-selfie training, New YorkerAnna Jane Grossman. She has teamed up with her childhood friend Nicole Scott, founder ofCity Dog, and Londoners now have the opportunity to attend one of their iDog clinics.“These courses are about having fun together, developing the bond between you and your dog, and refining your training skills. Plus you will walk away with a cool party trick,” promises Scott, while Grossman is quick to point out that we are not here to teach our dogs to do useful things, such as online banking.Refine your training skillsCity Dog has its own bespoke app in development, which will launch in early May, but in the meantime, Grossman and Scott use a variety of apps, includingBig Camera Button, which turns the entire screen of a tablet or smartphone into a shutter button. The camera is constrained to close-focus and is able to take pictures in quick succession, increasing the dog’s chances of capturing itself at a flattering angle.My dog and I don’t get off to a brilliant start. Olive is a sensitive Chinese crested-mix who can’t cope with the sound of the clicker - the training device used to pinpoint and reward the exact moment the dog does something that the trainer wants to encourage. She modestly turns her face away from the iPad, desperate for a place to hide.When I clock the carefreeshiba inunext to us, who has already progressed to creating her own artworks on a specially designedpainting app, I begin to question whether my dog is quite as bright as I have always liked to believe.‘A dog is like a little robot’But under Scott’s gentle guidance, we build Olive’s confidence, teaching her first to touch my hand with her nose, moving to a wooden dummy iPhone, and finally, the iPad screen. Before long, she has captured dozens of selfies. Most of them are fairly abstract, but I’m delighted.Olive takes a selfie. Photograph: Olive Tregaskis/The GuardianAt one point she gets her tricks mixed up and does a high-five on the screen. The result is a nice shot, but maverick acts of spontaneity such as these are not to be encouraged. “We want our dogs to nose the iPad on cue,” explains Grossman firmly, “because if you can master that, the better she’ll be at understanding you when you need to teach important stuff.”Social engagement aside, what lies at the heart of the iPad training is motor development. Scott points out that Olive is aiming for exactly the same spot on the screen every time, and what may appear to be random nose swipes are in fact fairly precise. “It’s conditioning,” she says. “Dogs learn in pictures. Inside your dog’s brain is a very simple algorithm – pleasant images in one place and unpleasant images in another. A dog is like a little robot, and every time we say ‘yes!’ she takes a picture of whatever is visually in front of her and files it in her ‘pleasant’ queue.“Later, we can train her to differentiate between images, such as words on a screen, for example. We can even get her to answer a question by training her to tap a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ button.”It all sounds a little too sophisticated for poor Olive, but my reservations are swept aside when Grossman, in a matter of mere minutes, teaches her to recognise – and respond correctly to – written commands, using the appBig Words.Trying it for myself, I hold up the iPad with the word “sit” in large white letters against a black screen. Olive immediately sits. Next I show her “whirly” and she twirls around, enthusiastically rewarding me with what is, helpfully, her favourite trick. I return the word “sit” to the screen, and she obliges. I am amazed. We agree she’s clearly more of an intellectual than an artist. “You’ll have her reading Dostoevsky soon,” says Grossman.What dogs really wantCats have long dominated the pet app market.Game for Cats, for example, which encourages them to chase after laser dots, has been downloaded more than 1m times. But never mind the popularity of cat apps – you’d never get a cat to recognise a word and respond to it.Olive's artwork created on App for Dog. Dogs are, of course, operating-system agnostic.At first glance, it all seems like a bit of silly fun, but key to City Dog’s methods is something genuinely essential to dog ownership: nurturing through play the deep two-way bond between animal and human.“So many of our clients love to spoil their dogs with material stuff, but their dogs don’t care about all that. What they really want is mental stimulation. They want to play,” Grossman says. “We’re teaching owners how to get engagement from their dogs, which is the foundation for all dog training.“I think people are starting to see dog selfies less as a novelty and more as something that actually can be a step toward developing other kinds of training skills.”As the lesson draws to a close, Olive has taken 146 selfies. I think I may have created a monster.• How to disable or control in-app purchaseon iPadsandon Android tablets
Shuttered bitcoin exchange MtGox has found almost 200,000 bitcoins which it believed were lost,according to the company&apos;s CEO Mark Karpeles.The money was sitting in a wallet which the firm thought no longer held bitcoins. However, following the application for civil rehabilitation (a Japanese legal procedure analogous to bankruptcy), &quot;these wallets were rescanned and their balance researched,&quot; says Karpeles, and one wallet was found to hold a balance of 199,999.99 bitcoins.Karpeles says that the money, discovered on 7 March, was moved first to online wallets, and then back to an offline wallet between 14-15 March. After the discovery, Gox now holds around 202,000 bitcoins, and still says that approximately 650,000 bitcoins have &quot;disappeared&quot;.MtGox closed doors in late February, after blaming hackers for the loss of millions of pounds worth of bitcoin. Since then, the firm&apos;s US subsidiary has applied for bankruptcy, and two class action lawsuits have been started by users.As every bitcoin transaction is public, it is possible to double-check MtGox&apos;s claim. The rediscovered wallet appears to be one which was noticed on 7 March, when it sprung into life after a dormant period and transferredexactly 199,999.99 bitcoins in two separate transactions.However, there remains a minor conflict between MtGox&apos;s public statement and the evidence in the &quot;block chain&quot;, the record of all transactions. While Karpeles says &quot;an&quot; old-format wallet was discovered, the record shows that the money was spread between five wallets. The difference is minor, but in the highly charged reaction to MtGox&apos;s closure, it is likely to be seized upon as evidence of untrustworthiness on the company&apos;s part.•MtGox bitcoin exchange reopens so users can stare listlessly at their loss
Twitter is considering getting rid of the recognisable @-reply and hashtags from the service, radically changing the appearance of users’ feeds.At a media conference in Denver, Vivian Schiller, Twitter’s head of news, said the @-reply – a way of mentioning other users in messages – and the #hashtag, which denotes topics or search terms, was “arcane” and indicated that Twitter was working on a way to hide them while retaining functionality.“We are working on moving the scaffolding of Twitter into the background,” said Schiller.The statement reiterated a similar comment by Twitter’s chief executive, Dick Costolo, in a recent earnings call. Costolo said that “by bringing the content of Twitter forward and pushing the scaffolding of the language of Twitter to the background” it would reduce the learning curve for new users.He said that the company had already taken “initial steps” towards minimising the visibility of the “scaffolding” and that initial signs were positive.It is unknown quite what form these modifications could take, although public test versions of Twitter’s Android app hasshown that the @ reply portion of the Tweet simply disappearswhile the functionality stays exactly the same. The app is used as a test bed for Twitter’s experiments allowing real-world feedback from a small group of users.Facebook uses a similar system, where the @-symbol is used to initiate a username search for mentioning other users in posts. Facebook produces a drop-down search list of connections but removes the @ symbol once a username has been selected, simply showing the name of the person mentioned in the message in bold.• Twitter turns eight years old:what was your first tweetandwas it better than the best eight celebrity first tweets?
Sony; PlayStation 4; 16+; £50As the first open-world exclusive on PlayStation 4, coming just a week after Xbox One's killer app Titanfall, there is plenty of interest in Second Son. The latest title in Sucker Punch's angsty super hero series certainly has the glossy sheen and astonishing effects of an early system seller. But the immediate question is whether there is much of substance beyond the flashy polygons.The first problem is the world itself. Moving from the fictional cities of past games to a colourfully stylised (if relatively condensed) interpretation of Seattle, Second Son offers an inviting environment but never turns it into an interesting place to be or explore. Many areas are nondescript with only a couple of recognisable landmarks creating the sense that you're exploring somewhere real and interesting. Pedestrians bustling around, traffic runs on cycled loops, the city tries to fool you – but it fails. You instantly know that it's just a playground – not a world. Sure, it looks genuinely breathtaking, with a range of different weather effects, but the lack of a real dynamic day-night cycle furthers the feeling that you're playing a demo, or a single level, rather than investing yourself in aplace.And then there is lead man Delsin Rowe, who wakes one morning with super powers after an encounter with a bio-terrorist group known as the conduit. Intended as a charming counter-culture rogue, his attitude initially comes off as forced and insincere, and the prospect of spending 10 more hours with this dudebro isn't an attractive one. Things improve however, and gradually he eclipses original InFamous stalwart Cole McGrath, growing in to the teen angst tone of the game perfectly. His comical quips and likeability hold the game intact, bringing the cast of surrounding characters together whichever moral path you decide to run down.It's a shame, then, that your companions feel either underused or hollow. Delsin's cop brother Reggie is a walking buzz kill, pushing Delsin to relinquish his powers. Their relationships developers but it never convinces. More interesting personalities like drug dealer-hunting rebel-girl Fetch, provide some of the game's few binary moral choices, but everyone ends up being sidelined. Perhaps the most intriguing character in the game is the aptly hard-ass rock-queen, Augustine. Your quest to find her is the driving force of Second Son's main story, and while your encounters together are frequently frustrating her payoff is an interesting one that adds depth to her characterisation.Super heroicsSecond Son ramps up the comic book action further than previous games. There's a giant flying angel made out of video torrents, concrete men with the power to shoot rock pillars, and you can buzz around the city like a streak of fluorescent photons. The game splits powers up, too, so you can only wield one element at a time. To change, you have to visit a power source and then acquire each different set of abilities.While this avoids overpowering the character, it stifles the series' excellent combat mechanics. Taking down multiple enemies with smoke missiles and neon bolts is extremely satisfying as Delsin darts across the landscape, switching between ranged and melee attacks, but having to switch powers on the fly becomes a chore if you're in an extended firefight. Power sources like smoking cars and neon signs are finite resources, and with the game's surprising level of challenge, you can often find yourself having to constantly move between the scene of the firefight and the nearest power sources, which can often be a fair stretch from the action. It makes it even more frustrating that navigating the game's vertical landscapes is clunky, imprecise and joyless until the later portions of the game when you've upgraded your powers enough to have near-permanent flying capabilities.Sadly, it takes a long time before you really feel like you're a superhero. Even on normal and easy difficulties, Second Son throws in some infuriating set-pieces during which enjoyment frequently gives way to frustration. Having to charge up powers, switch between them depending on circumstance and keep moving at all times gives the game an overly defensive feel. You are usually on the run, rather than on the offensive. This is most prevalent in the boss battles, which go on for far, far too long.Moral battleThere's an attempt to deepen the experience through the continuation of the series' good vs evil morality system. With the jump to next-gen, we were expecting some breadth to bulk out the relatively simple binary dilemmas of previous instalments, but the game never delivers. Choices play out the same each time; you simply pull a trigger for whichever avenue you want to explore. Hardcore fans will probably want to experience both sides of the story, and particular power upgrades are specific only to a certain moral compass, but none of this actually make you think on a moral level.In the end, InFamous Second Son comes off as gorgeous, carefree fun, but a disappointing next-gen entry. The combat is as fast-paced and open to experimentation as it's ever been, but there is never the same sense of real power that the previous games delivered. Sucker Punch clearly wanted to create a big-hearted hero in Delsin, but there's a surprising lack of soul in everything else.
Microsoft has tightened up its privacy policy after admitting to reading emails from a journalist’s Hotmail account while tracking down a leak.The new rules prevent the company from snooping on customers’ communications without first convincing two legal teams, independent of the internal investigation, that they have evidence sufficient to obtain a court order were one applicable.The company did not apologise for the search.John Frank, vice president and deputy general counsel at the firm, says that followingcoverage of the case in the Guardianand elsewhere, Microsoft wants “to provide additional context regarding how we approach these issues generally and how we are evolving our policies.“Courts do not issue orders authorising someone to search themselves, since obviously no such order is needed,” he continues.“So even when we believe we have probable cause, it’s not feasible to ask a court to order us to search ourselves. However, even we should not conduct a search of our own email and other customer services unless the circumstances would justify a court order, if one were available.”As well as requiring an internal and external review of the evidence, Frank also promises to confine any future searches “to the matter under investigation and not search for other information”. Finally, he says that the firm will begin to “report the data on the number of these searches that have been conducted and the number of customer accounts that have been affected” in its bi-annual transparency report.“The only exception to these steps will be for internal investigations of Microsoft employees who we find in the course of a company investigation are using their personal accounts for Microsoft business,” Frank concludes. “And in these cases, the review will be confined to the subject matter of the investigation.”The initial search occurred in September 2012, when the company was attempting to discover who had handed an anonymous blogger the source code to Windows 8, its then-upcoming operating system. It discovered that the blogger was using a Microsoft Hotmail email address, and that they had used it to send the code to a third party.“After confirmation that the data was Microsoft’s proprietary trade secret, on September 7, 2012 Microsoft’s office of legal compliance (OLC) approved content pulls of the blogger’s Hotmail account”, said FBI agent Armando Ramirez IIIin court papers filed Monday.The company’s user agreement reserves the right to carry out such searches, even after the changes Frank announced. “We may access information about you, including the content of your communications, to protect the rights or property of Microsoft,” it reads.The news of the search sparked immediate reaction following the Guardian’s report on Thursday. Parker Higgins, an activist for San Francisco-based pressure group EFF,wrote thatthe decision was a “very bad move”and that he was“reeling from this Microsoft story. Journalists need to be wary of government and corporate espionage. Knowing your source’s ID is a liability.”Microsoft has taken a further PR hit due to the fact that email privacy has been a key weapon in its fight against Google’s dominance of the sector.In the company’s “Scroogled!” campaign, it emphasises that “Outlook.com [the service which replaced Hotmail] prioritises your privacy… Your email is nobody else’s business.” It even offers a petition asking customers to “tell Google to stop! Let them know they shouldn’t go through your email”.Full statement by John Frank, Microsoft’s vice president and deputy general counselWe believe that Outlook and Hotmail email are and should be private. Today there has been coverage about a particular case. While we took extraordinary actions in this case based on the specific circumstances and our concerns about product integrity that would impact our customers, we want to provide additional context regarding how we approach these issues generally and how we are evolving our policies.Courts do not issue orders authorizing someone to search themselves, since obviously no such order is needed. So even when we believe we have probable cause, it’s not feasible to ask a court to order us to search ourselves. However, even we should not conduct a search of our own email and other customer services unless the circumstances would justify a court order, if one were available. In order to build on our current practices and provide assurances for the future, we will follow the following policies going forward:• To ensure we comply with the standards applicable to obtaining a court order, we will rely in the first instance on a legal team separate from the internal investigating team to assess the evidence. We will move forward only if that team concludes there is evidence of a crime that would be sufficient to justify a court order, if one were applicable. As an additional step, as we go forward, we will then submit this evidence to an outside attorney who is a former federal judge. We will conduct such a search only if this former judge similarly concludes that there is evidence sufficient for a court order.• Even when such a search takes place, it is important that it be confined to the matter under investigation and not search for other information. We therefore will continue to ensure that the search itself is conducted in a proper manner, with supervision by counsel for this purpose.• Finally, we believe it is appropriate to ensure transparency of these types of searches, just as it is for searches that are conducted in response to governmental or court orders. We therefore will publish as part of our bi-annual transparency report the data on the number of these searches that have been conducted and the number of customer accounts that have been affected.The only exception to these steps will be for internal investigations of Microsoft employees who we find in the course of a company investigation are using their personal accounts for Microsoft business. And in these cases, the review will be confined to the subject matter of the investigation.The privacy of our customers is incredibly important to us, and while we believe our actions in this particular case were appropriate given the specific circumstances, we want to be clear about how we will handle similar situations going forward. That is why we are building on our current practices and adding to them to further strengthen our processes and increase transparency.•Former Microsoft employee arrested over Windows 8 leaks
It’s just so typical. You wait many years for a consumer-friendly virtual reality headset then two come along at once. This is the old joke currently facing VR fanatics at the Game Developers’ Conference in San Francisco , where Sony is now offering hands-on time with its newly announced Project Morpheus headset for PS4 – just as indie tech company Oculus is showing off the revised dev kit for its long-awaited alternative, the Oculus Rift.But while the Rift, which was successfully crowd-funded in August 2012, is aimed at the thriving PC gaming scene, Morpheus is for console owners – ostensibly, a very different breed of gamer. So can it work?Sony certainly hasn’t gone into this lightly, or indeed quickly. The technology behind Project Morpheus has been in development for three years, under the watchful eye of R&amp;D chief Richard Marks, who oversaw the development of the groundbreaking EyeToy peripheral. At the GDC unveiling event on Tuesday, president of Worldwide Studios Shuhei Yoshida revealed that the team had been working with a makeshift HMD featuring two Move controllers duct-taped to it, and the Santa Monica studio has a God of War demo running on the tech in 2011.Morpheus risingThe current Morpheus model is not complete but based around the current DualShock and PlayStation camera platforms, it is up-to-date. With its 1080p screen, 90-degree field of view and 360-degree head-tracking, the fundaments are in place – it seems the device will also recognise Move as a virtual controller, which means you’ll be able to look down in the game world and see it in your hands, perhaps as a gun, a torch, or a tennis racquet.The attitude seems to be right too. Richard Marks and colleague Anton Mikhailov stressed during their GDC talk that VR can’t just be about games, it has to be about all sorts of immersive experiences. The concept of virtual tourism was mentioned – the idea of simple exploring virtual words, whether based on ‘real’ places or not could be vital.What’s clear is that functionality can’t be dictated from the top. Kinect on Xbox 360 largely failed as a games peripheral, but when the development code was opened up to the public, homebrew motion controller applications flourished, with dozens of amazing implementations. That is why Morpheus was revealed here at GDC – its success is going to be largely down to developers figuring out what the hell to do with it. A bottom-up approach, if you will.Motion and emotionSo what do the developers make of it. “We think this could be as revolutionary to console gaming as the Wii was,” says Si Stratton of Cardiff-based studioMr Dog, which is working on both virtual reality games and movies. “Morpheus will inspire innovation in gaming – we’ve heard of a company that has already developed a game where you can move around without a controller – something that’s relatively easy on in VR as you can tell where the player is looking.“Having said that, Sony seems to be designing the headset to combine with other controllers such as steering wheels and the PlayStation Move, as it believes this will be a more immersive experience. Combining the headset with other Sony devices on the Playstation will be the big advantage they have over the Oculus, but it means that in order to get the most out of games you’ll have to buy more kit.”Other VR veterans are more cautious. “It’s definitely a good start – but it is not superior to Oculus yet,” says Hrafn Thorri Thorisson, co-founder ofAldin Dynamics, a Reykjavík studio that specialises in virtual reality simulations. “Personally I found the announcement rather vague – so many facts were left unsaid or undecided. Developers will need to know more about the specifications and what the hardware is capable of. It is also unclear how far along they are in creating the developer kit, and when developers can gain access to the hardware.”VR warMore details are slowly emerging from the hands-on sessions at GDC, however. The Guardian has heard that although the visual fidelity of Morpheus is currently inferior to the latest iteration of Oculus Rift (developers say there is some blurring – but this is a prototype, remember), the Sony device is more comfortable and appears to be taking positional data from the Move controllers. This means that it can track player movement across the room and translate that into the virtual space – so you’re also walking through that at the same time. The new Oculus Rift DK2 headset does this, too, but it will be interesting to see how the implementations compare. Physical movements like peering around corners are going to be important in developing and maintaining the sense of “being there”.But there are other concerns. The Rift audience is an enthusiast one; so far the device has flourished through a global network of early adopters who are willing to overlook some of the fundamental difficulties – such as nausea. “Ultimately, Sony’s audience is a lot more mainstream than the Oculus Rift’s,” says Stratton. ”It will live and die on whether they’ve solved the motion sickness issue when playing for long periods. No one wants to come home from work, plug in their PS4 and feel ill.”But beyond the technical comparisons, other developers are unsure about the concept of a virtual reality tech attached to a mainstream console. “The fearful scenario is that Sony will use the VR as a peripheral, like a Playstation Eye or Kinect,” says designer and artist Daniël Ernst who has created a series of virtual dioramas for Oculus Rift, includingShoe Boxand the forthcoming Great Gottlie. “Although games are an ideal platform for playful experimentation, the potential of VR surpasses that of gaming. If Sony treats it like a gimmick, people will get tired of it as fast as they did with the 3D TV.”At the Morpheus event, Marks was very keen to stress that Sony understands the wider implications of VR. In a slide shown at the event, he laid out his vision for the technology, and at number one on the list was, “VR is a medium not a peripheral”. Marks spoke about the need to explore this new visual realm, to respect its differences. “It’s like the wild west,” he concluded. “There are no rules right now, and there’s no killer genre you have to support – it’s a once-in-a-career situation.”Being thereMarks also emphasised the profound effect of presence in virtual worlds. Narrative 2D games rely on story and plotting to engross players, but when they put on a virtual reality headset, just being in the environment is often enough to engage interest. Scenic elements, once take for granted, become fascinating.”We do relate to spaces differently when we’re in them,” says veteran game designer and author Jesse Schell. “I saw a research project once where they were trying to understand the difference between mouse and keyboard input and HMDs. They created a virtual room that had letters on the walls, and they asked the players question like ‘how many Zs are there?’.“The players using the standard mouse and keyboard interface would spend extra time checking, because they weren’t sure if they had missed something. But the player viewing the virtual version of the room through an HMD was like ‘there’s one, there’s one, there’s one, I’m done’. He knew it – and he was right. The mouse guy couldn’t be sure because he didn’t have that same connection to the space.”Beyond PS4?It all comes down to ambition. Project Morpheus as a PS4 peripheral is exciting to gamers right now, but developers feel it may also be limiting. The expanse of unexplored territory when it comes to virtual reality spaces is vast – will it be harmful to lock that off into just another gaming gimmick?“The hopeful scenario is that Sony learned from the failure of Playstation Move, Kinect and the 3D TV and will treat and market the Morpheus beyond the Playstation 4,” says Ernst. “I want to be able to use the device with my PC too. I mean, I can hook up my TV to my PC, my Wii, my Xbox, my ipad and so on. Why not treat the Morpheus like that? Then Oculus will have a good competitor and the consumer will benefit from it. Also, other people will then use the VR helmet for other more serious purposes such as architecture or defense, which can create a broad solid foundation.“Sony has the distribution prowess to introduce VR as the followup to the TV, and it has solid development studios for software. The company has been looking for a new Walkman. This is it.”•Sony unveils Project Morpheus, a virtual reality headset for PlayStation 4•Oculus Rift: Valve promises to take virtual reality to the masses
Jemima Kiss recently calledfor long-sighted and informed politicians in the technology debate and accused Labour of missing a trick by not recognising the social values of the web.And I would have agreed, had I not been preparing to launch our Digital Review of Government to address just that - technology’s role in the people-powered public services that Ed Miliband spoke of last month, developing the evidence and detailing the vision to bring about digital government which is both progressive and effective.Like Jemima I believe the web is essentially liberalising, but to be progressive it must also to be inclusive and this government is entrenching the digital divide.I was struck by the critiques of government that she cited – Paxman saying today’s politicians just wanted to be in charge and an entrepreneur saying we are reluctant to lead. There is an essential contradiction there and perhaps the best way to answer that is with politicians who want to put the people in charge.That is what an Ed Miliband government is offering.Labour’s history, our roots, are in the empowerment of people. All too often government is something done to the people. Digital government must not be like that.I worked as an electrical engineer in ICT for 23 years before I entered parliament, mainly building out new technology in the private sector. There were plenty of competing visions for how the web would disrupt business and the products and services people buy – turn value chains upside down and make business models obsolete.In boardrooms across the world terms like ‘disintermediation’, ‘co-opitition’ and ‘clicks and mortar’ were bandied around, along with my own personal favourite: ‘in the internet gold rush you don’t want to be digging for gold but selling shovels’.As Jemima says, we are now seeing the consequences of that analysis. The high street has changed radically; music downloads are overtaking physical sales and the UK has the most avid online shoppers in the world. For many, social media is the only media and every brand is only a click away.But the relationship between government and the governed has not changed. The citizen value chain is still the same as it ever was.And Jemima is right to say there is no popular vision for that transformed relationship - except perhaps the North Atlantic libertarian view of government as a small app on some great neo-liberal web.This government has made progress on digital with its Government Digital Service, GDS, helping get more data online and improve services like renewing your tax disc. But it sees digital service as primarily a cost stripping exercise and it has effectively ignored digital inclusion and empowerment. This is why I am increasingly faced with vulnerable people in real distress because, for example, they can’t sign on online. And whilst people may have a choice of which broadband provider to use, if they can afford it, they can’t use it to help create their own social care or local bus network. That’s hardly power to the people.So what is the Labour vision of digital government?The internet and big data should lead to more direct, horizontal - as opposed to vertical - relationships that enable individuals to redress the balance of power with governments, big companies and institutions.But it requires the right infrastructure and architecture to drive digital transformation through local and national government and the right policies and rules to ensure citizens are in control.We are clear that digital government without digital inclusion is a return to a 19th century vision of democracy amongst a narrow elite. We are equally certain that the experience of the private sector cannot simply be applied wholesale to the public – we are not looking for citizen clubcard.That is why the Digital Government Review is complemented by the UK Digital Skills task force led Maggie Philbin, the Creative Industries and Digital Economy review by John Woodward and the ICT Procurement Review led by Alexis Cleveland. And all this in the context of our zero-based budgeting review.We do have some interesting examples of how digital empowerment could work in practise. In Newcastle we have just finished piloting Chain Reaction, an adult social care programme in which personal budgets are used not for individualised day care but shared activities – like a trip to the cinema - co-producing care based on sharing preferences and capabilities.So we start the review by asking for evidence of where digital government is working, where it should be praised as a model for other parts of the public and even private sector.But we will also be asking for evidence of where it has failed or been poorly executed, disempowering people and turning them off from their government.Under the guidance of an advisory board with wide ranging experience and with contributions from diverse stakeholders across the country, the review will deliver a framework for transformative digital government together with concrete policy proposals to make digital services work for the many – under, in Jemima’s words, ‘a strong and technologically confident Labour’.The Digital Government Review team welcome contributions atteam@digitalgovernmentreview.org.ukThe review’s independent, non-partisan Advisory Board members will include:Peter Ingram, managing director of Touchstone Consulting and previously CTO of Ofcom and BT RetailStephen King, partner at Omidyar NetworkPiers Linney, co-CEO of cloud service provider Outsourcery (and also a Dragon on the BBC’s ‘Dragon’s Den’)William Perrin, founder of Talk About LocalCho Oliver, director of Liquid Steel and previously CIO of European Oil Trading at BPVicki Shotbolt, founder and CEO of The Parent ZoneJeni Tennison, technical director of the Open Data InstituteGraham Walker, CEO of Go ON UKDigital Government Review on Twitter at@diggovreviewand online atdigitalgovernmentreview.org.uk•Chi Onwurahis Labour MP for Newcastle Central, shadow cabinet office minister and is leadingLabour’sDigital Government Review
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPileup flaws: vulnerabilities in Android update make 97.5% of Android devices vulnerable &gt;&gt; Indiana University/MicrosoftA very sneaky vulnerability:We further confirmed the presence of the issues in all AOSP (Android Open Source Project) versions and 3,522 source code versions customized by Samsung, LG and HTC across the world. Those flaws affect all the Android devices worldwide, posing serious threats to billions of Android users who are actually encouraged to update their systems.A distinctive feature of the threat is that the attack is not aimed at a vulnerability in the current system. Instead, it exploits the flaws in the updating mechanism of the "future" OS, which the current system will be upgraded to. More specifically, through the app running on a lower version Android, the adversary can strategically claim a set of carefully selected privileges or attributes only available on the higher OS version. For example, the app can define a new system permission such as android.permission.READ_PROFILE (read the user's personal profile data) on Android 2.3.6, which is to be added on 4.0.x.So you install an app on an early version and it silently gets permission to do bad things once your phone is updated.Google to get the brunt of dual OS tablets while Microsoft to benefit the most &gt;&gt; Digitimes ResearchIntel and Asustek Computer released dual OS tablets at CES 2014 that combine Windows and Android operating systems into one unit in an attempt to tackle a new segment in the tablet market. However, due to pressure from Google, Asustek has postponed plans to release its TD300 tablet that was presented at CES 2014. Digitimes Research believes dual system devices benefit Intel, PC vendors and Microsoft while Google will get the brunt of such developments due to a possible increase in the Windows penetration rate.Scrappy underdog Microsoft? Pressure from Google?Isis CTO accuses retailers of turning off NFC and smartcard payment tech &gt;&gt; ComputerworldMatt Hamblen:a powerful group of retailers including Best Buy and 7-Eleven plans to roll out mobile payments in 2014 by scanning barcodes from smartphones. That move sets up a potential battle with backers of NFC (Near Field Comunication), including a joint venture of three wireless carriers called Isis, and Google Wallet.The merchant venture, called Merchant Customer Exchange (MCX), hasn't divulged specific plans. But in December, it announced that ExxonMobil had joined its ranks, bringing MCX membership to about 70 brands with 110,000 retail locations that process more than $1 trillion in payments a year. Other members include Walmart, Sears, Kohl's, Lowe's, Dunkin' Donuts and other national retailers.Adding to the turf battle now building over mobile payments, a few national retailers who are MCX members have begun turning off the ability of recently-upgraded payment terminals to recognize NFC payments or read smart credit and debit cards embedded with a chip, according to several industry analysts and Isis CTO Scott Mulloy.So there are three groups: MCX, Isis, and Google Wallet. The latter two differ on how to implement NFC payments. The first doesn't want NFC. In 2013, NFC transactions across the US totalled $188m - £114m. Recall thatNFC transactions in the UK in 2013 were £618m. NFC just isn't happening in the US.Throne of Games: Apple or Google? Depends where you live &gt;&gt; BloombergApple is the winner in Japan, but that's not the same as a victory in China. There are 251m iOS and Android devices used for playing games in China, according to Flurry. In Japan, there are 33m. The US. is closer, at 238m, but it's not growing as fast as China."It's pretty clear that the age of Android global dominance is here," [Torrey] Lincoln [senior director of Flurry games business development] said. "Worldwide, the future for Android looks bright."More volume doesn't always mean more profits, and that extends to game developers. The average price of an Android app is 6 cents, Flurry said. For Apple products, it's 19 cents on the iPhone and 50 cents on the iPad.Can we have an open phone please? The case of the Ubuntu Phone &gt;&gt; Privacy International[W]hen Canonical, the company that primarily funds Ubuntu GNU/Linux, announced it was entering the mobile phone market, we were among the many who hailed this development. Given the company's track record, it was believed that the open-source philosophy of Ubuntu would carry through to their mobile phone version. In light of what we now know about the fallibility of mobile phones, which can enable highly invasive and mass surveillance, the need for this kind of phone has only increased recently.However, despite hopes of a totally open mobile handset platform, Privacy International has learned from Canonical that their new phone will suffer from the same problems as their competitors by leaving the baseband closed. While the operating system of the phone will be open, without the ability of the security community to examine the baseband software of the new Ubuntu Phone, the open-source nature of the remaining element may provide no more assurances than other open-source phone operating systems such as Android.Reason: it's from third parties. There's no open baseband software (yet).First annual profit drop in 14 years spurs China Mobile spending on 4G &gt;&gt; ReutersChina Mobile executives also hinted that sales of the iPhone, which analysts had expected to reach at least 17m units in the first year after the launch, are well below expectations."Most of our 1.34 million 4G users are using an iPhone," said China Mobile Chairman Xi Guohua. "It's just been getting started for one or two months. So far it's hard to tell how that will affect our business," he said.A scrappy band finds a way to make Spotify pay for its silence &gt;&gt; BusinessweekVulfpeck, a small-time funk band with a couple of retro-styled albums under its belt, recently released Sleepify, an album made up of nothing but silence. This isn't a completely new concept: Anyone with a pompous theory streak will insist that it's really the silence between the notes that matter—and congratulations if you're already thinking of John Cage's 4'33," a composition performed by sitting there without playing.But Vulfpeck's latest album is a business experiment, not a musical one. The idea behind the project is for fans to stream the "songs" constantly, generating royalties for the band in their spare time.Mapping the accessibility of London's public transit network &gt;&gt; Mappable InfoHow the London Underground network looks if you're a wheelchair user. A clever (but not perfect) visualisation - really you'd want to remove the intermediate stations altogether.Clientcopia : Coping with stupid clients : Quotes, Comments &amp; RemarksNigel Moss:I was doing some temporary work in a Government Dept that will remain nameless... Department-wide they had something in the region of 80,000 employees and so their internal mail servers were often quite busy. One day an email arrived in my inbox that had been sent to everyone from someone in the IT department. The email was about how "they understood that little images and smiley faces, cartoons etc can make otherwise dull office emails seem a little more friendly, but they do add some 'weight' to the emails, which can put some strain on the Department's email servers, so please follow these guidelines when sending out global emails"...Click through for the punchline.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Theresa May summoned the internet giant Yahoo for an urgent meeting on Thursday to raise security concerns after the company announced plans to move to Dublin where it is beyond the reach of Britain's surveillance laws.By making the Irish capital rather than London the centre of its European, Middle East and Africa operations, Yahoo cannot be forced to hand over information demanded by Scotland Yard and the intelligence agencies through "warrants" issued under Britain's controversial anti-terror laws.Yahoo has had longstanding concerns about securing the privacy of its hundreds of millions of users – anxieties that have been heightened in recent months by revelations from the whistleblower Edward Snowden.In February, the Guardian revealed that Britain's eavesdropping centre GCHQintercepted and stored the images of millions of people using Yahoo webcams, regardless of whether they were suspects. The data included a large quantity of sexually explicit pictures.The company said this represented "a&nbsp;whole new level of violation of our users' privacy".The home secretary called the meeting with Yahoo to express the fears of Britain's counter-terrorism investigators. They can force companies based in the UK to provide information on their servers by seeking warrants under theRegulation of Investigatory Powers Act, 2000 (Ripa).The law, now under review by a parliamentary committee, has been widely criticised for giving police and the intelligence agencies too much access to material such as current emails and internet searches, as well as anything held on company records.However, the Guardian has been told thatCharles Farr,the head of the office for security and counter-terrorism (OSCT) within the Home Office, has been pressing May to talk to Yahoo because of anxiety in Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism command about the effect the move to Dublin could have on their inquiries.Farr, a former senior intelligence officer, coordinates the work of Scotland Yard and the security service MI5, to prevent terrorist attacks in the UK."There are concerns in the Home Office about how Ripa will apply to Yahoo once it has moved its headquarters to Dublin," said a Whitehall source. "The home secretary asked to see officials from Yahoo because in Dublin they don't have equivalent laws to Ripa. This could particularly affect investigations led by Scotland Yard and the national crime agency. They regard this as a very serious issue."The move to make Dublin the centre of its headquarters for Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) was announced last month and will take effect from Friday.In a statement at the time, Yahoo said Dublin was a natural home for the company and that it would be incorporated into Irish laws.The firm insisted the move was driven by "business needs … we believe it is in the best interest of our users. Dublin is already the European home to many of the world's leading global technology brands."However, the firm has been horrified by some of the surveillance programmes revealed by Snowden and is understood to be relieved that it will be beyond the immediate reach of UK surveillance laws.Following the Guardian's disclosures about snooping on Yahoo webcams, the company said it was "committed to preserving our users trust and security and continue our efforts to expand encryption across all of our services." It said GCHQ's activity was "completely unacceptable..we strongly call on the world's governments to reform surveillance law."Explaining the move to Dublin, the company said: "The principal change is that Yahoo EMEA, as the new provider of services to our European users, will replace Yahoo UK Ltd as the data controller responsible for handling your personal information. Yahoo EMEA will be responsible for complying with Irish privacy and data protection laws, which are based on the European data protection directive."Emma Carr, deputy director of Big Brother Watch, said: "It should not come as a surprise if companies concerned about maintaining their users' trust to hold their information start to move to countries with more rigorous oversight processes, particularly where courts oversee requests for information." Surveillance laws have a direct impact on our economy and Yahoo's decision should be ring an alarm in Parliament that ignoring the serious questions about surveillance that are being debated around the world will only harm Britain's digital economy."Under Ripa, a warrant can be issued for an investigation that has implications for national security, or might lead to the prevention or detection of serious crimes.Warrants to seek the retention of communications data can be issued by specified officers within police forces and the intelligence agencies.More intrusive surveillance techniques can require the signature of a cabinet minister. From Friday, investigators may have to seek information by using a more drawn out process of approaching Yahoo through a Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty between Ireland and the UK.A Home Office spokesperson said: "We do not confirm the details of private meetings."
Every year, like 140-character clockwork, Twitter users are treated to a Groundhog Day-esque moment as the service trots out founder Jack Dorsey’s seminal first tweet.Say it with me now:“just setting up my twttr”.Tocelebrateits eighth birthday, Twitter is offering each user a respite from @Jack, and the ability to go back in time and read their own first tweet. The tool is calledDiscover, and it is a goldmine. By midday Thursday, the#FirstTweethashtag was showcasing the (ahem)skeptical, mundane orapparently completely accidentalfirst messages of thousands. But obviously the real fun comes when you start plugging in the notable names of presidents, talk show hosts and comedians. Here are eight first tweets from people we all know, presented in no particular order:Barack ObamaWith his first tweet, then-senator Obama was several years early and many signatures away from ‘celebrating’ the end of the Iraq war. Wednesday was the11th anniversaryof the invasion. These days, Obama has moved on to more pressing issues, like telling House of Cards fans not to tweet any spoilers.Thinking we&#39;re only one signature away from ending the war in Iraq. &#13;&#10;Learn more at http://www.barackobama.com&mdash; Barack Obama (@BarackObama)April 29, 2007Piers MorganPresented as-is. Also,not his best work.BREAKING NEWS: I&#39;m now a Twit. Official.&mdash; Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan)November 30, 2010Conan O’BrienO’Brien was nearing the height of his popularity when he signed up for Twitter. This was shortly after his final episode of the Tonight Show, and served as a highly professional first public statement after his ouster by NBC execs. Team Coco 4 Lyfe.Today I interviewed a squirrel in my backyard and then threw to commercial.  Somebody help me.&mdash; Conan O&#39;Brien (@ConanOBrien)February 24, 2010Ashton Kutcher and Larry KingFor some reason, these two were the talk of Twitter in 2009, and had a highly publicized race to 1m followers. (Ashton won.) Many viewed this raceas a turning point for the ‘microblog’ network. Ah, the olden days.dropping my first tweet&mdash; ashton kutcher (@aplusk)January 16, 2009Baseball is back so the world is good again. I love all sports, but baseball is still our only national pass time.&mdash; Larry King  (@kingsthings)April 6, 2009OPRAH COMES ON STRONG WITH THE CAPS LOCKYou get a Twitter and YOU get a Twitter and YOU GET A TWITTER!!!!!!!! If her OWN network doesn’t work out, Oprah has a definite future in social media.HI TWITTERS . THANK YOU FOR A WARM WELCOME. FEELING REALLY 21st CENTURY .&mdash; Oprah Winfrey (@Oprah)April 17, 2009(Bonus CAPS lock tweet: Diddy)That Diddy. So mysterious!GETTING READY TO SHOOT MORE CSI&mdash; Diddy (@iamdiddy)December 18, 2008Stephen FryWe can all agree that Stephen Fry’s first tweet was probably not his best. His best work was pioneering the art ofrant-tweeting while stuck in a liftin 2009.Hello Twitterers. I&#39;m About to fly to Africa for a new project and will be tweeting whilst I&#39;m filming.&mdash; Stephen Fry (@stephenfry)October 9, 2008And, last but not least, the most Guardian first tweet everOr so we’ve heard.is northern line working? or do i use my davos snow grips (never used?)&mdash; alan rusbridger (@arusbridger)February 2, 2009I’ve likely left your favorite off the list, so please share yours in the comments below.
Having used Windows 8, I want a Windows 7 laptop for work. Are there any good budget (£400 and below) options around?Ed OwenMicrosoft Windows 7 is still a current operating system, but PC manufacturers have moved almost all their systems to Windows 8, so you won’t find a lot of models to choose from. However, Windows 7 is still the standard for business computing, so you will be able to buy them for the next couple of years.Microsoft publishes software life-cycle information well in advance, and PC manufacturers will stop pre-installing Windows 7 Home Basic, Home Premium, and Ultimate on October 31, 2014. (It doesn’t mean they’ll stop selling them. They could have a warehouse full.) However, the date for Windows 7 Pro reads “Not yet established“, and when it is, Microsoft will give at least one year’s advance notice.Even the end of Windows 7 Pro will not be the end of Windows 7 Pro. The Professional versions of Windows include “downgrade rights”, which means that PC manufacturers will be able to sell Windows 8 Pro PCs with Windows 7 Pro pre-installed until October 31, 2015 or probably later. They may prefer to do this because Windows 8 PC designs have a new UEFI interface that is more secure and also enables them to start up much faster than old-style machines with a BIOS chip. Manufacturers may also be paying less for Windows 8 because of volume discounts.So, as a buyer, you may have a choice between Windows 7 laptops with old-style (BIOS) designs and ones with newer (UEFI) designs that are exploiting downgrade rights. You should buy the latter: it gets you more modern hardware plus a free upgrade to Windows 8 that you may want to use later. I still recommend Windows 7 as the best choice for business buyers, but Microsoft is busy making Windows 8 better for non-touch users, and it’s always nice to have options.Most laptops in your price bracket (around £400) will have 15.6in screens with a resolution of 1366 x 768 pixels, as this represents the highest volume of sales.Your best option at the moment is probably the HP ProBook 450 G1 with a 2.4GHz Intel Core i3-3120M processor, 8GB of memory, 500GB hard drive, and 64-bit Windows 8 Pro downgraded to Windows 7 Pro. This costs£399.99 on Amazon.co.uk, discounted from £476. I’m not fond of all the extra software that HP bundles with its consumer machines, but this one doesn’t seem to have much beyond HP Support Assistant. The code is E9Y53EA#ABU if you want to shop around.An alternative is the Toshiba Satellite Pro C50-A-1E6, which has the same specification but only 4GB of memory. The price on Amazon.co.uk is£402.94, reduced from £496.80, and the code is PSCG7E-02D042EN. In both cases, make sure you get a laptop with a Core i3-3120M or better processor, not one with a slow, low-end AMD chip. (The i3-3110M and i3-3130M are also OK.)The Fujitsu Lifebook A544 (Pro OS) is much like the Toshiba Pro C50 at much the same price:£401.94, reduced from £436.99.It’s probably getting towards the end of the line for the third-generation Core i3-3120M and its close relatives: they are being replaced by fourth-generation Core i3-4000M versions. These don’t seem to provide more performance, on benchmarks, but if you’d prefer the newer chip, you can get in these PCs for an extra cost. You could also add the Lenovo B5400 to your shopping list: it includes a 2.4GHz Core i3-4000M for£430.52, reduced from £449.99.Finally,laptop ergonomicsare very poor, and you can no longer buy one with a good keyboard. If you’re going to work for more than an hour at a time, you should put the laptop on a riser and plug in a good external keyboard and mouse. If you budget 50p a day for your work computer, that comes to £520 over four years: your £400 laptop should therefore leave you £120 to protect your health. As I learned the hard way, it’s cheaper than paying a physiotherapist £80 per hour.[subhead]Windows 7 desktopsI need to replace my vintage Dell Dimension running Windows XP with a new, no-nonsense machine running Windows 7, suitable for my one-man business. I was all set to order one of the Dell Vostro models yousuggested earlier, only to find that they are no longer available. Dell has suggested the Optiplex 3020, but this range looks more suitable for networked environments in large offices.Robert WilsonDell has recently gone private (it’s no longer a listed company) and is moving upmarket to concentrate more on business buyers. However, while it did discontinue the budget Vostro desktops, it offered big discounts on the superior Optiplex models to compensate. You can now get anOptiplex 3020 Mini Tower systemwith a fast 3.2GHz quadcore Intel Core i5-4570 processor, 4GB of memory, fast 500GB hard drive and a 64-bit Windows 7 downgrade (with a Windows 8 disc) discounted by £203 to £412.30 plus VAT and delivery. The total comes to £524.76 including a 3-year Basic warranty, or one year of Pro on-site service. This is good value. It’s slightly cheaper than the Dell Vostro 470MT with a Core i5-3470, which cost £538.80, though that did include a graphics card.The main alternatives for business desktops are HP and Lenovo. TheHP ProDesk 400 G1 Microtower PC(code D5T94EA#ABU) might be worth a look. It has a 3.4GHz Intel Core i3-4130, 4GB of memory, 500GB hard drive and Windows 7 downgrade for £451, with free delivery. However, the processor is significantly slower than the Optiplex’s Core i5, and it doesn’t include a keyboard or mouse. (An Optiplex 3020 with a Core i3-4130 costs £428.76 including £30 for delivery.)It’s trickier to choose a Lenovo desktop, but theThinkCentre M83tower would end up costing even more. The web price with a Core i3-4130 and Windows 8 is £520.39, but upgrading to a Core i5-4570 adds £114 and pre-installing the Windows 7 downgrade adds another £66, taking the total to £675.19. That does include three years of on-site warranty, but Dell would only charge an extra £38.19 for that.Overall, the Optiplex 3020 MT with a Core i5-4570 looks like the best buy at the moment. Don’t worry about its suitability for large offices. This won’t make any difference to how you use it.
The mini-skirmish between PlayStation 4 and Xbox One over who supplies the best video streaming capabilities has intensified afterSony announcedit is to release a new firmware update for the PS4 which focuses on this very element.Due in a matter of weeks, the refresh will add a “rich video editor”, allowing users to cut and personalise any gaming content they have recorded via the controller’s share button. This footage can then be saved to an external drive – a feature not currently supported by the Xbox One, putting PS4 one step ahead.Sony has also confirmed that a subsequent system update will improve the console’s implementation of games broadcasting service Twitch. Previously, it wasn’t possible for PS4 owners to archive the footage they streamed – a feature thatissupported on Xbox One. Similarly, PlayStation 4 will be able to stream in 720p resolution after the later update, again matching the performance of Microsoft’s competitor.But perhaps the most useful update mentioned in Sony’s blogpost is the disabling of the PS4‘s HDCP (High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection) for game footage recording. HDCP scrambles out going video to prevent users from pirating DVD and Blu-ray discs. However, it also stops people from recording game footage via an external capture card – which is exactly how most YouTubers capture and share content for their ‘Let’s Play’ videos. Given the huge popularity of YouTube gaming channels, Sony was disallowing a very potent form of community marketing.The capacity to record and stream games footage is a new addition to this generation of consoles and is expected to become a major social feature. Barely a month after the launch of Ps4,Sony revealedthat 20m minutes of game footage had been shared by players. Both PS4 and Xbox 360 both automatically record the last several minutes of gaming action, so players are able to share spectacular moments with their friends at the touch of a button.The ability to actually stream live sessions over Twitch is also proving popular. The channel has 45 million viewers worldwide.•Xbox One gets Twitch broadcasting in time for Titanfall• PS4 or Xbox One? A parent’s guide
The online room-rental service Airbnb is reportedly close to securing a new round of funding that would value the company at $10bn – making it worth more than several leading hotel chains.The Wall Street Journal reportedon Thursday that the San Francisco-based company is in advanced talks to raise between $400m and $500m with private-equity firm TPG. At $10bn, Airbnb would be one of the world’s most valuable startups and worth more than than Hyatt Hotels ($8.3bn) or Wyndham Worldwide ($9.4bn).Founded in 2008, Airbnb allows individuals to rent out rooms, apartments and homes for short stays. The company is arguably the world’s largest hotel company, having helped set up more than 10m stays in 550,000 rooms in 34,000 cities. It added nearly 250,000 properties to its service in 2013.Airbnb’s popularity has attracted the ire of hotel chains who claim the service allows renters to dodge lodging taxes and that the company should be regulated in the same way that they are.New York attorney general Eric Schneiderman subpoenaed Airbnb last October demanding information on its15,000 hosts in the state. New York state law prohibits renters from subletting their homes for less than 30 days if the host is not present. The challenge came after Airbnb had pledged to work with the state to collect occupancy taxes and root out bad actors. The company is contesting the order, arguing it is unreasonably broad.Airbnb’s valuation has quadrupled since it last raised money in 2012 at a price that valued it at $2.5bn from investors including PayPal billionaire Peter Thiel’s Founders Fund, Andreessen Horowitz and Sequoia Capital. Ashton Kutcher is another of the company’s early backers.The company is part of the so-called “sharing economy” that has shaken up the taxi industry as well as the hotel industry withservices like Uberand Lyft that allow people to use their own cars to freelance as part-time taxi drivers. Uber is valued at $3.8bn, following an investment last year by Google Ventures, TPG and others.
In celebration of its eighth birthday, Twitter is offering users the chance to take a trip down memory lane, by looking up their very first tweet on the site.The company has launchedFirst-Tweets.com, letting every user rediscover what was on their mind as they joined the social network. The results range from the banal:Wondering where my phone charger is.&mdash; Alex Hern (@alexhern)April 10, 2007to the confused:Trying to find people on Twitter. So many people following me and I&#39;ve never done a single tweet until this very minute. Oh, such solipsism.&mdash; Charles Arthur (@charlesarthur)March 14, 2008Taking in the mandatory food tweets:Just had a superb Japanese lunch with the guys from Parys PR.&mdash; Jemima Kiss (@jemimakiss)December 20, 2006(Jemima Kiss comments: “I actually remember that lunch, it really was amazing”)And, very occasionally, something actually interesting:i am still alive&mdash; John Cleese (@JohnCleese)December 3, 2007It’s fair to say that the majority of twitter users didn’t really have much of an idea what the site was when they signed up. But then, even the very first tweet ever was rather more inward looking than you’d get away with these days:just setting up my twttr&mdash; Jack Dorsey (@jack)March 21, 2006At least most people’s first tweets don’t attract quite as much abuse as this one:Today I&#39;ll present a Budget that tackles the economy&#39;s problems head on helping those who want to work hard &amp; get onpic.twitter.com/20nyTj0UCF&mdash; George Osborne (@George_Osborne)March 20, 2013What was your first tweet? How does it look in hindsight?Can you bear to find out?
ReemoThe Reemo gesture band is aims to turn the real world into a point and click environment. It does not require the dexterity of a smartphone tap or a mouse click, but instead recognises simple pointing and waving gestures, with receivers hooked up to appliances around the home.The developers, Playtabase, expect the band itself to cost around $125 with receivers costing around $30 in May this year. While home automation, fitness and gaming are obvious applications, Playtabase also suggested that the Reemo could be used by the elderly or those with limited muscle control for simplified interactions with computers and other controllable objects. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianOptinvent OraAn alternative to Google Glass and Vuzix smart glasses, the Optinvent Ora augmented reality glasses put a see-through screen in your vision.Effectively built on an Android smartphone with data but without phone connectivity, the Ora smartglasses have a screen three-times larger than Google Glass, overlaying information on your vision as you go about your day.The screen can be mounted directly in your line of sight or flipped down to just below for at-a-glance information. Optinvent is looking for developers and enterprise partners to pick up the smartglasses, which cost €700, to create at least 40 apps before launching for consumers in 2015. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSnapWatchThe SnapWatch concept, first theorised in 1999 and patented in 2005, pairs a flexible display to a snap band reminiscent of the Slap Bracelets of the 1980s and 1990s.When struck against the wrist the band coils around, forming a fitted bracelet. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe bi-stable nature of the snap concept allows the SnapWatch to be used as both a long solid strip or as a bracelet.The concept, which currently uses an electrochromic display, has been built into prototypes of music players, watches and smartwatches. The inventor, Vincent Douglas, admits that some miniaturisation is required on the control circuitry part, but is actively looking for partners to make the SnapWatch a reality beyond simple prototypes, now that display technology like flexible E-ink has come to fruition. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianAiQ smart clothingAiQ is a smart clothing manufacturer, which has created super-thin stainless steel fibres that feel like wool. These fibres are weaved through the fabric enabling a whole range of smart features.A top is currently available that has the wiring running across the chest can be used with a heart rate monitor to measure a person’s heart rate during training, but AiQ are working with universities in Taiwan on much more than that.A concept design that can measure a wearers EEG, ECG, stress levels, fat content, muscle strength or anything else that uses current applied through the skin is expected to be in prototype form within six months, powered by a clip-on Bluetooth module.  Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianSunFriendThe SunFriend is a watch-like device that uses sensors to measure your UVA and UVB exposure from the Sun. Users can alter their skin sensitivity rating creating a personalised dosage meter, getting a warning when they have hit their limit.It was developed over three years off the back of some Nasa technology around UV monitoring. The SunFriend is waterproof to 3m and will be available for around £40 in the next month. A more advanced version, which links to a smartphone via Bluetooth for displaying information, is currently under development and is expected in the first quarter of 2015. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianVraseVrase is essentially an Oculus Rift that uses a smartphone for the display. The accessory headset straps to the face with a slot for a smartphone – the iPhone and a variety of Android phones are currently supported.The smartphone is then used to display a split screen image, which the Vrase headset turns into a 3D picture. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe lenses in the Vrase, pictured here in prototype form, allow the wearers eyes to focus on the phone’s screen. Vrase has been in development for one year, based on a concept from three years ago. It will be available for around €100 in the summer, after successfully passing its Kickstarter funding goal.As the developers of Vrase state, one advantage the accessory has over most other virtual reality headset designs is the rapid technological evolution of the smartphone. It can utilise the increasing power of smartphones, as well as their equipment including the motion sensors and cameras to create more immersive and constantly up to date experiences, as well as benefitting from the Android and Apple app stores. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianGlofasterDeveloped over the last two years by ex-Royal Marine Simon Weatherall, Glofaster is a light-up jacket that pairs with sensors to detect your heart rate and give the wearer instant visual feedback on while training.The original idea appeared on the BBC’s Dragon’s Den, starting out with some wires, lights, velcro and some brave volunteers. The jacket, design by former Abercrombie and Fitch designer Joanna Kent, is now washable, has integrated light strips and is powered by a removable battery pack for £99.The electronic component of the system called The Gizmo, which connects to sensors and a smartphone app, is still under development and is expected to be ready for manufacturing in the next six months. Photograph: Alex Hern/The GuardianSunSpriteThe product of two PhD graduates from Harvard, the SunSprite is a UV and light exposure meter that uses special filters to match the level of bright light entering your eye.The little sensor is solar powered, connecting to a smartphone via Bluetooth, but also displaying your light dosage at a glance on a strip of LEDs.While it can be used to measure UV exposure, the SunSprite is designed to measure bright light exposure for treating and monitoring seasonal affective disorder (Sad) – a condition that can cause depression and other negative effects when a person does not get enough bright light exposure via the eyes, often more prevalent in winter. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianKopin Golden-i 3.8DLooking like something out of a science fiction war film, the Kopin Golden-i 3.8D is an advanced ruggedised wearable computer, built around an Android smartphone without the cellular connectivity, just like the Optinvent Ora.It has a 14-megapixel camera complete with zoom, responds to voice commands and runs Android 4.2 complete with a custom interface and Skype, allowing headset to headset communication.Kopin, however, is aiming this at anyone who needs hands-free access to information while on the job. It is the fifth generation of the system costing $1,500, and is being used as a reference design for manufacturers targeting enterprise. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian
Wearable computing faces an uphill battle breaking through to the mainstream, new data shows.Smartwatches are only half as popular as fitness bands in the UK - but neither has yet gone beyond the “early adopter” stage, according to data from the research company KWP ComTech.In all there are 426,000 smartwatches currently owned in Great Britain, the company says, meaning that less than 1% of the population owns one.Of those owners, 72% (306,000) are male, 56% (238,000) are aged under 35 and 34% (145,000) live in London.By contrast, fitness bands such as the Nike Fuelband, Fitbit One or Shine are more widely used with 1.8% penetration, representing about 1 million owners.Of the smartwatch owners, KWP ComTech says that Samsung had the leading share, with 32% (136,000), followed by Sony on 21% (89,000) and the Kickstarter-funded Pebble on 18% (77,000).Samsung’s promotional efforts last year with its Galaxy Gear may have helped it to that position, suggests Dominic Sunnebo, global consumer insight director at KWP. Despite the product being poorly reviewed, “it got to the stage where Samsung was giving away the Galaxy Gear for free with sales of the Galaxy Note [phablet],” he told the Guardian.He is confident that the data is robust: “we asked our panel of 15,000 people, representative of the UK population, and those are the numbers that came from it.” The company only looked at the UK in Europe because “we think that the UK is going to be the market with the highest penetration for these”.The popularity of fitness bands likely grows from the fact that “people are willing to spend money on it - it’s becoming incredibly popular in the UK after the Olympics. These days rather than buying a motorbike, the mid-life crisis for many men involves squeezing into sports gear - they’re called MAMILs, or middle-aged men in lycra.”•Google has released a developer preview of its Android Wear software for wearable computing
Konami; PS3, PS4 (version tested), Xbox 360, Xbox One; 18+; £24The most impressive thing about Metal Gear Solid V: Ground Zeroes' opening cutscene is its brevity. This is a series that, for all its brilliance, is equally known for over-indulging creator and director Hideo Kojima's cinematic leanings; a weakness that reached a nadir with 2008's Metal Gear Solid 4, a nearly-amazing game smothered by exhaustingly long interstitials.Ground Zeroes opens with a long tracking shot of the main antagonist in a prison camp. The next few minutes showcase the new standard of animation tech from the top-tier Kojima Productions – individual fingers waggle, eyes track with subtlety rather than staccato movements, and facial movements add a convincing emotional resonance to every line. The whole thing is over in a few minutes, and all the more powerful for it. Finally, it seems, Kojima has learned that less is more.And how true that turns out to be. The most divisive aspect of Ground Zeroes is undoubtedly its alleged length, which depending on your source is anything from ten minutes to two hours, and its strange status as a Metal Gear Solid and the prequel to a real Metal Gear Solid. What all this means is that Ground Zeroes is the opening act for a game, The Phantom Pain, that will be released at some yet-unknown point in the future, and as such consists of only one (sizeable) location and a series of missions and challenges to be carried out within it.Put so baldly, this can sound like a raw deal and, when the credits roll after a few hours on the main mission, feels like it too. Then you return to the main menu and at the bottom see Completion ranked at nine percent. Which doesn't seem to add up. Kojima Productions' greatest mistake with Ground Zeroes is rolling the credits so early, because it makes the opening of the game seem like the entirety – your instinctual thought is "that's it?"Of course it isn't. Ground Zeroes has six missions in total that unlock as you play, which in turn are unlocking more gear and extras and challenges as you go through them.The big problem is the single environment, because though this is quality over quantity it's also pushing that concept to the limit. Nevertheless this 'military prison' is a fantastic space, stretching across a long and curving rocky coastline, incorporating various makeshift camps, holding cages, countless minor buildings, and a fortified complex. There are great dips in the landscape to crawl through, craggy outcrops to clamber, and smooth open spaces where enemy sightlines are long and unfettered. I've spent days creeping around it and am still finding new things, not to mention that the layout is remixed for each mission.This focus on mastering a setting plays into one of Ground Zeroes' biggest changes to the MGS formula - a pair of "binoculars" that can be brought up instantly at any point, and used to listen into chats and "mark" foes who stay that way permanently. Such visual aids may be anathema to the hardcore crowd, but it's a mechanic that plays right into Metal Gear's strengths and doesn't cheapen the enemy threat one iota. Sneaking around in soldiers' proximity is incredibly tense, and the surround sound is superb at letting you pick out not just direction and distance but even the surface an enemy's walking on.In a sense everything is staked on the AI, because Ground Zeroes has to be surprising in countless different configurations. These soldiers are a great mix of rote behaviour and kinks, with the traditional set patrol routes mixing into oddities like sniffles and what can be an incredibly distressing habit of checking over their shoulders. They also, if checking out something suspicious, radio command to say what they're doing – and if they suddenly go quiet, others will be coming to check out why. This 'connected' quality extends across the opposition – at one point I shot down a surveillance camera with a silenced pistol and, as I was congratulating myself, enemy command instructed the nearest troops to go and find out why it had stopped transmitting.Other innovations include 'reflex' moments; when spotted, the game moves into slow-motion for a few seconds during which you can headshot that enemy to avoid them alerting command. The idea is great but it's the implementation that takes it home, with rounds moving slowly through the air as bullet casings cartwheel out, and a squelchy sound effect for "successful" shots that's equal parts disturbing and a relief.Ground Zeroes is more than anything a showcase for imagination, experimentation, and play for play's sake, because there is simply so much to do in and around this environment.It's not a game where following the objective markers gets the best results. No mission actuallyforcesyou to silently steal a truck and drive around the base under the speed limit – though if you do, the enemy soldiers won't take a second look. Or perhaps you'd prefer to nick a tank and just blow everyone away. Personally, I enjoy setting multiple C4 charges around the main helipad, walking out and, as the enemies congregate, pushing that button and calling in my chopper – which descends to Wagner's Ride of the Valkyries.I don't usually share progress stats in reviews, because it's a slippery slope and mostly irrelevant, but in the case of Ground Zeroes I've been playing fairly solidly over three days and sit at just over 40% completion. There are concerns about only one map, which by some lights are justified, but the idea that this delivers only a few hours of entertainment is grossly unfair – not least because Ground Zeroes marks a new kind of real-world engagement in the work of Hideo Kojima and Kojima Productions.One of the contradictions that makes Metal Gear such an interesting series is the central theme of war being a great evil, one that creates more monsters than it ever destroys, rubbing up against what can only be called a fetish for military gadgets and hardware.The Metal Gear games are set in a version of the real world's history, where dates and facts are closely observed, which leads to Ground Zeroes' missions beginning with the designation of 'pseudo-historical accounts. But this is clear: 'Ground Zeroes is explicitly 'about' and based in Guantanamo Bay. And as the repeating structure and evolving narrative are at pains to point out, black sites like this and their grey legal status are a tribute to bureaucracy's unerring ability to triumph over ethics and what is "right" - just ask President Obama. If Kafka was alive today he'd be writing about Guantanamo, but instead we have Hideo Kojima and an irony; a medium predicated on interaction, a game about tactical espionage action, with an overarching theme of political inaction.Some of what we witness in this camp really tears the mask off the follies our governments commit in the name of war, and the injustice (or extrajudical-ness) of Guantanamo Bay's continuing existence. The name 'Ground Zeroes' is in part a reference to a Metal Gear character, Zero, which in turn is a British military callsign meaning HQ. Hideo Kojima loves multi-layered titles, so here we have not just the traditional meaning of "ground zero" – a starting point for MGSV: The Phantom Pain – but an indication of Zero's connection. Ground Zero is also notable as contemporary shorthand for the ruins of the twin towers, so drawing a line and equivalence between 9/11 and the existence of Guantanamo.Beyond even that, Ground Zeroes holds what little moral this collection of stories has. The prisoners you find in one part of this game's map are locked in cages, manacled, with bags over their heads and identical yellow jumpsuits. Stick around and you'll hear the guards, when patrolling these areas, refer to them as animals – "mutts". From interrogation tapes you acquire, and their delirious mumblings as you carry them out, it is clear not one has survived the experience without being somewhat mentally broken by it.As the game makes clear over and over, these are legally non-people, stateless individuals that nobody wants and nobody is coming to save – except in a video game. They are non-people being gradually broken-down because that's what this place exists for; the ground-down zeroes of Ground Zeroes. It is surprising, and not a little depressing, that all people want to talk about with this game is the running time.
At this year’s Bafta video game awards, one of the most telling moments was when Dr Who producer Steven Moffat took to the stage and declared “[Games] are going to own the future. I am here chiefly to crawl to my new bosses.”This is an industry that makes $60bn a year, it is an industry that’s bigger than Hollywood, that dwarves the music business – and although it often struggles to gain recognition, an increasing number of young people want to work in it. Which is why hundreds of universities throughout the world offer degree courses in computer games programming and design.It is a good time to join. With the arrival of digital distribution, games now have a bigger audience than ever; they are beamed directly to our phones, PC, consoles and tablets. Five years ago, it took millions of dollars and a team of 200 to bring a new project to PlayStation or Xbox, and while those Triple A giants still exist, it’s also possible for a lone programmer or a small team to garner a worldwide audience. Just look at Flappy Bird.We are also entering an era of diverse artistic and emotional expression. It’s no longer about dumb muscle-heads saving the princess (not that games were ever about just that), this is a creative medium bursting with interesting, weird and challenging ideas. In the70s , kids turned to guitars and the punk movement to express themselves, now they’re just as likely to write and distribute games that reach thousands.But getting in to the industry is not easy – even if your plan is to make games in your bedroom. To get a few pointers, we spoke to a range of established indie coders and studio bosses about how fledgling developers should get started. Here’s what they had to say.The PanelPaul Taylor – co-founder,Mode7 GamesRhodri Broadbent – co-founder ofDakko Dakko, previously at Q-Games and LionheadAj Grand-Scrutton – CEO,Dlala StudiosAdam Saltsman– indie developer, creator of Canabalt and HundredsSte Pickford–co-founderZee-3 digital publishingAlistair Aitcheson– indie developer, creator of Greedy Bankers and Slamjet StadiumSimon Barrett – founder,FourDoorLemonDan Marshall – indie developer,SizeFiveGamesByron Atkinson-Jones – ex-Lionhead coder, now indie developer atXiotexLisa Brown - designer, Insomniac GamesSarah Ford – indie developerAdriel Wallick– Indie developerAllison Salmon – game developer and software engineer, Learning Games Network, ex-Raven SoftwareJennifer Schneidereit– co-founderNyamyam, ex-Rare DesignRami Ismail – co-founder,VlambeerWhat’s the best way to start making games?Rhodri Broadbent:I’m a traditionalist and I don’t think you can go wrong by jumping straight in to C++, or Objective C if you’re iOS inclined. The most important thing is simply to start programming insomething, so that you can learn the common principles, logic, and techniques. Everyone should learn how to program, because it’s really not difficult to get the basics, and if you want to take it further then there are countless directions you can go with it. Games is only one. The best one, sure. But only one.Paul Taylor:I would say Game Maker and Unity are good starting points if someone really wants to jump in at the deep end. If it suits the game you want to do, Ren’py and RPG Maker are also quite fun tools but a bit arcane. If you’ve never programmed anything at all and you want to get a little flavour of it, I’d say make a basic Twine game as your very first project, using only the built-in stuff and maybe some “if” statements. You’ll soon see the benefits (and necessity) of coding.C++ is still a great language to learn for game development. Also if you want to be super cool like Mode 7, you can have a look at the Torque Game Engine which is now open source and has a big knowledge base. There are also a couple of good starter books, like3D Game Programming All-in Onewhich is a bit old and cranky now but still makes a good first text.AJ Grand-Scrutton:I think you can start in a number of ways. Whether it’s just drawing pictures when you are little, writing a story or learning to program, there’s no real one stop answer for this stuff. I think all the tools that are available now like GameMaker, Unity, RPGMaker, Cocos all of them are great for starting out. Something like RPG Maker allows you to take just pure creative route and brute force the ‘programming’ side. However, I’d suggest learning C# first to get your head around programming logic and game logic then moving on to C/C++ if you are interested in the real heavy duty stuff.Alistair Aitcheson:Game Maker is a good choice. If you want to be a coder, then it’s a great way to learn how to build game logic and get results quickly. If you’re a designer, there’s no better way to understand how games fit together than trying to build one yourself, and this is probably the easiest tool for getting straight on and doing that. Another good alternative would be Unity, which can be coded in C# and JavaScript - both very useful languages to learn. It’s very well supported with tons of tutorials and forum threads out there, as well as a huge community. It’s also used in professional game dev as well – it’s what I’m using to build Tap Happy Sabotage!. The skills you learn in it are instantly transferable.Adriel Wallick:Personally, when I started seriously making games, I downloaded Unity and in my spare time, worked my way through a 3D version of tetris. From that point forward, I just kept making games on the side both with friends and alone until I ‘proved’ to my peers (and myself) that I could make games.I think Unity is wonderful to experiment with because it’s a powerful tool with very detailed documentation and an extremely active online community. With Unity you can make games both with and without tons of programming knowledge and when you inevitably get stuck, there is always someone somewhere who can help you out.Lisa Brown:There are so many free tools and resources out there, it is a very exciting time to start making games! (I keepa running listthat I share with students when I go give talks). My favorite tool to use for prototyping and game jams is Construct 2. It has a lot of built-in behaviors and support for sprite-based games, so it’s very easy for a beginner to pick it up and make something and see results fast, which can be quite motivating. At the same time, if you have a programming background you can do some pretty in-depth stuff in there even though it doesn’t have direct scripting. Should people learn to code? I think so! Even if you aren’t planning on becoming a programmer, it really helps you get a feel and an appreciation for the medium you’re working in – and will help you talk to your programmer teammates in the future.Allison Salmon:Find other people who want to make games and make a game together. Very few games are made by one person alone. Good places to meet other developers are at local meet-ups, game jams, on twitter and in other online communities.One Game a Monthis a good community to find other game makers at andCG Cookieis a good site for tutorials and getting started learning about making games.Simon Barratt:There are so many different ways to get started now, from a simple visual language like Scratch to a simpler text based language like Javascript or the more advanced C#. Sites like code.org allow you to go through the fundamentals that make up all the major programming languages and the logic you need to understand games and apps.Tool packages like Unity, Stencyl, Monkey X and Game Maker provide simple ways to build games and get them released.Lisa Brown:There are many passionate debates over what to learn “first.” C++ is an industry standard but it’s a cruel language to learn on. Interpreted languages are nice to learn on because it’s faster to see what you did wrong and fix it, and you can save the hurdle of “why didn’t my code compile” further down the line. I say this with a bias, as Python was the first language I ever learned.Sarah Ford:I don’t really know if there’s a ‘best’ way, other than ‘START MAKING GAMES’. What you should absolutely do is take part in a game jam, it’s a pretty cool way to meet new people and experiment. As for packages, most people seem to gravitate towards Unity nowadays but even that can be pretty intimidating if you’re not that technical. I’m useless with code so most of my beginner games were made in conjunction with coders and designers, many of whom who found my art online and dug it enough to want to work with me. It helps if you think in assets, if you’re wanting to get into games art. It’s not just about creating a picture of a cool car in a neon cityscape, it’s about thinking about all the little parts that make up that scene, from the car to the buildings which create the skyline down to the surface of the road itself.Byron Atkinson-Jones:The best way to start making games is, ironically, to just start making them. It doesn’t matter what you use to do it. Now’s never been a better time to try to make games with systems like Unity, GameMaker, Corona SDK, Stencyl and a few others out there that are designed to make the process of game making easy. I’d suggest picking one up and following the tutorials that come with it and then just start experimenting. The key though is to have fun with it, if it becomes a chore then mix it up a bit and try to get back to the fun.How about if you want to get into the art side rather than coding? Are there any tools you’d recommend there?PT:Photoshop is standard; though it certainly won’t hurt if you get good with GIMP, which is completely free. On the 3D side, Blender is free and can also get you started. 3DS Max is still kind of standard in a lot of places it seems...AJGS:There is some fantastic software out there like Sketch Up which allows you to put together 3D art in a very simple way and progress to more advance techniques when you are ready. I’d also recommend Youtube as a tool for your arsenal as it contains a lot of good tutorials for techniques, brushes, etc.SB:Photoshop and Illustrator CS2 are now free to download I believe, and combined with YouTube video lessons it should be easy to get going with exactly the tools used by professional 2D artists. For 3D art, options are a little more restricted but there are tools like Blender and educational versions of zBrush and 3DS Max which are used by the industry.AA:The most important thing I’d recommend isn’t software, but hardware. Specifically, get yourself a graphics tablet. There’s lots of them available now, and they make the process of creating game graphics so much simpler. I’ve been using the same A5 Wacom Graphire4 tablet for about 8 years - it cost me £130 and has allowed me to do work I wouldn’t have been able to otherwise.SF:If you’re a 2D artist then Photoshop and Illustrator/Flash are essential, as are the basic fundamentals of art, line, tone, colour etc. I would also make a very strong case for 2D artists to get to grips with the basics of graphic design as the essentials of shape language, page layout and a grasp of typography come in handy way more than you’d think. Actually, working with a game designer who knows their layout, colours and shape basics would be a treat beyond words, so you guys should totally take a look at that stuff too.If someone is looking to set up a small studio themselves - what advice would you give them? How do you know who to work with, and what skills does everyone need?RB:My heartfelt advice would be to try an established studio first if you can. Meet people, learn how you work and how games work, learn the dynamics, and then set up when you get a good feel for what sort of studio you want to make. This may seem somewhat conservative but I advise it not just because of how difficult setting up and publishing is, but because of how much fun learning on the job can be.Adam S:I’d actually say don’t set one up! Studios are a by-product not an end in and of themselves. The three things everyone you work with should be able to do: communicate and/or express themselves, finish their work, think.PT:You absolutely need someone who is a good programmer, and it helps if that person is also the lead designer. That way they’re driving the whole project and they can keep things moving even if other people flake out. I don’t think you can really get anywhere in a younger, more informal team if you’re not driving the code side yourself. If you do decide to go down the “group of mates” route –which Mode 7 did initially – have some kind of contract which shows who is responsible for what, and what they will get out of it at the end. Make sure everyone agrees to it in advance and make sure it’s clear.In terms of who to work with, I would say look for evidence offinishing. Finishing any kind of creative work is a skill that takes time to develop: if someone doesn’t demonstrate that ability there is no chance of them finishing anything for you and your game will be stuck in limbo while you switch artists etc. Everyone’s enthusiastic at the start so ignore that: just look at how those people behave when they’re under pressure and bored.AJGS:Apply the same mentality you would to choosing people for a band. These need to be people you would be happy to be locked in a van with for 30 days straight. You need people you can trust, who will be just as passionate about your baby as you would. Chose people you’ve worked with previously if you can, people you know can deliver and won’t slack. In terms of skill sets the more generalists the better but make sure you have: one strong creative who can be your vision holder; a programmer who is happy to get his head down, work and learn; and an artist who can do a bit of everything, including 2D, 3D and animation.Ste Pickford:I’d say keep the team size as small as possible. Coder-artist, or code and artist, should be enough to get started to make a game. Even though we’ve always tried – and mostly failed – to secure game design roles for ourselves where we’re not also developers, I’d say a dedicated game designer is a luxury you can’t afford as a start up. Not that a game designer isn’t valuable, but that a game designer in a small team who isn’t prepared to code or make art or even audio, is probably not a very good game designer.RI:Get as few people aboard as possible – it’s cheaper. Make a few games before heading for the ‘real one’ and develop your skills in a ‘T‘-shape. Know a bit about as much as possible – the horizontal line – and have deep knowledge of one thing – the vertical line.BAJ:The hardest thing about setting up your own studio is not the making of the game, that’s actually the easiest part. Managing things like business finances, making sure you can all eat regularly, marketing, PR, legal stuff, QA and selling the game once it’s done are the hardest. If you can, set up with somebody who is passionate about those aspects of the business as they will make your life a lot easier. Having said that, there’s nothing to stop you just making a game and selling it on your website. In fact - do it!Are there any key skills that people should have or things they should know that aren’t obvious or aren’t taught on design/coding courses? Anything you’ve learned through experience?RI:Communication and vulnerability are the key skills a development team needs. The ability to talk honestly and the ability to be vulnerable are crucial to making a game and to dealing with feedback properly.Adam S:Writing! Learn to write, write, write, write. Write. You need to be able to express ideas in writing. it’s not ideal, but everything is email now, and email is horrible, and you need the skills to cope with that. Writing is that skill.Kerry Turner:Don’t be discouraged if you don’t get a job in games straight away. I started out making educational software by day and working on short experimental games in the evenings. These personal projects became my portfolio, which eventually landed me a job making games.RB:Being a nice person, open to criticism and diplomatic and funny, are very important characteristics. You have to work with your team very tightly, often for long periods of time and sharing work and tasks, so you need to be able to get along. Far and away ahead of confidence and genius, the ability to contribute to the team and the culture, to show up on time and produce solid work, to be reliable and nice to have around, are the most valuable things to a potential employer. There’s no need to exaggerate things on a CV if you’re passionate and reliable and can show it.PT:You really need to have self-confidence in a particular way to be good at making games – both coding and designing. You have to believe that what you want to achieve is possible: it sounds trite – and it probably is – but I have seen a lot of programmers who see a complex problem they’ve never tackled before and then kind of give up. Intelligence most often isn’t a barrier, but confidence is.AA:Game art isn’t about looking pretty. Game art is about communicating function to players. Players need to know “what is it? How do I use it? Where is it in the physical space? Will it hurt me?” If it’s hard to tell these things at a glance then no matter how lovely your line-work is they’re not going to enjoy it because there’s a barrier between them and the great gameplay.On a similar note, as a designer the most frequent problem you’ll be solving is “I don’t get it”. Most of game design is about communication - making sure the player knows all they need to know immediately, and can get straight into that unique thing that makes your game special. You’ll need to spend a lot of time watching players play. Don’t help them, just pay attention to the looks on their faces, and try to work out which bits aren’t making sense. Then it’s up to you to find ways around that.SP:Everyone needs to learn to code. Everyone. Not necessarily to a professional standard, but to be able to understand what is going on under the hood of the project. Artists, designers, level builders, audio and even QA guys really need to understand how coding works generally, and how specific aspects of the game are working – streaming data, collision detection, memory allocation, etc – in order to do their job properly.Personally, I also want to encourage people to be able to see the difference between game mechanics/gameplay and setting/story. The first is the most important. If you’ve got a game idea that starts with describing a character or a location, you’re approaching it wrong.Think about what actions the player performs, what the interactions are within the game, and what feedback the player gets. Analyse a game as if it were just square blocks instead of detailed graphics, and think about how the elements in the game react to the player’s input, and what feedback the player receieves. That’s where the reality of a video game is: player input, interaction and feedback.LB:If you love making games, it is consuming. I grew up playing games, but I got into the industry because I discovered that the problem set of making games was almost addictive for me. So I have to accept that I look at games in a completely different lens now and that there’s a weird sort of difference from the person I used to be who just loved to experience games. Every now and then I get wistful for when I was just a consumer of games because I can never have that back, but fortunately the love of the work is strong enough that I’m okay with that, and I’ve played so many life-changing games because I’m seeking them through the lens of a developer. I probably would not have encountered those games on my own before. Anyway, just be advised that a transformation takes place there that you should expect.AW:The one thing that continuously surprises me is the fact that no one knows what they’re doing. I used to think that other game developers, once they became more experienced, knew everything there was to know about games. In reality, this medium is so new and so ever-changing, that everyone seems to be flailing around (some less than others) trying to figure out what to do next. If you have an idea, just start working on it - don’t wait for someone’s approval, and don’t wait for someone else to tell you that they think it’s a good idea. Just try it out and see what happens. This is an industry where risks and innovation are celebrated, so just start making things.How about if someone wants to get into the mainstream industry, as a coder, artist or designer, what should they be doing for their CV?AJGS:Now this is going to sound obvious but you’d be surprised how often people don’t do this. You need to have practical evidence of your skill. A lot of uni students are guilty of not doing this, they will focus all their time on their coursework and don’t work on a portfolio. The reality is, a degree is effectively gravy compared to an actual portfolio. If I’m hiring you for a job I’m not interested in whether you did three years at University and were judged good enough to get a certificate by someone else, I’m interested in you being able to show me practical application of your skill. What amazes me is the number of students who tell me they don’t have the time to work on a portfolio then in the next breath talk about the next game they are playing. If you have time to game you have time to work on a portfolio.The other thing that amazes me is people who don’t reach out to each other. At university, on forums, etc, there are a load of people in the same position with multiple disciplines: put together a little team and you can work on one project between you that sits on all of your CVs. The best way to show people you can make games is to make games.RB:Make stuff, make stuff, make stuff. It’s invaluable experience as well as demonstrating initiative, passion, and intent to learn. The most important thing to do is to try. Knock up demos and concepts, get things moving on screen. There’s very little more motivating than simply making stuff work and interacting with something you’re making. Here’s the biggie: Don’t give up on projects. Too many people throw away good things because they get a bit stuck, it doesn’t work as expected, or something else shiny and exciting comes along. But there is great value in finishing things and getting used to how difficult that final 10 percent of the game development process is. If you don’t finish things, you won’t learn how worthwhile all that extra effort is – or be able to plan for it the next timeYou can’t possibly know how to make games without doing it, and no potential employer will expect you to be able to do it all. The fact that you have tried it though, shown love and skill for it, and want to do it more will be far more useful than a good academic record – although that should also not be undervalued. There are many areas of the industry that still love a solid redbrick university degree.SP:The hardest part of game development is finishing, so finishing a small project is way more valuable than plans and work-in-progress for a big, ambitious project, or tech demos or even portfolio work. Not that there shouldn’t be portfolio work, but no finished game to show is a big weakness. I think finished, polished projects, regardless of platform or format – even something like a little Tetris or Space Invaders clone – trump everything else.Is a degree in computer games programming or design a necessity?Allison S:Passion and experience still carry a lot of weight in the game industry. Everyone should have a portfolio to show in interviews. But if you are leaning towards being a software engineer I do highly recommend getting a bachelors in computer science. Increasingly, AAA game development is going the way of other software industries where one of their base requirements for software engineering is a CS degree or equivalent experience. A great portfolio might overrule this requirement but it is a great fall back. A degree in computer science opens up a lot of career options should you decide that the video game industry isn’t for you or if you need a day job while you are getting your indie game company off the ground.JS:For newcomers a degree is definitely helpful, especially if you are looking to go into mainstream games. A lot of companies are looking for candidates with a solid educational background and passion. People that already have 3-5 years experience in the industry can probably get by without a degree, as long as they have worked on notable titles. In the independent world there are a lot of people who are self-taught, learning by doing. This works great for people who are driven and good at self teaching. What unites all game developers is a passion for making games, and this is pretty much the number one requirement.KT:I’m somewhat biased on this one because my degree is in English Literature, but no - I don’t think it’s at all important. All the skills and knowledge that you’d get from a games or tech related degree can be picked up if you’re willing to put the hours in. Books, tutorials, lots of practice. When I hire developers, experience, attitude and portfolio are far more important than what - or if - you chose to study as a teenager.LB:I think that being able to show what you can do is the most important, and experience and passion are a way of getting there, and school is just one way of getting that experience. There are a lot of things to consider when making that choice. Depending on the quality of the program schools can be good ways of getting access to resources, like-minded aspiring developers, and an industry network, but it isn’t theonlyway of getting those things. It’s just, like, is that the best method for you personally? Is the trade-off for tuition worth it? The answer will be different for everyone.Considering that the games industry is currently heavily dominated by men, do you have any extra advice for young women looking to get into making games, either in the indie or mainstream sectors?JS:Don’t be afraid of the boys. Treat everyone equally and with respect. If you see that people are not giving you the same courtesy, look for other opportunities until you find a place that is right for you. Most importantly though remember that we are making games for people and not gender stereotypes.SF:Never give up, and never doubt yourself because of your gender. When I first started in the industry I was so scared that my designs wouldn’t be ‘cool’ because I was never a teenage boy, and ‘cool’ seemed to mean ‘teenage boy cool’, which actuallyisn’tthe epitome of cool. I tore myself up about it before I realised it’s just another art style. Gender is mostly a cultural thing.Allison S:My experience with working in AAA development was that my co-workers were far more welcoming than the gaming community at large. I experienced far more discrimination and harassment during my time in college then I did while working in AAA. So I guess some of my advice would be don’t let the unfriendliness of certain gamer cultures scare you away from the video game industry.My other advice would be try to find and create a network of support from both other women and men. Reach out to other women who make games and are interested in making games. Some places to start might be some of the groups organised around women in games – for exampleIGDA Women in Games special interest group,Dames making GamesorWomen in games International.LB:So, I didn’t know I wanted to work in the games industry untiljustbefore I started working in the games industry, so a lot of the issues didn’t start becoming apparent to me until after I was already in here. I have been extremely fortunate to work at an amazing studio and have never faced any horror stories personally, but that stuff is out there and very real. The more common frustration is wading through the inertia of what the “default” is. I guess my advice would be: speak up, don’t let anything slide for being “the way it is” if you feel like there’s something wrong, call people on their BS, and know that there is support out there for you and you should never hesitate to ask for it if you are facing something and need it.AW:This is a hard one, because there’s no one right answer. I’ve been struggling with how to answer this a lot lately as I would love to see more diversity in the industry - but I have no idea what to say to them to prepare them for the amount of subtle and unintentional sexism they will experience – not to mention the intentional stuff.If you’re up for it (honestly, not everyone is - and that’s okay), try to fight the subtle sexism where you can. Don’t fear standing up for yourself if you’re trying to improve the industry at large. It’s something that I’ve actively been trying to get better at, and it’s scary and intimidating. One statement that I have not quite figured out how to respond to yet is, “Wow! A girl/woman/chick programmer? You never see those!”. I know that most times people are exclaiming that because they are generally excited to see that women are in technology and love that an example of diversity is right in front of them - but in reality it makes me feel like an exotic zoo animal. I generally try to launch into a soft answer about how we’re becoming more and more prevalent and that I’ve always liked programming, but it’s a weird hit to my self-esteem.This is a wonderful industry full of wonderful people, but be prepared to feel uncomfortable with yourself and with others. It’s something that will get better over time as you become more accepting of the fact that you’re just who you are - but it takes work.Are there any books, talks or YouTube videos you’d recommend to fledgling game developers?BAJ:Programming Game AI By Example – Mat BucklandArtificial Intelligence for Games – Ian MillingtonPhysics for Game Developers – David M BourgReal-Time Collision Detection – Christer EricsonThere’s also a good YouTube series,Math for Game Developers.RI:Game Feel – Steve SwinkHomo Ludens – Johan HuizingaRules of Play: Game Design Fundamentals – Katie Salen and Eric ZimmermanUnderstanding Comics – Scott McCloudAs for videos:Juice It or Lose It,Say How You play, and anything onGame Talks.AA:Juice It or Lose It is one of the best talks ever, showing how adding all kinds of audio-visual responses to your game can make it come alive. Every user input or important action needs to have an audio-visual response to feel immersive – it’s the difference between a floaty game that feels unfinished, and a game where the player feels empowered and the world feels alive.JS:The GDC vault has a really good selection of sessions from all areas of game development and a good portion of these are free. It is also worth looking outside of video games, how do industrial designers work? What kind of methods exist for being ‘creative’? And so on.Allison S:The#1ReasonToBepanel from GDC 2012 is a really good. Also, from WGDS13, Keith Fuller’s talk,Why You Shouldn’t Go Into Game Development, But If You Do...AJGS:In terms of books for game design my all time favourite is Jesse Schell’s The Art Of Game Design: A Book Of Lenses. I would also recommend picking up the accompanying deck of cards, A Deck of Lenses. It’s the only game design book I’ve read and actually fully related to and loved. In terms of starting a studio or running a team you should read The Lean Startup by Eric Ries.PT:I have to toot my own horn and plugmy own YouTube vidabout making your first game. I’d read Tom Francis’blog about making Gunpointfrom start to finish and watched his talk from Minecon last year – he has some really interesting insights into the process.Adam S:You should read Understanding Comics by Scott McCloud and A Theory of Fun by Raph Koster. If you’re feeling particularly daring, you should also read The Timeless Way of Building by Christopher Alexander.RI:I recommend people to play games they’d normally be uncomfortable with and then to stop playing games for inspiration and start doing other things. Read books, watch documentaries, go skydive. Do things. Live life. Creativity depends on your breadth of knowledge and experiences. The more you have, the better you’ll be.Finally, are there any games you’d recommend that all new developers should play?AJGS:You need to play everything you can. This includes games you don’t think you will like and platforms you will never touch. If you are building yourself up to be the next great storyteller it’s very easy to avoid F2P and mobile. This is bad: you need to embrace games you don’t like and be able to put down on paper why it is you don’t like them. You may hate games like Candy Crush Saga but you will learn both good and bad lessons from playing them.I’d recommend playing Half Life and then reading the design paper from 1997 that the Valve guys did on GamaSutra. My favourite game is LucasArt’s Day Of The Tentacle, play it for the great storytelling and dialogue and how to keep a game fresh throughout multiple play sessions. Play Mario 64 if for nothing else than the control system – that game in my opinion is the perfect feel for controlling a character.JS:I think it is important to play games that fall out of your comfort zone. Play and analyse games that don’t appeal to you as a player. It is easy to get caught up into that little bubble of games that match your tastes and opinions. To grow as a game creator it is important to be able to appreciate, respect and understand games of all types and genres.LB:If you’re into 2D platforming, play and dissect the original Yoshi’s Island on SNES. Actually, I’d say play three games in a row, Super Mario Bros 3, Super Mario World, and then Yoshi’s Island so you can see how the genre evolves and how elegantly Yoshi’s Island does creative twists on the platforming legacy it grew out of. It’s wonderful. That’s a more general observation, actually, I could give a list of games I think were important, but I’m not sure that you’d get the same insights out of them unless you also studied what they came out of. Like, would Majora’s Mask still seem amazing if you had never played any of the previous Zelda games? I do not know the answer to this!RB:I always recommend a few classic console games for study:Wario Ware Inc (GBA) – This game shows like no other the power of simply interacting in games. It exemplifies the power of the A button, when combined with creative minds and feedback-obsessed programmers. The simplest things are made into hilarious and rewarding challenges, and the art style embraces and accentuates the tech’s limitations to create a visually striking and timeless game. Oh how I wish I’d made Wario Ware.Pac-Man Champion Edition (XBOX 360) – It’s good for study because of how tightly wound together all of its elements are. It captures the core joy of pac-man – ‘collect things whilst avoiding other things’ – and ties it to a performance-based score multiplier. It also syncs a fixed timer to the game speed and the presentation, and then adds the incredibly elegant way in which ‘stages’ are re-imagined to never, never stop the action as it builds in speed and audio/visual madness. They achieve this by redefining stage layouts to be half-a-screen sections and hot-swappable rather than a full screen map, and then triggering a refresh of one side when the player collects a fruit from the other. It all melds together to make one of the finest examples of tight design, and of understanding by the designers of their game’s core. Geometry Wars 2 would be a good substitute in the same category for similar reasons.Yoshi’s Island (SNES) – A shining example of sprawling yet welcoming level design, of how complex doesn’t have to mean difficult with regard to controls, and perhaps best-in-class usage of a platform game’s core mechanics in stage design gimmicks and tricks. It adds many elements to the more traditional Mario formula, such as hovering, shooting, targeting, and of course, targeting-and-shooting-whilst-hovering, but all in such a well presented and balanced way as to make it seem no more complicated than the games it builds on. Also it’s a visual and aural masterpiece. And has some amazing boss battles.PT:If you’re interested in design, try to play the games that influenced the ones you like now, including older stuff. If you are trying to analyse a game, don’t stop at, “if I just added sniper rifles to this, it would be cool” – think about all the ways that adding sniper rifles could really hurt the game; try to understand design as a precarious balance, not just a shopping list of awesome shit.I think it’s good to get into a hardcore multiplayer game to some extent at some point in your life, be it something like EVE, CS, Starcraft, Dota... something with a high skill ceiling and a big user-base. Just understanding how the communities work around that sort of game is very interesting. That’s far from essential but doing this as an adult really opened my eyes to why gamers behave as they do and I kind of wish I’d had it earlier in my life.But really, truly, what you should be doing is seriously playing the gamesyoulove. The feelings you get doing that now will be the things you try and recapture later on when you’re designing yourself. You never get as completely thrilled by games as you do when you’re young and enthusiastic, so make the most of it.
One of the co-founders of the Occupy Wall Street movementhas called on Barack Obama to resign as president, and “appoint Eric Schmidt CEO of America”.Justine Tunney, a self-styled “champagne tranarchist”, is now a software engineer at Google, but remains involved with Occupy Wall Street, through theoccupywallst.orgwebsite, which she created.In the petition, which currently has two signatures (a far cry from the 195,000 who followthe Occupy Wall Street twitter accountTunney started in 2011),she calls on Obama to arrange a national referendum to:Retire all government employees with full pensions.Transfer administrative authority to the tech industry.Appoint Eric Schmidt CEO of America.Tunney previously hit headlines when she reclaimed control of the Occupy Wall Street twitter account in February, and mooted the possibility of raising $1m to form a “non-violent militia”. Yasha Levine, a reporter for Silicon Valley publication Pando Daily,noted the seeming discrepancy between Tunney’s former anarchist beliefs and her current role at Google.Since her arrival at the firm, he writes, “she has become an astroturfer par excellence for the company, including showing up in a comment section to bash my reporting on Google’s vast for-profit surveillance operation.”“It never ceases to amaze me how far people have to stretch in order to denounce the one corporation that gives away everything for free,” she wrote. Explaining on Twitter why she thinks anti-capitalism is compatible with promotion of her employers,she argued that“Tech companies expropriate ad money from capitalists to build a superintelligence &amp; don’t pay dividends!”“Silicon Valley is firmly post-capitalist. There just isn’t a name for it yet, nor an intellectual [assessment],”she continued.•When using open source makes you an enemy of the state
As with any buzz topic in the tech world, there’s a lot of bunkum around the Internet of Things. And in the security sphere, there’s much unnecessary FUD - Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt – spread by industry vendors to get people suitably scared so they splash cash on purportedly necessary protection.Take the case of the spamming refrigerator. Researchers suggested the smart fridge had been compromised to relay reams of annoying emails, as often happens to normal PCs. YetSymantec discovered the fridge was simply on the same networkand using the same IP address as a hacked Windows PC, which was really the thing responsible for the spam. Digital listeria this was not.Yet there are reasons to be fearful of the Internet of Things (IoT), a name covering the networks of embedded devices, from smart meters to connected automobiles, which communicate with each other in an automated fashion to help make our lives more efficient.Such connected, autonomous machines have been around for years, but the reason it is now on the tips of tech firms’ PR tongues every day is that the number of connected devices is escalating rapidly into new areas, like toothbrushes and bathtubs. According to Gartner estimates,the IoT will consist of 26 billion units by 2020, and by that time the industry will be worth $300 billion.The problem is that many of the manufacturers of these machines are not taking the secure-by-design approach. “They are learning on the job at this point in time,” says Gunter Ollmann, chief technology officer atIOActive, a consultancy firm that has done much research on IoT security.Hacking vehiclesThere are a handful of real and present threats. In automobiles, trucks are a major concern. Many contain standardised code to manage vehicles, such as the control area network (CAN) bus protocol, used for internal communications between devices in a vehicle.“CAN messages that control physical attributes are standardised. Therefore, if you figure out a hack for one manufacturer others will be quite similar if not identical,” says Chris Valasek, director of security intelligence for IOActive.One of the functions that has understandably worried onlookers in the trucking and security industries is the kill switch that powers the vehicles down. “Some fleets use the GPS tracking and ‘check-out’ systems to control access to the trucks when they are in depots or secure overnight storage locations to prevent the truck being stolen,” Ollmann adds.“The open architecture of the trucks CAM bus has made it much easier for the integration of fleet tracking and control technologies like these. But conceptually, any wireless technology that can receive remote commands and affect the operation of a truck is a potential target for researchers and targets. What if someone figures out the master shutdown code for all the trucks, and they get all the trucks in London to stop at 7am?”It’s a nasty thought, but this isn’t science fiction. Trucking companies are working with Ollmann and his team to close off any potential flaws that could lead to disaster. “We’re working with some of them and doing additional research on this now … they’re worried about it.”The car industry is alive to the problems too, at least in its more progressive corners. When Valasek and noted security researcher Chris Miller showed on video how they could hack a car when inside the vehicle (below), it gave rise to both mirth and misery in the car industry.Tesla has reacted the most positively. Having recruited some noted security pros, including former Apple “hacker princess” Kristin Paget, it has set up a vulnerability disclosure programme rewarding researchers for uncovering flaws. It’s similar to bug bounty programmes run by major software firms, like Facebook, Google and Microsoft. Evidently, the Rubicon has been crossed.Hacking the homeThe home is a viable target too, amusingly highlighted by the discovery of ahackable Japanese smart toiletlast year. More recently,IOActive detailed flaws in home automation kit made by Belkin, including switches to turn electrical devices on and off, which could have been used to cause real-world damage, possibly a fire.Those vulnerabilities were eventually addressed, but Ollmann says there are numerous flaws in connected home technologies from other manufacturers that will be disclosed in the near future.TVs that run Google’s Android operating system are vulnerable to many of the same attacks that affect smartphones. MWR Infosecurity, a consultancy, has tested out an Android exploit on a Kogan TV running Android.The attack took advantage of a documented weaknesses that allow hackers to use of a piece of code known as a JavaScriptInterface, included in ad libraries to let further actions be initiated on Android machines.In theory, anyone hacking a TV in this way could take photos, if the TV had a built-in camera, or create invasive applications to spy on viewers. That weakness has been found in numerous ad libraries used by many of the world’s top free apps.“It should affect any TV running Android and definitely if they’re running apps which use the flawed ad networks,” says David Chismon, researcher at MWR.Home routers are ridden with vulnerabilities too, asuncovered by digital security non-profit Team Cymru in March. It found a network of 300,000 home and office routers had been compromised, thanks to worrying weaknesses in the devices’ software, from predictable or non-existent passwords to flaws in the web applications used to control them.The hackers decided to use these security holes to redirect victims to whatever website they wanted when they started using the internet.Taking over industrial controlsConnected, and therefore hackable, devices can also be found in control systems running nations’ critical infrastructure. Researchers across the world have been panicking about supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, used to monitor and manage industrial machines, from nuclear power plants to oil and gas pipelines.SCADA machines produced by various manufacturers have been shown to contain various weaknesses, like those exploited by Stuxnet, the infamous malware that disrupted centrifuges at an Iranian nuclear plant. What’s worrying is that more vulnerabilities continue to emerge.In January, the US government’s Industrial Control Systems Cyber Emergency Response Team (ICS-CERT) issued a warning about a buffer overflow vulnerability, a type of weakness that allows an outside hacker to write code to a device and which has been largely eradicated from modern systems.The Guardian knows of one major security firm that is aware of a number of theoretical flaws, ones that could be used to play with the power controls on SCADA systems, but they do not currently have the right labs to test the potential for real-world impact.This is another key problem: the threat is poorly understood, with many apparent vulnerabilities that may or may not be exploited to endanger critical infrastructure. “We keep seeing small examples of attacks that may or may not be cyber attacks against SCADA systems, but it’s still a theoretical threat in terms of spectacular and long lived degradation of a specific service,” says Steve Santorelli, a researcher at Cymru.His outlook for the future of SCADA-like machines is not optimistic, though. “The internet is not secure frankly, in any way at all. That matters when it comes to control systems.”Could your internet fridge be vulnerable? Yes. Photograph: Martin Argles for the GuardianSend in the CavalrySantorelli has a similarly bleak prospectus for IoT in general. “Someone asked me recently: is my fridge going to DDoS me and, frankly the answer is, yes … probably,” he adds. “Anything with an IP address is a commodity in the underground economy, to be bought or bartered for if there is a way to make money from it.”u“The privacy and criminal implications are diverse and they need to be at the heart of the design of these new technologies. The bottom line is that we’ve never truly seen security be at the heart of a new technology and anything that connects to the internet will be inherently insecure by its very nature. The future is not looking bright.”Time to batten down the hatches and prepare for cybergeddon then? Perhaps not. Help is on the way, even if it’s not from government.A movement started by noted security professional Josh Corman has been gathering pace in recent months, since it was first conceived at last year’s DEFCON hacking convention. Its name isI Am The Cavalry. Its intention is to act as a hub for vulnerability research that affects four areas: medical devices, automobiles, home services and public infrastructure.The plan is to give altruistic researchers a place to share their findings in a pro bono fashion, in the hope that the weaknesses will be covered off by whatever manufacturers are affected. I Am The Cavalry will act as a hyperactive middleman, coordinating vulnerability disclosures and pushing for more than just quick fixes. It wants to encourage total cultural change to instil security across organisations’ processes.It’s an ambitious plan, born out of a sense of responsibility in a world ridden with hackable technologies. But will researchers really give away their secrets for free, especially the most technically gifted who can make millions by selling just a handful of the most serious flaws to nation states? Corman believes the ethical side of the hacking community will come out in force.“I’m not making an economic argument yet,” he says. “Our role and what sets us apart is that we’re speaking to those who have something in them ... that altruistic gene. We’re describing something that is a shared risk and a shared concern and if that appeals to someone, they should gravitate to us.”Praise for TeslaEven ahead of its formation as an official organisation (it is consulting with lawyers on whether to become an educational foundation or an industry association), I Am The Cavalry has already facilitated some vulnerability disclosures.Corman says the body has had successes in both the car and medical industries, but can’t disclose whom they involved. He has also been invited to consult with car manufacturers in the US and Europe, and is particularly impressed with the way in which Tesla has responded to the problems at hand.“We are very encouraged to see such a policy [at Tesla]. A fear we’ve had as a research community is that we would have a 10-15 year learning curve where this new industry was in the denial and lawsuit stage towards researchers,” says Corman.“If this is an indicator of how the rest of the automotive industry will respond in kind, this will dramatically accelerate the maturity and the engagement of white hat researchers who wish to help.”As a sign of his sway with mandarins walking the murky halls of power, Corman has already met with Senator Ed Markey of Massachusetts, who recently urged car makers to act on cyber security issues, and others on Capitol Hill to discuss the weaknesses that urgently need addressing.Despite limited “in the wild” attacks, Internet of Things threats are real. As connected devices proliferate, the hope is that they do so securely. If they volunteer for the Cavalry, that might just happen. Then we can go about our quotidian lives feeling a little less insecure.•Help! My fridge is full of spam and so is my router, set-top box and console
Ten years ago this week, well-known PC Gamer writer Kieron Gillen got home from the pub and decided he wanted to change games journalism forever. At 2.04am in the morning on March 23, he posted on to his website,The New Games Journalism manifesto, a heartfelt call for games writing to change, to become more subjective, and to convey the experience of actually being in a game world.The manifesto was much discussed and encouraged a new way of thinking about and even playing games. And Gillen is now a writer at Marvel, penning excellent runs of X-Men and Thor, before moving on to his superhero teen-angst masterwork, Young Avengers.So what happened to young Gillen on that fateful night at the Delfter Krug bar in Bath 10 years ago? Who was with him? And how did it shape his approach to writing over the next decade?To find out, we’ll be reuniting Kieron with the two journalists he was talking to that night at the pub, ex-PC Gamer colleague Tim Edwards and Jon Hicks, now editor of the Official Xbox Magazine. In conversation with the Guardian games editor, Keith Stuart (who was probably in the bar as well), the trio will attempt to recall the mood of that modest night down the boozer, as well as assessing the legacy of NGJ and the way writing about games has changed in the following decade.Afterwards, we’ll speak to the newly announced Kotaku UK editor, Keza MacDonald, and well-known games video maker Matt Lees about the current generation of games writers, journalists and YouTube stars.The event will take place at The Yorkshire Grey pub in London, on 26 March. Tickets are available for £5 (plus booking fee), which includes one free drink. The event is for over-18s only.Book your ticket here!
Flappy Bird is set to return to iPhone and Android app stores, its Vietnamese developer has confirmed.In response to requests for a download of the free game - which started a craze and generated around $50,000 a day in advertising revenue at its peak - Dong Nguyen tweeted that Flappy Birdwould be made available via the App Store“but not soon”.Flappy Bird will return.Flappy Bird was removed from Apple’s App Store for the iPhone as well as the Google Play store for Android in February after the Nguyen wasseemingly overwhelmed by the popularity of the game.Nintendo: it wasn’t us, honestNintendodenied allegations that a legal challengefrom the company, over artwork in Flappy Bird that resembled Nintendo’s Mario games, was responsible for the removal of the app from sale.The removal of Flappy Bird from saleprompted hundreds of clone appsto be released on the various app stores, as well as phones being offered forthousands of dollars on eBaywith their main selling point being pre-installed copies of the game.Nguyen hinted that Flappy Birdcould return to smartphonesin an interview with Rolling Stone magazine this month. The developer said that an updated version of the game, with a warning to take regular breaks, could be released after hereceived abuse and threatsover the removal.• Flappy Birdis not the new Angry Birds - it’s pure rage• Flappy Bird may rise again becausebrilliant mechanics made it fly
A former Microsoft employee has been arrested in Seattle, accused of leaking Windows 8 to a tech blogger.Alex Kibkalo, once a software architect for the Redmond, Washington-based company, sent the French blogger parts of Windows 8 code, as well as the kit required to activate the software, according to the charging papers. The blogger then posted screenshots of the unreleased software online.Although the blogger only posted screenshots of Windows 8 (which spread widely online), Kibkalo also stands accused of encouraging them to post the activation kit, a key part of Microsoft’s anti-piracy system.“I would leak enterprise today probably,” Kibkalo reportedly told the unnamed journalist.The blogger responded with: “Hmm… Are you sure you want to do that? Lol,” and warned Kibkalo that the leak would be “pretty illegal”.Kibkalo allegedly responded with “I know :)”The engineer was caught after the blogger emailed Microsoft to confirm the authenticity of the leaked Windows 8 code. Investigators at the firm then reportedly looked through the blogger’s hotmail account and instant messenger chats to identify the source of the leak, and found an email from Kibaklo.•Firefox on Windows 8 Metro never had had more than 1,000 daily users
Google’s Chromecast is a small dongle that plugs into a spare HDMI port on your TV to stream media from the internet to the living room screen using your smartphone, tablet or computer as a remote.The tiny stick requires a connection to your home Wi-Fi network, and is powered by USB like most smartphones and tablet computers. It promises to stream content like Netflix, YouTube and the BBC iPlayer straight from the internet using your Android, iPhone, iPad or computer as a remote.Chromecast, which looks like a chunky USB flash drive, is discreet and is designed to be plugged into the back of a TV and forgotten about. It comes with a USB power adapter, but can be powered directly by USB ports on most TVs, saving the need for yet another power plug.Chromecast plugs directly into the HDMI port on your TV powered by USB.Setting up the Chromecast is straightforward. An app called Chromecast is available for iOS or Android that connects to the streaming stick via Wi-Fi and allows you to configure the settings for your home Wi-Fi network.From there, the Chromecast automatically logs on to the internet via Wi-Fi and waits until you command it to do something with one of your other devices.Simple to useUnlike most other set top boxes or streaming devices, such as the Apple TV or Roku, Chromecast acts like a window through which you broadcast media. It is purely a receiver and has no real interface of its own to navigate around, solely reliant on the commands from your computer, smartphone or tablet.That lack of buttons or menus makes it dead simple to use. Find the content you want to watch, be it a Netflix, iPlayer or YouTube video, or some music from Google Play Music and hit the broadcast to Chromecast button.The Chromecast then connects directly to the source, be it Netflix or another, and streams the video or music from the internet allowing you to turn off your smartphone or use it for something else.Some apps, such as Plex, support streaming media from a network connected computer, while others allow users to stream media directly from a smartphone or tablet to the Chromecast.The Chromecast is about the size of a chunky USB flash drive.Netflix, YouTube, BBC iPlayer Google Play and RealPlayer CloudWhat the Chromecast does, it does very well. Streaming from Netflix or YouTube is easy and works great, and so does streaming music from Google Play music or other Chromecast-enabled apps like RealPlayer Cloud or Plex.However, what you can do with Chromecast is quite limited at the moment. Beyond Netflix, YouTube, BBC iPlayer and a small handful of apps like Real Player Cloud, your options are currently limited. There is no ITV player, 4oD or Amazon Prime Instant video streaming for instance, or any of the other catch up services right now.The Chromecast is capable of mirroring a Chrome browser window from a computer, however, which makes it possible to display video from unsupported services or anything else that can be viewed in Chrome on the TV.In practice, the video quality is low and the display can lag and skip frames, so it is not a real alternative to a dedicated streaming app for things like 4oD.PriceAt £30, the Chromecast is currently one of the cheapest streaming options - beaten only by the £10 Now TV box, which lacks Netflix or Amazon or many of the other services.It significantly undercuts the competition from the likes ofRoku’s £50 Streaming Stickor Apple’s £99 Apple TV.VerdictThe Chromecast does what it claims to do very well and makes streaming video from Netflix and YouTube very easy indeed using a smartphone, tablet or computer as a wireless remote.The problem is that Chromecast doesn’t do a lot more than that. It lacks a lot of the streaming services that competitors offer, but it promises to do a lot more in the future with rapid automatic updates in the background.Chromecast is certainly an experiment for Google, and has the potential to be a one-stop streaming shop controlled easily from the sofa via a myriad of devices.One £30 stick can turn any “dumb” television into an open smart TV in minutes, and offers developers a chance to innovate through apps that other smart TV platforms hamper with long and rigorous approval processes.The appeal of the Chromecast, then, is the promise of what it could do in the future, not what it can do right now. Whether that is enough to justify its £30 price tag is debatable. It is certainly an interesting gadget to watch, if not necessarily buy right now.Star rating: 3/5Pros:Easy setup, great streaming quality, tiny, discreet, cheapCons:Not many streaming services, doesn’t do a lot right now
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTwitter hints that @-replies and hashtags are about to be streamlined &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedWhat will Twitter look like in a year? Two years? A lot less like itself.At least that's the impression Vivian Schiller, head of news at Twitter, gave addressing the crowd two days ago at the Newspaper Association of America's mediaXchange conference in Denver. During her talk, Schiller called at-replies and hashtags "arcane" and hinted that Twitter might soon move them into the background of the service."Streamlined" isn't the same as "phased out". But to the average person, the grammar of Twitter is arcane.Kickstarter, Neil Young, Veronica Mars: How hard-core fans drive the entertainment business &gt;&gt; SlateJon Nathanson:crowdfunding isn't catering to the mainstream crowd. When 3 million of us pledged $480 million to Kickstarter projects in 2013, we didn't establish any new industries or shake up any old ones. Instead, we identified ourselves as the early adopters: the hardcores, the überfans. We're the kind of people who, in absence of Kickstarter, would have bought the special edition of a Veronica Mars DVD or paid extra for better seats at a Neil Young concert. We're the kind of people who download all the value-added content in our favorite video games. When something's labeled "collectible," we're the ones collecting it.US digital video benchmark, Q4 2013 &gt;&gt; Adobe SystemsNote that this is a PDF. Data points:• Smartphones overtook tablets for online video streaming in December 2012, and usage is up 86% year-over-year.• The introduction of Xbox One and PS4 have streaming from gaming consoles on the rise, up 365% year-over-year.&gt;br /&gt;• Sports video streaming is up 640% year-over-year.• Over one fourth of video streams on large annual and bi-annual sporting events come from mobile devices.Mobile is really taking off for online viewing from web sites (which is what this measures). The comparative amounts for (Windows) PCs and Macs is surprising, as is that for Android v PC.Huawei backtracks, won't release a dual-OS Android, Windows Phone smartphone &gt;&gt; FierceWirelessHuawei said it has no plans to release a dual-OS smartphone running Microsoft's Windows Phone and Google's Android, contradicting earlier statements from a Huawei executive."Huawei Consumer Business Group adopts an open approach towards mobile operating systems to provide a range of choices for consumers," the company said in a statement to FierceWireless. "However, most of our products are based on Android OS, [and] at this stage there are no plans to launch a dual-OS smartphone in the near future."No Acer dual-boot PC, no Huawei dual-boot phone. Any others? (And a dual-boot phone made even less sense than a dual-boot PC.)Why should I care about wearables? &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsBen Bajarin:I'm as early an adopter as they come. I have about every health and fitness wearable on the market. However, if you ran into me on the street today I wouldn't have a single one on me. Why? I simply don't find them valuable. The question I keep circling back to is, "Why I should care about these products?" When I first started using them it was novel to see how many steps I had taken or how much sleep I had the night before. But after a few days the novelty wore off. The data was simply not useful or actionable. There was no value in the data.This is Healthbook, Apple's major first step into health &amp; fitness tracking &gt;&gt; 9to5MacMark Gurman:Healthbook's user interface is largely inspired by the iPhone's existing Passbook application. Versions of Healthbook in testing are capable of tracking several different health and fitness data points.Each category of functionality is a card in the Healthbook. Cards are distinguished by a colour, and the tabs can be arranged to fit user preferences. As can be seen in the above images, Healthbook has sections that can track data pertaining to bloodwork, heart rate, hydration, blood pressure, physical activity, nutrition, blood sugar, sleep, respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, and weight.Hard to see that this would be the full usefulness of a wearable Apple thingamajig, because those are directly useful for comparatively few people.Bad batteries, free of charge &gt;&gt; OnespacemediaThomas Rumbold:I need to know why battery life on a mobile device that fundamentally needs to power itself isn't a priority. I need to know why I can't use my phone for one day without it turning into an expensive paperweight. I actually own a Nexus 4, which I think is an excellent phone - but the battery life is terrible. And let's be absolutely clear - this is not an isolated case. You know what else the battery life is awful on? Every model of iPhone. All of the Samsung S series. The recent HTC devices. BlackBerry devices are marginally better (and come with the rather brilliant facility of using removable batteries - so you can keep a couple spare and just swap them out when they die), but their situation is sort of complex and expensive at the moment. Do you know what the battery life was amazing on? My 2001 era Nokia 5110. Eleven days of battery life.And yes, he is aware that the modern smartphone can do more than that Nokia.This is BlackBerry's unreleased 'Cyclone' streaming box &gt;&gt; EngadgetIn 2011, BlackBerry was rumoured to be developing a media box to compete against the likes of Roku and Apple TV. While that device never made it to market, it looks like the company did manufacture some units, as proven by pictures posted on theCrackBerry forums. These photos were taken by user "isaac708," who claims he got 10 BlackBerry Cyclones (the device's code name) inside a box full of server stuff from a RIM liquidator.If only BlackBerry had gone ahead with this, it could have... lost a pile more money.Inside DuckDuckGo, Google's tiniest, fiercest competitor &gt;&gt;Co.LabsJohn Paul Titlow:Stepping inside DuckDuckGo's headquarters in Paoli, Pennsylvania, it's hard to imagine that its two modest, sparsely occupied floors could be used to launch an insurgency against one of the biggest tech companies on the planet.But they are--sort of. Most of DuckDuckGo's 20 or so employees work remotely. Doug Brown, a front-end dev specialist, lives in Toronto, making the trip to the small Philadelphia suburb periodically. The company's newest hire, a developer named Jag Talon, started working for the company from the Philippines before his family relocated to New Jersey last year. When we visited their office in January, fewer than a dozen people roamed the halls. This, we were told, was more than usual.DuckDuckGo is still microscopic in comparison to Google, but the part on how it manages remote working is illuminating.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Google faces a lawsuit in California over whether bulk scanning of emails to deliver advertisements breaches state and federal wiretap laws.In its filings for the lawsuit, the company has also admitted scanning the contents of emails sent and received by American students who attend schools which use the company’s Apps for Education suite. ButAmerica’s Education Week magazine saysthat that raises new questions about the compatibility between US child-protection laws and “big data”.The nine plaintiffs accuse Google of breaching wiretap laws, and hope to start a collective “class action” suit to gain financial compensation for Gmail users, as well as to force the company to be more open about its policies.Only two of the plaintiffs are students, one at the University of Hawaii and one at the University of the Pacific, in California. But their cases raise the thorniest questions for the company.The company “scans and indexes” the email of any student using its tools for education, even if those schools have turned off the ability to display adverts. The scanning lets the company provide features such as spell check, virus and spam protection, as well as functionality including its “Priority Inbox” feature. It cannot be turned off.Such a practice could be in violation of an American law called Ferpa, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, which is the main law guarding student educational records.Last updated in 2001, the legislation wasn’t written in an age of cloud computing, and it is possible it conflicts heavily with Google’s attempts to expand into education.“More than 30 million students, teachers and administrators rely on Google Apps for Education every day to communicate and collaborate more efficiently,” says Bram Bout, the head of Google Apps for Education. “We are committed to protecting the privacy and security of our users — and that includes students — to make sure their information is safe, secure and always available to them. Ads in Gmail are turned off by default for Google Apps for Education and we have no plans to change this in the future.”As part of the Californian lawsuit, Google argues that the two student plaintiffs consented to their emails being scanned when they first logged in. But, writes the social media lawyer Bradley S Shear, “since Google provides this same exact service for free to thousands of schools across the country it raises a serious question of whether Google is data mining the school emails of millions of students across the country for financial gain.”Shear continues: “It does not appear that students, parents, and/or teachers have been informed and provided consent that would enable their digital interactions and the content sent and received on school contracted Gmail services to be utilised for advertising purposes.”But others aren’t so concerned. Joel R Reidenberg, a law professor at Fordham University,told Education Weekthat the interpretation of Ferpa is “an open question, in part because the 40-year-old Ferpa does not adequately define what constitutes an educational record in an era in which a previously unthinkable amount of digital data about students proliferates.”At stake is entry into the valuable education tech market,estimated to be worth $8bn by the SIIA(Software and Information Industry Association). Microsoft in particular stands to lose if Google services or its Chromebooks make significant inroads into the US educational market.• Google:don’t expect privacywhen sending to Gmail
The Xbox 360 version of sci-fi shooter Titanfall has been delayed, publisher Electronic Arts has said. Originally due for release at the same time as the PC and Xbox One versions, which shipped on 11 March in Europe, the game will now arrive on the older console on 8 April in North America and 11 April in Europe.In a statement released yesterday, Patrick Soderlund, executive vice president of EA studios, said, “I want to update everyone on Titanfall for Xbox 360 in development with Bluepoint Games. I’ve been playing the game a lot, and it is fantastic.”“But we see a few things that can be made even better, so we’re giving Bluepoint a little more time to do just that and deliver an epic Titanfall experience for Xbox 360 players. The game will feature the same 6v6 gameplay, maps, modes, weapons and Burn Cards as the Xbox One and PC versions of the game.”Respawn Entertainment, the creator of the game and developer of the PC and Xbox One versions has had little to do with this conversion. Instead, it has been handled by Bluepoint Games, a studio that has so far specialised in handling HD remakes of classic PlayStation 2 titles.Earlier in March, news siteEurogamer spoke to Respawn engineer Richard Bakerwho said of the Xbox 360 iteration, “It seems pretty close [in terms of] feature parity and they’re still working on getting the frame-rate up. I’m not sure about the resolution...”Games publishers are currently aiming to release most of their big titles as cross-generational projects, supporting both legacy machines and newcomers Xbox One and PlayStation 4. However differences in technical capabilities are likely to make this challenging as developers continue to push the new, more powerful hardware.•Titanfall review – futuristic, fantastic, but not revolutionary• Titanfall – 10 tips for novice pilots
A £42m Alan Turing Institute is to be founded to ensure that Britain leads the way in big data and algorithm research, George Osborne announced.Drawing on the name of the famous British mathematician who led codebreaking work during the second world war at Bletchley Park, the institute is intended to help British companies by bringing together expertise and experience in tackling problems requiring huge computational power.The tender to house the institute will be produced this year. It may be a brand-new facility or use existing space in a university, a Treasury spokesman said. Its funding will come from the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, and its chief will report to the science minister, David Willetts. No staffing numbers or chief executive have been announced."The intention is for the work to benefit British companies to have an advantage in big data," the spokesman said.Turing was a pivotal figure in mathematics and computing. His codebreaking work led to the cracking of the German "Enigma" codes, which used highly complex encryption, using an electromechanical system. He later formed a number of theories that underpin modern computing, and formalised the idea of algorithms – sequences of instructions – for a computer.His codebreaking work is reckoned to have saved hundreds or even thousands of lives.Osborne's announcement marks further official rehabilitation of a scientist who many see as having been treated badly by the British government after his work during the war. Turing, who was gay, was convicted of indecency in March 1952, and lost his security clearance with GCHQ, the successor to Bletchley Park. He killed himself in June 1954. But he was onlygiven an official pardon by the UK government in December 2013after a series of public campaigns.Turing's fame has long been recognised among computer scientists and mathematicians. There is already a Turing Institute at Glasgow University, and an Alan Turing Institutein the Netherlands, as well as an Alan Turing building at the Manchester Institute for Mathematical Sciences.
While Sony was showing off its headline-grabbing virtual reality headset at the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco on Tuesday, Microsoft was a few hundred feet away, making a little announcement of its own. The company has revealed that 25 indie titles are lined up for release on Xbox One, courtesy of the Id@Xbox programme.Among the games are several well-known projects from highly respected developers. Toronoto-based studio Capybara is bringing acrossSuper Time Force, its innovative time-twisting platformer originally cited for Xbox 360, while Q.U.B.E. Director’s Cut from Toxic Games updates the award-winning first-person PC puzzler. Elsewhere 1001 Spikes is a hardcore side-scroller fromNicalis, perhaps best known for collaborating on cult hit, VVVVVV, and CastleStorm from Zen Studios is a mash-up of Tower Defense title and physics destruction sim. The beautiful Zelda tributeHyper Light Drifter, previously earmarked for PS4 and Vita, is also coming across.“Since we first announced the program in August, we’ve been working closely with developers to bring a diverse array of independent games to Xbox One,” said ID@Xbox games director, Chris Charla. “Our goal is to make the process as easy as possible so developers can focus on what matters most: creating the games you’re beginning to see today.”Two of the 25 titles have been designed specifically to explore the capabilities of the Xbox One hardware. It Draws a Red Box by Other Ocean is a social eight-player Bomberman tribute, and FRU by Through Games is a Kinect-based puzzler.Microsoft was originally criticised fordisallowing self-publishing on Xbox Onewhich appeared to put the platform out of reach for many small studios without publishers. However, the companylater announced that self-publishing would be supportedand that every consumer Xbox One unit would be able to function as a development machine.“Our goal has always been to make Xbox One the best place to play games, and that means having a diverse portfolio for gamers to choose from,” said Phil Spencer, corporate vice president of Microsoft Studios. “We’ve worked closely with independent developers to bring their own brand of creativity and innovation to the platform and today is just the beginning.”However, Sony has also been courting the indie sector, securing exclusives such as The Witness and featuring smaller studios heavily in its press conferences at E3 and Gamescom. The company’s decision to unveil its virtual reality hardware at GDC rather than a major marketing event like E3 has been seen as an attempt to accentuate its close relationship with the development community.Whatever the case, the console manufacturers have learned from crossover hits like Minecraft and Hotline Miami that offbeat, often surreal, titles have a large fanbase online. Digital games services like Steam and Xbox Live Arcade have made idiosyncratic titles available to a global audience, and the scene is flourishing. Furthermore, cult studios like Vlambeer and Mojang have large communities that console makers hope can be mobilised toward their hardware. In the battle for influence and kudos, securing a range of indie hits is becoming as important as the multimillion dollar deals to grab Triple A blockbusters.The other titles announced so far are Calibre 10 Racing Series by Bongfish GmbH, Chariot by Frima, Chuck’s Challenge 3D by Niffler, Contrast by Compulsion Games, Divekick Addition Edition + by Iron Galaxy Studios, Forced by BetaDwarf ApS, Guacamelee Super Turbo Championship Edition by DrinkBox Studios and Gunscape by Blowfish Studios.There are as yet no firm release details, although it’s likely some of these titles will be available via the Xbox One version of Microsoft’s Games With Gold feature, which – like PlayStation Plus – will provide free titles to subscribers when launched.
Lawyers for hacker Andrew "Weev" Auernheimer, who is serving a 41-month prison sentence, will appear in a US court on Wednesday to try to overturn a conviction they say has serious repercussions for internet freedom.Auernheimer, a self-confessed internet troll and hacker, was found guilty in November 2012 of identity theft and conspiracy to gain unauthorised access to AT&amp;T public servers, after he obtained thousands of email addresses of iPad owners. He shared his findings with Gawker, which published them in redacted form. He was charged with a felony under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA), a law that came under fire as outdated and too general when it was used to prosecute the late internet activist Aaron Swartz.Lawyers for Auernheimer say his conviction is  flawed and raises important questions for civil liberties online.On Wednesday, at the 3rd circuit court of appeals in Philadelphia, lawyers will argue that Auernheimer's actions do not constitute a misdemeanour, let alone a felony. They will say that Auernheimer did not violate the CFAA because he simply accessed a public server, something that does not constitute "unauthorised access", which is what the law criminalises. Neither, they say, does it constitute a crime under the identity theft statute.The government argues that his actions were without authorisation under the CFAA because AT&amp;T did not want them to have the addresses, despite them being available on its public website."The fundamental question in this case is whether it is a crime to visit a public website," the lawyers wrote in their legal brief. "By posting information on the public web without a password requirement, AT&amp;T made the information available to everyone."Auernheimer's legal team includes Orin Kerr, a former prosecutor and law professor at George Washington University Law School and lawyer for theElectronic Frontier Foundation (EFF),a digital rights organisation.Hanni Fakhoury, staff attorney at the EFF, said Auernheimer's case was an example of a prosecution aimed at a person, not a crime: "One of the big problems of this case has always been that Auernheimer can be unsympathetic. The thing is, when you couple a very bad law [the CFAA] with the prosecutor having brought the decision being able to go after who they like, or who they don't like, that's a problem," he said.Because the CFAA makes it a crime to obtain information from a computer "without authorisation", a term that has not been defined in the law, the conviction sets a dangerous precedent, Fakhoury said.He cited the case of Isaac Wolf, a journalist at Scripps Howard News Service, who was threatened with legal action under the CFAA last year. Wolf was researching a story on TerraCom, a company that provides federally subsidised phone services to those on low incomes and came across social security numbers and other sensitive records while doing a basic google search. But when he revealed that TerraCom and an affiliate YourTel America, had left thousands of customers at risk of identity theft, the companies claimed the reporters were hacking and threatened to sue.Auernheimer's appeal will be closely watched by security researchers and privacy experts who say that the conviction, if not overturned, will have a detrimental effect on security. They say the information Auernheimer helped to access was made available by AT&amp;T to the entire internet and access occurred through standard protocols used by every web user.Computer scientists, security researchers and internet freedom advocates have filed amicus brief, asking the appeals court to overturn his conviction. They include the Mozilla Foundation, which makes the web browser Firefox. In their brief, they argue there are "striking similarities" between research tools used by experts to benefit privacy and security and those employed by Auernheimer, and that they have a vital interest in arguing why individuals must be deemed authorised under the CFAA when they access unsecured data on websites.Auernheimer's conviction raises other legal issues, in addition to questions of whether it was a crime, his lawyers say. In papers submitted to the court, they argue that the case was improperly brought in New Jersey, because no computer was accessed nor information obtained in New Jersey and that the largest part of his sentence, due to an alleged $73,000 loss to AT&amp;T, was wrong because the losses were nothing to do with computer costs, but were the result of mail sent out to the company's customers.Auernheimer, who is  serving his sentence at Allenwood Federal Correctional Complex in White Deer, Pennsylvania, has not been given permission to attend the hearing.
The Danish national bank has released a briefing note firmly declaring bitcoin to not be money, noting that the currency is more like “glass beads”.“Bitcoins are not money in a proper sense as there is no issuer behind them,”the report states. “Instead, bitcoins display the characteristics of a commodity to which users attach value. Unlike precious metals such as gold and silver, bitcoins have no actual utility value, bearing closer resemblance to glass beads.”Denmark’s national bank is just the latest central bank to inveigh against bitcoin. In January, Malaysia’s central bank warned citizens that “the Bitcoin is not recognised as legal tender in Malaysia… the public is therefore advised to be cautious of the risks.” In December 2013, the People’s Bank of Chinabanned the country’s financial institutions from trading in the currency, shortly after the former president of the Dutch Central Banksaid the currency’s boomwas “worse than the tulip mania”.But the phrasing of Denmark’s intervention has raised eyebrows itself. In ascribing “actual utility value” to precious metals such as gold and silver, the bank seems to fly in the face of conventional economic reasoning. While gold and silver do have uses, in areas such as electronics and jewellery, the vast majority of their value is, just like bitcoin, maintained through little more than collective agreement.“Bitcoin is a virtual currency without any value anchor and hence it may rise sharply or fall very suddenly. A core property of money is that its value is stable so that its purchasing power does not change markedly from day to day,” argued Hugo Frey Jensen, the governor of the central bank.“In spite of the considerable focus, use of bitcoins as a means of payment remains very limited,” Jensen continued. “Against that background, the risks linked to their use are currently assessed to be limited to the individual user.”The Danish bank’s warning also comes three months after a European Banking Authority warning on cryptocurrencies which stated that “you need to be aware of the risks associated with virtual currencies.” The warning fell short of regulating bitcoin, but suggested that authority is looking into the possibility.
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski, we hear from former hacktivist andLulzSecmemberJake Davis.Davis, known online as Topiary, spent 21 months on remand and 36 days in Feltham young offenders institution after being found guilty of computer crimes in April 2013.Since then he has been slowly rebuilding his life. In this extended interview withCharles Arthur, he discusses his dramatic arrest and journey through the legal system. Finally Davis talks about his insights into the prison system for young men and how he has drawn positives from this difficult start to his adult life.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChina clocks a record 100m smartphone shipments in Q4 2013 &gt;&gt; Counterpoint Technology Market ResearchAs well as being a bigger market than North America and Europe combined:• China accounts for one in three smartphones shipped globally• China smartphone penetration of total mobile phone shipped in 2013 stands at a surprising 88%. Feature Phones are dead in China• Chinese OEMs enjoy a combined 70% of the total smartphone market share. A tough market for international brands as smartphone channel now tightly controlled by operatorsStronger international brands such as Samsung &amp; Apple together control a combined 26% of the rest of the 30% marketAlso: AOSP (and a few percent of Google Android) make up 91% of total shipments there in 2013.Skype 4.7 for Android: your battery is breathing a sigh of relief &gt;&gt; Skype BlogsWith Skype 4.7 for Android, we are introducing aggressive battery savings that will allow most of our users to leave Skype running without noticeably affecting battery life. It has been a challenging process, because to do this we've had to transform to the way Skype technology works. Actually we're still undergoing that transformation – the process is not yet complete. But we are now at a stage where you can enjoy the fruits of our labour.Battery demand cut by 75%, apparently.EU unlikely to revisit Google deal, antitrust chief says &gt;&gt; WSJ.comEuropean Union antitrust authorities are unlikely to revisit a controversial deal with Google aimed at addressing concerns that the company was abusing its dominance of online searches, the bloc's antitrust chief said Tuesday.The European Commission, which acts as the bloc's competition watchdog, announced a settlement with the search engine last month aimed at drawing a line under the long-running case. But the settlement has come under fire on multiple fronts, from Google's competitors as well as politicians."I can't rule out that some of their arguments will make us change our position," EU antitrust chief Joaquín Almunia said in testimony to a European Parliament committee.Confessions of an ex-tech journalist &gt;&gt; MediumBekah Grant worked at Venturebeat, where she wrote nearly 1,740 articles in 20 months (an average of five per day):Busy days were a blur of furious typing, rushed calls, and ignoring everything that wasn't news (like food and water). There would be days with 20 funding announcements, on top of everything else we covered. VB writers could have a post up in 15 minutes if the situation demanded. Online publishing is a horse race and speed is critical.When a story breaks, you could take a couple hours to do research, call to sources, and write a contextualized, edited piece — but by that time, 5 of your competitors will have posted on the story. You will look slow and readers will have moved onto the next thing. The reality is that original reporting and careful editing fall by the wayside in the desire to be fast.Worth reading in full at your leisure.Bristol man gets revenge by texting works of Shakespeare to rogue internet seller &gt;&gt; Bristol PostEdd Joseph, 24, who lives in the city with his girlfriend, was furious when he bought a PS3 games console for £80 and the seller failed to deliver the goods.So Edd decided to take his revenge by sending him the entire works of the Bard - by text.Edd discovered he could copy the words from the internet and paste them into a text message - without costing him a penny on his unlimited mobile phone package.He sends it as one text but his victim can only receive them in 160 character chunks - meaning the 37 works of Shakespeare will buzz through in 29,305 individual texts.Give me all your bitcoins &gt;&gt; The NibMugging gets a lot more complicated in the world of digital money.Startups with an Apple flavour &gt;&gt; FT.comTim Bradshaw looks at what ex-Apple staff are doing in Silicon Valley:[Mike] Matas says working at Facebook can be very different from Apple. Now it is a question of working with users who generate their own content, he says: "You have to design for other people's stuff." While Apple's teams were silo­ed and rarely met their counterparts in other departments, Facebook is much more collaborative. "A lot of stuff that Paper has developed has gone out into other parts of the company," he says.Nonetheless, Paper was developed in secrecy for more than a year before its surprise unveiling in January. That seems more like Apple's ap­proach than the internet companies'. Facebook and Google often post new services to the web to see how users res­pond, before improving them based on large-scale, real-world behaviour.Mr Grignon says Facebook's sometime motto of "move fast and break things" sits uncomfortably with many longstanding Apple employees. "It's a recklessness, in a way, of engineering. It works well for folks like Facebook but Apple engineers go­ing into companies like that can experience a certain level of frustration."Best wishes to Marc Whitten as he departs Xbox &gt;&gt; MicrosoftFollowing the launch of Xbox One, the most successful launch in Xbox history, and the recent launch of "Titanfall," the most anticipated game of this generation, the Xbox team is sad to share today that Marc Whitten, Chief Product Officer of Xbox, will be leaving the team to become Chief Product Officer of Sonos.Sonos is attracting notable executives - Patrick Spence (formerly UK MD for BlackBerry) and now Whitten.Curtain mesh effect on iOS &gt;&gt; VineYes, it's a Vine by Marcus Eckert, showing off his new framework Meek. Hard to decide whether it's "cool!" or "ewww!"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
While 1992’s film the Lawnmower Man popularised a vision of the future in which virtual reality dominated life, the high cost of components has made the technology prohibitively expensive to date. But on Tuesday Sony Computer Entertainment announced Project Morpheus, a virtual reality headset that works with the company’s PlayStation 4 video game console. The headset will fool its wearer into believing they have entered a simulated 3D world and, potentially, bring the science-fiction dreams of the 1990s to the consumer market.“Virtual reality is the next innovation from PlayStation that may well shape the future of video games,” said Shuhei Yoshida, the president of Sony Computer Entertainment Worldwide Studios at the 2014 Game Developers Conference in San Francisco. “VR has been the dream of many game creators ever since the first computer game. Many of us have dreamed about VR and what it could mean for the games that we create.”Yoshida explained the unique appeal of VR as the sense of being bodily present in a simulated environment. “VR goes one step further than immersion to deliver ‘presence’,” he said. “This is something that can only be realised by VR.”Richard Marks, one of Project Morpheus’s creators, described his own experience with the technology, saying: “When I first experienced presence it shifted my scepticism into complete belief.”Project Morpheus has been in development for the past three years and is still in prototype form. Sony made no mention of a launch date or price point and, as such, the product is unlikely to be the first to market. Oculus Rift, first announced in 2012 and slated for release later this year is a PC-compatible VR technology.Invented by 21-year-old Palmer Luckey, Oculus VR has raised $75m in venture funding in the past 12 months and has generated a groundswell of interest in the technology. Yoshida even paid tribute to Oculus Rift in his presentation. “I have an enormous amount of respect for them,” he said. “We were inspired in our work by the enthusiastic reactions of developers and journalists who tried their prototypes.”Marks explained that VR’s influence and application will soon extend far beyond the video game industry. “Allowing people to experience what it’s like to be somewhere else will impact many aspects of life,” he said, explaining how Sony is working with Nasa to allow users to experience what it’s like to stand on Mars by using real image data gathered from the Mars Rover. “VR is going to be pervasive,” said Marks. “It could even be used to pick out a hotel room for your next trip by visiting a virtual version of that room.”
The Olympia centre in west London is better known as the venue of the London International Horse Show, but the Wearable Technology Show, which began there on Tuesday, was so small it would have been crowded by the addition of a couple of Shetland ponies. Despite the interest in computing that you can wear, heightened by Google's publicity around its Glass headset, it's still early days for a technology sector that is forecast to boom; IHS iSuppli reckons that by 2016 we'll be buying 92.5m wearable devices.But what will they look like? Probably not today's clunky smartwatches or smartglasses, said Sonny Vu, chief executive and founder of Misfit Ventures. "To be really wearable, an object needs to either be beautiful or invisible." Misfit's Shine tracker is almost invisible, transmitting data to the owner's iPhone. Even so, Vu is not convinced it's quite perfect."At the moment none of the wearable systems passes the turn-around test – as in, if you were on the way to work and realised you'd left it behind, would you turn around to get it?" Vu said he wouldn't for a fitness tracker, but he does for his smartphone or spectacles.That doesn't mean, though, that there isn't plenty of potential interest. Virgin Atlantic is just completing a six-week trial of Google Glass, which shows details in a tiny screen above the right eye, paired with Sony smartwatches by staff for its Upper Class passengers arriving at Heathrow, who are welcomed by name and whose passport details can be checked directly from the devices. "There are still a lot of limitations – you can't use it outside [in the rain] because it isn't ruggedised," said Kevin O'Sullivan, lead engineer of SITA Labs, which created the trial. "But passengers don't seem to mind it. Once they've asked whether it's taking pictures of them or using facial recognition, they often ask to have their picture taken wearing them."Google Glass-alikes are proliferating. Liat Rostock, marketing director for Israel-based eyeSight Technologies, opened a case that seemed designed to ship bullion but which instead held a prototype of "smart glasses" made by Lumux. They put a virtual screen in front of your right eye, with tweets, emails and potentially extra information about the scene you're seeing overlaid on them. You control what's shown using gestures – though when she demonstrated it she did look a little like someone swatting flies.However Vu thinks that Google Glass will mostly be used by businesses for specialist uses. "I don't think hundreds of millions of ordinary people will be wearing them next year," he said. Google though is clearly convinced: on Tuesday itannounced "Android Wear", free software to power smart watches, following on from the Android software that powers a multitude of smartphones around the world. There aren't many smart watches yet that can use it - in fact, the most successful smart watch so far, the Pebble, uses its own software - but Google's presence signals the intention, and the possibility.Virgin Atlantic hasn't decided whether to continue using Glass, but the idea of wearable technology seems inescapable as smartphones proliferate, says Ruth Thomson, campaign manager for consumer product development at Cambridge Consultants, which provides design and technology expertise to outside companies."If you listen to people talk here, it's all about using smartphones as hubs for wearable trackers - everybody's obsessed with smartphones," Thomson says. "It's because it's a convenient hub to send data to, and means that the cost of entry for the devices themselves is low."But at Cambridge Consultants she is now seeing a growing number of companies which want to incorporate wearable elements. She is already working with Adidas on sports shoes that measure what you've done; sports science has enthusiastically embraced wearable systems which relay heartbeat, oxygen levels (from the colour of blood vessels) and distance to a data store."People are a bit hung up on the smartphone," Thomson says. "It would be more exciting if your smartwatch became the hub. You aren't going to take your smarphone on a run, or on a football pitch."The elephant in the exhibition room, as at many technology shows, is Apple. It hasn't announced anything, but has trademarked the name "iWatch" in Europe and Japan, and had meetings in the US with the Food and Drugs Administration - driving the expectation that it will enter the wearables market too.If it does, will that help or hinder rivals? Vu thinks it will validate the work others have been doing, but warns that "not everybody is going to wear a smartwatch". And Simon Tian of Neptune Computer, which raised $800,000 on Kickstarter to build an Android smartwatch which will make phone calls, read emails and surf the web, says: "Apple isn't a friend or foe."Steven Holmes, general manager of chipmaker Intel's Smart Device Innovation, says: "Having Apple jump in would have a big effect. It wouldn't surprise me at all if they come out with a product – and hopefully it would solve a lot of the problems out there."
Google takes another step into Britain's living rooms on Wednesday with the introduction of its £30 Chromecast product, which claims to make televisions smarter by allowing users to stream online content including shows from YouTube, Netflix and the BBC's iPlayer.Chromecast is a direct rival to Apple's £99 TV product, which lets users stream from their iPhone, iPad or iPod to their TV. Google's version resembles a large USB flash drive but with an HDMI connector, and will be available to buy in the UK for £30 from Currys, PC World, Amazon and direct from Google. It has no remote, instead relying solely on a smartphone, tablet or computer for control."Chromecast is all about speed and simplicity," said Suveer Kothari, the British director of global business development for the Chromecast at Google."It's about making it really quick and easy to access the content you want on the big screen. Chromecast is really driven by second screen devices like mobile phones and tablets, which consumers are already comfortable with, and allow you to do things that would not be possible with a regular remote."Chromecast is Google's latest play to grab a chunk of the lucrative £100bn television market in which Apple and others have found it hard to gain a foothold. TV has been an established market for the last 60 years, dominated by television manufacturers, TV channels and pay TV services like Sky and Virgin Media in the UK, who will not relinquish control lightly."Chromecast is particularly interesting," said Anthony Rose, co-founder of second screen app Zeebox and former head of the BBC's iPlayer. "For £30 it will turn any 'dumb' TV into the latest open 'smart' TV, and has the potential to put 100,000s of apps from Android onto the TV via the smartphone or tablet."According to Rose, Chromecast offers a much more open platform than existing internet-connected TVs because it will be fuelled by the Android app store, making it a much more tempting proposition for app developers."You can bet that there are tens of thousands of app developers busy enhancing their apps for Chromecast, which is a thousand times more than any other smart TV platform. Apps are where the next innovations will come from," said Rose.Tom Morrod, senior director of consumer electronics at research firm IHS, is slightly less enthusiastic about the Chromecast's prospects in the UK. "Devices like this that plug into the TV to stream video or other media, including the Apple TV and Roku, typically don't fly off the shelves," he said.The Chromecast is latest of several attempts by Google to break into the TV market. It will compete with a host of set top box rivals from Apple, Roku and Sky's Now TV box, which costs £9.99. "As of February this year, around 6% of British households have a Digital Media Adapter (a streaming box or dongle), compared with 26% smart TV penetration and a quarter of homes having a Blu-ray player or games console," explained Morrod.He added that technology firms are working hard to develop compelling streaming products for TV, rather than replicating an app experience that does not translate to a larger screen. Google will hope that the Chromecast shifts the emphasis from the TV to the mobile device in hand, which could make for a much more compelling and easy to use experience.Already launched in the US, Google sold over 1m Chromecasts in 2013, which is approximately 20% of the number of Apple TV's sold since the introduction of Chromecast in July last year, according to data fromIHS.
As the custodian of the personal data of thousands of students, Ucas takes its data protection responsibilities extremely seriously. We never sell, or disclose, or give access to, the personal data of our applicants for commercial advertising and marketing purposes (Report, 13 March). Our commercial revenue is generated through email campaigns (sent by us), advertising on our websites, running conferences and conventions, and providing analytical services. Our biggest client group by far is universities and colleges. I am intensely proud that we manage a highly regarded national service without any recourse to the taxpayer. We do this by running an efficient operation and by treading a scrupulously careful line in generating additional revenue via our commercial subsidiary, Ucas Media. We operate wholly within the guidelines of the Data Protection Act and all relevant legislation, and apply our own criteria and restrictions to ensure that any commercial messages are suitable for the intended audience. Applicants can opt out of receiving our services at any time and, if they do, will still receive all the information they need to participate fully in the admissions service.Mary Curnock CookChief executive,Ucas
Music subscription services including Spotify and Deezer have broken through the $1bn (£600m) sales barrier worldwide as increasing numbers of fans choose to pay for music online.Streaming and subscription revenues rose by more than 50% over the past year to reach $1.1bn, helping overall sales of recorded music in Europe grow for the first time in 12 years, according to figures published yesterday.There are now an estimated 450 music rental services around the world, and while many people still listen for free, a desire for more choice is persuading more music lovers to part with their cash. In a three-year period the number of paying subscribers rose from 8 million to 28 million, according to the2014 digital music report from the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI).Easily accessible from smartphones and tablets, subscription services are popular with people looking to try out new music without committing to buying a download or a physical CD. Consumers say they are attracted by a cheap, user friendly and legal alternative to pirated downloads. "It is now clear that music streaming and subscription is a mainstream model for our business," said IFPI chief executive Frances Moore.The IFPI also said that One Direction were the biggest selling artists last year, with 4m physical and digital sales for their Midnight Memories album. Katy Perry's Prism was the best selling album by a female artist, in sixth place behind Eminem, Justin Timberlake, Bruno Mars and Daft Punk.Consumer technology companies have been racing to join the music streaming trend, with Apple launching iTunes Radio and Google promoting its Play store, with smaller players like Beats Music, created by the team behind the Beats headphones brand, also joining the fray.There are signs that in Britain and America streaming may soon generate more revenue for the music industry than downloads from online stores such as Apple's iTunes. Subscription services now account for a third of all digital sales globally, with downloads making up the balance, but the IFPI data shows that the two formats are growing at different rates.In the US the number of people claiming to use subscription and streaming rose from 19% in 2012 to 23%, while the number downloading fell from 28% to 27%. In Britain downloaders remained static at exactly one third, while subscribers grew from 19% to 22%. In Sweden, France and Italy streaming is already more popular than downloading.Digital formats now account for 39% of all music sales, or nearly £5.9bn out of £15bn, and while sales of physical CDs and vinyl declined steeply in 2013, they still contribute just over half the industry's income. A recent crash in music sales in Japan, which accounts for one fifth of music industry sales and where physical formats remained popular for longer than elsewhere, meant sales across all formats globally fell 3.9%.However, vinyl continued to make a comeback. Sales increased by 32% in America and by 101% in the UK in 2013.
Google and Viacom settled a landmark copyright case Tuesday ending seven years of litigation that had deepened the split between Hollywood and Silicon Valley.The row over the posting of Viacom programmes on Google’s YouTube video service without permission sparked a wide debate over the limits of federal laws aimed at copyright theft versus the rights of people to find and share entertainment online.“This settlement reflects the growing collaborative dialogue between our two companies on important opportunities, and we look forward to working more closely together,” the companies said in a joint statement. Neither side disclosed terms but no money changed hands, according to one executive close to the matter.Viacom, home to MTV, South Park and Stephen Colbert, first filed a $1bn lawsuit against YouTube and others in 2007 claiming the Google unit had allowed the illegal broadcast of 79,000 copyrighted videos on its website.The hard fought case attracted the support of the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), the National Football League, the Screen Actors Guild, Garth Brook and Sting for Viacom; Google was backed by eBay, Facebook, Human Rights Watch and others.Both sides saw victories overturned on appeals during the case. In 2010 judge Louis Stanton ruled that YouTube did not have a case to answer because it was protected by the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) and had removed videos when notified.In 2012 the appeals court ruled that YouTube executives should answer charges that they knew users were posting Viacom’s copyrighted material. Last year Stanton handed Google a victory rejecting Viacom’s damages claims over YouTube’s alleged posting of clips from SpongeBob SquarePants, MTV’s 16 and Pregnant and other Viacom’s programmes. Viacom had been appealing that decision.The deal comes as Google has been striking content deals with major media companies as it grows Google Play, its rival to Apple’s iTunes. The settlement comes after much of the company’s issues with YouTube have been resolved and should make it far easier for the two companies to do deals in the future – a development that is especially advantageous given the similarity between Viacom and YouTube’s audiences.But media companies still had major issues with Google and other tech firms. “The industry is still not doing enough about search,” said one media executive who has been following the case. “Search for Indiana Jones download and the first results should be Amazon or iTunes but often as not they are for illegal sites, they could do a better job of that,” he said.The settlement comes a week after Congress started looking at the DMCA once more. First implemented in 1998, the act is now seen as being hopelessly out of date by many, especially in the technology community. But attempts to reform it have been stifled in Congress by the MPAA and others.Media companies including Warner have been sued for allegedly abusing DMCA takedown notices to harm businesses they believe are sharing copyrighted material.Last week’s hearing on the DMCA was the House judiciary committee’s eighth as it considers a possible revision that’s been dubbed“The Next Great Copyright Act.”
Google is officially interested in wearable computing. Aspromisedby Chrome chief Sundar Pichai at SXSW last week, it has released a software development kit (SDK) for Android Wear, an operating system intended to power smartwatches and other wearable objects.Motorolasays it will release a smartwatch powered by the software, the Moto 360, which it says will be on sale in summer 2014 – by which time it is expected to be owned by China’s Lenovo.Samsung is a partner for Google Wear, according to today’s announcement, but also has its own competing Tizen operating system. Tizen launched in February, and Samsung has just begun to promote the platform to developers.Analysts have already begun to speculate whether Android’s arrival on smart devices will lead to “fragmentation” issues like those which have affected smartphones.“All the devices will be different with varying screen sizes, hardware and sensors,” noted Richard Windsor, who runs the RadioFreeMobile consultancy. “I suspect most [hardware makers] will use their own code.”In ablogpost, Pichai saysthat Android Wear is “a project that extends Android to wearables”, beginning with the “most familiar”.He hints that the system will build on Google Now, the app which tracks users’ habits and presents relevant cards of information including weather, traffic and travel plans. It is also likely to provide a speech interface for searches, monitor health and fitness, and allow users to control other devices such as music players from the wrist.In the post, Pichai says “we’ve barely scratched the surface of what’s possible with mobile technology”, but that the advantage of wearables is that “they understand the context of the world around you, and you can interact with them simply and efficiently, with just a glance or a spoken word”.However Samsung also has designs on wearables which it is promoting through its Tizen software. At Mobile World Congress in Barcelona itshowed off two models of its Galaxy Gear 2 smartwatch, which unlike last year’s first version runs its own Tizen software, rather than Android.On Monday Samsunglaunched its own SDK for Tizen for the Gear smartwatches, pointing to partnerships with a number of providers for music, fitness, health tracking and email.The possibility of smartwatch systems seeing a split is already concerning analysts. “I hope Android Wear application development doesn’t multiply the fragmentation issues Google is already battling with Android,”commentedNeil Shah of Counterpoint Research.Windsornotedthat the move by Samsung “will make fragmentation much worse than it already is and I am far from convinced that this issue is something that Google can cope with. Android is not an ecosystem. Android is an operating system upon which one can build an ecosystem.”•Samsung Gear 2 beats Apple to fitness-tracking smartwatch
MtGox, the defunct bitcoin exchange, has re-opened the ability to login to its site, but only to the extent of letting users see the balance in their wallets.Since the site is openly insolvent, and reportedly holds 750,000 fewer bitcoins than it owes to customers, any balance displayed onscreen is unlikely to ever be returned to users.The company is clear that the service is only being provided “for the convenience of all users”. It also notes that “confirming the balance on this site does not constitute a filing of rehabilitation claims under the civil rehabilitation procedure”, the equivalent of bankruptcy in Japan, where Mt Gox is based.After staring longingly at the reminder that the bitcoins they once had are gone forever, former Mt Gox customers can join one of the many class-action lawsuits against the company. In the US, a lawsuit filed in February was recently amended to involve Mizuho Bank, the company’s Japanese bank, as well as the firm’s executives and its Japanese parent company Tibanne KK. MtGox is safe from such cases in America, where it has declared bankruptcy, but in Canada, the firm itself is the target of a lawsuit, along with Mark Karpeles and Jed McCaleb, its two major shareholders.•Bitcoin – a life in hacks
I once heard of a TV journalist who kept the names and addresses of his Syrian sources in a little black book, and all the video he shot of activists, complete with faces, on an open harddrive.He was detained by the secret police in Damascus, which was scary for him but worse for his contacts. In his easily accessible files, he had neatly identified, catalogued and given phone numbers for a significant band of people the regime was trying to catch for daring to protest.The journalist was freed, shaken but unharmed. The activists fared less well. Despite frantic efforts to warn each other and flee, some were caught and haven’t been heard from since.That all happened before the Snowden revelations. It’s a reminder that even if you’re unfazed by GCHQ and the NSA reading your less-than-riveting emails or tapping your boring phone conversations, issues of data security are often deadly serious.As a blogger who sometimes works in regions were information too often has a horrible life-and-death quality to it, how can I – how can we – live up to the responsibility to protect ourselves and other people? We can only do it by protecting the data we share and safeguarding our communications.We must not roll over so easilyIt’s often said that nothing online is private and as the Snowden files have shown, this may well be true. Nonetheless, we have a duty to not simply resign ourselves to that sorry state of affairs. We must not roll over so easily.Our responsibility is to do whatever we reasonably can to keep private and sensitive information exactly that - private.Which is why at the moment, the issue of secure communications has become a bit of a hobby of mine, even if it can seem schoolboyish at times. Or amateur James Bond, with a touch of tin-foil hat.It’s not just about wanting Yahoo and Google to stop profiling me via my email content. It’s not just about wanting my own government to stop archiving all my electronic transmissions. (Although that would be nice if you’re reading this, either as published or in the drafting stage on my email).The lesson from that true example in Damascus is that sometimes people need these tools to protect lives.Email was never meant to be anonymousLet’s start with email. Email was never really designed to be private and anonymous. When it was developed 40 years ago the main focus was to share research data from one computer to another.I doubt the words anonymity and security even crossed the minds of the geeks involved in its design.Email headers and routing protocols show you who’s sending and who’s receiving. That’s just how it works.I’m no expert in all of this and neither is 99% of the population. But many are now fed up of governments snooping and archiving, companies scraping data in order to profile its users so it can serve more effective adverts.I’m inherently and, I’m sure, rightly, suspicious of any app or platform that says it’s secure. I’d hate to recommend anything with a confidence I can’t back up with irrefutable evidence. And that evidence would have to come from the experts and obsessed people who have rolled up their sleeves and rummaged deep down and dirty in the hardware and software, picking it apart into digestible code and reassembling so they could totally understand how it ticks and how it talks.What about malware?A catch with that is, even if an app is declared safe by those qualified to do so, and the encryption algorithms have at least a few years’ head start, what if someone has inserted malware on to the hardware to log you keystrokes, or intercept your voice and camera data before it even hits the app?If I’d suggested that last year I’d really have been burnishing my paranoia credentials. Post-Snowden, and the revelations are still coming, all this is a very real proposition and perhaps even old news to some.Protecting against that is a tough call, short of setting up off-line “air-gap” computers in basements, as the Guardian has done.True opensource licensing is a crucial element here because it allows for real scrutiny. An increasing number opensource software solutions are gaining visibility. But we also need more open hardware if we are to really have confidence about securing our communications, short of that isolated laptop in a deep, dark basement.Nonetheless, there are more reasonable steps we can take to protect our data, and, in the case of the Syrianmukhabarat, to not merely do their spy work for them – however inadvertently.We can make accessing private data time consuming or irritating enough to make a difference. A few more hours for the secret police to get into that data, for example, might have helped one more Syrian activists escape unharmed.On a larger scale, if we care about the principle of privacy in our own societies, we have to make strong encryption normal practice, for everything. Not just a journalist and his Syria contacts, but you and your shopping list and everything in between.Protest and dissentSure, these steps may not stop the shadowy agencies that like to listen in from listening in, but at least they’ll start to realise that we don’t want them to and that, if the law won’t protect us from unwanted intrusion, that we will do what we can to protect ourselves. Consider encryption an act of protest and dissent, one that doesn’t even require you to stand at a barricade or get teargassed.The principle of privacy, if we want privacy, needs to be fought for at every level. It has become a terrible cliche to talk about George Orwell’s nightmare vision of 1984, but read the book again and be reminded of the horror it depicts. And then realise how short a step it is from the telescreen to your iPhone screen.If governments can peek through your webcam, so can the criminals. If governments can read your email, so can the criminals. Sometimes they’re the same thing.•Still confused about the Snowden revelations? Watch the NSA made simple
