Sex.com sold for $12 million in January, Blue.com for $500,000 and "even frequently misspelled names sell: Mortage.com went for $242,400 this month," according toUSA Today. It reports:Sales of 5,851 domain names generated $29 million in 2005, compared with the sale of 3,813 names for $15 million in 2004, says market researcher Zetetic. And the pace is quickening: In the first three months of this year, 1,949 names have generated $14.2 million, says Domain Name Journal magazine.The companies that make a living out of this kind of speculation are spending big bucks, too. "Publicly traded Marchex spent $164 million on more than 100,000 domain names, including destination.com and debts.com last year. It works with Yahoo to direct advertisers to specialized websites such as videocamera.com. Separately, Marchex has acquired 74,000 ZIP code domains, such as 90210.com," says the story.
To catch up with all the posts on the Technology blog over the past week, clickhere.Posts that attracted the most coments included Google's Big Brother network raises concern, Q&amp;A with Woz, and, of course, the introduction of comment registration.
Almost three-quarters of online crime fighters around the world believe current legislation is inadequate and unenforceable. A survey conducted among those attending a recent e-crime congress in London showed that 74% of those involved in fighting internet crime thought stronger laws were necessary.The government has unveiled plans to double the maximum jail term for hacking to 10 years, and placed it under the remit of Soca, the FBI-style crime agency."This shows it is crucial that Soca has teeth," said Mark Murtagh of Websense, which carried out the survey.
Blazing Angels: Squadrons Of WWIIXBOX 360Blazing Angels tells the story of an American pilot sent over here during the second world war to make sure we plucky Brits aren't overrun by the encroaching Nazi menace. If you think that sounds like a cue for a series of off-colour national stereotypes and outlandish English accents, you'd be absolutely right. Story mode features the customary mix of air-to-air combat, bombing and escort operations, using a gradually unlocked selection of aircraft. Arriving somewhere between the knockabout arcade joy of Crimson Skies and the sheer scale of Secret Weapons Over Normandy, Blazing Angels isn't quite the equal of either game, suffering from that flight sim staple of constant circling of enemy planes. The boredom this creates is alleviated to an extent by the ability to call in wingmen to create a good old-fashioned diversion.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;50Far Cry Instincts: PredatorXBOX 360The Xbox 360 version of Far Cry looks prettier, has more cunning enemies and, like the PC original, lets you stray through the jungle. At heart, however, this is the same set of levels and set pieces as the Xbox version, seeing you plunder Jacutan Island as reluctant hero Jack Carver, gradually acquiring super-power style "feral" abilities. Once you've done that, there's Evolution, a new chapter, where Jack takes on a group of pirates in the usual weapon-strewn tropical paradise. The ability to approach each engagement however you choose and the game's generous save points make its intense battles more enjoyable, especially in the higher levels.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;50Aeon Flux PS2XBOXBased on the recent sci-fi movie starring Charlize Theron, itself derived from an MTV cartoon of the same name (featuring the same heroine, with fewer clothes), comes Aeon Flux the videogame. If you need reminding that games bearing film licenses are to be avoided, this ought to do the trick. After its winning training level, that introduces you to Ms Flux and her acrobatic combat techniques, you quickly discover that taking on groups of enemies requires only mashing of buttons on the control pad as you punch, kick and shoot foes who are rarely visible, the camera consistently pointing anywhere but at the action. Multiply this scene of random stupidity by 10 hours, and that's Aeon Flux. Dire.&#183;THQ, &pound;30
MondaySelling 18+ games to minors decliningThere is relevance of game studies to game designGarded answersTuesdayPS3 at E3? ScarcelyTake my (interactive) wife, pleaseCapcom UK gets mobile messageLara defeats godfatherWednesdaySony is "most trusted" out of Big ThreeTo boredly go: why aren't game worlds as interesting as Venus?Sensi and playabilityRevolution twosomeThursdayDfES and ELSPA are searching for game-literate teachersPS3 currently too big and too clever?Paint-by-numbers in interactive-landLong weekend - game onOnline "encounter" studyFridayStoryville meets the game
It's almost the holiday weekend! What willyoudo with your free Monday?
CBS has a good, chunky feature about the role of story in modern interactive entertainment. The article asks whether games will ever have a "Citizen Kane" or "War and Peace". Of course, some - those who view games as a form of play only - see this approach as futile. Others - those who examine gameplay as storytelling - anticipate that the story will outweigh the importance of interactivity. Lest we get into a philosophical argumentwell-trodbetweenludologists and narratologists, it's best if we listen to MIT'sHenry Jenkinsfor his perspectives on the issue:Some of the directions that video games are moving in will look more and more like literature. If you take a game like Final Fantasy, you are certainly still in the trajectory of at least really good genre literature. Some of the things video games are going to do are what literature has long wanted to doMore fromCBS.
The campaign has unearthed an official and free source of UK tidal data - which can be used for commercial products that could be produced in competition with the UK Hydrographic Office, which offers only a limited amount of free data.The British Oceanographic Data Centre (www.bodc.ac.uk) in Liverpool provides access to data collected from Britain's network of tidal recording gauges around the coast. There is no restriction on its use to generate commercial data, such as tidal predictions.The UK Hydrographic Office (www.ukho.gov.uk) also offers tidal data, with free tidal predictions for the next seven-day period. But it charges &pound;1 or &pound;1.75 for 7- and 14-day predictions before or after that time.The BODC data is made available as part of a condition imposed in July 2002 by the Department of Environment, Farming and Rural Affairs, which pays for the upkeep of the gauge network (essential for monitoring and predicting sea levels and flood surges) in return for the BODC licensing the raw data to anyone. And there is plenty: some of the gauge data records go back to 1915.On the face of it, such an approach conflicts with the mission of the UKHO, which as a "trading fund" is required to cover its running costs and achieve a 5% return on capital invested. Thus while the UKHO charges for tidal predictions, the free program Xtide (www.flaterco.com/xtide) has since 2003 used the BODC data to produce a "tidal harmonic", which predicts the time and level of tides.The BODC confirmed this week that there are 1,347 commercial users of the data, mostly based in the UK, of which 659 signed up since April last year. The question now is: what value does the commercial useof that data add to the UK economy?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Bill Gates may be the world's richest man, but the technology he uses to do his job is probably not much different from yours; perhaps you couldn't afford his house, but you probably could afford his computers. He uses a Dell PC running Windows XP Pro, with the standard Bliss (rolling hills) background, he answers his email in Outlook, and drinks Coke from the can.What's more, Gates's office furniture looks like standard issue stuff for Microsoft programmers. This is functional, but well below the levels of plushness enjoyed by senior executives even in much smaller companies. Microsoft has always been utilitarian and egalitarian, having started next door to a launderette in Albuquerque. Still, the sight of Bill's workspace must have had jaws dropping all over corporate America.The insight into Gates's daily life came via a simple, self-penned piece, How I Work, in Fortune magazine (www.tinyurl.com/qtpxs) This revealed that Microsoft's president and chief software architect uses a Dell with three 21in LCD screens, plus a few Motion Tablet PCs and a Logitech webcam. If he could add something, it would be a digital whiteboard. "I don't have that right now, but probably I'll get a digital whiteboard in the next year," he writes.Perhaps he's saving up.Having two or three LCDs is apparently common inside Microsoft, and Microsoft Research's Mary Czerwinski studied the idea. She found that having more screen area makes people more productive with windows-based operating systems - typically by 10%, but it can be up to 44%. (Czerwinski's results were based on comparing 15in and 42in screens.) This could be an argument for buying a huge but expensive cinema-style display. However, a few 19in or 21in LCDs provide more space for a lot less cost. The main problem with expanding from two to three screens is often fitting them on an office desk.As for Tablet PCs, Gates is one of the format's biggest supporters. The Tablet PC is synchronised with the desktop machine so Gates can take it to meetings, where writing on the screen is socially more acceptable than typing. It also means his meeting notes - taken using OneNote software - are digital.When it comes to software, it's no surprise that Gates uses Microsoft products such as Outlook, OneNote, MSN Desktop Search, Live Communications Server (which provides instant messaging, and works with the Microsoft, AOL and Yahoo public IM systems), and SharePoint. The last two are part of the back-end support for Microsoft Office. Rarely used in homes and small businesses, they are common enough in large businesses that use Microsoft's server software.SharePoint Services - a free download for Windows Server - is a collaboration system that has been described as a "wiki on steroids". The basic idea, says Microsoft, is to provide an intranet platform that enables teams to "work together on documents, tasks, contacts, events, and other information". SharePoint is the basis for the forthcoming Office Live website, the companion to Windows Live, now in beta. Rather than being an online version of Microsoft Office, you need to buy a copy of Office 2003 or later to fully exploit it.Like most of us, Gates is at risk of "email overload". He writes: "I get about 100 emails a day. We apply filtering to keep it to that level - email comes straight to me from anyone I've ever corresponded with." The rest of the mail - probably thousands of messages a day - is sorted and summarised by assistants.As Gates says: "We're at the point now where the challenge isn't how to communicate effectively with email, it's ensuring that you spend your time on the email that matters most." That's a problem we all face, and today's hardware and software can't do much about it. I can imagine a mailrank algorithm that could do something like Google's PageRank, and prioritise important mail. Microsoft researchers are working on Snarf (Social Network and Relationship Finder) software to help with that. Whether Google can get there first may be one thing Gates needs to think about.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
To most of us it is a quirky desktop toy for checking out our house or a few world landmarks from space. But according to a group of US scientists, Google Earth is becoming an important tool for coordinating disaster relief efforts.During the New Orleans flood and Kashmir earthquake, for example, aid agencies used the software to manage the relief operations. And it has just become much more valuable to relief agencies helping survivors in Kashmir. Scientists have completed the mammoth task of marrying census data on villages affected by the quake with images of the stricken region.This has been a huge problem for aid agencies trying to coordinate their work and avoid duplication. "In a lot of cases, we just couldn't identify which village they were talking about," said Dr Jishnu Das at the World Bank. "They would say, 'I distributed blankets in Harrow', but we have no idea whether Harrow is in Manchester or Edinburgh."Google Earth is a free software package available online (http://earth.google.com) that incorporates satellite and aerial photographs and allows users to zoom in on any part of the globe. The images, which come from more than 100 sources including Nasa and commercial satellites, can be up to three years old, but in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and the Kashmir earthquake many more recent shots were added. For example, the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) took more than 8,000 images of New Orleans in the days after the flood using a high-resolution camera mounted on an aircraft.Search in the right placeGoogle Earth makes it convenient to search quickly for the right information in the right place. For example, which roads are flooded? Which levees are breached? Which intact buildings might act as aid distribution centres?"After Katrina, the problem was that there was actually too much [information]," said Dr Illah Nourbakhsh at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) in Pittsburgh. "The disaster agencies had a hard time piecing [pictures] together. They needed a very large wall and lots of masking tape."The software also helped relief agencies to target aid in quake-hit areas of Pakistan. "We wanted to identify the areas where we were most needed," said Arshad Abdulla, co-director of The Citizen's Foundation, a Karachi-based organisation. "The [disaster] area was so extensive we didn't want to spread ourselves too thin."And now that the visual information has been combined with census data on the names, precise locations and inhabitants of villages, it is proving an invaluable tool for long-term aid planning in Kashmir.The main advantage is that any agency trying to figure out where a village is, whether they have missed a village and what the local terrain is, can see at a click of a mouse, said Das. "Now all of that is immediately linked up to all the information we have about the village before the earthquake," he said.Putting that together might sound trivial but because different aid organisations were relying on different maps and census data, they were frequently using different village names because of differences in the transliteration from Urdu. Also, villages in the region are typically split into six or seven settlements, each with their own name. "It turned out to be a complete nightmare," said Das.Before Hurricane Katrina, Nourbakhsh and his colleague Randy Sargent had been working on software that allowed aerial photographs to be stitched together. Their Global Connection project was aimed at combining aerial photographs and information so that Google Earth could serve as a cultural resource. Their software brings together information about an aircraft's position, pitch and yaw so that the image is put in the right place and can be linked to others.When Hurricane Katrina hit, the US government asked Google to do the same thing for the disaster zone. It wanted detailed, searchable images to work out which roads were still passable, which areas were flooded and where levees were breached.But because the information was publicly available, it allowed people outside the disaster zone to contribute and keep up to date with events. One group in Pennsylvania, for example, used the information to identify churches that could be used as an outlet for food donations."People living in states 1,000 miles away would use Google Earth to see how family and friends were doing," said Nourbakhsh. "All of a sudden people had this immediate access to places in New Orleans they had a personal relationship to."Maggie Pullen, whose mother lived in Lakeview, a suburb in the north-west of the city, used a similar internet version of the NOAA images to check her mother's house. By this stage, Pullen, who works for Amnesty International in London, knew her mother had been evacuated, but could see from the photographs that the house had been severely damaged."It was pretty overwhelming. In the first few days it was chaos and no one knew which areas were affected," she said. "I wanted to see which parts of New Orleans were damaged - my favourite bars and places I used to hang out."David Spackman, who runs MapAction, an organisation that provides satellite-imaging expertise in disaster zones, said the technology would have more impact in future. "I think Google Earth's idea of enabling people across the world to see the area in detail is a good one. It certainly keeps people informed and that is good."However, he said that interpreting the images requires expertise. For example, one of the immediate satellite images from the Kashmir quake showed that all the roofs of the buildings in Muzaffarabad - which was close to the epicentre - were apparently intact, he said. "But when you actually stand on the ground you see the flat roofs had just crushed everything underneath them. I'm not entirely sure that somebody looking at the problem from afar would be able to make the sort of decisions that are made on site."Duplicating effortsAnother problem of making images available to anyone is different organisations duplicating their efforts. "If you need 5,000 blankets, before you know it the word goes out and you get 50,000. That then ties up trucks, warehouses and so on. There's always a danger of waste," said Spackman. "Such is the complexity of these natural disasters that it takes an awful lot of coordination to get the relief efforts flowing correctly."Nourbakhsh agreed, but said that if the effects of a disaster are disbursed over a wide area, local aid organisations can play a part. After the Kashmir quake, for example, the Citizen's Foundation shifted its mission from education to disaster relief because it had a network of people in the affected region. "Sometimes parallel systems can actually help because you get more information faster to the areas that have key needs."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Football focusMindjet has released a World Cup 2006 map to help football fans plot the progress of their favourite teams. A free viewer means a copy of MindManager is not required.www.mindjet.com/worldcup2006Dual bootyApple has released a beta version of Boot Camp software that enables Intel-based Macs to run Windows XP. Users can choose whether to load XP or Mac OS X, not both at the same time.HDTV soonSky is selling a high-definition television service, with installations due to start next month. Customers will pay &pound;299 for the 160GB Sky HD box plus &pound;10 a month on top of their Sky digital subscription. Seewww.sky.com/hdLost onlineFrom April 30, America's Disney-ABC Television Group will stream free episodes of programs such as Desperate Housewives and Lost on the web - but they will include advertising breaks.Speed chargingLater this month, Sony plans to introduce a range of colourful Walkman Flash memory MP3 players (512MB, 1GB and 2GB) that can be recharged to provide 3 hours of playing time in just 3 minutes.Rum radioNext month, Bacardi will offer a B-Live radio station for mobile phones. For "uplifting party anthems" etc, check outwww.bacardibliveradio.com.Stereophonics for ChinaSina - China's largest ISP, with 180m users - is adding a UK music channel to its portal. The streaming music and video clips will be supplied by the Association of Independent Music, and London's mayor Ken Livingstone will witness the signing of the deal today in Shanghai.Start 'em youngFisher-Price is releasing an MP3 player and a Kid-Tough digital camera for tiny tots as part of its new Kidtronics range.Being playfulBenetton has launched an online toybox offering simple but creative games. Seewww.benettonplay.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Not according to a back-of-the-envelope calculation by Jupiter Research's Mark Mulligan, who reckons the true figure is closer to &pound;290m. "Where's the extra &pound;0.81bn?" he asks rhetorically on his weblog (http://tinyurl.com/j3jtm).Mulligan points out that UK music industry sales in 2002 were just over &pound;2bn; in 2005, &pound;1.85bn, a cumulative decrease that's a long way short of &pound;1bn.The British Phonographic Industry points out the figure, announced along with a new set of lawsuits against some of its customers reckoned to have been illicitly file sharing, was included in a press release (http://tinyurl.com/z6klb). That quoted the independent research company TNS Worldpanel, which put the cost to British music in 2005 of people file sharing rather than paying for music at &pound;414m.Add to that the &pound;278m drop in sales between 2002 and 2003, and another &pound;376m from 2003-2004, and voil&aacute;: there's the BPI's &pound;1.1bn figure for the loss to British music. Or, as it quietly adds, "approximately &pound;650m at trade value" - that is, to the music industry rather than the industry and retailers together.Mulligan is unimpressed: "The BPI should (a) know better than to infer that consumer survey data is national market revenue data; (b) accept there are many bigger reasons impacting on declining music sales - prices too high, physical piracy, competing expenditure on DVDs and games consoles, and so on."He points out only 10% of UK internet users are file sharers, or just 5% of the UK population. If they were responsible for all that lost spending, they must have been very big spenders to have left a &pound;1.1bn hole in the music business. "But they're not," Mulligan said this week. "They tend to be young and on low incomes. Physical piracy and the competition from games and DVDs is far more important."The BPI responds that the methodology shows people who start file sharing end up cutting back on spending: "There are other factors but this looked at the behaviour of music buyers."Mulligan says the BPI is hyping the numbers because it fears what will happen when young file sharers grow up - and are used to not paying for music; though studies show they do buy mobile ringtones. Might those compensate for the missing millions? Even there Mulligan has bad news: "The modern ringtones such as polyphonic ones are classified as cover versions - so the composer gets a cut but not the record label."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Yes. At least, if you take the word of Chris Lewis, the European regional vice president at Microsoft Xbox. But he would say that, wouldn't he? And Sony's PlayStation 2 passed the 100m sales mark last November, whereas Microsoft has shifted a comparatively paltry 24 million Xboxes. So is he just being optimistic?The difference is that Microsoft now has the jump on Sony. When the PlayStation 3 launches in November (in theory), the Xbox 360 will already have been on sale for a full year. "Is it PlayStation or DelayStation?" taunts Lewis, who is also scornful of Sony's insistence on using the PlayStation 3 to get its Blu-ray high-definition DVD standard into people's houses."Blu-ray is untried, untested, not established," he says. "I think there is a very strong risk in terms of the consumer having to pay for something that may never make real ongoing sense. Right now, HD-DVD [which, uncoincidentally, Microsoft backs] is far more established and we'll offer a peripheral which you'll hear a bit more about at E3 [the big videogames show in LA in a month's time]."To beat Sony's eager hordes, the Xbox 360 will need a huge installed base. Steve Ballmer, head of Microsoft, says history shows that in console generation wars, the first to sell 10m wins that round (http://tinyurl.com/pggkf) Lewis will say only that by June, between 4.5m and 5.5m will have been shipped worldwide and there will be 80 Xbox 360 games on sale worldwide. That may be conservative, as the production bottlenecks that led to retail shortages at the launch seem to have been overcome.But will the Xbox 360 have what it has so far lacked - a new "killer" game to motivate gamers to buy the hardware? Lewis suggests that Epic's Gears of War "will be amazing. It will be in some ways a defining title in the way Splinter Cell and Halo were for Xbox. And the Halo franchise remains important to what we do." Which implicitly confirms rumours that Halo 3 won't ship until next year.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Speeding up our slow PCIt has been suggested that to speed up our slow computer, we need to reinstall Windows as well as download various programs. The person would charge &pound;90 for this. Is this the right way to go about it and if so is the price reasonable?Paul GabrielJack Schofield replies:This is like asking if you need to paint your shed: since I can't see it, I don't know. It's certainly true that DOS-based versions of Windows (95/98/SE/Me) used to become clogged up over time, and benefited from a fresh installation every 18 months or so. If you are in this position, then &pound;90 seems a very reasonable charge for backing up all your data, reinstalling Windows and restoring your data correctly. This would normally take two to four hours. However, New Technology versions of Windows (NT, 2000, XP, Vista) generally do not seem to benefit much. Unless your system has become infested with viruses, Trojans or other malware, running CCleaner (www.ccleaner.com) should be enough. Either way, try visiting PC Pitstop (www.pcpitstop.com) which downloads an ActiveX control to test your PC's performance. This will analyse your hardware, give your PC a score that you can compare with similar systems, and suggest ways you might improve it.In general, the single best thing you can do to improve the performance of a Windows (or Mac OS X) machine is to install more memory, and Crucial's Memory Advisor tool (www.crucial.com) makes this simple. Windows XP with 2GB of memory really flies, and you can get more than 1GB for &pound;90. However, if you are also running out of hard drive space, have a slow graphics card etc, it may be more cost effective to buy a new machine.Hotmail lockoutFor no apparent reason, my Hotmail password no longer works. I activated the reset option and found I had forgotten the exact answer to the secret question "Your First Car". Is there a way to contact a person by phone to help sort this out? This is a desperate situation as all my email contacts are located there.Steven RodneyJS:There's no way a free service with about 200 million users can afford to answer the phone. However, go to the Passport log-in screen (https://login.passport.net), click the option that says "Get answers from Customer Support", and then select "Contact us" to get a mail form. In section 2, it asks "What type of problem do you have?" Pick the drop-down option "I forgot my password", fill in the other details, and hope for the best. Apart from that, you should never rely solely on a free service, or on any online service, to store important data. You should always have a back-up copy of any data you can't replace. Hotmail is particularly dangerous as it deletes all your mail if you forget to log in for more than 30 days. I'd suggest using Gmail or Yahoo, at least as a back-up. Otherwise switch to the Windows Live Mail beta, because mail is not deleted for 120 days.Clean it upIs there any way to delete all my files from the hard drive of a laptop, and all web addresses, before parting with it?Eleanor MelvilleJS:Windows stores data in so many odd places - including the registry, the system restore database, and the swap file - that there is no convenient way to do this. The free CCleaner (www.ccleaner.com) will clear out most of the junk, including temporary files and history files, and this could be enough. However, it might be better to download one of the many paid-for programs that are designed for the task. Examples include Acronis Privacy Expert Suite 9.0 (http://www.acronis.com) Secure Clean (http://tinyurl.com/lunc6) Privacy Fence (www.onlylsoft.com) and PC Pitstop Erase (http://tinyurl.com/avlky).You should also use a "disk scrubber" or eraser to wipe the free disk space, if one is not included. The free Hard Disk Scrub v2.1 (www.summitcn.com/download.html) will do the job. More thorough commercial programs include East-Tec Eraser 2006 (www.east-tec.com) and Jetico's BCWipe (www.jetico.com). Bear in mind that a scrub to military standards can take days.http://www.summitcn.com/download.htmlData rescueMy Compaq Presario 2100 notebook is dead. Can I take out the hard drive and install it in my desktop PC?Sue SanchezJS:Yes, but you will probably need an adaptor to convert the notebook's 2.5in IDE hard drive connector to a standard desktop 40-pin IDE bus. There are many available: search Google for "notebook drive adapter". A simpler alternative is to fit it into an external enclosure that you can connect via a USB port. These are readily available from computer superstores and Amazon. Try this Google search:http://tinyurl.com/knpyn.Backchat&middot; Last week, Helen Gazeley asked about using partitioned drives. Pat Whitehead says: "All our company laptops are set up with C and D drives with Outlook and My Documents on the D drive, and I have never heard of Windows 'forgetting' this." Nor have I, but I have seen it "forget" the new locations of Outlook Express email and the swap file. Pat likes to use C for Windows, D for programs and E for documents, as it makes backing up simpler. More people did this when using the old DOS file system, because smaller drives were more efficient. This is not an issue with the NTFS (New Technology File System) used in XP, and external USB and network drives have made backing up much simpler. It is simpler to reinstall Windows if you have data on a separate partition, but I've never needed to reinstall XP.&middot; Tony Meacock says Graphic Workshop Pro (http://tinyurl.com/7f43s) supports Adobe PSD and PDD files.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
TheBare Featswebsite has compared programs running under Windows XP Pro via Boot Camp and Mac OS X 10.4.6 (Tiger), both running on a MacBook Pro with 2.0GHz Intel Core Duo, 2GB of 667MHz memory and Radeon X1600 Mobility GPU. The results are not necessarily obvious -- for example, XP is faster running Doom 3 and OS X is faster running the old Quake 3 -- though it confirms the suspicion that iTunes for Windows is basically cr^h^h a sub-optimal performer.Where OS X loses is, predicatably and inevitably, when running old PowerPC code via Rosetta. In the two PhotoShop CS2 tests, the native Windows XP app runs about three times faster than the non-native OS X version. "After seeing our test results, you're going to be tempted to obtain a Windows edition to run while you are waiting for Adobe to finish their Universal Binary version of the Mac edition," says the site.Over at Macworld, they've been runningXP-on-Mac benchmarkson Intel-based Macs and bog-standard HP and Dell PCs. The site says:As you can see, the Macs running Windows gave these PCs a run for their money, with the 2.16GHz MacBook Pro turning in the fastest scores on three of the five individual tests. The build-to-order MacBook configuration also tied the 2.16GHz HP Compaq in the sixth test, involving Roxio VideoWave.Noticeably absent from the table is the Mac mini Core Duo which had trouble completing the test suite (the multitasking test in particular).Macworld doesn't mention prices. However, a MacBook Pro (2.16GHz Core Duo/1GB/100GB Hard Drive) has a 15.4in screen and costs around $2,794 whereas a similar 2.0GHz Dell Inspiron E1705 costs $2,166 with a 17in screen. (The Dell upgrade to 2.16GHz costs $300, but Macworld tested the slower version. The Dell also includes two years support instead of 90 days.) The HP Compaq nx9420 (Price Range: $2028-2229) also has a 17in screen.In the tests, the iMac 2.0GHz Core Duo T2500 is slightly quicker than the HP Pavilion a1250n Media Center Desktop PC, which has a 2.0GHz AMD Athlon 64 X2 3800+ dual-core processor. However, the HP system is last year's model and no longer on sale, except as a refurb. The 1GB iMac T2500 has a 20in screen and costs about $1,800.
"Just who would want to vandalise an entry on cheese?" wonders Skip, a Wikipedia administrator. Watching the online encyclopaedia's raw submission queue in real time can be unnerving. The online reference site that anyone can edit is defaced 20 times a minute and cheese, it seems, is one of the most popular targets for creative embellishment.In the administrator's console, another fresh article - Wikipedia has more than a million now - scrolls past: "James is my fren," it reads in its entirety.Robert McHenry, a former editor-in-chief of Encyclopaedia Britannica, has described Wikipedia as "a game without consequences". BBC Radio 1's afternoon DJs recently took turns to deface each other's entries live on air. MPs have joined in, too. But as Skip begins to guide me through the arcane and often Kafkaesque bureaucracy of Wikipedia, vandalism starts to look like the least of its problems.Skip isn't his real name or his Wikipedia identity. It's a pseudonym the 30-year-old Silicon Valley IT professional uses as he documents the inner machinations of the project, along with a dozen other Wikipedia administrators, on a site called WikiTruth (www.wikitruth.info).Wikipedia, endlessly replicated on the web, is one example of a glut of hazy information, the consequences of which we have barely begun to explore, that the internet has made endlessly available. Is Wikipedia really the best the net can offer - and if it isn't, where should we be looking for the answers?While plenty of people nurse resentments against Wikipedia, having failed to win a consensus for their views, Skip's colleagues at WikiTruth have a different motivation. Branding themselves the true keepers of the flame, they argue Wikipedia's wounds are self-inflicted and unnecessary.When the business author Nicholas Carr identified last October a typically banal Wikipedia entry (http://tinyurl.com/8mr5x), he prompted a rare admission. Wikipedia's co-founder and site owner Jimmy Wales agreed, calling the examples Carr cited "horrific crap". Yet these articles were mature, Carr pointed out, and had been edited hundreds of times. Might the mass participation be hurting, not helping?Gradual deteriorationThis gradual deterioration afflicts any utopian online space, and Skip ruefully notes even the best Wikipedia work - its catalogue of featured articles of the week - degenerates once out of the spotlight.That isn't true, of course, of printed work such as Britannica's entries. But the encyclopaedia company has been hit hard, first by the arrival of CD-Rom-based rivals such as Microsoft's Encarta in 1993, and then the net. In 1996 it laid off its door-to-door sales staff. In 1994 it launched a website. The rise of Wikipedia as an "online encyclopaedia" has added to the pressure.Now, though, Britannica has been taking the offensive. The company strongly rebutted a study conducted by journalists at Nature magazine that compared Wikipedia favourably to Britannica, and which was accompanied by an editorial plea for the scientific community to contribute to the project. The study blind-tested extracts from each site with experts, and was widely reported as showing them to be of comparable quality. "It should have said 31% less reliable and worse written," McHenry says of the Nature study. Britannica, meanwhile, says the study was biased towards Wikipedia. "It's offensive to lump these gross offences against publishing with a typo in Britannica," says its executive editor Theodore Pappas.Britannica said Nature cited passages not in the encyclopedia and criticised it for refusing to publish the referees' reports. Nature says it stands by its report and can't release the full reports for confidentiality reasons.Nature's news editor Jim Giles denies the journal had identified itself closely in the Wikipedia camp. "Each has its merits," he says. "In our editorial, we simply argued that Wikipedia has potential and scientists can help realise that potential."Britannica's president Jorge Cauz identifies a homogeneity online he finds unsettling. "Internet discourse has the ability to negate the diversity of voices, and no one can differentiate between truth and myth," he says."It's a hall of mirrors," agrees Michael Gorman, the Briton who is president of the American Library Association (ALA), "and it's very addictive."But for participants, the appeal fades, notes Skip. Some of Wikipedia's most valued contributors have left in the past year, with two waves of departures in recent months, he says. Former administrators speak of burnout, brought on by bureaucratic warfare. Now Wikipedia faces a fork. If it tightens its open approach, it risks losing its most active participants, for whom Wikipedia is a utopian cause.Away from the hurly-burly of Wikipedia, even current events can seem oddly remote and processed once they are viewed online. Google News, for example, employs computer algorithms similar to those used in spam filters to identify and present the news. In looking for similarities, the news is homogenised and breaking stories fail to rise to prominence.For the veteran researcher Daniel Brandt, who taught CIA whistleblower Philip Agee how to use computers, much of what a human editor provides is lost. "What's gone is any sense of 'a scoop' or 'an important development' or 'new information that puts a new slant on an ongoing story'. There's no authority, no perspective and no sense of historical continuity. It's a dumbing-down process," says the Texas-based Brandt.Google News had a serendipity now missing, mourns the veteran blogger Jorn Barger. When it appeared in 2002, "the top article might come from anywhere in the world or in small-town America but people complained, I guess, that unwelcome perspectives were getting too much prominence and Google tweaked the algorithm," Barger wrote last year.How then are we coping with this glut of unreliable information? Some are doing better than others, suggests Will Davies, a senior fellow at the Institute of Public Policy Research.For Davies, the accumulation of information is no substitute for critical thinking and the problem is it begins to provide its own self-justification."It's a false supposition we can endlessly delay having to interpret and judge things by stacking more and more bits of data in front of us," he says. "That data is a comfort blanket in a way - we all do this. People are becoming addicted to getting more information all the time. You can see it when they get out their BlackBerrys as soon as they've stepped off a plane."For the former journalist and author Dan Gillmor, this aggregation of information technology enables is synonymous with wisdom. "My readers by definition know more than me," he said recently. "They have facts we don't know."But is the widespread availability of technology generating such wisdom or even improving our learning? For the ALA's Gorman, who in the 1990s wrote for librarians an influential guide to evaluating technology trends, such claims are risible. "No one would tell you a student using Google today is producing work as good as they were 20 years ago using printed sources. Despite these amazing technical breakthroughs, these technologies haven't added to human wellbeing."Davies agrees. "It hasn't made us addicted to education," he notes. Nor do the skills required to aggregate information quickly and multitask between information streams encourage understanding.Byproducts of businessesAnd while technology enthusiasts celebrate the destruction of old industries, Gorman warns technology has failed to create economic conditions to take their place. Quality information costs money to edit but the best online collections of data - in what is sometimes called the "deep web" - are byproducts of successful print businesses. Lose these, he suggests, and we're left with the banality of Google and Wikipedia. Davies is more optimistic. People will return to traditional publishers as they see the consequences of the wiki approach, he thinks, and there will be an audience for both.But supposing these businesses survive. Will the world be able to read them? Google's relationships with publishers are fraught - its Print project is the subject of lawsuits - but this dispute may be of less lasting significance than we think.In the US in the 1980s, a movement was born to bring the best of these expensive information collections to the public, free at the point of delivery. This movement predated the public internet and may yet transform it beyond recognition. Libraries began to negotiate collectively for access to databases, which their copyright holders today would never let the public view through Google. The members of San Francisco's Public Library, for example, can access the full Encyclopaedia Britannica, Lexis Nexis and more than 70 databases from any browser, simply by entering their library card number.It hasn't been easy, points out Susan Hildreth, the city's former chief librarian and now California State Librarian. The state's sheer size steers some database owners to making deals with smaller regional libraries. But it's not difficult to imagine churches or community groups taking advantage of such a model. It's been a success and real library usage has increased, she says.For Davies, we can be proud we have made a success of the technology infrastructure - laying down the pipes - but we have neglected the social institutions necessary to make them work. Obstacles remain to bringing the successful collective licensing model to the UK. It costs money and Gorman notes funding for US libraries is higher than for Britain's impoverished public services. And the utopian dreams of what Carr calls the "cult of the amateur" die hard."It's hard to tell someone who's devoting 40 hours a week to Wikipedia that it's going to fail," says Skip. "But it will."He returns to his console. Somewhere in cyberspace, a Wikipedia editor is correcting the encyclopaedia's article for cheese.Andrew Orlowski is San Francisco bureau chief for The Register (www.theregister.co.uk)&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Via theSex in Games blogfrom theIGDAcomes an announcement that a student atTrinity University in San Antonio, Texasis seeking players of MMOGs who are willing to discuss their sexual encounters in virtual worlds. From the call for participants:As part of an ongoing research project, I would like to talk to players about their sexual experiences within virtual environments such as Everquest II, Second Life and Sociolotron. I plan on conducting these interviews via e-mail, online forums, instant messages and in-game interactions.I realize that this is a sensitive subject. I have no ulterior motives to this study except to learn about people and their in-game sexual practices. If you decide to participate, your anonymity and confidentiality will be assured. The study will only mention the subjects' genders and ages.You must be at least 18 to participate. If you are willing to be interviewed, please contact mehere.For more on sex in games, seeWired's recent article,1up's recent coverage and the ever-enlighteningMMOrgy.
It has been suggested that to speed up our slow computer, we need to reinstall Windows as well as download various programs. The person would charge £90 for this. Is this the right way to go about it and if so is the price reasonable? Paul GabrielThis is like asking if you need to paint your shed: since I can't see it, I don't know. It's certainly true that DOS-based versions of Windows (95/98/SE/Me) used to become clogged up over time, and benefited from a fresh installation every 18 months or so. If you are in this position, then £90 seems a very reasonable charge for backing up all your data, reinstalling Windows and restoring your data correctly. This would normally take two to four hours. However, New Technology versions of Windows (NT, 2000, XP, Vista) generally do not seem to benefit much. Unless your system has become infested with viruses, Trojans or other malware, runningCCleanershould be enough. Either way, try visitingPC Pitstop, which downloads an ActiveX control to test your PC's performance. This will analyse your hardware, give your PC a score that you can compare with similar systems, and suggest ways you might improve it.In general, the single best thing you can do to improve the performance of a Windows (or Mac OS X) machine is to install more memory, andCrucial's Memory Advisor toolmakes this simple. Windows XP with 2GB of memory really flies, and you can get more than 1GB for £90. However, if you are also running out of hard drive space, have a slow graphics card etc, it may be more cost effective to buy a new machine.
For no apparent reason, my Hotmail password no longer works. I activated the reset option and found I had forgotten the exact answer to the secret question "Your First Car". Is there a way to contact a person by phone to help sort this out? This is a desperate situation as all my email contacts are located there. Steven RodneyThere's no way a free service with about 200 million users can afford to answer the phone. However, go to the Passport log-in screen (https://login. passport.net), click the option that says "Get answers from Customer Support", and then select "Contact us" to get a mail form. In section 2, it asks "What type of problem do you have?" Pick the drop-down option "I forgot my password", fill in the other details, and hope for the best.Apart from that, you should never rely solely on a free service, or on any online service, to store important data. You should always have a back-up copy of any data you can't replace. Hotmail is particularly dangerous as it deletes all your mail if you forget to log in for more than 30 days. I'd suggest using Gmail or Yahoo, at least as a back-up. Otherwise switch to the Windows Live Mail beta, because mail is not deleted for 120 days.Backchat: Michael Juffs says: "There is a free web-based email service that has no time limit for storing messages: the much overlooked Opera and its Operamail." The drawback is that it provides only 3MB of storage space, and the paid-for version only 25MB.
Is there any way to delete all my files from the hard drive of a laptop, and all web addresses, before parting with it? Eleanor MelvilleWindows stores data in so many odd places -- including the registry, the system restore database, and the swap file -- that there is no convenient way to do this. The freeCCleanerwill clear out most of the junk, including temporary files and history files, and this could be enough. However, it might be better to download one of the many paid-for programs that are designed for the task. Examples include Acronis Privacy Expert Suite 7.0 (http://tinyurl.com/nfpdg), Secure Clean (http://tinyurl.com/lunc6), Privacy Fence (www.onlylsoft.com) and PC Pitstop Erase (http://tinyurl.com/avlky).You should also use a "disk scrubber" or eraser to wipe the free disk space, if one is not included. The freeHard Disk Scrub v2.1will do the job. More thorough commercial programs includeEast-Tec Eraser 2006and Jetico'sBCWipe. Bear in mind that a scrub to military standards can take days.Comment: How far you go depends, obviously, on what kind of data the PC contains. If it was my own email, I wouldn't go to extremes, but if it was a hostpital's confidential medical data, then I'd be legally and morally obliged to take data deletion very seriously. If you plan to sell or scrap a PC, it would clearly be wise to remove any sensitive personal or financial information.Backchat: Terry Vincent writes from France to say: "After running CCleaner I found that all of the French in my documents was changed to English (US)." This is something I can't account for, but is worth raising in the CCleaner help forum athttp://forum.ccleaner.com.
My Compaq Presario 2100 notebook is dead, dead, dead. Can I take out the hard drive and install it in my desktop PC? Sue SanchezYes, but you will probably need an adaptor to convert the notebook's 2.5in IDE hard drive connector to a standard desktop 40-pin IDE bus. There are many available: search Google for "notebook drive adapter". A simpler alternative is to fit it into an external enclosure that you can connect via a USB port. These are readily available from computer superstores and Amazon.Try this Google search(US version) or this onGoogle UK.
Google Calendar is finally available athttp://calendar.google.com/, at leastfour months later than expected. First impressions: it seems very nicely done. You can create multiple calendars, share them, and print them out. Performance is snappy, which it probably should be if your calendar only contains two events. It does event reminders and emails, and you can import calendars in iCal or CSV (Microsoft Outlook) format.Writing about this in December, I noted that: "Google Gmail users might also appreciate it if Google could copy the Microsoft Outlook feature of dragging and dropping an email message to create a calendar entry. (Or you can drag a contact to the calendar and Outlook will trigger a Meeting Request email.) "According to the Google Calendar help files, I'm supposed to see an "Add to calendar link when you open a message that contains event information". But I haven't managed to find such a link so far....Still, at first glance, it seems a decent competitor to Yahoo's Calendar, the market leader online, which has been around since the last century, and the two dozennew entrants such as 30 Boxes. Google Calendar certainly looks nicer than the Yahoo and Microsoft MSN efforts. But how good it really is will take more than five minutes to find out....CNethas a useful story, as doUSA TodayandReuters.
Ah, the long weekend. Perfect for doing stuff like, er, putting shelves up while rushing on sugar. Most importantly though, it's an opportunity to get stuck into some gaming. For me this is the perfect time to check out a wedge of new stuff that has arrived, including Battlefield 2: Modern Combat and Football Manger 360. And of course, I'll be continuing my journey to Oblivion and hopefully finishing off Tomb Raider Legend. Oh and playing some Top Spin 2, plus checking in on Animal Crossing. Yup, sleep may be an issue. Anyone else planning a gaming sesh or two? If so, what games are on the menu?
It may be last month's news, but I've just sat down and thought about the fantastic news aboutBob Rossand Nintendo. In another coup for the most innovative of consoles, the American TV painter (who looks not unlike British Institution and fellow TV artiste (Australian) Rolf Harris) is lined up for an exclusive interactive paint-by-numbers. It'll be developed by puzzle creatorsAGFRAG.Hey, if we can make music withdigital plankton, why can't we draw happy clouds?I'm just astounded it took so long. If you have an opinion, I suggest you join the Bob Ross Game Group.viaKotaku
Two pieces of PS3 speculation are doing the rounds this morning. First up, the Inquirerreckonsthe next-gen machine is still far from complete. Apparently, the innards are too big to fit into the casing and Sony is still bidding on components for the end product - two aspects which are usually ironed out at this stage in a console's pre-launch gestation.Meanwhile, PS3portal.comclaimsto have spoken to developers who believe PS3, like Xbox 360, will have an OS running in the background while you're playing games in order to facilitate in-game chat and live downloads. However, the site suggests that in PS3, this will take up, "25% of the available Cores on the CPU and 18.75% of the available RAM in the system". In other words, alotof the available resources.Is this just typical scaremongering conjured up by an online media community fascinated by the prospect of Sony falling on its face? Or are there real concerns amid the vague conjecture and non-attributed developer chat?
This came to my attention yesterday via the usual nefarious routes. One note - they're only looking forUK-basedteachers.Video Games - teaching tool or classroom distraction?Are you currently using computer and video games as a teaching tool in your classroom?If so, then the DfES and ELSPA (Entertainment &amp; Leisure Software Publishers Association) would like to talk to you. We are keen to hear from teachers of all levels willing to be interviewed for a major publication supported by the DfES focusing on the use of interactive leisure software in education.We are interested in speaking with anyone currently utilising computer and video games within their schools, ether as part of lessons, during after school clubs or to aid social development.If you would like to take part in this debate, please contactheather.wilkins@bhpr.co.ukwith your name, telephone number, email address, current teaching position and brief details of how you are using computer and video games in your school.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..A thirst for knowledgeWikipedia and other online databases provide a soupy morass of information, but where can we find the variety of views that leads to wisdom, asks Andrew Orlowski.Germans lead the charge to register .eu domain namesWithin a week of registration opening for .eu domains, Brussels has been deluged with applications - with the Germans in the vanguard. Tom Rowland reports.OFT warns of unfair advantage on dataAn Office of Fair Trading report is expected to conclude that government-owned bodies compete unfairly in the market in public sector information.Tiny tubes could bring big savings on fuel billsWinter fuel bills are expensive but fear not, says Michael Pollitt - nanotechnology might soon offer a cheaper alternative.Hold the web in the palm of your handVictor Keegan: Webaroo's new data capture technology suggests that the ability to carry your own customised web around with you will soon be unexceptional.TechnobileKieren McCarthy wonders if there is anything more frightening, and at the same time more pathetic, than someone in an impotent techno-rage.Read this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.Has file sharing cost the music industry £1.1bn in 3 years?Not according to a back-of-the-envelope calculation by Jupiter Research's Mark Mulligan, who reckons the true figure is closer to £290m.Can the Xbox 360 outsell the PlayStation 3?Yes. At least, if you take the word of Chris Lewis, the European regional vice president at Microsoft Xbox. But he would say that, wouldn't he?Discipline: a driving force behind creativityIf videogame development is to remain fresh, argues Keith Stuart, the industry needs a corporate culture that nourishes quirky design - but within a strict framework.Mio's A701 smartphoneIntegrating a GPS satellite navigation system into a mobile may sound like a tall order, but Mio are leading the way.Evesham's MBox hard disk and Roku streamerIf your PC's hard drive is cluttered with audio files, Evesham has a solution.RabbitPoint's VoIP mobile a mixed bagRabbitPoint's new VoIP mobile combines surprisingly good quality with a lack of flexibility.Screens, Tablets, email: but is Bill happy at his work?Bill Gates may be the world's richest man, but the technology he uses to do his job is probably not much different from yours, writes Jack Schofield.Ask JackGot a problem or question with your computer? Jack can help. Send your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity; please include full details with your query.Resolution for earthly troublesTo most of us it is a quirky desktop toy for checking out our house or a few world landmarks from space. But according to a group of US scientists, Google Earth is becoming an important tool for coordinating disaster relief efforts.Has Hollywood gone overboard on piracy?The entertainment industry argues that its new AACS digital rights management system for HD discs will bring flexibility to the use of video content, but consumer campaigners say it has taken too much control. George Cole reports.NewsBytesNews in brief
Spring, a time of frenzied activity in the natural world, has proved equally as stirring for the videogame industry. Last week, Microsoft bought Lionhead Studios, the UK developer of Black &amp; White and The Movies. Two days before that, the US mobile games giant Glu purchased the UK publisher iFone, which has the rights to convert Atari and Sega classics for Java phones. Sega, meanwhile, has also been on a shopping spree, grabbing Sports Interactive (creator of Championship Manager) and the San Francisco-based developer Secret Level.Usually, industry watchers take a dim view of such corporate bustle, bemoaning the homogenisation of game development and the creeping death of the independent spirit. But is consolidation such a bad thing? Not always. History has shown that developers, like ageing pop musicians, can become flabby if left to their own devices for too long.Take Scottish studio DMA design. Responsible for the classic puzzler Lemmings, the company rocketed into a creative vortex in the late 90s, before being bought out by Rockstar. What emerged from the chaos? Grand Theft Auto III - one of the most important British games ever released.US developer Neversoft had a terrifyingly bad mid-90s. Then Activision bought it and put it to work on the international megahit Tony Hawk's Pro Skater. Electronic Arts' purchase of Bullfrog productions in 1995 saw the company abandon vanity projects in favour of big sellers Theme Hospital and Dungeon Keeper II. Before Infogrames bought out "old skool" UK software house Ocean, the company's internal studio was working on HMS Carnage - a steam-punk space shoot-'em-up featuring galactic bi-planes. Uh-huh.Mergers and acquisitions usually bring discipline, and when large numbers of people are involved - as is the case with modern videogame production - this can be a much more valuable driving force than creative freedom. The "it's finished when it's finished" approach rarely works: Id pulled it off with Doom III and Quake IV, Valve did it with Half-Life 2, but for each of those titles there are 10 bloated and pretentious failures.Nature consolidates. It is the way of the world. What the industry needs is a corporate culture that nourishes quirky design - but within a strict framework. The tightly controlled Hollywood studio system of the 1940s provides a pretty good model. Sports Interactive, through its excellent relationship with Sega, has learned to trim its excesses, but at the moment Lionhead, a national treasure, is operating like a maverick auteur of the 1970s, spinning out its good ideas into confusing experiences. In this season of re-birth, it is time for a fresh approach.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Have you ever wanted to look up a website when you were miles from a telephone or wireless connection? It is now possible to do this thanks to a service launched this week enabling users to download whole sections of the web directly on to a hard disk. I tested it by trying to capture an entire issue of the Guardian. Once the software had been downloaded (free fromwebaroo.com), all I needed to do was cut and paste "guardian.co.uk" into a designated box, state the depth of links required, and press the "add to my library" button. Thirty-five minutes later I had nearly all the editorial of that issue downloaded with images. It had taken only 7MB of memory thanks to a patented process (involving maximising the relevance of stories) that, the company claims, "condenses" information by a ratio of 25,000 to 1, compared with normal compression ratios of 50 to 1.All the stories (plus blogs etc) in the paper were there to a depth of one link - which means you could read each story in full but not stories they were linked to. Future versions will download to a greater depth. The only exception was the G2 section, which, for some reason, only included the pages, not the full text. The company also offers "packs" of web pages containing all you need to know about, say, London or Paris. If you wanted to, you could download on to your laptop the Wikipedia complete with first-level links (occupying 6GB of memory) though this would take most of the night. At present it works only with PCs, not Apple computers. Downloaded websites can be automatically updated when you are back online.Since most business workers have broadband at home and in the office, it is not obvious there will be a huge demand for this service, impressive though the technology is. But Brad Husick, president of Webaroo, sees demand from people on the move, in hotels where call costs are prohibitive, in aeroplanes, on the Underground and where people don't want to risk insecure connections and the unpredictability of Wi-Fi networks, which slow down the more they are used. He points out that apart from events such as news and sport, the web is remarkably static and that even Google only totally refreshes its copy of the web every few weeks.Webaroo can be downloaded to handheld devices. Search is instant, as it is scouring memory, not the web. Though restricted to Windows devices, it will soon be available for smart phones. Webaroo will also come pre-installed on Acer PCs, giving Acer a small share of advertising revenues.What is interesting is not just the site itself but the technological improvements that have made this, and other high-storage sites, economic. The cost of storage is still plummeting. According to Husick, what cost $100 a year ago now only costs $15 and prices are still falling fast, offering the prospect of cheap mass storage in handhelds. Cheap storage is behind the explosion of sites such as YouTube, allowing you to upload your videos free. In contrast, improvements in bandwidth - the speed at which you can download - have been much more modest, especially in the UK, where a fourfold upgrade merely from 512kbps to 2MB took many years. This is now changing fast. BT announced last week a free upgrade to 8MB for users in most parts of the country, doubtless triggered by the need to promote its TV service and prior knowledge of Carphone Warehouse's plans - released on Tuesday - to offer 8MB broadband 50% cheaper than BT.For long-time BT watchers, this is an event if only because it has been promising fast broadband to the home for more than 20 years but is only now delivering it. If the price of storage continues to fall at current rates and bandwidth continues to improve, then being able to carry your own customised web around with you will soon be unexceptional.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In theory RabbitPoint sounds like a major breakthrough. It is a Voice over Internet Protocol-based mobile that uses Wi-Fi networks to enable owners to make free calls to other RabbitPoint phone owners. International or landline calls cost up to 1.5p per minute.Connecting the handset to my wireless network proved tricky, but once I'd gone through the menu and keyed in my network password I was away. It stores your most used wireless connections so you don't have to log on every time. Overall, the quality was surprisingly good.The downside is the handset, which has a mono screen and large protruding aerial. It can't receive calls unless the phone has logged on to a wireless connection, and while the calls are cheap or free, the service costs &pound;9.99 per month. It is an intriguing idea but the company's 3G/Wi-Fi handset, which will give the system a lot more flexibility, arrives later in the year.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A little effort reaps huge rewards for TV watchersThank you for highlighting a huge problem that blind people have struggled with for years (Picture the scene, April 6). My daughter is blind and has the Netgem Freeview box. It is impossible to describe the difference this has made to her. Even a good-hearted relative cannot always give the details required for a programme to be fully understood by someone without sight.What we now need is for more programmes to have audio description. It isn't a big deal for TV companies to make the effort and it means so much to those who need it. My daughter now enjoys programmes she didn't attempt to watch before because she can follow what is going on. Subtitles for the hearing impaired have been available for years and a vast amount of programmes quite rightly have it. Compare that to the amount of audio description available for today's TV schedule and you can see why it is frustrating.While the Harry Potter books are available in print for approximately &pound;16 or under, the audio version on CD costs up to &pound;80 - a high price to allow your kids to experience what "normal" kids can. Thanks to the Royal National Institute for the Blind, they got the Braille version released on the same day as the printed book - the first book ever to have done this - but the audio version wasn't available until October.Jan Grace, Basildon, Essex&middot; As I write this, I am 8,000 miles away at a talking computer. You're ahead of us here in America. There are no accessible theatres in my area. A few movies on DVD do describe things and they suddenly come to life. I listened to the hit movie The Mummy and its sequel, The Mummy Returns. I was bored, because there were so many scenes with exciting music, but no way to figure out what was going on. Then, descriptive video came. The movie came to life! I now understand why people are so interested in cinema. Keep up the good work in England, and maybe we Americans will catch up one day.Chris Hansen, Modesto, CaliforniaWho'll pay to clean it up?The semantic web (Spreading the word, April 6) is about data, not IT. Its main problem is no matter how good the computers, routers and wires, they cannot escape "junk data in - junk intelligence out". Standards are touted as a solution but any rubbish can be bodged to fit a standard. Advances in IT are also cited - for example, Kurzweil's "singularity" of 2045 when human intelligence expands by a factor of trillions after merging with IT's computational capacity.If that is so, why in 2006 do so many chief financial officers still crunch quarterly numbers in a spreadsheet instead of relying on enterprise IT? If today's systems cannot be reliably configured to keep up with the simple reality of a financial officer's bookkeeping, servicing the semantic web is a non-starter.Junk data produces junk semantics. The real question should be "who is going to pay for the global cleanup?".Adrian McKeon, Kingston-upon-ThamesUnstable signalsI thought I was the only one whose digibox would either cut out or default to another channel (Technobile, April 6). I use the word "default" guardedly, because for a while it would always go to BBC4. Then it would be News 24. But it's never random: it likes a channel for a while. I am in a terrible area for receiving digital signals, but the picture and sound are fine when I get them. Can an unstable signal switch a digibox from one channel to another, or cause it to go to standby?Andrew Armitage, Hebron, WhitlandDelaying tacticsThe furore surrounding Skype and its success (Trouble down the line, April 6) is just a delaying tactic for the telecoms giants to put their plan in place regarding their Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) networks. It's the way things are going. All communication systems will be free in the future. BT and NTL and whoever else will eventually have to succumb to this - BT is already gearing up their networks for VoIP - and jump on the wagon. I have no doubt that BT will start blocking VoIP packets soon.Ben Irvine, Manchester&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Few manufacturers have successfully shoehorned a GPS satellite navigation system into a smartphone. This is because the screen is often too small and the speakers aren't loud enough to compete with car noise. Mio has got closer than most, though, with its &pound;449 A701. It's a cut-down PDA, about the same size as the T-Mobile MDA. It has a bright screen and the most recent Windows Mobile operating system, 5.0. Sadly there are no number keys or a Qwerty keypad so you have to use the stylus to make calls. The maps are reasonably clear and easy to operate. There are a few quirks - you can't input a seven-letter postcode when stating your destination, which means you have to give the device the name of the street before you start your journey. But the directions are clear and loud and you can make and receive calls while the phone is navigating. Overall this is a solid integration of a GPS system into a mobile. Shame it isn't a little more competitively priced.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Gary McKinnon, 40, an alleged computer hacker accused of accessing Pentagon, army, navy and Nasa computers, causing &pound;350,000 of damage, could face detention in Guant&aacute;namo Bay.Defence lawyers told Bow Street magistrates yesterday that the safety of Mr McKinnon, known online as Solo, was at risk despite assurances from a US government representative that a diplomatic note guaranteed his safety.Previously, a UK judge had asked for guarantees that Mr McKinnon, who is fighting extradition to the US, would not be tried under a US military order that could send him to the jail in Cuba.
If your PC's hard drive is cluttered with audio files, Evesham has a solution. It is offering a wireless networked hard disk storage device that comes with a Roku wireless streamer. Plug the Roku into your hi-fi and you can hear the tracks stored on the MBox's hard disk anywhere in the home. It sounds great in theory, and the two 160GB mirrored hard drives that automatically back up your tracks are a nice touch. However, setting up and operating the system is a chore. Unlike the intuitive Philips WACS700, which latches directly on to a wireless connection, the user has to hook the MBox to their router or PC and plough through pages of menus. Once up and running, the system streams most audio formats. It also has access to internet radio stations. One word of caution: the Roku's output is on the low side so be prepared to crank up your amplifier. Overall this is a clunkier streamer than the Philips or the Sonos, but at &pound;600, it is priced competitively.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Since Friday, any of the European Union's 450 million citizens can register a new .eu domain name. Though the Brussels-based European Registry of Internet Domain Names (EURid) did not expect to be trampled in the stampede, it received 350,000 pre-registration applications and a further 560,000 on the first day - making .eu bigger than many small country domains, though still behind the 4.8m permutations of .uk, or the 10m .com domains.What was interesting was that the EU and its 25 member states, besides having their "reserved" list of domain names (to prevent speculators grabbing, say, town names), also published a list of banned names.Heading the banned list is "1000-jaehriges-reich.eu" ("thousand-year empire" - the Hitlerian dream). In there, too, are 3-reich, 4-reich, fuehrer-deutschland, hitler-deutschland and grossdeutsches-reich.eu. What's odd about the banned list is that only the German, Spanish and Greek governments seem to have contributed.While the Germans concentrated on playing word games with the neo-Nazi fringe, the Spanish (in unusually monarchist mood) banned juan-carlos-borbon-espana, reina-sofia-espana and infanta-cristina-espana plus as many permutations of those as they could think of.The Greeks seem to have misread the regulations and had the EU ban the use of long lists of Greek towns, place names and surnames that would more logically belong on the reserved list.If anybody wanted them, however, 1000-jaehriges-reich.com, net, org, info, name and biz and were all still available last week; you could buy a pack of four for &pound;100 or less from many British registries."The commission gave the member states the opportunity to [ban lists]. They have not supplied an explanation," said Patrik Lind&eacute;n, spokesman for EURid, who concedes it is a pointless exercise. "If someone wants to put something on the web they will do that anyway," he said.He also agrees it would have been natural to put many of the names on to the reserved list rather than the banned list.He added: "The trouble is that if you wanted to have something about Nazis in Deutschland there are always going to be other possibilities. You could buy the .com or try with or without the hyphen."The Germans were well ahead in registering .eu domains. Of the 346,218 pre-registration applications, 28% came from Germany, ahead of the Netherlands 16.6%, France 11.1% and the UK 9.4%.The reason for the heavy covering of German towels on this virtual beach is probably that Germany already has nearly 10m .de suffixes."There are a lot of people who are aware of domain names, know about it and realise the potential," says Lind&eacute;n.Ed Philips, solicitor for Nominet, the not-for-profit company that administers all registrations of the .uk suffix, said: "We have an extremely liberal registration policy. Our experience has been it is not at all problematic and if you want to have a website with some wacky name then on the whole, good luck to you," he said.Nominet estimates that there is a dispute of some sort over one in every 1,600 domains registered. Technically, every name must be unique; but the same word can belong to a different domain - so London.ac.uk is different from London.co.uk."We have always resisted having blocked or banned names because every special interest group, every trademark holder wants you to block their name. It becomes impossible," explains Philips.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
As the last of the winter's fuel bills drops on to your doormat, there seems little prospect of lower prices. But there might soon be an answer that will save you money without your having to turn down the thermostat. Nanotechnology could give your central heating system an energy-efficiency boost.This is a big idea that depends on the very small. The ideas man is Professor Richard Williams of Leeds University and his inspiration is the carbon nanotube - more than 50,000 times thinner than a human hair. Add these nanoparticles to a fluid, even water, and they'll disperse to form a nanofluid. And it is the strange behaviour of such fluids that Williams hopes to harness commercially."Mixing tiny particles and fluids and trying to make them stable has been around for a while," says Williams, who has worked in this field for more than 20 years. More recently, scientists have begun to explore the thermal properties of these mixtures.A carbon nanotube is a hollow cylindrical arrangement of carbon atoms that demonstrates remarkable properties of strength, flexibility and electrical conductivity. This miracle material is also expensive: a kilogram of multi-walled nanotubes (tubes within tubes) might cost &pound;20,000 while the purer single-walled tubes may cost five times that. "They look like a very fine black powder. Often, the particles are in clumps because of the electrostatic charge," says Williams.Rapid heat transferBy using this soot-like material, Williams and his colleague, Dr Yulong Ding, have created nanofluids with rates of forced convective heat transfer - the sort you get when you pump a hot fluid to warm a system - four times better than the norm. (Once the fluid being pumped has forcedly warmed your radiator, the heat rises off it passively - that is, by natural convection.)While that efficiency won't be matched within your boiler's circulating fluid, Williams reckons a 10% gain makes commercial sense.Nanoparticles behave very differently from bulk materials, rewriting the text books with expressions like quantum effects and nano-enablement."In thermal nanofluids, even the mechanisms by which heat is transferred may be different for small particles," says Williams. "It has been surprising that thermal nanofluids have such good thermal properties."Nanoparticles are already here - in tough shin pads, water-repellent clothing and self-cleaning windows. But putting them in your central heating system is a trickier proposition. How, for example, would you ensure the carbon nanotubes - all you need is a few percent by volume - remain evenly dispersed and don't clog your radiators with a black goo? "We're focusing on getting the formulation right," says Williams, who claims the project is three to five years away from home use.So what does Dr Doug Parr, the chief scientist at Greenpeace UK, think of carbon nanotubes? After all, fine particulates are already a known health risk. "In terms of established evidence that they are hazardous, the jury must be out," says Parr. "If you think something's going to be hazardous, introducing it to domestic premises has to be a bad idea. There should be no releases to the environment until there is evidence of safety."Such evidence is not being gathered quickly enough for Professor George Smith of Oxford University. As a materials engineer, he has significant worries. Nanotubes' elongated shape may bypass the body's defences, while research has revealed toxicity problems with water fleas, fish and rodents. But carbon nanotubes are found naturally in the environment from combustion sources - even in 10,000 year-old ice cores.Biological concerns"Not enough is known about the possible biological hazards associated with the use of nanomaterials in general, and not enough resources are being devoted to the precautionary research needed to find out what the risks are," says Professor Smith.Harry Swan, carbon nanomaterials business manager at the chemicals company Thomas Swan &amp; Co Ltd, and the great-grandson of the founder, appreciates the safety concerns. "I'm trying to be as open as possible about our nanotube project as it helps for everyone to understand what we are hoping to develop."The company makes carbon nanotubes by passing methane gas over an iron-and- magnesium-based catalyst in a furnace. Carbon nanotubes grow on the catalyst by chemical vapour deposition, then are washed off to leave a black paste. Swan is working with government departments and other agencies to develop risk assessments and a regulatory regime.But what happens in 20 years' time if, despite everyone's caution, manufactured carbon nanotubes become the new asbestos? Fortunately, this doesn't seem likely because of the more sensitive measurement techniques, a growing knowledge of particulate risks and the intense global scrutiny of nanotechnology. In an age of high fuel prices, the carbon nanotube might soon be a useful palliative for those painful winter bills.Right here, right nowMore than 200 commercially available products already incorporate nanotechnology. This may be in the form of nanofibres or particles, as well as ultra-thin coatings that enhance the beneficial effects found at the nanoscale. Like all new technologies, many nano-enabled products will command a premium price. Here are some examples of how nanotechnology has been used in certain products:&middot; stain-repellent clothing: nanofibres keep water from soaking into fabric&middot; stronger, stiffer tennis racquets and golf clubs: hit the ball harder and more accurately because they flex less&middot; bouncier tennis balls: less heat lost in flexing means more energy is restored to the bounce&middot; anti-microbial wound dressings: nanofibres and particles with medically active coatings get to all parts of wound.&middot; better sunscreen: nanoparticles provide a more even skin coverage&middot; tougher paint: dried matrix is more resistant to impact&middot; skin care cream: nanoparticles carry moisture deeper into pores&middot; car wax: like skin cream and sunscreen, it offers more complete coverage&middot; self-cleaning windows: dirt slides down nanoscale coating on the outside of windowsMichael Pollitt&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Is there anything more frightening and at the same time more pathetic than someone in an impotent techno-rage?You know, that mad, steaming, mind-numbing fury because something that previously worked perfectly has suddenly stopped. Mixed with impotence because, despite all the voices screaming in your ears to hurl the computer through the window, you know you won't because you're dependent on this mysterious jumble of components. Impotent, too, because you know, deep down, it's your fault.It is this inescapable self-blame that software companies feed off when they distribute "betas" of their products. Beta. An oddly reassuring name. Alpha suggests danger - alpha males - and also newness, possibly unreadiness. You're not going to muck around with that alpha software. But beta? Beta is your friend. You can trust a beta.Until, that is, you get blase about unfinished software and grab whatever you think might be interesting. When was the last time you even bothered to read the T&amp;Cs you loyally agree to have studied in depth? What does it matter anyway? It's not as if you're going to stop mid-install because you're unhappy with a sub-clause. Until, that is, you are reminded of the last time you foolishly trusted some unknown programmer with unfettered access to your machine's inner workings. What I didn't expect was the next time this lesson turned up to slap me on the back of the head it would come with a big, shiny Microsoft-approved face.I installed Microsoft's Internet Explorer 7 beta. I don't know why. Perhaps it was just curiosity. Perhaps I was bored with Firefox users' smugness (it is just a browser, my friend). But considering I was running Windows XP complete with all the updates, and have been spoilt by Google's usurpation of the word "beta" to mean "new and fun", I didn't have the slightest expectation there would be a problem. And there wasn't either - until the browser tried to do that thing browsers do and connect to the internet. Yes, it was a huge file. Yes, I had to restart the machine. Yes, it took an age, but this is Microsoft software - let's go! Nope. Nothing.Somewhere along the line Microsoft had dilly-dallied with the basic Windows communication settings and now it just wasn't working. Everything else could access the net connection, just not Explorer. Or anything else on my entire computer that uses the Explorer engine.And no, I don't want any advice about fixing it. And that includes System Restore. I turned that off years ago. This is just a reminder to self. No more betas. Unless there's a beta to fix the IE7 beta... I think I'll have a look.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Ray Ozzie, Microsoft's chief technology officer, introduced the idea of a Live Clipboard during his speech at this year's O'Reilly Emerging Technology (ETech) conference in San Diego (below). Now there is one athttp://cl1p.net/All you have to do is create any URL that starts with http://cl1p.net/, such as http://cl1p.net/random, and you can paste in or upload content. Go to the same URL with a different machine and you can collect it. No messing with email or messaging or FTP or whatever -- it's dead simple.You can also cl1p something for a friend to collect: just tell them the URL and password, if any.Note: "File uploads are limited to two megabytes. Files are limited to one download and are then removed."
Imagine someone creeping into your living room and tweaking your DVD player so that it no longer played any discs. Or what about a DVD disc that didn't like the look of your television, and so only displayed low-quality video pictures? Such scenarios are theoretically possible with a new digital rights management (DRM) system being rolled out by the video industry, PC companies and consumer electronics firms.What is more, under the new system, no one need enter your home to disable your video player. Little wonder, then, that Mike Evangelist, a former director of product marketing for Apple Computer, describes the new system as sinister and has set up the HD Boycott website (www.hdboycott.com), urging people not to buy high definition (HD) discs and players. But those behind the technology say we should welcome the new flexibility it will bring to using digital video content.This year sees the launch of a new generation of home video systems, HD-DVD and Blu-ray Disc, which offer high definition video and are seen as the successors to DVDs. DVD was launched with anti-piracy technology that was easily cracked. According to the Motion Picture Association of America, video piracy now costs the industry about $3.5bn annually, mostly through pirated discs. In 2004, the MPAA seized more than 76m worldwide, an increase of 44% on 2003.The film and video industries are determined not to let the same thing happen with HD-DVD and Blu-ray, so they have backed a powerful and sophisticated DRM technology called AACS (Advanced Access Content System), co-developed by Sony, Toshiba, Intel, IBM, Panasonic, Microsoft, Warner Brothers and Disney. The group has formed the AACS LA (Licensing Administrator) to issue AACS licences (www.aacsla.comBut in their efforts to combat piracy, some believe the entertainment industry will have too much control over how consumers can use both software and hardware.Disabled playersAACS uses industrial-strength encryption technology and an elaborate key-based system for authenticating hardware and software. These keys can be modified at any time, so that if unlicensed players or drives come on to the market, updated keys can be added to new video releases. The new keys could restrict playback to older title releases or even disable a Blu-ray or HD-DVD player by modifying its firmware. But Michael Ayers, a spokesman for AACS LA, says such steps would not be taken lightly: "It couldn't be done unilaterally by one party."But as Seth Schoen, staff technologist of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (www.eff.org), points out, this system won't help reduce piracy: "The key management system is aimed at preventing people from making unauthorised players, not from making unauthorised copies, and it probably won't prevent file sharing either."Schoen believes technologies like AACS will stifle innovation and competition: "It's easier to see why major electronics companies and Microsoft are keen on AACS: because it will help them curtail competition among players and stop anyone from introducing unforeseen disruptive innovations in the home entertainment market. The VCR, TiVo, and Slingbox have all come from nowhere and shaken things up; major manufacturers and entertainment companies would like to see that this doesn't happen again."AACS also has the ability to degrade the high definition video signal sent to a TV or monitor if the user has an unprotected digital or analogue connection between a player and display device. But Ayres says most studios have indicated they won't use this facility and if they do, it will have to be highlighted on software packaging.But such assurances have not placated everyone. "The most objectionable aspect of AACS is that it allows the seller to retain control of the use of the disc forever," says Evangelist."They can determine what devices will play it, how and where it can be copied and used, and even change the quality of the output depending on whether or not the devices are 'approved'. The providers can change the rules whenever they like. You will no longer have any certainty about what you can do with your own property, now or in the future."Schoen adds: "It's conceptually creepy that someone can take away functionality from a product after you bought it. That said, this particular problem is now pervasive in high technology, not just in DRM. A mobile-phone carrier can take away functionality from a phone after you bought it. If you use a non-open source operating system, your operating system developer can take away functionality from your computer afterwards. So this is a broad trend and I would not single out AACS revocation for unique criticism."But he adds: "I would like customers to worry about the big picture of the ability of manufacturers to take away functionality you've paid for, and, conversely, to stop you from tinkering or getting add-ons to improve the functionality of your products. This is an issue for our time that goes well beyond AACS."There are also plans to plug what is known as the "analogue hole", which means pirates could run a high-quality analogue signal, digitise it and then use it for making pirated discs or file sharing. Under the AACS licensing agreement, manufacturers will begin removing analogue connections from their hardware from the end of 2010 - known as the analogue sunset."We believe the digital connection will give consumers a better experience in terms of quality and convenience - a single digital cable can carry both audio and video. And yes, it will improve security. We think the 2010 deadline is far enough ahead to be comfortable with," says Ayers.However, Schoen thinks this is yet another doomed attempt at stifling piracy: "I think the analogue sunset spells trouble for paying customers who might want to do something that the AACS people didn't anticipate. But because it's a long way off, I don't anticipate that it can stop or really dent unauthorised file sharing."AACS supporters point out that under a provision called Mandatory Managed Copy (MMC), content holders will be compelled to provide options for consumers to, say, copy a disc on to a home server or download content to a portable multi-media player. "I think we'll see content holders allowing consumers to view their titles in a variety of ways now they have a robust copy management system in place," says Lavinia Carey, director-general of the British Video Association.Legal copying"MMC will result in consumers being able to copy discs. What we don't have in place are the business models. For example, there might be a charge for copying a disc, or a content holder could decide you can only copy the film and not the extras on to your portable player," says Richard Doherty, another AACS LA spokesman. "For the first time, consumers will be able to rip video discs legally and not have to resort to using unauthorised and often illegal tools," adds Ayers.But Schoen is unimpressed: "Entertainment companies should not have the power to use the law to prevent technology innovators from providing flexibility to paying customers without begging permission. AACS is touted as increasing flexibility for consumers - which it does grudgingly, in a predetermined, short list of ways. This after eight years in which DVD innovations were deliberately crushed through litigations."What passes for 'flexibility' in DRM systems like AACS is always years behind the technical state of the art because of the costs and delays of negotiating licences and because of the conservatism of entertainment companies. If consumers have devices that are functional but not licensed through deals with AACS LA, managed copy is intentionally designed not to work with those devices."That includes most devices built before the advent of AACS, all home-brew and hobbyist devices, and devices made by innovators who can't afford the lawyers to negotiate the licences."Where will it play, Sam?One issue that's far from settled is whether Blu-ray Disc and HD-DVD will use a regional coding system, as found on most games consoles and DVD.Regional coding is used to control the territory in which software is used. For example, DVDs developed for the US market (known as Region 1) are designed not to be played on European DVD players (Region 2).If you try playing a Region 1 disc in a Region 2 player, playback is forbidden. But it's relatively simple to bypass regional coding, and most players have cracks or hacks. There are also specialist retailers who will modify a DVD player or recorder so that it reads discs from other regions. This opens up thousands of titles, many of which are never released in Europe.Although the first HD-DVD and Blu-ray Disc players won't use regional coding, that door is still open and some believe the Hollywood studios will demand its inclusion. Regional codes have been assigned to Blu-ray Disc."I think studios will want to protect the various licensing agreements they have in different territories," says the British Video Association's Lavinia Carey. Rumours suggest that regional coding could be tied to AACS, which would make hacking it not only difficult, but illegal. That's because laws like the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the EU's Copyright Directive make it an offence to bypass copy protection systems.But Richard Doherty of the Licensing Authority says: "There are no plans for this and there's nothing in AACS's technical specifications that would work with regional coding."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
As you may have noticed, you now have tosign in hereto comment on any of the Guardian's blogs, including this one. There have not been any problems with comments to Ask Jack, but this is a global decision, asexplained by my colleague Neil McIntoshon the News blog.If you haven't registered already, you can registerhere.Everyone is expected to comply with ourterms and conditionsand ourtalk policy.If it's any consolation, I have to log in to reply to comments, and if you're annoyed about GU forgetting you are logged in , that happens to me too....
You may have noticed that you're now asked to register with Guardian Unlimited before you can leave a comment on Technology Blog. It's a system which has been tested on our new cousin,Comment is Free, and now rolled out across Guardian Unlimited'sother blogs- including our closely-relatedGames blog.You can registerhere.The idea is that everyone will have a permanent identity across the site, which should make the standard of debate as high as possible (we often have raucous arguments here, but you wouldn't believe how vicious some of the debates can get elsewhere).All commenters are expected to comply with ourterms and conditionsand ourtalk policy.Neil McIntosh, formerly of this parish and now Guardian Unlimited's assistant editor, has explained a little more over onNews blog.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Two snippets from the burgeoning world of Revolution development. First up, Ubisoft hasconfirmedthat it's working onRed Steel(click to go to the official site), a launch title for the console. Currently in development at the company's Paris office, it's a Yakuza mob adventure set in modern Japan, and featuring full support for the offbeat Revolution remote control - both to target and shoot your gun and wield a sword.Controversialscreenshots of the game were printed in US videogame magazine, Game Informer, this month. More speculation/informationhere.Elsewhere, a Polish developer namedNibrishas just announced that it is developing a Revolution game entitled Sadness, which will feature only black and white graphics. The really quite incomprehensible press release explains, "Nibris are not following the trend created though Sin City, but rather a game which is set pre-World War". A fully monochrome adventure? We haven't seen anything like this since3D Monster Maze!
Buy a Dell or similar PC and you don't just get the copy of Windows you paid for: you also get (in the UK) an anti-virus suite, an imaging product, about three attempts to sign you up to an ISP, and goodness knows what else. Dell gets paid to add these offerings, which reduces the amount you pay for a Dell PC, but you are lumbered with the job of removing them.Jason York got more annoyed about this than most and he's written aDell De-Crapifierscript to remove unwanted trialware. (You also needAutoIT, which is free, to run it.) He's written it in a modular way so that other people can add to it, and adapt it for other brands of PC. He says:Any non-standard program should be uninstalled. Exceptions are made for the Dell utilities that are needed to maintain the PC and drivers and such. For the annoying Dell Support tool, I did not uninstall it, but I prevented it from running on start up. In general, anything that's part of the operating system that's optional should be left alone. Anything that's freely downloadable should be removed. I don't want to get into any debate as to whether the Google Search bar is useful/annoying or not. The fact is, it's not part of a standard build, and you can easily download it, so it should be removed.Note: I have not tried it. It's written for an American notebook, not for UK machines. If you use it, it is entirely at your own risk.Comment: What do you think about pre-installed trialware? How much extra would you be prepared to pay for a PC that didn't have any?
We realise that the supercool digerati hipsters who frequent Technology Blog will have probably heard ofThreadless- a T-shirt website where surfers submit their designs and the most popular ones turn into real products.But now Britain has its own version,Split the Atom. The store sells a variety of tees - but there's a £250 prize for anyone who submits a winning design.Cunning tees have become something of a staple for the geek community, but I've often been restricted to ordering from the US for a fix. The STA gang, however, are based in Yorkshire, so if you go with them then you know you're getting good home-grown stuff.
Nominees for the net's biggest awards, theWebbys, have been announced.It's their 10th year, and from my brief scan of the list - there are about a million categories - it seems one of the big names this year isFlickr, which garnered four nominations. Other popular nominees includeGoogle MapsandWritely.Guardian Unlimited, meanwhile, scooped two nominations - newspaper (the category which we won last year) and news (which pits GU against theBBC,NPR,Yahoo's Hotzoneandthe Onion.Take a lookat the list and tell us your favourites; or the sites that didn't get nominated, but should have.
Chris McEvoy wondered about "Google's so called simplicity" and "decided to design a new Google homepage that inlcuded links to all of the different searches, sites and blogs".On his blog, he writes:I call itSimply Googleand it can be found atgoo-home.com.I think that it is a lot simpler than the corresponding google offering. What do you think?Comment: Well, I think that if all Google's many services had anything like equal value, it would be very useful. But as a matter of fact, Google has only one really good service -- the Web search it shows on its home page -- and two that get used briefly and not very often -- Images and Groups. Both of these are also readily available from the home page. The rest of it is either of no interest (except to search engine buffs) or else its users already know where to find it (Google Finance, Maps), so there is no value in having them all on the same page. It's an interesting exercise, but I won't be switching my home page.What do you think?
I had one of those archetypal roadside experiences a couple of weeks ago. I was on a favourite weekend ride, down to Box Hill in Surrey. (There's a great Richard Thompson song about riding to Box Hill, by the way, 1952 Vincent Black Lightning - only it's about being on a motorbike, sadly.) It had rained the night before, and flints must have been washed on to the road, because I got a puncture.Never mind, I had my mini-pump. But I hardly ever use it, so I'd forgotten how rubbish it was. Ten minutes of cramp-inducing pumping later, I had just enough air in the tyre to get home. This is too silly, I thought: I need one that works. So, armed with this more-than-adequate excuse, I went shopping.The pump I have now, let me tell you, is about the size of a Cuban cigar (and cost as much, too). But it works brilliantly. And, best of all, it's lustrous black and made of carbon fibre.There is now nothing on a bike or for a bike that cannot be bought in carbon fibre. Where once cyclists were seduced by chromed steel, aluminium (brushed or anodised), and the muted silver of titanium, now we want carbon-fibre everything - from the soles of our cycling shoes to the ends of our handlebars. And we'll pay a premium to get it. No wonder carbon is known in the trade as "black gold".Admittedly, it's still all high-end stuff, but the prices of carbon-fibre frames have been coming down. You can buy a well-specced carbon road bike for under &pound;1,000 now. Last year, one cycling magazine (probably thinking mainly of its male readers) asked: "What's a bigger turn-on, a carbon-fibre bicycle or silk lingerie?"The original carbon fibre was patented by Thomas Edison in 1879 as a filament for electric lights, but industrial production of "composites" - woven fibres set in resin - was only perfected in the 60s, and has since been refined to reduce its environmental impact. The resulting material has spectacular properties: almost three times the tensile strength of toughened steel but at about a fifth of the weight. One Chinese manufacturer that makes bike frames for Giant used to use the stuff to build missiles. Carbon fibre, you might say, really is rocket science.Which is largely why there is currently a "carbon-fibre famine". Between them, the Pentagon, Boeing and Airbus are vacuuming up all the world's available supply. Ironically, the other major industrial use is in the manufacture of prop blades for wind farms. Swords and ploughshares, indeed.It does bother me that we're just bringing more plastic into the world. But if it's tougher than steel, that shouldn't matter because it will last. Who knows? Perhaps, in 100 years, carbon-fibre bikes will be as collectible as Bakelite ashtrays are today.Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear Matt,Living in Glasgow, I have long suffered rain-drenched toes after a daily commute, no matter what shoes I wear. Are there any kinds of shoe covers that don't look ridiculous, and where can I get them?Roy Mohan Shearer,via emailThe short answer, Roy, is no. They all look ridiculous. But if it's a choice between wearing soggy, steaming socks all day and losing your dignity ... well, let's just say I lost mine a long time ago.It helps to keep your feet dry if you have mudguards fitted, with a flap on the bottom of the front guard. Most of the water that goes in your shoes is spray flicked up by the front wheel that hits the frame and goes sideways.But for serious downpours, you need a proper overshoe. In Holland, everyone has galoshes; in Britain, the last recorded reference to these was in Beatrix Potter's Jeremy Fisher (1905). However, there are at least a couple of overshoes designed to go over ordinary shoes (as opposed to cycling shoes): a pricey one by Gore-Tex, the Gore City, and a budget one by Agu, the Bike Boot. Stay dry.
ModelSeat Leon 2.0 TDIPrice&pound;16,495Top speed125mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.3 secsConsumption50.4mpg (combined)Emissions154g/km (road tax band D)At the wheelJustin RoseThey'd rather walkTiger WoodsOn the stereoRadio 5 LiveEn route forBarcelonaSeat is not the world's most popular brand, but it is trying. Its recent products have been supported by splashy advertising campaigns, pressing home the slogan "auto emocion", which, it would appear, is to be said where possible in a smoky, post-coital whisper. By this means the company hopes to persuade us that it is an A-grade manufacturer of pulse-quickening automobiles, rather than a low-maintenance corporate outcrop of the VW group and a budget car builder from Spain - Spain being about as famous for car production as Italy is for golfing holidays.It's a project that you wish it well with, because Seat is one of those perpetually bubbling-under acts that you wouldn't begrudge a whopping chart smash if it ever came its way. Seat's animated and fetching five-door hatchback, the Leon - now back in a second-generation version - is a number certainly worth a place on the nation's playlist. I'm not sure why anyone would buy, for instance, a VW Golf when they could have a Seat Leon and spend the change on a new bathroom.Though recognisably a member of the extended Golf family, the Leon now royally trumps the Golf for style - mostly as a result of having thought very hard about what it is that makes Alfa Romeos so attractive. Call it bare-faced theft or, if you prefer, mature artistry, but at the first sight of the new Leon, a cry would have justifiably gone up in the Alfa design department: "Oi, that's my radiator grille."Note, also, the cunningly camouflaged rear-door handles, as premiered in the Alfa 147 and since cheekily championed by Mazda. The idea is to conceal the handles in the door frames where only people who know about these things can find them. Unfortunately, Seat has ended up using a giveaway bubble of Perspex as a finger-hold for the door catch, so that the disguise is not as complete as one has seen elsewhere. It still beats the old-fashioned handle, though, and sustains the illusion that the Leon is a lithe and slippery young person's three-door model, rather than a lumpier, "practical" five-door.The Leon shuns lumpiness altogether, in fact. It cleverly bridges the gap between thought-through practicality and looking like something that might be fun to drive. Its front end is cuter than a spaniel's nose. Not even the windscreen-wipers interrupt the smoothness of the lines arching back through the low-pitched, coupe-style windscreen. The wipers are set vertically against the windscreen's outside edges and buried in recesses from which they pop out only when in use - which, quite apart from anything else, represents a major new front in the war against freelance flyer distributors.At the back, the light clusters continue into the hatch on both sides, as if helping to clip the boot shut. Seat is proud to announce, incidentally, that the capacity of the boot has been expanded from 340 to 341 litres. You can snigger, but that extra litre could make all the difference on a booze cruise to France. More tangibly, access to the back has been improved, which means it is now possible to lift bags into the back of the Leon without falling in after them - a danger in the days of the car's old, higher lip.The car is stable enough to take corners at a lick and thoughtfully provides a pair of fathom-deep cup-holders, so that you won't slop your latte on the way round. In turbo-driven, two-litre diesel form, the Leon was not just competent and uncomplaining, but mustered enough inner-city poke and sporty whip to satisfy the most demanding of uninsured carjackers.Hence, presumably, "auto emocion". That said, nothing can make the prospective car buyer's soul vibrate in sympathy quite like a competitive price tag, and here the Leon truly causes the heart to swell. You can push the price half as high again, by choosing the bigger engines and the silkier features, but it should be noted that the cost of the most basic Leon is an absolutely chortlesome &pound;11,295. And bear in mind that it's full of VW parts. This means that it is unlikely to come unscrewed 300 yards along the first bumpy road you take it down, and almost certainly won't split in half when the weather gets cold. You can choose an engine safe in the knowledge that it shares key characteristics with units that have been humming about in VWs for the last couple of years without people protesting en masse to consumer associations. For these reasons alone, relative to other fingers-crossed, eyes-closed car-purchasing experiences, buying a new Seat ought to be richly reassuring, easing one past unnecessary anxieties about the obscurity of the badge.
